TANUARY TERM :1829.'

53

JA=S' FOSTER AND P.LEAsA:NTS -ELAx1 ,'PLAnifPIPFS IN ERROR V.
-

DAVID N

I

N, DIFENDAXT IN ERROR.

By the treaty of St'Ildefonsa, made bn the Ist of October 1800, Spain ceded
Louisiana to France; and'France,-by the treaty of Paris, signed the 30th of
April 1803, c*led it to the United States. Under this tteaty the United States'.
claimed the country between:the fiherville ana' the Perdido. 'Spain conteu'ded
that her cession to France comprehended only ihat territory which at.the.tim;e
of' the cession was denominated Louisiana, consisting of the 'islAnd of New
Orleans, and -the country which had been originally ceded to her by France,
west of the Mississippi
The land claimed by the plaintiffs in error, under a grant from the crown of.Spain,
made after the treaty of St Ildefonso, lies within the disputed territory ;and
this case presents the qfiestion, to whom did the country between the. Ibervilla and Perdido belong after the treaty of St Ildefonso ?
'Had France and Spain agreed upon the boundiies of .the -retroceded terntoiy,
before Louisiana Wvas acquired'by the United States; that agreement would
undoubtedly bave'ascert.ned its limits. But the declarations of France, mad;
after parting witti
the province, cannot be admitted as aonclusive. In ques-tions.f thi.s character, political considerations have'too much' influence over
'the conduct of nations, to' permit their-deilara'tiois ' 'o decide the course of
an independent government, in a matter vitally. interesting to itielf. [30.63 In a controversy betweej two nations concerning national boundary, it is scarceS]y.pssibl6 that th6 c6urts of either should refuse to abide by the'mea~ures
'adopted by its own government. There being no common tribunal to decide
between them, each determines'for itself on.its own rights; atd if they cannot
adjust'their differences peaceably, the right remains with the strongest. The
judiciary is not.that department of the governmeit, to which the assertioz
of its interests against foreign powers is confid'd; 'arid its'duty cominIonly is
to decide- upon individual rights, according td those principles which the political departments of'the nation ha~e established. If the course'of the natiom
has'beeh a plain one, its.courts would hesitate to pronounce it erroneous. [307]
However individual judges might construe the treaty of St lidefonso,'it is'the
jrovince of the Court to conform its decisions to the will of the legislature, it
that-will has. been clearly expressed. [307]
After the a-tsof sovereigor.power over the territory in dispute, which have been
exercised by the legislature and government of the United States, asserting the
American construction of'tie treaty by which 'the. government claims it; to
maitain thQ opposite-'6onstruction in its own courts would certainly be.an
anomaly in the history and practice of nations. 'Ifthose departments which art
'entrusted with, the foreign intercourse of the nation, which .assert'and maintain
-its interests against foreign.5owers, have unequivocally asserted its 'rights of
dominion'ovei.a country of which itis in possession, and which it claimsundee
a treaty; if the legislature has ;cted on the construction thils asserted; it is not
in its own courts that this construction is 'to bi denied. [309]
If a Spanish grantee had obtained possession of the land in dispute so as to be the
defendant; would a court of the United States maintain his title under a'Spa-

254

SUPREME- COURT.-

[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]
nish grant, made'subspqueot to the cquisition of Louisiana, iingly on the
pyinciple that the Spanish constructiQn of the treaty of StIldefonso was right,
Such a decision would subvert ! ose
- and the American construction wrong?
principles which *govern-the ielations botween the legislature and judicial de.
partments, and mark the limits of each, 1309],
The sound constmritiofi of the 4th a~ticle ot the treaty between the United States
and Spain, of 2d February 1829, will not enable the Court to apply its provisions to the case7of-the plaintff. [314]
The artiele does not declare that all-the grants made by hiacatholic majesty before thb 24th of January 181,8, shall be valid to the'same extent as-if the-ceded
territories had remained-under his dominion. It does.not say that those grants
are hereby confirmed. Had such been its language, it would have acted di,
.iedtly'on the subject, and would haverepealed those acts of cdngress which
were 'repugnant to it; -but its lafiggage is thatthose grants shall be ra'tified
and confirmed to the persons in possession, &c.- By whom shall they be rati.fieeI and confirmed i This seems to be the language of contract; and if it Is, e
ratification and confirmation vhich iare promised must be the act of the legisL
lature. Uitil such'act shall be passed,.the Court is not at liberty to disregard
the existing laws on the subject.. [314]
A-treaty is in its nature a contract between two nations, not a'legislative act.. If'
doe iot -generally effect of itself the object to'be accomplished, especially so
,far as-Its operation is infra-territorial, but.is darried into execution'by the .overeign power of the respectiveparties'to the instrument. [314]
In the United States a different princilile is dstablisbed. Our constitution de.
clareia treaty to be the law of the'land. It is'consequently to be regarded in
courts ofjustice as equivalent to an act of the legislature, whenever it operates
But when the'terms of
- of. itself without the aid of- any legislative provision.
the stipulation importa contract, when either of the parties engage to performa
particular'act, the treaty addresses itself to the political, not the judicial departmbent ;, and the legislatture must execute the contract beford it cart become
a rule for the Court. [314]

IN eiror ti.te district coturt of the ea'stern district of
Louisiana.
'The plaintiffs in error filed their petition in 'the district
court setting forth, that on the 2d of January' 1804, Jayfhe
Joydra purchased of the Spanish government for a'valuable,
consideration, and was put in possession of a 'certaifi tract
or parcel of land, situated in the district of Feliciana,.thirty
miles to the east of the Mississippi, within the province of
West Florida, containing forty thousand arpents, havin~g the
marks and boundaries as' laid down in the origiqal plat of
survey annexed to the deed of iale, made by Juan Ventura
Morales then intendent of. the Spanish government, dated
January 2d, 1804, which sale was ddly confirmed by the

JANUARY TERM 1829.

255

[Fost& & Elam vs. Neilsoni

king of Spdin, by his -resolves daied May 29,-1804, and
February 20oth, 1805.
May -17, 1805, Jayme Joydra sold and conveyed six thou:
sa 4 arpents,'part of the said forty thousand,'to one Joseph
Maria'de:la Barba; and upon the same day, Joseph -Maria de
la Barba sold and coneyed thtlee'thousahd hrpents, parcel
of the six thousand so purchased .on the- samd-day of Jayme
1Joydra; to-one Francoise Poinet, for the co nsiderati6n of $750.
T:-ese-three thousand arpents ; situated in the district of Fe!iciana, about thirty miles east'of. the Missi ippi ; bounded
on.-the -north by the -line of demarcation betweer. the -United'
Stites
the, Spanish ierritory; on the: west by lands'of
Manuel de Lanzos; on the east by the lands of the-saiaJ-.yme
Joydra; and on the. soith -by the lands of 'the said Joseph
Maria de ]a Baiba.
In June 1.8.11, Francoise Poinet, by'her attqrney,. Louis
Leonard Poinet, sold to the petitioners, the sald three thOU-•
sand arpenis, -for the sum of $3200.
The -petition then avers, that the -three thodsand: arpents
of lands justly and legally'belong.to them;-and - that never-.-_
theless, David Neilson ihe defendant, a-resident of the parish
of east Feliciana in the state'of Louisiana, had-taken possession of the same, and refuses to deliver-the same up. On the 23d of March 1826, the defendant in'the district
"court fifed exceptions to the petition-; and the questions
before this Court arose out of the 'third exception, which was
as follows:
That the petition d6es not show any right in the peti-.
tioners to -the land demanded, which they aver lies in-a district formerly called .Feliciana, -inthe province -of West
Florida; and they claim under a grant made at New Orleans
on.-the 2d 6f January']804,, and regularly confirmed by the'
Span'ish.governmeht-: whereas, as defendant. pleads, all thdt.section of territory called Feliciaha wag,- long'before the
alleged date of said grant, ceded by Spain to Frande, and by
•France to the United States ;.and the officer'making said
grant had ,not then .and-there. any right so, to do, and the
said grant is.wholly null and void.
"
The judgment of the district court is founded on this ex-nd

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elain ids. Neilson.]

ception; and decides that the grant-under Whih 'the plaintiffs claim, was made by persons having no authority, at the
tim' of the :grant, to grant lands within.th'e territory Within
which the lands are situated ; and dismisses the petition.
On behalf of the petitioners; the plaintiffs below, it was
conqtended -"
SI, ThatSpain possesed full right and title, at the period'
of the date of the grant under which .they claim, to grant
thb'lands in question..
* 2. That the title of the petitioners is guarantied and confiimed by the treaty between the l'nited States and Spain
,of February 22d, .1819.
The case was' argued. by Mr Coxe '-and Mr Webster for
the plaintiffV in error; and by Mr: Jones for -the,defendant.
Mr Coxe, for plaintiffs in error.
This'is.a 'petitory.action, ii the- nature. of in ejectment,
brought l y the plaintiffs in error, to recover a tract of lan&
in. the parish of east Feliciana -in the state of Louisiana.
The territory within which this.property.lies, Ahay .be desigiiated in general terms as' included between the Mississippi
ahd Iberville to the.west; the- Perdido to the east; and south
of the thirty-first d~gree of horth' latitude.
•.No objection 'has been interposed to the regularity, in.
point of form,.of thd original grant under.which plaintiffs
claimed title, or of the me sne conveyances from the:original
grantee tothem. No title has been exhibited by the-defendant ;
but having acquired the possession, he has rested his defence
•on-the single ground ofdenyiflg the validity of the grant,
which lies. at the foundation of the.eplaintiffs'.title; 'and this
objec'tion is confined to the single point, that the authority.
of the Spanish government, from which that grant emanated,
had terminated within the diptrict of country, the botindaries
of 'which have been indicated, anterior to the .date of-the
grant
iThe'grant bears date in the years 1804 and 1865, and it
is contended that by the treaty of St Ildefonso betweeir
Spain and France in"the .year .800, and the treaty*between

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

France and the United States, of April 30, 1803, the territory
in question became vested in the -United States as a component part ".fLouisiana.
Whether. such be the"true "interpretation'-and effect of
these treaties, is the first. question presented for eonsidexation. , It is a question which has for years been diplomati-'
cally discussed'between the governments of-Spain and the
Uhited States; and now comes before this Court to be finally
settled judicially.
Much of the history 6f the early settlements of the ternitory in question, and the.grounds upon which the claims of
England, France and Spain rested, were,presented and digcussed in the Cases of Hendersonvs. Poindexter, 12 Wheat.
530,.and Harcoutt's lessee vs. Gillard.
It may however be proper to ;remindl the Court, that in
point of fact, it appears that the earliest actual settlement
made by the French in this district, was made under D'Iberville, at Dauphin island in the year 1699; and that at that
period, and'for some years. previous, the English had formed
settlements between'the Mobile -and the 'Mississippi, 4 .7W.
. n.Rev. '16,:2€.S. Anderson's History of Commerce, Vol.
III. 195,fixesitat 1-698.- Oh the 30th ofJun'e 1677, Charles II.
made his second grant "tothe earl of Clarendon-end others,
w'hich included this territory. 1 L. U. S. 466. Land- Laws,
81..
The grant from Louis XIV. to Crouzat, bears -date September 14th, 71m2,thirty-five Years subsequent to the Englih patent.; and it sets forth that-the original possession was
taken of the teiritoryin 1683, which is six years subsequent
to-the English grant. -It may be remarked, however, that'
the ppssession to which allusion is made, was nothing more
than a transient and rapid passage down the Misissippi, -and
vague as it was, in point of fact did not extend beyond the
banks of the river.
This giant to Crouzat seems to have been generally considered as comprehending this debatable ground,, but aplarently without much reason, It distinctly limits the eastern
extent by the lands of the English Carolina: and.not only
the grant of the Carolina, but the actual settlements under it
VOL. II.-H2

sss

SUPREME COURT.
tFoster & Elani vs. Neilson.]

extended much o the westvwrd of the line to which Fiance
subsequently claimed to extend the- eastern boundary of
Louisiana.'
The irreconcileabie claims of England and France, in reference to the.extent of their American possessidns, gave
rise to many and bloody controversies, and particularly to
the war of 1756. Numerous discussions took place between
the two crowns upon this subject, which it will be unneeessary to examine earlier than the war which terminated -in
their adjustment and settlement; To the negotiations which
preceded the treaty of 1763, which are stated in 3 Jenkineon,
1.174, it seems. that France prefeired her claizt as far as the
Perdido; and th answer of the British -government to this
claim' will be found" in its reply t the French ultimatum,
September 1st, -1762;,sOc. 2. .3 Jenkinson, 148, It'was
deemed utterly inadmissible, because it would comprise extensive cduntries and numerous'pationis of Indians, who have
always been reputed to be Under the protection of the king.
This Court, in TJl6inson vs. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 581, has
remarked, in'refiernce to the controversies between France
and.Spain in relation 'to this same, district of coun'try, that
"the contests between the cabinets of Versailles and Madrid
respecting the territory on the northern 'coast of the gulf of
Mexico were fierce and bloody, and continued until, the
stablishnient of a Bourbon on the throne of Spain, produced
such amicable dispositions in the two crowns, as to suspend
or terminate them." And after'giving a summary of those
which occurred bdtweeri France and .England, it is observed
that "these conflicting claims produced a 1.6ng and bloody
war, which ,terminated by the cofiquest of the whole country
east of the Mississippi."
Pending that war, in which. Spain had been inducedato
take part with France, the celebrated treaty was concluded
between these two powers, which is entitled to notice in the
present investigation. It was styled "Pacto de Familia,"
or, "Parte de Famille;" and is usually known in England
and the United States, under Che'appellation of the "Family

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elamvb. Neihon.]

Compact." It was signeddugust 15,1761 ; ratified byFrance
August21, 176" and 'by Spain, d ugust.25, 1761 (d).
The 4th article embraces the great. object of the treaty,
"qui att aque ine couronne, attaque .l'autre .;".and the tth,
carryipg. it out, into detail, provides that, "en conformit6 de
.ce principe et de l'engagem'ent contraet6 en 7consequence,
leur majest6s tres chretienne et catholique, sont convenues
que lorsqu'ils s'agira de terminer par fa paix la gu'erre .qu'ils
auront soutenue en comrnmun, elles compenseront les avan-tages que Pune des deux puissances pourroit avoir eus, aveo
-les pertes que l'autre, auroit pu'faire; de mani~re que sur les
conditions de la paix, ainsi que..sur les -operations de la
guerre; les deux (nonarchies de France etsde-l'Espagne, dans
toute.'6tendue de-leur. domination, seront regard6s et agiront
si elles ne formoient qu'une seule et mgme puissance." This
provision is -necessary, to enable us to comprehend with precision, the motives which. induced, "an4d the' construction
which is to be given to subsequent acts.
The preliminary articles of the treaty of: peace, between
GCrat Britain, France,. and Spain, were signed, November
3d, 1762. , On the same day, another treaty was executed
between France and Spain, originating in, and designed to
fulfil the stipulations of the 18th art.icle of the family, comn.
pact. R6c.h," in:his Trait6s. de Paix(b), furnishes the following statementof it. '.La N"ouvelle Orleans,'-avec la 'Iouisiane, 8itu~e a l'ouest du juvc .isisippi, frt -ed6e aux
Espagnols, pai une convention secrete entre -les deux cours
de.Versailles et de Madrid,. sign6e le 3 de Novembre 1762,
et qii n'a jamais et6 impr.imee.- Cette cession. avoit. pur
motif de dedommager :'Espagne de la Floride, qu'elle abandonnoit i l'Angleterre par la trait6 des preliminaires de Pdris,
sign . le mnrme. jQur.. Les. habitans Francois de la Louisiane n'eiirent .connoissance de cette cession que le 21
Avril 1764. Ils .addresserent a le sujet lia.
cour de France
les 'Plus vi .e§ reclamations, .qui'n'empecherefit pus les Es-"
3.

(a) ICoUeccion de 2T'atados, 115. ".Marien'sRecucil des Traitis, Torn. I. p
S&Jen. 7o.
t b) Tom. III: p. 109.

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs.Neilson.]

pagnols de prendre possession de cette colonie le 18 .Aout
1769."
This cessibn then grew out of the piovisions of the preliminary, treaty of the same, date, and was designed to compensate. Spain for -the logs of Florida. It must be construed
subordinately to that' general treaty, and cannot modify or
control its provisions.
Keeping these .bonsiderations in view, we may proceed to
examine the preliminary treaties of the same date, wh.ibh were
finally consummated by the definitive treat, of February 10,
1763(a). The, first fourteen articles relate to France and
Great Britain: the six succeeding to Great Britain, her ally.
Portugal, and Spain. The-6tl article establishes the boundaries between the. English and French' possessions, in. the
neighbourhood of the Mississippi, and so far- as is material
to this case, in the following words: "-Thte confines between
the dominions of Great Britain'and Spain, on the continent
of North America, shall -be irrevocably fixed by a line drawn
along the niddle of the riveit Mississippi, to its source, as far
as the the
river.Iberville
;- and from thence, by a line drawA
.along
middle of this
rivex, and of the lakes Maurepas and
Pontchartrain to the sea;, and to this purpose the most christian king cedes in 'full right, and guarahties to his Britannic.
majesty the river and port of M6bile,-and every thing which
.he-possesses- on the left side of the 'river Mississippi; exceptthe town of New Orleans, and the island on which it is situated, which-shall remain to France." By the 19th article,
"his. catholic majesty cedes and guaranties, in full right,
to his Britannic mijesty, all that Spain possesses on the east
or the south east of the river Mississippi.",
A reasonable interpretation of these two treaties seems to
conciude this question. Each party had been, nearly from'
the -commencement of the century, claiming an almost interminable extent of territory; their claims were bringing them
-into.constarit collision with each other; these collisions had
engendered the war which was about to be terminated. The
parties had agreed, tliat their relative fights should be defini(a) Colleccion de 2Tratados, 145. 2 .Marten,17. 3 Jenkins, 166.-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

"261

.. [Fgeter & Elam vs. Neilson.]

tivelv and irrevocably adjusted, and natural boundaries-were
agfbed upon, which it Was supposed would preclud6 all future difficulty.. England-had. been triumphant in- the conflict; she had attained the objects- for which she had.commenced-ana.had continued-hostilities. During the negotiations
for peate,. she had avowed her determination. ' 3 Jenkins.,
117.. -" The limits of Canada with regard to Louisiana shall
'be clearly apid'.firmly established, as well as those of Louisiana.and Virginia; :in such.m-anhier, that after the conclusion
of'peace there may be no more difficulties-between the two
nations with respect.to the corn truction of the limits with
regard to Louisiana, whether with respect to Canada or the
other possessions of England."- In.accomplishing this de.e
sig ) France relinquished the pretensions upon which
had before insisted to bxtend the limits of Louisian. to -the:
,eastward of the Mississippi-; England yielded her empty and
"valueless, claim,1tc carry the bounds of her Atlantic colonies
to the -Pacific; and to close.'all ground for future. controversy,.
.- Spain ceded her possessions; and Great Britain became the
unquestiOned' proprietor of all the territ6ry lying to the eastward of the line .designated in the 6th article.
France then, in~ceding-Louisiana- to Spain, ceded a coun.try, Which, with the exception of the- island -of Orle-an' J2ayo
exclusively to the 'westward of the Mississippi; she cedei it :
,as LoIuisiana, and it is -accepted'as such. Both of- these'..
powers were estopped. by these solemn acts from contendirig
that' Lbuisiana -embraced the, territory now- the s.ub.fect of'
consideratidn.
This treaty. has received the c6nsideration of this Cod'rt in
Harcourt vs. Gaillard, .12 Mheaton, :524. wher . it was-ob-served, "the country'of Florida, south of the. 29tb'dgree was a conquest by' Great Britain; and north of-the 29th de- "gree, and up the Missisippi was held as a part of her own.
territory, concerning -Which hei treaties with France 'and
Spain only established-a disputed bounddry."
After England had thus acquired\the title to Florida, and-.
had adjusted 'by solemn 'compact the disputes -as to boundary, sh'e. immediately erected these Acquisitions into two
governments, and designated them- by the' Pa"es of East.
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam1 s" Neilson.]

and West-FlQrida;. the boundaries of which are indicated in
the proclamation oflthe British king, in 1763. From that
period until aftei the .United States acquired Louisiana, .this
'question was considered' as at rest. The territory ,to the
eastward, of the D4issjssippi and the Iberville, the lakes Man-.
repas and Pon tchartrain, were -uniformly recognised as East
and West.Floria; that to the westward of the same line as
Louisiana
During thepeace which yreceded.,our revolutionary war;
no question, or-ground for questinoexisted. ,About the year1781,, Spain acquired by ponquesftpossession of.West Fla.
'rida, which she retained.* under -,that name, ,ntas.part -of
Louisiana which .then belonged to her. but As.a.territory.which.she had acquired by cqnquest frdm England the laviful.
proprietor, known only by the, appellation of West Florida.
*This possession thus acqi.ired, was thus continued, jure
bdliuntil the.terminatibnuof the war. By the 3d.4rticle of the
'preliininry. treaty -of peaqe, it was: stipulated fhat his Britannic majesty should cede East Florida, and his .Catholic
.mijesty should retain West Florida, So. also by the ..5th
'article of. the .definite treaty of September .3d, 1783.. his
Britannicmajestypedes, in absolute property, to his Catholic
majesty, as well East as West Florida, guarantying them.
No boundaries are rentioned,..The Floridasi known as.such
by both parties'to the compact,-are ceded by~words-of e.press grant. It is n0tan adjustment. of disputed boundaiie9
but a-ces'sion of an .absblute ,andperfect right.
rThe tieaty of 1763, then, Which this Court has considered
as merely fixinga disputed boundary, still continued in force.
The '-war had .bot affected this, portion of its stipulations.
".Where ireaties conte'mplate a permanent arrangement of
territbrial' and other national rights; it would, be. against.,
every.principle of. just interpretaiion, to 'hold them-extinguished by the event of war." Society, 4c..vs. New Haven,
8- Whedton, 494.
We may now briefly review some of;the leading acts of
all the powers concerned in the. treaties of 1763 and 1783;
to show that,- uniformly and without exception, such has been
their understanding of these compacts..

JANUARY TERM' 18-29.
Foster & Elam vs;Netlson.]

1. France considered the cession made by her to Spain
as comprehending the entire province of Louisiana. *The
first public intimation of that ce.ssion is contained in the

letter of the -French king to Monsieur L'Abbadie(a), dated
April 21 st, 1764. It commences with these -words: "Mon-.
sieur L'Abbadie ;-By a special act done at Fontainebleau,
November 3d, 1762, of my own will and mere motion; havirr.
ceded to my very dear and best beloved cousin the king of

Spain and to his successors in full prolierty, purely andsimply,
and without-any-exceptions, the whole country known by the
name of'Louisiana,-together with New Orleans and the
island'on which the said city.is situatedi and by.another act
done at.the Escuriali November .13th in the sane year, his
catholic majesty having accepted the cession' of the said
country of Louisiana, and the city alnd island of New Orleans,
&c."
This 'contemporaneous exposition of both parties to
the treaty, before any other interests or rights had intervened,
is entitled.to grave consideration..
2.' So in' regard to Spain. '-She had previously, as had
England, endeavoured to confine French 'Louisiana to tfe
western shore of the river;ishe had accept6d a-cession of
that territory as comprehending "the whole of Louisiana/'
and from that period to the.presenthas always soesteemed
it.-. After, she 6btaied -possessionof:her newly, acquirei
territory, she continued to hold 'it under the same name_ y_
the same limits. When by the treaty of 1783, she acquirea
the Floridas froriEngland; *itwas under a new-and distinct
titlewholly independent of that by which she held Louisiana. ' The' treaty, designates it as East and ,West Florida.
In all'the subsequent contro'versies between Spain and the*
United-States the same- names, are preserved.-.. To -many
purposes it was a distinct government from that of Louisiana, thoughi' both belbnged to the same monarch: it was
sometimes a depedendy-upon Cuba(b); and when annexed;
as'it a'pears occa, onalh; to have been. to the governrihent
(a) I Laws of United States, 442.
) and Laws, 46.
"

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elams. Neilson.]

of Louisiana, the executive magistrate was styled the governor of Louisiana and of West Florida.,
In the treaty of October 27, 1795, between Spain and
the United States, the same distinction is recognised and
'retained. The 2d article thus .declares: "1the .southern
boundary of the United States, which divides their territory
from the Spanish 'olonies of East and West Florida, shall
be designated by a 'line beginning on, the river Mississippi,.
&Q". Art. 4th,

"

It is likewise agreed that the western

boundary of. the .United States, which separates them from
the Spanish colonj of Louisiana,-is in the middle of *the

chaunel or bed of the -river Mississippi,- from the northern
boundary of the said states to, the thirty first degree of latitude north of the equator." The 5th article is to the same
purport.
Subsequently to the transfer of Louisiana to the United
States, Spain has uniformly asserted the same principles;
and has protested, in the most -decided terms, against the
pritensions of the American -government, to extend'their
purchase to the Perdido. Governor Folch's letter to governor Claiborne, dated Pensacola, May 1, 1804,'assumes'
the ground which has been uniformly maintained throughout the diplomatic discussions of this. question.
-3. It is scarcely necessary to recapitulate the various acts
of Great Britain, by -which-she manifested and maintained*
"her right to restrict the limits of Louisiana to the western.
sbore 'of the Mississippi. Long before the treaty of 1763,
this had been a fruitful source of discord. between herself
and France. The war of 1756 had grown out of the attempt by the latter to extend her two colonies of Canada
and Louisiana(a). The grounds assumed by her in her subsequent negotiations, and the manner in which, she'succeeded in establishing them, have been already corsidered.
4. In this controversy, conducted -inan American tribunal, it may .well be deemed important to ascertain the views
which have been taken and .acted upon by our own government: and the rosult of this inquiry vill show, that the
(a) I Marsh. Wash. 372. 383.

JANUARY-TERM 1829.

265

[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

United States have been As distinct as any nation, in asserting the principles for which the plaintiffs in. error contend,.
As early as the year. 1779 theJmportance of this-question
was perceived. In the instructions Then framed for Mr Jfay,
to conduct the negotiations with Spain which were ehtrusted to his charge,, there is a distinct recognition of the Flo-'
ridasi and an implied one of their dxtending to" the Mis~is- sippi(a). In the following year congress prepared a. statement of the clairh of the United. States to the western.
country as'far as the river Mississippi(b), in which the subject is discussed, and the *points now insisted upon strongly
urged. The minister was instructed " to insist. upon the
navigation of the Mississippi for the citizens df the United
States, in common with the subjects of his catholic .majesty,
as also on a free port or ports below the northern limit'of
West Florida." Reference is made to the treatyof 1763,
as having fixed the river Mississippi as the boundary be,twee'n the United States and the Spanish settlements; and
it is strongly urged, that the United States are entitled to
the. benefit of the cession made by Spain to Great 'Britain.
•In 1791; the secretary ofstate made a report-on the subjects
of 6ontroversy between the two governments, in the course
of which these matters are -again considered and pressed(c).
"Our right to navigate the Mississippi, from its source to
where our southern boundary strikes it, is not questioned.
It is from that .point downwards only, that the exclusive
navigation is claimed by Spain; that is to say, where she
holds, the %countryon both sides, to wit, Louisiana on the
west, and Florida on the east,' Again, "Florida was ceded
by Spain, (by the treaty of 1763,) and its extent westwardly
was fixed to the' lakes Pontchartrain and Maurepas'and the
river Mississippi." "We had a common right of navigation
in- the part of the river between Florida, the island 6f Orleans, and the western bank." "If we appeal to the law of
nature and nations, as expressed by writers oi .the subject, it .is agreed by them, that were the river, where it.
(b) 2 Pitk. Hist. 512.
(a) 2 Pitk. Bist. 511.
(c) 1 Diplom. ofthe. United States, 236.

Vet,. II.-2 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

passes between Florida and Louisiana the- exclusive right of
Spain," &c.
Reference has been already made to 'the provisions .ofthe
treaty of 1795, as conclusive upon both governments; and
it may be added, tnat in the negotiations which preceded
that treaty, as well as in the measures of both natinns in
carrying its stipulations into execution, by running the line
agreed upon, West Florida, as belonging to Spain, is uniformly considered as extending to the' Mississippi, anid
Louisiana as confined to the- western side of the line designated in .the treaty of 1763.
It thus appears, that from the earliest periods of colonial
history, Great Britain. and Spain had insisted that Louisiana
did-'not extend eastwardly beyond .the. Mississippi; that
France findlly yielded her pretensions by the treaty ofil,63 ;
and that from that period this question had been considered
as settled and at rest, notonly by all .the parties to that
compact, but especially by the United States.
The next important document to be examined ii the treaty
of St Ildefonso, of October 1st, 1800, between Spain and
France. One article of this treaty alone has been communicated to the public, and .that will be found recited in,
the
treaty between France and the United States, of April 30th,
1803(a),-tle first article of which' is in these words, "where-*as by the article the third- of the treaty concluded at St Itdefonso the 9th Vindemiare, an. 9, (1st October 106,) &c.
-it was agreed as follows: 'his catholic majesty promises
and engages on. his part to retrocede to -tile French Republic, &c. &c. the colony or province of Louisiana, with the
spme extent it now has in- the hands of Spain, -and that it
had wherf France 'possessed it, and such as it should be
(t'elle qu'elle doit etre). aftbr the treaties subsequently entered into between Spain and other states.' And whereas in
pursuance of the treaty and particularly of the third article
the French Republic has an incontestable right to the domain and to the possession of the said territory'; the, first
consul pf the French Republic desiring to give to the United
a) Land Laws, 42.

1 Laws U. States, 134.

JANUARY TERM 1829:.
tFoster & Elam vs. 'Neilson.]

States a strong proof of his friendship, doth hereby code to
the.said United States in the name of the French Republic,
forever and in full sovereignty the said territory, with -all its
rights and appuitenances, as fully.and in the same- manner
as they have been. acquired by the French Republic, in virtue of the above mentioned'treaty concluded with his catholic majesty."
free frbm
It will not be pretended that this language .is
ambiguity ; and the probability is, from an anecdote related
,by one of the negotiators Barb6 Marbois, in his recent work
on the subject of Louisiana, that it iwas not accidental. It
is now contended that this article reopens all the questions
'settled by-the tieaty of'1763, and acquiesced in by all parties from that period. -Louisiana- ;s no longer confined
within the limits there prescribed, and Florida-ii to be re-:
duced down to what France and England had before insisted
was properly-included within that name.
It will be remarked -that France cedes to theUnited
Staten what 'Spain had retroceded to her, upon the same
conditions and subject to the same' stipulations which were
cnntained in the treaty of St'Ildefobso. To that treaty reference must therefore be had to ascertain the extent of this
cession. The term retrocede' would seem to limit it to what
had. been before ceded; such is the natural and most obvious
signification of the term. In this-sense it is used by this
Court in Johnson vs. M'Intosh, 8 Wheaton, 584, where it is
said, "France eeded Louisiana to Spain, and Spain has since
retroceded the same country to France. At the time both
of its cession and and retrocession, &c."
But it was the province of Louisiana: was it ceded as
.France clained it-prior to 1763, with an extension of limits
di6tated by political.ambition and future aspirations, rather
than by.actual occupancy.; with vague and undefined boundaries, which had been contested by Spain in one quarter
and by England throughout nearly' their whole extent, or
with the boundaries solemnly and, deliberately settled and
recognised by treaty, the concurrent act of.all the parties
interested ' Was it that Louisiana which an 'ambitious me-l
narch claimed to extend so far to the north .andeast as to be

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

intimately connected with the Canadas. and to confine, the
English possessions between the ocean and the Alleghany;
or such as it was admitted to be when these lofty preten*sions were abandoned, and its limits clearly and for-the first
time defined 9'- Had the subsequent transfer to the United
States never Jeen made, our interest and our policy would
have dictated an answeir to these interrogatories, which
reason would have sanctioned, and which argument would
have confirmed.. We never for a 'moment should' have
yielded to a pretension which went to unsettle our western
boundary and title throughout the whole extent of 'the Ohio
anid Mississippi. But the whole character of the controversy
"was changed by our acquiring a new interest; and wd, by
virtue of the cession of Louisiana to us, claimed to the full
extent of the wildest pretensions of France when in the plenitude ofher power; pretensiops obsolete, unwarranted, and
long since formally surrendered.
But these several forms of specification are annexed to the
terms of cession, and these specifications, it is' submitted,
were introduced with a view to limit and restrict, not to
extend the generality of the previous language. 1. With
the.same extent 'that it now has in the hands of Spain. .2.
And-that it had when France possessed it. .3. And 'such as
it ought.tO be after the treaties subsequently entered -into.
between Spain and' other countries. Such is the language
of the treaty of St Ildefonso,'to which the.United States was
no party.,
. 1. With the same extent that it now has in-the hands of
Spain. We have seen that 'Spain from a very early period
iJesisted the extension of -Louisiana to the eastward of the
.Mississippi: that she was a party to -the treaty.of 1703, with
England, then owning the' Fforidad, which in this country
'has beendudicially and diplomatically considered as fixing
the limits of that colony. She had acquired possession of
'Louisiana, in 1769-of the whole country haying that aippeltation; but still, with -the-boundaries which had been settled.
When she acquired the Floridas in 1783,.no change of limits
was intrQduced. In her. treaty with the United States, in
-1795, they are recognised by both parties as still subsisting.

.JANUARY TERM 1329.
[Foster & Elam us. Neilson.]

When then did Spain possess the territory in question, under
the name of Louisiana!. Never. The first specification
then fails our opponents; and these three clauses must be
considered as cumulative and concurrent; all must be complied with.
2. Thatithadwhen France possessedit. What period is re-.
ferred to ! Did it mean at the period when the enterprising La
-Salle first descended the Mississippi, which the French considered the first possession; or when a few adventurers endeavoured to establish a settlement at Biloxi, which was speedily
abandoned; or when her restless monarch, stretching his influence from the northern lakes to the Gulf of Mexico, was
labouring to effectuate his gigantic project of attaining the
ascendancy over the entire continent! O9'Was that period
referred to, when compelled to surrender these lofty.pretensions, she compromised with her opponents, and fixed irrevocably the bounds of her. Armericaf dominions 9 Unquestionably, the latter.. Such were -the limits fixed by all the
parties in interest, in 1762, 1763.

It has been objected that

France never did possess Louisiana to this limited extent;
that she ceded it to Spain on the same day on which the preliminaries were signed, and consequently never had any title
to the country with these defined boundaries. But the ces"sion to Spain was made by a secret treaty, which has never
to this day been published to the world, and'which was fot
known to be in existence until April 1764, nor carried .into
execution by the trdnsfer of possession, until August '1769.
From the autumn of 1762 until August 1769, a period of
near seven years, France was in possession of Louisiana,
with thes6 6.icertained and settled limits; and at no other
period of time were the bounds either of her settlements or
her claims defined, even by herself. To this period'then,
this clduse of the treaty must have had reference,- and this
construction, and this alone, will reconcile the different.
clauses with each other; with what is reasonable, or what is
honest.
3. Such as it ought to be efter,'the treaties subsequently
entered into between Spain and other countries. It, may
well be doubted whether this phrase has, or was intended to

SUPREME COURT.
iFos'ier & Elam vs. Neilson.]

have'any reference to the subject of.boundary. It may mote

reasonably be indlerstood to look to those stipulations Which
Spain had made with other nations, particularly with the
United States; conceding to- us the free navigation of the
Mississippi, and a right'of deposit at New Orleans.
If, however, it be considered 'as referring to the sUbject of
boundary, what construction can it receive '. Subsequently
to the possession of France, Spain had entered. into but two
treaties which can in any manner affect the question : That
of 1783, in which Great Britain ceded the Floridas to her,
by virtue of which in her negotiationswith the United States
she claimed to carry her' rights up the Mississippi, as far
north as the mouth of the Yaroo ; but never urged, as the
proprietor of Louisiana, any rights to the eastward of the
Mississippi. The tieaty of 1795, already cited, was the second treaty which Spain had made, and that, as has been
shown, expressly recognises the Mississippi as the cbmmon
boundary of Louisiana and West Florida.
With these three clauses of de.scription, of limitation, not
of efilargement, was this territory ceded to France ill 1800.
Shohid do ubts still exist as to its extent, it is reasonable that
we should be allowed to. remove thpm, by 'reference to the
.contemporaneous acts of all parties. The treaty ofSt Ildefonso appears to have been signed on th Ist of October 1800.
The diplomatic history of ;ur own government shows that
the negotiations with France, which terminated by our acquisition of Louisiana, commericed ii January 303 .and that
.the result was not known in the ceded country- ur' -a iate
period in that year. The royal order from the kfrg 1drSpain
for the :delivery to France, was issued at Barcelona, Octbbdr
15,'1802: It directs-the delivery 'to be made to general
Vict6r or 0ther'officer :authorised by the French 'republic;
and he-is to be put in p6ssession of" the colony of Louisiana.
and its dependencies, as also of the city and island of New
Orleans, with the same extent that it now has, that it had in

the hands of Fiance when she ceded it to my royal 'crown,
and su6h' as it ought to be afte'r the treaties,-&c."'. On the
18th of May 1803, Don Manuel de Salcedo, the governor of
the Drovinces of Louisiana and West Florida, and the Mar-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster . Elam Vs. Neilson.]

quis 4e Casa Calvo, who were the -commissioners to. deliver
the possession to the French authorities; issuecd their proclamation announcing the fact of cession, and that the treaty
was to be "execute- d in the same terms that France ceded
it to his majesty, in virtue of which the limits on both shores
of the river St Louis or Mississippi, shall remain as they.
were irrevocably fixed by. the 7th article of the definitive
treaty of peace, concluded -at Paris. on the 10th of Febriary
1763, according to which the settlements from the river
Manchac or Iberville, to the line which separates the American territory from the dominions of the king, are io remain
under the poWer-of Spain, and annexed to West Florida."
The final act of. delivery to the French commissioner, is
dated November 30, 1803, and purports to transfer the possession ",of.Lauisiana and its depdndencies, as also of the
city and -island of New Orleans, to the same extent which
they now possess, and which they had in the hands of France
when she ceded them to the crown of Spain."- -These three
documents have recently -been submitted to congress in a
communication from the president, and will shortly constitute a part of the history of the nation. The two first;,which
are very explicit, bear date.when it Iwas not supposed that
this country would have- an interest in the subject. They
may be regarded as the contemporaneous exposition by.-both
France and Spain of the language of the treaty of cession.
No other power deriving interests, under them, or either of
of them, can question the construction which they have
agreed to place upon their own agreement.
But the United States did accept a delivery of this same
country as a full and complete execution of the treaty with
France, and recognized by the public act of their commis-.
sioners, of December 20, 1803, th full performance-by Spain
of the treaty of St Ildefonso, and by France of her engagemefits ,. .the treaty of the preceding April. Two separate
conventions between the United -States and France were
executed on the same day with the treaty of cession. The
first of these (1 L. U.S. 140) stipulates for the payment of
the consideration money for the purchase'of Louisiana. The
second article of this convention, aid the third of the'second,

.272

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

make the payments to fall due after the possession of Lou*isiana shall be given. By making the payments, we acknowledged that France had fully complied vith the engagements
to put us in possession.
The general principles of law may with propriety be referred to, as furnishing the b.est.and afest guides in the interpretation of public as well as private compacts. Both
France and Spain have derived their jurisprudence from the
civil code, and among all of themthis general rule will be
found. "The obscurities and uncertainties of obligatory
clauses, are to be interpreted in favour of the party who
obliges himself: and the obligation must be restricted to the
sense. which' lessens the obligation; for he who obliges him*self,,does it as little as he can, and if the other party is not
satisfied, he is bound to require a clearer and fuller explanation of the meaning of the clause(a).
The conclusion then to which we are brcqught by all these
different views of the subject is the same; and it is confidently submitted, that .by no fair interpretation of the language of the treaty of St Ildefonso, can it be understood to
have conveyed to France any portion of what was known
and occupied as West Florida; and that no portion of it.was
ceded to the United States under the name of Louisiana.
'Should it appear, h~owever, that we have misapprehended
the force of the arguments which have been presented, we
claim the judgment of the Court dpon other grounds.
From the year 1804 .the United States claimed to give
such a construction to.the two treaties that have been- considered, ad would pass the title to.the country east of the
Mississippi as far as the Perdido. This claim was, however,
confined to diplomatic discussion; it was not made public,
no notice of it was communicated tb the world, nor'was it
manifested by any dvert act or proceeding. Until the year
1810 nothing was done to enforce, this claim. During this
interval, while Spain continued -in-the full and entire exercise of her soveieign authority over this territory, unquestioned, so far as the world could kn6w, the grant, in question
(a) Domoat. Lib. I. tit. 1, See. 2, N. 15. 1 Pothieron Oblig. (En..Ed.) b2,
7thrule.

-JANUARY TERM' 1829.

1273

[Foster & Elam vs. Neilhon.J

was concluded; the title of the plaintiffs emanated. from
this sov.reign, de facto. -In our recent controversy with
Great Britain, in relation to the northl eastern b6undary, it
appears to have been agreed by both parties to be a fdndamental principle of public law and of common justice, that
the acts of a sovereign power over the territory which ithas,
ceded, are lawful until possession has been transferred(a).
This principle has been recognised by various acts of congress, -which admit the validity of grants made by France
andSpain, both* in the lower and Upper Louisiana, upkto
the day when. formal possession was: taken by -the American
authorities. Upon this principle the 'validity of this title
might be safely placed.: It-would be'the height of injustice,
for the government of the United States to' annurall'grants
made by the Spanish furidtionaries, -during the time, that
Spain occupied the country, viriually by our permissi64 and
under a claim of right.
In the year 1810, after Spain had become the scene of
turbulence and revolution, and the reins of government
over hercolonies had dropped from her hands, when various
moements were made in the Floridas, which threatened
danger and inconvenience to us; the President of the United
States issued' a proclimation, by virtue of which this territory was occupied by the American troops. This proclamation, dated October .27, 1801, (5 Wait's' State Papers,) although it asserts the right of the United States to the territory in question, represents it as a subject of discussion and
controversy between the two governments; places the act
upon the ground of an amicable proceeding, rendered necessary hy the subversion of the Spanish. authority; and asserts, that in the 'hands of the United States it would still
continue '"the s~bject of fair' and friendly negotiation and
adjustment." It)did contin-e' the subject of much discussion, until all the'differenees between the two nations were
terminated by the treaty of February22, 1819(b). By the
second article of this treaty, his catholic majesty cedes to
(a) Mr Clay to Mr Viughan, 17th March 1828.
(b) Land Laws, 53.

VOL.

.1-2
K .

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs.N eison.]

the United States, in full property and sovereignty, all the
territories which belong to him, situated to the eastwvard of
the Mississippi, known by the name of East and West Florida. By the 8th article, all the grants of lands made before
the 24th January 1818, .by his catholic majesty, or by.his
'lawful authorities, in the said territories ceded by his majesty to the United'States, shall be ratified and confirmed
'to the persons in 'possession of the lands, to the same extent that the same -grants would be valid if the territories
had remained under the dominion of his catholic majesty."
This is by its teims, so f~r as relates to these articles, a
treaty of cession. The first article so purports to iie; the
second purports to fix limits, but its provisions are expressly confined to the territories west of the Mississippi.
The- preamble sets forth, that the two parties haye agreed
"to settle and terminate all their differences and pretensions
by a treaty."
One of the most interesting of these differences respected
the country lying between the Mississippi and the Perdido.
Each party had pretensions to it; those pretensions had
been warmly urged; numerous private rights were dependent
upon the decisioh 6f"them. All these matters were either
settled by the treaty, or they still remain open. If settled,
it is by the general terms of cession: they are- sufficiently
cbmprehensive; they embrace " all the territories which
belonged to the king of Spain eastWard of the Mississippi,
known by the name of East and West Florida."
Had this territory continued under the pawer of Spain,
had the United States not in 1810 occupied it by force of
.arms, no room for controversy would have existed. Can
that act of occupation, preceded by the proclamation of
Mr Madison, followed up by sinilar declarations, that it
was not in' any manner designed to preclude discussion, but
to leave the question of title for subsequent adjustment unaffected by this procedure; in any manner bhange the relative rights of the parties, or vary the construction to be given
to the treaty of 1819 ?' Nor can our own municipal proceedings be resorted to, to aid in interpreL.ng the treaty.
Spain is not to be affected by our legislative or executive acts;

JANUAR.Y TBRM 1829.
[Foster & Elam vs.Neilson.]

and if any thing of that kind is resorted to fbr the purpose
of affecting the interests of her, or of her grantees, this government will stand condemned as guilty of a gross breach
of good-faith, and of a positive fraud upon the other contracting party.
A reference to .the-correspondence between the parties to
the negotiation, will show that such was not their design.
On the 4th October 1818, Don Onis, the Spanish minister,
communicated to 'Mr Adams, the American sedretary of
state, his project for this -stipulation -in the treaty, and he
proposed to, cede, "in full* property and soverignty, ,the
provinces of East and West FloridaL, with all their towns and
forts, such as they were ceded by Great Britain in 1783,
&c." The answer of Mr Adams to this coinmunication is
not published among the documents transmitted to congress
'on the 7th December 1818, but was afterwards made public.
It will .befound to contain the following explicit language.
"The uselessness of any stipula-ion on the subject of this
first proposition is further demonstrated by the nature of the
second,in which .you announee your authority to cede all
the property and sovereignty possessed by Spain in and over
the Floridas. The effect of this measure being necessarily
to remove all causes of contention between the.contraciing
parties with regard to the possession of those territories, and
to every thing incidental to them; it would be worse than
superfluous to stipulate for restoring them to Spain, in the'
very treaty by which they are to be ceded in full sovereignty
and possession to the United States." And in a subsequent
part of the same communication, it is also sEid-in reference
-to the stipulations of.a-former treaty; "whatever relates-in
them to limits, or -tthe navigation of the Mississippi, has
beenextingtiisled by the cession of Louisiana to France,
and by her to the United Statesi with the exception of the
line between the United States and.Florida,which will also
be annulled by: the cession of Florida,-whichyou now pro:
pose.".

-

The project of the treaty delivered by Don Onis under
date of the, 9th Febr.uary 1819, and.the counter -project of

Mr Adams -n the 1'Sth~of! the same month, will be found in

276

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

the papers communicated by the. president -to congress on
the 7th December 1819; and in p. 50 of the same documents
will be found the remarks of M. d' Neuville, who was active
in his efforts to bring the parties to a settlement. "It is
agreed by. both par-ties that the article stipulating the cession of "the Floridas,. shall be so framed as to cover the
honour of both parties, and prove that the treaty is an amicable convention, divested of all mental reservations, disguise or recrimination."
But the language of the treaty would seen-to preclude all
possibility-of question. The cession'by the king of Spain
of "all the territories which belonged to him, situated to
the eastward of the Mississippii, known by the name of East
and West Florida,'" by its terms embraced thie territory in
question. That was known by both countries, and repeatedly called West Florida. Infact the'two Floridas ieceived
their names by the same act which fixed their limits, the
proclamation of 1763. In retaining those names the same.
boundaries were preserved, and wedre never departed from.
Spain isequally precluded from gainsaying the wbrdi of
cession, as the United States from questioning the. words of
description. By adopting any limitation,. the treaty would
not do what itpurported to do; all the -differences between the two nations -are not composed all the territory. known by the name of East and West Florida was not
ceded; mental reservations must have been made;. disguises must have been assumed, and recriminations- must
ensue.
If this then be the true exposition of the treaty; the language of the 8th article would seefii. conclusive upon the
case. That provides that "all the grants of land made before the 24th of January 1818,'by -hiscatholic majesty or by
his lawful authorities in the said territories, ceded by his
majesty to the United States, shall be ratified and confirmed
to -the persons in possession of the lands, to the same extent
* that the same grants would. be valid if the territories had
remained under the dominion of his catholic majesty." No
distinction is made between that part of West Florida which
we.occupied in 1810, and that which still continued under

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]'

the authority of Spain. All are put upon the same foot; all
is ceded; and all grants throughout the whole are confirmed.
In De la Croix vs. Chamberlain, 12 Wheat. 599i this Court
remarked, "if the United States and Spain had settled this
dispute by treaty, before the United' States"extinguished the
claim of Spain to the Floridas, the boundary fixed by such
treaty would have concluded all parties. But as that'was
not done, ihe United States have never, so far as we can
discover, distinguished between the concessions of land"
ma de by the Spanish authorities within the disputed terri-tory while Spaip was in tfie actual possession of it, aid
concessions 6f a similar character within the acknowledged
limits."
It was strenuously insisted injhe court below, and we. are
apprised that the same point will be again pressed, that the
judicial tribunals of the United States are precluded from
investigating. this question, and giving a different construction to these. treaties from that which-they have received
from the executive and legislative departments. of the government. We apprehend that the question-before the Court
is one of a purely legal kind. In a recent correspondence
between the Spanish ministe'r and our own pxecutive upon
the subject of these grants, the former was especially referred to these tribunals as alone competent to investigate
*and decide upon the question of right. An American citizen
has a right to demand protection from the courts -of his
country against.the lawless acts of the executive, .and the.
unconstitutional proceedings of the legislature.
In the decision of this question the plaintiffs invoke the
aid of-treaties. They place their claim upon the'language.
of treaties which the constitution has made the-law of the
land, anal which cannot be annulled by the executive, or by
the legislature.
But have these departments of the government assumed
ground, which will in case of a favourable decision involve
them in controversy with the judiciary! We have endeavoured throughout the whole argument to show that in every
step we have taken we are sustained by-the executive. We
submit as conclusive upon the subject the executive con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

struction of the treaty of 1819, in relation to the grant made
to Don Pedro de Vargas.. This'grant.included-all the land
previously ungranted to the westward of the Perdido, '! comprehending all the waste lands which belong or may belong
to Spain, ,and are in dispute 6r reclamation with the United
States according to the tenor of treaties(a)." This wasone
of the three large grants of which our government demandedi and obtained from Spain, an express act :nullifying and
*avoiding them, as made in fraud of the 8th article of the
treaty. Upon what principle was this done unless upon the.
admission that the lands were grantable by Spain, and that
if. the date. was anterior to the period prescribed in the
treaty, the concession would be valid to pass the title.
In reference to the acts of congress, it may well be questioned, whether any mere municipal act of domestic legislation can be legitimately appealed to for, the purpose'of aiding in -the .interpretation of treaties: They were unknown
to Spain; she was in no' manner bound by them; nor ought
they to possess this effect.
'"But it is by no means appareit that anysuch language was
used, or any such intention entertai.ed'by congress. Nearly
*all their legislation on the subject grew out of the act of
occupation in 1810, and should be construed in subordination -to -the language of the. president's proclamation; -A
eareffil examination of these acts will show acautious and
guarded avoidance of this question.' The act of March 26th
1804(b); sect. 1, declares 1' that all that portion of country
ceded by France to the United States under the' name of
Louisiana, which lies south of the Mississippi territory, and
of an east and west line to commence on the" Mississippi
river at the"3d degree 'north latitude and to extend west to
the western boundary of said cession, shall constitute a ter.ritory'of the United States under the name of the territory
of Orleans." Sect. 12.. "The residue of the province of
Louisiana shall be called the district of Louisiana."
'The act of February 20, 1811-provides in 'the first section,
"That the inhabitants of all that part of the country or ter(a) Land Laws, 72.
(b) 3 Laws U. States, 603.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elain vs. Neilson.]

ritory ceded under the name of Louisiana, &c. contained
within the following limits ;" the fir-st lines are tQ. thewestward'of the Mississippi, which riveris reached at the 33d degree north latitude; "'thence down the said river to the river
Iberville; and from thence along the middle of the said river
and lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain, to the Gulf of Mexico."
The act of April 8, 1812, for the. admission of the st(ate of
:Louisiana into 'the uni6n,-in its first section prescribes the
snie limits.
The.act of April 14, 1812 is the" first which professes to
legislate directly upon- this tract-of country, and in enlargingthe limitd of Louisiana.so as 'to embrace a portion of it,
it styles it ", all. that tract Qf country comprehended'within
the. followingbpunds," no long~r employing the phraseology:before applied to- the undisputed country; ",all that part of
the ,territory or country ceded under the name of Louisiana."
The acts annexing- other -portions of this territory to Mississippi and to Alabama are equally guardedin their terms;
in precise.
ahy one act of cqggress.,which
r.o
.
ya
0
,noram I aware of
which.
a
partof-that
country
calls'this
language
and positive
-"
Louisiana.
of
namethe
under
us
to
ceded
was
This great and interestiig question, wihich has'heret~fore
been discussed diplomatically between the. representatives
of the two nations, where interests .Were involved in it,-upongrounds -of policy and nation@al'interest, is'now, presented
for decision as. a merely legai.fuestion. It has ceased to be
a national controversy,- and hs assumed a shape 'peculiarly
'fitted for this tribunal.
The-ulfima.ratio legis is to be :the arbiter, instead of the
ultima ratio xegum., No diepartment of the government can
*take.ei.eption at a decision -in favour of- the plaintiffs, and
it is confidently hoped, that if the treaties according to their
fair. con structfon-(the'-:supreme laws of the land) by a-just'
iilterpretation can sanction their title, it will here -find its
confirmation.
"
,.Mr Jones, foithe appellees.
third'exception,
the
This case comes ap for decision- on

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neison.]

tiken,by the respondent in the court below, which was sustained in that court, and the petition of the appellant there
discussed..
That exception was as follows:
"For that the petitioners do not set forth any right of
recovery of the land demanded.by.them, for that they allege
that the land demanded by them, lies in a district formerly called, Feliciana, within the late province of West Florida, and petitioners claim urider.a grant made by the Spanish governor of. land situated in said district, to the Verson
under whom they allege that they derive title,, at New Orleans, on vie 2d of January 1804, and subsequently confirme4
by the Spanish government; whereas, all that section of
country which was *formerly called Feliciana, was long before the alleged date of said grant, ceded by the government
of Spain to the government of France, and by the government of France to the United States; and the.grant aforesaid is .null and void, and ,has no effect whatever, and the
offiPeri making the same had not then and, there any right
or authority so to do."
The-point then for the decision of the Court is, whether
the plaintiffs, by their petition and the documents annexed,
e~hibit a prima facie right and title to the lands demanded
by them ;or according to the specific objection made by the,
defendant, had the Spanish governor of Louisiana any right
on the 2d:of January 1804; at New Orleans, to make this
grant to Jayme Jorda, of $40,000 arpents, or is it in any
way confirmed by, any laws of the United States or of the
state of Louisiana '.
This question is to be solved by deciding what were the
limits or boundaries of the territory, ceded by Spain to France
in 1800, and by France to the United States in 1803, under
the name of Louisiana.
The district of country within which the lands claimed
are situated, did not form part of the territory erected into
a state,'under the name of Loui~iana. This act passed February 18'I1. In April 1812, congress passed'an'act enlargifigthe limits of the state; and the parish of Feliciana, within
whicl these/lands are, f6rms a part of this district.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elam vs. Nellson.]

-This has more the appearance"of a question of fadt, than
of law.; but the parties have treated it as of the latter cfiaracter, as resting on facts of a public and notorious nature, of
which courts will take noticewithout proof. The divisions,.
districts and boundaries of -a country are as much a matter
of la:w, as the existence of the government, and of the Court'Part
l1. 410 to 428. Part II. 164.
itself. Starkide's E.
The question raised seems moreover'to belong, rather to
politics than law; it rests up on the cdnstruction of a treaty';.
and of the- construction of a treaty; as a -general question,
the government -is the best judge; and where the government has decided-upon a line-of-, construction,, there would
be-great embarrassment and ought to .exist.very. paramount
reasons, even with all'the power and control given. to "courts
under our very peculiarly organised federation, t'warrant
their departure from the construction given by the govern-ment.
*The defendant then insists,' and, it is the first line of defence .which 'he raises against the attaick of-the plaintiffs -,
1. That it has been long since. settled and established
by the- government of the United. States, that the territory in
question was ceded by Spain to France-in 1800, byFrance
to the United States in 1803; and that the courts of the
United States.are boind by this interpretation of that.treaty.
The act atithorising the President of the United' States to
take possession, or the. act erecting Loaiisiana into a territory, cannot of themselves,-and without the aid'of extrifisic
facts,, decide, the matter, because they no Where recognize
any specific limits of Louisiana: but'by what authority other
than the tzeaty.of 1803, and the constructio n conteided for
by the appellee, and adopted by 'he government, was Mobile taken possession of in"1804, and erected into a sepakate
revenue district, immediately on the ratification of the treaty .
.Act of congress.of 4th Febrtiary 1804 sect. 11. ' Procla,mationof the President,27th October 1810.- $tatePaperr
Vol. V..
-

Again, when in 1812 congress annexed this very-territory to
Louisiana, then already a state, could any thing more deci-,
sively mark and -ascertain'the clear construction and interV&, II.-2.L

SUPREME COURT.'
[Poster & Exam vs. Neilson.

pretation of congress, that this district of *countrywas ceded
by Spain -tdFrance in 1800, and by -fiiceto tfie United
States in 1803-can the courts of the United States, after
such conclusive evidence of the actg of the govenment, consider the-question as open, whether this territory was thus
ceded or iot'.
From the acquisition of Louisiana in 1803, to the period
of the conclusion of the treaty with Spain, by which Florida
was ceded to the United States, there has been an uninterrupted.series.of legislative acts affecting the territory, which
-the appellants say remained the property of Spain until the
Florida treaty. Cited acts of congress 2d March 1805, 21st
-April 1806,-3d March 1807, 3d March- 1811, 12th December 18111 25th April- 1812,-l 2th. and 18th April 1814, 3d
March 1819, 11th May 1820, 8th May 1822, 27th February
1814.
All these various acts of congress clearly recognise the
interpretation, that the territory in question was, ceded to
the'Un ted States by the treaty of Paris in 1803; and the act
of. 25th April $812 legislates on the subject of this identi•cal territory by desription,-viz. territory east of the island
of Orleans, and west of the Perdido: and yet the positiqn
taken by the plaintiffs in this case,- calls upon this Court to
decide that this territory formed no part of the United States
undl it was annexed to it by the treaty of Washington of
22d February 1819. -Hundreds if not thousands of certificates have been. issued by the, land commissioners to individuals under the acts of 1819, -1822, and 1825, conferring
titles, as against the United States, to lands lying within
this territory, and covered by grants similar to the plaintiff's.
The plaintiffs demand that all this solemn- legislation, and
all these judicial. proceedings,, are to be considered as so
much usurpation on the part of the government of the
United States on the rights of his Catholic majesty and 4is
subjects. It will suvely require some very cogent arguments,
and a very imperious necessity of duty, to induce this Court
to decide in contradidtion to such a sevies of acts of the
governmefit.' The states-of Alabama and Mississippi were

JANUARY TERM 1829.

e83

[Foster &-Elam-vs. Neilson.]

created in 1817, and--they also according to the dotrine,
contended for by the plaihtiffs, were made up of-large p6rtions of his catholic majesty's do-mini6ns ' for' such is the
direct consequence of maintaining that the terriibryeast
of the, island of Orleans -and-West Of the Perdido, was not
ceded to the United States by the treaty of 1803, but only
-by the treaty of 1819.' It is left to the Court to imagine the
consequences of such'a conclusion.
The question involved in this case has been raised- and
decided in the state courts, viz. in Newcombe vs. Skipwith,
- '
1 .Martin'sReports, 151.
The ..geiiral -principle and' rule of decisiori, that Courts
follow the .6lnstruction put upon treaties by their governments, is- laid down in ,the United States' vs. Palmeri 3Wheat. 610; the Divina Pastora, 4 "Wheat' 52 ;Williams t.8,
Armroyd, 7 Cranc, 433,434; where this Court expressly 'de.
clares, that it follows the opinion of the golernrdent'on a
questi.n of political law. Indeed the' principle .istoo obviously anecessary corollary of the cbnnection of courts. of
justice with. the government under which- they are established, to requie -elaborate illustration.. Under, this. point of
view- it is conceived that this Court ii concluded from entterthining any other opinion, than that- Which has already
been expressed-by'ihe government and all its cttizens,eexcept
those few whose.private interest indudes then; to'.iling to
an exploded fallacy.
2.It is now secondly urged, that the plaintiffs are :estopped 1y their own petition, from alleging that the territory
'inquestibn was not ceded by the treaty of. 1803. In order
to give jurisdiction to the court,'they were Obliged to allege
that the parish in which the- immovable claimed by them
.lies, is-within the state of Louisiana, which is the jurisdictional limit'of the court. If-within its jurisdictional limits,
how and when 'did 'it becgme s.!?- Fellclana was, as defendAnt insists, made part of Lohisiana ini 1812; but if noL
ceded till 18'19,-no law or act has been passed since4 at
time, annexing it to, and constituting it part of the'state of
Louisiana; and the court below had not jurisdiction over the
-

-

284.

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elant vs. Neilson.]

subject. The allegations of the plaintiff and his reasonings
are thus destructive of each other.
3. The defendant contends. that if the question is gone
into, historical facts and the official acts of the French.and
Spanish governments and a just interpretation of the freaties
of 1800 and 1.803, establish conclusively, that the colony or
province of Louisiana was ceded to the United States, -ith
an eitent which reached on its eastern boundary to the fiver
Perdido, and included the district in which the- lands that
plaintiffs claim is situated. The state paperg containing
the correspondence -of our ambassadors, Mr Pinkney and Mr
Monroe, with the Spanish ministers, embrace nearly.all that
can be said upon the subject.. See State Papers, Vol. XII.

p. 15*to 81, and 197 to 280. To reduce -the matters there
stated to some order, and to add what has since trinspired.
is all that will be undertaken.. The object of any deduction
of facts on this subject, is to show that France at some time
possbssed the territory in question under the. iiame of Louisiana; if this point ip established there is an end -of the controversy, for S-pan was bound by the treaty of St Ildefonso,
made in 1800; to- restore to-France whatever territory was
in her-possession, which France had at any time held under
the name of Louisiana. This is too obviously its meaning
to require to be dilated upon. The words of that'treaty are: "
"His catholic majesty promises'and engages on his part to
retrocede to the French rhpublic, six months after the full
and entire execution of the conditions and stipulations
herein relative to his royal highness the duke-of Parma; the
colony or.province of Louisiana, with the same extent that
it now has in the hands of Spain, and that f-had when France
possessed it, and such as it.should be after the treaties subsequently entered into between Spain and other states."
The Fren~h text is, "Sa majest6 catholique promet.jt s'eigage de son c&6 Ar6troc6der i la republique Fran~aise, six,
mois api~s l'ex6cution pleine et entibre des conditions -et
stipulations ci-dessus, relatives i s6n altesse royale le bDic
de Parme, la colonie ou province de la Louisiane, alec la
m~me-6tqndue qu'elle a actuellement entre les mains de,
l'Espagne, et qu'elle avait lorsque la France a posskdait, et

JANUARY TSRM 1829.

285

[Foster-& Elam vs. Xeilson.]

telle qu'elle doit etre, d'apr6s les tiait6s passes subs6quemment entre l'Espagne et d'autres etats.
It was ceded by France to the United States in the same
terms.
Did-France then, at any time, ever -possess any territory
as far or fartherito the,. east of the island of Orleans a§ thepresent parish of Feliciana, viz. the' territory-betweeh the
river Mississippi and the eastern 'branch of Pearl river .
The discovery of .Louisiana by La-Salle-in. 1682; his unsuccessful attempt to form .a settlement tRio Colorado de
Texas in 1665; the expedition and settlement of Iberville in
1699, at Dauphin Island and Biloxi, where he.'remained
governor oor twenty-three, years', and -exhibited a' character
for enterprize and perseverance, which has not ben surpassed; ate-clothed with the' character 'of histoical events;
and this spot, far eastward of the present state, vas'the first
to receive-the name of Louisiana. -it was twenty-three'years
after the priod of the settlement of the French.at Dauphin
Island and Bfiloxi, before 'the head juarters of the province
were moved to the banks of the Mississippi. A&t the barren
and inhospitable Biloxi, Iberville,. constrained'.by orders,.'
maintained his government long-after his own judgment was
convinced that the fertile'bank of the Mississippi 'was destined to be the site of an immense metropolis. These
-*evehts, and the general settlement of the country, are mi'
nutely detailed in a. recent publication, and the authorities
from which they are takeni are referred'to. .flMartin's*Hi-.
tory of Louisiana,.Vol, I. from page 122 to page 300, who
cite's Charlevoix, Laharpe, Vdrgennes, Dupratz,-and 'the
records of-the country.
That France always gave a limit to Louisiana' whlch embraced the territor 'in question,. may be 'further seen by tle
grant to Crozat, made, in 1712, in which Crozat is appointed'
.solely to carry'on trade,' -in all the lands possessed by us,
and bounded by New Mexico and the lnds of the English
.Carolina, all the establishments, ports, havens,, rivers, and
:principally the-port and haven of the island of Dauphin,
heretofore called Massacre; the river of St Louis, heretofore
called Mississippi; from the edge of the sea,'as far as Illinois,

SUPREME -COURT.
[Foster & Elam tit. Neilson.]

together with the river of St Philip, heretofore called the
MIssourys; and of St Jerome, heretofore called Ouabache;
with all the- c6untries, territories, lakes, within land, and the
rivers which fall directly and- indirectly into' that part of St
Louis."
The manner in which France dispossessed herself of Lou'isiana infavour of Great Britain and Spain by the treaty of
1763, ceding the part of Louisiana east (to'the left) of the
island of Orleans to Great Britain, and the island of Orleans
and the part of Louisiana west of the Mississippi to Spain;
'the consolidatiop of the part of Louisiana thus acquired by
Ehgland with other territory ceded-to her by Spain in 1763,
which consolidation constituted the province of West Florida; and the subsequent acquisition by Spain of WestFlorida,
thus embracing part of Louisiana, in 1783, are so fully and
explicitly detailed in the correspondence of our ministers,
contained in the state papers at the place cited, in the reasons given for the-judgment of the court, and in the extract
from the treatise on American diplomacy, that it would only
lead to repetition to anticipate them. For the same. reason
the Court is referred to these- extracts for a critical analysis
of. the language of the treaty, from which it will be -found
that to consider the territory in question as ceded by Spain
to France, and by France to. the United States is the only
key to the peculiar and otherwise ioexplicabld phraseology
of these treaties. That this peculiar phraseology applied'to
,the dimensions of the teritory to be ceded rather than to
any other modifications it had undergone. by treaty, is clearly
deduced from, the terms used. His catholic majesty retrocedes to France, "the zolony or. province of Louisiana with
the same extent that it now hs in the lands of Spain, and
that ithad when France p9ssessed it, and such as it should
be after the treaties subsequently entered into between Spain
and other §tates."
The words the same extefit are to be understood as applyjng to each member of the sentence, viz. with the' same-extent that' it now has. in the bands of Spain, and with the
same extent that it had when France possessed it, and with
such extent as it has or ought to have after the 'treaties sub-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

sequently entered into between Spain and- other stafes; this
is obviously the meaning of this peculiar phraseology, and
it is confirmed by adverting to the. French text, where'the
word telle is placed in the feminine to accoid with 4tendue,
the last preceding substantive. From these premises, there
-can be no doubt that the learned, judge o'f the court of.-the
first 'instance is fully borne out and supported" in the conclusi-on that the country east- of the island of. Orleans, including Mobile, &c. to -the rerdido, was from 1682 to .1763
in possession of France underlthe name of Louisiana; that
it was ceded and intended to be ceded to h~r again by Spain
in 180, and by France to the United States.in 1803. The
arguments' pro and con on this subject are wbll 'summed up
in a publication entitled,- Diplomacy of the United States,
From this work it appears, that during the negotiations
which ended in the peace of 17B3 at an, unsuspicious moment, Spain herself admitted that the country bordering on
the east side of the Mississip'pi, previous -tothe-wa of 1756,
.•
belonged to France.
ere are
This law lays down the principle, that where
two purchasers. from. the same vendor, who-have .both paid
the price, -he who gets first into-pbssession is to b. maintained in the,title. -,T6.pr~pa're for the .applicition\of this
law, it- is- laid down,: that nations- are mere moral b.eings,
and that they are to be governeo in'all the contracts which
they enter into among them,, by the same rules by vhich
contracts of the same nature. are governed, 'when -entered'.
into between private persons.
•It. is further assumed,. that the United States. are-a mere
purchaser from France; and plaintiffs' grantee, in like man-

ner, a purchaser fromSpain,. who was in the tctual aidministration of the country. It ig.next asserted, 'or -sought to
be. inferred, that plaintiffs" grantee-was put in actual "pbs.•sessidn- of his grant, before the. United States took. actual
possession, in. December 1803, and -therefor,. inder -the.
.aforementioned, rule of law. 'has a, better • title"than the
United States, or any. persons deriving claini under them.
-The sophistryQf cnmparing b. cession by treaty, between
nations, to an ordinarybargain and -sale;. and, applying tme

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Nellsom]

rules of law as to. property among individuals to the transactions among nations, is almost too obvious to require refutation.
An act, erecting ,Louisiana into two territories, passed
26th March 1804.
The 14th section of that act. annuls all grants made within the ceded territory,, subsequent to the treaty of St Ildefonso, except to actual settlers, &c.
*Nolaw of the United States has passed exempting grants
such as that under which plaintiffis claim, from the nullity
with which they are struck by this section of that law. For,
1. This grant violates the usual powers vested in a- governor, and the laws, usages and customs of the Spanish
government on this subject, in granting so large. a quantity
of land; and hence the,ratification of the king was sought
and obtained, but at too late a period to confer a title.
2. No actual settlement is pretended or alleged.
3. The grant exceeds a league square.
It is not a little singular for the good faith of these -large
grants, that -they are all located precisely between the Mississippi and the Perdido, all hurried through with the-speed
of lightning, compared'with the usual pace of Spanish authorities, -and made about the same period of time. That the
payments are not in money but in certificates of credits, issued-by the ministerz-cffinance. ,
, That tfie grant itself expressly declares the land. to be
within the province of Louisiana,- for the caption is, Luisiana, Distrito de Baton Rouge; that it is issued by Morales, while he. yef remained at New OrJeans. With. these
concurring facts, it is n6t surprising that the governmentof the United States have refused to confirm eight or ten
grants, which embrace 500,000 acres of land.
After the liberal course of proceeding on the part of the
United States, in relation to grants, up to the very period
that possession was taken by her, after the long usurped
retention of it by Spain, the Court, or any one else, can feel
no commiseration either, for the original grantees, parties
to such gross frauds, or for speeulating purchasers ofiloubtfil titles.-. Technicalities. sometimes serve as.handmaids to

JANUARY TERM 1829.

289

[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

justice; they may also be wisely used to d6feat fraud; and
the claim of the plaintiffs is of such a 'nature; and entitled
to so little favour, that the Court would decide agairfst it,
even if they were obliged to rest their decision on a rigid
technicality. Even if it were necessary to resort to summum Jus to extinguish it, it would work nothing but summa
justitid.- But this is not necessary. The plaintiffs' title
vanishes on the application of the plainest principles'of law,
and the most ordinary rules of decision.
To any'argument predicated on the ground,.:that Spain,.
being in actual possession, had a right-to make grants, it
may be answered"
1. That from the] st ofOctober 1800, tle country belonged
,to France, who transferred it to the United' sates in'1803,
as she received it by cession from Sp .i If Frahce permitted it to be governed 'by Spanish atithorities, frim want
of ability to take possession, or moffives of convenience,'the
Spanish authorities could not g6 beyond mere acts of administration, viz. such as were necessary to maintain the bond
of society; they were not at liberty to digpos'e of the public
domain at their own will and .leasure; or to fill their coffers
by its sale.. To 'this extent, alone, isgany succeeding go'
vernment held'by the general "principles of political law,
(independent of special conventions) to redognise the acts
of thei.r predecessors, who have tted" the de fdidjo *ithout
being the de jur'e government. The United States suc•ceeded to the rights of France, and France was not bound
to recognise acts similar to these, done after the date of the
acquisition.' It is not considered 'that the 3d article of the,
treaty, which secures the protectiort and enjoyment of pro-'
perty; is any limitation on the :firit'article'which trafisfers
the' province as fully, and, iii the same mainer in which
France' received it from' Spain. -But' even' lard' it been.
justice and equity' to recogniseall ordinary acts of administration, 'still, every act which was in fraud ' of the real
owner, he might disavow dnd refuse to ratify; fhes6 '4arge
'grants of land, so unusual, -and at viariance' with 'the' ordi-"
nary Spanish regulations on this subject,' ai'y: too Strongty'
on their front their -haricdte,
Voi. II.-2 M

to entitle 'fhein to 'nftavodj

r

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster.& Elam vs. Neilson.]

The government of thle United States has, as we have seen,
gone very far in recognising every species of title which had
the presumption of fairne.ss,.that emanated from the Spanish
authorities,' prior to the taking. possession of the country,
on the 20th of Decembe'r. 1803,. and even up to 1810; 'but
they have guarded their liherality from abuse, by imposing
various' reasonable :conditions, within which the plaintiffs'
claim does not come.,
Thp acquisition of the United, Stktes was. made in April
1803, and no step was taken. towards originating this title
till. October 1803, long after, we, may fairly presume the
knowledge of the transfer-was made public. The United
States 'had the. ight, and, theyhave exercised it, to refuse
to ratify every-such grant made after their title was acquired,
and afortioriafter-it was known ; and they have always refused to give any colour or shadow of legal right to claims
-of the magnitude of that under the wings of which plaintiffs
seek to cover the. tract of land in dispute, conceiving them to
have been. issued in fraud of.their rights of.sovereignty'.The circumstance therefore: of the Petition- and'order of
survey being, made anterior-to the -taking-possession by the
United States, but posterior to the cession and while Spain
was in adtual possession ; cannot confer on the plaintiffs any
right, if the United States, as they have uniforumly done; refuse to ratify an incomplete title, which as sovereign they
may refuse to do.
'Z As to. all titles which emanate -from- the sovereign.
and are set- up, against -the sovereign himself,. it is the. go,
vernment alone which can ,through" its tribunals determine
. on such claims .
. ... ,, *
,
The United States have ,instituted tribunals to decide all
claims to land,..of whose want of liberality in.confirming
titles .there-has been, no complaint; except by ,a few individuals -whose claims are judged't, have originated in fraud
of the rights of the United States.- The claim of the pliintiffs has been presented for record and confirmation; but it
has not been approved or confirmed-by-the commissioners,
or we should have heard such approval and confirmation
alleged in.the petition. ,'The United States have given away

JANUAIY TERIM1829.

291 .

Eoster&Elam bs. Keilson.]

these very lands and by doing. so have not only manifeste;
their liberality and wise policy, but conferred rights .afid
created interests which,.from, the- extent and varietyof Ithepersons interested, ought 'noi now to be affected ; unless&indeed the strictly impartial scale of justice -preponderates.
against'them, when ,indeed they must be'extinguished even
-if the sword'of justice be necesiary-to enforce the decree.
Of such cc result we -fave little apprehension,-sustainediis
we .are by"such a mass of legislation and the substantial
rules of political law.
The question submitted in ihis case was glanced at-.
la Croix vs. Chamberlain, 12. Wheaton, 599. That cas-ewas'
decided On' the 'technical ground, ,that an imperfect -title
could not sustain an action of ejectment.- The-same o6jection might eiist'in this case, if the-acts of, tfhb'Spanish go-,
vernor and king are 'considered- as without" authority ove'r
the territory described after 1803. But the case is adverted
to, ptincipally with- a view to an- opinion advanced,' as "we
presume by the deciding judge; for it-is notanecessary reason for,- Orlpivot of the decision of the Court. '
The referencesto the acts :ofcongress, already givei,-show
with what limitations the UnitedStates lhave confirmed title's
Which' had their coihmencemenf.after-October 1600, viz, the
date of thb treaty 6f St Ildf~nfso; that it is only 'grants
limited-as to quantity, viz,.a' le'ague sqdiare,,and which were
accompanied by 'settlement,, and. considered 'by ther commis?,
sioriers to have commenced in' good faith,'which weie thus'
confirmed.- As 'to 'any grants which originated after October 1800,' c6nfering -titles to land to- an extent excdeding.
a league square, the 14th. section of the act of-1804 at once'
annuls them, and.-no subsequent law:has.withdrawn, its Witheting effet, This-andthe subsequent-adts clearly.shw,j.
that the 'United States'considered that the cession by Spain
to Frtnce, pu 'an end- to the - power, of. Spanish officers,to
make grants *f land; and this. -doubtless.was -the strict, law
of the case. The possession of Spainafter, 1800,-was not.a
possession -"s owner, .Her officqrs -could-thereforq'onl- do
administrative and conservative acts-;- and not acts of ,purie
sovereignty: It is-,respectfuJly i-insisted,. that_ the -United "

SUPREME COURT.
tFster & Elam s.-Neilson.]

States' drew.a'clar di.sti ctioi as to dates, permitting grats,
prior to 1800, to rest on their proper legality'for validity';
but constiting themselves into- judges of all grants made
subsequent to that period. They have confirmed all acts
'done- or granis made after.October 1800, up t6 1803; wherd,'
from the miniuity or contracted dimensions, they carried-presumptie proof, that they were. made in the ordinary exercise of.sQvereignty, and f good faith; at least on the'part,
of-the grantees. They have even carried this liberality in.
favour of-such grants, -made prior to 1810, when the country.
was actuhlly taken pos§e'ssion of. Joydra's patent comes
within no one of the confirming acts.:
The. plaihtiffs must. either succeed *inestablishing that
Louisfana was 'bounded on the east by tht Ibeiville and the
lakes, or their grant'falls to th-e ground. When the-,plai ntiffs invoke the aid of the treaty of" 1819, it is hy assuming
that the ground of dispute was not included -in Louisiana,
under the cession'of 1803. We have,'as we '~prehenld,
clearly refuted this pbsition. The treaty of.-1-819 hassubstance'enough for its application,'in the use -of the terms,
'West Florida, in the territory actually ceded, viz. the portion of'West Floridti, between the Perdido and the Apalachicola, to~render unnecessary the establishment of a prin
ciple Which would stamp with usurpkti0n'and .injustice so
.large a portion of'federal legislation, and annihilate
the original legality of'the rights of thousands in the states of Alabama, 'Mississippi and Louisiana,
- It 'is not'therefore on such a fitle as the one presented by
pl.intiffsi predicated on a petition and order of survey for'
forty "thousand arpents 'ofland,made after the cession,
which 'tokplace in April 1803, and of which the title vias
fi'otcompleted till January and May 1804,and 1805, unaided

bk any sanction of the government of the United States, and
in the tery teeth of if4 laws ,that the plaintiffs can'reover.
In the'w6rds of the exception, the grant or patent whs made
by persons who had.not at the time any authority to grant
lands" within ihat district. 'The plaintiffs show no legal
tile to the lafids' claitried by them.'

Subsequent acts of'congiees have established land 6ffices

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elam vs. Nelfson:3

in the territory of Florida,-westward of the-Perdido ibut the
disputed territory remains-part of the States of Misisppi,
Alabama and Louisiana, under acts of congress whichxecog.
-nise it as ceded by the treaty of.4803. There is certainly"
manifested in tte pretensions of the plaintiffs .in setting up
this title, a gratifying iistance of the latituate of igal discussion .perw.ttedunder our -free 'institutions ;.but there"is
something h6peless in the supposition that. courts of justicehmight by possibility entertain an opinion different from the
one so early taken and so long persevered in bfte government,-nd by which no palpable contradiction or absurdity
is maintained: the judiciary-muqt be considewd-as bound to
follow, the twenty years interpretaion givend by their government to aotreaty made by them. Even under our very.peculiar form of government, it would be a singular instance
of imperium ininmperio, if the judiciary and the governmentwere found deciding such a question in. different'wayp.
Mr Webster, for the appellants, in reply.
The question for the decision of the Court is, whetherthe
•lands sued for by the petitioners are a part of the provinde of
Louisiana, as- that province was ceded" by France to the"
United States ; or are a -part-of West Florida, as that province was ceded by Spain to the United'States. If-a part
of Louisiana; then the lands were public domain; ftnd now
belonged to the United States or her grantees. If a part of
Florida; then the grant under which the plakintiff derives title
is good, and he is entitl.d to recover.
Louisiana, as'the United States received it-from France,
was bounded on the east,. either by the Iberville and the
lakes, or by the Perdido; rfo other or intermediate boundary
Zs set up. If the United States .obtained their *title from
France, they have both soil and jurisdiction .;ifunder Sp'ain,
they have the jurisdiction but not the soil..
What was the extent then' of the,grant from France to the
- United States of. April b0th, 1803 . The g'ant was of the
proyince of. Louisiana; "it
stated no boundaris, nor limit , but-it referred to the title of France, that is,.to the ireaty of
St Ildefonsb." The words of this treaty have been frequpintly.

SUPREME' COURT.,
[Foster & Elam vs. Nellson.]

repeated in the course of the -argument. That treaty then
is to be looked at and considered.
That treaty retrocedes to the dolony or province of Louisiana; 1. With the same extent which -it-now has in the
hands of Spain. .2' That it had when Ftance possessed it.
3. And such as it ought to be, after the treaties subsequently entered into between Spain and other states.
How then is this treaty to be construed q
.1. In the first place we- must look ,at the condition and
state of. the -country as-they then were. ,From November
1762, a period of-thirty-eight-years, Spain had owned Louisiana she badobeen in the actual possession of it from 1769,
a period of thirty-one -years. During all this time, she had
possessed it as bounded on the east'side by the lalies. From
753 .to 178 .,England had owned the territory on the left
bank, under the ;appellation of Florida. For twenty years
-England and Spain occupied respectively, each its own territory, with. boundaries settled by ireaty and wellrunderstood.
In 1783 Spain. obtained, the territory, on the left bank from
England, but she. obtained it as Florida. As -such it-was
ceded to her, and as such she received it. From 1783 to
1800, seventeen years she'owned -bothbanks; butsheowned
one as Louikna, and the other as Florida. -This, is perfectly clear as pm atfer of fact.; and the provinces were as well'
known, and divided by lines as certain, as aret the provinces
of Spain at home.
For forty years not one foot of land east of the Ibervilte
had. been treated by her, as part of Louisiana. Her laws,
her ordinances, her colonial governments, her ar'chives, her
administfation,-all recognise the distinction between Lou
isiaha and Florida.
This is the-great leading consideration; it is entirely unquestionable as matter of fact,. and quite, important in the
argument.
Louisiana, then, -at that time Was as clearly -defined in its
6oundfiries, at least on the east,-as Estramadura or Anda- "
lusia. All this -was known to -France.:- 1st, because it,was
known to every body; -and 2d, because these were the limits
with which France herselhad' ceded Louisiana. to-Spain.

JANUARY TERM, 1929.

295

[Foster &'Elam vs. Neilson.)

Under these circumstances, the treaty of St Ildefonso was
made.
1. It:cedes "the colony or.province of Louisiana."1- This
of itself is -a sufficient description; -if nothing more' had
been said; the rolony would have passed, .with .its, then
known and established boundaries, its much so- aifit
had.
-

-

been Castille or Arragon. - If it had'stopped herldwould

there have been'any doubt.0 Certainly none.
- This is yery inportant; because if the gtaht.thus far is
clear, thbn it-is not 'to be, affected by any thixi; in itself'leis"
clear; if all that follows, taken together, be ambiguous,.then
it ought not to control-.the preceding, which is free from
ambiguity. That would be worse than to illustrate the obscure by the obscure; it would, be to obscure .'t4-eclear- by'
the obscure. Vattell, Book II. Ch. XVIL Ui 0n the ihterpretation of ireaties, interprets the 6bscureq'o
that it agrees
with what'is clear and plain. Therefore-if'ill that follows,
r6jected.
taken together, is doubtful,'it is all to be
2; But properly considered, what. follows is not doubtful.,
There ,are.two ways in which these three 'modes -of description may be considered; and each will'lead to the sdme
'result. 1. Theymay be viewed as explanatory of each other,
or. as synonymous phrases. This probably is the. true mode
of, regarding, them. 2.- Or as qualifying.' and limiting each
other.
1. It is -natural to- consider then as-synonymous., They
are copulative; they are evidently used as 5yrronymous. Take
the two first;:" Louisiana is to be ceded 6s Spain now holds
it, . and as France held-it." Does not this form of expression
imply that-the extent was te' sam& in both eases'. If-the
extent was different, then both could not be true. Ydt both
are. used, and the inference therefore.is, that they were'used
•as.synonymous.
If the ettent had been differenti then the language would
-

haie. been

t -a .Spin-now
"
hblds it, but as France held-it.

°Th'e fair import 6f-the expression is, 'that -they mnean the
'same'.thing; -or were intended to. express the same thing.
Now if these expressions appear in any. degree inconsistent'
with- themselyes, :what is: the rule" to be applied to them'?.

SUPREME COURT.
[Fosier S Elam vs. Neilson.]

Clearly, it is to find out, if -we can, one which is clear and
certain; and make the rest conform to it. This is the rule
one of these descriptions
oficommon sense. Now there is,
perfectly.clear, unambiguous, and free from doubt; and that
is e ntitled to donirol all the rest' Becauseit corresponds
ptecisely with-what 'ecedes in the treaty; because it is first,
and leading in the order of -arrangement; ibecause in itself
it is perfectly distinct and. intelligible.
There is no'doubt how the treaty would have stood. if it
had stopped there.
'The'doctrine contqnded for -on the other side, overrules
thi plain exp'ressions'of this provision.- They contend Louisiana'shl1U iot have the same extent as in. the hands of
Spain; they control what is-clear, by what is- ddubtful.
But it is further.evident, tlhat two of these claoses completeJiyagree, the: first and the last; "such ad. Spain now
holda ft," and' such as it ought to be after'the treaties made.
by herA' these are precisely the same thing•Then, if these expressions were used as mutually explana.tory, as different modes of expresidg the same thing; how
are twO of them which - are clear, and which do agree,' to bi
explaindit away by the third,- ihich is doubtful '.Thesetwo
are almost identical, "sdch as Spain, now holds it," and
"such as itought to be'after the treaties made by hdr."
Then we come to what l6as :raiied the* doubt ;." or-. as-it
was when Fiancc pIossessed it." Now this expression may
be oubtfui, br might beif it stood alone, especially if it be
admitted that.France possessed Louisian a, long tiihe, and
that 'at different' periods,' it 'had itdiffereht extent inhet
-lVands.
•The object is tO'fix the period of her-possession, to which

-

-

'this refers.

-

-

Let' it be admitted; for the present, that it had adifferent

extent. at different periods.

Was there *anyp eriod When,

by acknowledgment, she held, it bounded east by the Mississippi 1 There certaifily wad;- viz. t he momeht of its 'actqal dliveryto'France in 1169: Fbr-seven years, it had
n6 ther boundary. but .the Ibe~rville
- But it-is- enoug'to-siy she so p'sessed it, in 1762 and

JANUARY, TERM ,1829.
"(Foster &,Elam vs. Nedlon.]

1763; and.soceded it, when she held the, whole 'of Luisiana.. It is then to that' moren'nt that these wbrds' are to
refer; it then went into the possession of-France' to the .full
extent now claimed by the petitiobera;- because in this -way.
the nrticle is reconciled in all its parts.
But there- is a.stronger ground. It is quiteclear,-from the
treaty-itself, .that, it iefers to -the possession.f France, at.
the moment after the cession. ."
The. third clause makes this
mainfest; "and such as it. ought to 'be, after the, irdatlies
subsequently-made by Spain," &c.
Now here are treaties spoken of as made by Spain, sub-"
sequentto ikisposseasion.ofFrance. Not treaties by France•and Spain, but treaties by Spain alone.. This necessarily.
fixes the jefiod to be that of the cession; fo:r before that
time Spain could not.affect -Louisiana by treaties.f,*Does:the treaty mean after the treaties entered* into by
-Spain, subsequent to Lasalle's voyage-in 1682 ;' or the pri mitive-possession of France !.
* It is, therefore, confidently-aisserted, that it is not 'only. an
admissible, but.the only admissible construction -of the
clause,As "the time of possession by' France irferred. to in
the -treaty was.th-e :moment of ler cession. .But. there is
anoiher mode of c'onsidering.these clauses;.and Xhat.-is not
to.regkr4 thent as synonymous, .but as qualifying -and limiting each- other;- and- this will leai the Court to the same
result.
.- Thus far the. subject- has been considered, as if there
ivere thre'clauses, or phrases'of description. .'---'But it issuggested that there are but two, the tw "first
ng-in
factbt -one: The-farm of expression jutifies this.
.onstruction; "-with the.,sam e,extent 'that it 'now has in
the hands of:Spain, and-that it had when France possessed
it; andsqch -asit.ought to have been by subseqqenttreati,es."
TheI first"sentee -.states- the'same.- thing, and the' iast"
qwliafmit.. The-meaning is,. take-the cQlony as, you hold
it)
and as I reqeive'iL fromyou, subject to anytreaties since
-Tnae. by me.- .The punctuation- shows this, as-well as the
phrase, and-manner.of expression..
If,
this.construction, which appearsto b the right-one,
VOL. IL.--2,N

-

-

-

--

-,

SUPREME COURT.-[foster & Elam us. Neilson.]

be.adopted, .the result will jbe the -same;-viz. that the time
of possession reierred to, was the time -of the esion- to
Spain.
But, we may go further and contend, that.-no reasonable
argument can be found for 6airying back this possession to
early hi.story,;. in'sho-t, that France never did possess West
Flrd as part of Louisiana, -within the" meaning of words
uted'asthese words are.,
She claiined it.indeed, but she never possessed it. She
had a settlement h ere and there, with. an. undefined. claim.
Shd claimed ii, -but no'-treaty acknowledged it, and it was
always'disputed until 1763.', 12 Wheaton. 522.
Itwas cer.tainly ohe" object of that treaty to settle the
limits ,of Nova. Scotia:; and" the fair 6onstruction of -the
article is, that it fixes bouziddries; and that it purports to cede
territory,does ,not alter- the nature or intent of it. There
-were Words-of cession,
France had. a: settlement at
Dauphin Island. On the 3d of November 1762, by.priate "
trehty, Franice ,ceded Eouisiaria -toSpain-all Louisihna; and
by a ti'eaty -with England," she ceded the country east of the
Mississippi4:t England. ' At'ti6 time of thedefihitive treaty of 10t" Februar.7-.3'Spaini owned Louisidna urder the treaty of November preceding; ahdfi6ki -s6*cedes.Florida to-England, and -llhei
pbssessions eatof the Miflgsissippi." This was certainly a
-because-

- -

designation of limits.

flow did the "pais understand the treaty of 1763 7
The
to L'AbbididK;I Laws- U. S, '442, shows thatrt
W, letter
c'6nsiddret that the- whofe "of L6iiiana' was the
prop.4ty-6fA§i'ain'; and. theih,-7T63, it wais 'admitted that- the
the wio1 'ot hoiuana Iay west of the - is~issip li';. and' in
i.'763, patci '/dc'i g th~Ift -bank- of the river from England,; r'eiv*ed
'
tfrs".F4oiAdd. It' n"ay 16e biphaticall, fnquited
whethr -it'is' re6ondilable to sodi d'• principles, l'2oback
to tie'-ti'meg-of t'fiertaln' ind'dofitentious claims,'ortb the
tirief I6944nd # kno wedged'rights. 'A' contemporaneous
-

e~ifositto Af th6"treaty' of 9t Ifdfohso is -obtained fromtihe,
acts 'f the parties to that -6tety: .Whei' d'h th 30th No'
she de-'
aance,
0 rd

lWered nothing on the eastern side of the river.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

299

IEFoster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

.The history of the iitle of the United States to Lotisiana
.will illustrate and confirm th views which'.have been exhibited in this investigation.
In' 1795 .the United States made .their treaty with France.
Difficulties soonafter arose on the subject ofthe 'navigation
of the Mississippi, and the peae of the two- countries was
in danger from these difficulties. In'1801 or 1802, we hard
of the transfer of Louisiana toFrance, and we.were alarhied
at the prospect of the armies of a powerful and..suec essful
nationlanding in.out, neighbourhood.
Before it was known that France had become the bwier
of Louisiana, we 'were.anxious to obtain- Florida:; but" as
soon as this;became known every effort was'directed to, purchase- Louisiana from France, "or
so much of'it. as would
secure to the flourishing and enterpri.sing western popula.tion of our c6untry, the free use of~ th magnificent rive'r
Mississippi,-their rightby ll the laws of nature. The treaty
of April IS03 gave, the whole of -Louisiana- to the-United
States ; that treaty reciting'the' treaty of San,Lorenzo. ,,
Howdid we receive the acq'ife.d territory . Did we, then
suppose we had obtained any thing east of the Mississippi
When Claiborne and Wilkinson'took possession -they,received Louisihna, extending" only, as 'asserted by the .,appellants; and they asked for,no more.'
Mr Chief Justice MARsHALL. delivered the opinioh 6ffthe
.This suit was brought by the .plaintiffs in error,'iithe
court of the United'Stt'es, for- the eastern distric't of L6uisiiana, to recover a tract of land lying in th-,t. di'strict, about
thirty miles-east of the Mississippi,. and- in the posses.ion6f
the-.defendant. The plaintiffs 6laimed under a- grant 'fo'r
40,000 arpents of land, made by the Spanish go'vern6r, on
the 24 of January 1804,ito Jayme Joydta and ratified by the
kingOf.Spain ,on, the,29th'of May 1804. 'The petition a"id
order-of survey are dated-in.Septdmbe'- 1803, andt the reu'trin
of the' survey itself-was,m'ade -on- th 2'7th '6" Octbe ini'th
.ame year. '-The defendant 'ex'di6ted to the petition of' th&
plaintiffs, alleging thit itv oes 'not howl, a 'title
Whiph

Soo

SUPREME COURT
[Foster & Ela

vs. Neilson.]

they can.recover ;,that the territpry, within which the. land
claimed is situated, had been ceded,, before the grant, to
France, and by France to the United States; and -that the
grant is void, being made by. persons 'who had no' authority
to make it. The court sustained. the exception, and dismissed the petition. ' The cause is brought beforb this Court by
a, writ of error.
The case presents this very intricate, and at one time
very-interesting question: To whom did the. country between
the Iberville and the .Perdid6 -rightfully belong,- when the
title.now 4.serted by the plaiitiffs was acquired ?
This question has been repeatedly discussed with great
talent-and research, by the governmert of the United States
and .that of Spain. The, United. Statas have perseveringly
and earnesily insisted, 'that. b ' the treaty of St Ildefonso,
made on, the 1st of October in the year 1800, Spain ceded
the disputed territory as part of Louisiana to France; and
,that France, by the treaty of Paris, signed, on the 30th of
April 1803, and ratified ori the 21st of October in the same
year, ceded it to the United States. - Spain has with equal
perseverance and earnestness *maintained,-that her cession
to France comprehended ' that territory only which was at
that time denominated Louisiana, consisting of the-island of
New Orleans, and the country she received from France
west .of the Mississippi.
Without tracing the title of France to its origin,.we'may
state with confidence that at the commencement of the war
"of 1756, she was. the undisputed, possessor of the province of
Louisiana, lying on both sides th- Missigsippi, and extend:
ing eastward beyond the bay of Mobile. ' Spain was at the
same time. in-p6ssession of Florida; and it is understood that
the river -Perdido separated the two provinces from each
"
other.
Such was the state of lossession and, title at the ireaty of
Paris, concluded between Great Britain, France, 'and Spain,
on the, i0th day of February'1763.. By that treaty France
ceded to Great Britain tho river and port of the'Mobile, and
all her, possessions on the left side, of the: river Mississippi,
except the .town of New Orleans and the island on which it
-

JANUARY TERI& 1829.
[Foster &.Elam ts. Neilson.] -

is situated : and by the same" treaty 'Spain ceded. Florida to
GreatBritain. The residue of Louisianawas ceded by France
to. Spain, in a.sepaiat6 and secret treaty between those two
powers. The king*. of Great Britain being thus the 'ckno-ledged-sovereign of the whole country east of'the'-Mississip-.
pi, except the island of New Oileansidivided his late "acqisition in, the. south into two provinces, East'and West
Florida. The latter'comprehended-so much of thd ctntry
ceded by France as lay south of the 31st degree .f north 1ktitude, and a part pf-that ceded by -Spain.
-By the treaty of. peace between C--reat Britain and Spain,
signed at -Versailles on the.3d -of September 1783,.treat
Britain ceded East and West Florida to' Spain: and .'ihos
provinces continued to be-known and governed by tho~e
names,.as -long as they remained in the possession and -undar,
the dominion of his catholic'majesty.
'.Or;. the 1st df October in. the. year1800,i a seciet. treaty
was epncluded between France:.'and Spain :at St Ildefcnsd,
the third article of which is-.in these words: = ".H catholie'
majesty promises and engages on his' part to ,retrodede -to
the Fre.nch 'republic,-sii mohths"after the full and' enure
execution :6f Ihe conditions and stipulations relative ;to his
royal highness the duke of Pdrma, the colony or provine6bf
Louisianai with the same extent that it now has in'the haride
of Spain, and that it had when France possessed it, and siih
as it-:shu ld be. after the treaties subsequenitly entered'into
between Spain and th6 other statds."
' The. treaty -ofthe B0th of'April 1803, by which the.:United
States acquired Louisiana, after reciting .this article, proceeds to state, that "the- first consul of the French republic
doth' hereby cede to the. United States, in the name of' the'
French republic, forever and. in full sovereignty, the said
territory with' all its -rights and' appurtenances as fully and
in the same manneias they hWve been acquired by theFrencl'"
republic, in virtue -of-thd above mentioned treaty concludeti
with his catholic majesty."' The- 4th article stipulates that
'; thefe shall be sent by.the g6vernment of France a cbommissary to Louisiana, to the end that he do every act fecesAaiy, as well to- receive from 'tie officers' of his catholic

302

SUPREME ,COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neliron-]

majestythe said country, and its dependencies, in 'th~ename
of-the French republic, if -it has not been already done, as
,t6 transmit it in the name of the- French republic to the
commissarv or agent of the United States."
On the. 30th o November. 1803. Peter-Clement.Laussatt,
colonial prefctand- ommissionex'of the' French :republic;
authorisd, by full powers dated,'the 6th of June 1803, toieceive the surrexider of theprovince -of Louisiana, presented
.seppwers to-Don,Manudl Salcedo. governor of Louisiana
and West Florida, and to the marquis de Casa Calvo, com.
missioners on: the part of- Spain, together With full powers
to them from his catholic majesty to make the surrender.
.These-full powers were dated at Barcelona the 15th of Oc-taber. 1802. 'The act of surrender declares that in virtue of
-these full powers, the Spanish 6ommissioners, Don ManuelSalcedo and the, marquis -de. Casa, Calvo, "put -from this
moment the aid French commissioner, the citizen Laussatt,
in posses'ion of the co'ony Of Louisiana and of its depexidencies, as also of the town and island of New Orleans, in
-the s am 'extent which-they now have, and-vhich' they had
'in the hands of France vhn she ceded them to the royalcrown- of Sphin, and such as they should be after the treaties
-subseq'udntly ' entered into between the states of his cath6lti
rfiajesty and those of other powers."
The following is -an extract from, the.order of the king of .
Spain referred to. bi the commissioners-'in the- act of, delivery.- "Don Carlos, by the grace of God, &c." "Deeming it convenient, to retrocede to the French republic the
colony. and, province of -Louisiana, I order you, as soon 'as
.the present order shall be presented to you by general Victor or other officer duly authorisedby ihe French iepublic,
to take charge of said delivery; you will -put him in possession of the colony of Louisiana and .ts dependencies,as also.
ofthe-city and. island of New'Orleans,,with the same exteni
that it now has, that it. had in the -hands of F'ance when she
ceded jttq'my royal crown, and such as-it ought to be after'
the treaties 'which have successivelytaken place" betweep
py states ahd those of.other powers."
Previous' to the arrivaof the .French Zommissioner, the

-

-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elanm vi. Neftsoh.]

governor of jhe provinces -of .Louisiana and West Florida,
and' the marquis de Casa Calvo, had issued their proclimatiop, dated'the 18th bf May 1803; in which they-say, "his
majesty having-before his eyes the obligdtions.imposed by
tde treaties, and desirous of av6idiig any disputes that might.
airisei has deigned to resolve that the delivery of the colony
and island of,-WNw Orleans,.which-is to be made to the general of division Victor, or such- other officer as may be -legally
aufhorised by'the government of the French republib, shall
he executed on the, samreterms that Frarice ceded it to his.
majesty; in virtue of which, the limits of both 'shores of ihe
river. St 'Louis. or' Mississippi, shall remain as they were
irrevocab.ly fixed.- by the 7h article, of the defini'tivetreaty;
of.-peace; concluded at Paris the'10th of-February 1'763;
according.tao which the settlenients from the 'river Manshac
orIberville,.to the line which separates the American territory fror the dominions of the king, remain in. possession of
Spain and' afinexed ibWest Florida."
On the 21st of' October 180S, congress passed. an act to
enable t6 president to take possessibn ofthe tefritory cededby France to the Unit-d States:: in putsuance of which-c ihmissioners were appointed, to whom Monsieur taussatt, the
commissinfier ofTihe'Frehch republic, surrendered New.[Orleans and the province of Louisiana on the'2thof" December 1803. The surrender was made'in general terms; but
no actual possession was taken of the teritory lying-east of
Newr Orleans.. The government of the United States, hlow 7
ever, soon. manifested the'- opinion that the whole country
originally held by'Frdnce, and belonging toSpain wh'en tie
treaty of St'IlIe'fonso- was conchidedi was by that treaty'ri-'
troceded -w France.
On the 24th of February 1804, congress passed an act for
laying and collectin~g duties wiithin the ceded territories,
which authorised the president, whenever he shouId'deemit expedient, toerect -the shores, &c. of the bay and river'
Mobile, and of the'other iivers , creeks, &c. emptying in'to.
the gulph of Mexico east of the said river -Mobile, and west
thereof to'the Pascagoula inclusive, into a-separate district,
and to establiih a.-port of entry and- delivery therein. The-

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs.Neilson.]

port established in pursuance Of thisact was at fort Stoddert,
•within'. the acknowledged jurisdiction of the United States;
and this circumstance appears. to have been offered as a sufficient answer to the subsequent rembnstrances of Spain

against.the measuie.

It must be considered, not as acting

on the territory, but as ifidicating -the American exposition
of the.treaty, and -exhibiting the claim its government intended to, assert
.Inthe same 'session, on the 26th of March 1804i congress
passed an act erecting Louisiana into two territories. This
act declares that the country Ceded by France to the United
States south of the Mississippi teiritory, and south of an east
and "westline, to commence on the Mississippi' river at the

33d, degree of north -latitude and run west to the western
%boundaryof the cossion, shall constitute a territory under
the name of the territory of Orleans. 'Now the Mississippiterritory extended to the 31st. degree of north latitude, and
the couitr' south of that tqrritbry was necessarily the country which Spain held a5 West Florida; but still its constitifting a pait of the territoryQf Orleans depends on the fact
that it was a part of the country ceded by France to the
Unitod States., No practical application of the laws ofithe
United States to this part of the .territory was atiempted,
nor could be made, while the country remained inthe actual
power.
possession of a fqreign
The 14th section enacts "that all grants for lands within.
the territories ceded by the Fiench republic to the United
States by the treaty of the 30th of, April"180, the title
whereof was at the date-of thq treaty of St Ildeibonso in the.
crown, government, or nation of Spain, and ever.y act and
proceeding subsequent ihereto of whatsoever nature towardsthe obtaining any grant, title or claim to such lands, nnd
under whatsQever authority transacted or pretended, be, and
the same are hereby declared to, bei and to have been. from
the beginning, null, void, and of no effect in law or equity. '
A proviso excepts the titles of actual settlers acquired before
the 20th of December 1803, from the operation of this sec tion. It 'was obviously intended. to. act on all grants made
by Spain. after her -retrocession of Louisiana to France, and

JANUARY TERM 1829.
EFoster & Elam'vs. Neilson.]

without deciding on the extent of that retrocession, to put.
the titles:which might. be thus'aequired througfi't.he .'-hole
territory, whatever might be its extent, completely uno_. the
control 6f the American government;
'The president was:a'uthorised' to appoint registers or-recorders ,of lands *acquired Under the Spanish and Frenchgovernmentsi and boards of commissioners -who should receive all claims to lands, and hear and dptermine in a'surnmulry way all matters respecting such claims. Their proceedings were to be reported to the secretary of the.treasury, to
be laid before congress for the final decision of that body.
' Previous to th'e-acquisitioi of Louisiana, the
ministers of
ihe United States had been instructed to endeavour to obtain the Floridas from. Spain.: After that acquisition, this
object was still pursued, aiid'the friendly aid of the Wench.
government towards its'attainment was requested. On the
suggestion of Mr Talleyrand that the time was unfavourable,.
the design was suspended. The government of the United
States however soon resumed its purpose; and the settlement of the boundaries of Louisiana was blended with the
purchase of the Floridas, and the adjustmeilt of heavy claims
made by the United States for American property, condenined in the lorts-of Spain during the var which was
terminated -by the treaty, of Amiens.
.
On his way to Madrid, Mr-Monroe, who was empowered
in conjunction with Mr Pinckney,. the American minister at
•the court of his catholic majesty, -to conduct the negotiation, -passed ,through Paris ; and addressed" a letter to the.
minister of exterior relations, in which he detailed the objects of his mission, and his views respec.ting the boundaries.
of L6uisiana. In his answer to this lettet, dated the 21st of
December 1904,- Mr Talleyrand declared, in decided'terms,
that by the treaty of St Ildefoinso, Spain retroceded toFrance nb part of the territory east of the Iberville which
had been held .and known as West Florida; and that in all,
'the negotiations between the two governments, Spain. had
'constantly refused to cede any part . of the Floridas, even
from the Mississippi.to the Mobile. lie addd .that he. was
authorized byhis imperial majesty.to say, that at. the beVOL. lI.-P O

-306

UPREME COURT..
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

.ginning of 'the year 1602, general 'Bournionville had been
charged to open a new negotiation with Spain for the acquisition of'the Floridas; but this project'had not beenfol19wed by a treaty.
Had France and Spain agreed *pon the b0undaries of the'
retroceded territory before Louisiana was acquired by the
United States,' that agreement would thdoubtedly have ascertained its limits., But the declarations of France made
after parting with the provincecanrot be admitted as conclusive. In quistions of this.character, political considerations have too much ,influence over the conduct of nations,
to permit their declarations to decide the-course of an independent government id a matter vithlly interesting to itself.
I Soon after the arrival of Mr Monroe at his place of destination, the negotiations commenced at Aranjuez. Every
word in that article: of the treaty of St Ildefonso which
ceded Louisiana -to France, was scanned by the ministers
on both sides with all, the critical a'cumenA which talents and
zeal -could bring into their service. Every argumet drawn
from collateral circumstances, .connected iyith the subject,
which could be -supposed to elucidate it, was exhausted.
No advance towards an arrangement was made, and thenefotiation termin'ated, leaving each party firm in his original
opinion and purpose. Each persevered in maintaining the
construction with which he had commenced. .The.discussion. has since been resumed between the iwo nations with
as much ability.and with as little success. The question has
been again argued at this bar, with the same talent and research which, it has uniformly called forth. Every topic
which relates to it has been c6mpletely exhausted- and the
Court by reasoning on the subject could'only repeat. what is
familiar to all!
'We shall say -nly, that the language of the article may
admit of either construction, and it is scarcely possible to
consider'the, arguments'on either side, without believing
that they proceed from a 6onviction of their truth. The
phrase on which the controversy mainly depends,.that Spain.
retrocedes Louisiana with' the same extent that it had when
France possessed it, might so readily have bedn expressed

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elam s. Neilson.]

-

in plain language, that it is difficult to'resist the persuasion
that the ambiguity wvas intentional.-, Had Louisidna been.
retroceded with the same extent- that it.had when France
ceded it to Spain, or With the same extent that.it had'before
the cession -of any part of it to England; no contro'ersy
respecting its limits could have "arisen: Had, the, parties
co-acurred'in thieir intention, a p!aii -mode of-expressing
that intention would- -have presented- itself- to- .them. But
Spain hbs always manifested infinite repugnance to the surrender of territory,, and was probably'unwilling to give back
more than she had received. The introduction of .atrbiguous phrases into -thetreaty, which- power -might afterwards,
construe according to7 circumstances, was a measure which
the strong
dnd- the politic might riot, be disinclined to employS. ,
:- .
However this may be, it %is,we-think, 'incontestablb, that
the American construction of the'article, if not entir'ely free
from'question, is supported by arguments of great strength.
which cannot be easily confuted.
In-a controvefsy between twjo nations concerning national
boundary, it is scarcely possible -that the 'courts of: either
should refuse to abide by the measures adopted' by its,own
government. There being no common - tribunal, to decide;
between themn, each determines -for itself on its own.rights,
and-if they cannot" adjust their differences- peaceably, thg
right remains with-the strongest.., The judiciary is not that
department of'the -goVernment, to which the assertion of its
interests against. ,foreign -powers is .confided;- and its, duty
commonly isto decide upoh indivilual rights, -according to
those principles. which -the p6litical departments.of-the nation haive established. ' If'the courseof the nation has been.
- plain one,' its-coutrs -would hesitate to pronounce it erroneous.
We think then, however-individual judges-might construe
the treaty-of St;ldefons6, it is the- province -of the Court to
conform its decisions -iothe will'of the legislature, if that
will has.been cOearly.expressdd,
-The convulsed state of European Spain, affetted her influience-over her colchijes; and a"degree bf disorder pfevailed.

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster &cElam vs. Neilson.]

in the Fl6ridas, at which the United States could not-look
with indifference. In October 1810, the president issued
his proclamation, directing the governor of the Orleans ter-"
ritory to take possessiori of the country as far east, as. the
Perdido, and to hold it for the United States. This measure
was avowedly intended as an assertion' of the, title of'tbe
United State;; but as an. assertion, which was rendered necessary in order to-avoid evils'which might contravene th6
wishes of both parties, arid lhhi6h w6uld.still'leave the territory "a subject of fair and friendly negotiation and.adjustment."
-In April 1812, congress passed ""an adt to enlarge the
limits of the state of Louisiana." This act -describes lines
which' comprehend'the lapd in c6ntroversy, .anddeclares that
the country, inclu'ded within them sh'all become and form, apI~art of the state of Louisiana.
In May of the same y~air; another act was passed,.anneing 'the -residue' of the country west, of. the Pe'dido 'to' the"
"Mississippi territory.
Add in February 181, the president'was authorized "to
occupy and hold all that tract of country called West Florida, whichiies west of the rivbr Perdidoi not now'in possessiori of the United States.-"
. On the third of March 1817, congress ere6ted that.part ofFlorida which had been annexed to the Mississippi territory,
into. a separate territory, calldd -Alabama..
'The powers- of'government were extended to, ana e.er-'
cised jn those parts of West Florida which composed a part
of Louisiana and Mississippi, respectively , and a separate
.government was erected in Alabama., U. S..L. c-,4, .409.
In'. March 1 9, "c6ngrqss passed an act to enable the
people of.Aabamato form.a 'constitution and tate government." . And in December 1819, she'was admitted inio the
union, .anddbclared one of the United States of Amprica.
The treaty of amity, settlenent. and, limits; 'between the'
United States 'and Spain, was signed at Washington on -'he
22d day of February 1819, but was not ratified by Spain till
the 24th d y of October' I820j nor by the United-States,"
until- the !2d,.day.,of February 181: So thatAlaba-ma was.,

JANUARY TERM, 129.
[Foster & Elam vs, Neilson.]

admitted into the union as an independient- state, in'virtue of
under"
the title acquired by the United Statesto her.territory
the treaty of April I S03..
After these acts of sovereign power over thA territory in
dispute', asserting the American construction of the treaty.
by which the government claims it, to -maintain the opoosite
construction in its own courts would certainly be an anomaly
-in the history and practice of natjons. If those departments
whi-ch are entrusied with-the foreign intercourse. of the nation, which assert and. inaintaih its -interests against'foreig.
powers, have unequivoclly dsserted its rights of dominion
over a- country of which, it is in possession,. and which it
claim'under a',jreaty; if the legislature has. acted on.the'
constfuetion thus usserted, it is not in "its6wn courts that
this 6onsiruetion ji to be denied. A-, question like- this. respecting the boundaribs of nations, is, as has been'truly -said,
more a political, ihan alegal'question ; and in its diseussiqn,
the courts of every country must respect the p'ronounced
will' of the legislature. Had this suit been iihsttt.uted'immediately after the passage of the act.for extending the bounds
6f-Louisiana, could -the Spanish constructibn .of thie ireaty:
of Si'Ildefonso have'been maintained . :-Could the plaintif
have insisted that -the land. did hot lie in Louisiana, liut 'ii
West Flo.rida; that the occupation of the country by'the
United Stateg was wr6ngful; and that his title under a Sp anish
grant mustprevail, because the'acts of congfess on the. subjelt"were founded on a misconstrudtion of thd, treaty 7 .If
it be said; that this'statement does not present the queidn
fairly.; because- a plaintiff admits the'authority of the 'Court;
let the parties ber changed. - If-the Spanish grantee had obtained' possession so as to be the' defendant, would .a Courtof the United States main'tain.his title undea
a'ish grnt,"
made subsequent to the acquisition of Louisiana, singly d.
the piinciple that the Spanish- construction of the treaty, of
St' "Ildefoniso .was --right.; and. thb American, construction
wronlii
Such'a 'decision would,.we think,:hav e 'subverted.
those principles which gocvern .tie,relations between tbe-l6.gisldtive' and judicial departmeits, -and'nmaik the limits,'of
each..

310

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.)

If the right6 of the parties are in any deg'e; changed, that
chage must.be produced by the subsequent arrangements
made.between the-two governments.
-A "treaty of amity, settlement, and linfits, between the
United States .ofAmerica and th- king of Spain," was sign-:
ed at Washington on the 92d day of February 1819. ' Bythe ;d, article " his- catholic maijesty cedes -to the United
States in full'properfy ind sovereignty, 'all the territories.
which belong to him, situated to the eastward-of the Mississippi, known-by the name of East and:West Florida."
.,,The 8th arti6le" stipulates, that "all. the grants of land,
mad&'before the 24th of January 1818 by his catholic majesty,. or by his lawful authori)ies, in the said territories ceded
by his majesty to the-United States, shall be ratified and
confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands, to-the
sdine extent, that the sapie. grans -wouldbe valid if the territoties had'-remained' under the dominion of his'catholio
majesty."
The -Court will not attempt to conceal the difficulty which
is created by ihese articles.
-It
is well known that Spain had uniformly maintained.er
"conttruction of t'he treaiy of St Ildefonso.-lHis caiholic.
majesty had per.everingly -insisted that no part of West
Floiida. had been Ceded by that treaty, arid that the whole
couptry_ which had-been -known by that name still belonged
tolhim. •Itis then -a fair in'ference from the language of the
treaty, that he did. not -mean to retrace his. steps, and .relin*quish his pretensions; but to'cede on a sufficient coniideritioi all that he had-claimed as his; and consequently, byth
8th artfel, to stipulate for theconfirimation of all those grants.
-vhich-he'had made whilethe title remained in hir.
But the Uhited 'States had-,uniformly denied the titlQ 'set;
up by the 'crown -of 'Spain; had insisted- that a prt of' Wist
Florida had been tiansferred to. Francee by the trehty of $t
Ildefonso; and. ceded to' th.e United States by'the treaty, of
April 1803 , had asserted this constructiowb .taking itual
possemaion'of -the counfiy; and had extended its' leislstion"
6ver it.' The UVnited, States:.therefore cannot be understood
to.have -admitted.that this countr-y:belnnged to his catholic-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
S[Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

majesty, or that it lpassed 'from him to them -by-this article.;
iTld his catholic majesty ceded to the United- Stateg "*all
the territories situated to the eastward .of-the. Mississippi
oknowri by the name of East -aid West Florida;'! 'omittipg
the words "which belong to him,"'the United States in
receiving this -cession,. might have sanctioned the right to
make it, and might -haime been -bound.toi consider the,.8th
artic!e q§ co-ex.tensive with the second. Thstipilation of
the 8th article might have been construed W be ai. dmlssion.tbat-West Florida to its full extent .'as 'ceded by-this'

treaty.
But the insertioi of.these words materially affects the
construction of the article,- They cannot be rejected as
surplusage. They have- a plain meaning, and that meaning..
can be"no other than to limit.the' extent of the'rssion..We"
cannQt-ky they were inserted ca'relessly or unadvisedly, antd
mti-s' understand tiem ac'cording to tieir. bviqus import.
It is not improbable that terms were selected which might
not .cmpromise tfie dignity of eith6r gQvernment-, and which
each' might understa~d, consistently with its former pretensions.. But i'f a court of'the United States-would .hav6 been'
bou't, under the state of thing@ existing at the signtro of
the' treaty, to consider thle territory. then -composing a part
of the state of&Louisiana as" rightfully belonging .A the,
United- States, it would .be difi

tdfi. to 'Conistrui this article

ito'an, admission jtht.(t - belojed rightfully to-his catholic

mi e..y.'

TW60th artidle of the'treaty maybe- considered.in.connexion with the second. -The 6th -stipulates "that the :in,.
habitats of-tle'territories which'his 'ctholic majesiy cedes
to the Unijed -States by this .treaty, shall be-incorporated~in
ihe-union of'the lUnited States, as soon as may.be coiisistent
with-the principles of the federal constitution."
This article, according to its obvious import, exfeild to
the whole, territory which was ceded. The stipulation 'foi
the-incorporation of the inhabitants of the ceded territory
into the union, is co-extensive with the' cessioi. But the'
country in which the I-and in controversy lies,,was already
inco'rporated into the union. It composed a part of the

SUPREME COURT.
, [Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

stiite of Louisiana, which,.was already a member of the
American confederacy.
A part of West Florida-lay east of the Perdido: and to
that the right of liis'catholic majesty w'as acknowledged.
There was then an ample subject on which the words of the
cession might operate, without discarding those which limit
'its general expressions.
Such is..the construction which the Court would put on
the treaties by which the United States have acquired 'the
country east of New Orleans. But an -explanation of the
8th article sedms to have been given by the parties which
may vary this construction.
It was discovered that three lhrge grants, which had been
s upposed.at the signatjire of the treaty to have been made
.subsequent'to the 24th 'ofJanuary 181.8, 'bore. a date anterior to that period. Considering these grants as fraudulent,
the United States insisted on an express declaration annulling' them. This demand was resisted by Spain; and the
ratification of .the treaty was for some time suspeided. At
'length his catholic majesty yielded, and thefollowing clause
was introduced. into his ratification- "desirous, at the same
time, of avoiding any 'doubt or ambiguity concerning, the
-meaning of the 8th~ article-of the "treaty, in respect to the
date which is pointed out in it as the.period for theconfirmaion! of the.grants of lands in the Floridas made by me,
or by ne competent authorities in my 'royal name, which
-point of date was fixed in the positive understanding of the
'three grants, of land made in favour of.the duke of Alagon,
cojut of Punon Rostro, and -DonPedro de Vargas, being
the,
annulled
by its tenor; I'thirjk 'it proper to deilbe, that
the
_said three'granis have remained and do remain entirely an'ulled and invalid; and..that -neither the three'qndividuals
mentioned, 'nor those who'may have title or interest through
theni, can avail themselves qof'the said grants at any time or
* in'any manner; under which explicit declaration, the said
.8th article is to be- understood. as. iatLfied." One of these
grants, that t6 Vargas, lies west iq -the Perdido.
It has been argued, an d with. grqeaforc&, 'that-this explanation forms a' part of the 'artic1, "_it n*ak be ,coisidered

JANUARY TERM- 1829.
(Foster & Elam vs. Neilson.]

as if introduced into it as iiprovigo or exception -o the stipulation, in favour of grants'anterior to the 24th ofJantiary
1818.: The article may be hinderstood as if. it had beeri
written, that "all the, grants of-laid made before'the 24th
of January 1818, by his catholic majesty br his lawfuraiuthorities in the said territories, ceded by his majesty to -the
United States, (except those made to th1duke of Alagon.,
the count o fPunon Rostro and.D*onPedro de Yargas,)shall
be ratified and confirmed, &c."
Had this been the form of the original article,'itwoifd bLdifficult to resist the construction that the excepted. gtnts
were withdrawn from it by the exception, arid would otherwise have been within iis provisibns: .Con~equentlythat.all:
other fair grants within the -tirie. specilfed, wdre, as-obli'ga
.tory on the United States, as -on his catholic majesty.One other judge and myself are inclined to. adopt this
opinion. The majority of the Courf however thifik'differently. They suppose that these three large grants being
made about the same time,, under circumstances strongly
indicative, of unfairness, "and two of them lying east of.the
Perdido, might be objected to on the- ground of frahd common to them all :without implying any opinion, that one of
.them, which.was for- lands lying within the United States,
and most probably in pari'sold .by the government,'-could
have been otherwise confirmed. The government- might.
well insist on closing all.,
future controversy relating to thelsi
grants, which might so. materially interfere with its own
rights and policy in its future disposition of the ceded lands;
and not allow them to become the subject of judicial ihlvestigation; while other grants, though 'deemed by it'to be invalid, might be left to the ordinary course 'of the law.
The form of the ratification ought not, in their opinion, . to
change the natural copstruction of the words of the 8th
article, or extend them':to embrace grants not otherwise 'intended tr. be confirmed by it. -Anextreme solicitude to
provide against injury or inconvenience, from the knownexistence of such large grants, by insisting upon a declaration of iheir absolute nullity, can in their opinion -furiish,no
satisfactory. proof that the government meant to recognise
VOL.. II.-2 P

-314.

SUPREME COURT
L[Fosier. &'Elam vs. Neilson.]

the small grants -"asvalid, which in every previous act and
struggld it had proclaimed to be void, as being for lands
withiri the American. territory.
Whatever difference -may, exist respecting the effectof the
IatificatiQp,- in "whiAtevr sense. it may be ,understood, we
thinkihe 4ound-..construction of theighth article will n6t
eiable this Court to apply its ,provi'sions to the present case.
The words of the article are, that. " all the grants of land
wade before the 24th *of anuary 1818, by his catholic ma-.
jesty, &c. shall bedratifipd and, .confirmed to the persons in
possession of,the lands,.-to - the same extent that. the same
grants would be valid if the territories, had remained under
the dominion of.his catholic majesty..' Do these words: act
directly on, the grants, so as to give:validity to those- not
otherwise valid; or do they 'pledge the faith of -the United
States. to pass acts which'shall ratify and confirnr'them '.
,A .treaty-is.in its nature -a'contract between two nations,
not a legislative act. It does not generally effet, of itself,
the object to be accormplished) -especially so faras its operation'-is infr-teriitorial $.but. is carried' into execution by
the sovereign, power of. the respective parties to the instrument.
In.the United' .tates a.'different principle. is established;
Our constitution declares a treaty -to be the law of the land,.
It 'ii, consequently, .to be regarded incourts of justice as
-equiialent to an pt 9 f the legislature, When6ver it operates
of itself without the aid of' any legislative proVision. But
when the terms.of the'sipulation import a'contract, when
either of the parties engages to perform a partic.ular act, the
treaty addresses itself to. the political,' not'the judieial. department; -and the legislature must -execute the 'contract
before it can.become a iule for the Court.
The article under.consideration does not declare that all
'the grants nwade.by his catholic majesty before the 24th of
January. 18 18, shall'. be alid to the same extent as if the
ceded territories had remaiied under his dominion. It does
lqot sar that those grants are hereby confirmed. 'Had such
been its langtage, it would have acted directly on the subject, and would have repealed those adts of congress which

JANUARY TER

.A
'182-1

[Foster & Man vs. Neilsonj

were repugnant to iU but it§ inguage'is that those gantg
shall .beratified and confirmed to th6 .per~ons, in possession,.
&c. By whom shall'they be ratfied and coifirmed. "Thii
seems to be the language'of cbntiact; andift is, the ratification- and confirmation which are.piomised must. be the
act of the. legislature. Until such -actShall be passed; the
Court is not at Iibprty to disregard 'the existing laws bi the
subject. •Congress appears to have 'understood. ,.this' artile
as'it s understood by the Court. Boards of'commnissioners,
have been appointed for East andi"West Florda, to receive
.ilaims:for lands'; and on their reports:titles to'lands 'not eteeeding'
'acres have*been confirmea,, and to.a very
large arount On the 23d of May 1628, an act was .pasIse'd
supplemdntaty to the several acts. providing for -the*settlement- and'confirmation of private 'lahd 'claims 'in 'Florida;
the 6th section .of which enats;' that dll claims'to land
within the territory of Florida, embraced by -the- treaty ;between Spain and the-Ufited Siates. of the 22d of February
1819,.which shall not b'e decided and finally sdttled under
the foregoing. proisions of.this. act, containing a greater
quantity of land than the commissioners were authorized to
dpeide, and which have not' been reported as antedited, or
forged, &c., shall be received 'and-adjiidicated by the judge
of' th6 stiperior' court of -the-district within.which t'h6'-land
lies,,upon 'the petition- 'of -the claimnt," &c ' Provided,
that n'othing iithis section shall be-donstrued to enabi the
judges to take .cognizance of any'claim annulled by-the
said 'treaty,. or the decree ratifying the same by. the. kin' of
Spain, not any.claim not presented to the commissioners or
register and receiver. Aa 'appeal is allowed from' the decisioa of the judge of the district to this. Court. 'No such act
of confirmation' has' been extended to grantsfor land-, lying
west of the Perdido.
The act of 1804, erectiig Louisiana -into two territories,
has been already mentioned. It annuls'all grants for lands
in the ceded territories, the title whereof was at the date of
the treaty of St Ildefonso in the'crown of Slain. The grant
in. controversy is not brought within any of' the exceptions
from the'enacting clause.

316

SUPREME COURT.
[Foster & Elam vs. N~eiison.]

"The legislature has passed many subsequent acts previous
to the treaty of 1819, the object of which was-to adjust the
titles to lands in the country acquired by the treaty of 1803.
They cautiously confirm to residents all incomplete titles
to lands, for which a warrant or order of survey had- been
obtained previous to the 1st of October 1800.
An act, passed ii April 1814, confirms incomplete titles
to lands in the state of Louisiana, for which a warrant-ororder of survey had been -granted prior to-the 20th of December 1803, where the claimant or the person under whom
lie claims was-a itsident of the province. of Louisiana on
.that day, or at the date of the concession, warrant, or order
of iuivey; and where the tract does not exceed 640 acres.
This act -extends to, those caseg only which had been reported by the board, of commiss.oners; and annexes to the
confirmation several conditions, which it .is unnecessary to
review, because the plaintiff does not claim to come Within
the provision§ of -the act.
On the 3d of-March 1819, congress passed an act confirming all complete grants to land from the Spanish government, contained in the repoits made by the commissioners
.Appointed by the president for the purpose of adjusting titles
which had been deemed valid by the commissioners; and
also all the claims reported -as aforesaid, founded on any
order of survey, requete, permission 'tQ settle, or any written
evidenre of claim derived from the Spanish authorities, which
ought in the opinion of the commissioners to be confirmed;
-

*

and which by the said reports-appear to be derived from the

Spanili government before the 20th day of December 1803,
and the land claimed to have been cultivated or inhabited
"on or before that day.
Though the order of survey in this case was granted beforethe-20th of December 1803, the plaintiff doesnot bring
himself withiri this act.
Subsequent acts have.passed in 1820, 1822 and 1826, but
-they only confirm claims "approved bh the commissioners,
arriong which ihe plaintiff doe's not allege his to have been
placed.
Congress has reserved to itself the supervision of the titles

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Foster & Elam i.s. Neilson.]

reported by its commissioners, and has confirmed those
which the cominissioners have approved, but has p'assed'no
law, withdrawing 'grants generally for lands west -of ihe
Perdido frdm the operation of the .14th section of the act of
1804, or repealing that section.
W6 are of opinion then, that the court committed no error
in dismissing the petition of the. plaintiff, and that the judg-.
ment ought to be affirmed with. costs.

This cause came on,to be heard on the'transcript of the
record from the district. court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana, and was. argued by'counsel;
on consideration wherebf, this Court. is of opinion that the
said district court committed no error in dismissing the petition of the plaintiffs; 'therefore it is 'bonsidere'd; ordered
and adjudged by this-Court, that the judgment of the said
district court in this cause be. and the same is hereby affirmed with -costs.

