JANUARY TERM 1829.

TRm PfE&:DExT, DIRECTos.AND ComANY oF THE BANK OF THE
UUTED STATE., ArPPLLAM Ts vs. DANIEL WEIsIGEt, AaBLLEE.
This Court has decided that a suit could be'maintained in equity., by the boldei
of an indorsed note, against a rejmote indorser; and upon grounds perfectly
famili.ar to courts exercising'equity jurisdiction.
It has beed decided in Kentucky, that a suit at law could not b6 maintained in
that state by the indorsee, against a remote indorser. The conclusion'then
results'from our own decisions,that he must be let into equity; for an ind~rsement is certainly no release to the previous indorsers end the ultimate assignee
alone islentited to the benefit of theirliability. -And this we understand to be
consistent with the received opinions and practice in Kentucky. [349]
The law in Kentucky is settled, as it is in Virginia and in this Court; that upon
Virginia contracts by indorsement of promissory notes, every reasonable effort
must be made to recover of the drawer by suit, before the assignee can -have
recourse against the assignor or indorser.
It is upon the question, what constitutes such diligehce, that all the difficulties
arise in suits upon these contracts. And'certainly this Court cannot be called
upon to carry the obligations imposed upon assignees on this point, furtlier than
the Atate courts have already extended them. [348]
What will be considered a sufficient compliance with the requisitions of the laws
of Kentucky, imposing diligence in the prosecution of a suit against the drawer
of a 4ote, by the indorsee, in order to charge a prio indorser.
The discharge of an insolvent under the .'statutes, is the most satisfactory evidence of insolvency. -Aftersuch discharge, it is not required that process 'of
execution shall be issued against the party, in order tq conform to the injunc.
%
tion of diligence. * [349]
The 2d,'3d and 4th sections of the act of January 6, 1800, entitled an act for
the relief of persons imprisoned for debts," make provision for the discharge of
.persons confined under execution; and the 5th section eatends "the privileges
and relief" .of that act, to persons in confinement, against whom judgment is
obtained, but no execution issued. Under the provisions in faVour ofpersons
charged in execuuon, on the day of arrest, a- notice may be -served upon the
peison at whose suit thiy are confined; and at the end of thirty-days, they
may be discharged. By the. 5th section it is enacted, 11that any person imprisoned upon process issuing from ny court of the United States, except at
the suit of the United States, in any civil action, against whom judgment has
been or shall be recovered; shall be entitled to the privileges and relief provided by this act, after the expiiaton of thirty days from the time such judgment has been or-shall be recovered; though the creditor should not within
that time sue out his execution, and charge the debtortherewith."
It has been argued that under this section, the [efendant must remain in prison
.thirty, days after judgment, before he ban sue out his notice to the plaintiff;
thus requiring him to ire.ain sixty days in confinement in the cases which
come under this section, whereas he remains but thirty days whqn confined
under execution.
There can be no reason for this distinction; and in favour of liberty, and with a

332

SU1PREME COURT.

'[BAnk of'the United States vs. Weisiger.]
- view to consistency, the construction should be otherwise. - If such were the
true construction, the relief would not be'the same as is extended 'to debtors
of the other class. .The day of enterihg judgment under he'5th section, is the
day that corresponds to'the day ofarrest, under the previous provisions of the
law: and.therefore In thirty days after the judgment, 'the dOefeodant may be.
discharged; complying with the other requisitions of the law, '[350]
Where the agent of the plaintiff agreed in writing to dispense with the imprisonment required by law, to entitle the defendant to be discharged under the insolvent law of the United States; and the defendant who was in confidement"
was discharged without havinj been imprisoned thirty days, this as not such a
proceeding.as would bar the aqsignee of tl.o note tb recover agalnst aaubsequent assignor. The object of the impfisonment is to give the plaintiff an opport1inity'to ascertain the situation of the defendant, and if he does not require
this, it maybe waiveki, without prejudice to his claims'on otis.. [351]
A discharge under the insolvent laws of the United States,, is confined in its
effects .altogetherto the particular cause; and even as to that, does not exempt
the debtor's present effects, or future acquisitions from the'processof the lkw.
Nor is his person exerfpt from confinement for the same debt, should he'be
detected in a fraud upon the creditor. - [353"

APPEAL' frcin ,the circuit court of Kentucky.
The complainafnts' bill, filed in the circuit-court of. Kentucky, on the 25d of November 1892, stated that, on the 25th
of.July 1821, Peter G. Voorhees made his promissory note
fqr $2,560,. payable- sixty d.ys after date, to Daniel Wei-.
sige,r ; that Weisiger assigned to John H. Hanna, and Hanna
to the complainants, who discounted the note. That they
duly ,instituted a suit against Voorhees, on the .common law
side of ,the court, recovered judgment, and prosecuted him
.to insolvency.. It prayed that'the defendflnt may be decreed
to pay the amount, with interest, and costs.
Annexed to the .bilis a 'copy of the record of the proceedings against Voorhees, from which it appears,.that'the
declaration was filed on the 2d of October 1821;, and on-the
same day -a writ of capias ad .respon&ndum was' issued'
with this memorandum-" This is an action of debt bail
required." The Marshal-made, return to the writ; as follows".Executed 6th of'October .1821 :and.committed defendant?
to. jail of Franklin couhty receipthereon," . The jailor's
receipt bears date 5ih of November .1821.
At November term 1821, judgment Was entered for the
*plaintiffs, by default, for $2,560, with interest from the 26th

of FebrUary (Septemniei) I821,.and costs: Afteivards, on tha

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger.]

14th of December. 1821, the jailor of Franklin c6unj surrendered the body of Voorhees into court.
On the 29th of December 181 afierifaciasissued, which
was placed in the hands- of the marshal on the 19th of January ; and the marshal returnRO-" No estate found."
On the IIth of April 1822, a writ of capia&ad satisfaciendum issuedj to which the marshal returned-" Not
found."
To'this bill the defendant Weisiger moved the court for
leAve to file a dbmurrer, alleging for cause, that the bill did
not aver the proseclition of dny suit against Hanna, the immediate assignee of the bomplainant, and that Hanna was
nbt made a-party defendant; that the bill contained no case
'of equitable jurisdiction, nor for a decree'against Weisiger;
and was altogether void of equity.
Afterwards, in -the samd term, the defendant- -Hanna.appeared, and waived 'all objection to 'a decree, on account ofthe want of service of process upon him, and -Weisiger
waived the demurrer, so far as respected thewant of proer
parties.
And at the following term the court .overruled the demurrer.
At May term 1826, the defendants failing to'answer according to rule, the bill was taken for, confessed, and the
cause came-on for hearing on the bill. andexhibits; whereupon the court decreed that the complainants should reco-.
ver from the defendant Weisiger the sum of $3,278 17 cents,
and. osts, unless, &c.; which -decree-was afterwards set aside
on Weisiger's motion, and leave -given him to file an answer.
The answer of Weisigdr, protesting against tie jurisdiction Of the court, relies and insists, by way of plea in bar to
th relief claimed, that tie matters conitained in the bill, if
true, do not constitute a ca.e for the interposition of a court
of equity, but are cognisable at law,- and relies'upon the 16th"
section of the.judiciary- act of 1489. It'admits.that he may
have put his name on the note, but denies that he ever ireceived any consideration for the same, or that it, *as ever
passed or negbtiated by him or for his use or benefit. He.
answers further,. that he did not, of his own knowledge, khow

,SUPREME COURT.
Lx ank of the United States vs, Weisiger.]

of the discount of the note, although he was informed that.
such discount had been made, and for a long time believed
that it had been fully satisfied by Voorhees ; that he is advised that the proper measures were not adopted in due season to enforce the payment; and that the -proceedings had,
were not such as to anthorise a recovery against him, innsmuch as the return of the marshal shows that Voorhees was,
committed to jail, and it does not appear that he had ever
been discharged, or escaped, and there:does not appear to
haie been any order to charge him- in execution ; nor isthere any.return that h" had no property or estate onwhichthe fieri facias might have been levied. He does not a6,: it
that Veorhees was'insblvent'at the time the judgment was
obtained, against him, but believes he then had estate within
the-district sufficient to satisfy the same, in whole or in part.
The complainants' amended bill states, that before the
rendition of the judgment against Voorheesr he.was brought
before ihe district judge, took the oath required by the act
of congress, and was discharged as an insolvent from the custody of-the jailor._ Shortly after, and before the return of
the fieri facias, he left the state, and has ever since remained
out of it, leaving no estate upon which the amount could be
-levied, or any part of it; all of which is averred to be personally known to Weisiger, as. is also the fact that -he indbrsed the note for the -accommodation of Voorhe'es; and to
give him .credit, and. with. the view and -xpectation that it
would be discounted by the bank.
. The exhibit referred to in the'amended bill, states the pro* ceedings to discharge Voorhees from imprisonment, in three
suits of-the, bank of the United States, .entitled as follows-:
The president, directors, arrd company of the Bank of the
United States, plaintiffs, vs. Peter G. Voorhees, defendant.
The same vs. the same.
The same vs. George M. Bibb, Charles S. Todd, and Peter G, Voorhees.
The 'judge's order to discharge, dated 14th December
-1821, states that Voorhees was imprisoned'in the jail of
Franklin county by process in these suits,; that judgment.

JANUARY TERM 1-829..
Liiank of the United States us. Weisiger.]

had been rendered in the suits, and he" had petitioned to
have the, oath administered to him ; that a citation had been
servqd upon Henry CIay, egq. agent; &c.; that they appeared, and no good cause. being shbwn, the oath was administered, and he was discharged.
The citation bears date the 14th of December 18-21, and
requires appearance on the 7th of January following. And
then there is a paper of which the following is a copy:
"I agree, on behalf of the Bank of the United States; to
waive the previous imprisonment by law to 'entitle" the defendant to take the oath of in insolvent debtor, and that the
said oath may be now administere'd, with the same effect as
if that imprisonment had taken place. 14 December 1821.
H. CLA.Y,
(Signed)
Counsel of tAe B. U. S."
Upon the bills, answei, and exhibits above set forth, the
court, at May term 1827, decreed the complainants' bill to
be dismissed with costs.
Mr Sergeant$ for the alpellants,. complainants below,
nrade the following points:
1. The defendant- not being the.'immediate indormer to
-the complainant, but a remote indorser, the case was cog-.
nisable and the complainant relievable only in equity.
2. That, having proceeded' at law, with due diligence,
against the drawer, and the drawer being insolvdnt, the cornplainant was entitled to relief against the indorser.
3. 'That the discharge.by the district judge, or the consent of the counsel of the plaintiff to waive thb thirty days"
notice, or the thirty days' imprisonment, o. any part thereof.
did not impair or affect the right to recover against the in
dorser.
4. The fact of Voorhees's insplvency is established by the
oath takei by him before the district judge, which is at least
prima facie evidence, and sufficient until the contrary appear, as well as by the return to the fieri facias; and that
fact being established is sufficient to entitle the complainant
to recover: For,
5. The discharge could not prejudice the indorger. His

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank-of the United States vs. Weisiger.]

cause of action against the- drawer will accrue by the payment of the money, and be unaffected by the discharge.
6. That the decree below ought to 8'e reversed, and a decree rendered for the appellant.
1. As to the objeftion that the bill contained no case for
equitable jurisdict'on, and was altogether without equity; he
said the whole'of the questions in the cause, th6 present included, depended upon a law peculiar (as far as he knew) to
Virginia and Kentucky, and derived by the latter from the
former. It was not created by statute, but was the'common
law of the state, in the case of indorsers or assignqrs, as expounded by judical decisions.
-The first case in the books was Mackie's executors
vs.. Davis and Young, in Virginia, 1796. 2 Wash. Re..
219. It makes -no distinction between bonds and notes,
sealed and unsealed instruments. It established in general,
"that the assignor: is liable to the assignee, provided due"
diligence be used by him against the obligor or drawer, and
the latter prove insolvent." Tizck. B1. 442, innote. In Lee
vs. Love, 1 Call, 497, 1199, it was decided that the assignee
of a 'note must'sue the -maker before he can resort to the
assignor. The liability of the indorser, therefore, is dependent upon a condftion'which elsewhere does not belong to it,
of due diligence being first used against the drawer and
failing from his established want of ability to. pay.
Against the imimediate- indorser the remedy is at law;
against a remote iridorser, in equity. Mandeville vs. Riddle, 1 Cranch, 293. Riddle vs. Mandeville, 5 .Cranch,322.
Drake vs. Johnson, Ilardin, 218. S. P..3 Tarsh. 163.
This being decided by the- Supreme Court of the- United States, as well as by the tribunals Of Kentucky, there can
be no doubt that the present is a case for equitable jurisdiction;. being the case of a Yemote, and not of an immediate
indorser; there is no jurisdiction at law.
That the bill was without equity is supposed to .be made
out, because Hanna, a subsequent indorser :to Weisiger; was
not first prosecuted to insolvency, and because (as alleged)
-there was no consideration from the bank to Weisiger.

JANUARY TERM 18 9.

337

[Bank otthe United States vs. Weisige.]

To the firsi of these suggestions, after stating that Hanna
was a party defendant, he replied that it Was no part of the
condition of-the holder's resort against oDe indofaer, that
hp should first proceed against another. Their common liability was dependent upon one and the same condition, that
is, the failure by due diligence to obtain the-money from the
drawer; upon. which condition they all became liable, and
the holder might pioceed against either. Such was the
law as decided. Independently of this, it must be obvious
that no reason can be assigned for requiring the h6laer first
to. prbceed against a subsequent indorser, inasmuch as, a
recovery from him would give him an immediate action.
.against the prior indorser. This is contrary to the priridiple of Riddle.vs. Mandeville. There.is no ground, however,
for the suggestion.
To the other he replied, that if it appeared (which'he did
not admit) that there was no beneficial 'consideration from*
the bank to 'Weisiger, still there was a consideration sufficient at law and in equity td support the contract-the'consideratioa of injury to the bank. The money, was loaied*
(whoever may have received it) upon the credit of the" in-.
dorser. Ris contract was the inducement to lend, without'
which the loan would neohave been made..
2. The complainants, he said,' had f'illy perf6rke the
'condition to enitle them to recover from the indorser. Theyhad'proceeded at law with dii diligence against.the drawer'
until he became insolvent, and further pursuit became hopeless. To proceed further could n6t be required, and would
be liable to censure if attempted at the expense of the- indorser. He is answerable for costs reasonably incurred, but
not fQr expienses eiityre" thrown away.
The note fell due the 26th of September 1821. Suit was
brought against the 'drawer the 2d of October 1821, to the
next term. At the next term judgment was obtained. A
fi..fa. issued December 29, 1821, and a ca. aa. the 11th of
April 1822. In the, mean time, to wit, December 14, 1821,
Voorhees was discharged under the insolvent law'of -the
United States: So that here there were due diligence, and
established legal insolvency. There "vas even more than
-VoLe. I.-2 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger.]

due diligence ' for after'the insolvency, the process o7 execution was unnecessary and could only have been taken out
from abundant caution.
He then examined all the, decided cases in Kentucky, so
far as they were accessible(a), and .proceeded to state, that
(a) The following abstract of the cases which have been decided In the
courts of Kentucky, for which the reporter is indebted to the counsel of the appellant, will be found highly useful and interesting to the profession.
M'Kinney vs. M'Connell, 1 Bibb, 239.
1808.-Assignor holding up obligation for fourteen months without suit, was
guilty of gross negligence. Not accounting for this delay, he was not entitled to
recourse against assignor. If the debtor was in doubtful circumstances,.the necessity for due diligence was therefore the greater:Smallwood vs. Woods, 1 Fibb, 542.
1809.-Assigne. to use every compulsory process of the law against the
debtor; and all the incidental remedies to compel payments; except where
obligor is out of the commonwealth, and such absence wis not cdnfemplated by
assignor and assignee. To omit to demand bail, where bail was of right demandable, in case the ca. sa. should be returned non est inventus, would be
negligence. Where bail given, the assignee must proceed against bail, upon
n. e. i. returned against principal.
. Refers to Mackie's Ex. vs. Davis, 2 Wash. 219; Boal's Ex. vs. M'Connell,
Pr.Dec. 152.
Spra:t vs. M'Kinney, 1 Bibb, 595.
1809.-Assignment on assignment ofa -covenant.
Absence of debtor from the circuit is not sufficint to entitle the assigoee to
recourse against the assignor. Diligence by suit cannot be dispensed with by
aierringthat debtor was insolvent.
Drake vs. Johnson, Hardin,218.
1808.-1The assignee of a bond or note cannot sue a remote indorser, for there
is no privity between them.
Refers to I Ca. 209: Mandeville vs. Riddle, S. P. 3 Marsh. 163 2 Tuck.Bl.
442, a case in district court, Virginia; and a case in Maryland, seep. 222.
Hogan vs. Vance, 2 Bibb, 34.
1810.-The sheriff's return of no property to a fi. fa. directed to the county
where debtor resides, is conclusive evidence that he had, no property lr the
county; and prima facie, that he hath none elsewhere. But such return on an
execution, directed to a county where he does not reside, is no evidence of insolvency. The assignee must use due diligence to recover the money from the
obligor; if he do not, and debtor become insolvent, he makes tfie debt his own.
Thompson vs. Caldwell, 2 Bibb, 290.
1811.-Suit against two obligors, (first one and then the other added,) fi. fa.
against one, and aftrwards ca. sh. agaist'both. Sheriff returned that he had
taken defendant add released by county court. Held nit sufficient against'assignor. Ought to have been a fi.fa. Doubt, to which defendant the return
applied. Doubt, as to power of court.
M'Ginnis vs. Burton, 3 .Bibb, 6.
181.-Assignee of note (bond,) holding up for ten months without bringing

3ANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger']

he perceived in them nothing which appeared to him to interfere with.the complainants' right to recover..
suit, and not accounting for delay, guilty of negligence. Staying execution by
plaintiff, after property seized'by sheriff, discharges assignor. Replevying debt is
conclusive evidence of solvency at the time, and if bond afterwards quashed for
irregularity, remedy is against officer, and not assignor. (Seems otherwise, 2
Lift. 132, post, in this note.)
Young vs. Cosby, 3 Bibb, 227.
1813.-If the assignee prosecute diligently as far as a prudent man woould
do, in a case where he was solery interested, that is all that is required to give
him recourseupon the assignor. If he sue a fi. fa. which is returned nulla bona,
and then a ca. sa. upon which the debtor is arrested, and discharged for want of
security for prisop fees, this is not laches, unless the debtor had property mnt
within the reach of a fi. fa., which the assignor must prove.
Campbell vs. Hopson, 1 Marsh. 228.
1818.-On a transfer of a bond, a covenant to be liable if obligor not solvent,
does not vary legal liability of assignor. Must be diligence. "Failing to commence his action for four months, inexcusable delay. Fatal negligence not so
to prosecute it, as to.ascertain insolvency or fix the ball"
Stapp vs. Anderson, 1 Marsh.-535.
1819,-The insolvency and removal from the state of the drawer, per se, sub.
jects the assignor without suit against the drawer. " The law does not require
any one to do a vain or idle act."
A note negotiated in bank is a mercantile paper, &c. See S. P. Dodge vs. Bank, 2 Marsh. 610.
Collyer vs. Whitaker, 2 Marsh. 197.
1820.-Assignee preferring a p6tition and summons, and thereby waiving bis
right to bail, must show payee's insolvency by ca. sa. not aliunde.
Jvote, in this case, no neglect imputed for not requiring bail, which is contrary
to .'Bibb, 542. (Perhaps they may be reconcihed: the one speakinj of a return
of non eat, and the other supposing an arrest.)
As to time of bringing suit, the case says, "1shortly and within a reasonable
time after note became due ;" not immediately.
As to fi. fa. " which issued in reasonable tim&;" not immediately.
Sup poses that in general "insolvency only legitimately proved by suit," &c.
'The prosecution of suit, however, is essential barely as the means of ascertaiung," &c.
Clalf vs. Barr, 2 Marsh. 255.
1820:-If drawer dead at time note falls due, without heirs or letters testa.
mentary, parol evidence may be receireg of insolvency. But if he be alive
when note falls due, insolvency does not absolve holder from necessity of suing;
he may hav had credit, though without property.
Note 1. In this case, the drawer died on the third day of the firgt term after
the note fell due, -being about two months. The court say that a suit w*as essential, that proof of insolven cy could make no difference, and yet reverse the
judgment below, because parol proof of insolvency was not received.
Note 2. "He might not have been without credit," &c. i. e. there was no
open, public; or .legal insolvency; therefore he might possibly have paid, &c.
In this sense (which is the obvious one) it is correct. It cannot be proved that

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger.]

The -point to be .establisbed by a reasinably diligent .pursuit, is the insolvency of the drawer, or- the impossibility of
getting the money from him. Upon that being established,
the right arises against the indorser. It may'be established
in various ways.
1. By showing that he was out-of the state and not ,within
the reach of process, and without. property in the state.
This -he inferred from Spratt vs.'VKinriey, I Bibb, 595.
Stapp vs. Anderson, 1 JVlarh. ,535,.
.2. By the use of due diligence, and inability to recover,
or prosecution to insolvency. He must sue in a reasonable
he would not have paid, s he was going on. Many' men' are insolvent. This
reconciles it.
Smith vi. Blunt, 2 Naish. 522.
" 1820.-Omitting to issue a ca, ea. forfive months after the return of the f6. fa."
is an unreasonable delay, and discharges assignor. NotS. There appeirs to bive
been some interval between judgment anl,
fi. fa. - Certificate of discxrge-as
an insolvent debtor in another suit, is not evidence, as-he is liable to be imprisoned in other suits.
Parker vs. Owings, 3 Marsh. 59.
1820..Assignor not liable, though drawer has taken the oath and surrendered.
a schedule; unless schedule produced and amount ef property ascertained; the
assignee is bound to pursue the property.
Oldham vs. Bengan, 2 Littell, 18.
1822.-1. Not obliged to sue at first term,if he cannot hyso doinggetjudgient.
2. Not obliged to apply the extraordinary process of the law.
S. Whether in any case, laches of sheriff will relidve assignor? Ifin any case,
it can only be where of such a nature as to subject him to the'whd1e debt.
4.-Not obliged to take out execution oo-affidavit during sitting of ourt, nor
can the assignor avoid responsibility by showing that other plaintidid-fo and
got their money.
Trlmble vs. Webb, I .Monroe, 100. •
1824.-.udgment obtained 4th ofAprilV1820. Codrt adjourned the :14th. Execution issued 96ih of July. Court below, deemed it sufficient diligenee. Court
of appeals "The only chasm in the diligence, exergised by the appellees in
prosecuting their suit against the ori iial debtor, appears bet'ween the judgment
and execution. For this delay no
0logy was offered, n'or excuse prbved:
This court has niver held assignees to more than reasonable diligence in.Prosecuting the demand against the original debtors, and has never required them to
run a race against-time ,.still it has not permifled any unteasonable delay-to be
passed'over. The time hete lost is more than any prudent man would hhve indulged in, whefi he believed his debt t6 be in danger, and savours too strongly
of indulgence kciously given, by some understanding between the palties.
Considerine'tbs case, as we have stated it, uncoupled with any other cir-umstances in the cause, we nmusi, according to previous'decisions of' the court,
hold the delay as conclusive against the appelloe's right to recover."

.JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank Qf the United Stats vs. Weisiger.]

time. "M'Kinney vs. MWConnell, 1 Bibb, 139. M'Ginnis vs.
Burton, 3 -Bibb, 6. But theie is no fixed time. Collyer VS.

Whitaker, 2 Marsh. 197.. Perhaps it must generally be the
next term. Clair vs. Barr, 2 .Marsh. 255. Hi must use the
ordinary remedies. Smallwood -vs. Wood; j1 Bibb, 542.
But he is not bound to use extraordinary ones. Oldham vs.
Bengan; 2 Littell, 132. He must in general- issue fi. fa.
and ca. sa. and -issue them in slccession. He cannot issue
them together. No decided case gives--any, countenance to
the sugestion that he can do so. The records in this court
show that he cannot. The return to the fi. fa. directed to the
county, where party resides, is conclusive to show that there
is no property in the county, and, prima facie, that there is
none in.the state.
The result is to be insolvency, evidenced by legal pursuit.
The-end and.object is to make this appear.
But there is aother case:
3. Ins6lvenicy, legally ascertained by other means,. When
this'occurred after the .note fell due, he contended, that.it.
'dispensed with legal pursuit.. When it occurred after proceedings begun, he contended it dispensed With further-prosecution. .Tha cQntrary. doctrine would be absurd, the object being to ascertain. insolvency. Why proceed after it
had been ascertained-?
Upon this point, there was a seeming contradiction in the
decided caes, but. it.was not a real one. It'was explained
by the'principle of the decisions, which was-this: that parol
evidence should not be received to -prove - ins6lvency. It
must be a legal insolvency, legally or judicially.ascertained.
This-would appear from a brief attention to the cases. In
Collyer vs. Whitaker, 2 *Marsh.197, it.is'1said,." insolvency,,
in,genefal, only legitimately proved by suit." "The prosecution of suit, however, is essential, barely as the. means of
In Young vs. Cosby, S Bibb, 2-27,-"- if
ascertaining, &c.
the assignee prosecute diligently as far a§ a prudent.man
would do in a case where he was solely intdrested,,that is all
that is required. ' In Stapp vs. Anderson, -1 M.Msh. 535,
insolvehcy and removal 'of-the -drawer from:the state were
.held sufficient, per se, to subject assignor, without suit against

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger.]

drawer. "The law," says the court, "does not require any
one to do a vain or idle act." If sued to insolvency on one
note, therefore,,not necessary.to sue dpon another. These
cases are supposed to be contradicted by Clair vs. Barr, 2
JXlarsh. 255. In that case, the drawer was living when the
note fell due. He died on the third day of the first term,
being about two. months after the note fell due. The court
decide that proof of insolvency did not absolve the holder
from the necessity of suing: "he (the drawer) may have had
credit, though he had no property." The decision, therefore, amounts tO nothing amore, than that, at a -subsequent
time, parol evidence shall not be received to prove that the
party was actually insolvent at a prior time. In other words,
actual insolvency no excuse. The debtor was going on in
business, "had credit," and possibly might have paid. How
could this be if he were legally divested of all his property,
andatripped of all his-credit, by judicial insolvency? It is
a reasonable distinction; the samie .that is made 'by the pri6rity laws of the United.States. They disregard actual insolvency.
This case, therefore, leaves in full force the reasonable
doctrine of Young vs. Cosby, and Stapp vs. Anderson:
otherwise understood, it would be contrary to the very principle of the law, and, would go far towards extinguishing all
liability of the indorser, already sufficiently reduced.
3. The discharge by the judge, and the waiver of the
thirty days imprisonment, or thirty days notice, did not take
away the right of the complainants. Why keep him in prisonq
The insolvency would no more have been ascertainedat
the end of thirty days, than at the beginning. It would have
been mere wanton cruelty to keep the debtor in prison. The
law doesnot require it. The decisions in Kentucky, which
are in the spirit of humanity to the debtor, do not require it.
Else why not require the creditor to pay the prison fees, and
thus continue the debtor's imprisonhient' . It is not necessaxy to use undue severity or indulge in unproductive cruelty.
Young vs. Cosby 3 Bibb, 227. It has-been supposed (and
perhaps the belief led to this decision) that Clair vs. Bari
established the doctrine, that a creditor was bound to keep

JANUARY TERM:1829.
[Bank-of the United States vs.-We

343
3ger.]-

in prison-a"destitute and insolvent debtor, in the hope that,
though he had nothing himself, something might be extorted
ly his sufferings from the charity of his -friends. This is
not.' just motive, nor one that a court -ean countenance.
Imprisoinment of a debtor is not to be used at this time of
day for inflicting a--punishment upon him or his friends.
Why then, it is said, is aca.'sa. given T The answer is very
easy.'- -It is to compel the surrender of property, which, from
its nature or locality, cannot, be made amenable to -other
process,- But Clair vs. Barr does not proceed-upon the principle. imputed to it. Rightly understood, it is in harmony
with the other cases, and with the obvious dictates -of hu-inanity arid justice.
'As to the supposed neglect to charge Voorhees in execu4ti6n, he said he doubted whether it was in any case required,
or even admissible; for the decisions in Kentucky mad it
necessdry first to issue a Ii. fa. But without 'entering into
that question, he said that. in.this case the discharge under.
the in solvent law dispensed with that step, and, indeed, made
it impossible
He submitted, therefore, ° that the decree below was- notwarranted by the principles upon which.the liability of'indorsers restsj nor by the decisions in Kentucky; -which had
certainly gone' far enough in limiting and crippliifg the
rights of the holder.
-

Mr Wickljffe;for the appellee, stated thdt it was -denied
that an consideration had been received for his indorsement
by Daniel Weisiger; and he also denied that the bank had
used due diligence to obtain payment of the note from *the
drawer. The facts of the case are unconteradicted upon the
pleadings and exhibits, as there was no evidence introduced
-t oppose the statement and allegations in the answer of the
appellee in the circuit court.
-

The Court should be aware of the nature and legal cha-

racter of paper of the description of that upon which the
appellants claim.to receive. Such instruments are not ne.gotiable by the laws of Ke6ntucky; the statute of Anne never
having beea in force in thatstate. The party who sues may

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Weisiger.J

do so upon a statute of Kentucky, which authorises the suit
in the name of the assignee, but goes jio further.
The-true. principle upon which the responsibility of the
assignor-depends, and upon which it can alone be supported,
is the general liability, to refund that which he may -have received, on a consideration which has failed. I Bibb,.545.
In I .Marskall, 544, it was decided that this liability was
thus restricted, and did not extend to the -amount stated in
the note;. Under the authority of cases in Kentucky, the
assignor is, not liable without a consideration received by
Aim; nor unless the consideration be alleged and proved.
1 Jbb 596. 2 Vibb, 425.
The only case which impugns the uniforni current of decisions in Kentucky upon these principles, is that of Allen'
vs. Prior, 3 Marshall,305.
The appellee received nothing for his indorsement of the
note; anid he is -therefore, protected from all liability upon
it, .by the decisions of the courts of Kentucky.
There cannot be a liability by the appellee, considering
him as.having guarantied the debt. Such'a liability should
have been in writing-; as, unless it is so,'the.statuteof frauds
destroys it.
It is not denied that the injury a promissee may receive
as well as a benefit given to the promissor, is a good conSiderati6n; but if the principle is otherwise, it can be.claimed
.olyin favour of an original indorsde. In this case the bak
stands independent of such a principle, for to the bank no pro.
mise was ever made by the appellee, his engagement-having
been.madeto Hanna, the preceding indorsee. But ifaresponsibility by the assignor does exist, in a case where he received
no benefit, and a chancellor will. interpose and enforce the
contrat; this Will only be where the condition imposed by
the law governing the contract has been performed.
The next inquiry: is, therefore, has the law creating this
liability of the assignor been complied with .
The law in Kentucky stands thus:
The assignee ought to take every compulsory process of
law against the original debtor, until his insolvency is established ;-or the Suit and all inci46ntal remedies are found

JANUARY TERM: i829.
[tank of the Vnited Rtates vs.-We'.sigeeg

iniufficient- to :coerce payment.. Smallwood vs. Woods, "I
Bibb, 546.
,Toomit hQldiiig to bail, when bail isof'rightdeitandable,
if on a c 8a. the.rieturn.is amre esti vetua; is negligence.

°

2 W.arohall, 197.'
The assitnee is bouid'to issue afi..-fa.and a ca..m and
if the.-debtor is.'not'found, ;to, proceed" against -the bail..'Nothing short of this will-do. A RBibb, 147.. In M'Kinney,
vs.. M'Connell) 1 -Bibb,- 39, it-wagdecided "that delay of
fotrteen nionths,-ig per s8negligence, no matter what 6ther
steps may-have been taken.
Averment of insolvency,'and consequently'proofof iiat
fact, by aby-other 'means than, a legal' prodeeding on 'the
note- assigned, will not. le stifcient to chard.the indorser,
-3Bibb,,6.
Mr. "Wickliffe..also cited the -case of Hogan'vs."Vaiel,2
Bibb, -34;,Thompson 'vs. Caldwell, :2 Bibb '290; also 3"
Bibb,6&;. and Young vs.- Cosby,-S3Bibb 227; uponothese
points. Also 2 .far'shall, '594; 2,Litteg, 134 ; and Parker,
Vs. Owingson, in 3 .Marshal.
These authorities, he contelided; mnaintain the absolute obligation of industry and vigilance on the art.of the assignee;
and they also. establish the principle, that'the rules in relvtion to a guarantee are to be construed'-under- the law, with
great:strictness.
He alsci'argued that the proceedings under which the
drawerlwa& discharged from the process. against him. by the
district judge, were irregular, and subjected the appellants
to alfthe consequences of their illegality.,
.,By-the pleadings and 'evidedfce it 'appeared- that the note-'
fell due onthe 23d of September. Awrit-was issued oh-the
2d,of'Octpber,.iI which bail was required: this was returned
" executed" on the 6th of November, 'the defendant having
been committed .0 prison on the preceding 4day. "On the
20th.of November, judgmentwas entered by default, and 'fterwrds in. December,.durin7g the sawter rm,- the jailor sur'rendered the body in;ourt. itwas theduty of the plaintiff
t6 charge ,the'def6ndant in execution ; ind if not io charged
-

Vo,& I.--

T

346"

SUPREME COUIRT.
lBanlk of the United States vs. Weisiger.]

within thirty days,'then, and

pot

before,. he might be dis-

charged under the insolvent law.
The discharge by the district judge was before the thirtydays, of a prisoner not in execution'; and this was done by a
-waiver. of-the time required by law. The assignee is'not
permitted to run a-head of the law, and discharge a .debtor
before, under. its provisions, lie is entitled to it. By not proceeding according to law, and failing to pursue the course
*the law narks'out, he rele-ases the assignor from all responsibility to him.
The distriet judge had no jurisdiction. His authority was
to administer the oath; but the act of congress directs him not
i do so until after. thirty days. The period of thirty days
is given for the benefit of the creditor, and of those 'who are
intsrested that the debt should be paid. All such are therefore. parties interested in the proceeding; and if the consent
of the creditors can give the right to discharge,"all should
consent. The assignor should have consented, as his responsibility became consummate by the dis'charge.
The consent of the counsel for the appellanfs, alone gave
jurisdiction to-the district court; or was so considered. If
it did not, where. is the prisoner The discharge being illegal, he has escaped, and may be pursued and retaken, or the
jailor was' liable.
It is manifest thakt the a'ppellants considered that they had
not used the diligence required'of them. They proceeded
afterwards by aft.fa, which was issued on the29th of Deceraber, -but which did not -reach the hands of the marshal until
the 9th of January following; and Which was in March. returned "-no effects.'! After the riiturn- in-March, a ca.,4a.,
i~sued in April, one month having expired.
It 'has -been decided, that it is'.the duty of the party, to
plade .his writ in the hands of the officer -in a reasonable
time. Tremble'vs. Webb, 1i.Monroe, .100.
He further argued, that if the discharge of the drawer by
the district judge was not in the suit.brought upon the -note
for which the appelee was now claimed to be. liablb,.and
this might be inferred Trom the record,, the discharge in
another suit was not evidence of insolvency.-

JANUARY TERM .1829.
[Bank.of the United States us.-Weisiger.]

In reference-to one of the cases cited. by the counsel for
the. appellants, h6 argued, that where it had.beenconsidered.
that not holding to .bail was -not laches, the case wasone
in which a "speedier. remedy' was obtained by petition. atd
summons, in.which no bail, was allowed, and good faith was.
°presumed.
Mr Justice JoH Ns5Q delivered the opinion of the Court.

This casaturng altogether upon doctrines peculiar to the
states of Virginia and Kentucky.. It is tfhb.case of a suit in
equity, instituted by ihe indorsee, 'or, in the language of the'
cotintry,.the assignee, of,a promissory note, to charge an intermediati-indotper. All'the doctrine" on the subject will
be found fully. stated in the two cases, of. Riddle & Co. vs.
Mandeville.& Jameison reported among'the decisions of
ihis Court; and in the cases qf Smallwood v. ;'Woods, and
Spratt s.M'Kinney, to, be- found among.the decisions of
the cuurt of appeals of.K-entucky.
The defendant here has demuirred to the bill, for want of
equity, and this raises the first 'question in the 'cause.
In'the last case decided in this Court, between Riddle-&
Co. vs. Mandville & Jameisdn, which was a case in most
-respectssimilar to the present, this Court decided) -thata-suit
could be 'maintained in equity by-the holder-.of an'indbrsed.
note against'a remote indorser; and-upon grounds perfectly
familiar to courts. exercising' equity . jurisdiction. It was a
Virginia .contract, governed, by-the same law which is 'of
.forte in Kentucky. This. Court.had before. decided, that by
the 'laws of the country,.gqvernifig the contract, a suit atlawcould not'be maintained betweeh the holder of the note and
a remote indorser." But'then a suit at law could have been
maintained by him against the immediate indorser, and by
him .against -the pre~eding indorser, -and so on thrdugh any
number of indorsers. This' presented the ordiniary case of
an assignment.of a chose in action, which transfers an interest without the right of action.
To maintain this demurrer .then, it was incumbent on the
defendant to have shown, that there was some principle in
the jurisprudence of Kentucky, that could sustain a distinc-.
-

348

SUPREMgE COURT;
[Bank of.te United Statea vs. We'uiger.]

tion'between his case and that previously decided. here : bNt
every thing-concurs to repel.the-idea of such a distinction.
In the case-of Drake vs. Johnsn, the court ..of appeals'lof
Kentucky Also decidjed;,that a suitt law could not be maintained in.that state by-the indorsee against a remote indorser.
The eonclusi6n"then. results from our own. decisions that
he must be let into equity;. for an indorsement. is certainly
no refse to the previous indorsers, and -t04 ultimate as;
signee alone is entitled to the, benefit of their -hability:- And.
this we understand -to be consistent with the received.-opitions and practice of Kentucky.
The second-point made for the defendant .is,. that, as ,he
received no coiqsideraitioj for assigning the note,, he is not
liable at all.
But on this it is only necessary t6 observe, that he indorsed
it to give credit: to Voorhees, the promissor; -and, the aw
theiefore imputes to,.hinithe consideration paid.to'Voorheeds
The most material point in the' cause, and that on which
.the decision below was rendered in favour of the defendant,
was the want of due diligence against the drawer of-the
note. The-law is settled there, as it is in Virginia, and in
this Court, uopn Virginia contracts of this description; that
every -reasonable effort must be .made' to recover of .the
drawer by'suit, before the assignee can have recourse against
the assignor or indorser.
is on the question. what:cons.tit&tes such diligence; that al .the difficulties arise on suits
upon these contracts. -And,certainly this Uourt cannot be
called upon to carry the obligations imposed upon assignees
on. this point, further than.the state courts have already extended them.
. There are.three grounds on which the defendant, would
impute to the complainant a want of diligence, fatal to' his
right to recover.
The -first is, that the fi. fa. did not come to the marshal's
hands, until the expiration of about thirty-six. days after the
judgment-was obtaiiied, ind nineteen-after it issued.
'The second, 'that the ca. sa. did not iss'ue until about-_It

three months'and a'half after the fi. fa.
Let it .be observed, that the note fell, due on the 25th of
-

JANUARY TERM 189.
[Bank of the United-States vs. Weigiger.1

September, the writ was issued on-the 2d of October; the
judgment was entered the November term following; and the
drawer, Voorhees, being held in custbdy for want of-bail,
wag diharged,,as insolvent-, on the-14th-ofDeceihber of the
same year.
Justice can hardly he charged with a halting gait thus
far, As to her subsequent progress, it does.not appdar on' hat
day the court for November term adjourned,; but as the fi.
fa. bears date on the, 29th of December, it ig presumable
that it-sat on that day. The fi. fa.,did not reach the office
of the marshal until three weeks'aier ;'and the ca. sa..was
not sued out at the time when the fi. fa. issued. Butitwas
sued out at-the term to which the fI. fa. was returnable, to wit,
on the Lith of April 1822. So that from thetime the note
fell due, to the last step in the progress'of judicial means for
enforcing payment, we count but six moflths and a half. Wp
do not recognise the supposed obligation or power-of the,
party, in the-circuitcourt,'to sue out the ca. sa. contemporaiieously*with the fi. fa. ; .and'with the exceptionof that interval, we are rather inclined'to iitribute to the complainant
extraordinary diligence, thah culpable delay.
But, why were the' executions issued at all in this'case:
except from "abundant caution, and to avoid the imputation
of laphes . Was it necessary . The courts of Kentueby
have certainly decided-otherwise. Inthle case of Stappot
al. vs., Anderson et al. I Jlarsh. 240, they expreps themselves thus:
"Thbe discharge of an insolvent under our .sts,.ute is a
judicial act, of a record character, and is in its nature, as it
must be in -contemplation of law; the most satisfactory evi-.
ddnce of the insolveney of the person' ischarged."
This, it is true, was declared-respecting adIischarge in another suit, on a different cause of action, under the insolvent
•law of the state, and upona'ca. sa. But it would be difficult to assign a reason, why it should not apply to a discharge
*ina suit op the same cause of action, untle tho law of the
United States,.and where the. defendantwas in custody under
an order fof bail. In both instances, a state of insolvency
is judicially established ; and as the court expresses itself in

350

SUPREME':COURT.
IBaDk oflie-UnifedStates' V . W Isger.]

the same case, "4it would have: been worse than idle," nay,
in this case it would have.,4een false imprisonment, to have
re-taken -the debtor-;- ifias the defendant contends, and no
doubt 'was the, fact,'h.e was discharged under the suit upon
this, note.
The third andiast ground of laches, and.that-which it appear ,J3y. a rep6rt handed to us, influenced the court below,
Was -the consent of the agent o5f the complainant to' dispense
with'-the imprisonment to which the drawer of the-note might
have been'subjected, before' he wouldihave taken the oath,
and received a discharge under the 'act of congress.
.-The correctness of the decision below upon this point muIst
be tested, by donsideratiis drawn:-from the object of the
:ifnprisoninent; the influence, of the discharge upon the 'loss
of the debt; and. fromn. adjudged cases. .We are inclined to
think that it bag b'een.rather 'tou hastily conceded, that no
case similar to the present has been adjudicated. That it
adds another to the, long list of instances' of laches *hich
have been held to be fatal to the 'recovery of the assignee
against his assignorin thatcountr'y, cannot be doubted.
:Thi4 case,' it must be recollected, comes withinthe fifth
sedtion; of the- act of' January-6th, 1800, entitled " An, act
for the ielief of persons imprisoned for debt.' The second,
third arid. fourth sections of that act make provision' for the
,discharge of persons confined under execution,-and the fifth
section- extends "the- privileges and" relief" of 'that act- to
person in confinements against whom judgmeit is obtained
but no execution issued. Under the provisions in favour of
persons charged in execution, on the day of arrest, a notice
may be served-upon the person. at whose suit they are "coz
fined, and at the end of thirty days they-may be disharged.
By the fifth section it is enabted, "that any person imprisoned upon- process- issuing from any court of the- United
States, except at the suit of the United States, in.any, civil
action, against whom judgment has been or shall- be recovered, shall'be entitled to the privileges and. relief provided
by this act, after the expiration of thirty days 'from the time
such judgment has been or shall be recovered, though the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[sank df tednastated

-~

.Webgeri]

creditor shold not, within 'thattime, sue ouAt his executioh
and, charge the.debtsr thefewith."
It has -been-argned, that under this section the defendant
must remain in pison- thirty days after judgment before -he
can sue out his notice'to the plaintiff, thus re4uiring ;him
to remain sixty days in confinement, in the cases which come
under this-. section; -whereas. he remains but, thirty days,
'when-confine. under execution,
There can be no. reson"for'the- distinction, and we -think
thdt infdvour -f liberty and with a .view.to consistency, the
the construiction should be otherwise. If such were the true
'cohstruction, -the .relief would not be" the same as is extended- t4 the debtors: of the., other class- We think there
fore, thatthe ilay of entering, judgment under the fifth sec.:
tion, is-the d'y that corresponds to the day of arrestunderth4-.previous provisions of the law; and, therefore, that in
thirtydays? aftei judgment, he may -be discharged by complying with the other .requisition's.of the 'law. The dayof
entering-.the judgment appears no where in-thin:recbrd,*.but
as the. notice was serYel ojfi, the lJaintiffs? agent on the .14th.
-of December, we. must presume that: the-judgment ad then
ben enitpred ;. and on'-the same- day the agent signed,.that
consent to dispense, with,'.the previbus imprisonment' by,
law to entitle the defendant 'to take the ath. of n-:insolvent
debtor'" by. which; it is now insisted,. that the complainant §
are.barred.of their.right to..recover of the, assignor.
The-error of the: coirt below obviously consists in this',
that it-.considers the imprisonment to'which-the defendant-is,
subjected, as-among the mieans of c6ereing payment.. The;
arrest certainlyis so;- but the. thfrtv days confine'ment that "
ensues, is only incidental-to thenblice required-to be giveij
to the plaintiff of the defendants' intention to claiin his discharge as an insolvent. ;No w he must-be insolvent'when
this.notice is given, and what is to -be forced from an-insolvent -man by th6 thirty days. imprisonment 9 '.It. is obVious
that the confinement is not regardedas themeans of'coer--.
cion, but only as a time necesiary to the. investigation of
the. defenidants' circumstances, or the collection. of evidence

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs.. Weisiger.]

to repel his insolvency. The coercive means of the law are
to be found in the searching oath. to be admiristered,- and in
the fear of proecution. for perjury, and recommitment in
the same actions.
If, then,, this imprisonment has no other object than to
make the debtor await the investigations of his creditor,. it
is ifficult to'a ssign a reason why, the creditor may not dispense -with it,' when satisfied' that the application is an..
honest one, and that delay would discover nothing that he
was not already acquainted wit&. In the language of the
Kentucky coiirt,'it would .be "worse than idle," to detain
him. Noibhing but unavailing h rdship Upon him, .and ulti-,
mate expense to his -indurser, .c6uld result from it.
Nor 4o we think 6urselves unsupiported by thb Kentucky
decision in'this view- of. the subject.
.In the .case of Youqg v8. Cosby, the drawer of the note
being in.custody under a ca.. sa. issuedy the assignee, .waa
discharged for'want of security fot the payment of prison
fees.- This discharge, it was contended, was imputable to
thc, assignee and barred. his recovery against the assignor;
unless he could prove that the drawdr had nothing which
might have been Wrung from him by'a protracted imprison-.
mont, .But the court of appeals decided otherwise; and
established, that if the 'ssignor had sustained. any injury in
that respect, it was incumbent upon him torprove it. The'
language of chief. justice Boyle,'.on* that occasion,. Wa
this. "It has repeatedly been decided in this court, 'that
to entitle the -assignee of a bond or note to recover of the
assignor, it was necessary to show that he had used due
'diligence by suit, to recover the amount from the payor or
obligor; -but it has never been required of 'him to prosecute
the suit against the .payor.or obligor, far.er than, a man of
ordinary prudendeoand diligence would do, in a case where
he was solely and exclugively interested. To make it necessary to do so, would be unreasonabld and unjust; inaeduch
asit would tend. to accumulate costs.without the.. prospect
of any probable. advantage to either-of the parties."
W a entirely, approve of the opinions here expressed - they

JANUARY -TERM 1829.

353

[B ank of "theUnited States vs. Welsiger. ]

aie conceived" in the reason and benignity of the law, and
we are urnwilling to extend the diligence required of the
assignee-beyond the limits there laid down.
In the case of 'Oldham vs. Bengan, the doctrine laid
down in Young vs. Cosby is consiergd and- affirmed, and
chief justice Bibb observes "that although du6 diligence
has hlways beefi required in such cases, yet in no cas6 has
all possible diligence been exacted."
And both these cases concur to establish this principle,
that it is not on the ground of a mere possible injury that
the assignor can claiin his discharge) much less where it.is
-imppobabk, as judge Rowan remarks in the case of Stapp
vs. Anderson, before cited. The present case presents the
drawer in a situation in which it is not only improbable, but
scar-elfy possible, that the assignor could have sustained 'an
injury. 'For a discharge under the insolvent law of t1eUnited States, is confined in its, effects altogether.to !he
particular case; and even as to that, does not exempt the
debtor's present effects, or future acquisitions, frbm "the
process of the law ;'nor is hi§ person exempt from confine-.
ment for the same debt, should he be detected in a fraud.
upon the creditor. The-bare speculative idea, then, of a
possible acquisition of property within thethirty days, during
which Voorhees might have been"compelled to await the will
.or inquiries of his creditor, and of property not. tangible by
the process of the law; is too feeble a consideration toaffect
the rights of the complainant.
The decree below will be reversed, and a decree'entered
here that the complainant recover his demand. -

Vol. II.-2 U

