380

JoN

SUPREME COURT.

'.

SATTERLEEI, "PlaTNTXFF IN EliOR .,vs. ELIZABETH MATTBHwsOm. DEFFNDAINT IN ERROR.

S. and M. held land in Luzerne county, Pennsylvania, in common, under a Connecticut title. A division'of the land was made between.them, and S. became
the tenant ofM. of his part of the land thus set off in severalty, under a lease,
to be terminated on a notice of-onie year. S. afterwards obtained a Pennsylvania title to the land leased to' him by M. and on a trial in an ejectmefit for
the land, brought by M against S., the court of common pleas of Bradford
county, Pennsylvania, held that S. having held the Iand as tenant of M., could
not set up a title against his landlord. Upon a writ of error to the supreme
court of Pennsylvania in 1825, it was held that " the relation between landlord
and tenant could not exist between persons ho ding under a Connecticut title."
The legislature of Pennsylvania, on the 8th of April 1826, passed an act declarIng that " the relation of landlord and tenant should exist and ba held as fully
and effectually between Connecticut settlers and Pennsylvania claimants, as
between citizens of the comnmonwealth." The case'came aga!r before the
supreme court of Pennsylvania, and the judgment of the court of common
pleas.of Bradford county in favour of M. the lan-dlord, was affirmed ; that court
having decided that the act of assembly of the 9th of April 1826 was a cotbstitutional act, and did not impair the validity of any contract. S'brought a writ
of error.to this Court, claiming that the act of the assembly of rennsylvania, of
the 8th of April 1826, was unconstitutional. Hled,-that the act was constitutional.
Objections to the jurisdiction of this Court have been frequently made, on the
ground that there was nothing apparent on the record to raise the queition
whether the court from which the case had been brought, had decided upon the
constitutionality of a iawio that the case was wiihin the provisions of the 25th
saction of the judiciary act of 1789. This has given occasion for a critical exam,'ation of the section, 'Which has resulted in the adoption of certain principles of construction applicable to it. One of those'principles is, that if the
repugnancy of a statute ofa state, to the constitution of the United States, was
drawn into question, or If that question was applicable to the case, this Court
has jurisdiction of the cause; although the record should not in terms state a
misconstruction of the constitution of the United States ; or that the repugnancy of the statute of.the state, to any part of that constitution, was.drawn
into question. [409]
There is nothing in the constitution of the United States which forbids the legislature of a state to exercise judicial functions. [418]
There is no part of the coi 's'ltution of the United States which applies to a state
law which divested riglts vested by law in an individual, provided its effect
be not to ,impair the obligation ofa contract. [413].
In e ease of F16tch-ur Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, it was'stated by the ChiefJustice,
that It might well be doubted whether the nature of society and of government do not prescribe some limits to the. legislative power, and he asks, "if
any be prescribed, where are, they to be found, if the property of an individual

JANUARY TERM 1829
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]
fairly and honestly acquired, Tnay h seized without compensation ?"It is no
where intimated in that opinion, that a -state statute which divests- a veited
right, is repugnant to the constitution of the United States. [ 413]

THIS case came before the court on a writ of errorto
the supreme court of the state of.Pennsylvania'.
In 1784 or 1785, Elisha Satterlee, the father of the plaintiff in error, and Elisha Matthewson, the husband of the defendant 'in error, the defendant in error being the sister of.
Elisha -Satterlee, went to a large body .of land ifi Luzerne
couhty, Pennsylvania, part of which was the land in controv.ersy, and both took possession of thd same, unaer, as is be:.
lieved, a. supposed title from the Susquehanna Company..
They worhjed on the lands in partnersfiip, the same lying-on
both sides of the Susquehanna 'river, until.1790, when it was
agreed that Matthewson, who had a house on the west side
of the river, should occupy the land before held in conmon,
on that side, and become the tenant of Satterlee for his portion of the land on the said west side of the river and Elisha%
Satterlee moved-on the lands on the east side, on precisely
the same terms : that is-, that he should become the tenant of
Matthewson for his portion of the land.Dn the said east side
of the river. By this arrangement each became possessed, in
severalty, of the particular portion of the lands thus allotted
to him, and-the tenant to the other of"portions of th " land
before held in- common'; and it was. expressly agreed thateither of the pa4rties might put an end to the.tenancy at the
end of any.one year; and in that case, each was to be put
into possession of his own lands.
In 1805 Elisha Matthewson Aied, having bequeathed by
his-will to his widow during life, and to his-children after
her death, the interest he hhd in the said land; Elisha Satterlee repeatedly, after Matthewson's death, ackno~vledged
the original bargain, and. that he was a tenant of. Matthewson's part;. but he wished to buy :it; he wished to give other
lands for it,-&c. &c.; but his sister could only sell for life,
and her children were minors. In 1810, she built a house
on part of-the tract, and put a tenant in it; but her brother
would not. give her possession of the part he had in cultivation. In 1811 she made application to the land Office of

382

SYPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Mattbewson]

Pennsylvania,, and on tie 7th of January 1812 took out a warrant in her name in trusf for her children, and had the land
surveyed, and obiained i patent for it from the commonwealth
of Pennsylvania. "She stated in her.application, an' improve-ment made by her husband in- 1785; and paid interest to the
state on the pixrthase moneys from. the date of the improvement. After his sister's.warrant, survey,.gnd Teturn,-Elisha
Satterlee purchased, a Penrnsylvania title commencing in
1769.,-and consummated by a patent from the comm.onwealth
in 178f, which he alleged covered the land in question; but
.he directed the deed to be'made'to his son, J. F. Satterle&,
the plaintiff in er-ror; and 1813 'an ejectment was instituted
in the name.of the son against the father, in pursuance of a
plan of the father's to release hi m from the situation of tenant
to his sister. By a law of Pennsylvania thefi in existdnce, but
since repealed, a ruleoof reference -might be .entered thesame day the writ was taken out, and by diligence a plaiaitiffmight obtain a report of arbitrators, which had the effect-of
a judgment, before the return-day'.of the writ;
This proceeding was, by. meas of the father's waiving all'
objections as to time ani notice,; socarried on, as that the
son not only had judgmnt, but a writ of possession before
the return of the writ.
-J, F. Satterlee then gave to his father a lease. for life of
the land for the consideration of one dollar. Elizabeih Met.thewson instituted, an 2ejectmnont. J. "F.Satterlee,ii 1817,
procured himself'to be entered do-defendaxit in the suit, and
his father being dead, is now sole defendant.
On the trial of tfie cause the defendant mide title unier
an' application-of John'Stoner of Md of April 1769. .,Stoner
conveyed to Mr Slough, who in 1780 conveyed to Joseph
Wharton.- A patent- issued to.Wharton in 1781 and he in
April*1812 conveyed to the defendant. The judge of the
court of common pleas of Bradford county -instructedthe jury"
that if they found the ejertment brought by the son of J. F.
Satterlee, in whose name, the conveyancg was -taken, was
actually instituted by the father, though in .his soi's name"
as agent tor himself, and that the suit was all a trick; and-so

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Satterlee vs. 3.atthewson.1

cQnducted'on .purpose to prevent his sister from interfering
or.being heard; .that he was stilt hei .tenant, as muclias if
no such proceeding had 'taken -place. But if the'son'was
the real purchaser, and the suit was instit t d and conducted .-bona fide, and the lease to the father during life for la,
dollar a year was b-ona fide, that. then E. Satterlee having
beenr evicted. by due course of law, might take a lease fr6m
him who recovered; and in that.case, the ielation of landlord
and. tenant, between him and his si.ster was at anend, andthe.cause must be decided upon the respective titles of the
parties. But- if they found him still a tenant, he could not
set up.'against his landlo-d an adverse title, purchased during,
his life.. But he must-restore hi5 possession to. his landlord,
and might .tIen institute a suit on the title he had purchas-.
ed; and if it was the best, rec6ver from his former landlord.
The verdict and judgment were for Mrs Maithewson.
The case, was removed-by writ of error to the supreme
court of Pennsylvania. On the argument of this cause before the supreme court, it. was decided,- Th at the rela0ion between landlord 'and tenant could not exist between
per.ons holding under aConnecticut title." And that court,
in 1825,' reversed the judgment of the common pleas and
awarded a venire facias de novo.
immediately after this decision, on-the Sth of April i826,
the legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act, by which it
was enacted, " That the relation of landlord and tenant
-should exist, 'and be held as fully and effectzally between
Cnmecdticut s.ettlersand-Pennsylvaniaclaimantsj as between
other citizens of the commonwealtA."
The .jeetmen.t depending in the court of -comnion pleas,
of-Bradford county, between tie, plaintiff in, error and the
defendant,, again came on for trial after the law of April 8,
1826, on the'Ii-th 4f May '1826; and the judge gave in charge
to the jdry a! folflows, after stating the above recited act .of
assembly, to Wit: "It is a.general principle of law,. founded
on Wise policy, that the tenant shall. not-controvert the title
of hi landlorl, and prevent the recovery of his possession,
by showing'that: the tite of the landlord is defective. Aniong

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

the exceptions to this general rule, the supreme court of
Pennsylvania have decided i that when-the landlord claimed
(as the plaintiff claimed on the former trial of this cause)
under a Connecticut title, the case should form one of the
excepted cases. The legislature have thought proper to"
enact the above recited law, and by it we are bound. And
if the, plaintiff in all other respects should be found entitled
to a recovery, the mere claiming through a Connecticut title
would not how deprive her of her right-to a recovery."
A verdict and judgment were obtained in favour of the defendant in error, Elizabeth Matthewson.
To the charge of the judge, which is inserted. at large and
sent up with the record, the defendant excepted, and the
judge signed and sealed a bill of exceptions.
* A writ of error was taken by the defendant to the supreme court of Pennsylvania, and the following were among
the errors assigned, to wit :
The court erred in charging,
1.- That by the laws of Pennqsylvania, the plaintiff's testator could lease the land, and that th.e rights of landlord* do
extend to:him; he having claimed linder a Connecticut
title.
2. That the act of the 8th of April 1826 gives a right of
recovery, and does away the force of the law, as declared by
the supreme court in this case.
On the first of July 1827, the supreme court, after argument, affirmed the judgment of the court of common pleas.
And on the 6th of July 1827, a petition and prayer. for reversal was filed by John F. Satterlee, the plaintiff in error,
who survifed Elishia Satterlee ; on the ground that the said
court had decided the said act of assembly to be constitutional and valid, though he h'ad insisted that he ought not
to be affected and barred of recovery by the said act, for that
the said act was n6t valid, and was repugnant to the constittion of -the United States.
The' cause was argued by Mr Eli K. Price, and Mr Sergeant for the plaintiff; and by Mr Sutherland, and Mr Peters
for the. defefidant.

JANUARY -TERM 1.829.

385

[Satterlbe vs. Matthewson.]:

Mr. Price, for the plintiff, contendedThere was enough apparent on the record.to sustiahe.
appellate jurisdiction of his Court.
if in fact -the act drawn in question isunconstitiojnai,'
there'is sufficient'on, the record to give jurisdiction,,bee.,use
it appears that the judge whd tried the cause instructd&-the
juiry that the act.was binding on thejn'as the -law -. in- accordance with the judge's instruction was the verdiet of the
jury, on which judgment was rendered, and that judgment
was affirmed in the supreme court of Pexinsyl-vnia, to which
this writ of error was taken.
. This is therefore a case to which the clause- of the constitution .of the' United States is applicable, and which'was
disregarded; which is all that need appear to. sustain' the
appellate jurisdicti3n of this Court. Martin vs. Hunter,'1
Wheaton, 304'; Inglee vs. Cobl-idge, 2 Wheaton, .303 ; .La
nusse vs. Barker, 3 Wheaton, 147; Miller -vs. Nicholls, 4
Wheaton, 311 ;. Williams vs. Norris, i2 Wheaton, 124;
Hickie-vs. Starkie, , Peters, 94.
-Is the act unconstitutional so far as it affects rights existing at the time of-its enactment ..
Of the prospective operation of the act we have nothing
io say, our complaint being of 'the di-v'estiture of vested
rights. These were the rights of Satterlee to the possession
of his estate, derived 'from the commonwealth, and to take
the rents axnd profits, Without liability to pay the latter or
surrender the- former to any landlord who .as such held a
Connecticht title. This was the settl~d law of the land by
the decision in this very case, when first before the supreme
court' of. Pennsylvania.. 13 Serg. 4 A, 133. This decision was evidence" of whiat the law of Pennsylvania had
always been. At no itime, therefore, did ,the relation of
landlord and tenant exist between these parties. The
claimant under the Connecticut title had no rights, and therefore was not entitled to the aid of the liberal principle, that
a tenant shall not dispute the plossession with his landlord,
though he may hold the better title. The decree of Trenton in 1782 *had settled the right to the disputed soil in the
northern border of Pefinsylvania, in-favour of that state.
VOL. II.--2 Y

386

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Nfatthewson.]

The policy thereifter pursued by that state was utterly to'
exterminate the Coinecticut claims within her borders, at
the same time that she made great sacrifices to furnish the
Connecticut settlers with Pennsylvania titles, by expending
her treasures to purchase releases frqm'the holders of them.
Among the penal acts to destroy the Connecticut' claims
were the actsof 1795 and 1802: making it highly penal
and criminal to intrude under or convey a Connecticut title.
3 Smith, 1209.-526. A more extended history of this unhappy and often bloody controversy may be found in 2 Dall.
304 ; 6 Binn..467 6 Binn. 57 ; 4 Serg. §- R. 281, and I
Binn. 110.
In the last.case it was'decided, that a vendor of a Connecticut title could not recover. from the vendee the purchase money, because the contract being in violation of the
law, the plaintiff had no rights in a court of justice. On
the same salutary principle was this case first decided.
But with the justice and sound legal principle of this decision, which lare most apparent, we have nothing to do. It
'is enough, thatby it the law was settled and a rule of. property established.. That it did establish a rule of property
-is most evident; but 'it has also" been expressly decided by
the suprem6 court of Pennsylvania. 1 Serg. - R. 521.
Under this rule of property was Satterlee protected in the
possession'.and enjoyment of his estate. By this act, if this
judgment is affirmed, will he be dispossessed of his property,
-made liable to pay the rents and profits to another, and by
the conversion of his possession into the possession of the
landlord, for ever, precluded .from regaining his estate.
Does not'this. act then impair the obligation of a contract .
The contract is the grant of'a title -from the state to Satterlee. Such a grant is a contract within the meaning' of
the constitutiorl of the United States. Fletcher vs. Peck, 6
Cranch, 87 ; Dartmouth College case, 4 Wheaton, 518. 656.
682 ; Greeh vs. Biddle, 8 TJheaton, 1. The obligation of a
contract is " -the law which binds the parties to perform
their undertaking." 4 Wheaton, '97. The uidertaking of
the state of Pennsylvania by 'her grant, to which the law
bound her, was that Satterlee should have and hold the pre-"

JAN.UABAY -TERM 1829.
[Satterlee vs. Maithewson.].

mises granted, to take and enjoy. the rents and profits there-

of, without, liability to surrender the possession-or -pay the
profits to any Connecticut claimant, through the relation of
landlord and tenant.
By- the loss of the possession,- Satterlee has been unconstitutionally divested of rights, though the right of possession might remain ii him. The possession gives theenjoyment of the rents and profits, which are equivalent to the
land itself, and by those terms a title to the land will, pass.
Possession isitself a title against every body who does not
exhibit a bettdri-title. It gives a home, which may be invaluable to the owner from the attachments created by long
*residonce, or from its being the pldce of nativity, or'the patrimony derived from a line of revered ancestors. He who
is in possession, may forcibly defend that possession,' nay,
slay the -invader of his habitation, ithout a breach. of the
.peace or the commission of a crime , while he who is out of
possession Cannot 'forcibly take possession, and if he does,
thdugh he may have the right, .will be dispossessed by the
statutes against 'forcible entry-dnd detainer.
With the title of the commonwealth in his pocket, Satter-.
lee 'has by this act been denibd the right of defending his
possession by it. ,He has been obliged .to 6onfess his possessidn to be thepos'session of an-alien claiinant, whose it never w.as,'afid" never could 'have been by any judicial aecision
that was.not suicidal to the'stats sovereignty. -He has been
bound in fealty to a landlord -to whom, if according to the'
aricient'custom he had taken the-oath of homage, it would
have been an- abjuration of his allegiance to-the state; for
that-landlord claims; in-breach of his allegian'ce, the title of
a foreigir state. Yet by this act the strong arm of the state
is to'be exerted -to -dispossess her grantee,' and to deliver it
over to the 'favoured alien, claimait who, had -asserted a title.
in criminal violation- of her laws. -And tp coinsummate -the
injustice as far asthe .most absolute power could: dtr it, hercourts of justice. are forever to be. closed agailst' a claim onher violated and useless patent.' If at i'ndividual had thus
attempted tore-a ssume the rights'he hadgranted, he would
be"met by the doctrine of estoppel. For states who have
-

388

SUPREME COURT.[Satterlee vs. Mattbewson.]

the power to execute their arbitrary will, there is no- estoppel but that which is to be found in the paramount law of
the constitution, firmly enforced by an indeperndent judiciary.
If this act had given Satterlee's estate to a claimant on a
title perfectly void, it could not have 6ommitted a more flagrant violation of justice and of the constitution ; for this
title was not only void, but could not have been otherwise
than criminally asserted.
It was an attempt by the legislature to encroach upon the
judicial power; was passed at the next session, in terms precisely the reverse of the decision of the court, and applied
to pending suits, when probably no suit but this was pending
to-which it was applicable.
If the legislature can thus, by a retrospective act, divest a"
citizen of his estate, there is no safety for our boasted rights
and liberties. It is as impossible to make laws to operate
upon the past, without the usurpation of despotic'power, as
it is to iecal the past. Law is a rule of actiow; but a law
which did not exist when an action was performed, could
not have been a rule for that action. To make a rule for it
after the action is performed; is-to substitute the will of-the'
legislature for a rule, which is despotism itself; for what. that
will may be no man can foresee, and it is the same whether
it proceeds from an Americarlegislator or an eastern despot.
The Court cannot b6 unmindful that legislative bodies sometimes act undier the impulse of. strong. and sudden excitement; sometimes inadvertently; that sometimes the good intentions of the many, xiay be misled. by the management
and intriguing talent of the few; and a case has been referred
to which shows that they are not always inaccessible to corrupt influences.
. This Court Would-not suffer counsel to argue a- queston.
so plain as that 'a legislature could not declare what a law
was. Ogden vs..Blackledge, 2 Cranch, 276. This act
changes the acknowledged' law for the past. It has decided
that state banlkrupt laws are unconstitutional in respect to
contracts made previous to their passage (Sturgess vs.
Crowninshield, -4 Wheat. 122); though constitutional in re-.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

spect to contracts made after their enactment. Ogden vs.
Sanders, 12 Wheat. 261.
Retrospective laws are invalid at common law. 7 Johns.
477; 2 Johns. 263; 13 Serg. Rawle, 353. Nor can property be taken away, not even for public use, without.compensatioll. 2 Dall. 304 ; 2 Johns. 263; 2 Johns. Cha. Rep.
162; 8 Johns. 388. The principle being the'same-at common law and under the constitution, they are applicable to
this case.
The recovery in ejectment is conclusive evidence of the
plaintiff's right to recover in an action for the mesne profits..
2 Johns. Rep. 371; 2 ]all. 156; 2 Burr. 665.
If this jhdgment is affirmed, Satterlee will lose the rents
and profits which he would have held as his own, but for the
.effect of the act in question.
In Green vs. Biddle, this Court decided laws of Kentucky
to Ne unconstitutional which deprived. the owner of a right
to recover any part of the profits on a recovery' of, his land.
The act having brought Satterlee within the operation of
the statute of limitations, if he be dispossessed by the affirmance of this judgment, it has tofally deprived him.of all retihedy. By the loss of all remedy all.right is gone. For every
right it is a maxim that there is a legal remedy for its vio-.
lation. The converse of this must therefore be true, and if
there be no remedy there is no-right.
If this Court has not decided that the destruction of all
remedy by a state law is an unconstitutional act, the several
judges have at least expressed such an opinion. C.J. Muarshall, 4 Wheatdn, 207; Justice Washington, 12 'heaton,,
271, 267; Justice Johnson, 286; Justice Thompson,. 295,
301 ; Justice Trimble, 327 ; Justice Story, 8. Wheaton, 12;and state decisions, 5 Aqmerican Law Journal,520, 8 .Mass.
423, 430, 12 Serg. §- Rawle, 358.
Mr Sutherland, for the'defendant:
The question submitted in the present case was one of
great interest;.not only to the defendant,. uut also to the free
exercise of the legislative powers of the state .of Pennsyliania. The question arose out of the adt of the assembly of

SUPREME COURT
[Satftrlee

s. Matthewsoi.J

the state, efititled "an act relating to Connecticut settlers,"
passed. the 8th day of April 1826.
On'the ease as presented by the plaintiffs, the act is alleged
to have been passed on the 28th, whereas it was in fact enacted
into a law on the 8th of April 1826. It is therefore respectfully
to.the Court as a preliminary point, whether they
submitted
witl not dismiss
the writ of error for want of certainty in the
date ,of the act; as we contend. that under the decisions
already made in this Court, it should distinctly and not- by
'ef&ence appear that a statute of a state was. drawn in
.question, upon the ground 'of its .being repugnant to the constitution of the United States, and that its-decision was in
'favour of its'validity.
,But if the Court should decide that the record presents a
case, so as clearly to bring the question before the Court;
then it is respectfully contended, 1. That the decision of
-the supreme. court of -Pnnsylvania, 13 Sergeant 4 Rawle,
133,'wa'contrary'to law-. 2. That the act of thc/legislature
of Pennsylvania; passed March 8th, 1826i was an explanatory
act, and therefore constitutional. 3. That the judgment of
the supreme' court of Pennsylvania, which. the plaintiff .in
error seeks to :reverse, did not impairbut affirmed the obligation of a valid contract, and was not against the constitution of the-United States., 4. the judgment of the supreme
court of Pennsylvania in the case now submitted to. this
Court for revision, was not.made uponthe authority of the
act~of assembly Qf the 8th of April 1826, but upon the known
and established law of th'e-state.
Itis contended, that-the first decision of the supreme court
of Pinnsylvania. was..erroneous. It appears, from looking
back -into'the early-history of Pennsylvania that a number.
of persons emigrated from the .state of .!Connecticut, .and
settled insome of the" northern countries of Pennsylvania.
They alleged thatthe charter of Connecticut, being ofan older'
date. and coveing -the soil in question, they were legally
entitle,d to -settle on the lands in question. Out of this dispute originated tle delebrafed Wyoming controversy which
produced the 'decree of Tienton, which went in favour
of :the iursdiction of the state of. Pennsylvania. A number-

JANUARY tERM "1829.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewso.]

of-jaws were passed by the legislature of-Pennsylvania relative iothe Connecticut settlers. The most important -were,
what -was denominated the "intrusion act," and the act
suspending,the oerations of the statute of limitation in that
region of country. The act to prevent intrusions was highly
penal., The first-, section provided, that if any person shall
take possession of, enter, intrude, or, settle on any lands
within the counties oifNorthampion,. Northumberland or.
Luzern& by. virtue or under colour of any-conveyance- of
half share right, or any other pretended title not derived'
under-Pennsylvania; he shall on conviction, &c. forfeit and
pay two hufidred dollars, &c. and be subject to imprisonment not exceeding twelve months.
'The 2d sectipn declared, that every person who shall con:
bine, or conspirei for the .purpose of conveying, possessing or.
settling any' lands within the limits aforesaid under any half
share1 right or.any 'pretended- title as aforesaid, or for. the laying out townships by persons 'not appointed or acknowledged
* by-the laws of -Pennsylvania,- and accessaries thereto; shall forfeit, and pay-not less than four hundred dollars and not
- more thahn'one thousand dollars, &c. &c. :and be subject -to
imprisonment'athard labour not exceeding eighteen months.
The 8th section- enacts, that on trials of indictments-for .
such intrusion, proof; that the person indicted, entered -into,
intruded, settled on, or was in possession of the land, before
the timeof finding the indictment, shall be sufficient to -convict thereof 5-unless defendant shall prove that- he or she.
entered uion, -took'possession of, and settled on. such land '
befofe the. passing of the original act, 11tfi of April .1795.When the. tase of Matthewson vs. Satterlee, 13s erg. '
Ramwe, 133, came up ,befbre the supreme court-of Pennsylvan ia,-the impression, as is evident from-the reportoftheease,
upon the minds -ofthe judges of the court, was, that:tlie intrusion act was in full operation. For it no where appears
either ,ii the argument- of counsel or the opinion of'the
Judges, that any. thing. had .been said about its re'dl. ' The
act however had, been repealed.' This opinion.was no doubt
based, upon the. case of Mitchel -vs. Smith, I Binn.. f. :..
The.plaintiff there sold the defendant a tract'of land, ying in.
-

392

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Mattbewson.]

the county of Luzerne, and held by him under a deed from a
comittee of the Susquehanna Company, under the Connecticut title, and not derived from the authority of this commonwealth or the late proprietaries of Pennsylvania; and gave
his note for $483 33 cents, payable in three years. The
suit was on the note. The principal question, says the court
iai that case, is whether this be 'a legal or illegal consideration for the bill, and whether the contract for the sale and
purchase of this land is a violation of the laws of this commonwealth, so taintirtg the whole transaction, as that this
court cannot legally afford their aid to carry ihe contract
into execution. The court say,' the mischief intended to
be-remedied by the act of the 11th of April 1795 (the'intrusion act) was of a grievous nature. A warfare had been
carried on between the claimants of land under Connecticut
and the claimants under Penrisylvania for many years, and
many lives ivere lost in the contest; the court thcn go on to
stat6 that the decree of Trenton being in favour of Pennsylvania, "the intrusion act" was passed to -enforce the rights,
of that state, and finally 'decide that the action for the note
could not be sustained.
But the intrusion act having been repealed, the case of"
Smith is now no authority; and independent of
Mitchel sd.
the repeal of the intrusion act, the djecision of the court in
1 Serg. y Rawle was erroneous, because the penalties- of
that law were never extended to apply to a case like Matthewson's. The 8th section, by special provision, excludes Matthewson from the operation of it. " No person is to be liable
to the severities of the law who could prove that'he entered
upon and took possession of, or settled' on such lands before
the passing.of the act of the IlIth of .dpril 1795. Matthewspn took possession as far back as. 1784 or 1785, ten or'eleven
years before the existence of the intrusion act.
•In the course of a short time after the repeal of the intrusionacti the law suspending the operatidn of the staitute of
limitation in this section of the commonwealth, was also repealed; This was the last and only act remaining upon the
'statute book, to.the prejudice of the Connecticut settler& So
that if Matthewson 'had not ever settled upon these lands, and

JANUARY TERM 1829,
[Sattdilee vs. Matthewson.]

leased them tc.Satterlee,' ong -prior to these..enactments,
framed for: the purpose of preventing any more intrusion
from the settlers bf New England; yet, their total and unqualified repeal, afterwards, would have been suficient to
entitld him to the lenefits of all the laws to whlk-. other'
persons settling in Pennsylvania were entitled. Under this
view of the facts connected with this case, we have but one
mode left for accounting for the decision of the supreme
court of Pennsylvania, and that is the one heret6fore adverted to; by supposing that the repeal of "the intrusion act,".
as well as ".the act .suspending the operation. of the limitation act,!' had not.reached them. Certainly their repea is
not to be collected either from .the argument or opinion of
the court, in the case of Satterlee vs. Matthewson, 13 Sergeant k Rawle. It being therefore, eyidently, an oversight
on the part of the court, we contend that the act.of the 8th.
of April 1826, became necessary to effectuate justice between the parties, and to declare what i v? !eally the law at
'the time the erroneous decision of the court was pronounced.
We therefore maintain the position, that the act of.the 8th of
April is constitutional.
Indeed it is nothing more than a-declaratory or explanatory act. It was but a re-enactment of what was understood
in that part Qf the state to have been the laIn from the year
1785 down to1813, and certainly ever since the repeal of
the acts df restriction. Sureiy,.an undisturbed practicefor
twenty-eight or thirty years, during which period no tenant
in the situation of Satterlee had brought a case of the kind
into a court of jaw, ought alone to settle this question in favour of Matthewson; and to have satisfied the supreme court
of Pennsylvaniar, that tha title of ihe landlord, obtained. prior
to the.intrusion act, could not. be contested by his -tenant,
But Satterlee became- the tenant of Matthewson pr.pr tO
the act of intrusion; and when the law was passed,- exempting Matthewson from the effects of the'intrusion act; Satterlee was his tenant.
By.referrinjgto the act of the.8th of April, it will. Le found,
that its provisions are to apply to the- Iftrial of any cause
Vor. I.-2
Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

theA pending, or hereafter to be brought ;".and it is a.lleged,
that its applicatiop to a cause in court, proves it tobe iinconstitutional; and that it wears none of the features-of an explanatory. act. It is not necessary to- 6al -an act in its
titlean explanatory' act, to make it so. If in its design and
effects it is explanatory, that is sufficient. Ifthe law of the
8th of April had .not applied to the cause in court it would
not have remedied the evil. This was the only cause of the
kind that had ever been decided, and the Legislature. being
satisfied that the court had misapprehended the meaning of
the law, passed this act by way of explanation.
Again, it has beensuggested that this act violates the obligation" of a contract,.and affects vested rights; because -it
"does away the force of the law, as decided by the supreme
couit in this case."
In 15 Sergeant 8f Rawle, our. present, case, the court say
that.the case of.Overton vs. Tracy,, reprted in 14 Sergeant
4, Rawle, virtualy overrules the decision in 13 Sergeant 4.
Rawle of Satterlee and Matthowson, which decides that a
tenant may'resist the title of.his Connecticut landlord. So
far therefore as the judgment of the supreme court has decided the law, it'is in our favour. For it appears, that in
the very next volume of reports, a-case is decided virtually
revoking the former decision.- They had no vested rights
under the first judgment of the court, as it was an erroneos
one. This question would have never reached this Court,
nor-would we have heard of the infringement ofvested rights,
if thb supreme court had not given an'incorrect opihionin
,the first instance.
But let us look at the law, as it stood between Satterlee
and MatIOewson. Matthewson leased the property in-question. to Satterlee. It was also agreed that either of the parties might.put an end .tothe tenancy at the end of one year.
All this took place when there was no act in existence
,against Connecticut settlers in Pennsylvania; on the contrary1 'many of the New England men had. gallantly defendeAi tfie northern borders of the state, where this land is
flodated, from Indian barbarities, and many of them lost their
lives there.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Satterlee ps. Matthewson.]

Under such circumstances, no' one could imagine that the
men, who thus exposed.t--'-'all in defenice of their' settlemnts, could be driven from them afterwards by honest or
upright legislation. Hence we find the assembly of Pennsylvania, in 1784, passed an. act for restoring possessions'
from which the Connecticut settlers had been removed. 7
Smith, 531. And when they enacted the law to prevent intrusion from new.emigrants, they cautiously and with a just
iegard for good faith, declare, that their enactments shall
not apply to thbse who resided .there before'the passage of
the law. Both' Matthewson and- Satterlee had'been there
from ten to twelve years before the -act adverted to had
been passed. By.excluding the prior settlers and defenders
of the state from the operation of the- intrusion act, they
virtually passed a law'preventing them from disturbance in

their possession. And as such, they-were entitled to all the
benefit of the laws of the state. During this time of peace and
quiet, the lease-was made; and all the inhabitants of Pennsylvania were subject to the same laws. At that 'time the
tenant could not resist the .title of his landlord. He wa7s
bound to 'deliver up possession, if.he-claimed through or by
an outstanding title. We hesitate, therefore, not to say, that
tle act of the legislature -f the 8th of April 1826; violated
no'-contract; but on the contrary it k'evented injustice by
sustaining a- contract, made upoV Th' purest principles of
good faith.
Mr Peters, for the.defendant, contended that there is nothing in the record to show upon.what principles the supreme
court of Pennsylvania decided the case, or what in fact was
the decision of the court. The- facts of thd case may be
found on the papers which come up wiih the' record, but
there is no certificate by the clerk that the same are part of
the proceedings of the cause. The 'certificate signed by
the clerk affirms nothing more'than the docket entries; and
to all the papers in the -case the clerk's certificate has no
application.
If by the law of Pennsylvania, a judge who tries a cause

SUPREME COURT.
[attedee ti. Maithewson.]

is bound to file his opinion, and the same when filed-becomes
a part of the record; the law enjoins this duty only when the
judge is so required; and there does not appear to have been
any request in this case. 5 Smith, 197. Neither does the
record show that the paper, which purports to;
be the opinion
of the court, *as filed by the judge. Its, language would
authorise the assertion that it had been drawn up by another.
Nor'do the exceptions to the charge of the court of common
pleas, which were presented' bfore the supreme court, exhibit the particular matters whici are presented to this Court
as ground of error in the coiirt of Pennsylvaniaw; and if this
Court are to consider these* exceptions as bringing up the
whole .charge'bf the judge of the court of common pleat,
they Will have to decide upon the relevancy of all the matter-in the qharg, and to review tl-e same3 some of whicl
this Court are not judicially com'petent to examine.
Thus, therefore, as the charge of the court'is not legally
upon-the record, and there is no exception, which is-sustained by the actual or certifi.d record, nothing is before the
Court in the form of assigned errors, upon which they can
form an opinion. Again, unless in the, form~of instructionsto the jury, the opinion or charge of 'the court can, in no
case constitute a parf of the record.
IIn Williams vs. Norris, 12- Wheaton, 117, this point was
explicitly decided as has. been tated. The law of Tennessee, like that -of Pennsylvania, requires the judges to file
their opinions, in writing) among the papers of the cause. " We do not deny 'the right of this Court to decide upon
the constitutionality of a law of a state, 'Where the quesion
is fairly and regularly presented for determination, according to the provisions of the act .ofcongress, and the settled
rules of this Court; -nor that an -act of 'astate is unconstitutional if it impairs the obligation of a contract;- nor that
the grant of titles*to lands by a state, is a contract within
.the meaning of the'const itutional provision.
All the principles claimed by the bounsel.f6r the plaintiff
inerror upon these points, are therefore entirely conbeded.
But admitting all these principles, it.
is submitted, that
-

-

-

JANUARY,-TELM 1829.
[Satterlee us. Matthewson.]

this i's not such a case as.comes within them, or as- this
Court pan judicially notice.
To constitute such a case, it must appear trom.the Tecord,
that the censtitutionality of the law of the state has been
drawn in question, and that the decision of the- court was
ir favour of its 6alidity, Martin vs. Hunter's lessee, I
Wheaton, 304. 323. 352.
The judgment of the state court, to be reviewed in this
Court, must not only appear to have been on the velidiiy of
tde-legislative act; but it-must also appear that the judgment
of this Court wag upon no other point. If, on the record, it
appears that. the -court-of this state may havc decided upon
the rights if the parties before them, without deciding upon
the constitutional questibn, and it is not expressly shown
that the judgment was upon the constitutionality 'of the law
alone, this Court will not take jurisdiction.
This is in precise harmony with all the principles which
have governed this Court., and the course of its proceedings..
It always respects the decisions of state courts Upon the
laws of the -state, and reluctantly interferes with them. -"
This record presents a case in which 'the judgment of
.the court may have been. 'upon a questionj in which the
constitutionality 6f the law of -Pennsylvania, of the 8th of
April 1826, was not involved.
Two exceptions were made to the charge of the court of
Bradford county, before the supreme court.
1. That by the law of Pennsylvania the plaintiff's testator
could lease the, land, and that the -rights of landlord extended' tO him.
2. That the act of the 8th of April 1826 gives a right of
recovery, and does away the force of the law, as declared
by the supreme court.
I Under the first proposition the inquiry was, what was the
law of-Pennsylvania in relation to these parties. They were
landlord and tenant, and'unless there was a 'special law
exempting them from the'obligations of this relation, all
the rights of landlord did apply to the defendant in ejectment, The-supreme court of.Pennsylvania had said in 1825,
that this law did not apply. This was the question for the

398

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee pa. Matthoweon. ]

dtrmination of the supreme court in the present'case, aid
they decided' that the former decision.of the -samecourt was

erroneous.
Had. they aot a right to .overrule the former decision of
the court ? This :will not be denied. That this was the fact
and that the court so 'overruled the former* decision, is
manifest from the opinion of the court.
Thus it is manifest that tle opinion of-the' supreme court
in the case before this Court, was, that by the laws of Pennsylvania the plaintiff' testator cQuld lease the land, and that
the rights of landlord did extend to him.
Upon this principle the judgment of the court could have
been, and was in favour of the defendant in errori without
touching the question of the-validity of the law of the 8th
of April 1826. And this decision 'was'in conformity with
all the principles which had governed the legislature of
Pennsylvania, in relation to the Connecticut claimanfs.
At no period did the legislature deny to thbse claimants
the benefits of all the principles of law, except when. the.
preservation of her own rigbts and the performance of her
own contracts made it absolutely necessary; and the moment
that ne'cessity ceased, she released her restrictions and at
length-entirely r~moved them.
The Connecticut settlers had- always been'indulgently.
-considered by the legislature, until after the decision of the
case of Vanhorn's lessee vs, Dorance in 1795, 2 Dall. 304.
The decree of Trenton in1783, had settled the jurisdiction 6ver the land-to be in Pennsylvania; but until 1795,-it
was not judicially settled that the right of soil was in Pennsylvania, and that the Connecticut grants were void. After
the decree of Vrentoni violent measures were'resorted to by
the Pennsylvania claimants to oust the Connecticut settlers.
'-In 1784 the legislature of the state passed an act to stay
aid. prevent these proceedings; It was at this, period that
Matthewson settled on the land, under a Connecticut title,
but finver asserting it under a Pennsylvania title. In 1784,
ain act offe'ring general amnesty to all those who as Connecticut-claimants had violated the peace of ihe state. In 1787

JANUARY TERM 1829.

399

[Satterlee vsi Matthewson.I

an act was passed .confirming certain Connecticut -claims,
w.hich act wassuspended in 1788, and .epealed in -1790.
The title fPennsylvania to the soil being fully established, by the decision of the court in 1795, Vanhorn vs. Dorance, the state of Pennsylvania then passed the intrusion
act, referred" to by the plaintiff's counsel.
' This. law was not retrospective. It applied only to settlers
after its date. It continued in force until January. 1814,,
when it was repealed. 6 Snith, 122.
In 1813 the. le'islature repealed the law which had suspended the operation of the act of limitatibnq, .Smith; 61;
and thus; ihoe, who -came.
in undei.Connecticut claimswere
restored t"all the rights of -citizens of the state, and to the
enjoyment of all the laws of the state. Well therefore migfit
the.cqurt in. this case reprobate the decision, before given,
which was against' all the spirit of. legislation so emphatically declared by the state; and say that it was not law. •
That court in .the following term, June 1826, had therefore overruled, their former decision. Tracy vs. Overton,, 14
Serg. 8f Rawle, 311. In'that.case it,was held, that.an improvement miade under a Oonnecticut title was
an object of
purchase, and th'ey affirmed the obligation of the mortgagor
wh6 had made the.purchase,
These views.'show conclusively that the.court thought the
supreme court in 1825 was mistaken; and that the law was
not as they declared it.
Until the decision of the supreme court of Pennsylvania"
is overruled,'it will be respected by this Court. This is conclusive to the case.
2d point. The counset-for the plaintiff .in error say, that.
the supreme courtof Pennsylvania. have violated the constitution of the United States,. because they have decided,
that the-act of the. 8ih of April. 1826 gives a right of 'recovery,.and does away the force of the law as declared by the
supreme court.'
It is no where .found on.the record that the court have
said so.
All that the record containrs is, that five'errors in the
charge of the cotirt of Bradford county were assignel, 'and

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Mattbewson.]

that the court gave judgment for the defendant in that court,
he being the plaintiff below..
The. language of the exception is such as deserves notice
The court are said to have declared that the act of assembly does away the force of the law, .as declared by the supreme court. 'Not that the act of assembly does away the
law oftheland. This is saying that the act of 1826 was, as
in truth it was, a ,declaratoryact. There can be no doubt
of the right of a legislature to pass a declaratory act.
A reference-to the opinion of the court-will shoiv that this
was their decision.
The act of 1826 is said fo be unconstitutional, because it
impaired a contract: but what is the contract which the
coiunsel assert to be impaired 7.
The right which settlers had to the possession of the land,
under the title obtained- in 1812 by purchase from Wharton, is said to be affected, and the contract under the patent
said to be irpaired. Look at the situation of
for the state is'
the parties. They both settled in 1784, or 1765; under a
Connecticut title. If neither could acquire any legal possession under that title, they stood in the same situation up to
the 10th of January 1812; -vhen Eliziabeth Matthewson took
out a warrant for the land, and obtained a-patent on the 19th
of February 1813.
If the warrant and. survey under the state of Pennsylvania
carries with it'a contract for possession, E. Matthewson was.
to have the benefit of that contract; and the possession of
Satterlee being an illegal one, she must be deemed to. be.in
possession.
After this, or after the warrant to Matthewson, Satterlee
bought of Wharton a title derived from the commonwealth
by patent, in 1781, and which had lain dormant from that
time thirty-one .years.
He now say§ that the law of Pennsylvania, of the 8th
of April 1826, has divested him of his possession. This pos-.
session- was not a possession which was lawful.
The possession upon which the act of assembly operated,
was one which the party couldnot avail himself of in a court
of Pensylvania. The act of assembly, therefore, ingiving

JANUARY TERM 1829.

401

[Satterlee vs. Natthewsoa.]

to the heirs of Matthewson the rightb of landlord, impaired no
part of the contzact of the state, under Wharton's patent.
It only, took away a disability, if any existed, as between
'the two persons who held-under the Connecticut possession.
.-That act left all the rights derived under Wharton's patent unimpaired.
S.Ejectm'ent might have been. brought, and may noiv be
brought. -And unless the.act of 1813 is retrospective, which
jtcannot be, there is no possession to bar a recovery.
'This'View puts the case out of all the perils-it would stand
in, if the law interfered with" the rights of Satteriee*unaer
the state. It'isearne.stly presentedtothe consideration of
t&e Coui't; that tliact' of assembly which.is said to be unconstitutional by impairing a contract, has no 'such operal
tib." It'leaves the contract of the .state under the patent to
Wharton untouched, and the plaintiff' 'in error to the assertion of all his 'rights derived under it.- -It does no morethaii
declare, that the'contract between the plaintiff'and defendant, as landlord and tenant; shall operate upon them, aud
thus it affirms, instead of lmpairing the obligation' of a coniract,'
'From.these* views it isf aimed:
-1.'Tht' the'recora dbes not exhibit a case for the conside,.
ration, of this Court.
.. The decision of the court of Pennsylvania was upon
the general law of the land, and not on the act of 'assembly.
- .'The act of the 8th of April 1826 was a constitutional
law, and did not impair, but affirmed a contract which waslawful; and has been since declared to have been so;by the
highest judicial authority of the state.
Mr Sergeant, in reply.
1. As to the jurisdiction of the Court to'entertain a.writ
of error in this'case under the' 25th section' of the judiciary
act.-It appears that, in the court of common pleas, the act.
of the.8th of April 1806 was relied' upon by the plaintiff
below. The court' charged the jury that it was a 'binding
act; To tiis Charge the defendant excepted, and the judge
signed and sealed the 'bill .ofexceptions, Was this error!
VnL. If.- 3 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Sattetlee vs. Matthewson.]

If it was, the court above, by affirming the judgment, adopted the error, and affirmed the constitutionality of the law.
That it ivas'material to the decision, cannot be doubted,
but the proof of its materiality does not lie upon the plaintiff. The rule upon this subject is laid dQwn with great
precision in Etting vs. Bank of the United States, 11 Wheat.
59. "But if he (the judge) proceed-to state the law" (though
not bound to do it), "and state it erroneously, his opinion
ought to be revised, and if it can have had any influence on
the jury, their verdict ought to be set aside." It is necessary, therefore, for those who allege that an erroneous opinion of a judge in his charge to a jury, is not examinable in
error, to show that it could not have had any influence on
fhe jury.
But it is manifest-that thb opinion expressed in the court
of common pleas, that the act oif assembly was a bini~ing act,
had a decisive influence 'on the issue of the cause. It cut
off all defence, by making the defendant tenant of the plaintiff. It was so considered by court and counsel; and it was
the very ground of reversal of the previous judgment. 13
Serg. 4f 1awle, 133.
The exceptionable opinion thus expressed, sufficiently
appears. It was filed of record, which in Pennsylvania is
sufficient to subject it to revision in the superior court.
Downing vs. Baldwin; I Serg. §- Rawle, 298. It is set out,
too, in a 'bill of exceptions signed and sealed by the judge.
The supreme court, therefore, could not avoid passing upon
it. They did pass upon it;. and* thus it became a final decision of the " highest court" in the state, to which a writ
Sof error lies fiom this Court.
Does it sufficiently appear that the constitution of the
United States came in question q This is the only remaining
inquiry under this head, and it is settled by decisions heretofore made. JIt is not necessary, to found the jurisdiction,
that it should-appear that the constitutiop, or an act of congress, or a treaty, was insisted upon. It is sufficidnt, if it
be seen that either of them-was applicable to the case.
Miller vs. Nichols, 4 Wheat. 311. Williams vs. Norris, 12
Wheat. 124. Rickey vs.' Starkie, 1 Peters, 98. But it is

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[SUeree vs. Matthewson.]

very apparent, that the uncopstitutionality of-the act was insisted upon in both courts. The charge was excepted to in
the common pleas, on the ground that 'it stated the act to
be binding. In the supreme court, it was evidently prei.
sented in the first and second errors assigned. It appears,
also, that the suit was brought in 1817, so that the act passed
after the commencement of the action; and it furtherappears
from the charge, what the former decision bad been upon,
the same alleged'lease, before the act was: pdssed. The
judge decided (and the supreme cqurt" of Pennsylvania
affirmed the decision), that the court and jury were bound
by. the .act.. if it was .unconstitutional, it was no law, and
thy were not bouid by it.' He therefore decided that it,
,was not unconstitutional. The question is thus directly
brought before this Court, and it is the only questiqn in the
record which ii examinable here'.
".Is this act then a, 6onstitutional act, consistent with
the Ponutution ofthe United States !. Before the,act passed
there.was no subsisting lease betwden the parties* The act
created one. Satterlee vs. Matthewson, 13 Serg. 4.Rawle,
i 3& It was impossible that any valid, lease. could- be. derived from, or founded upon a Connecticut title. That title
was from the beginning adverse to the sovereignty of Pennsylvania, was maintained by force, was treated by the laws
of Pennsylvania Vs hostile, and its'assertion as ciininal.
For proof of this position, he referred to the histoiy of the
controversy, the decree of Trenton which settled"the right,
and the.various laws of Pennsylvahii which prohibited, und.r
severe pen lties, every form of Connecticut title, of derivation from it, or possession under it. He referred also to ju-. dicial decisions, to show that every contract growing out of
it was void, and especially to Mitchell vs. Smith, I Binlni
110, and the preamble of the act -of 1802 -3 Smith, 525.
The period of settlement or claim under that title made.no
diffierence. -The act of -1795, it was true, gave peculiar
powers, in certain cases, to punish and remove. certain, i.n,truders. But all were intruders, not- upot private rightmerely, but upon the state- sovereignty, who came in or

404

.oFREiME COURT.
[Safterlee vs..Matthewson.]

'continued, under pretence of Connecticut right; and as such
they viere public .disturbers, obnoxious to, public chastisement. -So, they were always considered, both in the legislation.and in the judicial decision- of Pennsylvania. Overton
vs. Tracy, 14 Serg. 4,Rawkl, a.11 ;was not-to the contrary..
It only decided that it was not unlawful and criminal for the
owner of a Pennsylvania title voluntarily to pay a Conneeticut settler for his improvements. That case, admits that
it would be unlawful to buy the title.
Independently then of the act in question, there could be
no relation of landlord" and tenant, because there could -be
no valid lease. The act creates.the relation, in 4 pending
suit. It was a law to alter the rights of property between
individuals without their .consent, so as to give to one a right
to recover from the other which he had not before. It
works this result, by making a new rule to govern between
the parties,'so that A. shall be -enabled by means of it to
recover the Rroperty of B. In other words, itenables A. to
turn B. out of the possession of his freehold. This is precisely equivalent to a law declaring that A. shall -have B.'s,
*property without his consent. Such a law, penned in plain
terms, woul1l excitb universal abhorrence in. every one wh&
has the least feeling of respect for individual rights.. It is
not the less dangerous and objectionable, for being more in•directly accomplished.
This act does not profess to be declaratory. If it did, it
wquld still .be-objeCtionable. To expound laws is .ajudicial, and not a legislatiie function. Ogden vs.Blackiedge,
2 Cranch,277. But, admitting the law to b6 as it had been
laid down by theisupreme'court, it changes the law, as to
existing cases, so as to divest vested rights. To dothis, it
makes that rightful and valid-which befoie was wrongful
and void. It creates a lea'se where none before existed. It
makes one a landlord and th'e other a tenant creating for
each. the capacities and disabilities belonging to that cha-'
It carries this back for thirty-five years. It thus
ractert.
makep A.'s possession the possession-of' B.; and introduces
the statute -of limitations as a bar, Thus, it creates lease,
-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[attedee vs. Matthewson.'

tenancy; *possession, bar; and completely changes the whole
case. The effect is precisely this, that Satterlee shall have
no defence in the pending suit.
This cannot be called judicial legislation. It is neither
judgment nor legislation, but more. Neither does it merely
exercise appellate power. It makes a case for a party to
insure a recovery in an existing ese. It is an exercise of
power, neither legislative, executive or judicial, lut arijitrary. The intention of the legislature is not material.
The time when this act was, passed, a few days before"the
end of tle session, warrants a belief that it'was not much
considered'. But, though the legislature did not so intend;
it was' clearly devised for this very case. The haste with
which it, was carried -to the common pleas of Bradford
county, immediately after it- was. passed, and before the
laws-of the sepsion could have been published, 'is proof of
its design. Itwas meant for this case..
Is such an 'act constitutional q
1. It is a violation of contract. In 1781, the state sold
the. land to Mr Wharton, who paid for it; and granted him
by patent aft estate in fee simple. In 18-12, he sold -to John
F. Satterlee, who succeeded to all his rights. Thus, Sat-.
terlee held by'contract of the state who sold the -land.
Could' the state 'resume the grant
'No. Fletcher vs"
Peck, 6 Cranchj, 57. 131. If the state could not resurpe:
the grant, could she grant it to another! - That would, in
fact, be a resumption ; for she could not grant withoutv as'sumingth'e dominion over the land.. Such a,proceeding isentirely inddfensible,- and is used as the strongest illustration of what rightfid legislation cannot accomplish, by
Justice Patterson - in Vanhorne vs. Dorrance, 2,Dall. 304,
and Justice Chase itCalder 'Vs. Bull, 3 Dull. 356.
Can. the state,'then, rightfully resume any' part of the do-'
minion over the"land . The answer is implied iii the.-univ6rsality of the former proposition. She has 'parted with'
the whole. -To resumb:a part violates the contract of saleas much..as toregume 'the.whole: Can the state' grant any
part of it 9 Certainly not. 'Can.she, by lier me're authority,
impose upon it any incumbrahce . subject it to mortgage,

SUPREME COURT.
[Satteree t3s, Matthewson.]

judgment or lease .1 .Can the state alter the relation of the
owner to his property, or make, him less than an owner, or
less than a tenant in fee simple . Can she, directly or indirectly, deprive him of his title, his possession, or right. of
possession !. Either is inconsistent with the grant, and. a
violation of the contract. These deductions are all legitimately and unavoidably made from .thefirst princiile. Now,
this act of'assenbly does take from the owner-his possessioA
and his right of possession, and transfers them to another.
It, therefore, violates the contract and transcends the just
powers. of legislation. If this can be done, what limit shall
be. assigned to the power !. The truth, is, that the act gives
Matthewson a title.

That is its effect.

It takes away the

right of Satterlee. It is the same exercise, of power, as to
declare that a valid, lease should be void, or a younger
grant better than an older one.
2. it is retrospective and expost facto. There are three
provisions in the constitption which,. in defining the limits
of legislative power, ought to be taken together :--.'The guar
antee of a republican .government,' in the 4th section of the,
4th article,- which secures the .distributi'n of legislative, ex'ecttive and judicial~authoiiy; the prohibition to the states
of the power to pass bills of attainder,.ex post facto laws and:
laws impairing the6 obligation of contract*, in the loth section
of thb 5th article ; and the fifth amendment,. ;estrihting the
exercise of the power of the eminent domain. They were
intended, together',, effectually-to secure: the political and
civil- rights of the citizen, and to. protect from .legislatile
encroachment. -They ought ilways fcobe liberally construod
in favour of the'rights of the.citizen. 'Opinion of 4idge. 3hn-.
son, 12 'fleaton,-256. These prpovisionswereintended.tq
be -equal and invariable in their operationi and to embrace
all cases of unjust legislation affecting the property or liberty
of individuals. Retrospective laws are always unjust, and
are contrary to the fundamental Principles of oir sbcial com- '
pact. In. these cliusos of the constitufion regard.must be
had to the spirit. Suppose 'a law. were.to declare a valid
lease void. This would impair the obligation of theon',•tract between the parties., Suppose a law to declare a void

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

lease valid. Precisely-the same injustice is done.- Will the'
constitution be- satisfied with a distinction between them,
when there is no diffeience q The -pirit of the constitution
abhors it. Private -property cannot be taken, even for .public use, without full compensation and process of law. 'To
affect the rights of property in any other way, was deemed
to be beyond the power of legislation, and therefore the
,guard is applied to th6 taking for public use. The -other
partt of the constitution had done the rest.
Retrospective laws, violating the rights of property, are
contrary to the contract of any society established upon a
republican basis.' .They not only impair, they break it. The'
great- object of our. constitution is to preserve individual
rights, not to destroy them. There is no power in the government but what is given for this end. The- freedom of
the citizen, the enjoyment of his own without disturbance
or interference, are what constitute his happiness; and in a
government where that is consulted, constitute his rights.
They are sacred, and .ought not to be interfered with.
Mr Justice WASHiNGTON delivered 'the opinion-of the

Court.
This is a writ of error to the supreme court of Pennsylvania, An ejectment was commenced by the defendant in
error in the court of common pleas against Elishia Satterlee
to recover the land in -controversy, and upon the motion -of
"tli'6 plaintiff in error, he was admitted as herlandlord, a defendant to the suit. The plaintiff, at the trial, set up a title
undei' a warrant dated the 10th of January 1812, founded
upon ar'improvement in- the year 1785,- which it was admitted .was under a Connecticut title, and a patent bearing date
the 19th of February 1813.
-The defendant claimed 'ttle'under a patent issued to
Wharton in the year 17P1, and a conveyance by him to John
F. Satterlee in April 1812. It was contended on the part
of the plaintiff, that admitting the defendant's title to .bethe
oldebt and best, yet he was stopped from setting it. up in
that suit, as it appeared in edidence that he had come into
possession as teqant to the plaintiff sometime.in the year

-

SUPREME COURT.
fSatterZee vs. Matthewson.]

1790. The court of common pleas decided in favour of the
plaintiff upon the ground junst "stated, and judgment was accordingly rendered for her. Upon 'a writ of error to the
supreme court of that state, that court decided, in June
1825, 13 Serg. 4 Rawle, 133, that by the settled law of
Pennsylvania, the elation of landlord and tenant could not
subsist under, a Connecticut title ; upon which ground the
judgnent was reversed and a venire, facias de novo was
aw'arded.
On the 8th of April 1626, and before the second trial of
this'cause took place, .the legislature of that state-passdd a
laW' in substance as follows; viz. "'that the relation of' landlord and tenant shall exist, and be held ag fully and effectually between Connecticut settlers and Pennsylvania claimants, as" between -other citizens of this commonwe'alth, on
the trial of any cause niow pending, or hereafter to be
brought within this. commonwealth,. any law or usage to the
contrary xiotwithstanding."
Upon the retrial of this cause in the inferior qourt in May
1896, evidence was givea conducing to prove, that the land
in dispute was, purchased of Wharton by Elisha 8atterlee,
the father of John F. 8atterlee, and :that by his direction,
the conveyance was made to the son. It further appeared
in evidence, that the son brought an ejectment against hi
father in the 'year 1813, and' by some contrivance between
.those parties, alleged by the plaintiff below to be merely
colourable.and fraudulent, for the purpose of depriving her
of her possession, obtained .a judgment and execution 'thereon, uhder which the possession was delivered to. the plaintiff in that suit;,who immediately afterwards leased the premises to the father for two lives, at a rent of one-dollar per
annum. 'The fairness'of the transactions was 'made a question on the trial; and it-was asserted by the plaintiff that,
notwithstanding the'eviction of Elisha Satterlee under the
above proceedings, he still continued to be her tenant;
* The judge, after noticing in his charge the decisioti of
the supreme-court-in 1825,. arf the act of assembly before
recite8l, stated to the jurd the general principle of law,
which prevents a tenant from controverting the title of his

JANUARY TERM 1829.
.Sattel.ee vs. Matthewson.]

lAndlord bj-showing it to.be defective-, the exception to that
principle -where the lan4ord clainis'under a-.Connecticut
-title, as laid down. by.the.above decision, and the effect of the
act of assembly upop. that decision, which act he pronounc-ed to *be binding qn the Court. - He. therefore concluded,
and so charged the jury, that if-they should be satisfied.from
the evidence, that the transactions between, the.two Satter,
lees before -mnaioned, were bona fide, ald that John F.
Satterlee was the actual purchaser of the land; thef-the de.fendapts might set up the eviction as a. bar to the.plkintiff's'
recoyery as'landlord. But that if the jury should be satisfied
that'.those transactions were collusive, andtthat-Elisha Satteilee 4vas in fact the .real purchaser; and the.name-of.his
son inserted in the deed foi the fraudulent-purpose of 4.estroyibg.the.right.of the.plantiff,'s-ladlod; then the merely
dlaidiing ,under a Connecticut -title, w6uld.not deprive her.of
her. -Ight to recoyer. ithat suit.
To. tiis charge, of which .the substance .6nly has 'been
stated, an excepti6n- w's taken, and the-whole of it is spread
upon the.record. The juiy found a verdict for th plaintiff;
and.judgment being rendered for her, the cause was.,again
taen to'.the.supreme court by a writ of error:.
The only question which occurs in this cause,, which it:is
competent To this.Couri to decide is, whether the statute of
Pennsylvania which has, been mentiohed, of the .8th 6fApril
182§, is or i. not .objectionable, on the ground of-its repugSiancy.,to ihe constitutiod.6f the United States! But before
t.hisinquiry is gone into, it will be proper: to- disp'seof a
preliminary objection made to the .jurisdiction of this Court,
upon the ground that there is nothing. apparent on this fecord -to raise that.'question, or..otherwise .to bring this case
within any of the lrovisions of'the 25th section of the.judi-:
cia'y.Tct1
of P789.
Questions of this naturehave. frequently occurred.in this
.Court,. and- have given occasion for a,critical examination of
the. above section, which 'has resulted in the adoption ofcertain principles, of construction applicable to it,by whiph the
'objection now. to be considered may, without much difficuilty, be, 'decided. 2.Weaton,. 363... 4 Wheaton,3 11. 12
VoL. T..-.3 B

410

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

Wheaton, 1-17. One of- those principles is, that if it sufficiently appear from the record itself, that. the repugnancy
of a statute of a state to the constitution of the United States
was drawn into question, or that that question was applicable to the case, this Court has jurisdiction of 'tJie cause under
the sect-ion of the act referred to;, although the record should
not, in' terms, state a misconstruction of the constitution of
the United States, or that the repugnancy of the statute of the
state'to any part of that constitution was drawn into question.
•Now it is manifest.from this records not only that the constitutionality of the statute of the 8th of April 1826, was
drawn into question, and was applicable to the case, but that
it was so applied by the judge, and formied the basis of his
opinion to the jury, that - they should find in favour of the
plaintiff, if in other respects she was entitled to a verdict.
It is equally mafiifest that the right of the plaintiff to recover
in that action depended on that statute; the effect of which
was to change the law, as the supreme court had decided it
to be in this very case in the year 1825.. 13 S. 4 R. 133.
That tiF.charge of the judge forms 'a part of this record
is unquestiobable. It vias made so by the;bill of exceptions,
and would have been so without it,. under the statute of the
24th of FeBrtiary 1806, of that state; which directs, that in
all cases .in which the opinion of the'court shall bedelivered,
if either party require-itt, it is made the duty.of the judges'
to reduce the opinion, with their reasons therefor, to writing,.
and to file the same of record in the cause. In th6 case of
Downing qs. Baldwin, 1 Serg. 8f Rawle, 298, it was-deqided
by the supreme court of Pennsylvania, th ± the opinion so.
filed becomes part gfthe r4cord, and that any error in it may
be taken- advantage of on-a writ of error without a bill of
exceptions.
It will be sufficient to add that this opinion" of the court
of common pleas' was, uppf
writ of efror, adopted and
affirmed by the-supreme court; and it is the judgment of'
thiat court upon, thefjint so decided by the inferior court;
aid not the reasoningoftejudgesupon it, which this Court
is now called upon to revisq.
. We comeow to themain quxstion in this cause. Is the'
-a

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Safterlee vs. Matthewson.]

*act which is objected to, repugnant to any ,provision of the
constitution of the United States! It is alleged to be so
by the counsel for the'plaintiff in error, for a variety, of
reasons; and particularly, because it impairs the obligation
of the. contract between the state of Pennsylvania and the
plaintiff who claims title under her--grant 'to Wharton, as
well as of the contract between Satterlee and Matthewson;
because it. cieates a contract between parties where nobe
previously existed, by' renderifg that a biwding' contract
which the law of the land. had declared to be invalid ad
-because it operates to divest "and deftroy the vested rights
of theplaintiff.' Another. objection relied upon is, that in
passing thaact in .question, the .legislature exercised those
functions which belong exclusively to the judicial branch of
the government.,
I Let these objections be considered. :The grant to Wharton bestowed upon him a -fee simple estate in the land
granted, togethbr with all -tle rights, priviileges' and advintages which, by the laws of Pennsylvania, that instrument
-might legally pass. Were any of those right.s, which it is

-

admitted vested in his.vefdee or alieneo, disturbed, or 'impaired by the act under consideration?' It does not-appear
-from the record; or even from the reasoning of the judges
of either-court,' that thdy were" in any instance denied; or.
even drawn into, question. Before Satterlee became entitled'
to any part of the land in dispute under Wharton, he had
voluntarily entered into a contract with Matthewson, by"
which.he becameo his tenant, under a stipulation that either
of the parties might -put an end to the tenancy at the termination.of any one year.,.Under this new contiact, which,..
if it was ever valid, was still subsisting and.in full force at
the time when Satterlee acquired' the title of Wharton, he
exposed Himself to the opefation, of -a certain principle of
the common law, which estopped hiu6 from dontrovdrting.
the title of' his landlord, by setting up- a better title to the
land in himself, or one outstandind in some third person.
It is true that the supreme court of the state decided, in
the year 1825, that this contract, being entered into witl a
person claiming under a Connecticut title, was void; so that

412 -

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

the principle of law which has been mentioned did not
apply to it. But the legislature afterwards declared bythe
act under examination, thaV contracts of that nature" were
valid, and that the relation, of landlord, and tenant should
exist, and' be. held effectual, as well in contracts of that
desciiption, as in those between other citizens.of -the state.
Now,-thislaw -fiay be censured, as it has been, as an unwise land unjust exercise of -legislative,power; .as retrospective. in its operation,; as the.exercise, -by the legislature, -f
a judicial function; and-' as creating A contract between
parties where none previously existed. All this. may be admitted ; but the question -which we 'are now considering is,
does it impair, the. obligation.of tne cont.act between, the
state and Wharton, or .his- alienee . Both the decision of
the supreme court in 1825, and th, s acti operate, not upbn
that.contract, but upon' the- subsequent contract between
Satterlee and Matthewson.. No question. arose, or was decided, to disparage- the -title of Wharton, or of Satterlee as
his -vendee. So far from it, that the judgestated ii- his
charge to the jury, that if the transactions between* John
F. Satterlee and Elisha Satterlee were fairf then the.elder
title of the defendant must prevail, and he would be entitlld"
to a verdict.
W6 are then to inquire, whether the obligation of the
contract. between Satterle'e and Matthewson was impair~d
by this.-statute!. The objectionis urged at the-bar, and the
arguments in-support -of them, tpply to that contract, if to
either. It is that contract which the act declared to be.
valid, in opposition to the decisionof the supreme court;
and admitting the correctness of that decisi6n, it is not.easy
to. perceive how a. lav which gives'validity to a-void contract, can. be said- to. impair the obligation of that contract.
Should a statute declare, coatrary to the general principles
of law, that contracts rounded -upon an illegal or immoral
.consideration, whether 5n existence at the time of passing
the statute, or which mighlt hereafter:bp -entered into, should
nevertheless be valid and binding-upon the palrties; all would'
admit the retrospectiye character of su~bh an enactment, and
that the effect of it was:'tQ create -noatiact betweien parties,

-JANUARY TERM 1829.

.413,

[Sattbrlee vs.'Matthewson.]

.where none had previously existed. But it surely cannot be
contenided, that to cremite a contract, and to destroy or impair one, miean the same thing.
.IfThe effect of the statute in -question; be not to impair
the obligation of either of those contracts, and none othe
appear upon this. rdcord, is tuere-any other part of the constitution'of the United States, to which it-is repugnant! It
is said to be retrospective. Be it so; but retrospective laws
which-do not impair the obligation of contracts, or partake
of the character. of ex post facto laws, are not condemned
or forbidden by any part of that instrument,
All the other objectiong which .have been. made' to-this
statute, admit of-the same answer. There is nothing in- the
constitution o'f the United States, which forbids the legislature of a state to exercise judicial functions. The-case of
Ogden vs. Blackledge came into this Court from the "cii-cuit
court of the United States, and not from the supreme court
of North Carolina; and the question,-whether the act of 1799,
which partook ofa judicial character, was repugnant to the,
cohstitution'of the United States, did iot arise, and conse-.
'uently was not decided. It may safely be affirmed,.,that
no case has-ever been decidedin 'this Court', upon a writ'of'
error to a state 6ourt, which. affrds the slightest counte-nance to this objection.
•
The. objection however which was most pressed upon the*
couit, and relied upon by the counsel for the plaintiff in
error; was, -that 'the effect of this- act-was .to divest rights
which were vested by law in S.atterlee. ' There is certainly
no part of the constitution of the United States which ap..
plies to a state law of this description; nor re -we aware of
any decision of this, or of any circuit court, which" has con-demned such a law upon.this-ground; provided its effect be,
not-to impair thd obligation of a contraot, and it'has been
sshown, that the act in question has no -such'effect upon eithef
of the'contracts which*have been before mentionQd..
In the case of Fletcher vs. -Peck,' it was stated by:the
chief justice, that it' might well-be doulhted; whether the
naiture of society and-of government do- not'prescribe some
limits to the-legislative: power; and he asks, -' if any be pre-

414.

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Alattbewson.]

scribed, where are they to be found, if the property of an
individual, fairly and honestly acquired, may be seized withouit compensation" .Itis no where intimated in that.opinion,
that a state statute, which divests a vested right, is repugnant to the constitution of the U?iited States; and the case
in which that. opinion was pronounced, was removed into
this Court by writ of error, not from the supreme court of a
state, but from a circuit court.
The strong expressions of the Court upon this point, in the
cases of Vanhorne's lessee v& Dorance, and The Society
-for the Propagation of the Gospel vs. Wheeler, were founded
expressly on the constitution of the respective states in which
those cases were tried.
We do not mean in any respect to impugn: the correctness
of the sentiments expressed in those cases, or to question
the correctness of 'a circuit court, sitting to administer the
laws of. a state, in giving to the constitution -of that state a
paramount. authority over a legiglative act passed in violation of it.. We intend to decide no more than that the statute
objected to in this case is not repugnant to the constitution
,of the United States, and that unless it be so,-this Court has
no authority,, under the 25th section of the judiciary act, to
re-examine and to reverse the judgment of the supreme
court of Pennsylvania in the, present case.
That judgment therefore must be affirmed with costs.
Mr Justice JoHNsoN.-L assent to the decision entered in

this cause, bift feel it my duty to record my disapprobation
of the ground on which it is placed. Could I have brought
mysalf to entertain the same view of ihe decision 6f the
supreme court of Pennsylvania, with thatwhich my brethren
have expressed, I should have felt, it a solemn duty to reverse
the decision of that -court, as violating the constitution of
the United States in a most vital part,
What boots it that I Iam protected by that constitution
from having the obligation of my contracts violated,.if the
legislative'power can .create a contract- for me,..or render
bindihig upon me a contract which was null-and void in its
creation. To give efficacy to a void contract, is not, it

JANUARY TERM 1829.

415

[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

is true, violating a contract, but it is doing infinitely worse;
it is advancing to the very extreme of that class of arbitrary
and d6gpotic wcts, which bear upon individual rights and
liabilities, and against the whole .of which the constitution
most clearly intended: to interpose a protection commensu.rate with the evil.
And it is very clear to my mind, that the cause here did
not call for the decision now render-ed. There is another,
and.a safe and obvious ground upon which the decision of
the Pennsylvania court may be sustained.
The fallacy of the argument of the plaintiff in error consists in this, that. he-would give to the decision of a court,
on a point arising in the progress of his cause, the binding
effect of a statute or a judgment; that he would in fact restrict the same court from revising and overruling a.decision
which it has once rendered, and from entering a different
judgment, from that which would have been rendered in the
same court, had the first decision been adheried to. It is
imp9ssible in examining the cause, not to 1perceive that the
statute complained of was no more than declarative of thle
law on a point on which thi deciions of the state courts
'had fluctuated, and which never was fifially settled until the
decision took place on which this writ of error is sued out.
The decision on which he relies, to maintain the invalidity of the Connecticut lease, was rendered on a motion
for a new trial; alf the right it conferred was tq 'have that
new trial; and it even appears that lbefore that new trial took
place, the same court had decided a caus6, which in effect
overruled the decision on which he now rests; so that when
this act was passed, ne could not even lay claim to that im-perfect state of right, which uniform decisions are supposed
to confer. The latest decision in fact, which. ought to be
th6*precedent if any, was against his right.
It is perfectly clear, when we examine the reasohing of
the judges on rendering the judgmerft now under. review,
that they consider the law as unsettled; or rather, as settled
against the llaintiff here at the time the act was passed;
and if so, what right of his has been violated !. The act
does no more than what the couits of justice had done, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Satterlee vs. Matthewson.]

would'do withouf the aid of-the law; pronounce the decisionon which he relies'as' erroneous in prin'ciple, -and not binding in precedent.
The decision of 'the state court is supported under this
view of the subject,'without resorting to the portentous doctrine (for I must tall-it portentous), .that h-state may declare
a void deed to bd.'a validdeed, as affeoting individual litigants on a point of right, without violating the constitutioh
of the United States. If so, why not create a deed, efi destroy the operation of a limitation act after it has -vested a
title .
The.whole of this difficulty arises out of that unhappy idea,
that the phrase "ex - post facto," in the constitution 'of the
:Iiniied States, was donfined to criminal 'cases exclusively; a
dKlcision wfhich leaves a large class of arbirtrary legislative
acts without'.tht prohibiions'of the constitution. It was in
anticiphtion of the consequences, that I to6k occsion-ii the
investigations on the'bankru t question, to make a remarkon the meaning of that'phrase in the constitution.., My sib-.
sequent investigations •have confirmed me in the opinion'
th~n delivered, and the piesent case"'illustrats.its correctness ;I will, s.ubjoin ii note(a) to this opinion devoted to the
edxamination of that questioh.
Thiscause'canme on to be heard. on' the transcript of the
record from the svpreme cour tof the state- of :Pqnnsylvania
for the.middle: distriet of Pennsylvadiia, and was argued-by
counsel; on consideration wheregf, it i§ considered; drdered,
and adjudged by. this Court, that the judgment, of 4he said
supreme court for the state of Pe nnsylvania in, this catise be,
and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

(a) For this note seethe end of the volume.

