370

JOHN DNDRIH)G,

SUPREME COURT,

AP.PELLANT vs. MARTHA WASHMG'rO1'S EXECVToI S, -APPELUiES.

The testatrix directed that the interest of certain funls should be applied to
the proper iducation'? of c6rtain pesons her nbphews, " so that they may be
severally fitted'and accomplished in some useful tae ;" and gave to each of
them "who should live to finish his edication or reach the age of twenty-one
years of age, one hundred pounds-to set him up in his trade." She also gave
the whole of her estates'of -every description, to.be equally divided among
certain persons, who should be livir.g when the interest applicable. to the education of.her nephews should cease to be recruited, they being some of the
persons among whqxu the same was to be divided; and she directed'tbat" so
long as any one of the three nephews who should live, had not finished his
education, or arrived at the age Qf twenty-o'.4 y-ytis, the division of the propertylo, devised and given,'should be deferred, and no longer.
Abill was-filed, bytheappellant, oneofthenephews of the testatrix, charging-that
the executors had not paid the severil sums .f money bequeathed to him, and
praying that they may be decreed to pay the "same. ' No other persons were
madeparties to the proceeding but the executors; "and after a zevort of the
master, the cause came on to a hearing, and the circuit court dismissed the bill
for want of proper parties. The defendants at the argument insisted that not
only the two nephews, whose education was provided for by the - testatrix,
should have been made parties, but also all th residuary legatees.
So far as the hill sought to obtain such a portion of the fund as was by a fair construction of the will applicable to the-education of the nephews of the testatrix,
they alone were required to-be parties, and the court reversed.the decree of tAe
circuit court which dismissed the bill, for the purpose of enabling the complainant to make the other two nephews of the, testatrix .parties.
The Court did not consider it necessaiy to make the residuary legatees 'partiei,
in . -proceeding the sole object of which was to ascertain and distribute among
the nephews of the testitrix, the amount to which they were entitled for the
expenses of education. The residuary legatees have undoubtedly an interest
in reducing everydemand'on the estate. Whatever remains, sinks into the residuum; and that residuum is -diminished as well by the 6laims of creditors andspecific -legatees, as by this. In all such cases the-executors represent the-rbsidu~ry legatees, and guard their interests. It isa parn of that duty which re-.
quires themto protect the interests of the estate. In such suits, the residuary
legatees are never made parties. To require it would be an intolerable burden
on those who have claims on an estate in the hands of executors. [377]
The Court do not thinlk that in ascertaining the amount applicable to the education of the appellant, one-ofthe learned professions niay be taken as the standard, 'with as much propriety as the trade or art of a mechanic. The distinction between a profession and a trade is well understood; and they are seldom,
if ever, confounded with qaeh other in ordinary languagq. If the testatrix had
contemplated what in the common intercourse of society is denominated a
profession; she would scarcely have used a term, which is generally received
as denoting a mechanical art.
But the bequest is not confined to the expense of acquiring the trade, so as. to

JANUARY-TERM 1829.
-[Dandadge ts. Washington's Executors.]
he enabled to exercise it in the common.way. The testatrix intenddd such an
education as would fit her relations to hold a distinguished place in that line
oflife i which she designed them to move. 'the sum allowed for the object
ought to be liberal, such as would acdomplish it, if the fund from whiplh it
*was to be drawn wduld permit it. E377]

*APPEAL from the circuit court of the,'county of Alexandria,. In the district of Columbia.
In the circuit court, the appellant, filed his .bill. agaifist
George W. Curtis and'Thomas Peter, as executors of MrsMgrtha Washington, elat
of Mouft Vernon; claiming the pay
ment of a. sum of money'dtxe to him,. under the bequests
in the will of the-testatix, for, the expenses of his educalion ; and also-for -a distributive share of the residuary estate
of .the dedeased, in the hands.of 'the executors,, acting as
trustees unu&rthe 'iiil.'- The facts of the case are stated at
large in the' qpinion oif the court.
The circuit court dismissed the bill for want *of,parties;
apdthe'ease was argued in Ihis Court Por the appellant by
Mr Swarin and MrLear; and by.Mr Taylor for the appehees.
For .the -.6ppe1llat, 'ifwas -contended; 'that. the circuit
court-erred im dismissing the bill, and that this Cort
should-correct 'the -decree, and direct 1he payment of,'so
much of the'fund in the haiids of the executors and trustee
-as by the terms of the will was .to 'be appropriated to the
educatior -6fthe appellant.
The counsel, fir the;'appeliant admitted," that the general
rule in chancery, is, that all •who are interested in .the 'decree shall be made parties to the proceedings; b.ut"the rule
is n6t. witheut exceptions; and ,itdoes. not prevail where
parties ,cal'not be found, .and where great inconvenience
would result from its application. Cited 2-Alasns Rep.-189.
.-Neither creditors or legatees are required'to be parties,
unless. where one or more residuary. legatees, sue.
Butif all the parties interested under the will should have
been absolutely, or 6onstrucrivelybefore *the "dourt,' Still'it
was 'error in the circuit ,.Qurt to dismiss the 'bill. The
propee'conrpe was for the defendants below to'erter a de-:
murrer. practical'Registir, 261 ; 16 Ves. 321. 2b; 4

• SUPREME COURT;
[Dandridge vs. Washington's Ekecutors.]

.Tkuhford, 485. If the court could have dismissed the bill,
because all the residuary legatees weze not parities, yetin
this case the complainant below-sought to obtain d specific
legacy, that'sum to which he was entitled for hih education;
and as to this part of-the bill the-dismissal was error. 2 Chancery. Cases,-124; 3 Johns. Chan. R ep. 555 ; Finch.-243,
A iound construction of the will does not confine the
education of those who were the objects of the bequest to
preparation for a " trade." The appellant had obtained -an
education for the law, which he afterwards studied, and by
no interpretation could it be claimedto restrict-the 6ipenses
of his instruction to the ac'quisition of such knowledge as
was necessary for a mechanic art. The words of the wi)l
are to receive a liberal construcfion, and to be so applied as
will. ftlyexecute the generous purposes of the testatfix.
"TrAde" is "business," and not a-" manual," or "'imechanic" employment.- to the profitable use of every business
knowledge is necessary; an( in the United Stites men are
ealled to the highest 'statibns from everyoccupation. To
limit the education of the appellant only to a preparation
for a mechanical employnient, was contrary tn those .principles which should have been applied, taking into consithe situation and relations of the testatrix, and of
the appellant.
- "Upon general principles, the appellant is entitled to the
proportion of'the fund claimed by him. Although it was
riot expended in his education, it is nevertheless his. Cited,
5 Pes. 461. 1 Swanston, 35..
This Court has all the facts before them, upon which a
decree may be made, and it may determine what sum out of
the fund apprbpriated-for the education of the nephew of
the testatrix. As it would not have'been necessary to bring
all the parties before the court, if a claim had been preferred
while the education of the appellani was going on, it is not."
essential that this should now be done. What is a- reasonable and proper sum to be paid to the appellant, depends
on rno other circumstances but. those with which he is exclusively connected.

-deration

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Dandridge vs. Washington's Executors.]

Mr Taylor, for the appellees, stated that the executors of

the testatrix hagd instructed him to offer to restore the bill to
the circuit court, if the appellant would there make all the

legatees, the residuary legatees included, parties.

The ex-

ecutors are trustees bound to protect-the fund for all who
are interested in it. If this Court shall decide that they can
make a final decree, and shall do so, it will be entirely satis-

factory to the appellees.- The residuary legatees are interested in the whole of the funds in tile hands of the executors. If the expenses of the education of the app ellant, and

of Bartholomew and Samuel Henley are limited according
to the construction of the will assumed by the executors,
that fund, for all, is inkreased.
. The rule is settled, that when an interest can be shown to
be in a paity not before the court, he must be brought in;
unless special, circumstances authorise an exception to this
rule. J Fes. Tun. 311.. 8 Wheaton, 451. 2.Adtk. 510.
Were not the Henleys interested in this Proceeding .!
This is no.t a specific legacy. The fund is to be i'aised -but
of the residuary estate, and.thus all interested in the residuum ought to be parties. ..No legacy is specific, unless. it
is clearly so, and the amount of it, not dependant on an accoint. 4 Yes. 573. 2 Alad. 8, 9.
* By a fair construction of the will, the residuary- legatees
were inferested in-the sum to be appropriated to th6'education of the appella.nt, and B. ,ind S. Henley -who were to be
educated for a trade, not a prolession; as, if those expenses
-Were less than the dividends-on the stock, the residuary fund
would. be increased. It was theiefore proper, that.all those
thus interested should be before the circuit court.
Want of parties may be objected to at the hearing. ,This
point came'before the court of appeals of.Virginia, and wag
so.decided in the case of Clark vs. Long, 4 Randall's Rep.
451,
The court may dismiss the proceedings for, want of-parties, or order parties to be made, I :P. Williams, 4!8.
Mr Chief Justice

Court.

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion -of the

SUPREM& COURT'.
[Dandridge vk. Wash ngton's Exeeutors.]

This*suit was brought by the plakintiff, against the defendants, the acting exe'cutos of Mrs Martha Washington, late
'o~f Mourt Vernon, to obtain payment of legacies bequeathed
to him in her last will.
Tke testatrix, after s.everal devises and bequests, devised
as follows: "!Item, it is my will and-desire, that all the res'
and residue of my estate, of whatever kind and description,
not- hereitx specifically devised, or" bqubathed, shall be. old
by the exe6utors of tris my last will, for ready money-,as
soon'after my decease- as the sanle can be done, and that the'
proceeds thereof,. together with all the money in the house,
and thb' debts due to me, (the detlts due from me and tbm
legacies bequeathed'bing first satisfied)" shall be investedby my executors 'in eight per cent; stock of the funds of the
United Sfates,, aid. shall sthdii on-the books in' the. name of
•my'executors, in their character of diecutors of my will; and
it.is'my 46siid ihat te int~iest .thereof shall -be applied to.
the piroper ediucati6ri of Bartholomew Henley, 4nd. Sarmuej
Henley, the -two yungest sons of my sisthr Henley, and also
to-lb'" e'ducation of Johni Dandridge, sbn of my .deceased.
n~ap ewJoh D andridge;.sb that they may be severally fitted
and adomplished in, some useful trade; and-t9 each:of them
"whoshall have liyed to finish bis education, or:'o readh the
.age of: tvenfy-one years, I. give arid bequeath one hundred
pbi'ds, to set hirii up in his trade "Item, my..debts and legacies being paid; and the educatidn 6t Bartholomew Henley, Samuel Hetiley, and.John
Dandridge - afdresaid beirg completed-, or-they being -all.
dead before the comrpleiion thereof, ii is my will. and desire,
form-existing,
that all my. estates and-intetsis, ii w
whether in money' funded stock, or ny otherspecies oftrperty, shall be equally divided a mong all the perions hereinafter mentionedi who 'shall-be 'living at the time thatthe interest- of the funded stpck shall cease to be applicable, in
pursuanc 6 of my Will 'eiein before expressed, to the edueation of 'my nephews, Barthblomew Henley, Samuel Henley,
and John Dandridge; namnly, among Anna Maria Washington, daughter'of.my' lie'e, and John Dandridge, son of my
nephew, and all -my great grandchildren living' at the time
-tve'.

_JANUVARY TFAW 1$,6

475'
376

.[Daudridg.m. Wasbizjgton's Execufors,

that the, interest .of the~said funded stoek shall .cease to be
applicable to the bduca'tion of: the said ,.-Henleys.S;. Henley, and John Dandridge; and the sarre shall-cezise tobe so
applied when.all. of them .shall die"before they arrive to the
age of twenty-one years, or those living. .hall have 'finished
their education, a arrived at the. age of twenty-one years;
and so long.as any one qf the three lives, who has not finished
,his. education or arrived to. the.age of twenty-one "years1 'he
division of the saidzesidgum is to be deferred, and no longjer2'
The bill charges that.the executors have-not paid the:se.
veral- sums of money bequeathed to him, by*their testatrix 4
and prays, that they may he .decreed to pay the. samire with
interest.
The process was executed on one of the executors only.
He failed to answer' and the Vill as, to him was tken for
confessed," and the court ordered*themaster commiL.sioner
to ascertain tfie period when the; complainant att.ined his
age of twenty-one years, and what Would have been.a. comPltAtsin, for his edbaationi.uccotdiag to :the true inteAt
and meaning of the last will of'Martha Washington, and
make keporV't6o.he Court. "Ata s'ibspquent. term the defendants were ordered to .settle theit accounts before the coinmissioner. The defendant,: Thomas Peter, afterwards appeared, and filed his answer, i4-wlii~h he admits the last will,
of Martha Washington deceased, and that his oo-defendant
and himself.alone have. qualified as-executors, thereof. He
says that they have paid the. legacy of one.hundred. ppinds,
and, advanced a, considerable sum of money to the guardian
of B. Henley, S. Henley, gnd .the :com plhiaant, to lfit -them'
for.some usefQl trade. He also. alleges ,that the 'executors
have beenprevented fro, 'dividing -the,residuum,. by the un-"
reasonableness of the demand made .by the'.complainant.
The master's repqrt shows that the complainant attaihed
his. age of twenty:-one years on the 21st'day of November
1817; ihat-the defbndants were on that day indebted to thpe
estate foxprinieipal, the- sum of $7282.30, and for interest.
accruing thereon and remaining in their hands, the sum of
.,845.1 L Tht they had paid the-legacy of LOO pounds, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Daudrdge.v8? .Washingtan'iExecutors.]

hadadvanced to, the ,guardian of the complainant for his
education the sum of $166.67.
The cause ciame on to be heard in April 1827, when the
bill wat .dismissed foi, wait of' proper parties,
At the argument; ,the counsel for the defendants have insisted that-not only Bartholomew and- Samuel Henley, but
all 'the, residuary legatees should have been made parties.
This Coumt is 'learly of opinion that the two Henleys
wha participated 'with the comiplainant in .the fund applicable to their education, ought to have been parties to. a
suit-which asks the distribution of that fund. This would
be admitted if the 'whole was distributable among them.
But the Court thinks' it also proper, though a different con,
•struction should be put on the will. The fund is not so large
that .the claims, of each, while all were uider age, might be.
satisfied without taking into view the claims of the other
two'. In determining ho* much ought to hay' been.applied
to the education of tl[e complainant, the Court 'would. find
it necessary to take/into con'sideration the amount of the
furid and the reltive situation of all ihe persons entitled to
it. They ought to have been parties to a suit in which their
interests were involved.
The question wh ether the whole interest accruing on the
-residuum dught to be divided among the.legatees to whose
education ji was applicable,,or only so much tbiereqfas'was
necessary for the purpose for which it was given, has been.
earnestly discussed at the.bar. In considering this, question,
as in all others dependifig on willsi the intention of the tes-,
tatrix is to be collected from the will, and, from, the circum'stances under which it was made. In thjs case th.e testatrix
does. not appear to have intended a pecuniary donation to
.the, parties in the particular bequest under cofisideration.
•Her intention ii that respect was effected. by the gifts .of
100 pounds to eapb, to set him-up in his trade. This bequest
seems to have been made not with a view of adding. to their
private fortunes, but wit h;a view. to their education'and preparation for that particular business which, they were afterwards, to pursue.- They are- not therefore entitled to the

JANUAR'Y TERM 1829.
[Dandridge vs. Wasbingtonls Executors.]

whole iund, whatever may be its amQunt, but to so much of
it as is required for the object it is to accomplish.
In ascertaining the amount which is so applicable, the
plaintiffs contend that one of the learned professions.may
be taken as the standard, with as much propriety as the trade
or art of a mechanic. The Court does not think so. The
distinction between 0. profession and a trade is.well understood; and they are-seldom, if ever, confounded with each
other in .ordinary language. If the testatrix had contemplated what in the common intercourse of society is denominated a profession, she would scarcely have used a term
which is generally received ag denoting one of the mechanical arts.
But we do not think the bequest is confined to'the e-pense of acquiring the trade,. so as to be enabled to exercise
it in the common way. Such does not appear to have been
the intent of the testatrix. Her bounty is extended to the
proper education of three relatives, so that tbey'may be severally fitted and accomplished in'some useful trade. Their
education is-a primary object, as well as their acquisition of
of the trade; and when we consider the situation and character of the parties and the language of the will, we-cannot
doubt that the testatrix intended such an education as would
fit.her relatives to hold a distinguished place in that line of
life in which she designed them to move. The sum allowed
for the object ought to be liberal, such as would accomplish
it, if the fund from which it was to be-drawn would admit
of it.
In h suit for the distributionof this fund ve do not think
the.. residuary'legatees necessary parties. They have undoubtedly an interest in reducing the sum to be allowed out
of it to the complainant, but they have the same interest in
reducing every demand on the estate. Whatever remains
sinks into the residuum, and that residuum is diminished as
well by the claims of creditors and specific legates*as by
this. In all such'cases'the executors represent the residuary
legatees, and guard their interests. It is a part of that duty
which requires them to protect the interest. of the estate.
VOL. IL-2 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Dandridge vs. Washington's Executors.]

In such suits'the residuary legatees are never made parties.
To require it would be an intolerable burtien on tho.- who
have claims on an estate in the hands of executors.
WO do not think-'that the bill ought to have been, dismiigsed -for want of proper .parties, .unless the domplainant
refused to make such as were really necessary'; and then it
might have been .dismissed without prejudice.
The circuit iourt can make no decree for the distribution
of -the residuum, unless all. those entitled to distribution. are
brought before the court;. but it may grant all other relief
to which -te.complainan't .may be entitled, on making Bartholomew and Samuel Henley parties.
This Court is-of. opinion, that the decre of-the cireuit
court, dismissing .the compi'ainant's bill, ought to be reversed, and t'64.cause remanded to the said circuit court,
"withleave to the plaintiff to make new- parties; after which
the.cause ought to be referred to the master, with instructions to compute, the several sums which ought to be i 1lQwed
out of the fund 'applicali1e to the education of Bartholomew
Henley, Samuel Henley and John Dandridge, in c6 formity
.with the will bf Mrs Martha Washington deceased,; on
which sqms interest waght to be. allowed; and' also to compute'the sum..to which the plaintiff may be entitled, as one
of the residuary legatees -of the said Martha Washington
'deceased; "prc *ded the other residuary'legatees be brought
before the ",ourt as jprties; on failure'. to do which, the
plaintiff'S bili, is to be dismissed, so far as' it claims a part
of the 'residuary estate,..without prejudice.

This cause, came 6n, to be .h'eaid on the transcript of the
record, from .the circuit court of the United States for the
'district'of Colubnbia,. ,holden' in' arr for the county of.Alexandria, and was argued "by. counsel; on consideration
whereof, this Court is 6f opinioan, that the circuit court erred
in disriiissing the plaintiff's bill. for WAnt.of proper parties,
and that the said decree ought to be reversed. Whereupon
A is ordered, and decreed by this Court, that the decre6 of.the

JANUARY TFRM 1829.

379

[Dandridge vi. Washington's Executors.]

said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
reversed; and this Court doth further 'iorder that the said
cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the saJd circuit court, with directions to *give leave to the plaintiff to
make.new parties, that the proper accouxnts may be taken
in order- to a fifial decree; in which decree, the plaintiff.
ought to be allowed interest on the sum-due to him for -his
edieation out of the money applicable tO that object.

