ISQ

SUPREME COURT.

ROBET BOYCE, PrL Mxar n iNROR V*. PAUL AxDEu~oN, DxyzxDANT IN

ERROR.

The law regulating the responsibility of common carriers, does not apply to the
case of carrying intelligent beings, iuch as negroes. Thb cariler ha§ not, and
cannot have over them'the same absolute control that he hns over innimate
matter. In the nature of things,,and in their character, they resemble passengers, and not packages of goods. It:would seem reasonable therefore, that thi
responsibility of the carrier should be measured by the law which is applicable
to passengers, rather than by that which is applicable to the carriage of common goods. [155]
The law applicable to common carriers is one of great rigour. Though to the
extent to which it has been carried, and in the cases to which it has been ap-.
plied, its necessity and its policy are-admitted ; yet it ought not to be carried
further or applied to neiwcases. It hasnot beer applied to 'livingmen, and
it ought not to be. [1551
The ancient rule of the law of carriers; that the carrier is liable only for.ordinary
neglect, does not aoelv to the conveyance ofslaves. [156]

WRIT of error to the circuit court of Kentucky.
The case was submitted to the Court, on the part of the
counsel for .the plaintiff ii. error, Mr.Rowan, upon the following brief.
This was an action in the court below against -defendants
in error, owners of the steam boatWashington, to recover from
them the value of four slaves, the property of the plaintiff;
who, he alleged, were delivered to the commandants of said
boat, to be carried thereon, and who, he alleged, were drown'ed
by the carelessness, negligence, neglect or mismanagement
of the captain and commandants of the said steam boat.
The declaration contained two counts, which are inf the
ordinary form.
Plea not guilty, and joinder in the usual form.
Upon the trial of the cause, the following bill of exceptions was signed by the judges, viz. "Be it remembered,
that at the trial of this cause, the plaintiff gave evidence,
conducing to prove that the defendanis were owners of the
steam boat Washington. That the said boat Washington
by them was used, and employed, on the Mississippi and
Ohio rivers, as a common carrier of property and passengers,
for freight and reward. That the steam boat Teche, in do-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Boyce vs. Anderson.]

scending the Mississippi, with the plaintiff's agent, and the
negroes mentioned in the declaration, arid others on board,
was blown up, and set on fire, and the passengers escaped
from the burning Teche to the shore, about six miles below
Natches. That the steam boat Washington, was ascending
the Mississippi, and passed the burning Teche, and when
she came opposite to them, the plaintiff's agent, the negroes,
and others who had -escaped from the Teche, were on shore;
the agent of the plaintiff,.with the negroes belonging to the
plaintiff, was received into the yawl belonging to the de-'
fendants, a tender to the steamn boat, for the purpose of conveying the negroes from the shore on the Mississippi to the
steam boat, to be put on board the steam .boat, and that the
yawl wqs upset, the negroes in the declaration mentioned,
were drowned; and evidence conducing to show that the
yawl was upset by ill and imprudent management, in putting
the steam boat in motion as the yawl approached, and before
the passengers were on board the steam boat.
The defendants on their part gave evidence conauoingto
show that these negroes and other'persons, to the n-.nber
of 'sixteen, had been passengers on board the steim boat
Teche, which had taken fire, and the passengers had been
put on shore about six miles below Natchesi from said Teche,
in her distress. That these passengers, including the negroes, were taken into the yawl of the steam boat Washington, from their distress, so as aforesaid, from motives of
humanity- and without any view to reward, at the request of
captain Campbell, commanding the Teche, or of the.agent
of the plaintiff. That there was no -agreement for hire, reward; or 'freight: none was charged or received. That it
was the custom of steam bqats in the river not to 6aim passage money or reward in such cases, from persons who weie
in distress, and unable to pay. And to repel the evidence
of plaintiff, as to negligence, it appeared that there was no
contract in this case, between the agent of the plaintiff. and
the owners orofficer of the steam boat, about reward; but
the yawl was sent to shore and the passengers taken in,,
without 'any contract, or conversation about the carriage, or
about any reward.

SUPREME COURT.
[Byce vs. Anderson.]

The steam boat Techewhen she took fire was descending.
The steam boat Was.hington was ascending.
Upon this evidence the .plaintiff moved the. court to instruct thejury,
1. That if they find, from the evidence, that the defendants were owners of the steam boat, and by themselves,
their officer, or servants of the boat, did actually receive into
their yawl, the negroes of the plaintiff, to be carried from
shore on board the steam boat, they are responsible for neglect and imprudent 'management, notwithstanding no reward, or hire, or freight, or wages, were to have been paid
by Boyce to defendants.
2. That if they find from the evidence, that the steam
boat Washington was owned by defendants, and used by
them, on the river, as a common carrier, for wages and
freight, and that tie slaves of plaintiff were actually received by the agents and servants 'of the defendants, on board
of the yawl, of and belonging to the defendants as a tender
of the steam boat, to be carried from the land, and put on
blrrd the steam boat, to be therein carriedand transported,
that the. defendants were bound to the most skilful nd
careful management; and if the slaves were drowned in
consequence of any omission of such skilful and careful
managementby the agents and servants in the conduct and
navigation 6f the boat and tender, the defendants are answerable to the plaintiffs for the value of the slaves.
3. That if the jury believe the evidence'in this case, the
defendants ivould have had a legal right to demand a r eas6nable compensation for their undertaking to transport said
slaves on board their boat; and their afterwards waiving, or
declining that right, from motives of humanity, or any other
motive does not change or diminish their legal responsibility as:common carriers for hire or reward.
The defendants moved the court, "t o instruct the jury
that, if they find from the' evidence that the slaves in controversy were taken on board of the yawl at the instance,
dnd in pursuance of the request of the captain of the Teche,
frbm motives of humanity and courtesy "alone, that the defenciants are not liable, unless they shall be of opinion, that

JANUARY TERM 1829
[Boyde -vs. Anderson.]

the slaves were lost through the gross neglect-.of the captain
of the steam boat, or the other servants or agents of th&
defendants."

-

The court gave the'first* instruction moved by te plain-.
tiff, with tHis. qualification, "that gross negligence, or un.
skilful conduct was required .to charge the defendants.'
The second and third instruction moved by the plaintiff, the
court refused to give, and instructed -the jury, "that the
dloctiine of common carriers did not, appiy to the case of
carrying intelligent beings, such as negroes; but that the
defendants were chargeable for negligence,or unskilful conduct." The court gave the instructions asked for by the.
defendants.
It is believed and alleged, that the court erred in refusing
to give the instructions required by plaintiff, and in giving
those required by defendants; and especially,,ift instructing
tho jury that the doctrine of common carriers did not apply..
to -the case.
The counsel for the defendants in error, Mr Bates, stated,
that the question in. the cause was, whether the law of 'carriers applies to the transportation :or conveyance -ofslaves.
' He contended, that in all its principles the Jaw did not
and could not extend. The care which might be. exercised
over inanimate property, Which could be disposed of for its
security at the will of the carrier, was not to be exercised on
human beings, with the powers and rights of locomotion, and
of self-priaservation Jby different means from those which
were enjoined.on the carriers of merchandize. The responsibility of the 'carrier of slaves must therefore be limited.
. Under the Roman 1 w the condition of vlaves was essentially different from that of slaves here. In Rome the power
'of life and death was vested id the master. Here slaves
have rights secured to them; they are protected by law to a
certain extent from personal violence, their lives are under the
guardianship of the law; and they have even some political
power, as they are enumerated in the represented population
-of the United States. Slaves are here in a mixed character.
The general doctrine of the law of carriers will not thereVOL. II.-U

SUPREME COURT
[Boyce vs. Anderson.]

fore apply to them-; but those principles which by that law
impose -obligations on the carrier not to suffer or commit
gross negligence do apply. The facts in this case-do not
establish gross negligence, and as the carriers of the boat
were not bound for "the most skilful care," but only for
"usual care," the plaintiff in error has no case.
The proposition in the second instruction is, that the
owners of the steam boat Washington might have received
a compensation for .carrying the slaves from the shore to the
-boat. It is contended that there was.no contra ct, and lordMansfield has said, that no compensation is due for a.voluntary courtesy. Upon the Mississippi no compensation is ever
given for carriage from the shore to the boat; and in this-case,
the obligations of humanity alone prompted those acts, from"
which the plaintiffs demand of.this court, that the owners of
the Washington shall be made liable for the slaves lost by
the" performance of gratuitous kindness. Such a decision
would be against policv as well as against justice.

-

Mr Chief Justice, MARSHALL delivered, the opinion of the
Court.
This was an action brought in -the court of the United
States, for the, seventh circuit and district of Kbntucky,
against the defendants, owners, &c.
There being no special contract between the parties in
this case, the principal question arises on the opinion expressed by the court, "that the doctrine of common carriers
'does not apply to the case of carrying intelligent beings,
such as negroes."
That doctrine is, that the carrier is responsible for every
loss which is not produced by inevitable accident. It has
been pressed beyond the general principles'which govern
the law of bailment, by considerations of policy. Can a
:sound distinction be*faken between a human being in whose
person another has an interest, and inanimate property!
A ilave has volition, and has feelings which cannot be
entirely disregarded. These properties cannot be overlooked in .conveying, him from place to place. He cannot be
stowed away as a common package. Not oniy does hu-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

155

[Boyce vs. Anderson.]

inanity forbid this %proceeding, but it mightendcjnger 'his.
life or health.. 'Consequently this rigorous mode of proceeding annot safely be adopted, unless stipulated for by special contract. Being-left at liberty, he may escape. The
carrier has not, and cannot have, .the same absolute control
over him, that he has over inanimate matter. In the nature
of things, and in his chardcter, he resembles, a passehger,'
not a package of. goods. It'would seem reasonable, therefore, that the responsibility of the carrier should be measured by the law which is applicable to phssengers, rather
than by that which is applicable to the carriage of commoi
goods.
There are no slaves in England, but there are persons in
whose service another, has a temporary interest. We 'believe-that the responsibility of a carrier, for injury which
such persoh may sustain, has never been. placed on th6,same
principle with his responsibility for a bale of goods. He is
undoubtedly answerable for anly injury sustained in consequence of his negligence or want of skill; but we have
never understood that he is responsible farther.
The law applicable to common 'carriers is one of great
rigour. Though to the extent'to which it has been carried,
and in the cases to which it has been applied, we admit its
necessity and its policy, we do not think it ought to be carried farther, or applied to new cases. We think it has not
been applied to living men, and that it ought not to be applied to them.
The directions given by-the court to the jury informed
themi that the defendants were responsible for negligence
or 6nskilful conduct, but not otherwise.
Sir William Jones, in his Treatise on Bailments, p. 14, says,
" When the contract is reciprocally beneficial to both parties, the obligation hang's in an even balance; and there
can be no reason to recede from the standard: nothing more,
therefore, ought in that case to be required than ordinary diligence, and the bailee should be responsible for no more than
ordinary negldt2' In another ptace (p. 144) the same author
says, " A carrier for hire ought, by the rule, to be Tesponsible only for ordinary neglect; and in the time of 'Heim

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce vs. Anderson.]

.VIII., it appears to have been generally holden, that a common carrier was chargeable in case of a loss by robbery,
only when he had travelled by ways dangerous for robbing,
or driven by night, or at'any inconvenient hour."
This rule, as relates to the. conveyance of goods,, was
changed as commerce advanced, from motives of policy.
But if the court is right in supposing, that the strict rule
introduced for general commercial objects, does not apply
to the conveyance of slaves, the ancient rule "that the carrier is liable only for ordinary neglect," still applies to them.
If the slaves were taken on board the yawl to be conveyed
in the steam boat, solely in consequence of their distress,
*and liom motives of humanity alone, no reward, *hire or
freignt being to be paid for their passage, as the first prayer
of the plaintiff and'the.prayer of the defendant suppose, the
carrier would certainly be responsible only in a case pf gross
neglect; and the qualification annexed to this construclion
was correct.
We think that in the case stated for the instruction of the
circuit court, the defendants were responsible for the injury
sustained, only in the event of its being -caused by the negligence, ori the unskilfulness ' of the defendants or their
agents, and that there is no error in the opinion given.
This cause came on to be heard on a transcript of the record from the 'circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky,, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,* it is considered, ordered and adjudged by
this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in
thig.cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

