-JANUARY TERM.182:9.

THE. CoLuxupx

ImsrumNE Com~pAwy or AL-ExANDRI,
v8. JOSEPH W. ,LAwRnmxz SuRvIVOR. oF
& Pon .ExTER, DEFENDANTS.WM
I M6RO.

rIN

ERROR

2

?LAINTIFs
LAWRENCE

It is undoubtedly true, that questions respecting the admissibility of evidence,
are entirely distinct from those which refex-to its sufficiency or efect. They
arise in different.stages of the tlal; and'cannot, with-strictpropriety, iepropounded at the same time. [44]
L. & P. at the time an insurance was made for them against loss by fire, were
entitled to one-third of the property by deed, and to two-thirds as mortgagees;
but one mpiety of the whole was held underan agrement which had not been
complied with, and which purported on is face to be void if not complied
with; but the other contracting.party had not, declared it void, nor called for a
compliance with it. L. & P. had an insurabld interest in the property. [46]
That.an equitable interest may be insured is admitted; and we can perceive no
reason which excludes an intei'st.hld under an executory contract. While
-the contract subsists, the person claiming under it has, undoubtedly, a substantial interest in the property. If it be destroyed, the loss, in contemplation of
law, is his. If the purchase money be paid, it is his in fact. If he owes the
purchase money the property is equivalent, and is still valuable to him. The
embarrassments of his affairs may be such"that his debts may absorb all
his
property; but this circumstance has never been considered as proving a want of
interestin it. The destruction of the property is a real loss to the person in
possession, who claims-title under an executory contract; and the contingency,
thathis.title may be defeated by subsequent events, does not prevent this

loss. E46]
The soatcrial inquiry is, does the offer
fdrlinsurance state truly the inthrestof the
assured in the property to be insured? The offer describes, the property as
belonging to Lawrence & Poindexter, and states it afterwards to be their
stone mill. It contains no qulifying terms, which should lead the mind to suspect that their title was not complete and absolitc.. The title of.the assured
was subject to contingencies, and was held&under contracts which had become void by the non-performance of the same. This Court is of opinion, that
"aprecarious title, depending for its continuance on events which
might or
might not happen, is not such a title as is described in this offei for insurance;
* construing the words of that offer as they are fairly to be understood. [48]
The contract for insurance against fire, is one in which the underwriter generally
acts on the representation of the assured; and that rdprsentation ought consequently to be fair, and to omit nothing which it is ma-irial to the underwriter
to know. It may not be necessary that the person requiring insurance should
state every incumbrance on his property, which it might be required of him to
state if it was offered for sale; but fair dealing requires that he should state

VOL. IL-D

SUPREME COURT
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]
every thing which might influence the mind of the underwriter, in forming or
declining the contract. [49]
Generally speaking, insurances against fire are made in the confidence that the
assured will use all the precautionary means to avoid the calamity insured
against, which would be suggested by his interest. The extent of that interest must always influence the underwriter in taking or rejecting the risk; and
in estimating the premium. Underwriters do not rely so much on the principles, as on the interest of the assured ; and it would scem therefore to be material, that they should always know how far this interest is engaged in guarding the property ftor loss. £49]
In all treatises on insurances, and in all the cases in which the question has arisen,
the principle is, that a misrepresentation which is mateilal to the risk, avoids
the policy. [49]
What will not constitute a waiverof the preliminary proof of loss the assured is
bound by the policy io produce. [53]
Construction of a policy of insurance against loss by fire. [56]

THIS was a writ of error to the circuit court of the county of Alexandria i'n the district of Columbia.
The action was brought, originally, by Lawrence &
Poindexter, on a policy of insurance for $7000 against fire
on a mill.
The declaration, after setting out the contract of insurance, avers that the plaintiffs "were interested in and the"
equitable owners of the insured premises at the time the instrance was made." After stating* the loss by fire on
the 14th February 1824, as within the" policy, there is the
following averment: " of which said loss, together with the
proofs thereof in conformity with the conditiois subjoined
to the said policy, the defendants, on the 20th February
1824, at,'&c. had due and regularnotice."
Upon the trial of the general issue, vdrdict aid judgment
passed for the surviving plaintiff, Lawrence, for the whole
amount of tfhe insurance, under certain instructions from the
court, stated in two bills of exceptions tendered by the defendants, now plaintiffs in error.
During-the progress of the suit, Poindexter, one of the

plainfiff died, and ihe suit instituted in their joint names,
was carried on in thename of the survivor, for the use of his
assignee.
The'evidence exiiibiied to the. jury on the part of the
plaintiff, sho*wed that Lwrence &. Poindexter, by their

JANUARY TERM 1829.

27

[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

.agents, had made application in writing to the defendants
for insu'rance, in these words:
"What prdmium will, you ask-to insure the following property, belonging to Lawrence 4 Poindexter, for one year,
against loss or damage by fire, on their stone mill,. four stories high, covered with wood, situated on an island about
one mile from Fredericksburg, in the county of Stafford'i
The mill called Elba'; sdven thousand dollars is wanted; not
-within thirty yards of any other building, except a cornhouse, Which is-about -twenty yards off."
The premium demanded, was oie hundred and five dollars.
The -application was made upon a printed form, of which
blanks are kept at the insurance office, and filledyup as iequired.. At he foot of this dodument was the following:
-N. B. Persons .offering for insurance are xequested to be
particularin their descriptions, more' especially of what
materials the walls and roofs are constructed, &c.
The policy, an urisea--redinstrument, .ias executed in.the
Usual form, containing. the several stipulations, provisos, and
exceptions, usual i nfire policies; and among others, the. following:
.
"-.nd it is understood and agreed, as well by this' com-"
pany as by 'the assured named in this policy, and all, others
who may becomeinterested therein, that this insurance -is
made'and accepted in reference to the coaclitions which accompany these .pr'esenti- and in every case the said conditions are to be used to explain the.rights and obligations-of.
the Parties, except so fat forth as the pol'-y itself expressly
declares those rights and. obligations."
Upon the back of this policy were ' printed the "Fundamental rules.*ofthe ColIumbian Insurance Company," and
also, the "Rdtes of annualPremiums to be paidfor insurance,' ainong which were:"1. Persons desirous toniake insurance on. building., are.
to state in writing the following particulars,'viz.'Of what
materials the walls and roofs of each building are constructed, as well as-the construction df the buildings contiguous.
thereto--whether.the same are occupied as private dwellings

SUPREME COURT.
.[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

or how otherviise-whefe situated-also the name-or names
of the present "occupiers.
"Each building tnust be separately valued, and a specified
sum insured thereon; and in like manner a-separate sum
insured on the j roperty contained therein.
"All manufactories which "contain furnaces, kilns, stoves,
ovens, or use fire heat, are chargeable at additional rates.
".
cIn the assurance of goods, wares and merchandise, the
building or place, in which the same are deposited, is to be
described, also whether such goods are of the kinds denominated hazardous, and whether any manufactory is carried
on in the.premises. And if any person or persons shall insure his or their buildings or goods, and shall cause the same
to be described in the policy otherwise than as they really
are, so as the- same be charged a' a lower premium than
would otherwise be demanded, suclh insurance shall be of no
force.
"2. Goods held in trust, or on commission, are to be insured
as such, otherwise the policy will not etend to cover such.
property.
"9. All persons assured by-this, company', sustaining any
loss or damage by fire, are forthwith to give notice to the
company, and as soon as possible thereafter, deliver as particular an account of their loss or damage, signed with their
own hands, as the nature of the case will admit of; and make
proof of the same by their oath or affirmation, and by their
books of accounts, or other proper vouchers, as shall-be reasonably required; and shall procure a certificate under the
hand of a magistrate 'or a sworn notary, of the town or county in which the fire happened, not -concerned in such loss,
directly or indirectly, importing that they are acquaiated
with the character and circumstances of the person or persons insured, and do know, or verily- believe, that he, she, or
they, really, and by misfortune, without any kind of fraud or
evil practice, have sustained by such fire, loss or damage to
the amount therein mentioned; and, until such affidavit and
certificate are produced, the loss claimed shall not be payable; also, if there appears-any fraud, the claimant shall for-

'JANUARY TERM. 1829.
[Columbian Jnsurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

feit hi5 claim to restitution or payment, by-virtue of his -policy."
The property intended to be insured, was proved to be a
square building, four stories high, built of stone to the'square
oreaves, the roof being framed, and coyered 6ntirely. of wood,
the two gable ends- running up perpendicularly from the
stone wall to the top of the roof, they being construced-of
On the 14th of February 1824, the property was iestroyed.
by fire; and the following documents iwere given in evidence,
to sustain the right of the plaintiffs to demand payment of
the loss; the same'having been exhibited as ".the preliminar'
proof of the. loss claimed -under the policy.",
Fr1rcksb'urg,February16, 1824.
To the president,directors,and company, of the Columbian
Insurance Compang'of4lexandria. Gentlemen ;-We regret-that we have now to inform you
of the total-destruction of our mill by fire, on.the night of.
the 14th inst., whicli was insured in your office, the.particilars of which we will forward you as soon as we can prepare
the necessary documents as laid down in the conditions ac:companying the policy.
LAWRENeDE & POuNDMxTER.
The affidavit of the said. Lawrence & Poindexter with
C
the certificate of Murray Forbes, was'annexed.
We hereby certify, that by the'burnig of.our mill, situate
on an island in the county of Stafford, about one mile from
.the town of Fredericksburg, and state of Virginia, called.
the Elba mill, four. stories high, the walls of stone- nd
covered with wood, on which seven thousand- dollars Were
insured by us. in the office of the Columbian Insurance
Company of Alexandria, on the 9th day- of April last, per
policy No, 279, and which was destroyed by fire -on the.
night of Saturday last, the .14th inst., we lost, or were damaged at least twelve -thousand dollars, exclusive of the
contents of said mill. We are entirely ignorant of the rircumstances which occasioned the fire, -and we further certifythat we have no other insurance, directly or indirectly on
the aforesaid property, except the above mentioned-.JosEP, W. LAWRENCE.." THos. Pb1NDExTER,'-UN.-:

30.

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

Commwoiwealth -of Virgin a, Stafford County, to wit:
'Joseph W. Lawrence and Thomas Poindexter this day
personally appeared before me, a justice of the peace for
the said county, and made'oath, in due form, that the above
certificate contains the truth to the best of their knowledge

and belief.

MURRAY FoRBES.

I, Murray Forbes, a magistrate duly commissioned, in
and for the county of Stafford, and state ofVirginia, db hereby
certify that I am. acquainted with Joseph W. Lawrence
and Thomas Poindexter; that the fire originated in their
mill burnt bn the night of the -14th inst. bjr accident, or
without fraud or design oh 'their part, as far as I know or
believe;'and that the damage or loss tley sustained by the
said fire is at least ten thousand dollars. And I further
certify, that trie said. mill was not wjthitt tliirty yards of any
other building, except a corn house, which was about twenty
MURtRAY FoimEs.
yards off.
.The affidavits of Thomas Sedden -and James Vasse, were
annexed.
I , Thomas Sedden, of the town of Fredericksburg, in the
county of Spottsylvania, -'and, state of Virginia, do hereby
certify, .that I am well'acquainted with the mill called and
known by the .iame of the-Elba mill, owned and occupied
by Joseph W. Lawience and-Thsmas ioindexter, .situate
on an island in the county of Stafford, about one mile from
the' towni of Fredericksburg; that -the'said mill was built of
stone four stories high and covered with wood; thatf between
ten and eleven o'clock on Saturday night; the 14th inst., I
was alarmed by the cry of'fire, which I soon ascertained to
be the mill aforesaid; that I have since viewed the ruins,
and am of opinion that it ivould require at leastten thousand dollars to rebuild the same, and restore the proprietors
in the situation they.were in previous to the said fire; that
I' have io-knowledge or idea how th fire originated.
'THojmAs SEDDEN.

Commonwealth of .irginia, Stafford County, to wit:
Thomas Sedden this day personally appeared before me,
one of .the.-commonwealth's justices- of the -peace of the

JANUARY NERM 1829.
EColumbian Insurance Cornpanytra. Lawrence.]

county aforesaid, and made oath to the truth of-the foregoing certificate signed by his hand..,
luiut.-rY FoORDEs.
I, James Vasse, of the town of Falmouth, in the county
of Stafford, and state of Virginia, do hereby certify, that I
am well acquainted with, the mill called and known by the
name of the Elba mill, 6wned and -occupied by Joseph. W.
Lawrence and Thomas Poindexter, situate on an, island in
the county of Stafford, and -about one mile from.the town
of Fredericksburg; that the said mill was built of ston-. four
stories high and ,covered with shingles; that between the
hours bf ten and eleven o'.clock on Saturday night, the 14th
current, I was alarmed by-the cry.of fire, which I soon ascertained to be -the mill aforesaid; that I have since.viewed
the ruins, and I am of opinion that itwill require the sum
of ten thousand dollars, or thereabout, to restore the proprietors to the situation they-were in -revious to the said
fire; farther, that I have no knowledge whatever -how the
fire originated.
JAMEs VAssE.
Commonwealth of Virginia, taftord County, to wit:
James .Yasse ths day personally appeared before me, one
of the commonwealth'o justices of the peace of the county

aforesaid, and made oath to"the truth of the foregoing certificate signed by his hand.
-: MURRAY FoBEs.
The plaintiff also gave in evidence the following extracts
-from the minutes of the proceedings of the insurance company in rel~ttion to the claim of payment for the loss.
.Friday,20th Februari.1824.-Lawrence& Poindexter.'
Claim made by them this day by fheir attorney, Anthony
Buck, with the policy and certificates of loss By.fife, onpolicy No. 279.
On the application of Anthony.i9tck, leave is, given to
Joseph W. Lawrence and Thomas-- Poindexter to assign to
William J. Roberts poli:y No. 279, effected in this offi-c,
without prejudice to any defence. which-this office may have
against the payment-of the sum insured, or to the claim, of
John H. Ladd, & Co. under their attachment heretofore
served on the president of this company.
Saturday, l th" Marelt 1824.-Ordered,That the, secre-,

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Compaiiy vs. Lawrence.j'

tary address a letter to John Scott, to require the title of Lawrence & Poindexter to the Elba mill.
Thursday, 1st pril 1824.--The following papers were
this day received, to wit: A letter from Johri Scott, esq. Fre-dericksburg, covering copies of a deed. from Williato and
George Winchester to Joseph Howard and Josbph-awrence*;'
'an agreement,'bdtween Joseph Howard and loseph Lawrence; and adh agreement between Joseph Lawrence .and
Thomds Poindexter, Jun.
Friday, 16th dpril 1824.-In the case of Lawrence &
Poindexter, 'Ordered, that a copy of the mortgage to the
banks, proof of the execution of the contract between Lawrence and Poindexter on the day it bears date, and a..copy
of the notes in the bank be required.
Thursday, 22d dpril 124.-Lawrence & Poindexter,
The following .papers were presented by R. I. Taylor, esq.
inclosed to- him by Mr John Scott, 'Fredericksburg :-,.Deed
of trust from Joseph Howard and Mary his wife, and Joseph
W. Lawrence, to William J. Roberts, for the benefit of the
banks, dated 13th May 1314.
An agreement between Joseph W. Lawrence and Thomas
Poindexter, dated 28th November 1822.
A copy of a note draWnv by Howard & Lawrence, dated
toth March 1824, to :the Farmer's Bank of Virginia, at
"Fredericksburg, -for $1,800,
.- A.copy ,of another note, dated 5th March 1824, drawn by
the sane, to the Bank of Virginia, at Fredericksburg, for
four thousand one hundred and eighty seven dollars.
'Saturday, 26th June 1824.--:-Walter Jones, esquire's opinion having been submitted to a called board this day, on mo-"
tion of Mr Mandeville, it was resolved that the claim-of Lawrence & Poindexter be resisted, -and that the secretary
furnish them with a copy of this resolution.
Wednesday, 11th ftbvember 1824.-Will the board now
enter into a compromise with John Scott, esq, for the claim
of Lawrence & Poindexter on this office, it being perfectly
- understood that an agreement.to enter into a' compromise is
not to be considered as an adniission' of the claim q Yes'.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

Thursday, fSth .T'ovember 1824.-The board having duly
considered the. case of Lawrence & Poindexter, decline
making any compromise at this time, and the secretary is
directed to inform Mr Scott of their determination,
1Iriday, lth December i824.--4A communication from
John Scott, e~q' of Frediericksburi, was received; where-

upon it was crdered that a board be called for to-morrow at
twelve o'clock, to receive said John Scott's proposals for a'i.

arrangement in the case of Lawrence & Poindexter'
Saturday, 11th December 1824.-On application of John
Scott, esq. it-is agreed to receive propositions for an arrangement between John Scott fand this office, in the case of
Lawrence and. Poindexte'rxwithout prejudice to either of the
parties concerned.". John Scott, esq. has this day proposed
to settle his claim against-this office by receiving from them
fifty cents in the dollar in full for said claim.. Will the lgoard
now agree to pay said Scott fifty cents ' They will not;
•The opinion of Walter Jones,- esq. counsel of the defendants, referred to in the minutes, was as follows.
"Claim of Lawrence & Poindexter, as stated by the
Columbian Insurance Company of Alexandria.
"An equitable title in general is doubtless an insurable
interest against fire ; but it seems that- the interest in this
case was so incumbered with liens and precedent conditions,
as to make the legal estate not worth' the calling for on the
part of the insured; whilst, on the other hand, their circumstances-were suci as in all probability to make any suit
.against them, for a specific execution of the- contract, or
for compensation for damages, fruitless and unproductive;
so-that, to any practical effect or.'purpose, the insured were
unable"to call for the legal estate by performing- the contract of sale, and, .consequenily, the veidor ha' no motive
to throw the-legal estate upon them by a compulsory execfition, of such contract. How the insurance may )3e affected
by such a state of facts, is a question entirely at large, and,
unde,armined by authority' and if.there were any insurable
"interest, it might be matter of serious -doubt, under the peculiar circumstances of the pr6perty and the prties;,to what
VOL. I.-E

SUPREME COURT.
'Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

degree the general terms in which the description of the
estate to be innured is given, (unlimited by ktny specification, of the quality of the estate, or of the -valueand quantity of the interest) involved misrepresentation or concealment.
"Whether in the description of a stone building covered
with wood the gables be necessarily understood to be a part
of the masonry, is a question of art belonging to architects
:r house-builders, and depending upon the common use
and understanding of the terms. connected with that art.
How upon these principles would a contract to build a house
of brick Or stone covered with wood be understood! would
,the undertalkers be bound to run up the gables with brick
or stone. If that question be answered in the .affirmative,
(as I am informed, and indeed haveno doubt it should be,)
then the omission in this case, to disclose the fact of timber
gables, i§ aconcealment of a material fact; and the unqualified description given of a storie mill, a material misrepre:W. Jo±xns."
sentation which avoids the policy.
to the prorelative
witnesses
also
examined
plaintiff
The
ceedings of the board, Propn which,, as well as from the facts
stated in the minutes, he claimed t infer, that if there was
a defect in the preliminary proof, the'same had been waived
by the representatives -of the insurance company. .This
evidence, so far as it was by the court considered to affect or
influence the law'and merits of the case, is sufficientlyset
out in the opinion of the court. After this and other testimony to the same effect had been given, on the part of the
plaifitiff, the defendants' .counsel objected to the admissibility, competency, and sufficiency of the same, and of all or
anyof the facts thereby proved; admitting the same to be
trueias above stated; to entitle-the plaintiffs to recover for
the loss stated in the declaration and proved by the evidence; and the grounds of the said objections were specifi.cally stated as follows:
1. That the interest claimed by the: plaintiffs in the
property insured,-as.disclosed by such evidence, was not at

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Columbian Insurance-Company vs. Lawrence.]

the respective times of effecting the insurance, and of the
happening of the.loss, an insurable interest ahd property.2. That it was not such an interest as is described in the
original -offer of the plaintiffs' agfnt, for- insurance, and- in
the policy, nor such as is averred in the declarati'n."
3. That the said documents, 'produced as preliminary
proof of loss,'do not- import a fulfilment, on the part of the
plaintiffs, with the terms and conditions Upon which the loss
is declared to be payable by the ninth of the said printed
proposals, or rules -annexed to.the policy.-,
And the counsel for the defendants thereupon prayed the
opinion and direction of the court to the jury, that the said
evidence was not admissible, competent, and sufficient.to-be
left to the jury as proof of the plaintiffs".title to recover for,
such loss-in this action.
Which" instruction 'the court refused to giver beiig, of
opinion, 1. That the interest of the plaintiffs in the property insured, -asdisclosed by the said evidence, -isa suffi-'
cient insurable interest to support the policy, and the avermeat of interest in the plaintiffs' declaration in this action.
2. That 'it is such an interest as isdescribed in the
original offer foe insurance, and in- the policy and in the -declaration; and
3 That, although the said certificate of Murray Forbes
is not' such.'a certificate as is required by the said ninth rule
annexed to thesaid. pdlicy, yet -the evidence aforesaid is admissible, .competent, and sufficidnt-to be left to the jury,"aud
from which "they may infer that the. defendants waived the
objection to the said certificate, and to th6 other preliminary
proqf 'aforesaid.
,
.The counsel for the defendants below tiok a bill of' i'ceptions to the refusal and opinion of.the' court.'
The defendants then gave evidence of the nature and particulars of the property insuredi'that, in a policy of insurance upon the same property, by-the Mhtital Ins~urance Society of Virginia; Lawrence & Poindexter had described
the property differently, stating it td be " covered with wood;
gable ends of the roof of wood;" that Lawrerice&-Poindex-

.386

'sUPREME COURT
[Columfbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

ter were insolvent; and that the property had. greatly depreoeiated in value ;Othat the title to the .property was embarrassed, and litigated in, chancery; that-the property thus
incumbered was not worth the purchase, and that the assured were'unable to comply with their agreements to pay forthe same, or 'to respond in damages for the breach thereof.
The plaintiff also produced evidence to show that it was
the.usual practice of the country to build the gable end of
brick, or'stone mills of wood; and that a mill so constructed
Ifad been insured by .the"Mqtual Insurance Society, described in the same terms used in the policy, upon which
this suit was brought.
Whereupon the defendants prayed the opinion of the
court, and their instfuction to the jury, that if the said contracts between Howard and Lawrence, and between Law-rence and Poindexter, have *not been .performed. on either
side; and if, Irom the:actual state and condition of the title,
and the. value of the property' bargained for between Howard and Lawrence, and between Lawrence and Poindexter.
in the said contracts;' and from the circumstances of the
parties, the said contracts between. the said parties could
not have beeoi speIcifically perfdrmed, or effectually enforced
on either side,.so as tohave vested thelegal estate pursuant
t6 said contracts; or to have vested in said Lawrence &
Poindexter an equitable estate, with a right to call for the
legal lstate; and that the said-contracts between the said
-parties were not practically available, but were, as to the
practical intent and purpose which they purported an intent
to effectuate, incapable of being executed; then the said
* Lawrence & Poindexter had not, at the time of the said
insurance, and of .the said loss, such an interest in the said
-mill as to entitle them, or either of them, 'to recover in this
action for. the loss averred in the declaration, and proved by
the evidence.
Which instructibn the court refused; being of opinion that
it would leave a quesiion of law to the jury, viz. Whether,
under the circumstaneds therein stated, the said parties
thereinmentioned, 6r either of them, 'could be compelled

JANUARkYTERM -1829.
-[Columbian Insurance- Company vs. LawFrence.]

specifically to perform the agreements therein mentioned;
and because the court is of opinion, that, under thQ circumstances stated in the said evidence, the plaintiffs bad, at the
time of effecting the insurance, and at the time of the loss,
an insurable interest in :the said mill.
YVhereupon the defendants prayed the opinion of the
court, and their instruction to the jury, that, in order to verify the description of the property insured, as. given in the
policy, it is necessary that the 'whdle of the exterior walls
of the mill-house, upon which the.roof or covering rests,
from the fodfidation to the top of the roof should be.ofstone
and-that, if the plan of the said house were such as that two
of the exterior v alls. terminated in upright gable-eids, run
up perpendicularly from the eaves-to the top. bf the 'of;
and. sloping at'the same angle, as the pitch of the roof) such
gable ends not properly foring, accordingto tho ordinary
rules and terms of architecture, a part of the "covering- or
roof; it was necessary, to verify the said description, that
such *gableends should have been. of stone and if, iri
point.
of fact, such gable ends, as well as the covering or roof were
of wood, which, under any circumstances of actual.conflagration , might:have increased, either the risk- of catching
fire,•or the difficulty of extinguishing or stopping the pro;gress of fire once commence'd,.it amounted. to a material
misrepresentatiQn, 'and avoids tle policy; -and it is not ma-.'
terial whether the said misrepresentation was wilful and fraudulent, or from ignorance. and without desigi, nor whether
the actual loss-was produced by such misrepresentation, or
by having gable ends of wood instead 6f stone.
.Which .instruction the court refused; being of opinion'
-that it was competent for.the jury, ftom all the facts given
-in -evidence, to decide,- whether, in order to verify -the said'
description "inthe' said 'policy, it was necessary that the'
whole of the exterior walls, from the'. foun4ation to the itop
of the Toof,. should be of stone.
And being also of opinion, that, -under the first of the rqles
-nnexed to the said policy, and referred to therein, .novariation in,- the description of'the property insured from:-the

38

'

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Ihsurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

frue description thereof, not made fraudulently, would vitiate the policy, unless by reason of such variation the insurance was made at a lower premium than would otherwise
have been demanded.
The defendants then proved,.by James Sandersoh,. the
witness before sworn and examined on the part of the plain-

tiff, that, in making the insurance.aforesaid, the defendants
were not governed bythe said printed rates of premium, and
did not insure the, said mill as a building under the class
No.'4 of the said printed rates, though the same premium
therein indicated 'was charged;- but .that the board, in their
discretion, fixed the premium as for an extra risk, considering the frequent at. idents to mills, from the circumstance
of millers being iii lie habit of grinding all night; and if the
insurers had understood the mill to-have been built with
woa4en instead of stone gable ends, it would have been. at
their dis'cretion to have charged a higher premium, or to
have declined the risk. And the plaintiff's counsel-having
argued to the jury upon the-presumed'authority of the court's
opinion upon the second of the aforesaid instructions, moved
by the counsel for the defendants, and overruled as aforesaid, that the misrepresentation of the class of the buildihg
insured, if found by the jury.to be such as above objected
on the part of defendafits, did not vitiate or avoid the policy, either as a breach of-warranty or' misrepresentation, unless it had been designedly 'and fraudulently made, or bad
induced-the, defendants to insure at'alower premium than
they would otherwise have done; and that; in fact, the insurance was done at the maximum rate indicated by the said.
printed rates..
The counsel for the defendants thei eupon prayed the
opinion of the court, and an instruction to the jury, that if
the jury find lom the evidence -that the materials and description bf the mill, -fr the destructioih of which this loss is
claimed,.as it ietually existed-at the time of insurance,.dif-fered from the representation of the same made by the plaintiffs, or their agents, at the time of effecting the 'said insiurance,.in this: that the walls at the two ends of the building,

JANUARY TERM

829.

39

LColumbian fnsurance Coinpany vs. Lawrence.]

all the way from the eaves to the top. of the roof, constituting what are commonly called the gable ends, were- constructed of wood instead of stone, and that the risk from fire
was greater with such wooden gable ends than if-they had
been constructed of stone; it ought to be deemed .a material misrepresentation, and avoids the policy, whether such
misrepresentation proceeds from fraud, or casual -inadvertence in the assured; and, in such case, it is not necessary
for the defendants to prove further, that a higher premium
would have been charged, if a true and accurate representation of the building had been made; nof does if vary the
effect-of such misrepr.esentation, that the highest rate of premium stated in the said printed-rates, was actually charged
for the said, insurance.
Which instruction the court refused to give for the followthe
ing reason: that, under the first of the rules annexed t.o
said policy, and referred- to therein, no variation in the description of the property insured from the true description
thereof, not "made fraudulently, would vitiate the policy, un-.
less by reason of such variation the- insurance was made at
a lower premium than would otherwise have been demanded.
Whereupon the defendafits prayed the opinion of the
court, and their instruction to the jury, that the said J. W.
Lawrence, as the survivor of the saidLawrence & Poindexter, if entitled, upon the principles aforesaid, to recover
any thing in this action, is not'entitled to recover any thing
more than a moiety of the said loss.. W ich instruction the
court also refused, and the defendants excepted.
Messrs Jones and C. C. Lee, for the plaintiff in.error, made
the following points.
I. In order to fulfil either the general law of insurance
against fir'e, or the contract of insurance in this case, or the
averments of the declaration; the interest of the insured in
the freehold estate that 6onstituted the particular subject-of
insurance, should have consisted in a substantial ownership
and proprietaryright, legal or equitable: whereas nothing
appears from the paper-muniments, which the plaintiff re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

lied on as the sole evidence of such .interest, but a nakea
pretence, or mere -colour of title.
2. If any technical estate, equivalent to an insurable interest, appeared, yet its 6siential-qufity, 4uantity and condition,, were either positively misrepresented by the assertion
of unqualified ownership and proprietary right; or were concealed,, when *aparticular disclosure of the nature and con.ditiono of the interest was material.
. Theefore, whether a total defect of interest iipppared, or
its essential attributes' were either misrepresented or conze¢led, or the plaintiff failed in proving-the more specific
averment of interest in the declarafion, the defendants were,
at all' events, eniitled to the general instruction, against the
p)ai~atiff's right of action, asked of the court.
. A. If-thes'paper-muniments did imp6rt,primafacie,any
ios.Urable-inlerest, the presumption was absolutely repelled
by.'the facts prbved on the other sidel; showing ihe suppos.ed
title in equity. to have .lreen merely nominal or colourable.'
Therefore, thetdirection 'o the jury, asked by the defendants of .the court
this point, should.have been granted
.On theliypothesis of proof therem stated; not.being liable to
fife obiection stated by the court, of referring matter of law
bto
tht jury. On. the. contrary, the court in their positive
dliboioqn tdthe, jury, teat'the insured, under the circum.Stances'supposed, had a sub'stantfal property- in the subject
of insurance , trenched more upon the province of-faqt; than
the ury, :under the required direction, would ihave done on
that of law.
4. The 'preliminary tests of the claim of-loss, .required
by the ninth fbndaniental rule'above cited, are strictly.in ihe
nature of a condition precedent;. and cannot bp dispensed
with,' but- by an "xpress di.scharge:. consequently, the. evidence'or " inference'of a W.aiver by implication was i'nadmissible'.
'. The declaration avers an actual compliance with. the
"iule
therefore, no evidence-of any dispensation
from it, express orimplied,: was admissible.
.;f, Th! circumstances, from. which such a waiver -wa

JAN UARY TERM 1829.
(Colinbian Insurnce lompany vs. Lawreuce.]

inlerreci by tile court in this case, were wholly insufficient
to raise any legal or reasonable presumption to that effect..
whereas, from Ihe terms of tile court's direction td the jury,
it must have been received by the jury as a positive pi esumption or inference of law from written evidence. The company were in no manner bound to communicate their reasons
for resisting the claim; and their resolution to resist it, notified as it was in general terms to the insured, covered the
whole ground; and was just as good notice, if any was required, of one defect as another in the claim.
7. The misrepresentation, of the materials and construc,:
tion of the building insured, was palpable and material; and
the direction to the jury, asked by the defendants and refused by the court on this point, properly referred the fact
of misrepresentation, and the circumstances, from which its
materiality resulted, to the jury; the effect of such misrepresentation, and the result of materiality from the circumstances,'to the court.
8. The first of the said rules above cited, did not reduce
the materiality of rniisrepresentatin-n the policy to the alternative tests of fraud, or of a-consequent reduction- in the
rate of insurance, as was ruled by the court: or, if it did, then
such reduction in the rate of insurance was a necessary presumption, from a lower risk, and was not to be proved, aliunde, as was also r equiied by the court.
9. The fact, that a premium" equal, to the highest rate
for insurance on-the fourth class of hazards indicated in the
said printed list of rates, had been paid, was wholly imma-'terial; and did iot, as ruled by the court, convert the risk
itself to one ofthat'class, as on a "slight or timber building;" when the specific description ofit in the policy, identified it with the.lower risk indicated in the second class of the,
said printed rates; and it turned out, in fact, to be neither of
the second nor of the fourth class, but identically of the third:
nor did it suipply any competent cvidence wlatc'cr; far less
conclusive evidence, as was, in clihet, ruled by the court;
that the premium was, ii fact, accommodated to any higher
risk than that specifically described in the policy:
VOL. I.-F

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

10, The defendants, in the direction~asked of the court
.to the jury on this point, condescended to the terms of materiality bf misrepresentation, and an actual increase of the
risk: They, nevertheless, maintain that the description of
the risk, in the body of the policy, amounted to a warranty
that it was actually of the class of hazards, to which that
description specifically referred it.
For the plaintiffs in error2 were cited, 2 A/larsh. on Ins. 787.
.Id. 115. 118. 2 Caines's Rep. 13. 2 Caines's Cases in
Error, 110. 4Dall. 421. 1 Johns. 341. 3Dow. 255. 2
JMarsh. 811.
Mr Swann and Mr Wirt, for the defendant in error, maintained, that the circuit court did not errin giving or refusing the charges to the jury, as set forth in the several bills
of exceptions. They cited Burk & Iedrick vs. The Chesapeake Ins. Company, 1 Peters,151. 1 .Marshallon Insurance, 114, 115. 8 T. R. 13. 2 .New Rep. 269. 13 ,Mass.
Rep: 96. Id. 267. 3 Jass.Rep. 133. Phil. onIns. 85. 128.
499. 1"Johns. Rep. 220. 9 Johns. 192-. 6 Harris Johnson, 612. 6 Cranch, 338, 9. 5 Cranch, 100.109. 2Sch.4Lef. 712. 13 John. .561. 3 M~ar-shall, 221. Doug. 11. Also
.f Chitty on Ins. 31-7, 18. 1 T. R.. 638. Doug. 684. 687, 688.
Mr Chief Jfistice MAaSHArLiL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This writ of error is brought to a -judgment of the court
of the United States, for the district of Columbia, Sitting in
the county of Alexandria; which was rendered in a cause in
which Joseph Lawrence, survivor of Lawrence & Poindextdr& was plaintiff, and the Columbian Insurance Company of Alexandria were defendants.
The suit was brought on a policy insuring a mill, stated
in the representation and in the policy, to belong to -Law-rence & Poindexter, the assured. Pending -the suit, Poiniexter died; and the suit was continued ind tried ia -the
name of Lawrence the survivor. The verdict and judgment
were in favour of the plainitiff below. At the trial, the court,

JANUARY TERM 1829.

.43

[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

on the motion of the defendant's counsel, instructed the-jury
on several questions of law which were made in the case; to
which instructions the counsel for the.defendants in the circuit court excepted, and the cause is now before this Court
on those exceptions.
The plaintiff in the circuit court had exhibited his policy,
the representation on which the contract of insurance was
*founded; his pr6ofa of title and of loss, the notice which he
gave of that loss, together with the documents which accompanied it, as preparatory to the asser.tion of his claim
against the company; and the proceedings of the company
in consequence of that claim, which terminated in a refusal
to pay it. .he counsel for the plaintiff in the circuit court,
'having thus concluded his case, the counsel fori,'the defendants made three objections to his right of action.
1. That the interest claimed by the plaintiff in -tie property insured, as disclosed by'the evidence; was not, at the
respective times of effecting the insurance, and of the happening of the loss, an insurable interest and property.
2. That it was not such an interest as is described in the
original offer of the plaintiff's agenit for insurance, and in the
policy; nor such as is averred in the declaration.
3. That the said documents produced as preliminary proof
of loss, do not import a fulfilment, on the part of the plaintiff, of the terms and conditions upon which the Joss is declared to be payable, by the ninth of the said printed rules
anexed. to the policy.
And the counsel for the defendants thereupon prayed the
opinion and direction of the court to the jury, that the said
evidence was not admissible, competent, and sufficientto be
left to the jury as proof of the plainfiff's title to recoverf6r
such loss in this action.
.The court refused to give iis instruction, being of opinion, 1. That the interest of the plaintiffs in the property insured, as disclosed by the said eyidence, is a sufficient insurable interest to support the -policy, and the averment of
interest in the plaintiffs' declaration in thig action.
2. That it is such an interest as is described in the origi-

44

SUPREME COURT
[Columbian lnsurance Company vs. Lawrence.j

nat'offer for insurance, and in the policy, and in the declaration.
3.. That although the said certificate of Murray.Forbes is
not such a certificate as is required by the said ninth rule
annexed to the said policy; yet the evidence aforesaid is admissible, dompetent, and sufficient to be left to the jury ; and
from which they may infer, that the defendants waived the
objection to the said certificate, and to the other preliminary
proof aforesaid.
The counsel for the defendants in error have made some
preliminary objections to the terms in which the opinion of
the circuit court was asked. The counsel prayed the opinion and direction of the' ourt to the jury,.that the evidence
offered by the plaintiff wvas not admissible, conipetent, and
sufficient to. be left to the jury as proof of the plaintiff's title
to recover. This blending of an objection to the admissibility of evidence in the same application Which questions its
sufficiency,"is said to be not only uniusual ;but to confound
propositions distinct in themselves, and to be. calculated to
embarrass the court, and the questions to be decided.
It is undoubtedly true, that -questions respecting the admissibility of evidence, are entirely distinct from those which
respect its sufficiency or effect. They arise in different
stages of the trial, and cannot with strict propriety be propourded.at the same time. If, therefore, the circuit court
had proceeded no further than* to refuse the instruction
which was asked, this Court might have considered the refusdl as proper; unless the entire prayer, as niade, ought to
have been granted. But t'he circuit court proceeded to give its
opinion on the, different points made by counsel, .ind these
opinions must be examined.
1. The first is, that the interest of the assured in the property insured, is a sufficient insurable interest to support the
policy, and the averment of interest in the' declaration.
The .mill insured was -built on an island in the Rappahan•noc, which was demised by Charles Mortimer to Stephen
Winchester, for. three lives, renewable for ever, at-the year-

JANUA.Y TURM 1M9.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrehcej

ly rent of £80, ($266 66 cents ;) with a condition bfre eitry
for rent in arrear, &c..
"o1801;Dec. 19. S;, W. conveyed:oine undivided: third
part to Richard Winchester,' and another undivided :third
part-to Joshua Howard;
1806, May. 9. R. an'd S. Winchester conveyed to Joshua
Howard, by deed of mortgage in fee, -their two thirds of:the
said island, with other property tO a considerable amount, in
order to secure the said Howard to the amount of $4 ,06(.
1813, Jan. 27, Joshua Howard conveyed the'Whole island
to.William and George Winchester.
1813, Sept. 23. William and George Winchester conveyed the island to Joseph' Howard -and' Joseph. W; Lawretiee.
1818, Jul' 22. Joseph Howard entered into an.agreement with -Joseph W. Lawrence, by which'. the said Law-,
rence was to take the island, &c.-at .the price of P0,000 ;
for which amount in debth,-due :from Howard & Lawrence'
he was to procure a releasej on his doing which, Howard
was to execute a deed for the .property ; on the failure or
inability.of Lawrence to procure-this release, the contrket
was to be void.
1822, Nov. 28. Joseph W. Lawrence enters 'into an
agreement with Thomas Poindbxter, Jun..for the'sale of one
half of the island; mills, &c.; for. which the said Poindextdr
agrees to assume and take upon himself one half the debts
due from Howard & Lawrbnce .to the banks in Fredercksbuig ; 'which were secured by a -deed of trust.
Nov. 29. An agreement between- Howard and Lawrence
to work the mills in'
partnership.
By ihe'deeds of'January -27,-and Sept. 23, 1813, -all the
title of Joshua Howard tbi the islahd on 'which the mjlls
insured were"erected, passed to Joseph Howard and Joseph
W. Lawrence..'- Whatwas that title .
He held one third patin hiis-own right, and the remaining two .thirds as mortgagee.
*The agreement of July 22; 1818,- between Howard and
Lawrence, does no'appear ta have been 'performed on the.
part of Lawrence;. hor is ther6 any evidence of' his ability

46

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company.vs. Lawrence.]

-toperform it ;- but it.does not appear.that Howard has taken
any step to avoid it, or has asserted any title in himself.
The -agreement of Nov. 28, 1812, between Lawrence and
Poindexter, admits Poindexter to an undivided moiety of
any interest Lawrence might have in the property.
Lawrence & Poindexter then, when the insurance was
made, were entitled to one third of the property under
the deed made by Charles Mortimer, and to the remaining
two thirds as .mortgagees; but one moiety of the whole,
which moiety was derived from Joseph Howard under the
agreement of July 22, 1818, was held under an agreement
which had not been complied with, and which purported on
its face to be void if not complied with; but the other contracting party had not declared it void, nor called for a compliance With it.
- It cannot be doubted, we think, that the assured had an
interest in the property insured. Lawrence had an unquestionable title to a moiety of one third, subject to the
rent reserved in the original lease, and to a moiety of the
remaining two thirds as mortgagee. He had such title to

the other moiety 'as could be acquired by an agreement for
a purchase, the terms of which had not been complied with
The title is thus stated, because those -words which declare the contract to be void if Lawrence should fail to
comply with it, do not, we think, rendep it absolutely void,
'but only voidable. ' No time for performance is fixed.; and

if Howard is content with what has. been -done by Lawrence, and does not choose to annul the contract, the
underwriters of this policy cannot treat it as a nullity.
Lawrence, having ihis .title under an' 'executory contract,
.sells to Poindexter one'undivided moiety of the property.
.These two persons, being both in possession, partly under
legal conveyance.s and 'partly under executory contracts ,
require an insurance on it.
against' loss'by fire. Had they
an insurable ifiterest k
That an equitable interest may be insured is admitted.
We can perceive no reason which excludes an interest held
under an executory contract.. While the'contract subsists,

J ANUARY TERM 1829.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

the person claiming Under it fias undoubtedly a substantial
interest in the property. If it be destroyed, the loss in contemplation 6f law, is his. If the purchase money be paid,
it is his in fact. If he owes the purchase money, the property is its equivalent, and is still valuable to him. The
embarrassment of his afftirs maybe suoh that his debts may
absorb all his property; but this circumstance has never
been considered as proving a want of interest in it. The
destruction of the property is a real loss to the person in
possession, who claims title under an executory contract,
and the contingency that his title may be defeated by subsequent events does not prevent this loss. We perceive no
reason why he should not be permitted to insure against it.
The cases cited in argument,, and those summed up in
Phillips on Insurance, 26, on insurable interest, and in
1 Marshall, 104, ch. 4.,. and 2 Mdrshall, 787, ch. 11, prove,
we think, that any actual interesi, legal or equitable, is insurable.
2. Having declared the interest of Lawrence & Poindexter
to be insurable, the circuit court instructed the jury that
" it is such an interest isis described in the original offer
for insurance, and in the policy, and in the declaration."
The original offer for insurance was in these words,
"What premium will you ask to insure the following property belonging to Lawrence & Poindexter- for one yd ar
against loss or dagmage, by fire?. On their stone mill four
stories high, covered with wood, on-an island about one
mile from Fredericksburg in the county of Stafford; the
mill called .Elba mill. Seven thousand dollars are wanted.
Not within thirty yards. of any other building, except a corn
house, w;hich is about twenty yards off."
The policy states that the underwriters insure Lawrence
&-Poindexter against loss or damage by fire, to the amount
of $7000 on their stone mill, &c. The declaration charges that the defendants insured th6
plaintiffs $7000 ag@ainst loss or damage by fire on their stone
mill, &e.; and avers that they were interested in, and the

48

SUPREME COURT.
[Cohmhian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

equitable owners of the premises insured as aforesaid at the
time the insurance was made as aforesaid, &c.
The matbrial inquiry is, does tie offer for-insurance state
truly the interest of the assured in the property to be insuredq The offer descr.ibes the property as belonging to
LaWrence &. Poindexter; and states it afterwards to be
their stone mill. It contains no qualifying termsi/ which
should lead the mind to suspect that their title was not
complete and absolute. The plaintiffs. in error contend that
the terms import an absolute legal estate in the property;
and that the. insurers entered .into the contract, having a
right to believe that the interest of the assured was of this
character.
Instead of such an estate in the property as the representation justified the insurers in expecting, the proof shows
that the insured held only one half of 6ne third, under a
lease for three lives, renewable for ever, and one half of-the
other two thirds as mortgagees; that the other moiety was
held under a contract, the terms of which had not been
complied with; and which, if complied with, would give
them a title to two thirds of that moiety only as mortgagees.
The defendants insist that the representation is satisfied
by an equitable title under an executory contract, and that
in truth and in fact, the mill did, at .the time of its insurance and loss, belong to Lawrence & Poindexter.
It may be true, that a mill occupied by Lawrence and
Poindexter, and held under a lease or an executory contract,.
would be generally spoken of by themselves and others as
their mill. The property alluded to would be well understood, and no inconvenience could arise from this mode of
designating it.. But if Lawrence & Poindexter should
-proceed to sell the property as theirs, should describe it in
the contract .as belonging to them,' no 6ourt would compel
the purchaser to take the title they could make,
I The assured then have not proied " such an interest as
is described, in the original offer for insurance;" arid thecircuit court, in this respect, misdirected the jury. It may

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs Lawrence.]

be proper to take some notice of the materiality of this misdirection.
The contract for insurance is one in which, the underwriters, generally, act on the representation of the assured;
and that representation ouglht consequently to be fair, and
to omit nothing which it is material fbr the underwriters to
know. It may not be necessary thatthe person requiring
inpurance, should state every incumbrance on his property,
which it might. be required'of him to state, if it-was offered
for sale; but fair dealing requires that he should stateevery
thing which might influence, and probably would influence,
the mind of the underwriter in -forming or declining the
contract. A building held under a lease for years about to
expire, might be generally spoken of as the building of the
tenant; but no underwriter would be willifig to insure it as
if it was his; and an offer for insurance, stating it to belong
to him, would be a gross imposition.
Generally speakipg, insurances against fire are made in
the confidence, that the assured will use all the precautions
to avoid the calamity insured again.t, which would be sug.gested by his interest. The extent of this interest must
always influence the underwriter in taking or rejecting the
risk, and in estimating the premium. So far as it may influence him in these respects, it ought to be communicated
to him. Underwriters do not rely so much upon the principles as on the interest of the assured ; and it would seem,
therefore, to be always material that they should know how
far this interest is engaged in guarding. the property from
loss. "Mafshall, in treating on insurance against fire, p.
789, b. 4, ch. 2, says; " It is not necessary, however, in
order to constitute an insurable interest, that the insured
shall, in every instance, have the absolute and unqualified
property of the effects insured. A trustee, a mortgagee, a
reversioner, a factor or agent, with the custudy of goods to
be sold upon commission, may insure; but with this caution,
that the nature of the property be distinctly specified."
In all the treatises on insurances, and in all the cases in
which the question has arisen, the principle is, that a misVOL. II.-G

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

representatioul which is material to the risk, avoids the policy.
In this case the circuit court has decided that there is no
misrepresentation; that the interest of the assured was truly
described in the offer for. insurance; and consequently, no
question on the materiality of the supposed variance was
submitted to the jury.
As this court is of opinion that a precarious title, depending for its continuance on events which might or might not
happen, is not such a title as is described in tihe offer for
insurance, construing the words of that offer as they are
fairly to be understood; the circuit court has :in this respect
mis-directed the jury.
3. The third opinion given to the jury is, that the evidence
given by the plaintiff in the circuit court, was admissible,
competent and sufficient to be left to the jury, and'liom
which they may infer that the defendants waived the objection to the said e ertificate, and to the other'preliminary proof
aforesaid. "The certificate to which this instruction refers,
is, by one of the Tul-es which form conditions of the policy,
declared to be an indisliensable requisite; without the production of which, the l6ss claimed "shall not be payable."
A certificate intended by the assured to .satisfy this condi-t ion, a companied the proof ofloss; but it is not such a certificate as the condition requires; and such was the opinion
of the circuit court. The testimony which the court left to
the- jury as being sufficient to authorize them to infer a,
waiver on the part of the insurers of this certificate, consisted of entries on the minutes of the board, with some parol
proof.
On the 20th of February 1824, the claim of Lawrence &
Poindexter was submitted to the board with the policy and
certificate of loss.
On the 1-3th of March, an order was made, requiring the
title papers of Lawrence & Poindexter to the Elba mill.
Oi the first of April, copies of the deed from William and
George Winchester to Joseph Howard and Joseph Lawrence,
of the agreement between Howard and Lawrence, and of the
agreement between Lairence and Poindexter, were laid be-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Columbian Insurance'Company~es. Lawrence.1

fore the board. On the 16th of April,.farther proof respecting the title was required, which was, produced on the 22d
of the same month.
The opinion of Mr'Jones was taken- on the case, which
was submitted to the board on the 28th of June, when it was

resolved, "that the claim of Lawrence & Poindexter be.resisted; and that the secretary furnish them with a copy of
this Tesolution.
The opinion of Mr Jones-turns on the interest of the
.assured, and on the question whether the loss was fair or
fraudulent.
On the 11th of November, inquiry was made whether the
board would enter into-a compromi9e; "it being understood
that the agreement" "is not to be considered as an' admis-L
sion of the claim". Answered " yes."
On the 18th of November, the .-board passed a resolution
declining a compromise, -which was communicated to the
agent of Lawrence & Poindexter.
On the 11th of December, a. farther and more spdcific
proposition for a compromise was made by the agent of the
'assured, which was rejected by the company.
The secretaty of the coiiipany was examined, to-prove the
communications between him and the agent of the assured.
When the documentary evidence was exhibited, he informed
the agent that he would call a board to decide on the claim.
After- the -board had met and adjourned, he informed the
agent that the -claim would probably be resisted; that the
company thought the interest of the assured was not insur-able; that the representation Was not faithful; and that Poindexter had -set fire to the mill. No objection was made to
the preliminary papers. The custom of the board was, if
the. claim for indemnity was thought just, to referi the preliminary papers to their secretary to see if they were regular.
In this case no such reference was made.
From the first presentation of the.papers in February, till
the passing of the 'inal resolution in June, the claim was
pending undetermined before the board, waiting for the
advice of' counsel. This advice heing delayed by the ab-

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

sence and other engagements of counsel, an agreement was
entered into with the agent of the assured, that if the final
resolution should be to resist the claim, ihe suit should be
put as- forward on the docket as if brought to the intervening
April term. This agreement was complied with.- All the
orders and resolutions of the board which have been stated
Were communicated, by the witness to the agent-of the assured; and are the only communications which he was authorized to make.
According to the invariable usage of the board, the sufficiency of the documents offered by way of preliminary.proof
of loss, as required by the ninth article of the rules annexed
to the policy ; was not to be considered by the board, till tile
principle of the claim should -have been admitted, and then
the course was to submit such documents to the secretary
for a special report thereon; in this case the sufficiency of
the documents was never discussed or considered by the
board, nor referred to the secretary. It never was contemplated by the witness, nor to his knowledge by the board;
to waive any compliance with this'ninth article. The consideration of the documents offered under'it, did not regalarly come on till the claim should be admitted in principle..
* The agent of the assured was preseht.at some of the
meetings of the board when the witness was absent. "He
has understood that on-these opcasions the.communidations
between them, turned 'entirely on questions respecting the
fundamental objections to the claim. The regularity or
irregularity of the preliminary proof was never mentioned.
The opinion'given by counsel was neyer communicated to
the assured or their agent. To have done so, would have'
been contrary to the rules and to usage.
This evidence was left to the jiry as testimony from which
they might infer that the preliminary proof, required by the
ninth rule annexed to the policy, ds indispensable to 'entitle
the-assured to demand payment for a loss, had been waived
by the underwriters.
It will not be pretended that any expression is to be found
either in the resolutions of the board or in the conversations

JANUARY TERM 18i29.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

held by their secretary with the agent of the assured, having
the slightest allusion to this preliminary proof or to the
waiver of it. If then the jury might infer a waiver, the inference must be founded on the opiniori that. the board was
bound to specify this particular objection; or that they have
taken sonie step or made some communication,- which presupposes an acquiescence in the certificate which.was offered.
The' resolution of the board to resist the claim is expressed
in general terms,, and consequently. applies to every part of
the testimony offered in support of it.' We, know of no
-principle n6r usage which requires underwriters to specify
their objections, or which justifies the inference that any
objection is waived. We know of no principle by which.
this preliminary proof should be separated from the other
proofs which were required to sustain the claim, and its insufficiency be remarked to the assured. The general resolutioq of the board was n6tice to the assured that if they
intended to*assert their claim in a court of justice, they must
come-into court-prepared to support it.
2. Did' the- examination of the title and the proceedings
of ihe board respecting-it presuppose an examination of the
preliminary,proofs, and am acquiescence in its*su fficency ,
We think not. The proof of interest, and the certificate
which was to-precede payment, if the- claim should be admitted; are distinct parts of the case to be made out by the
assured. Neither of those parts depends on the other. The
one or the other may be first considered, without violating
propriety or convenience. The. consideration of the one.doss nt imply a previous consideration and approval of the
other. The langudage of the ninth rule does not imply that
the proof it requires is first in order for consideration., After
stating what shall be done by the assured, the rule requires
the affidavit and. certificate in--question; and adds, that
"dntil such affi4avit.and certificate are produced, the los
claimed shall not bQopayable. '" The affidavit and certificate
must preeede'the payment, but need not 'precede the con-:
sideration of the claim.

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

The testimony of the secretary, if not conclusive on this
point, is, we think, entitled togreat weight. He states the
Fnvariable Usage of the office to have been, to consider the
merits of the claim before looking into the preliminary proof,
which, after deciding favourably on the claim, was always
referred to him for examination and report. In this case the
decision having been unfavotirable to the claimant, no reference was made to him.
We do not think the assured can be presumed ignorant
of the standing usage of the office, to which he applied for
insurance; or be admitted to found upon that ignorance a
claim to-exemption from the necessity of producing a document required by the policy, as.indispensable to his demand
of payment for his loss.
. We think the case exhibits no evidence of waiver; no.evt-•
dence fromwhich the jury could infer it, and consequently
that this instruction '6f the court is erroneous.
It would have been subject ofmuch regret, had the.merits
of the case been clearly in-:fav.ur.of the defendants in-et-ror,to reverse the judgment of the circuit court on account of
the non-production of a document, which may perhaps be so
readily supplied. But the cause must go back on the opinion
expressed by the circuit court to the jury, that the title
proved at the trial agrees with that stated in the offer for
insurance.
After the opinions which have been stated had been de-"
livered to the jury, the defendants offered evidence t6"rove
the insolvency of the plaintiffs, so as to disable them from
obtaining a legal titl ; and additional embarrassments on the
property; and again monied the court to instruct the jury,
that'the assured had not suQh an'°inteiest in the property as
entitled them or either'of them to recover. This instruction
the court refused -io, give, being still of opinion that the
assured held an insurable interest in the mill. An exception
was taken to this opinion.
The additional incumbrimces to the iitle,-and the circumstances -of Lawrence & Poindexter, might constitute additional objections to the representation 'contained in the offer

JANUARY.TERM 182U.
[Columnbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

for assurance; but do not, we t&nk, -disprove an insurable
interest in those who were still in possession of the property,
and claimed title to it under executory contracts.
The defendants in the circuit court then proved that the •
mill was a square building built of stone to the eaves, that
the roof was framed and covered entirely of wood, and that
the two gable ends running up perpendicularly from the
stone wall to the top .of the roof, were also.,constructed of
wood. They also-offered evidence to prove the general
understanding,'that the description of a stone house covered
with wood was not verified or sul)poricd by a house whose
gable ends were of wood; that the gable ends wdiec ulders ood to be a part of 'the wall, not of ile roof or covering.
They then moved thec-ourt to instruct the jury, that if two
of the exterior Walls terminated in upright gable ends; such
gable ends not properly forming, accofding to ordinary rules
anti terms of architectre,.. part of the covering or roof; it
was necessary in order to verify the said description, that
such gable.ends should have been of stone; and if,,b point
of fact, such gable ends as well as the coverifig or roof were
of wood, which under any circumstances of actual conflagration might have increased 6iiher the- risk of catching fire
or the difficulty of extinguishing it; it.amounted to a materia!
misrepresentation, and "avoids the policy; and it is not mate-.
rial whetherthe said misrepresentation was wilful and fraudulent, or from ignoiance and without design; nor whether that
actual loss was -produced by such misrepresentation, or by
having gable ends of wood initead of stone.
The court refused to give this instruction, being "of opinion that -it was competent tor the jury, from all the facts
giveri in evidence, to, decide whether,,in order to verify the
.said deleription in the said policy, it was necessary that the
whole of the eiterior walls from the foundation to the top
of the roof shouldbe of stone. .And being also of opinion
that under the first of the rules annexed to the said policy,
and referred to thereln ; no variation in the description of
the property insured, from the true description thereof, not
made fraudulently would vitiate the policy unless by reason,

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

of such variation the insurance was made at a lower premium
than would otherwise havebeen demanded."
To this opinion also an exception was taken. The rule
referred to in the opinion requires, that
"Persons desirous of making insurance on buildings should
state in writing the following particulars, to wit, of what
materials the walls and roof of each building are constructed," &c. "And if any person shall cause the same to be
described in the policy otherwise than as .they really are, so
as the same be charged at a lower premium than would
otherwise be demanded; such insurance shall be of no force."
If the court was correct in fhe construction of this rule,
and of its effect upon the poliay, it will become unnecessary
te examine their opinion, leaving the question whether the
property insured was truly described, entirely to the jury.
This rule takes up the subject of describing the property,
and provides for it.' It requires that the materials of which
the walls and roof are constructed shall be truly stated, and
prescribes the penalty for a mis:statement. The penalty is,
that the insurance. shall be void, if the assured shall cause
the building to, be "described in the policy otherwise than it
really is, so as the siame be charged at a lower premium than
wo7,d otherwise be demanded.
The rule does not place the invalidity of the policy on an"
untrue description of the building; but on such a description'
as shall reduce the premium which would otherwise have
been demanded. This was a. question- of fact which the
jury alone could decide.
'The rule having.provided for the case, and prescribed the
precise state of things in which the penalty shall be incurred, we do not think that it could be applied in any other
state of things.. The jury was of opinion that if the jbuilding was untruly described, still the misrepresentation was not
such as to cause the same 11to be charged at a lower premium than would otherwise have been demanded." If this
,verdict was against evidence, the refiiedy-was a new trial.
This court is of opinion that the circuit court erred in
instructing the jury that'the interest of the assured in the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Lawrence.]

property insured is such as is'described in the original offer
for insurance and iii.the policy; and also in the opinion
given to the jury-that the evidence was suffiqient to be left
to them, from which they miglit infer that the defendants.
waived the objections to the certificate and other prelimi-.
nary.proof required by ihe ninth rule annexed to the policy.
The judgment is to be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the circuit court that a venire facias de novo may be awarded.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for "the
district of Columbia, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion that the saidcircuit court Lried in this; in instructing the jury that the
interest of the assured in the property insured is such as is
described in the original offer for insurance and in the policy.
And also that the said circuit court erred in this;. in the
.opinion to the jury, that the evidence was sufficient -to
be left to them, from which.they might infer, that the defendarits waived the objections to the certificate and other preliminary proof required by the ninth rule annexed to 'the
policy. Whereupon, it is considered by this Court thht the
said judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be,' and
the same is hereby reversed and annulled, and that the said
cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court with directions to award a venire facias de novo,
and for further proceedings to be had therein according to
law and justice.

VOL. II.-H

