JANUARY TERM 1829.

TH

.REstE
'I'DrDECTORS AND COMPAIY -Or THE BAIm oF. THE
P
VmlED STA&TESw~. WLLIAx OwwEs,'HERBERT . G.-WAGGONEE,

GEORaGE W&GLEy Aim

ALExA&NDEi MxILLER..

The branch bank of the.United States, at Lexington, Kentuciry, Iiscounted a promnsory'note. reserving. interest thereon,-at the rate of six per centuna per annum ; Itbeing agreed that the owner'of the note, should receive the' proceeds
of the discotint in notes of the bank of Kintucky, at iheir jominal value, although the same-were at the tiine of no greater current value than fiftyfour per
cent. of the said nominal value. Held, that the contract was usurious,and void;
and that the bank could n6trecovr of- ay of the parties to the discounted
ndte.Afraid upon- statute i%a violation of the statute. [536]
A profit made, orloss imposed on the necessities ofthe bbrrower, whatever form,
sbape, or diiguise it may assume, where the tieaty is for Eloan, and the capital is to be Tqturned at all events,-bas always been adjudged tot be so much
'profit taken-upop a lii, and. to bez violation of those laws.which.limnit the
,qenrler to a specifie rate of interest. According to this priniple, the lend-- in
this case has taken forty-six per cent. for three.years, or at the rate of about
filt en per cent. per'annum above his prescribed interest." This'is'contrary to
'ihP provisions of the charter oStherbank of the United States, and against
-law., [637]
Reserving interest' as discount, is the sam6 as taking the same; since it can.not be perettid by Jaw -to stipulate for the receipt or reser'afion- of that
which' it is not pefatted to'receive. -In'tb6se instances in which' courts are
-called upon to inflict penalties upon- thelender, whether jn a civil or criminal
'form of action, it is necessarily otherwise; for there the actu i receipt is generally necessary to consummate the offence. - But wliere the restrictiie policy
.of a law aloneis ini cdntemplation, we hold it to be an universal rule, that it
.is unlawful tocontract to'do that which, itis unlawftil to do. [538]
The charter of the-bank of the United States forbids' the-taking of agreater rate
ofinterest than six per c'entum, but it'does not declare-a -contract on.whicl a
greater interest has been taken or reserved, to he void. -Stcli a- contract -is,
void up6n general principles. Courts of justice are instituted to carry-into:effectthe laws of a country, and they cinnot becomeauxiliary to the violation
'"ofthose laws Therecan-be no civil right where th'er cani be nb legal ieciedyk;:
.and there can he no legal iemedy'for that which is itself ill gal. - '[538]

THIS case came *up,on'a-eertificate of the judges of the
.6ircuit court for thedistrict of Kentucky'; theybbing opposed.

in opinion.
-The adtion was, upon a promissory note signed'by-the de-

fendants, bearing clate 'the .7th.of February 1822, by'which
they promised to pay. to the president., directors and .com-

'SUPREME COURT.
-[Bank of the Unifed States vs. Owens and others.]

pany of thie bank of 'the United States or order, on the, 71h
of February 1825, five thousand dollars with interest at the
rate of six per centum per annum, from the. date.
Th6 following indorsement is~on the note:
1"Mem.' Interest- is to be charged on this note from the
21st day of May 1822 only, and not from the 7thof February
1822 withinmentioned, the former being'the day on which
ihe amount was actually received by the makers of this note.
(Signed) JI.' CLAY.
The declaration being in the usual form, :the detendants,
.Waggoner, Wagley and Millbr pleaded. as follows:.
"That they, ought not to 'be charged-'withth:said debt
by virtue of the- said supposed, note "or.writing, becaU.ie-they.
say, that'they executed the said note at the instance sand.'for
ihe accommodation of the said' Owens, and witi-the view of
making him to obtain a. loan of the-money, from the' bakdf '
the. United States, upon the discoilntihg -of said note ; and
defendants alleged that afterwards, to wit, at, &c."the. said
Owens presented the said note for-discouht to the presidefit
and directors of, the office of .discount-and. deposit of.the
bank of the United Siates at Lexington, Kentucky- and'that
the president and directors of the said office, thenaand-.there
failed 'to discount 'the said note or make Any loan thereon;
and that.after the rejection -of the said -note as aforesaid
at Lexingtoh in* Kentucky, to wit,' on the 31st day' of May
- 1112% jt was unlawfully usuriously and corruptly agreja- by
and betweeno:the said plaintiffs,, by their agentg, managers.
and servats employed in 'thie maqagement'and business of
said office, "and the saidOwens, that they thi said"'plaintiffs
- Would reeeivd a0d'discount:said note, .and that'the said.Oi ezis!
should receive fibm them'therefor,notes of the bank of Ken'ieky or its branches'at.the nominal value of.said'notes, and
for 'the forbearance and lo'an"aforesai'd,'that said Owens
current inoniey'of ie'United States
would pay, said note invhen it fell.diue, with interest at the ri'te of six per-cent. per
-annum from' the '7th'. day, of February 1822i;and they aver,
that Tn pursuance of said.'corrupt and. unlawfulag-reement.
the said"note-Was deli"ered I the said-plaintifts-'at their said'
LexingtRn office upon the"terms aforesaid,, thiy advancing

JANUARY TERM. 1829.
L.Bank of the United States vs. Owens and others.]

and loaning th'erefoi, as the whole and sole consideration of
said note (aftet deducting a large sum'from the amount of
in-notes
said note for discount) to wit, 'the sum of S$
of iaid bank of Kentucky, counted and rated at their nominal value. And said 'defendants .aver, that at the time said
note was discounted as aforesaid, the notes of said bank of
Kentucky gnd its branches were generally, depreciated, so
much so that one hundred dollars thereof nominally were
of the value of fifty-fqur dollars only or less, and, current
only at that depreciation for greater or smaller sums, to wit,
at, &c. And the said defendants aver that said transaction
and dealing was contrary to law and the fundamental articles of said corporation, and the said note founded upon a
corrupt and usurious congideration, the said plaintiffs reserving a greater interest than at the r&te of six per cent. per
annum upon the value of the notes loaned by them as aforesaid, and this they are ready to verify. Wherefore, &c."
To this plea, the plaintiffs by their attorney demurred(a).
(a) The demurrer entered in this-case, prevented that investigation of the facts
attending the transaction, which was the subject of the suit; and bk which the
plaintiff would have been enabled to present the circumstances' under which
the loan was made to the drawer of the hote, so as to ful!y vindicate the institution from any charge of intentional violation of the provisions of the gharter of
the Bank of the United States, or the general rules of law. The following authentic and explanatory" statement has been furnished to the riporter:
The note in this case isjoint and several, and was not offered, as the plea
suggests, for a loan in tht ordinary course of discount, in United.States bank notes,
was at that time
or specie'. (it being generally known that the Lexington office
restrained from making such loans) but specially for notes of the bank of Kentucky. These notes had been received by the. bank of the United States, at
their office at-Lexington, at their nominal specie value, a part of-them being for
government deposits; they had always preserved that value to the' bank, by the'
balance being liquidated, and interest being paid by the bank of Kentucky perlo.'
dically, ai~d by the actual payment in specie, within a few (six) months after the
loan to Owens, of the balance due. The banlk therefore would have redeive'din
specie from the bank of Kentucky,'the amount.,loaned Jo bwens with its interest,
'in addition to the sum actually paid, had the loan not'bein made to him. The
public exhibits of'the bank of Kdntucky, at the time of the loan, and before and
since, have shown its entire ultimate ability to pay its' notes and deposits in specie; and individuals have, in a great number of instances , received from that bank
by cor6promise on time, or by assignments of its discounted notes, or by recovery
on suit, the nominal amount of their notes and deposits in specie. 'The great issue
of commonwealth bank notes at the period referred to, and- their free reception
debtsfiad, hqwever, the effect of givby the bank of Kentucky in payment of iti

VOL. II.-3R

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Owens and others.]

Upon the argument of the demurrer, the following questions arose, niamely:
1. thether the facts set forth, .and the averments in said
plea, make out a case in which the corporation has takeri
more than at the rate of six per 'cent. per annum, upon a
loan or discount, contrary to, and in violation of the 9th rule
of the fundamental articles of the constiiution of the corporation q
2.. If'the, plea'does make out such a case, vhether the
nbtes sued on, or .the contract- therein" expressed'to pay. to
the plaintiffs five thousand dollars, is void in law, so that no
recovery can be had thereon in this suit 9
.3. If not wholly void, whether the plea is sufficient to-bar
the plaintiffs' recovery ofany, and if of any, of what part of
the said sum of five thousand dollarsq.
The jtldges bei'ng opposed in opinion upon the questions,
they were, upon the -tequest of the plaintiffs by their coun§el, certified to the Supreme Court of the'United States.
Mr Sergeant, for the plaintiffs.
1.Upon the first question, after. referring to the 9th
rule(a), he proceeded 'to say, that the case presentea by the
plea was not wifhin the words'of the rule. Theprohibition.
is against taking more than'six per cent. The'utmost that'
can be-made -out of the allegations of the -&ea, stpposing
the. construction attempted, to be put upon ,the transaction
to be"correct, is, that there was an. agreement to -take more.
.than at .the rate prescribed. Nothing was taken but the
note, Thbr e is noprphibition - against an agreement to take
more tban'six- per gent, -The offence is in taking more,
and nothing' else. Penal proisions in a statuteoare to be
cons'rued -strictly.. "Thi ishighly penal, for it. is made a
iqg to tbb notes of the bank of "Kentucky nearly the sane" nominaldepreciate&
char'aeteras those of the bank.of the commonweilth.'
(a) " The said corporation shAalf'noti'dirlectly or indirectly, deal or trade in any
thing except 'bills of .exchange, gold or qilver bullion, or In the sale of goods
really and truly.pledged for money lent and not redeemed in due time, br go'ds
which-shall be the proceeds of its lands. It shall not be at Jiberty to purchase
any' pdblic debt whatsoeyer, npr shall it takj more than at the rate of six. per
centum pir andum, for or upon its loans or discountb."

JANUARY TERM 3829.'

631

[Bank of the United States vs. Owens and others.]

violation of the char'ter, and exposes to the danger of forL
feiture.
Where a penalty is given for taking usurious interest; it.
is well settled, that the penalty cannot be redovered without

proving, an actual, taking of ihe usurious interest. Fisher
vs. Beasley, Dovg. 236; Madd6"ck vs. Hammett, 7 T. R.
180. Here no discount was deducted, as is most usiual in
banking operations. The inter.est was. not. payable iill thed
mattirty, of th'e note: It is clear, therefore, that there has
not been a taking of more than six per, cent. in. violation,'bf
the 9th rule.
2. This,qu6stion does not arise, unless-the" fir'st be.nale "
out affirmatively.' If there has been no iaking of more than
.six per cent.-in violation of the. 9th iule, (as" there clearly
"has.not,) .this question, being by its, sfttement -madd dependent'upon the first, is algo decided in the -negative.
-There is 'nothing in .the:act- to make the contract void.'
.TI':' penalty. is specified, -and.is of a different nature. - An
-additional "penalty cannot be imposed.
A mere prohibition to take'more, tl)pn- six per -cent. .does'
not okitslf avoid a contract agreeing to t.ke more. When
the agreement is avoided, it is always in consequence ofan
express provision by law to that effeeot.' Such is the law in
.England against usurious cofitracts, and in many of the
states.- Such is the 'law of Kentucky,. 'and this'qdiestion
'coul .,only hi.ve arisen from' the' application of that law to
th6 present.dase.
Not: do courts incline to. destroy' the contract. Even'
under th6se laws,,VWhicli avoid 'the contract for usurious
agreemeiti 'if chance.ry .get possessiontof the matter, by the
appliation. of 'the debtors it.'will 'compel him 'to pay the
debt and legal interest as a conditio.fi of relief.
* .But state legislation'has ho power over the; baik df the'
United States or its contracts. This his been decidedi and
ii obvious from -the riature'.of the case. The bank of' the
is'
United 8tates'is governed by the law of congess, and
subject to no other juri.diction. M'Cullough vs. The State of

Maryland, 4 Wl.at. 316 ; Osborfi as. The Bankof the TUnited

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Owens and others.]

States, 9 Wheat. 859; Wayman vs. Southard, 10 Wheat.
1 ; Bank of the United States vs. Halstead, 10 Wheat. 51.
The rule in the charter5 therefore, is the governing rule.
.That-even the taking of more than the legal interest does
not under the charter avoid the contract, has been already.
decided by thiis Court. Fieciner vs. Bank of the United
States, S Wheat. 355. "The taking of interest by the bank
beyond the sum authorized by the charter, would doubtless
be a violation of. the charter, for which a remedy might be
applied by the government; but as the act of congress does
not declare that it shall avoid the contract, it is not perceived how the original defendant could'avail himself of this
ground to defeat a recovery."
Still less. can the agreement to take.
-3. Admtting, for the argument's sake, that if the bank had
agreed to take more than by law it Was- authorized tp take,
the Court would not lend its aid to. recover the excess, the
question arises, whether this was an agreement fo take more
than six per cent. on" a loan or' discount.
. It was not so in terms, for the interest payable. was precisely six per cent. neither more nor less. It was not so in
extent. The object of the transaction was not to cover illegal interest. The real design was to dispose of the noted of
the Bank of Kentucky. It Was in substance a sale upon a
,credit of'three years,.and not a loan.
If the transaction be unimpeachable on this ground, can
it be questioned on. any other '. The plea seems to aim to
extricate the defendants fr6m knowledge of the negotiation.
But there are two particulars to be. observed in it. 1. ii
does not aver that the bank knew that the note was' given to
enable Owens to get a discount in 'the ordinary way. 2. It
does not aver that the defendants were ignorant of the negotiation for the Kentucky Bank notes. What is not denied.
in lleading, must be .considered as adiitted. There is an
admission, therefore, that the, bank did not know that the
.note was given for any patticular purpose (if.such. were the
fact), and that the defendants did know of the negotiation
for the bank notes. Upon this basis of knowledge and as-.
sent, the case is to be considered.

JANUARY TERM 1829..

533

[Bank of.the United States vs. Owens and others.]

Was there not then anadequate-consi'd6ration given!. It
was so agreed, voluntarily, without coercion, compulsion or
duresse; the parties.being able and-willing to contract, and
understanding the subject matter of ihe contract. The bank had a perfect right to fix the terms upon which it would part
with the. notes, and the defendants an equal, right to decidewhether they would accede to them. Both Were the.exclusive wasters of their own judgment in making he contract;
but-ttat, once made, and not in itself unlawful, becomes thb
law between them. No one has a -right to alter it. The
4onsideration. has pa-ssed; the c6ntract is executed ; and the
parties canno'now be. restored- to the -conditiofi they were
in at the time'.of.contracting.. Sales are made according to
;theviews of the -parties, understood by.eemselves and influenced by many circumstance§. Here, the', sale. was upon.a
-long credit, enhancing the risk to the seller, and increasing
the chances of the buyer. The notes might, and did apprercate during. the interval.
It is impossible now to adjust. the terms differently..Theie is no evidence -to furnish a rule. What were these
notes worth to the Bank of the United States-I . They were
notes for the tiyment of money, which the -Bank of Kentucky was bound- to pay, aind the payment of which, to tue'
,full am6unt, was coinpellable by process of law. Who can
say, that the *full amount might not have been. recovered '.
Again, what was the value to the buyer q He, -too, coUid
enforce the payment, and use the notes, for some purposes,
as equivalent.to money. -It does pot appear that he did iot
so use'them.. He -may have recovered the.full amount; 6r
passed them. oft in advantageous negotiation.
The case is not new. Bank paper, being a kind of currency, has been variously depreciated at drfferent periods,
and in-different parts of the United.'States; in some to the
:extent of more than twehty'per cent. Contracts made When
specie was "the'bisis of circulation were satisfied with depreciated bank paper. , Wasit ever heard, that he who chose
to take them in payment (and none could be compelled to
do so) could aftprwards recover 'the difference '. Contracts

SUPREME -COURT.
[Bank of the United States s Owens and others.)

were made in the time of.' depreciated currency, and executed since by payment with specie.. Was it ever underl
stood that the payee could claim a deduction, or recover
back any part of what ho'had paid '.
Bank paper too, *-hich, besides being a currency, was a
commodity, :.as the subject of purchase add' sale, for cash
and on credit, under all the modifications that affect, the
dealings in'any other article. Thiose who dealt in it were'
the judges, .as they are with respect to other commodities.
It was never thought that courts of justice, could* be required to revise and reform their bargains. This would be
an exercise of equity power, that wbuld end .in, any thing
but equity. It would be wholly without limit or guide.
The pleadings, howeve do.not admit of such a.def~nce
in part. The plea is entire atad goes to the whole,..- If bad
for a part, it is bad for'.the ivhole. They should have taken
ft'fence orily foi.'as' much as they contro~ert~d.1 Chitty,
5&23; 6 Cratnck,- 136.1
That such a transaction could not be considered .a cover
for usury, was quite evident.. An-increased rate of interest,
or profit for the use of the-money, was.no partof the object.*
There :is.no pretence of any such thing. If not, it is unobjectionable, even under the usury -laws. A bond, or note,
or other secufity, may'be purchased' at any discount,'without
"incurring the charge of usury. Musgrave vs. Gibbs,. 1 Dal.
"217; Wycoff vs., Loughed, 2 Dall 92. - "Cases more analogous'to the present, 'and involving -the very same sort; of negotiation, had been judicially decided upon principles decisive of this. Northaimpton Bank bs. Allen, 10 'Jass.Rep.
254,; Stuart vs.. Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank, 19 Jo4ns.
Rep. 496.
.The question whether the bank had a right to'make a sale
of riotes was not presented here. If it had been, he would
have cjted, as deciding it, Fleckner' vs. The Bank of the
United -States, 8 Wiheat.:.349. 351. The same toint,. he
would remark, had been'fttdly.diseissed-and decided in the,
court of-appeals in I4entucky, in the -case of the Bank of
the United States vs. Norton. The opinion would be found

JANUARY TERM 1829.
:[Bank of the United States vs. Owens-and others.]

at .lehgth in the-record of the case of the Bank of the UnitedStates. vs. Venable,, decided at the present term of this
Court.
No counsel appeared'for the appellees.
Mr Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the CQurt.
This suit is instituted for the recovery of a promissory note;
The plea is. filed by the three last named defendants, who
represent themselves as securities to Owens, and sets outin.
substance, that the note was created for the purpose of enabling Owens to obtain R loan of money from the plaintiff,
in. the brdinary'course of discount ;. that it was offered for
discount, and rejected, and after such rejection it goes on
to aver, that "it was unlawfully, usuriously, and corruptly
agfeed by and b'etween the said plaintiffs, by their ageAt
employed in the management and business of the said 9ffice.. •
and the'said OWens; that they the said plaintiffs w6uld- r&
ceive and discount the said note, and that. the said Owens.
should receive from them therefor, notes of the bank of Kei-.
* tucky, or its branches, at the nominal value of said-notes, and
for the forbearance and loan -aforesaid, that Owens shoild;
. pay said note in correct money of the' United States,- vhen.
,it fell'due, with interest at the rate bf six'per centum per
annum from,.&c.; the plea then avers, ;" that in pursuance.
of said corrupt and unlawfifulgreement,': this note .was
pasged to the plaintiffs, and Kentucky notes received in.lo4an
"as the sole consideration thereof,,? at their nominal -value.,_

and further, "tiat atthe time the said note was discounted,
as aforesaid, the notes of the said bank.6f Kentucky and
ifs. branches were ?generally. depreciated, .so much so, -that
one hundred dollars thereof, nominally, were of.the valuepf
fifty-four' dollars .only, or-less; and current only at that-depreciatiori 'fbr gre er or smaller sums," &c.; and'the defen-'
dants further'aver,- that the said transactioi and d6aling
" 46 contrary to law, and the 'fundamental-articles .of the saia
,oriporation ; and the said note, founded, upon a corrupt and
usuriQus consideration, the-said plaintiffs- reserving a greater.

536

SUYPREME -COUR.T.
'[Dank of the United States bs. Owebs and btlrs.j

- interest

thani at the rate of six per centum per annum, upon
the valu of the notes loaned by them, as aforesaid."
ITo this ple'a.theplaintiffs demurred, and thr6e points are
-made on which the court below eertity a difference of opinion
-to this Court.
'The 1st is, Whether the facts'set forth, and the averments
in.sgid'plea make out p case on-which"the corporatibn has"
taken more than at the rate of six'p'r ,centum -per, anznum,
upon. alon or discount, .contrary to, 'and in violation of the
ninth rule .of the fundamental articles.6f the constitutiono of
the dorporation..

The'proposition. here presented to the Court, has relation
altogether to 'the violati6n of the- ninth .fundamental xule of
the act bf incorp6rati6fi, and it:brings under consideration
the.sufficiency both of the facts and averment contained in
iheplea, to iiake.out a violation. of that article.
'I have, myself, entertained-very serious doubts of the sui
ciezey of the averments n the plea; for it is nPt a case of'a
directjreservation of a higher irterest.,than' the. law:allows,
since on. tfie face-'of the note,.dfily six* per cent. is'res'erved;o
but the facts are calculated to preseiti one of those cases in
which 'a device is res'oxted to, by' wh 'is reserved a higl~er
profit than the legal interest,, undera. mask thzovn over the
transaction; to wit,- by taking a note pay'able 'ing0 l.
fr.sil,
ever, for a loan ofdeprqiated'padper;. a retfrn, in- fact,in spe
cie,. for an qrticle of scarcely'halfthe value of specie; a Tban
of adulteraped .dollars, -for which a .note is taken, 'Payable
" lollar' for dollar,'in coin' of the'United States.
That the law, will not tolerate such trafisactions has-. 166ng
been settled, for ajfraud upon a statute ii a violation of the
stdtute.
But the .difficulty with me was this, that the plea neith6r
'av.ers an intention to efdde the statute, .nor a knowledge . o
th§&.OIaintiffs.of th actial depreciation 'of Kfiitu'cky money.
I am.content, bowever, to unite with the three of my brethren;
who make up the majority on this point, in holding the averments. to be sufficient; becafise, in a: considerabl.e-dearth of
authorities on. this .sibject, I find-it, decided in the case of
..Bolton'v8.Durhai-h, in- roke' R'ep rts, tio. Eiz. 64, that

JANUARY ThRM 1829.-5.

-537. -

[Bank of the United 9tates vs.- Owens and others.]

the. confessiori of the quo animo; implied in a demurter, will-

affect .a case with usury, when a very similar case,. in the
-same book, in. which the plaintiff bad traversed the plea,
was lft to the -jury, with a favourable- charge. Benningfield vs. Ashley, Croa. Dliz. 741.
In the present instance, the.
loan; the unconditional re-

turn of-the sum lent; the illegality, and even corruptiorr6f
the bargain; are all distinctly averred, and more" than once
reiterated. If the transaction was corrupt, and'in 'violation;
of the .fundamental laws of .the charter, as averred in the
plea, and admitted by the demurrer ;it coild only have l@en
upon the grQund of an intention to 6vadi the -.statute, and
with a knowledge of the reduced value-of the-Kentucky bills.
.And it is nt unnatural here .to -remark, that .the plea sets
out a refual io-make a -loan in:the ordinary couise, to wit,

'in gold af silver, or the plaintiffs'-own notes; and a-subsequent"
agreementto.make the loan, provided payment wodild be received in this depreciated- paper.- This state .of facts" presents an-.bvious .-afialogy. to the leading case of Lowe vs.
.Watldr,Douglas,736j .in which the negotiatioi.cummenced
for a loan of money, but terminated 'in 4 sale of goods,.oni
the re-sal of which, tbe -borrdwer, (as heiias: held to be,).
sustained a g'eat i 6 ss.
The couri charged the 'lender- wiih-ihat loss, as so.Xmuch
'exacted from-ttre necessities of the- borrbwor.
That part of the 9th section of the fundi.mental rules -of
the bank charter; which is here :drawn' in question, is e pressed- in: these words, '1-The bank, shhll not. be at -liberty
to. purchase any, public -debt whateier, nor shall it take
more- than at -the.rateof sipper centum p& annum, for or
upon its loans ar discounts.:
A:profit made,, or. loss iiposed on the necessities of the
botiawer,'wht'ever form, shape,. or.disguise it may assume
where the treaty is for a loan, and the. capital is to be returned at all events; has always, been adjudged to be'.so
.much profit taken uIon a' loan;, and to be a. violation of
those laws -which limit the- lender to a specifiedate of intde'std
According to this piinci le, the lender.-has 'hre taken
YoL. II.-S
-

-

538

,SUPRFME COURT
[Bank of the United States vs. Owens and bthers.J

forty-six per cent. for three years, or at the rate of about
fifteen per cent. pqr anium above. his prescribed interest.
So that in'this.poin.t the certifidcte of this Court must be in
the affirmative.
Some doubts have. bee, thrown out, whether, as. the
charter speaks only of-taking, it can apply to a case in
which, the' interesf has been only reserved, -not received,
But on that!pont thb' majority are Clearly 6f opinion, that
rese'ving must be implied in 'the word taking; since it can-*
not be permitted by law to stipulate -for the reservation of
that'which it is-not -permitted' to receive. 1 Hawk. -P'C.
620.. In .those instances in Which courts. are called upon
a-civil- or
to inflict a' penalty upon* the" lender,, whether in.
criminal form. of -action, it is necessarily otherwise ; for 'then'
th actual receipt is .generally fiecessary to consummate the
offence. But when the restrictive policy of a law alone is*in contemplittion, we' hold it to be an. universal rule,' that it
is.uilawful' to contrae to do that which it is unlawful to do.'
The second .uestion propounded to this Court is,." Whether if the plea does make out a ease of violation 6f a provision of ibe eharter the notes sued- on,. 6r the. contract
therein Ie'xpiessed,- is void id law so that. no recovery can
'be h'ad'therein in this suit.IThe question here'propounded has relation exclusively to
the legal 6ffect of 4 violation of the provision - 4 the ckarter4
on the subject of interest; anddoes not'bring in question the
operatiion ofthe stattite of usuryof Kentucky'upon the validity.
.ofthis contract. To:understand the gist of the question, it-is
necessary to-observe, that although the-act of incorporation
f'orbids the taking ofa greater intere~tiihan six per cent: .it
does not declare void any c6ntract reserving'a gre'ater sum'
than -is permitted. ' lMost, if not all the ,icts 'passed in England- and -iii the siates 'oh .the same subject, declare'stich'
contracts usuriois and void.
The question then is, wvhether such. contracts ate void in'
law, upon general principles.
The'answer would seem to be plain-and obvious, that no
oburt of justice -can in its nature be made the.handmaid of
iniquity.. Courts are .insthuted to carry into effect the laws

JANUARY- TERM 1829.
[Bank of the 'United States vs.'Owens and others.]

of a country, how can they then become auxi-liary to the cons'ummation ofvi nlations ot law I

To erniurnerate here all the instances and cases in which*
this'reasoning
has bedn practically applied, would be to incur the imputation of vain parade.
There-can be no civil right where there, can be no legal
remedy ; and there cn' be no. legal remedy for that which
is itself.illegal.
That this is true of contracts violating the laws of morality, is recognizdd in the familiar maxim, "ex turpi causa non
ortur actio;" as has been exemplified' in gome modern cases
of a house let for immoral purposes. (Cited and admitted in
I B. 4s P..340, and Esp. A' P. 13)
In the case of Atibert vs. Maze, 2 B. 4 P. 374, it is expressly affirmed that there is no distinetion as to vitiating
'the contract, between malum mn se, an.d malum pro bitumn
And that case is a strong one to-this point, since the'contract there arose collaterally out -of transactionis prohibitedby statute.
.So the same doctrine was maintained in equity upon a similar contract in the case of Watts vs. Brooks, 3 Fes. Juvn 612;
in'Which the court observes, '1There is nothing immoral-in
this -transaction, but it is against a prohibitory statute. I
doubt a little the. policy of the' a-t, but I cannot all'w. it
to be argued, that you can break a'law covertly. Th6'court
will not execute these contracts."So in the case pf Webb vs. Pritcnett, I B. 8f P 264,
where the action'wasr by a tavern keeper against a candi'date for provisions furnished ..to the voters-at anelection,
contrary to.the statite of William. Although- the statute
does not-declar the contract void, the Court declared it
void, and in this "Lxplicit language: "This a:ction is.apparently founded on-a contract to disobey the law." '"The
defence set up proves the principle of the contract."•" Then
how shalla*ia action be maintained in that which is a direct
iiolation of a public law. The contract is bottomed in malum fprohlibitm of a very -seriousnature in the opinion of'the
.legislature'; -how then can we enforce a contract to do that
very thing which is so much reprobated by theact." " This

649

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Owbns.and others.]

Court cannot give any assistance to the plaintiff consistently
with the principles which have governed the courts of justice
at all times. Persons who engage in such transactions must
not bring their cases, before a court of law, &c."
So in the case of assurance in illegal voyages, even where
the -underwriters have contracted with their eyes open, they
ire notwithstanding permitted to avail themselves of,:the
plea of illegality. ad libitu m ;, as in the -cases of Camden, vs.
Andersoh, 6,T.R. 793 adjudged in the king's bench and
affirmed in the exchequer; where it is declared that. "the
defence is fouladedupon a.principle of law which is perma.nent to all obligation, by -which the parties to a contract can
bi-d themselves. I B. 8f P. 272.
And so in another case -of great hardship, Morck vs.Abel,
3B... P. 35, where the insurance was. upon a trading in
,the East Indies prohibited by an obsolete statute, the plain- tiff could not'even recover back his premium, -although admitted that. the risk never commenced because the policy
was void in its inception, on the ground of illegality.
' - Nor is it to voyages illegal by statute alone,-that this principle applies. A respectable writer -on ins urance makes
these remarks.' "Whenever an insurance -is made on a
voyage expressly prohibited by the common, statute, or
maritime law of the country, the policy is of no effect. The
principle on which such a regulation is founded, is not peculiar to this kind of contracts, for it is nothing more than
that which destroys all contracts whatsoever,- Park,232, that
men can Iiever be presumed t9 mak~e an agreement forbidden
by the laws;. and if they should attempt it, it is. ionalid and
will not receive -the assistance of a'court of justice to catry
it into execution.
Nor is the rule applicable only tb contracts expressly forbidden; for -it is extended .tsuch as are calculated to affect
the general interest and policy of the country.
Thus a note givea by a bankrupt upon a. secret compromise with a creditor, is decla'red void ; as it produces ine-.
quality in the distribution -of the bankrupt's' effects, and
evad .-the provisions .and policy of the'law,. Which-propoies

JANUARY'TERM 1S29

541

EBank of Ihe Unitid States-vs. Owens ind others.]

to.put all the creditors. upon :an equal footing.

Wells vs.

Girling; ..Brod. 8 Bing.. 447."
And-on the same principle a note givezi for a wager on'
the.future amount of a 'branaehof the..ublicvemtio is de.elared void -:because it interests an individual in diminishing
the production, of the revenue, 2 T. R. 610. 2 B. 8t P:
130.
After citing these more modern decisions upon this sub-ject, it may'not be amiss to refer to some reporters, whose
autuority nas oeen" c6nsecrated by the*respect of ages.
They will serve- to sh6w Oe 'antiquity and universality of
this doctrine.
is laid down "that wherever the
Thus in-1o-Bulls. 38, -it
the ground. of the promise, or the
'consideration which is.
promise which is the consequence or effect of the consideration be-unlawful, the whole contract'is void.
-So in Hobart, 72, and Dyer, 356, "'if one promises to
do a thing that is unlawfuli sugh promise is void."
And innumerable ancient cases might be cited from the
best reporters,*of the 'application of the rule to mhirtenance,
to simony, and'to promises made to-public officers, engaging
them to act contrary to the duties of their, offices, or .tg individuals imposing upon them restraint inconsistent with the
public interest.
For these reasons, and upon these decisions, ihe majority.
of the Court are of opinion that an'affirmatife answer must
'also be certified upon th6'"second question Jn the cause.
Andthis renders. it unnecessary to consider the thitd ques-'
tion.

-

•This cause came on to be'heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of th'-United States, for the
district of Kentucky, and on the 'questions and points bnwhich-the judges of the said circuit court were opposed in
opinion, and which were certified to this Court for its opinion,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
-the opinion of this Court,- 1. That the facts set forth, and the
avermdnts in said plea, make out a case in which the corpo-

542

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the UnitedStates-v&. Owens and others.]

ration has taken more than at the rate .of six per centum per
amium upon a loan or discount contrary to and in violation
-ofthe ninth rule of the fundamental- articles of the constitu.don of"the corporation. 2. That the plea does make out
such a case where the notes sued on, or the contract therein
expressed to. pay the plaintiffs five thousand dollars is void
in law, so that no recovery can be had thereon in.this suit.
And 3. This Court being of opinion in the afflirmative on the
first and.second points, renders it unnecessary to consider the
third question; all of which is ordered and adjudged to be
.certified to the said.circuit court.

