SUPREME COURT.

nr Emoit va. THE LmSrE
THE BANK OF HAULTON, PLAir'Nrr
or'A=InosE DuDw4s' Jvzq., DDVX-AT.
Proceedings for the sale of the real estate of an infestate, for the payment of
debts, were commenced.before the repeal of the act of the legislature of Ohio,
entitled "Aaw for the settlement ofintestates' estates." The administrators,
notwithstanding the repeal, went on to sell the land, and appropriate the proceeds to the discharge of the debts of the intestate. Held, that the sale was
void..
The power of the inferior court ofa state to make an order at one term as of another, is of a character so peculiarly-local, a proceeding so necessarily dependent on the judgment of the revising tribunal, that the judgment of the same
is consideied,auihority, and this Court is disposed to conform to it. [522]
That a court of record, whose proceedings are to be proved by the record alone,
should, at-a subsequent term, determine that.an order was made at a previous
term, of which no trace could be found on its records, and that too, after the
repeal of the lAw which gave authority to make such an order; is a proceeding
of somuch delicacy and danger, which is liable to so much abuse, that some
of the Court questioil the existence of the power. [522]
Where administrators, acting under the provisions of an act ofassembly ofthe state
of Ohio, were ordered by the court, vested by the law with the power to
grant such order, to sell real estate, and before the sale was made the law'was
repealed, the powers of the administrators to sell, terminated with the repeal
of the law. [5231
The lands of an intestate descend not to the administrator, but to the heir; they
vest in him, liable. to the debts of his ancestor, and subject to .besold for those
debts. -The administrator has no estate in the land, but a powier to sell under
the authority of the court of common pleas. This is not an indepeadeof power,
to be exercised at dtscretion, when the exigency in his opinion may require it;
but it isconferred by the court, in a state of things prescribed by the law.
The order of thb court is a pre-requisite, indispensable.to the very existence of
the power ; and if the law which authorises the court to make the order, be
repealed, the power to sell can never come into existence. The repeal of such
a law divests no vested estate, but it is the exercise of a.legislative power,
which every legislature pos~essbs. The mode of subjecting the property of a
debtor to the demands of a creditor, must always depend on the wisdom ofthe
legislature. [523]
The judicial department of every govemmentis the rightful expositor of its laws,
and emphatically of is supreme law. If in a case depending before any court
a legislative act shall conflictwith the constitution, it is admittedc thaf the
court must exereise its judgment on both, and that the constitution must control the act. The court must determine whether a repugnancy does, or does
not exist, and in making this determination must construe both instruments.
That its construction of the one is authority, while its construction of the other
is to be disregarded, is a proposition for which this Court can perceive no reason. [524]

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lessee.1
This Court can perceive no sufficient grounds for declaring that the logislawe of
Ohio might -not repeal the :law of ,that state .by which the court of common.
pleas was anthorised io direct, in a summary way, the sale of the lands of an
intestate. "1Jurisdictionofall probate and testamentary matters" may be corn-.
pletely exercised without possessing the power to order the sale of the lands
of an intestate. Such jurisdiction does not appear to be identical with that
power, or to cbmprehend it. [524]
The occupant claimant law of Ohio, which declares that an occupying claimant
shall not be turned out of possession, until he shall be paid for lasting and
valuable improvements made byhim, and directs the court in a suit at law, to appoint commissioners to value the same ; is repugnant to the seventh amendment
of the constitution of the United states, which declares that "in suits at com-'
non law, where the value in controversy shall -exceed twenty dollars, the
righj pf trial by jury shall be preserved." Thd compensation for improvements.is a suit at common law, and must be submitted to a jury. [525]
Admitting that the legislature of.Ohio can give an occupant claimant a right to
the value of his improvements, and authorise him to retain possession of*the
land he has improved, until he shall have received that ,alue ; and- assuming
that they may annex conditions to the change of possession, which, io far as
they are constitutional, must be respected in all courts; still, the legislature
cannot change radically the mode of proceeding piscrlbed for the courts of the
United States, ordirect those courts in a trial at common law, to appoint corn-.
missioners for the detision of questions which a court of common law must
submit to a jury. [526]
The inability of the courts of the United Stales to proceed in suits at commonlawi
in the mode prescribed by the occuiant law of Ohio, does not deprive the occupant of the benefit.intended him. The modes of proceeding which belong
to courts of chancery, are adapted to the execution of the law ; and to the
equity side of the court he may .apply foi relief. Sitting in chancery it
can. appoint commissioners to estimate improvements, as well as rents and
profits, and can enjoin the execution of the judgment at law, until its decree
shall be complied with. If apy part of the act be unconstitutional, the proylsions of that part may be disregarded; while full effect will be given to iuch
as are ziot repugnant to the cobstitution of.the state,-or the ordinance of 1787.
The question whether any of it provisions be of this description, will properly
arise in the suit brought to carry them into effect. [528]

THIS is a'writ-of error to a judgment rendered in th-"
court of the United States-for the seventh circuit and district'of Ohio; in an ejectmentbrought.in that court by.the
defendants in erroy, against the present plaintiffs for part.of
lot No.. 103, in the city-of Cincinnati.
The plaintiff is' heir at law of Israel Ludlow, wh6 diedseised of the premises in the declaration mentioned. The
defendart claimed under a sale and deed ti.ade by ,the
administrator of the said Israel Ludlow, in pursuance ofcertain orders of the court of common pleas for the county of
Hamilton.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lensee.]

The case depends on the validity of this deed.
In August 1788, the territoril government' oF Ohio inacted,-", a law establishing, a court of probate." The first
section enacts that "there s hall. be -appGinted one judge of
* probate in each county whose duty.it shall be to take the
probate of last wills and testaments, and to grant letters iestamentary and letters of administration, and to 'do and perform every matter and thing that doth or by laiv may apper* tain to the probate office, excepting the rendering definitive
sentence and final -decrees.
In 795; an orphans' court was established, and it. was
enacted that where persons die, intestate and leave lawful"
issue, ,,but.not h sufficient personal estate to pay their just
debts and maintain their children, it shall be' lawful for the
administrator.or administrators of such deceased person to
sell and convey such part or parts 6f the said lands or tenements 'or defraying their just debts, maintenance of their
children, &c. as the orphans' court of the. county-where
such estate lies, shall* think fit to allow, order and direct
from time to time."
In the year 1802, Oito became. an independent state.
The constitution, -in the article which, respects the judicial
department, declares that "the court of comfbon pleas in
each county shall have jurisdiction of all probate and testamentary matters, granting .administration, the appointment
of guardians, and shch other cases as shall be prescribed by
law." In April, 180",, the judicial courts were organized;
and the court of common pleas, after a genieral grant of original jurisdiction, was empowered to examine an4 take the
proof of wills, to grant administration on intestate estates, and
to hear and determine all causes, suits, and controversies of
a probate and testamentary nature.
In June 1805, the territorial ordinance of 1795.was-repealed.
At the trial of the eje6tment in the circuit court, after the
plaintiff had closed his evidence, the defendants offeted in
evidence a deed from the administrators of Israel ludlow
deceased, to Andrew Dunseth, for the premises in the declaration 'mentioned. ' They also offered in. evidence duly

JANUARY TERM -1"9.

495

[Bank of Hamiltgn vs. Dudley's lemee;1

certified'entries and copies- of orders-from the rerords of'the
court of common pleas within' and -for the county of Hamilton state of Ohio, bf which the.following are irue copies, viz.
'2dofFebruay 1804 :.Letters of administration granted unto
Charlotte C. Ludlow,,John Ludlow, James Findlqy. and
James Pierson, on the estate of Israel Ludlow deceased, and
.their bond with William iudlow and James Smith as securities for their faithful administration.'" At May term in tke
year 1804, date 8th of-May 1804,. the -following order waa
_made,*viz. "The administrators of the estate of Israel Ludlow deceased exhibit an account current and-pray the courtto
issue an order for the sale of real property to defray. the debts
due from the estate, 4&c. .John Ludlbw and James Findlay
swom in court. The Court order so much of the real property to be sold as will meet the said demand, except the
farm and improved land- hear :Cincinnati together with, the
house and lots in Cincinnati". At the August term of the
'said court in the year 1805, a supplemental order was made
of which the following was a copy, viz. "The administrators
of 1. Ludlow deceased, 9n application to the court to extend
the Qrder for the sale of property to discharge .the 'debts.
arising from .the estate: whereupon the .court allow the administrators to sell the house and lots in the town of Cincinnati-and'any other property, except the mansi'on house and
farm in the country s, that the sale do not amount to more
than ten' thousand dollars. This entry considered as of Miy
term 1805."

-

It was in evidence that the sale was made agreeably to the
provisions-of the law adopted from the Pennsylvania code by
-the governor and judges of the north western territory on the
16th of June 1795, entitled" a law for the settlement of intestate estates ;" that the deed-was duly executed, acknowledged and proved.
The plaintiff by his counsel nioved to overrule the testimony
offered by the defendants' counsel, becaqse the law aforesaid,
entitled "a law for the settlement of intestate estates," was repeale4 before the order was made authorizing said sale, and
that at the time oftmaking ofthe said orderethere'was no law of
-the state of Ohio authorizing the court of common pleas to

496

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hainilton vs. Dudley's lessee.]

-order the sale-of real estate for the payment of debts, &c.
.of intestates. The court sustained the. motion and overruled the defendants' evidence. The defendants excepted
to this opinion..
. The jury found a verdict for the.plaintiff; after which the
counsel for the defendants moved the court for the appointment of commissioners, under the occupyihg claimant law of
Ohio, to value itnprovements. This motion was overruled,
and judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs.
The-case was argued for the plaintiff in error by Mr Benham and Mr Baldwin; and by Mr Garrard for the defendant.
For the plaintiff it w'as' said, that the defendant in error
claims by descent, as heir at law of Israel Ludlow, deceased, who died seised of the premises in question; and
the plaintiff claims by purchase from his administrator.
. The case is oiie of deep interest to the preuent litigants, as
well as to all those who hold real estate in Ohio under deeds
from administrators, and this class is numerous. Its decision
depends upon old statutes which it is proposed to collate,
in such a manner as to aid the judgment of the court in expounding them.in reference to this case.
These statutes will be found between the periods of 1788
and 1805, and to relate, 1. To the establishment of probate
and testamentary courts under the territorial government.
2. Their powers and jurisdiction. 3; The ab6lition of these
courts upon passing from a territorial into a state government. And 4. The organization of. new courts of similar
jurisdiction, -nd the. modification and repeal of laws relating
.td testamentary matters.
The facts of the case in reference to which the Court, must
expound. these laws are as follows: Ludlov died the 21st of
January 1804. On the 2d of February of that year, administratiofi was grqnted upon his estate to John Ludlow and
others, who gave bond with sureties, as the law required, for
the faithful execution of' their tiust. On the 10th of May
1804,'the following proceedings were 'had in the, court of
common pleas of Hamilton county, viz. "The administrators of J. Ludlow deceised exhibit an account current, and

JANUARY TFRM 1829.

497

[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lessee.]

pray ihe court to issue an order for the sale of real property
to defray .the debts dire from the estate, &c. John Ludlow
and James Findlay, -swornin court. The court order-so muchof the real property sold as -will meet the said demands, except the farm and improved lands near Cincinnati, together
with the house and lots in Cincinnati." On the "-15th of
August 1805, the court made another order as follows 1 "The
adminisirators of J. Ludlow deceased, on application to the
court to extend the order 'for sale of property to discharge
.the -debts owing from the estate: whereupon the" court allow the administrators to sell the house and lots in the town
of Cincinnati and any other property except the mansion
house and farm in the country, so that the sales do not amount
to more .than ten thousand dollars-this entry consideredas
of'May term 1805." .Thd administrators, under the above
orders or decrees, sold the lot in dispute and made a deed
therefor to Andrew Dunseth, under -whom the 'plaintiff in
errbr- claims, which orders and deeds were offered in evidence in the'circuit court and overruled. -Whether this evidence were admissible or not, will depend, upon the solution of the following propositions:
1. Had the court of common pleas .jtrisdiction of the subject matter! 2. Was it competent for that'court,' upon the
application of administratorsi to condemin'the real.estate of
intestates to be sold for the pa'yment of their debts, &e.
3, Did the sale and deed of the administrators of the lot in
question, pass the legal title to their vendeeq
By the law of the territory, adopted by the. governor and
judges in 1788, and confirmed in 1799, Ohio Laws, 378-9,
a qualified jurisdiction- over 'probate and testamentary mat-ters was confided to a judge of probate' in each county.
This judge had power to grant letters testamentary and of
administration, receive guardians chosen by, and appoint
'guardians for minors, idiots and insane persons: but he had
no power to compel executors, adninistiators, or guardians *to execute faithfully their duties. And for this purpose, in
1795, an orphans' court was instituted, with supervisory jurisdiction, 'to call trustees to account, and'to review thlejudicial
proceedings of the judges of probate. .Maxwell's Code, 81.
VOL. II.-3 N

SUPREM E COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton.vs. DufHev's.essee.]

At the time the orphans' court was established, in June 1795,
a law was adopted from -the Pennsylvania code "for the
settlement of intestatfis' estates," MIaxwell's Code, 90. This
statute prescribes the forth of admin'istrators' bonds, directs
the dis{ribution of the personal estate under the superintend.ence of the orphans' court; and pro.' ides (section 7), upon a
deficit.of personalty.to pay the debts of intestates and maintain and educate the children, &c. for the sale of the lands
and tenements for these purposes by the a~dministrator; in
such mannei~as the orphans' court " shall allow, order and
direct, from time to time."
In May 1798 another act was adopted, which contained a
general provision for ther sale and distribution of insolvents'
estates, which was repealed by an act passed January 1802
on the sameisubject. Ohio Land Laws, 383. Coeval with
the last mentioned act, a law was p4ssed for the appointment
of guardians to lunatics, &c." wbich provides for the sale of'
their refil estates, in the same marnner that--administrdtors
are"authorised to sell the real astates of .their.iUltestates.
Terr. Law. 120. Thus stood the. laws relative to 'courts probate and testamentary, tnd the atiportionment of jurisdIction
among them, and relative to the' sale and distribution of the*
estates of intestates,.minors, idiots, &c. up to the adoption
of the~state constitution in.1802. In this political transit frpl
a territorial to a,. state govemment.'the courts -above mentioned were abolished, and new courts institu'ted with plenary probate a'nd testamentary jurisdiction.
But th" aboliti6n o'-the testamentary.co'urts of the territbry, did not abrogat6 the laves above cited, relative to- the
.sale of intestates' estates for the payment of debts, &c.; the
act adopted from. the Pennsylvania code in 1795 remained
in full force., What court under the state government was
charged with its execution, will now be considered.
By-the constitution of Ohio, the judicial power of the state
is vested in a supreme court, courts of comm6n pleas, and
justices of the peace. The common pleas is invested with
.jurisdiction of all probate and testamentary matters, granting
of administration; &c .'(art. 3, sec. 2) and such other cases
as shall be piescribed by law. It also provides that all ac-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Duflcy's lessee.]

tions, suits, prosecutions, rights, cjaims and-contracts, shall
continue as though no change had been made in the organic
law. Sched. section 1st.
It is maintained to be clear, that by the words "all probate- and testamentary matters," was meant all the duties of.
executors and administrators and all matters arising out of
the settlement of the estates of deceddnts. The- common
pleas -was the only court, under the new form of government, thas possessed original jurlsdictioih over the estates of
iatestates; and it could not have been the intention~to leawthe law of 1795 in force without a court to execute it:
Again, it will be seen that the constitution provides tart..3,
see. 5) that the common ,pleas- shall have jtrritdiction "i n
such other cases as shall be prescribed by ltw" - Now
,by the s.tute of April 15, 1803, u.nlirfiited jurisdiction isgiveneto the common pleas in,all civil cases in law and
equity, Aid alb causes,,suits and controversies of a rrobate
or testamentarynature." 01io Laws,'40. And-the 26th section 4if thit act- zquires the supreme court and common
pleas to take cognizance of all judgments, matters and causes
whatsoever, pending in t6e territorial courts.'- For the sense
in -which the words "courts .of probate" were -used, see
the law. abolishing terxitorial courts, -3 Ohio Laws, 188.
The legislature has throughout. used th" words "probate
itnd testamentary"' in a pQpular, and not in a restrained -and
technical sense.
2. If the common pleas had jurisdiction of the .subject
either as, a. court of general chancery powers, or..a:-cdurt of
probate, did the orders granted, confer the 'right upon the
"administrators to sell this lot-! The order of May term 1804
ektends -to all the real estate :" -.xcept the farm and improved
lands and house and lots in Cincinnati." It is asked-if this exception includes the unimproved lots:; -the lot in displite was unimproved and drnproduetive. But if this order did not
extend to the lots, the order of 1805 did; whether it be considered -as the order of May or August term. If it be a valid.
order of May term, it ends the controversy:6 and whether -it
ca.n'be so regarded or not, must depend upon th6 power of
the court- to grant it. We affirm the order was -made at

1500

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lesse'e.]

May teim, and, ey the mere misprision of the clerk, not recorded; to correct which, it was entered, nune pro tunc, at
August term. The cxercise of this power rests in the sound,
discretion of the court, and.is indispensable to prevent a
failure of justice. Amendments are always allowed where
the omission happens by the oversight or' neglect of any of
the ministers of justice, as an attorney, or clerk. 3 Johns.
Rep. 443. 144. 5 119.I Bin. 368. 486.
The power to correct cle.ical misprisions, is incidental to
every court of record. 1 Tidd's Proc. 438. 1 Durnf. 1f
East, 638. 2 Tidd. 846.
Judgments are entered under powers atdr the death of
Salk. B7. 3 Salk. 116. 3 P. Williams, 399.
the donor, (1,
6 Durnf.i' E. 368. 2 Strange,.882. 1081,) and also on verdicts of a prior term, Salk. 401.. The same rule obtains in
chancery, 4 Johns. Ch..Rep. 342. 9 Ve. 461. 92. . If an
executio.nbe lost or destroyed, a. second will be ordered,
nune pro tunc,,3 Johns. Rep. 443. In the case of Lawrence
Walker, 241, 'the chancellor, after
vs. Richards, I Jac.
the lapse of' more than twenty years, ordeied a decree filed.
nunc pro tunc., It may be said that this is a delicate power,
and should -beexercised with great circumspedtion. This is
true: but when a court of competent jurisdiction has exercised it, and the validity of the act is. drawn collaterally in
question in some other court, that court will presume .favourably-omnia" esse rite acta, 2 Bin. Rep. 256.
Now, if this order can be considered as of May term,, could
the administrators sell under it, after the Ia of 1795 was
repealed ?. For the argument, the law may be considered
repealed before the sale. The order was granted upon the
application of the administrators, ex parte, it is true, the"
law not requiring the heir to be-notified ; for the administrator is often the heir himself, or next of kin, or the particular
friend of the heir, who is presumed to be careful of'his rights.
The order is a proceeding in rem; it condemned 1he real
estate to be sold, and a sale made under it directs the title
,of the heir, and judgment liens.
This order confers more power upon the administrators
than a judgment or decree can give to the sheriff; and in

JANUARY. TERM 1829.

501

[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lessee.]

divesting liens, it is more efficacious than either. Why then
shall it be regarded a.s 'less sacred! Acts .done uftder an
existing law, are not impugned by its rep.eal, 6 Bac../lb. 392.
12. Co. 7, 3 Doll. 379.
It is not in the, power of either'the judiciary or legislature,
tq xender nugatory an existing judgment. 7 Johns.Rep. 485.
. 1If this older.can be regarded in the light of a mere power,
it would not affect the conclusion' to be drawn. A power
in a will to executors to sell real estate, to lay debts, is a
power coupled with aninterest, and survives. 2 Johns. Ch;
Rep, 1. 19. 12 Johns. Rep. 537. 14 Johns. Rep. 527.
This.Courtin'7 Wheat. 114, recognises as 4 lien the power
of the administrator to sell real -estate of intestates to pay
debts, and limits its exercise within a reasonable time, which
is to be fixed by'anflogy to the statute of limitations.
A:gain, if this order cannot be-retarded upon either-legal
•or equitable principles as of May term, it is urged, that as
a decree of August'term it authorised the sale, whether it
did or not.depend upon the power of the court to.grant it
at that time; and this proposition involves several niceand
difficult considerations, upon which the counsel for the defendant in error will place much emphasis. He' wiIl contend
that the court had no power to maf&d the-order,independent
ofthe act of 1795, and that this act 'w" repealed before it
Was made. He will rely, to maintain this postulate, upon the
following statutes, viz. an act gassed the 18th of February
1S04, "defining the duties of executors and administrators
on will. and intestates' estates," which took effect in May
1804,, 2 Ohio Laws, 279; an "^act directing the manner
of:executing, proving, and recording wills and codicils ;" an
"act directing the distribution of insolvents' estates ;" and
an "act defining the duties. ofexecutors ind administrators,
on wills. and intestates' estates, and providirig for the appointment of guardians." 3 Ohio'Laws, 173. 182. 188.-.
. These. several acts, did they all conflict with the provii'ons
of the act-of 1795, ate in terms prospective; they refer to
future administrations,- and define the duties of executors
and administrators, in relation to the personal estate of those'
whio may die afterthey take effect. Neither of them con-

502

SUPREMF COURT
[fBank of H~milton vs. Dudley's lessee.1

4ins any. provision incnmpetible with the act of 1795; but
tfiey stand in perfect harmony with it, at least so much of it
as -proides for the disposition of the lands and, tenements of
intestates.
The act of the 18th of February 1804, repeals "all laws
contrary to its privisions,?' but contains no provision reh .
tive to lands. So -far from being-,repugnant;.it'rather contemplates the life of the act of'1795, as necessary to give
complete effect to its 6th section,:whiblh requires the administrator to account to the hdir, after paying the debts. The
act " directing the manner of executing,&c.,will8 and codicils," repeals ".all laws on that subjdct." Sec. 6. The att
".defining the duties of executors, -&c. on 'wills and, intestates' estates," repeals the law establishing the courts of
probate, of June 1795; the act "empowering the judges. of
probate to appoint gua'dians to minors,"-and "all other laws
on the subject of this law."' Here the laws intended to be
repealed are expressly designated, and the general clause
was added,. e abundante cautela, to'guard against collision:
A subsequent act must be expressly.repugnant to a formet,
or it does not operate as a repeal. 11 Co. 64. Agaih, the
learned counsel.will strenuously insist that the act of"19'5,
authorising administrators to sell the- lands, &c; of decedents, was expressly-repealed on the :lst'of June 1805,.by an
att repealing certain laws, passed the 22d of February. 1805.
This law purports to repel all the laws adopted or passed'
by-the governor and judges, prior to the first of September
1779, then in force. 3-OhiQ L. 294.. At he session this
law was enacted, the legislature uridertob a. revision of
the old statutes; -not with a view of forming a new code of
laws out of new materials, for the oouie of legislation shows
no intention to change the general principles of the laws;
but rather to preserve, arrange and classify them, with a
view to perspicuity and certainty. It was believed, no doubt,
that the committee bf revision had fully aiid faithfully performed this onerous and respofisible duty; and' that all the
elementary principles of the laws repealed, had been incorpora'tnd into the new code. Under, these circumstances, on
the -last day-of the sesion, to prevent confusion and repug-

5O3

JANUA.Y -TMRM '1829.
[Bank ofHamiton vs. Dudley'slessee.]

nancy, the general repealing law Was enacted.- This is a
question of legislative intention. In exploring-this intention,
in all cases of ambiguity, the judgment is submitted to the
guidance of certain familiar-rules of construction. We look
back upon the old law, and trace its effect upon communi,ty, with an eye.to its' mischievous influence.; -and we onsider well the remedy "orpolicy -9 f,the law given in the enactment of the new law.' Now, the liability of real estate
in the, hands of an administrator for the just debts-of.his-in'testate, is a sacred elementary principle to be -found'. in all
the co.des of the different states 6f thisunion, introduced
originally by-'an act of parliament, At an early.peri6d-of
theii colonial history; it ,was a relaxation, in favour of-he
colonies, of that feudal -sternness .which. characterises the
common Maw in relation, to landed .property; and -which, for
reasons of state -policy,-has beeff scrupulously Maintained in*
England; indeed, upon this principle and that 'of primog~ni'ture, depends the stability of the peerage. In the :United.
States,'land has a less sacred character .than in less. free
governments, and ha§ ever' been considered an article of'
trade ;-and it i6 the policy of our laws to discourage every
thing 'alculated to fetter.or'embarrass titles, or to lock tip
estates in*'families; such as entailments,.&c.
Upon the -hypothesis that this law was repaled,' what.
refnedy was left for creditors- against decesed debtors!. They
-were remediless ; 'chancery could afford none, and they had
none at common. law. 2.-Saund. Rep. 7, note -4. 0ruise
.Dfg. 'title 1, sec. 63. title.32,'sec. -'12-16.
Now suppose the partial remedies of'the. common law ex+
isted aftei te organizati6n of, the state government; which
is denied, bebaire they are incompatible with the -judgment
and' execution .laws then in force, and in express violation of
the act of' February 11, .1805.-f6r the. distribution of insolfeAts' estates; still-the simple contract creditors have no
remedy, and: thd 'pecialty,credit6rs are left to scramble for
priority; some one 'creditor, and often 'the least worthy, for'
such are apt.-io be miost vigilant, monopolizes the whole.
Again, whether the. ,legislature 'did intend.to repeal 'the
actoof 1795 must be determined. by considering as unique,'
'

SUPREME COURT.
(Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudleyg legsee].

all the laws in,
pri materia, whether 'Tepeald. or not..3
.Mas&, Rep.:21. 4:Kent's 00m; 443r,, 6 Rac. 380., a83.Applying thi&e rules of. expositon, it is submittedthfat
not only, ab inconvenienti, but from necessity, in 6rder to
give'-effect to the. act.of -the I itlh of February 1.805, which"
provides for an equal distribution. among all the creditsirs,
-ieh Court will'be.constr~ined. to say the-act of 1795 was not'
intended to -be.repealed.: .This idea is.
aso orified by-the
act of the 15th of January 1805, 3 Ohio-au's, 13,14orthe
".appointment of guardians t& lunatics" and others. It pro-,
•vides for the sale of their re jestate "i stuch mvnner.as
.ex-eutors or-administratorsare by law enabled to discharge
thI debts, of deceasedperson&."
;The plaintiff also relies upon the general understanding of
the :profession, that this law was. not-repealed.
5 dranch,
32. 1 -Dall. 131.. 11.43,

What was the effect df the saving clause.in the rep.maling
law; and whether the repeal of the law could operate on an
administration. pending q
1.. -Upon.general principles,- if the faw were epq'aled,.it
was prospectivly, and could -not affect the duties of. these
administrators, nor-their. rights, nor the rjghts of creditors.
The Maxim is, noiz.'
.4onituti.6-futurisfomqm-. debet .imr.
ponere, nooa prteritis. :Ludlow died, on the.-21 of June'
1804; and-administratioi was granted on ,his- state on the

18dnandaton

2d, of February f6llowing. The "administrator ha -dis4ursed all the 'person i'effects.in their,hanrds, ad.-had.filqd.
a, petition to sell. -the -real :estate, 'upon .Whick
-liuite.d
order had beengranted; which proceedings-wbere-pending
infieri, beformind at the time all the repealing statutes before named took effect.
By the laws in force when this- administration was- commenced, the real estate" of intestates were assets,. sub
-modo,-ip, the. hands .of the administrators 5..
and. by the. st
directing the distribution 6f.ixisolvent$' estates, the creditors
w.q pohibited.from przoecuiting their claims to judgment;
,y.
these-Jaws, the rights of the -adniiiistrators, creditbrs,-dis-

iributors, and heirs in said estatw were to-be ascertaified and
finally settled ; amd by these laws the administrators had

JANUARY 'I'ERM 1829.

505

[Bank of Hamilton'bs. Dudley's lessee.]

'made a partial settlement. The rights of the creditors, to
look to the real estate (rights paramount to the heirs) as
assets, had attached; had been recognized by the court, and
the administrators had instituted the only suit known to the
law to e'nforce them; the suit was ex parte, itis true, so are
admirlty, bankrupt and insolvent proceedings from necessity; they all act under the supervision and direction of the
court, at all times liable -to be called to account or subject
to be removed for'omission or neglect of duty. The administrator brings no adversary. into court, but must meetall
*who choose to come ;his proceedings are in rem, and must
be considered as entire and pending, until finished upon the
,basis they were begun. He had undertaken *a trust and
had entered' into a contract and had given security for.. its
faithful execution. By this contract, in reference to ihe laws
in force at the time of its date, the- duties of the administrator were fixed and the rights' of the creditors and' heirs were
to be ascertained. 2 Serg. 4 Rawle, 8. 2 Binn. 299.
If this be not true, it would be easy to point out the confusion and injustice of a contrary doctrine. Some creditors
have been paid, others have received part and others nothing.
And the administrator may have paid debts out of his own
pocket, as he had a right to do, looking to the real estate'to
be reimbursed, &c.
To show that the repeal of the law, even without a saving
clause, could not affect an administration commenced andpending, the following authorities were cited. Dash vs. Van
Kleek, 7 Johns. R. 485. 3 Dall. 397. 20 John. Rl 212.
17 Johns. R. 203. 3 Johns. Ca. 75. 16 Johns. R. 252
7 Johns. R.'309. 1 Kent's Comm. 419. ' Vide also ordinances of congress of 1787, articlq-2, made perpetual bythe act of 1802, section.5.
2. The repealing law however contains this saving clause,
"this act shall not be construed to affect in any manner anv
suit or prosecution pending and undetermined; but the
same shall' be carried on to final judgment, and execution,
agreeably to the prpvisions of any of said laws-under which
they are commenced, and the practice.of the courts.".
It is asked, what wa. the 6bJect-of.this saVing clause, or
VoL. II.--3 0

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lessee.]

-rather what rights and iterests was it intended to protect
from the operation of repealing power. The rights and interests which 'the saving clause was to protect were all those
various fights and interests upon which the laws repealed
had acted or begun to-act in a course of judicial proceeding;
it is to -affect not in any manner any suit or prosecution
pending aid undetermined, commenced under existing laws,
.r sanctioned by the practice of the courts.
Prosecution is a word still more comprehensive than suit,
akd 'which cannot be subjected to technical restraints. It is
not .a.technical term, though sometimes vulgarly used to sighify criminal proceedings. 3 Thomas's Coke,. 348.
In addition, to show the sense in -which the .wordssuits,
-actions and prosecutions have been used by the legislature
of Ohio, the Court will look'at Land Laws, 323. 1. Ohio
Laws, 8; 11. 2 Ohio Laws; 67. 3 OhioLaws, 257, 2$4, 285,
294. From these it appears, that these words have been used
to embrace all manner of judicial proceedingwhen transferxing jurisdiction, upon passing from a territory to a state;
in. It
the organization of new counties and fiew- courts.
has been said that this- petition of the administrators
for the 8ale of the land, &c. was pending, and that a qualified order had been-granted in 1804, and that the order of
1805 was -supplementary. Now it is aske4], whether this
proceeding did not involve rightE, fnd interests as sacred,
falling as completely within the mischiefs intefided to be
guarded against. by the saving clause, as dny adversary proceeding which can lie imagined. "In 2 Serg. - awle, 8,
the court'decides, that all the orders of sale are parts of tfie
same proceeding, they rest upon thq same foundatioi, and
refer themselves back to the filing of the petition. It is
therefore considered, that if the act of 1795 were iepealed,
it did not affect the administration.
It'has been shown that the common pleas was a court of,
original and almost unlimited jurisdiction, and that the principle that lands should be assets in the hands of administraIors fbr the payment-of debts, a principle unknown to the
common law, had been early introduced into the colonies
and perpetuated after the revolution by nearly all the states,

JANUARY TiEM 18-29..
[Bank'of Hamilton vs. Dttdley'B lesged.!

and -particularly by Pennsylvania- the powerful neighbour of
Ohio; from Whom were borrowed-not only most of the principies of her organic law but nearly all her first statutes. Now
if the point of juritdiction is established, it is claimed that
the. order of 1805, which authbrised the sale of the lot in
question, is valid until reversed; it is resjudicata,and-cannot
be impeached ;collaterally. It is not like, the order of a
judge of pr6bate or any other judicial, whose powers are
specified and limited. The principle which this argument
maintains pervades all the ciases. ." What judges 6f themimatter have adjudged, isnot traversable." 1 Salk. 396. A.botrary principle applies only to.courts of special- limite.d jurisdiction.
- It was hoped that as. the defendant in error had elected
.the +fedeiaf judiciary to* decide- upon-his rights, he, wduld
have been content to abide by its unbiassed.decision;. aild
that if those whom he has driven to battle were .to fall, they
would, at least, have the consolation which in legal warfare
always arises from an- unshaken confidence in the learning
and integrity. of the arbiter. -Itis known that it is the law
of this.forum,.thatin cases dependiig upon.the lawsof-a
state, this.Court will adhere, to the construction given by the
superior court-of the state, upon the-universaliy recognized
principle, that the judicial depirtment of every goverfifient
is not only competent to, tut is the fit organ. to expound
its laws. But this rule, from the peculiar form of our go.vernments, -is subject to these limitatiois, hamely, that if
the exposition of'the local laws by the local judiciary-con-flict with the constitution :the'.law , ortreaties oftliT'Uited
States, it -is not. binding-.upon this Court. T%.'this rule,
which is certainly 'cprrect, we yield unqualified approbation;
but deny its application. What. is the reason upon which
it is founded !. Why does this "Cburti possessing so* manf
superior, advantages, yiel]l an entire submission to state.adjudic'ationT -It is- not from courtesy. -but because natural
:justice requires it, since the local. adjudication harbecome
a rule of prop6rty which regulates and settles the rights of
mmum and tuum, a permanent land -markwhich it would be'
•mischievbus to remove. Vide 5Cianch,184.:- 10 7wheaton,

508

SUPREME cOUaT
[Bank of Hamilton v& ludleys, lessee.)

199. 7 Wheaton, 114. 5 Johns, Rep. 290., 9 Johns. Rep
424. 6 Johns. Rep. 381.,
Even if the statute of 1795 were repealed and had no
saving clause, while the act requiring an equal distribution
ofinsolvents' estates continued in force, the couit.had jurisdictionf the, subject matter and could grant the order.
nd-th'e order once grdnted could. not be. invalidated by
showing, sonie twenty years afterwards, that the court .erred
in -point of fact, that the estate ,was solvent, for whether
Ludlow's estate was solvent or insolIvent does not-appear. This case having been continued under advisement since
the last term.we are now met with a decision of the supreme
,court of.Ohio; which it lis said, decides the merits of this
-controversy and concludes this- Court. What influence this,
ought to have upon the judgment -f this Court as to the law
of the case, will now Be considered.
The decision in Ohio acts retrospectively-apd. annuls past
transactions, and- not prospectively to regulate the' future
acquisition of property. It is the decision of the common
pleas which settled the law, if conpetent to decide upon the
subject matter, which is bifiding upon this Court until it is
reversed. The questiond inv6lved in this case, can only be
*decided by the principlesof the common law; even the question-whether a %atute is repedlid or not, can onlybe determined -by the rules of-const .tion which., it prescribes.' If.
the supreme -court had decided against the jurisdiction of
the common Pleas to grant the orders, perhaps it would have
,been conclusive upon this Court; but it sustains the jurisdic-.
-tion. The order of r805 is claimed to be un order of'May
term before the law was repealed, entered, nunc pro tune, at
.August term; and if not valid as an order of May, it is good
as a supplemental ordet of August, and relates back to -the
petition; but the supreme court hias, decid~d, collaterally, that
it-was an. aat coram'on ju(dice. -All these are questions
which depend upon general principles, and not upon the
exposition of local laws, and we think we have a right to ask
the unbiassed decision 6f this Court upon them.
This Court will never- follow the law as decided by the
local tribunals, unlesi it be settled by a series of decisions,
-

.1"UARY TRM 1829.

509

[Bantof Hamilt hv. Dudjey's lessee.]

and is acquiesced in by t~e itrofessioni t it is id thig
case asked to .yield implibit obedience io an isolated case.in*the decision of'which the court was divided; a decision
-too, as itis solemnly believed,.fraught With the most perni-.
.cious and )ruinous- consequences; and which, Unless thelearning and justice of the profession arp. greatly mistaken,
-will,never meet its approbation.
The counsel for the plaintiff then proceeded to discuss
the question: of the constitutionality of tile occupying claimant law. The argument§ upon.this point foi the plaintiff
and the defendant, are stated ir.
the opinion of theCouit..
* Mr Garrard, for the defendants, after stating the case, the
laws of the territory of Ohio, and'the acts of the legislatilre
of that statb, which had been referred to by the counsel for
the plaintiff in error, proceeded, to say:
In.construing the act of 1803 it should be borne in mind,
that the court Qf common pleas, created by, it; is a limiited
*and circumscribed tribunal in its jiirisdictioif and that~updnthelaw of 1803 it depends entirely fdr its existence. If it
is a court of limited and inot general jurisdiction, the idistinction between-them is at once' destroyed, if the exercise of
*gneral powers shall be deeinie4 consistent with-its limited
character.
The distinction between courts of limited and general jurisdiction should not be abolished. Obligatory effect-should
n6t alike be given to a'cts-of a court of limited jurisdiction,
when they are done within their real, or by asStbed pbwers.
If a court of limited ahd circumscribe& jurisdiction. can legitimately-exercise general powers, fio.good. reason can be
given why.the court of common pleas shuld-not he sustained inaufntng'the.peculiar powers and .jurisdiction of this'
Court. If an.assumed power is valid -for 'one purpose and
for.one -occasion; it is.valid for all andevery.purpose. There.
is no rule of construction, by which, the ]imitedand cireum-.
*scribed jurisdiction of the, dburt of common ,pleas, can be
made so broad and reaching in its character, as to.emitrace
the.orders of i84 and 1805..' The rule of construction ap.

•510'

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton s.-Dudley's lessee.]

'plicable to this case is well settled, and has never been devi'ated from: 'it is, that the 'organic'law of, the court is the
'Chirter of its powers, and :it it las no powers beyond that
ihirter, except such as are.necessarily incident to it, to carry
into .effect its orders, judgments, and decrees. Such was
the rule of construction under which the ocourt of probate
end orphans' court acted, who "possegsd'ie same power
with the court of common pleasi under their. respective orgenic laws. - T-he power to 'idur :the sale of an intestate's
-reallestate, by his adiinistritors, was exercised by the orphans' court only in virtue of the -adt of 1795. That act
does not extend to the. court 'of common pleas, but is confined in its terms. The -law o( 1803 d6es not extend that
-power to-them by any express grant nor can it be implied
by any reasonable interpretation of that act. 'The power
therefore did not exist, and'the orders are cons'equently "co!ramnon judce
Should the, jurisdiction of the court of common pleas be
-sustained, it will theni be. contended that the act of 1795
was repealed prior to the granting of either of the orders in
evidence.
1. 'The act of 1795 was repealed by the 'act of the 18th
of Februa 'y 1804, which took effect the !st day of May.1804,
entitled *hact"'defining the duties ofRexecutors and administrators on wills and intestates'-estates.". This act strictly
confines the. duties and powers of executors and aaiminis-.
trators -to the personal estate of the deceased,-it directs
how letters of administration -hall be granted,-what powers,
they shall confer',--how administrators shall roceed,-how
they shall be called to account;-'and it repeals ' all lawsand parts oflaws contrary to the provisions of this act."
The intention of this law was to p6int out and define the
whole duties and power to'be exercised by executors and
administrators in' future$ and it restricts them to the personalties of the deceased; a powet to sell'the 'real estate does
not seem to be contemplated by this statute 'in any of its
provisions, either by a direct grantor by reference to former
and existingilaws, giving such power; but it repeals .all laws

JANUARY -TERM 189.

51

(Bank ofaRmilton vs.-Diidefs lessee.]

and parts-of laws contrary to the- provisions of this law. W
power in the administrator -to sell the land and pasq the-title
of an intestate's.real, estateis certainly inconsistent with and
contrary to the provisions of a la.w, that undertakek.to prescribe the whole -duties aid-powersof esecutors 4nd"adiministrators)-andlimits their management to the personal estate;
And,whilst this -spirit continued, to direct-the minds of the
firstlegislatures of the state, it is-a reasonable and-legiimate
prdsumption'to say that whenever they unaertobk to legislate
upon any particular subject,-they made. all regulations. and
provisions required-by the exigenees of the, coun.ry. That
they intendedJiy this.adt to define the whole' duties and
powers. of executors-und administrators,, and limit the'Mn to
tliaosepreseribed Jby this statute itself, which repeals alllaws
aind parts bflaws contrary, t6 its provisions'It.
Was repealed by, the-act of 1805, -entitled-" an",act
.defining the duties of execufoTrs and administrators on wills
and intestates' estates, and providing- for the appointment -of
guardians." Thi s act was passed in connexio -with-two
oiber laws relative to the- same uiatter;-one directing ,the
manner 6f executing, proving and recording wills and -codi-"
pils; ancdt the. othet directing the -distribution of iisolvents'
estated. -All- of these laws restrict th duties:of-e eutors
"hnd-administrators, and the powers of the couis-to thwjper-sonaltiesof the deceaged; and eac.h of them contains a re-.
pealing-clause, and the ,first, all laWs upon-the same subject.
If thelaw o'f 1.795 was thbea inforce it was certainly repealed;
as it was upon'the same-subject with this-act: :By-a refer.ence to the statdte book of this year it will- be seen that the.
legislature of 1-804-5 took -.upon -themselves in an especial'
manner the character and duties of irevisors-offthe lawis then
in force; and they- adopted a-*system -which underwent little
or no change till - 1808. - They passed a general iepealing
law which will be noticed hereafter. They passed a general,
law regulitng judgments and executions,' incorporating in
it provisionj entirely new, and. repealed all other laws upon
that subject; That the jhree laws above-mentioned were
treated and considered as the only'laws in force from their
passage -till 1808, is evidenced by the fact that the law of

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lessee.]

ihe 18th of February 1808, 'vhich incorporates the provisions
of these three laws into one,- repeals these laws by a special
reference to them as the only laws then in force upon the
subject.

Land Laws, 459.

3. The act of 1795 was repealed by the act of the 22d of
February i805, entitled "an act repealin certain 'laws."
Land Laws, 473.

The first section repeals all. the laws

adopted by the governor and judges prior to the Ist of September 1799. The act for- the settlement 'of intestates'
estates, having been adopted prior to that period, was cer-.
iainly repealed by this act; and all proceedings by administrators subsequent to the 1st of June 1805k which assumed
the adt of-1795 as their basis, were null and void, unless
they were such as came within the meaning of the saving
clause of the second section.
The second section provides, "that nothing in this act
contained, shall be so construed, as to affect in any manner,
any suit of prosecution now depending and undetermined.
but the same shall be carried-on-to final judgment and.eieCution, agreeably to the provisions of any of said laws under
which-the suit or prosecution may have been' commenced,and'the-practich of the courts." It was. contended by the
defendant'i counsel, that the clause not only saved the unexecuted power derived under the order of 1804, but that it
saed a'power in'the dourtof common pleas to go 'on-.and
make additional and supplemental orders ad infinitum,'by
relation tW the first.- To-support these propositions, it was
maintained-that such 'was the intention, of the statute by a
fr construction of the terms used '-and se'condly; that the
egiqlature had. not the constitutional power, finder the cir,umstances -of the 'case, either to annul the order'of May
1804, although no rights had been acquired by'.a sale under
it:or to repeahlthe act of 1795 so as t6 prevent the court
from xiaking n.w" .nd additional orders,
Ia-.determining the corretess Qf ihe irst position, as- to
the meaning of-the-saving cla'us; we' must look to0-the lah-"
guage of the statute. The repeal is -. ot to affect in any
manneX any "suit o%' pro8ecuton.?' The. definitio'n' is thus
given of the term suit-" the lawful'demand of one's right,"

JANUARY TERM 1829,

.513

[Bank pf Hamilton vs; Dudley's lpssee.]-

or, in the words of Justinian,."juspr.6seqte~niinjudicioquo
alicui deetur.'" 3 Blakstohe's Commentaries, I..6, If a
sit"
u" means the lawful demadld of one's right, there necessarily-must be some one to make the demand, apd some one
of whom.1he demand is made, through the medium of a
cort,.and thee parties- receive the niamesof plaintiff and
de.fedant. The one complains of tho violation of his rights,
either growing out of.contract or torts cmnmitted:; the.other,
defending himself against the injury complained of,-either
denies the contract or tort, or shoWs that, the one- has eenA
.satisfid, .or thL-other,juistified. Spe..aiso; 6 Wheat. 467.4 6.
The .term prosecution,.botfi techniially and in common.
parlance, when applied to the:proceedings, of a, court, -reates
excisiveki to criminals, .or to suits upon penal-statutes. If
amxitdqr is committed, the perpetmtor.is prosecuted by the
':state; ' So with pejury;.rape, arson, and the various degrees
of felony-the state is:plaintiff, complaining 6f wrongs and.
violations.of her stafutes. There-'are also-various statutes
attaching -.penalties in moneyfor the performance or nonperformaance .of certain acts.-when -the: one. -is done .or the
other-neglected, pro~ecutions are commenced in -the.name
of *thestate for the amount of the penalty.
-But the. terms "suit and piosecution"Pare -fully.explained
(if they. needed any explanation.) by the subsequent -.part of
i-he saving clause. It provides that the "suit or prose.ution"
'depen.dipg and . videtermine,- rhall -be carried on to" finitl
' judgment and. execution."' It is'wholly immaterialwhither
the term"' suit p.r.prosequtron"is aftempi/d to be applied to
the order.of 1804, or thle Su~iequent. petition and order of
'i is said that-the une-xecutcd order
August'.teim. 1.05.'
of.1804, is'.saved, by the.tern-: suit or prosecution;" *it mqy.be. a.sked, wjhm-is the-plaihtiff in the 6rder '. To what -tribunal was.'tl~e- appaI made? And aganst whom-was ihe
complaint. made! What judgembnt was ibh. order, to be
Agaihstwhom and for'whose befiefitwa
.." carried on td"
the jiilgment to beentered'. These queries unquestionably
show tiat _thetermis "' suit or ptosecutioiP 5cannot be applied
*to th~eorder of 1804,. or to'the subsequent petition'and 6rde,
of 1805. But the :' suit'or pros.ecution" is to be carried on
VOL. II.-- P

"514

.SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hapiflton vs. Iudle,'s lessee.]

not only to " finaljudgnent," but also to "execution." The
term "execution" is -certainly used here in the technical
sense Qf the word, *as applied .to the final procesg of tire
court,. in the hands. of its executive officer, to carry into
effect its ordersjudgment;'and decrees. An execution is
defined to be the "puttihg the sentence of the law in force.
This is- performed'in different manhers according to the nature of the action upon which it is founded, and. of the judgment which is had or recovered." 3 Blackstone, 412, title
Execution; chap. 26.
Neither the order of 1804, or the subsequent petition and
order of August 1805, can, by any reasonable interpretation
of language, be..construed into a "suit or prosecution :"neither was ".C
pending and undeteilmined" at the time the
.repealing law -took effet;-ineither of them was a proceeding of a character upon which a judgment could be entered
or an execution issued; they are, therefore, clearly .without
the saving clause of the general repealing law'of 1805..
But to this it is replied, thdt the legislature had not the
constitutional power to repeal the law of 1795, so as to affect
either the order of 1804, or the subsequent order of 1805.
It is said that by the laws in force at the "death of Ludlow,
and when administration was granted, the real estate of an
intestate was assets in the hands of his administrat6rs; -and
that .by these Jaws the rights of the administrators, creditors,
dstributees and heirs in the estate should be ascertained
and settled. That- the rights of the creditors to. look'to the
real estate in the hands of.the administrators ds assets, had
attached--that their rights had been recognized by the
pourt, and the administrators had instituted the. only suit
known to the law to enforce them."
If these orders and proceedings were withdrawn from the
scope of constitutional legislation, an4.the law of 1795 rendered perpetual,' it was in virtue of the constitution and the
ordinance of congress.
'What are.the,facts relative to-th. order of 1804' and what
rights' had been acquired under it at"the date of the -repeal
of the, act of" 179,5,. that were shielded 'y the constitution
and ordinance ? It is, it evidence; that ai the, May term

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of Haniilton vs. Dudlfsi lessee.]

1804, of the coult of common pleas, the*7administrators of
Ludlow applied for and obtaihed an order-to sell a.portion
of the estate-of said Ludlow. No sale, however, Wasmade
.of any portion of his real estate till August and September
.1805, in the county of Hamilton. None-had evzr -been

offered under that order at public.sale; no 'purchase had
been made, no contract ihad been 'entered into, '-that 'sV'&
within the power conferred by the order..- The oider.remained a naked authority or poiver to sell; it-was unexe-"
cute'd either in whole or in part; it was dependent upon the.
statute. for its *validity, and when 'that was rel elel,-the
order fell with it. The rights of the creditors'iiere 'irn no
better or worse condition by the repeal of the law;. they tomain6d as they did at -the 'death of -Ludlow, iusceptible or
having the lands. charged with them in case:of a deficiency
of the personal estate. .If in fact the court of common'
pleas had jurisdiction under- the act of 179.5, 'and it was in
force at the date of the order of 1804, and in.virtue of that
order the admin'istratorshad proc'eeded to sell-at public' sale,
the real estate of Ludlow,- pr.ior to the repeal, but.had not
finally executed the title papers ; it would be a fair and- legitimate constructian of the repealing law, to say that the'
rights of. the purchasers thus acquired,.would be'saVed by
'the reservation of the repealing law, and the. administrators
would, under those circumstances, have 'been- authorized
to proced and complete the-title to the purchasers.
!The'order of 1804, and the rights*6f the creditors under
it, were, at..the time of the repeal, as legitinafe 'sujects of
legislation, as the executio0p' laws of the stiate are;'which
have undergone various' chaliges- and modifications Withodt.
reference to the contracts of individuals. 'Cited M'C=rac
vs. Alexander, 2 Ohio Re. 76.
'Whai were,, in fact, the righis' ofthe creditors of' Ludlow
at his death . 'They consisted of deb s' due from him as
ev*denced 'by-open' dccount, or by bonds or-notes of hand.
Nbw these are the rights i hich, .it ii'said, wer'e so incorporated ith, and mrixed.up with the .laws existing -at "his
death'.that the'repeal of tho'se laws impaired the obigatiorm
f' his coxtracts.

516

SUPR-EME COURT.
[Bank of Hawiton vs. Dudley's.lessee,j

These rights, in. their amount and theircharacter,Were'ascertained atid fixed' by the contracts of the parties. The
right to demnand, and the obligdtibn to pay, -are the consequences of cozrtract. , The repeal of the act of 1795 neither
takes away the. right to demand, nor-diminishes nor discharges the obligation to paj. The amount andqualityof
tie.. iights of. his creditorq we're- feft by the repealing law
exactly- as they were fixed by the parties; -and the obligation
to. pay, and the liability of his estate to answer the deniand"
of his creditors, are as valid and perfect as they were prior
to the'repeal.' 'The law does. ndt assume that the debts due
shall, ,from its passage, be considered paid, and the estate
discharged ;-it does'not 'purport to absolve the estate from
the-contracts of Ludlow, in. any other manne'r than by the
payment of the.uttermost farthing. .If it lessened the rights
of -the creditor, and impaired the obligation of the-dehtpr,
i'twould -not only fill .the. spirit; -but. the letter-of the inhibiting clauses
Whatever. power the.,order may have coniferred- on the
administratorg, or whatever rights the creditors may-have
had,, to have their debts collected through -that particular
nedae of -ikforcing thir. collection, they were all alik&,derivd through,' and dependent upon, the legislation of the
country ;-and, it, is held to- be coniistent with sound principles and the dedisions of this Court to say, that-so long.as the
order reinaiied unexecuted, neithei purchaser nor creditor
had suchlvested rights under it, as were drawn out Pf the
scope.of legitimate legislation. *if the order itself, or the
supposed -vested rights.bf the cre4itors -to' have that order
executed, were the rezilt of the -contractsof .the parties,
and not the effect of the operations of a law, whic'h in no
marinr entered into or biecame a part of thet'"-contracts,
they -might with some propriety be s"id to be embraced
within the constitution.
All the argum'ents' of the defendant's couisel, whatever
form they may have assumed,'-have' been refuted by the very
learned and unanswerable opinion of the chief justice of the
'United States in the case of Ogden vs. Saturfders,'-12 Wheaton's Repots, 332 to 357. He seems to have established

JANUARY TERM 1829.

517

[Bank of Xlamilton*vi. Dudley', Iessee,3

of-the'proposition, contended
ise
incontrovertibly- th6 copV
fi*by thie defendants
-irthtMscase.
-He has- showii that the
rightto contract-is not corifeired.by societ,' but is a natural,
original right, bz'ought 'by each individual.-into societ,; arid
thnt-the-obligation'of contracts is not the, result'of positive.
liw, but is intrinsic, and is Onferred by the act of the partie. -The iight-. to coerce the perfbrmande of a contract,
although is ni'ch a naturai, right as the fight to contract;
yet it is surrendered by every individual -when,he comjes into
a government of.lavis, "aid this surrender imposes the duty
on.the. gvernment to furnish adequate remedies., The.der'fendant's- counsel assume that the right to regulate the re1nedy,- a'nd"to modifjy the obligatioA-of iicontTeat&,-are the
same-tha the' obligat"j and the remedy, are identicalthat they ar'.e ynonynious-two -words conveying the same
meaning.- The :answerto thin shape of the- argument,'is"
plaini andiimplb., The'.obligati6n. of a- contract is' coeval
withthe cbntract itself--it originates with the contract,.,andc
*exists with it aiterior to th time of performance. The reneay.operates upon a bioken contract, -and its'office isto:
enforce q pre-existing obligation. :Obligation and remedy,
or~right and remedy,-hre therefore not-- identical-they'originate ,at different 'times, and are derivod
different
sources-the one flows, from the-act 6f 'the
t --the
-from

wther is furnished by the-government.
.The"counsel. themse.lves' ihrink fronr the conclusions to'
which their doctrines-iust ine~.iitabl y lead, and attempt to.
show that.sudhwduld'tot-be theii Consequences ;'but'they
can not be disguised. Ifth'e rights o the'creditors of Lud-_
low t6 have thdit debts cllecteq! under'the remedial l&dws in"
force at the date of their contracts or at his death, were such
"is'Were withdrawn frfia'subsequent legislation, by that clause
of the. constitution, inhibiting "the passage of 'any-law impairing the oIbligation of contracts," and a sale could legally
bemade one day afte" the repealing la* took effect;-'the
same principle can be extexided tp.all cases Without regard,
to timd'or 'ircumstances. , The act of'1795 vould be made
perpetual in the settlement of'an.estate. 'The order of.1804
would be' a-springing use, 'or power "in
the.adhinLstrators.

518

-SUPREME COURT.
[Bank-of Hamilton us. Dudley's lessee.]

which they could go on to execute at their pleasure, regardless of the subsequtrit.alterations and modifications of the
laws regulating.the passage of lands from one to another.
The-power'to mrodify-the remedial -law,-necessaril)' inicludes
the power to repeal it; and this doctrine equally excludes
both.
Upon the subject of this repealing law of Vebruary 22d,
1805, another argument has been pressed into the. service, of
cona'very singpuar .chaacter. However out of place it is.
sidered,-, still it has been urged so often, so oseriously, -and
'by so niany different g'entlemen, 'that it' ought not to. be
passed in silence.
In the ses.sion of 1804'and 1805, (Vol. IIL 164,) the same
legislature that enacted the repealing law,.also enacted a
statute providing for the appointment of guar.dians to lunatics
.and others. 'This. latter statute passed, January 15, 1805,'
and the 2d section contains a provision similar to that. of the
law, on the same subject, of 1792,' with -a variation of.phxa-.
seblogy, using'the word "are," instead of "may or shall."
"Out of 'the real .estate, in such manner as executors and
'administrators are,-by law enabled td discharge the debts of
deceased persons,". &c:. rt is urged that ll the acts of the
same session should. be taken and considered- together as.
6ie statute;- -And that,. upon this ionstruction, -the.clause
here qqoted, is to be'considered as a declarttion th'at no repal.of the' law of 1795.was intended.'
"The ans.wer already given, to the attempt to create pr set
up- a law, Sy iriidirect legislation of'this n~tuie, applies with
equal force here. - But in this place the argument is de•siroyed.-by other considerations. The last enactment of the
same 'sessi6n-contiols, the first, if they are in.terms Contradictory or ineonsistent. If, in January, 'the law of 1795 was
supposed to be. in foree, and if the. reference to it may 'be
regarded as a legislative declaration of an intention' to continue it; the subsequent enactment of February -expressly
repealing it, must never'theless have opeiative effedt. .And,
adopting the principle of constracti6n insisted upon" b '4he
other side, this, consequence follows :-the reference, in.the
act of-January to the .existing law, adopts or revives it fbr'

JANUARY TERM: 1829.

5 =
5'19

[Bank,6fHamilton us. Dudlyaiis.]

tne Opecial purpose-aeclared; but-canniot, contrary to thete-..
pealing act, continue it in force for any other purpose;
. There remains one point.more to .be disposed ,of,.in rel.
tion~to the order of 1805.' It is pot dendied that'the order of
Kay 1804 excludes from its operationj tht lot now in disputeS 'and that the defendants-are thrown entirely upon 'theoider ofAugust term 180.5, to make outtheir defence. As
aniorder of August term 1805, it is liable to all the objections made to the order of 1804, with this additional and
unanswerable one, that it was applied for andobthined, after
the repealing act took effect. It is attemptd, however, to
6bviate this objection, by'showiiig that the order was really
applied for and -granted at May term 1805, prior tp the taking effect of the repealing law;.but that it was, throughfihe
negligence of-the clerk, 4not: entered till the subsequent'
term, "1runcpro tfunc."
If this order can be sustained for any beneficial purpose,
in this cbntroversy,'as an order of May term .1805, it must
be upon the principle that a 'court of record--is-not bound" to
keep a.record, but that its 'roceedings are' mattes w'hich
can be sutained.'and preserved in the minds, of its officers.
-In this instance, it is an order of May term, only by the'testimony of one of the judges, who then composed the court.
Admit, for -the sake of argument, that the cdurt of 'Cihm-'
mon pleas had the power to make the order at the May tri.
yet that power had ceased befoee the August term, by force
*ofthe repealing law, and it- was aq conipetent -for -them .tck
grant a new order upon an original application, as it was to
enter.this one "nune protunc."
But suppose the law'of 1795 had not been repealed, and
the jurisdiction.of the court-should be admitted, still it is
contended, that upon well settled principles, heretofore recognised by this Court, the order could only be regarded as
the-judicial act ;f the -court, from- the tirie it'actually -I6came a matter of record ; and thd fact that the court attempted to give it an operative character, prior to iis having been
entered of record, by ordering it to be entered " nuncpro
tunc," gives it no additional validity; If, indeed, the order
had been regularly Applied for,-and the records of the 6uit

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's iessee.]

furnished-evidence Of Mat fact, and the order had been
granted, but neglected to be entered by the clerk; and ,previous- to the next term the administrators -had gone on tosell;
under the belief that the officers of the court had done their
duty, and purchasersh.ad paid their money upon the faithof
the validity, of the proceeding; it is nat doubted,.that at a
subsequent term, "it could be entered- and held valid.
The records themselves wduld furnish evidence of the
proceedings in part, and the remainder might be substituted:
-but its validity; as the order of a previous- term, could
only. be supported upon the principle, that rights had been
acquired'in good faith, under.a due execution of the poWver
intended to -be conferred by the order. 'It'would be to protect .and-make good that which had already. been done in
good faith, and under the supposition that the proceedings
.of the court were "spread upon. its records; but it cannot be
made the ordler of.May term, merely to give colour to the
power of thie court,:and to support- proceedings which took
place subsequent to, August 1805.
SMr-Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This cause*was fully argued.it the last'term on the validity of the deed made *by the .administrators; and several
acts, which were supposed to illustrate that question to which
it is unnecessary -now to refer; were cited andrelied ofi. As

it *vas a -question of great'interbst,.6n which many titles deended, which was to bedecided entirelyby the statutes of
Ohio; and as the Court was informed that the verycase was

dependinig before the highest tribunal'of the state, the case
iwas held .under advisement. The cause depending before
the state court, which'Was an ejectment for other land sold.

by the same administrators under the same orders of the court
of common pleas, has been since decided, and the supreme
court of the state has.determined:
I. That there was'no law in the territory prior to the act

of 1795, authorizing administrators to sell -the lands and
tenements of an intestate.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

521

.[Bank of Hamilton'vs. Dtdley's lessee.)

2' That this :law was repealed, and ceased to have effect from and after the 1st day of lune 1805;
3. That the order of the court of common pleas of May
term 1804, directing the administrators of Israel Ludlow-to
sell a part of the real estate of said Ludlow for the payment
of his debts, did not embrace the premises ih question.
4. That the par.ol testimony offered in evidence to prove"
an order of sale at the May terf 1805, was incompetent.
5. That the order of the said court af the August.term
1805, was coram nonjudice and -void; and that the lessors'
of the plaintifft could not be divested of their title, in consequence of any act done in pursuance of that order.
At this term the cause has been again argued, and the
counsel for the plaintiffs. in error-have made several- points
which they supliose to be still open.
They contend, that the repeated declaration of this Court,
that it will conform to the construction of the statutes of a
state made by-its own tribunals, does not apply to the' decision
respecting the order made in August 1805. They insist that
the power of the court to make this entry as of the May term
pieceding, depends upon the common law, not on the statutes
of Ohio, and that the question is still open for discussioi.
Supposing it to be open, they maintain that- the omission
to enter the order in May, when it ias made, was a clerical misprision, which the court might correct in August, and,
enter the order as of May term. -It has, they contend, the
the same effect ad if it had been actually entered in May;
and, allowing this, the.subsequent repeal of the law before
the sale was made, could not affect the power to sell which
was given by the order, and therefore thesale is valid.
To sustain this argument, all the propositions on which it
rests must be true. The decision of the state tribunal must
be of a character which this Court will consider, undoubtedly, with great respect, but not as conclusive authority. The
court of common pl*as must have had the power in August,
after the repeal of the law under which the order was made,
to enter it as of May, and the administrators must have had
the power to sell in virtue of the order, after the law by authority of which it was made, had been repealed. If the
VOL. I.-3 a

SUPIEME COURT.
[Bank of HamilLon vs. Dudley's lessee.]

plaintiffs in error have failed in sustaining any one- of tnese
propositions, the conclusion which has been dravn. from
them is not supported.
Thie judges are not united in opinion on these several propositions, but chicurinthifiking that~the cpnclusion drawn
from the whole-ofithem is not sustained.. The power of the
inferior courts of a state, to make an,order at one term, as of
another, is of a character so peculiarly local, a proceeding
so necessarily dependent on the judgment 9f the revising
tribunal'of th& state, that-a majority considers that judgment
as authority,;and we are all' disposed to,conform t6 it.
But, wer'ethis question entirely open, the-considerations
which.appear to-have influenced the judgment of the supreme
court 6f Ohio, "are-certainly entitled, to.great weight.. That,
a court of record, whose proceedings can be-proved by the
iebord'alone, should, at .a subsequent term, determine that
an,order was made at a previous term, of which no irace
could be found on its records; and that too after the'repeal
of.'tbe law which gve.authority to make such an order; is aproceeding of so mui delicacy and danger, which is'liable,o so much abuse; that-some of-us question the existence of
the power.
* .In'
thLe-case;.as.depending before this Courtthere is-still a
str'onger objection to- the validity of the order, of August
1805. Its langiage does not impQrt that the administratoys
had'applied'to the'court at the preceding May' term, for an
extensioh: of the. order of May 1804, and .that the court had
granted their application,' and- made -the orde , which the
clerk had omitted to: enter, and that therefore -the order, is'
now made,, with a direction that- it shbuld be entered as of
May..: This is not its langupge. It makes no allusion to any
proceeding in May. - It :purpdrts. to -have been,made on an
original application by the administrators, in-Atgust, for an
extension of the order of May 1804. On this original application, the court allbws the.administrators 'to sell the house
and lots in Cincinnati, and-adds, "this. entryfto.be considered,
as of May' term 18Q5.7' The entry, on i.tsfae,-.does not imr-port to be the-correction of the record,-by placing. on, it an
order which had -inf ct been made in,the-preceding May,

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lessee.]

-

-

and which the cl~rk had omitted to enter; but- to be an original proceeding in August, to which the Court by its own.
authority gives a retrospective operation. If any explanatory testimrony could have been received in the circuit court,
none Was offered. That court was required 'to infer'-from
the words," this entry to be considered as of May term 1805,"
that it was in fact. made at that term, and that the elerk hadtotally omitted-it. The certainty wiich-is necessary in'judicial records, and the principle that they-prove themselves,
forbade the court to draw'this inference. 'The law being then repealed, the order was certainlt, coram nonjudice.
.It-is also the opinion of one of the judges, that had the.
r6ider even.beftnmade in May term, the repeal of the law
before the sale, terminated the power to sell.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error have also conter ded,
that the interest of the- administratos -in
'the. real estate, as
trustees for the: creditors,, was a vested interest, which the
Srepeal of.the law could not divest; and that they fmight proceed to sell under the sanction of an qrder made even after
the liw was. repealed.
This is a point on which We cannot doubt.- The lands of
an intestate descend not "t the administrators, but to the
heir. They vest in him, liable, it is true, to the'debts of his
ancestor, and subject to be sold for those debts. The administrator has no estate in- the land; but a -power to sell
under the authority of the 'court'of comion pleas. This is
not an independent power, to be exercised 'at diseretion,
when the exigency,in his opinion may require it; but is conferred by the court in ,a state of things prescribed by the
law. The order of the court is a pre-requisite, i'dispensable
to the very existence of the power; and if the law which.
'authorised 'tlh court t6 make the order be repealed, the'
power to-sell can n ver come into existence. The repeal.of
such a law divests no vested estate,- but is the"exercise of a.
legislative power which every legislature possesses. -The
mode of subjecting the property of a debtor to the demands
of acreditor, muist alivays depend ofi the wisdom of the ler
gislature."'

-

It-is also .contended that the jurisdiction of the court',of

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Hamilton vs. Dudley's lessee.]

common pleas, in testamentary matters, is established by the
constitution, and that the exclusive power of the state courts
to construe legislative acts does not extend to the paramount
law, so as to enable them to give efficacy to an act which is
contrary to the constitution.
We cannot admit this distinction. The judicial department of every government, is the rightful expositor of its
laws; and emphatically of its supreme law. If in a case
depending before any court, a legislative act shall conflict
with the constitution, it is ,admitted that the court must exercise its judgment on both, and that the constitution must
control the act. The court must determine whether a repugnancy does or does not exist; and in making this determination, must construe both instruments. That its construction of the one is authority, while its construction of
the other is to be disregarded, is a proposition fox' which
.this Court can .perceive no reason.
But, had the question never been decided in Ohio, this
.Court can perceive no sufficient ground for declaring, that
the legislature of the state- might. not repeal the law by
which the court of common-pleas was authorized to direct,
iii a summary way, the sale of the lands of. an intestate.
"Jurisdiction of all probate and testamentary matters," may
'be completely exercised, without possessing the power to.
order the sale of the lands of an intestate. Such jurisdiction
does net appear to.us to be identical with that power,.or to
comprehend it. The constitution did not mean arid could
not mean, to deprive the legislature of the power of exercising its wisdom on a subject so vitally interesting to the
people; nor do its words convey such an intent.. Were it
even true, .which -we cannot admit, that the constitution
established the jurisdiction of the court of common pleas in
the case, still the legislature might prescribe the rule by
which that jurisdiction should be exercised.
We are satisfied that there was no error in the instruction,
given by the circuit court to the jury.
The plaintiffs iq error contend that the court erred ii
overruling the motion to appoint commissioners to value the
improvements in. pursuance. of the occupant law. of Ohio ;

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of Hamilton vs.Dudley's lessee.]

and in rendering judgmenit without conforming to that kIw.
The first section of the act proviades that "an occupying
claimant," circumstanced as was the plaintiff in error, " shall
not be evicted or turned out of possession, until he or she

shall be fully paid the value of all, lasting, and -valuable, improvements made by such occupying claimant," "previous to
receiving actual notice by the commencement of.suit;" &c.
ixnlegs such occupying blaimant shall refuse to. pay fh
pers6n so seiting up and proving an.adverse and better title,
the value .ofthe land without'the ifnprovements made thereon, ' &c. "
The 2d section, proceeds.to direct the covurt to appoint.
commissiQnte's to make the. valuation, which had- been pre,.
scribed .by the preceding section.
* ,The counsel, -fot the defendant in- error insists that this
law is repugnant to'the 10th se~tion of the firsf article of the'
constitution of the United States; and to the ordinance of
1-787 for the government of the 'north western territory.
This Court does'jnot think that these questions properly
aris& in the pregeni actual state of this controversy. '. The'
7th amendment to the constitution*of the'-United States de.
clares that z'in suits at coimmon law, whee the 'value in
controversy sh.all exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by'
jury shall be preserved." This is a suit at commojilaw,.'and'
the valud in controversy- exceeds 'tweniy dollfars. 7he c.on-.
troversy is n0t confined to -the question of title.. The, compensation for. improvements is an'importait pait of"iti aid
if that is to'-be determined at ;common law, it must be sub-'
mitted to a jury.
It has been said That the occupant law of Ohio, 'must, in
conformity" with the '34th section of the"'judicial, act, 'be
regarded as a rule-of decision in the'courts of, the'Unitd
States.
The laws of the states, and the occupant law, like others,
would be so regarded independent of that special-enactment; but the exception contained in that section must be
regarded likewise.- The law, so far as it consists with the
constitution of the United 'States and of the-states of Ohio,.

is a nile of property-, aid of course a rule of decision in the

.526

"SUPREME COWRT.
[Bank d Hamilton us. Dudley's lessee.]

Courts of.the United States; but that rule must be applied
,consistently with thef" Constitution..
Admittifig that the legislathrq of Ohio can give an occupant clkimint a right, to the value of his improvements, and
can-authorize him tc retain. Pesessi6n of' the lufid he has
improved, un'al he'hall haa'e'received that value*; and assquming that they. may also annex donditions to the change
fpossession,'whichi so far as they are constitutional,,must
be- respected :in all *courts ; still . that, legislature cannot
change radically, the mode of proceedirig prescribed for the

cou.rs of the United'States ; or direct those courts,
in a trial
at common law, to appoint comniission~rs'for the decision
of-questions whith E court of commou'law must submit to a

jury..
But this iability of the courts of the Uhited States to
.proceed. in the .inode prescribed by the statute, does not deprive.ihe ,occupant .of the benefit it intended him. -*The
modes of proceeding -which-belon -'to courts of chancery
are adapted to the exec.ution of the law; -and to the equity
side of the court-he may
1pply.
fo- reli6. Sitting in chancery, it can appoint-comm issioners to estimate imprpvements'
as w0ell as-'r9nts and profits, and can enjoin thie execution of
the judgmerjt-at law until'its decree shall be complied with.
If any part of the act be unconstitutional, the provisions of
.that.part may be' disregarded while full effect willbe. given
to-such as are -not-repugnant to the constitution of the United States or of thestate or ta(the ordinance'of 1787. Thequestion. whether apy.of its provisions be of this desaription,.
will proply arise" iq.the suit brought to carry them into

effeek,
We think there isno error in the judgment, and it isaf:firmed with costs.

