JANUARY TERM 1829.

JOHN P. Vx NEss

vs.

A"

?EREz

MAncA nms wiFE, PLAmTIFFS IN
DEFENDAma ix ERROR.

137

ER.o.

PNcARI,

Action on the case against the defendant for-waste, committed by him while tenant
of the plaintif , the owner of the reversionary interest, by pulling down and removing from the demised premises, a dwelling house erected thereon, and
attathed to the freehold. The question raised in the case was, whal fixture's
erected by the tenant during his term'arb movable by him.
The general rure of the common law undoubtedly is, that whatevei is once anncxed to the freehold becomes part of it, and cannot be'afterwards removed,
except by him who is entitled to the inheritance. This rule, however, never
was inflexitle, and without exceptions. It was construed most strictly between
execqtor and heir, in favour of the latter; and niore-liberally between tenant
for life and in tail, and remainderman or ;eversioneri in favour of the former; and
tenant, in fivour of the tenant. A more extensive excbption to thie rule has
been of fixtures erected for the purposes of trade. Fixtures which vere erected to carry on trade and manufactures, were from an early period of the law
allowed to be removed by the tenant, during his term; and.were deemed -personally for many other purposes. [143]
The common law of England ii not to be taken in all respects to be that-of Arerica. Our ancestors brought with them its general principjles, and claimed it
as their :birth right. But they brought'with them, and adopted only that portion which was applicable to'their. situalion. - [144]
It might deserve considerafion', whether, if the rule of the cdmnion law of England which -prohibits the removal of fixtures erected by the tenant for agricultural purpose.s, -ere not previously adopted in a state by some authoritative
practice or adjudication ; it ought to-be assumed by this Court, as a part of the
jurisirudence of such-state, upon the mere footing ofrits existence in the common law.--, [145]
The question whether fixtures erected for the purposes of trade, are or are not
%removableby the tenant, does pot depend upon thefourn or size of the building ;whethir it has a brick foundation or not, or is one ortwo stories high; or
has a brick or other chimney. The sole question is, whether it is designd for
the purposes of tra.de or not. [146]
If-the house were built principally for a dielling house for the family, independently of carrying on a trade, then it wduld doubtless be deemed a Exture falling
under the general rule', and irremovable. Bt if the residence of the family
were merely n accessary for-the more beneficial exercise of te trade, and
with a.view to superior dccommodation.in this particular, then it is within the
exception. [147]
Evely'demise between" landlold and. tenant in respect to matters in which the
parties are Ailnt, may be fairly open to explanationby the general usage and
custom of the country, or of, the distict whefe the land lies. Every person,
under such citcumstances, Is supposed to be conusant of'this custom, and to
cqntract with a tacit reference to it. [148].
A. court cannot be required td give -an instruction to the jury as to the relation,
right and credibility of thd.testimony adduced by the partiesin-a-cause. E149]

VOL. 1.-S

138

SUPREME COURT.
I [Van Ness vs. Pacard.]

ERROR to the circuit.court of the county of Washington,
in the district of Columbia.
The plaintiffs in error instituted their adtion of trespass
on the case, in the c6urt below; to recover damages for the
removal -ofcertain.buildings from a lot of ground in the city'
of Washington, the property of the -plaintiffs; whichl had
been leased to the defendant by the plaintiffs for a term of
years, reser.ing a rent. The'.jhry gave a verdict in favour
of-the defendant.
Upon the -trial of'this causes the plaintiffs gave in evidence
to the jury, an indenture of lease between. them and the defendant, for a lot of ground in the city of Washington for a
term of years, reserving a certain rent,. with -the privilege to
purchase out the fee at a stipulated, sum; and offered evidence to the jury to prove, that-after the defendant had taken
possession of the land described in the lease, he erected
thereon a.bdilding, two stories high in front, with a~cellai
of stone or brick,-and a phW of one story; and thalthe principal,bilding, which 'had-'a brick chimney, restedU pon, this
'1tohe or brick' foundation. That the defendant was. a carpenter by trade, and resided 'in the house from the commencement of his. lease -to bout the period of its expiation,
and.,tht, before the term had 'expired,,he took_ lown and
removed the said hoilse from off the premies..
''The defendant gave6 evidence, that, upon. obtaining-the.
said lease, he .erected the building' with, a view to -carry on
the business of a 'daiiryran, and for the residence of his
family and sarvants engaged in his said business; ,and:-that
the cellar, in which was a spripg, was made-and used exciu'sively- for.a milk cellar; thai in thq upper part, of the house
were kept, and.sclded, and washed, the utensils -ofhis said
business;'and.that.that pirtwas also.occupied as 'a dwelling
for his family'; that-:he wasalso a carpenter, and had tools
and two apprentices in the house,, and a work-bench out of
doors; and -that he worked in:.said house' at.his trade of 4
carpenter; that the house was.an a rough unfinished state,
and made 'partly of. old :materials and t hat he tlso erected
o said lot a stable for, his cows, of plank and"timnbr, fixed'
upon posts fastened into the grouhd; ahd.. that the stable

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Van Ness vs. Pacard.]

was pulled down and-removed at the same time with the
principal building.
Upon this evidence the counsel for the plaintiffs prayed
66 instructions of the c6urt to the jury, that if they sliould
believe-the same to be true, the defendant Was not justified
in removing .the hous- from' the .premises; and, that he -is
liable in this action- to the plaintiffs, for -the value- of the
-house; which instructions the court refusedto give.
"Thedefendant also offered evidence to prove, that a usage
and custom existed in the city of Washington, which authorised a tenant to remove any building. which he might drect
upon leased premises; provided the ,swame -was removedbe-fore the expiration of the term.
Upon this evidence the counsel for the-plaintiffs asked from
the court instructions to "the.jury, that the same was not
competent to establish the fact, that -a gbneral usage- did
exist in the city of Washington, which authotised a tenant
to remove such d house as that which hsis beenerected by
the defendant ;, nor was i competent -for the jury to inter
from the evidence, that such- a usage existed.. -.These instructions Were refused by the court.
The plaintiffs then gave evidence, by-the examination of
a number of persons; who, -s owners of red'property in the
city o'f Washihgton, were 'claimed to know alr that'appertained to it; to show that the usage, under which' the de-'
fendant asserted a right to remove the buildings erected'by
.him, did not exist; and thereupon moved the court to in-'
struct the jury, that upon the evidence, it is not competent
for them to find a usage or custom of the place, by which
"the defen-dant could .be justified-in recovering the house -in
•question; -and that there being no such usage the plaintiffS
.are entitled to -a verdict: for the vane of the house', which
the'defendant pulled down and destroyed :These instrUc- '
iohs were also refised.'
'The plaintiffs by their bill. of-exceptions presented the
whole of these matters for-the cbnsideration of this-Court.
Mr Coxe;' for the plaintiff, contended, that the court.
erred in giving and refusing the instructions. - The-question,

140

SUPREME COURT.
IVan Ness vs. Pacard.]

in this case is one of great interest to the owners of property
in the city of Washington. -The evidence offered by the
defendant was insufficient to establish*- usage; and, if upon
such testimony; a usage can be made out'there is no safety
to any owner of property. To establish a usage the.-evidence
must be clear and certain, and uncontradict-ed; and the
court should take care to apply this principle whenever a
usage is claimed; as when it has been estabuished it becomes
the law of all cases under similar circumstances. The principles of law.relative to usage are settled in 1 Gallisoms
RP7i. 444. Collings & Co. vs. Hope, S Wfash. Cir. Court
Rep. 149.
It cannot be contended that the building could be recovered by the defendant, upon the principles which courts
have established in favour cf trade. No case can be found,
in which a building fixed to, the freehold-was allowed to be
taken away. All the adjudgea cases go to the extent of
permitting instruments and machinery used for the purposes
of trade to be carried away, but nQthing more. The freehold
is never to be injured, and must always be left in the condition it was when the lease commenced. Cited 3 East, 35.
Woodfall's Landlord §- Tenant, 223. This building was
erected for the accommodation of, the family of the defendant. It could not therefore be considered as required for
-the trade of the dfendant; nor was it appropriated to a
particular tade; the defendant being a carpenter, and alho
employing himself invending milk. Mr Barrett and Mr Jones, for the defendant, argued,
1. That independent of the benefif from the usage, which
whs set up asmatter of defence; the buildings removed from
the premises, vWere erected and used by the tenant for the
purposes'of his trade, and he had therefore a right to remove
them under the general law of landlord.
2. The usage of the city of Washington which was fully
proved, recognizes the right of tenants to remove buildings
-put up by them, on lots which before the lease were in an
unimproved state.
3. The instructions given- by the court, and-their refusal

JANUARY TERMI

1829;

[Van Ness vs. Padaid.]

to instruct the jury as required by-the counsel for the-plaintiffs were correet.
' In support of the'fi.rst point, were cited- I H. B1. 258. 2
East, 88. Elwes vs. Maw, 3.E.ast, 31. 7 Johns. 227. 20
Johns. 30.
In the English cases a distinction is taken between fixtures on buildings for .agricultural purposes and those foi
trade.. This distinction upon a fair view of those cases cannot.
be sustained. The%principles which have always been.applied in those cases to trade, may be as well applied to
agriculture." In the city of Washington, where there is and
for a long" period will be a large space upon which no buildings will, be placed, the application of more liberal principles -than those found in' th4 English cases 'is proper and
necessary. Cited Woodfa4Ws Landlord*y Tennt, 224. Butler's .Nz8i Prius'34.2. 3. The court properly submitted the
question of usage to the jury. It was 'regularly -a question
for them. Had the court proscribed 'a rule which would
have'taken from the jury"the question of usage, it would
have been error; but here whether the usage was ,proved
was submitted and correctly.
.
Mr Justice STORY deliveied he opinion ot the Court.
This is 'a writ of error to the circuit court of the district
of Columbia, sitting for the dounty of Washington.
'The original' was an action on the case, brought by thie
plaintiffs in error against"the defendant for waste committed'
by him, while tenant of the plaintiffs, to their reversionary
interest, by pulling down and removing from the demised
premises a messuage or dwelling house erected thereon and
attached to the freehold. The" cause was tried upon the
general issue, and a verdict found for the defendant, upon
which a- judgment passed in his favour; and the object 'of
the present Writ of error is to revise that judgmeit.
By the hill of' exceptions, filed' at the trial, it appeared.
that the plaintiffs in 1820 demised to te defcndant, for
s.even years, a vacant lot ili the city of Washington. at the
yearly renat of $112'50 cents, with a clause in the lease that
the'defendant should have c right to Purchase the same at aiy-

SUPREME COURT..
F'Va Ness vs. Pacard.]

time during the term, for $1875..

Afte- the defendant had

taken possession of the lot, he erected -thereon, a wooden
dwelling house, two stories high in front, with a shed of one
story, a. cellar' of stone or brick foundation and a brick
chimney. The defendant and his family dwefl, in the house
from -its erection until near the expiration of the lease,- when
he took the same down and removed all the materials from
ihe tot. The defendant was a carpehter by trade; and he
gave evidence, that upon. obtaining the lease he erected- the
building above mentioned, with a view to carry on the bu.
ainess of a dairy man, and. foithe residence of his family
and servants- engaged in his .said business; and that the
cellar, in which there was a spring, was made and exclusively
used for amilk cellar, in which the utensils of his said bdsiness were kept dnd scalded, and washed and used; and
that fed was kept in the upper part of the house',-which
was --also occupied as a dwelling .for his family. That the
defendant had his tools as a carpenter, and two apprentices
in the house, and a work-bench out of doors; and car.penter's work was done in the house, which was in a rough
unfinished state and made partly of old materials. That he
also erected on, the lot a stable for his cows of plank and
timber fixed- upon 'posts -fastened into the ground, which
stable he -removed with thd house before, the expiration of
his lease.
Upon this evidence, the. counsel for the plaintiffs prayed
for an instruction, that if the- jury should believe -the same
to.-be true, the defendant was not justified in removing the
said house from the premises; and that he was liable to the
plaintiffs in this action. -This instruction the court refused
to give; and the refusal constitutes his first exception.
The defendant farther offere&a-, evidence to prove, that a
usage and custom existed in tlie city f Washington, which
authorised- a tenant to remove any buildihgvWhiceh he mighterect upon Tented -premises,-.provialedhe did it -before the
*expirpationc of the term. The plaintiffs objected to this evidence; -but -the court admitted it. This constitutes the se,
cond excepti6.
Testimony'was then introduced on this point, and after
-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
.[Van Ness vs. Pacard.]

the examifiation -of the witnesses for the defendant, the
plaintiffs prayed the court to instrupt the jury that the evirdeuce was nbt competent to establish the fact, that a geneal usage had existed or-did exist in the city of Washing.,
ton,. which authorised a tenant. to remove such a :house as
that erected by the tenant in this case; nor was it competent for the jury to infer from the said evidence, thatsuch a
usage haq existed. The court refused to give this -instruction, and this constitutes the third exception.
The counsel for the plaintiffs then introduced witnesses
to disprove the usage; and after their testimony was-given,
he prayed the court to instruct the jury, that-upon the evidence given as aforesaid in this case, it is not competent
for .them .to" find 'a usage or custom of the place by which
•the defendant could be justified in removing the house in,
question; and there being no such usage, the plaintiffs are
entitled to a verdict for the value of the house-which the
difendat pulled down and destroyed. The court was divided- and did not give the instruction so prayed.;. and tfis
constitutes the fourth exception.
The. first eieption raises the important question, what fixtures erected-by a tenant during his term, are removable by
him .
The general rule of the -common law certainly is, that
whatever is once annexed to the freehold becomes pirt of
. it, and cannot afterwards be removed, except by him who is
.entitled to the inheritance. The rule, however, never was,
at least. as. far back as we can trace it in .the books, inflexible and without exceptions. It was construed most strictly
between executor and heir in favour of the, latter; more
liberally befween tenant - for life or in tail, and remainder
maxi or reversioner, in favour of the former; and with much
greater latitude between landlord and tenant, in favour of the
tenant. But an' exception- 'of a much broader cast, and
whose origin may he traced almost as high as .the rule itself,
is of fixtures.erected for the'purposes-of trade. Upon principles- of public policy, and- to encourage trade and manufactures, fixtures which were erected to carry on such busi-ness, were alloived to be removed by the tenant during his

-

144

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness ,vs, Pacard.]

term, and. were deemed personalty for many other purposes.
The principal cases are collected and reviewed by Lord
Ellenborough in delivering the opinion of the court in
Elwes vs. Maw, 3 Eat'sR.38; and it seems unnecessary
to do more than to refer to that case for a full summary of
the general doctrine and its admitted exceptions in -England.
The court there decided, that in the dase of landlord and
tenant, there had been no.relaxation of the genieral rule in
cases of erections, solely for agricultura purposes, however
beneficial or important they might be as improvements of
,the estate. Being once annexed to the freehold by the
tena .nt, they became a part of the realty, and could never
afterwards be severed by the tenant. The distinction is
certainly a nice one between fixtures, for the purposes of.
trade,'and fixtures for 'agricultural purposes; at least in
those cases, where -the sale of the produce constifutes the
principal objec.t of the tenant, and the erections are for the
purpose -ofsuch a beneficial enjoyment of the estate. But
that point isnot now before us; and it is unnecessary to
consider what the true doctrine is or .ought to. be on this
subject. .However well settled it may now be in England,
it cannot escape remark, that learned.-judges at different
periods in'that country, have entertained different opinions
upon it, down to theo very date of the. decision in Elwes vs.
"Maw,.3 East's Rt 38.
The common law of England is not to be taken in all respects to be that of America. Our ancestors brought with
them its-general principles, and claimed it as their. birthright; but they brought with them and adopted only that
portion which was applicable. to their situation. There could
be little or no reason for doubting that the general doctrine
as to things annexed to the freehold, so far as it respects
heirs an4 executors, was adopted by them. The question
could arise only betw"een different claimants-under the same
ancestor, and no general'policy could be subserved, by withdrawing from the heir those things which his ancestor had
chosen to leave annexed to the inheritance. But, between
landlord and tenant, it is-not so clear-that the rigid rule of
the common law, at least as it 4s expounded in 3 East, 38,

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Van Ness vs. Paeard.]

was so applicable to theirsituation, as to give rise to necessary presumption in its favour. The country was a wildeiness,'and the universal policy was to procure its cultivation
and improvement. 'The owner of the soil as well as the public,. had every motive to encourage the tenant tb devote himself to agriculture, and .to favour auw erections which should
aid this result; yet, in the comparative poverty of the country,.what tenant could afford o erect fixtures -of much- expense or value, if he was to lose his whole interest therein
by the very.'act of erection. "His cabin or log-hut, however
necessary for any improvement of the soil; would cease to be.
his the moment, it was finished. It niight, therefore, deserve
consideration, whether,"in case the doctrine were not preiioUsly adopted in a state by some authorithtive practice or
adjudication,; it ought to be assumed' by this Court as a part
of the jurisprudence of such state, upon the mere footing of
its existence in the common law. -At present, it is unnecessaiy to say more, thar that we give no opinion on this question. 'The cas6 which has been argued at the bar, may well
be disposed. .f withouf any discussion of.it.
It -hsbeen already stated that the exception of buildings
and other'fixtures, for the purpose of carrying on a trade'or
manufacture, is of iery ancient date, and was recognised almost as early as the rule itself. The very point was decided
in 20 Henry VII. 13, a. and b., where it was laid down,that if a lessee fdr years made a furnace for his advantage,
or a dyer made his vats oi vessels to occupy his occupation,
during the term, he may afterards remove them. That
doctrin6 was recognised by lord Holt,in Poole's-case,, 1 Salk.
369, in favour 6f a soap-boiler who was tenant fbr years.
He -held that the party might well remove -the vats he set zip
in ielation'to trade; and that he might do it by the common
law, (and not by .virtue of any'custom) in favour of f ade,
and to entourage iuustry. In Lawtoh vs. Lawt6ji, 3 .Atk.'
R. 13, the sam"d doctrine, was held in the.case of a fire.engine, set up to work a colliery by a tenant for life. Lord
Hardwicke there said, that since the time of Henry the seventh, the general ground th e courts have gone. upon of relaxihg the strict construction of law is,. that it is- for the
VoL. II.-T

SUPREME COURT.
[Van Ness vs. Pacntd.]

benefit ofthe public, to encourage tenants for life to do wha
is advantaggous to the estate during the term. He added,
.one reasn which weighs with me is, its being. a mixed
oane, between enjoying the profits of the land, and cnrrying
ronsidering it in this light, it
on a speciesaof trade; and in
comes very near the instances in brewho uses, &c.' of 'fiirnaces~
and coppers." Thb case too ofa-eider mill, between the eyecutor and heir, &c. is extremely strong, for hough cidex is
a part of the profits 6f the real estate,: yet, it was held by
lord chief baron Comyns, a very able common lawyer, that
the cider mill was personal estate, notwithstanding, and thai
it should go to the executor. "It does not differit, in nly
opinion, whether the.shed be made of brick or wood, for it is
only intended to cover it from the weather and other inconveniences." In Penton vs. Robart, 2 .East, 88, it was further decided that a tenant might remove his fiftures for
trade, even after the expiration of his term, if he yet remained in possession; and lord Kenyon recognised the- doctrine
.in its most liberal extent.
It has 'been suggested at the bar; that this exception in
,favour of trade has nev-er been applied to cases like that before the Court, where a large house has beeir built and uted
in part as a family residence. But the quesitign, whether
removable or not, does.not depend upon the form or size of
the building, ,whether it has a brick foundation or not, or is
one oi two stories high, or hfi a brick or other chimney.
The sole question is, whether it is -designed for purposes of
.trade or not. A tenant may erect a large as well as a small
messuage, or a-soap boilery of one or two stories high, and
on whatever foundations he nifty choose. In Lawton v8
Lawton, 3 '.tk. R. 13, lord Hardwicke said, (as we have
- already seen) that it made no difference whether the shed of
the engine be rihade of brick or stone. In Penton vs. Robart, 2 East's R. 68, 'the building had a brick foundation, let
into the ground, with a chimney belonging to-it, upon which
there was a superstructure of wood.. Yet the court thought
the building removable. In Elwes vs. Maw, 3 East'sR. 37,
-lord. Ellenborough 'expressly stat4, that thera was no difference between the building coi~ring any fixed engine,

JANUARY TERM -1829.
[Van Nesi vs. Pacard.]

utensils, and the-latter. The only point is, vhether it is iccessary-to earryihg on 'the trade or not. 'If bona fide intended for this puipase, it falls within the exception -in favour"of
trade." The case of the Dutch barns, before -lord Kenyon(d),
is to the same effec.t,
'Then as to the residence of the family in the house, this
.resolves itself into the )ame consideiation. If the:house
were built principally for 'a dwelling house for the family,
independently of carrying on the trade, then it would doubtless be'deemed a fixture, falling un'der the general rule,,an
inmovable. But if the residence of the family were merely
an accessoryY for tie more beneficial exercise of the trade;
and with a view to stiperior accommodation ii this particular, then it is within the exception. There are many trades
which can'not be afried on welL-wjthout the presence of mihy
persons by'night as well as by day. It-is so in some vialuable manufictories. It is not unusual for persons employed
inl.-1iakery tos-leep -inthe same building.' Now what-was
the evidence in the present case. It .was,."that the defendant erected the building before mentioned, Wiitl a view to
cary oni the sine . of a dairj man, andfor the residence
of hifamnly.and servants e4gaged in that business." The
.residence of the faniily was then auxiliary to the dairy; it was
fbr'the accommodation and"beneficiatl operations-6f this trade.
* 'Surely, it cannot be' doub.ted5 ihat ii a businidss pf this
naturd,-tle immei
,preieneo the family and servats,
Was, orrhight.b'e oi(very greet utflityand 'impprtand'e. , The
defendant was also A carpeiiter, and'carried 'on his business,
%ssuch, in th6,sane 'building. It is nO:bjection that be. carried on tvo tradesintead of:on. - There is not the.slightiast
evidence- of this on6 being a mere' dovek or evasion to c.nceal another,'whidh- Was*thd plincipal .eiign ; and, unle.s
we were prepared to 'saj (wbich we"are io. "that-the -mere
fact that the htise 'Wts used for'a dwelling Iduse,.'a well is
for a trade, supberiedid thd'exception in favour of the-latter,
there is no ground to declare that the tenant -was not entitled to-remoie it. At 'mot, it would be deemed only a mixed
(a) Dean vs. Allaley, 3 Esp. Rei. )1! Woo4 tis Landlord 4-"Tenaprt 219.

SUPREME COURT.
[Vdn Ness vs. Pacard.]

case, nualogous in principle to those before lord chief baron Comyns, and lord Hhrdwicke and therefore en~itled to
the benefit of the exception. The case of Holmes vs. Tremper, 20 Johns. R. 29, proceeds upon principles equally liberal.; and it is quite certain that the supreme court of New
York, were not prepared at that time to adopt the doctrine
of Elwes vs; Maw, in respect to erections for agricultdral
purposes. In 'our ojinidn, the circuit court was right in refusirg the first instruction;
The second exception proceeds upon the ground that it
was 'not compeieift to establish a usage add custom in the
city of Washington for tenants -to make such remoyals of
buildings during their term. We can perceive. no objection
to such proof. Every demise between landlord and tenant
in respect to matters in which the parties are silent, may be
fairly 9pen'to explaration by the general.usage and"custom
of the country or of the' district where the land lies. Every
person under such circumstan~es is supposed to fe conusant
of tht custom, and to contract with a tacit reference to it.
Cases of this sort are familiar in the booksa; as for instance,
to prove the right of a tenant to an away-going crop(a).
In the very class of cases now, before the Court the custom
of the country has been, admitted to decide the right of the
tenant to remoie fixtuves(b). The case before lord chief
justice Treby turned upon that point(c).
The third exception turns upon the consideration,. whether
the parol testimony was cobipetent to establish such a usage
ind custom. Competent it certainly was, if by competent is
meant, that 'it was admissible to go to the jury. Whether it
was such as ought to have satisfied their minds on the matter
of fact was solely for their consideration; opqn indeed to
such commentary and observation as the' court-might think
proper in its discretion to lay before them for their aid and
guidance. We cannot say that they were n6t at liberty, by
the principles of law, to infer from the evidence the exist-.
ence of the usage. The evidence might be somewhat loose
(a) 2 Starkie on Etvidance, Part IV. p. 458.
(b) WVoodfall's Landlord 4"Tenant, 218.
fe) Buller'sjvmWi Prius,34.

JANUARY. TERM 1829,
[Van ,Ness vs. Pacard.]

and indeterminate, and so be urged with more or less effect
upon their judgment; but in a legal sense it was within
their. own province to weigh it as proof or as usage.
The last exception professes to call upon the court to
institute a comparison between the testimony introduced by
the plaintiff and that introduced by the defendant against
and for the usage. It requires from the court a decision
upon its relative weight and ckedibility, which the court
were not justified in -giving to the jury in the shape of a
positive instruction.
Upon the whole in our judgment there is no error in the
jddgment of the circuit court; and it is affirmed with costs.

This cause came on to be .heard. on a transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States.for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,
it is the opinion of this Court, that there is no error in the
judgment of the said'circuit court. Whereupon it is considered, ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgmefit of the said circuit court inthis cause, be,. and the same
is hereby affirmed with costs.

