JANUARY TERM 1829.

GRoRGE BrAcH, PLATwF IN ERROR Vs. JONATHAN V=ES ET AL.
.DEFENDANT

N ERROR.,

This being a suit upon'a local statute, giving a particular remedy, in the nature
of a foreign attachmeat,-gamst garnishees, who possess goods, effects, ot credits of the'principal debtoi; the decisions Whichuhave been made on the construction of that statute by the state edurt of Massaihusetts,, are entiiled'to
great respect; *and ought, in conformity to the uniform practice of this Court,
to govern its'decisions: [678]
Where under a voiuntdry assign'naent of an insolventdebtor, the proceeds of all
1he
property-received by the assignees under the assignment are insufficient to pay
theamountof thejust debts and dividends due to the assigneesj the established
doctrine in Missachusetts is, that the assignees cannot be holden as trustees of
the debtor, to the cre4itok who is the plaintiff in: an attachment, so as to be
chargeable to him '.1 the suit. 'Even-if the assignment were held to be constructively fraudulent in point of law, thy would be entitled to retaixr their
- own bona fide debts; for as to those, they stand upon equal grounds With any
other creditors. This is understood to be the clear result of th cases decided
in Massachusetts. [6783

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States, for the
district of Massachusetts.
. The. original process in this case was founded- on the
sta-'
tute df Massachusettsi passed 28th of Febtuary 1.795, entitled
"an act to enable creditors-to receive their just demands out
.ofthe goods' effects, and credits of their, debtors; when'the
same cannot :be attacheil by the ordinary procbss of law."
In said- process it is alleged that'Liud and Hunt, being
indeted to.George Beach, as-set" forth in the process, refused, to pay the sarh¢-, to his damage -$4000.;-:arid, if the
process

it is also .alleged -that -Loud. and -Hunt..had hot
in
their'-,own. hands and possesgion., goods or estate to the
value of $4000, -but had -en1-muted and depQsit6d" in.-the
hands of said defendants, goods; effects and credits to the
v.alue; and the said defendants were summoned -to show
cause why execution to be issued on. such juidgment- as
George Beach .might recover" in' Said- suit-against Loud
and Hunt, should not iskue against-their goods, efflicts and
'credits in'the hands and possession of thesedefendant§. The
process was--dated the ist -day- -. ovember 1826; sbrvice

,SUPREME COURT.
[Beach vs. Viles 'et al.]

v4as made 6n the 23d of-the game ionth, and .ifwas entered at
the May: term of the circuit court"of the United States, inBoston, in, 1827.7
-The def ndnts,.the suppqsed: trustees, appeared, and severally answered-under oath,-as set forth in the record: From
their'answerg it appears, that, on the 15th day"of December
1825, an'indanture of assignment waS made, which is -also
set. forth ih .the record,, in which' Loud and -Hunt' were
.parties of the.fi:st part; Nathan .Viles, Iienry'Atkins and
Dnil Holbiook, preferredcreditors, were. parties of the second'part; and sundry other. persons creditors of Loud,
and Hunt, 'who might .execite -the iridenture within six
months from i9 daie, we.iparties.,of ihe third part.
m
By this indentureLoud 'and lluht assigned: to-the defendants.certain real and.jpersonal properiy, effects and demandsj
in trust, to'sell.and collect the-same, and ,after defraying all
"6xpenses, first, to- pay the. parties -of .the s6cond part all*
sunms due them, yespectively, and dlll sums foi-which they
'were liable on account of Loud and Hunt, -as indors'ers
or otherwis6; sdcond,'Xo pay the -iesidue to*sidch creditors
mentioned in'the schedule theretoannexed, fs should become
parties, in proportion to their demandsj by an equal-rate per
,dollar; tird ; to., pay over'-the sudrplus, if any, and also the
dividend which would hbave be.en'payable to any creditor, if
hehad not neglecte4d to become a party thereto, to Loud
and Hunt.
There is a clausein -thb-indenture, providing.for'adding to
and perfecting the schedules, to carry into effect the. intentidns of the parties4 a general "powerto receive and colle~tj
and a lause accepting the propexty.assigned in- full'; and
-

each assignee is to. be answerable,for, his'own" acts only.
The'nominal 'amount or .estimat6 of the propertk assigned

exceeded the ampunt of debts an4-liabilities ofthe'assigieis;
but by reason -6f-losses"on property then in handsof-certain

consignees, and bad debts, the.', produce thereof fell much
short-odit.
-the just claims' bf thse.creditors who 'became parties to
the indenture a~dording to its terms, and before the process
in this case was serveil amount to aboqt $20,06. The par-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Beach vs. Viles et al.]' ,

ties of the first and seeorxd part, and nearly all those of the
third part; signed -and sealed the indenture on' the day of its.
date, and'all who are now.parties became so within the term
of six 'months, therein prescribed. -The assignees took pos-'
sessionof the property assigned.on the same 15th ofDecembeX,
,and fitted and prepared the same, (a large -portion 'of which
consisted of materials in hands, of manufictures in .an unfinished state) for sale." They also collected the demands; as
far as practicable, and realized in money from the whole peisonal property and effects, including the sums .expended in
coq~pleting and preparing for sale, the sum-of,$8309 28 cents.
They also advertised the real. estate; but were prevented
from effecting a sale by reason of certain attachments thereon.
This real estate they estimate to be worth $2000, which cannot be reached Gy the trustee process. It also appears'from
the answers, that the consideration for the said assignment
was truly, as. therein expressed, for sums jusdy due, from
Loud and Hunt, to the said defendants and other credi'tors and the liabilities before thidt time incurred by Holbrook for Loud and Hunt, to a.greater amonot than the.
whole value of the. property so .assigned; that t.he whole
.proceeds of the said property and effects had actually
been
applied in part discharge 6f the said dues and liabilities' bef-re the service of the plaintiff's process, and in -pursuan'ce
of the 'provisions of said 'indenture; excepting the' sum of
$805 44 cents, in the hands o'f Viles and Atkins; which last
-sum, they'held to 'be appropriated according to said trust,'
and that rio farthef sums would probably ever, be realized
therefrom. That the suims' necessarily expended'by the assignees, in and abbuit the premises, amounted to $1626 57
cents, that the assignment was made bonafide, and withbut"
any intent to defraud,' delay or hinderany of the creditors of
Loud and Rint from recovering theirdebts.
And they further, declared" that. the defendants had not
at the time of.the service of the -plaintiff's writ upon them
any goods, effects or" credits in their hands oi possession
belonging to Loud. and 'Hunt or -either of them. It -also
appears -from- said answers that .Holbrook was prfiectly
solvent in his own affairs, and. free froin debt, excepting as

678.

SUPREME COURT.
[Beach'vs. Viles'et al.]

,the surety of Loud and Hunt,- and that the assignment
.vas expected to prevent-his becoming insolvent on-their account.
Tle question before the circuit court was, whether the
defendants, upon their said answers i&nd disclosures, should
be charged as the trustees of said Loud and Hunt, or dipcharged.
The circuit court having intimated that tils case fell within the.principle of the decisions of the supreme judicial court
of Massachusetts, and pgartidulaily the base of Andrews vs.
Ludlow et al. 5 Fick. Rep. 28, the counsel for the plaintiff
-declined. arguing the case; and judgment was rendered, that
the supposed .trustees be severally discharged odi their answers. -The plaintiff then sued. out his writ of error. to have
*said judgment reversed..
The ease was argued by Mr Webster, for the plainiiff in
error ,Mr D. A. Simmbns for the defendants.
Mr Justice STORY' d4l0yeie the- opinion of the Cburt.
After stating the facts, he'proceeded as follows:
Thepresent being a' suit upon a local statute, giving a
,particular remedy in the nature of a foreign attachment
against garnishees, who possess goods, effects or 'redits of
the principal debtor,. the decisions which have been made.
upon the construction of that statute~by the state courts,. are,
entitled to great respect; and ought in conformity to the uniforni practice'of this Court to govern our own, decisions.
-This consideration saveg us from the necessity of discussing
many of the-questions which have been so elaborately aigu~d
*at the bar. If -we were called'upon to decide them upon
.general principles- applicable to conveyances, which are assailed as beiiig in fraud of creditors;' wd should have much
difficufty in arriving at a conclusion upon some of the points,
and-should require further time for deliberation. But we
are'of-opipion, that the case may be finally disposed ofupon
a single ground, which has received the sanction of the highest state court of Massachusetts. It is this. It appears from.
,,the facts, that the -proceeds of all the property, received by
the assignees under this assignment, are insufficient .to pay

JANUARY- TERM 1829.

679

[Beach)vs.-Viles et al.

the'amount ot the just debts and demands due, bona fide, to
the assignees. Under such circumstances, the established
doctrine.in Massachusetts is, that the assignees cannot be
holden as.trustees of the debtor under this proces4, so as to
be chargeable to the creditor, who is plaintiff in the suit.
Even if the assignment were 'held -to be constructively
fraudulent, jn poifit of law, they would.be entitled to retain
.for their own bona fide debts; for as to these, they stand
upon equal grounds with any other creditors. This is understood to be the clear result of the cases dtecided in Massachusetts; and it therefore .becomes unnecessary -to 'go into
the more extensive inquiries presented by the arguments at
the bar.
Upon this ground we are all of opiiion, that the judgment of the circuit court ought to be affirmed *ith costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the -transcript of the
redord from the "circuit court of the United States for the
distriot of Massachusetts, -and was argued by. cou*nsel; on
consideration whereof, it is considered, ordered and adjudg.ed by this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court
in this cause be and. the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

