JANUARY TERM1829.

Emosa,

SmTrH, .MAC
N, L FOXALL,
AND HoT
APPELLANTS w. CATHA~nE
APPELLEE.

ENrmIsH, SMTH, M RALL, -oFPXAN,.
M'KENNEY AND -OTHERS,
A ?,PELAl.n s . CATiIUnmE FoxALI, ArPnimm..
A marriage 'ettlement provided that the trustees, after the death of tha husband,
•shou]al stand, possessed of a bond .xecuted to them by the husband,. and of
the sum i" $37,038 fobe received by them; upon trust to place out the samie
.when it shall come into their hands, :at. interest, on freehold -securities, ot invest it, or any part ;f it, -in the" purchase of stock of the United States. of
North Anierica, or bank stock there; tvith the approbation of-the- ife; and
'o call "iriSand 'replace thi same, and reinvest the same,. and the produce
thereof; from time to time, upon or in such.secuiities, or stock, with the ap.robdiioa of the wife.
ft is'not an uireasonable interpretation to-say,
at the wife who survived the
hisband,.was-to have i cpntrollilig. agency, witbin'the limithtion prescribed by
contract. She has not'an arbitrary and,unlimited discretion.-' .The Invest.
ment -is restricted (6-three ojjects :'.freehld sectliities,.United 'States stock,
or bank, stock: atpd the trustees are not authorised to mnake any Qther' inj
"vestment. "The trustee's are bound-to make the -investment id any one of the
funds mentibned, which the wife. might requestor direct.
The husband by his will confirmed the marige settlement, and he furtber.de.clared, " that if thb sum of $37,038 secured.to be paid.to the trustees shold
at any time be found insufficient to',raise and bring into'the hands of -the
trustees the clear annual -sum of .2,222.22, the annuity ir-eur~d to lie paid to
. his wife, iY. the settlefieiit,-then the trustees of his .wil shall,, from time to
.timg, transfer to themselves,'as trustees of the settremint, ouof thd'residuutfi
of his estate-, such sum or sins of money as may, frour-time to time, be found
necessarft6 make up any.-deficiency there- mayh*ppen, lp be -between- the
current amoutii of the interest and prodi'ce of the'princinal .um, and -the
amount of the'annuity; 'so that, in nso event, -less than: V2,222.22 shall be
,Aised afinuzilly for his wife, or f6r ber benefit -in the*TUitd .Stat~s'.
Tie persoual ebtaet of the husband,-exclusive ofthesum-plae6d in the hands of
the. trlistees of the. annuity, was. so ibivested .as to prduce six per centum* per.'annum; aud the direction of the wifq. to keep nvested in.sx- per cent.
- stock.of the Unitedc States the $7'038,
prod'uted a deficiency in,the annuity,
which she disiwed to haVe made up from thh residuary estate.' The wife -has
ntright to claim this'deficiency to be so made up..
There is no'd6ubt, but -that under the general.prayer 'in a bill in'ehancer ' for
general relief,.Aoher vlief'may be granted, than'that which is' particulary
prayed fdr ; 't: such relief must e reeabW-to the caie-niade by the bill. "
-the

APPEAJI" froth the .cirbdit court of -thecounty 4'f Washing'ton.

596

SUPRiEME COURT.
[English and others vs. Foxall.]

The appellee in these -cases, is the iidow of Henry Fxall: 'and ihe appellants in the first case, are the trhstees
named in a marriage:settlement,, executer by Henry Foxall
at the' time'of his marriage.with the appellee;' and'in the
secohd, they are.the trustees, dxecutors and legatees named
in the will.
On the marriage of Henry Foxall with the appell'ee, in
England int181, a contract was -entered. into for an annual
income of £500 sterjing, or -$2,222.2, for the life of-Mrs
Foxall; to commence at his death;:.for her joiture, and in
lieu of her dower; 'and, on the decdase of Mi Foxall; . the
sum of $37,038, was then to be. iaised and paid to'the trustees, for the purpose of gecuring thiesame.
In the settlement it is declared, that'. upon, the treaty for
the 'marriage, .it was agreed- between the parties thereto,
Henry Foxall and Catharine Holland; that should' she-survive him, he would provide and, settje on her an annual income of 4500 sterling, equal to.$2,2,22 2"cnt, in the nature of a join'ture for life, and in bar of dower; that he9should
devis6 to her Iihs :mssuage in Georgetown, and assign .her
his furnituve and carriage for life, in in'crease of her jointure;
that her property, which 'was. wholly personal, should'ies in
her, but that ll -future property should be at her disposal,a's if she-'were A'-femme sole;, ahd that the children of the
marriage. as' well as :a present daughter of Henry Foxall,
should be dependent on him foe support. The marriage settlement also recites,-.that.in part performance of the.'same,
Henry Foxall had made hig-bond in. the penalty of $74,116,
to ihe.trustees; to be void on'pa'yment-by his executors, within six months from bis death, of'$7T,038, with interest*at six
per cent.
It is then declaret by .the deed, ihat in case the appellee
should survive said Henry Foxall, -the' said trustees sho'uld
stand poqsessed of said bond, and said $37,038 to be receiv-.
ed by them"' upon trust to place out the same, .when it shall
come into their hand.s, at. interest, on freehold securities, or
'invest it, or any part 'of it, in- the purchase qf stock
of the
Uhited, States 'of North Americai or -bank stock there, -with
the approbation 'of said Catharine6. Holland,' a tdto call in

JADUARY TERM, 1829.
[English and othersvs. Foxalj

and'replace .and reinvest thesame, and thie. produce thereof,
from time to time; upon or in such securities 'or stock, with
the appropationof said CatharineHolland;-and 'to pay the
interest and dividends of. the said su, securities .6stocks
from time to time as the same- should be received,. to hdr
the igid Catharirre Holland or her.assigns, 'or permit her or
them. fo receive such interest or- dividends for her.life, for
her sepdrate use," &c... Aod .4fter,her death upo'n trust to
pay, tiansfer, and assign said. $37,O38,.and the securities or.
should be.placed.out or invested,
stocks in or upon which it.
.and. the, dividends, &c. unto the executors or -assigns of the
said Henry roxall.
".~
r Foxhll died in England in 1823, having left a will dated..
the: 12th of April ,1823. The first' clause in the' will is in
these words.: "First; I do hereby ratify andcoifirm in-everyrespect the settlement made upon my marriag e with my dearwife .Catharine, and -do d;rect.'the -provisions.' and .ttrusts of.
the, same, and the conditionof the bond enhtered into by
me upon my said.marriage, to :be faitbfull.perfornied'and'
observed:" and' afterwards, "I do- farther direct, -that if
the stdM off *37,038,- secured, to -be. paid to the. trusteds of
said settlement, 'should, at'any time, and from time.to time;be found* insuffiient to raiso, within, these United States,
and bring. into th hands. of.tlie said-trustees of -said settlement there,. the clear- annual sum. of $2,222 22 "cents,! the"
annuity secured to be paid to my said wife by. the said settldmeAt; then, and in such case, the trusfees- of this my will.
do and 'shall, .from time to time,ransfer;to themseves,' as
trustees.ofsaid settlement, out of the residuum.of my estate,skuch aunt. or' sums.Qf money, as may from time to time be.
,found'necessary to' make Ud..any deficiency there may happen tobe' betweenf the-curient -amotnt, of~the interest and
produce'of'said princi pal'sum, and the: amount of said annuity, so as. that, in no 'event,, less -,thin the,' said sum.-6f
.$2,222 t2 cents shall, be.anually raised for my said wife, or
for hqr benefit-within'the United States,"'
He also.gives herover, and- above the'provisions' made fbr
her benefit. by said' settlkmentj a"ilegacy of -$pO; the

"598"

'SUPREME COURT.
tEngfish and others vs. Foxall.]

plate, "4c. purchased sincelthe marriage, and all his servants.
U& then 'gives .the $37,038, "stipulated .to be raised and
paid to the trustees .of his marriage settlement," after the
death 'of his said wifei "to the children of the marriage abolutely;" and if none, directs it after the death of his wife
to-.sink into the residuum of his -estate.
The will contaified a proviso, that any depreciation in the
value of his property, should be borne equally by all his
legatees,'" his wife, and any .child or children fie might-have
bj' her, excepted."
Hoffman, Smith, M'Call ,ano. M'Kenney were appointed
executors of the will. '-There, were no children of the -marriage, and but one daughter, Mrs M'Kenney, by a former
wife. The estimate placed byMr Foxall upon his property,
at the time of his- decease was. $270,000. .In December
1'627, the trustees valued 'the real -estate at $70,000, and the
personalty at 88,000.
"Atthe' decease of Mr'Foxall in 1823, 32,645, of six per
'cent stock of.the United States, stood in his name.; and at
that time the ggvernment stocks were 'as much above par, as
they were when this bill was flied. . Mi Foxall was, at that
time, well acquainted with the price of government stocks,
'and of the stock's of the local'banks, the latter of which it
was in e6idence, could: have been purchased'at that time at
itinety-Rix per cent.
On the 1-7th 'f July 1824, Mrs Foxall being then inEngland.ihe executors addressed the following letter to her:
i' The executors of yoar late husband are desirous of paying over to the trusteeg of the marriage settlement, the sum
of .37,038, accordingtO the directions in the will. It is
deemed 'ndcessary that you should' give instructions to the
trustees named in the marriage settlement, before they.can
feel themselves authorised to invest, the money. You will
please to communicate, at as early a date as -convenient,
your wishes on this subject."
And on-the same day, the trustees addrbssed the following.
".The executors ot your late' husband, ' the Rev. .Henry

JANUARY TERM .18M

599

[English and others vs.Foxall.]

Foxall,' are r.e-d, io'pay over to. us, the trustees named-.in
the, marriage. settlement, the sum of -37,038, for the purpose
of providing the annuity secured -to you,- in said settlemetnt.
In saiid settlemefit it is stipulated, that we are to place it.
out ' at interest on 'freehold secuxity, or invest it- or any part.
of it in the purchase of stock of the United- States of North
America, or bank stock, there, withi the a pprobation of Mrs
Foxall.' We are therefore 'compelled to -wait for your instructions. .The will, you will doubtless have perceived;has,
made provision, that in case the, said fund of $37,038 should
not produce in interest, the annual payment to be made to yo'i
of $2,222 22'cents, there shall be provided, from his estates
whatever may. be deficient,-so that.,in no case shall 'you re-:
ceive a less amount."'It is. presumed, therefore, you will give' the- trustees a
general authority, to manage said trust fund; so as to produce
the best interest which can. be safely done: unless such general authority be given,:we should have to wait foi new instructions whenever.any payment of principal.may come into.
our hands. It is highly probable, that when: you answer the
,letter sent-with-a-copy of the will,.you .will give such-directions as we have alluded-to. If you have not, you will pex'-:
ceive the necessity-of baming; it done- without delay -as we
cannot move in thebusinss-until we, have your dire'ctions,
.which may-be given.either by -let.ter'or ayother authentic
writing." It will be nece.ssary, idcase.you do -not come to
thiq country, that you, authorise--some person here -toreceive
for: you the annuity, as -we .are bound t0 pay it-within' the
United States, We -are ihus particular, as it takes at least
three or four.-months .toget an answer from the "interior ',f
Eigland.'
To these letters the following answer was. written, by.Mrs
Foxall, and received by the- executors..and-trustees:
,Gentlemefi ;.In reply to your letter of the 17th of July'
last; in which .you request ,my approbation relative to theinvesiment of the $37,038, tq provide my innuityaccordingoto"
my marriage settlement, I.acquaint. you, .that, in - the judg-.
inent of- my late-husbar, and according .td,.my own, the
stock of tfie United'States offJfo-th drn'e ica is preferredb t
-

SUPREME -'COURT.;
[English and .others vs. Foxafl.]

me, to freehold security'or bank stock.; ind that I shall ap.prove of the investment of the principal sum. in that fund,
and nQt or real security or bank stock, and beg it-may.be so
ilvested."
:Mrs Foxall returned to the UnitedStates-in December
1824, and a similar application wis made to her by the tistees, with the same effect; and she remained in the'belief
that the investment was* made according -to her wishes, in
stocks of'the United States. "Ten,thousand ix hundred and
forty-five dollars; six per cent. stock, were afterwards paid off
by. the government, without- the, knowledge of Mrs Foxall;
and. of this sum $.10,006 were also, without her knowledge,
loaned to one of.the'trtfstees nd'to.another person,.oii their
promissory note,.secured by a..pledge .of $12,b00, stock of
the Farmers' and Mecbanics'-Bank; of Georgetown.
In 1826, Mrs Foxall came to know-that no separateiivestment had been made-for her .annuity; and'.she then, in
writing, requested that the sum of $3,7038 should be invested in tock- f the United States for that purpo.se. This was
refuied by the executors and trustees; they contending that
the right was with them to make the investment as they
should think best, free from the control-of Mrs-.Fxall, -and
without her approbation.
'Uponthis .refusal* Mrs Foxall filed. th'e bill in the, circuit
court against the trustees, claiming'to have the provisionls of.
the marriage..settlement parried intW effect, and to have- the.
anount of the same .invested in. some of the government
stocks, in her and their joint names. .The bill calls for :a
iscovqry where .the .$:37,038 had beqn j nvestdd, .and "to.
whomin..particular, it, had been loaned;- and, for gonerel
relief.
Th. trustees, in -their answet, submit therspWves to thp
court, admitting .they"hate ample funds for the purpose,;but
raise-the question .whethbr Mrs Foxll has'the right to have
the sto0k of ihe United States,.iethe $,37,038.inves.ted in"
f'etring to a cross bill filed'by thenri; for-the reasons why.ih-y.
Opppose she has not that right. The'ystate that $22,000 were
then invested in Uuited States stock ,nd thatall the iesidue
of thd poeional estate- was in their hands and vested in r-l
-

JANUARY TEIRM' 189.

6.0

[Engulish and others ps. Foxgafl]

securities of the, most undoubted safety, producing an interest of six per centum per arnum.
They deny.the right of Mrs Foxall to'theb enefxtof the pro.
vision of the settlement rdqluiring her approbation'to tie investment, and of that of the -will,. throwing the lo s of such
investment'upon the residue of the estate, avdrringthdii .to bo
inconsistent - and require that she be held to elect between
them. Andf ihat if her bill, afready filed',.bi considered.as
an election to take under the-settlement, and the- investmeft
prayed by.her.shall be. decrieed, that it shall be,further ddcreed, that she shall receivethe interest of-the -ame; so to
be invested, ;in bar of all claim upon. the residuum- of the
estate, undeiI the provision of the'will for any deficiency.
In.December 1827" a-statement was filed by,-the :tzuseQes,
showing the-naitire of the'sebuirities in which:the estate was
invested; and to whomthe moreys paidin had been loaned.
The trustees in the marriage settlement, the executors -or
the'v/ill of Mr Foxall, and ihe daughter'of Mr Foxall wifb
her husband* Samuel, M'Kinney,. filed -a bill. against, Mri
Foxall the- appellee, -the. object 6f which' is -to kep the$37,038, in the hands of the -trustees.of. the will mixed up
with the general-mass of.Mr Foiall's. estate, tnd to prevent
the stock of the United States ,
the invhstment of that sum in,
becatise so invested, the stocks bein'g-- above par, it would'.
not'produce the full amoufit of the-annui.ty., .The bill d.naies
the right of Mrs Foxall-to select the. fund for th- in .estrent-,
of the sum of $37,038, and asserts that if.she .has that*right,
order to enjoy the .bnefit:of'
she must forego the ,sahie, 'in
the provisions in the will, asserting that the testator by inserting that lause inhis will, providing that evefy deficiency in
the amount of thp annuity should be borne by hisgeneral
estate, intended to-curthil the rights.of the settlement,; afid:
that she must be-put t6her el.eetion bet1ween the provisions
of th6 will and-those of the settlement..
'The answe , 6f Mrs F6xall ,to this bill, denies- the incdnrsistency beiween the provisions'of thd settlement and the will;.
contends that she is entitled to the, benefit of both; thatttie
has a rightto, ,hoose the:funds for inyestroent, and I" call
-

-on the iesiduum of the estate, ,to make good the deficieney:
VoL. IL.-4 .A

602

SUPREME COURT.
[Englisb and 'otheri vs. Foxall.]

that may arise fromits not producing six per centum to. pay

her annui.ty; and. declaring that her husband always advised
md rec6mmended her to:invest it in Unit~d States stock,
and intimates her desire to insist oh its being so done; even
if the loss to arise from it is td fall upon. hir.
The causes were, by consent, -heard together in thecircuit
court : and that cofirt decrbeed in the first cause, that the
investment of the $37'08 should be mad&as she desired,
and the interest.paid annually t6 her,; and that if'sicli interest fell short of producing $2,222.22 (that is,-6 per. cent.)
per annum, the deficiency should be"paid' to. her annually,
out of the -residuumof'the estate in the hands'of the trustee.
In the secondcase, the court decreed the bill to be dismissed.
From these. decrees, the defendants in the court below in
e first case, and the complainants in the second case,. appealed to this Court.
The .cases were' argued. by Mr Key for the appellanits and
lby Mr Jones.for tbe appellee.
For the appellants it wad doitended:
1. That the- provisions of the deed of settle'nent and of
the will are inconsistent, .abd that the widow is hot entitled
to the benefit of' both;, that she canibot choose the fund for
investment under the deed -and throw the loss from such investment upon others, under the-will.
2. Teiat, part of the decree which directs the payment of
the deficiency from the residuum is erroneous, according to
th0 irue-'c-nstructidn bf the will, which only authorizes such
payment when'the funds shall. 6efoiz'nm nsqffcienzt to raise
within the United States, the qedr incbme of $2,22.29: and
the proof taken in"the cause, shows that th fundd Ere sufficient,' and are now so .invested:as-to proldtie'that ,sum.
3. The construction of, the clause' of the. deed of settle"
mient giving .the widow the exclusive direction of the investment is erroneous. The deed requires it.to be made by the
trustees, with her approbation, so that both -must concur in
the in'vestment.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

03

.Ignglish and others vs. FoxaU.]

For the appeilee, it wa argued, -that she*can zequire the
$37,038 to be separated .frqm the general estate, and invested-in the .stock of the United States.
And if there. be any deficiency in the incomiie fri ih investment, she. can Charge the same to the. general..es&tate:
•1st, under the' settlement; and-2d,' under the will.
Mr Justice'Tomsoi4 delivered the. opinion of the Couit.
These cases come before 'the Court on- appeal' from the
circuit court of the district- of Columbia, arid have 'been
argued together.. The first was- a bill filea.by Mrs Fdxall
against the appellants,_as trustees in- a marriage setilement
contract, entered inio b.tween her and- her late hugband
Henry.Foxally deceased. The object. of':thiS bill was..to
compel. ihe trustees to carry into- effect the 'marriage con-tract, according to her costruqtioii of 'it, by - eparating
,$37;038 from 'the general mass of her late husband's estate
andinves.ting the same:in stock of the -United Stated. Tile appellants, ini their answer, admit that they'have received funds of the eptate of Henry Foxall, to a much larger
also trusafiaoufit thair the. P37,038,-but allege that.they areFoxal;.
nd
of Henry
.tees*under the provisions -of the will
have not inyvested: it in stock' of th United States, because
it could not be. done without great, los '; and that they considered such an inveqtnient injudicious and. 'prejudicial to the
estate'aid.to the rightsof others interested.in the-4esiduun
of the estate, and its-income.' And they'aver that thEyilave
securely vested in. real 'securities and bank stocks, producing
an igterest of six per cent. the Whole-bf-the personal-estate
i2,64i.
United' States stock, purchased by H
except 4
Foxall in his life iime. They admit t-fiey.have ample funds,
and are willing.to mik6 the inivestmaat required by. the appellee, if the constructiown:f the'deed'of settlement, which
she. cdntends ibol, 'should be deemed by..the Court to belcorrect.
With this answ#er,-a id referring'to it, was -filed the coss
bill ii the :second cause- in which the trustee'in the'marriage.s tlenent, -and Samuel M'Kinney,.hwo are ihe execut6rs named' in the *will' of Henry Foxall, together with

SUPREME- COURT.
[English and others vs. Foxall.]

sundry other persons, who are the cestui que trusts under
the will, are complainalits, and Catharine Foxall defendant.
In this bill the- appellants set forth the will,of Henry Fox:all, and aver that by it "thewhole real and personal estate of
:tlM testator, is bound-to sedure to the-appellee her annity.
That the-investinent in United Sta'tes Stock of the. $37,038
would
occasion a loss in, the in'cim6 of -the whole estate of
six orseven
-hundred dollars a year, which would fall; according to-the'-will; upon the other.cestui'tue trusts. They deny
the rigdht of- the appellee: to claim the benefit of the provi.ion- of the settlement. requiring her approbatiofi to'-the in.vestment,'afid'also that of.the will to make up the deficiency,
aiid -thereby throwing the. loss of such .investme-nt upon the
residue.of the estate; averribg the two provisions to be ifco nsitent, and, requiring -the appellee to elect betweeri them;
and lpraying:-that if her:bill, already filed, be consider'dan
election t6 take under the s6ttlement, and the investment
prayed by her shall b6 decre6&, that it may be. further"decreed,-thatshe shdll reeeive the interest of the- same, so.,to
be: invested',A.n bar, of- all claim -Aoloh the residuum of the
estate, under tfie provisions of ,the will for any deficiency.
The-afiswer.in this case denies the inconsistency between
the provisions of. the will and the marriage settlement, and
claimstlat the- appellee is eptitled to the benefit of both.
Thatshe has tle right! to choose the funds. for investment,
and to-look to the residuum of the estate to make good the
deficeiency 'that may arisefrom the investment not producing
six per'eent., so.as'to pay, her annuity of.$2, 22 22 cents.
The.6ourtf below decreed in the' first cause,.that the appellants, as trustees in the will, should transfer to themselves, as
trustees in thd marriage -settlement, the sum of $37,038, and
should invest-the same in the purchase of stock of the United
States, and pay thd dividerds from, time to time, as received,
to Catharine: Foxil,-fo'i and during thetetu of her life; and
that the appellants should make the investment of the said
pri'ncipal sum, jointly in the names- of themselves and the
said Catharine;'and cause the trust upon which the same is
to be inveted, to Ve expressed in.the certificates of investment, and upon the books of the treasuiy'.department. And

JANUARY. TERM -1820.

•605

[English and bthers vs. Foiall.]

'further, in case the saiJ principal sum of- 37,038, so in:
Vested,. should., be •found insufficient to raise and pay the
ann'uity of $2,222 29 cents, that the deficiency should fror6
timae to time be made good out of the residuum-of the'estate,:
&c. And in.the second cause, the court decreed the bill.to'be dismissed.., From both these decrees,'appeals have been.
brought to this Court.
*The two qdestions.which arise upon these cases are:
I. Whether~the appellee, Mrs Foxall, has a right; under the
inarriage seitlement, to require the. trustees'to separate the,
$37,038 from the:general mass of the 'state, and invest the.
same in stok of the United States.
2. If such.investmeht should be insufficient.to pay her the
annuity of $2,222 22 cents, has she a right to have the deficiency, made up, out of the general estafe, either under the
mhrriage settlement, or under the will of her de~eased insband.
I The answers to these questi6ns will depend upon the'con-st.ruction' to be given to the marriage settl~ment,' and the

will o~f'116nry Foxall.

The settlement r6ecitesi that a miarriage was intended to lie
sblemnized between Henry Foxall and the appellee, then.
Ca'thai'ine Holland'; that u.pon the. treaty for such marriage,
it.was agreedbetween the said Henry Foxall and Catharifie
Holland, thai he should provide 'and .settle on her, in case
she should survive him, En annual income 6f $2,222 22 cents,
equal to £500 sterling, 'in the nature of 'a jointure for her,
for life, and in bar of dQwer, &c.; and also reciting, that.in
part performance of said ag'reement, the said Henry Foxall
had made his bond, in'the penalty of $74,116, to .tbe'trustees
named in. the settlement, to be void oh payment by his executors, within sii months from his .death, to the said trusteesof $87,038, with interest at six per cent. from hi* decease. It
is then declared by. the deed, that in case the said Catharine
Holland should survive the' said Henry. Foxall, the tristees
should stand possessed of said bond, and the $37,038, to be
received by them' upon trust, to .place. out the same, when
it shall come into their hands, at interest, on freehold seeurities, or invest it, or any part of it'in the pcurhase of stock"

SUPREME COURT.
jEnglish and others vs. FeanU.]

of the {United States ef.North Amerlec, or bank stock there,
with tlhe approbation of said' Catharine Holland; and to call
in and, re-place, and re-invest the same, alrd. the, produce
thereof, from time to time, upon 1Dr in* su-ch securities or
stock, with the. app-robation of-the said Catharine Holland;
and topay the interest and dividends of said-sum, securities
or siocks from time to .time, as the 6me shall be received,
to her. Or her assigns, or permit her or them to receive such
interest or dividends for hei. life, for hier separate use.
That the appellee has a right, to -require the $37,038 to
be.separated from the general mass of the estate, and invested
in funds for her use, acc6rding: to the trusts declared in the,
marriage -settlement. cannot admii of a doubt,
The circumstance that -the, trustees are also executors
named in the.will, cannot affebt the rights of Mrs Foxall,
This dcntract was -entered into -in the'year 166, long before
the will. was made, or it could be known who would be ap:.
pointed executor ; and besides, the trustees are not the only
,executors. But.it would be immaterial if they were. They
are- acting ii separate and distinct capacities, and are bound
.o execute. the respective trsts -according to the provisions
:of the marriage "settlement and the Will. This settlement
was accompanied with a -bond given by H. Foxall, by which
he bound his executors to pay over .to the said trustees the
.$37,038. within six months from.his death. And the settleffent cdeclares that the trustees shall stand possessed of-said
bond, and'.tke $37,038. to be received by them upon trust to
-place out t ie. same,.when it shall come into their hands, 'at
interesf,-&c. in the manner therein directed. Whether Mrs
Foxal-h@ad- a right to control the investment of this money
when -ft 6 ame into the -hands of the trustees, may admit of
more doubt.
"The trust declared is, that :the $37,038, when -it shall
come into the hands of the trustees, shall be placed out "at
interest on freehold security, or invested in. the purchase of
-stock of the United States of North America, o' bank stock
there, witi the aprrobationof the said Catharine -Holland;
and the-re-investments, when necessary- were to be made in
ike manner With, her approbation ; and thQ, ifiterest and

JANUARY TERMt 129

607

[Englisb and others-vs. Foxall]

dividends.to be paid to her, during_ her life, for her separate use.
The question is not whether she is at present -in danger-of
losing her annuity, nor does she in her. bill 'charge 'the
trustces with inisconduct. She is, in judgment of law, a
purchaser of .this anriuity, her rights rest -in contract, and
,she seeks to have that contract carried into exc'utioni. And
whether this will work an injury to third persons or- not,
cannot control her rights, secured to her by the marriage
settlemhent. When this contract Was entered into, there
was no existing interest in any third. jarfies. -And no subsequent act of one of the contracting parties, can chanige
the rights of the .other. 'This fRnd, or the s.ecurities or
st6ck in which it'sho uld be invested, were, after her death,.
to be "transferred to the executors or assigns of Henry Foxal.l. But 'no disposition which -he'could make'of them,
could abridge the .rights of'Mrs Foxall under the'settlement. What then is to be understood by the stipulation,
'that the investment was to be'made with her approbation?
That she was to hav6 some agency in this. investment, catnot be questioned; And is it an unreasonable interpretation
to say, that she'Was'to have acontrolling agency, within the
litaitation prescribed by the contract. She ,fias no anarbitrary and unlimited discretioh. 'The' investment is 'ret'Ricted to three objects: freehold secutities, United States
stogk, or bank stock; and the trustees'are not authorised to
make any other investnent. Nor can she approve or disapprove of any other. Al.sueh acts, both in them'and her,
would be .ivithout authorit9, iShe is the party beneficially
interested in the investment; and it is fairly to be 'presumed,
that'hdr intended husband meadf to leave it t6 her 'to elect
betweeii the different objects of investment. It cannot be
presumed, that she would withhold 'her approbation' from.
all, and if' she did the loss would be her own, and not to
the prejudice of any one 'else. It is very probable' that dif.ferent .persons, with equally honest and upright motives,
might differ in opinion. with reslect to the thr6e different
modes of'investment p6ifited ouit in the settlement. And
Wlen that occurs between MrsFoxall and the trustees, one

'008

SUPREME
68
COURT.
'[English aid others tiFoxalfl

or the otherphrty must yield: and the contract must deter-.
mine their:r'espective rights." That declares, that the in-;
ve'tment is to be made with her approbhtion'; which would
seem hecessarily-to imply, that it could not be made without it, and, t all events, 'not directly against it. And s uch
appears to ,have been the construction "put upon it. by the
trustees .themselves. For. in July 1824, bfter the-death.of
her husband,, they wrote hei two .letters ; one in their character of executors, and .the other. aq trustees in the setflemexit.-, ;In the' first they say; "1The executors of youi late
husband are d.esirous'of paying'over to the, trusteeasof the
marriage settlement the'sum of $37,038, according 'to the
directions 'of the will. It -is deemed necessary that you
shotili. give i*nstructions to the trustees' named in the- marriage. settlement. before they con feel themselves authorised
to invest the money." And.in their letter, written as trus'tees,' they say, "The executots are- ready'to pay o~er -the
sum of.$37038 to. thq' trustees naried ii the marriage
settlement; for the purpose of 'providing the annuity secured
to you in ,the settlement. 'In which it is stipulated, that we
are to place it Out at interest, on freeh61d -security, br invest it in the purchase of stock of the. United States of
North America, or bank stock there, with the alpprobation
of Mrs .Foxall. ' We are, 'therefore, compelled to wait for
"you instructions."
-.In, September following she .answered their letters, in
which she. says, "I-acquaint you that in the judgnrent-of my
late husband, according. with my. own, the sto'ck of the lUiited States of North America i's preferred by me,'to freehold
seeuri'ty or bank stock; and that I shall approve of the'inVestment of tlje prin'cipal sum in that fund, and not on real
se.urity or bank' stock, and beg' it may be. so invested.". We.
think the trust6es 'vere bound to make the investment ac'cord ing to this request. That it was a right secured tb her
under the marriage settlement.
We will not say,'but that a state of things might exist in
which a court of .chancery would be authorized to control
h'6r election: as if she shduld act from mere caprice, apd
with a manifest purposeof throwing a loss .upqhf the residu-

JANUARY TERM 1829:
lEngtsh -and others vh. Foxall.]

um of the estate. 'But there is nothing in this' case to.warrant such an imputation against her. And -it is not very
certain, that she even erred.in'juidgmeht, if she had herself
to sustain.the, loss. The object of the settlement-was to give
her a-dertain, safe and'secure income. And it-was not unreasonable for her to, place more confidence in government
stock, thaniin mortgages;.where it is. well known there '
less punctuality in the payment of interest; or in bank stbck,
with the hazard of insolvency. She acted, as shd states ii
her letter to the trustees; according to -thb judgment of her,
late husbandj; and whicbr -no doubt. had great influence' with
her, in preferring suchinvestment. - And the sincerity of his
advice is manifest- from "tecircumstance, that he left, as apart of-his esgate,.upwards of thirty-two th6usand.dollars in
States stocks.
2. The next inquiry is, whether, -if th6investment of the
$3-7038 in stock of the United States:should be insufficient
to raise the annuity of $2,222.22, the defici~ncy is charge-.
able upon the' residuum' of the -estate.
In-detefmiding this question, it is unnecessary to say., holy
it would stand if the claim-rested entirely upon the marriage
settlement.
The prbvision intended to be made for Mrs Foxall. was
clearly, an 'annuity ; and where thatjis ihe'naiure, of the -settlement, the cases ih the books are very strong to show how
far dourts of equity will go to guard against any -deficiency..
But in the present case the will of Henry'Foxall puts that
question at rest.
This will bears.date the 12th of April 1823, the first'part
of which is as follows, "I do -hereby ratify and. confiin, in
evpry respect, the* sattlegent madd upon my marriage with
"my dear wife Catharine,- and do direct the provisions and
trusts ,6f the-same,-and :the conditions of the bond entered
into by m.up6n my. saild marriage, to be faithfully performed. ' I .do farther direct, that if the sum of $37,638 secured
to be paid to thp trustees -of said-settlement, should at any"
time, .and from time to. time, be found insufficient to rais6
within these United-States, and bring into.the hands of the
said trustees of said settlement, there, the clear annual sum
I VOL. I.-4
B
-United

610

SUPIREME COURT.
[English and others vs. Foxall.]

$2,222.22, the annuity secured to be paid to my said wife.
by thie said settlement;; then and in such c.ase, the'trustees of
this my will, do and shall from time to time transfer to theniselves as trustees of said settlement, and out of the residuum
of my estate, stieh sum or sum of money, as may from time
to time be'found- necessary, t 9 make up any deficiency there
may happen to be betweeh the'current dmount of the interest'and produce of said principal sum, and the amount of said
annuity ; so as' that, in io 'event, legs than the said sum of
$2,§22.22 shall be annually raised for my said wife or for her
benefit within the United states-'"
It. is -difficult to conceive how a more ample provision
could have been made, to. secure to the. appellee the full.
ampint of her aniluity, 'nd-is a'strong corroboration of
what she stated, to the trustees, that, in selecting United
Statesstock for the investment, she acted in accordance with
the judgment of h6r late husband. For, it-is admitted, thatwhen the willwas mad6,. government stock was abovd par,
'and that the stork of the local banlis"of the district of Columbia, might be so,jurchased as'to pay six perceht. interest, an d.that this.wais kn6wn to the testator, H. Foxall. A de-'
ficiency must therefore necess"rily arise from an invBstment
in government stock, but not -from an ifivestmqnt in bank
stock;. And his. being so very particular in providing by his
will' for 'deficiency, shbw.s he had reasons to believe it
would occur;'
It- has 'been urged,' b the appellants"- 'ounsel, .that the
provisions of the deed of settlemenit-aind of. the will are incoflistent-; and.that the appellee is not entitled to thdebenefit
.of b6th, but must make her election between them:' That
she cannot choose thb fund 'for investment.under
thie-deead,
'and ihrow the. loss from such investment upon o.thers :under
the will.
It 'is not perceived how this can in. any sedse, be cons'.dered a case for election, Ther6 is rio inconsistency whatever betweenrthg two provisions. The will" expressly refers
to and confirms the- settlement, and provides frr -any deficiency that might occur, by reason 'of hn investnient that
would not:raise the stipuagt'd annuity. ' There s nothing in

JANUARlY TERM 1829

61

[English and others vs. FoxalJ.]

the -will affording the least colour for ifie conclusion'that the
testator: intended .any prob'ision therein made for his widow,
should be in .satisfaction of-the settlement; but clearly as an'
accumulated bounty over and above it:
Again', it-ii said the will only authorises payment of the.
deficiency, when the fpnds shall be found insufficient to
raise .withiri the United, States.thdIcl6ar income'of.2222 22
cents; and thatthe proofs taken in the cause •show thatthe
fun.ds are.sufficient, ahd .are :now. so invested as to produc'
that sum. The' answer. to-.this objection is givenin the -ex"
amination o' the li.rst point,-that- such investment w.as.not
'authorined under -the miarriage- settlement, it having been
made without the approbation of the aPliellee,, and directly
'againsther instructions.- We' re accordingly of opinion,
that the'appeIlee has a.right'to claim of the trustees in'the
marriagp settlement, by virtue of the will of her deceased
-husba.nd, out 6f the reiiduum of his -estate, whatever 'the
anrual awounit of'thd product of '$S7jO38, invested -instock
of t.he Uhaitbd State., shall fromine to time jall .Fhort of the
an.inity 'df $2,222 22 ceflts., secured to her in the m'arriag
settlement.
.The merits are 'therefore .with the appellee Jn both cases,
an d'.the .qly.difficulty presgttedi.-is',aS-.to th forms of the
decree- in the first cause.
'The bill in.that case, filjed by Mrs .Foxall., i's founded'al-.
together.upon the.maftiage settlement. It-praysa discovery
as to theq'situttion of*the fund of.$37,038, and.f)iat the wh6le
ofit may be invested iii stock, of the United States, and Coneludes"with a prayer for general relief; but sets up'no tblaim
under the- will for. afiy deficiency,
It. is4n-the. cross .bill ..
t.iat the question in relation to th6,
defldieiy' arises, under the wilE.. This bill Was 'filed fo 'i he
purpose of.compellirg Mrs Foxall .o,:eleci betweeri
the pro-.
visiQns of the "marriage settlenent and those of 'the. will.
The appellants, in thei'r. answer -to the'first bill, refer to the
,ross bill and the.1vill set out therein, and pray that theymay be taknn as a part of'their answer; and that the two
dauses may.be heard and determined together. They aie;
h6owevei, two-distinct' causes, wiih additional parties in .the

612

SUPREME COURT.
.[1Epglish and otfiersvs. Foxall.,I

c ross bill, and require separate decrees. The aecree as to
the deficiency, cannot be sustained, unless it can be done'
under the prayer'for general relief. There is no doubt, bui
thdt under the general prayer, other relief may be granted
'than that which is particularly.prayed ior.. But such relief
must be agreeable'to the case made by the bill; and there
is nothing in the first bill 'to sustain the particular relief
granfed as to the deficiency. This part of the deed must
therefore -be r6versdd. ,Thd residue is -affirmed, omitting
the name of Mrs Foxall in the investment directed to be
-made. There is nothing- in the marriage settlement hich
-entitle6 her td'be joined with the trustees-in the investmente
In the other cause ihe-decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.
In the first case the following' decree Nqs rendered.
This causecame -on to be heard on the trabstript of the
record from the circuit court of. the United States for the

district of Columbia holden in And fdr.the county of Washington, and wus.argued-by counsel; on"consideration whereof,this.Court is. of opinion, that the decree of the said-circuit
court in this-cause is-erroneous in this, that theie is nothing
ir'th first billto sustain th.e'particular relier granted as to
the defidieficy; hereupon it.is considered, ordered and de.creed by tlhis Court,'that the decree of the said circuit coxurti
sofar as it ,grants the' particular relief as to the. deficiency
in this cause,. be, and the-same -is
-hereby reversed and annulled; aidl-that.the r..s.idud of said decree in all-thifigs elsd
'be, and 'the same is heieby affirmed, ofritting'the 'hame"of
Mr. Foxall In the investment'directed to be ihade-;'and that
the crue b-d, and- the same is"
hereby iernanded to the said
circuit dourt-for'further proceedings to. be: had therein, according to law and justice.

