SANUARY .TERM 1829.

JULmA THOMPSON, TENANT, APPELL&AT

.151

vs. AmCE ToInE -AND

OTHEtS, APPELLEES.

Itwas assumed on the argument by the counsel on both sides, that the circuit.
court of the county of Washington in the district of Columbia, isvested with
the same power in relation to intestate's estates in that county,.that is possessed
by a 'county court in Maryland over lands lying within the ciinty. [162]
When the proceediogs of a court of comuetentjurisdiction are brought before
another court collaterally, they are by no means subject to all the exceptions
which might be taken to them on a direct appeal. The general and well
settled rule of law in such cases is, that'when the proceedings are collaterally
drawn in question, and it appears on the face of them, that the subject matter.
was within the jurisdictioh of the court, they are voidable onl.. The errors"
and Firegularities of any suit are to be corrected by some direct proceeding,
either' before the same court to set them- aside, or in an appellate court, If
llere is a total want of.juisdiction, the proceedings are void, and.a mere nuility, and confer no right, and afford no justification, and may. be rejected when
collaterally drawn in question. [163]
The act of the legislature of Maryland, relative to a devise of the real estate of
intestates in certain cases, i4 directing the commissioners when to give deeds
to-purchasers, has this general provision; that the commission and proceedings
thereon shall be recited ih'the preamble of the deed. It certainly could not
have been intended that the coumissiod, and all the loceedings, should be set
out in hac verba. 'If the substance of the proceedings is recited, it is sufficient. [167]
The law appears to be settled in the states, that courts will go far to sustain bona
fide titles acquired-under sales made by statutes regulating sales made by order
of orphans' courts. Where there has been a fair sale, the purchaser will not bp
bound to look beyond the decree, if the facts necessary to give the court jurisdiction appear on the face of the proceedings. [167]
The decision of this Court in Elliott vs. Piersoll, (P"
Peters, 340,) was not intended to decide any'thing at variance with the principles established in. this
case. [f68]
When the jurisdiction of ibe courtonthe subject-under whose authority lands
have been sold, appears on the face of the proceedings; its errors or mistakes,
if any were. committed, cannot be corrected .or examined when brought up
collaterally. [169]

THIS case" came up by-appeal TrPm the circuit court for
the county of Washington, in the district of Columbia;
where a verdict was taken for the appellees, subject to the
opinion, of the Court, upon the following agreed case.
"The plaintiff, to .prove title fo the premises, (Lot No. 14.
in Square No. 290, in the city of Washington,) showed a
title*in Robeft Tolmne, regularly deduced by sundry admitted meshe conveyances" from David Burnes, one of the

-SUPREME COURIL.
[Thompson vs. T-omie.J

original proprietors of city property, duly executed and acknowledged and recorded to the said premises, accompanied
by possession thereof and payment of taxes thereon, by the
several grantees, according to the titlesi down to the year
1805; when the said Robert Tolmie, the last grantee in
whom the said title. had vested, departed this life intestate,
leaving Margaref, Alice and James Tolmie, his only three
children and heirs at law, infants at- the time of his death,
under the age of 21 years; that the said infants continued in
possession of said premises until some time in the year-1814;
that Margaret was the'eldest of said infants, and that in- the
year 1812 she intermarried with one Francis Beveridge, and
has since died, leaving three-children, to wit: Margaret Beveridge, Hannah Bev eridge, and James Beveridge, who are
named among the lessors of the plaintiff that James Tolmie
aforesaid also died after the death of said Margaret, his sister,
intestate, under age and unmarried, prior to the commencement of this suit, leaving Alice aforesaid his sister and the
said three children of Margaret his -heirs at law. And the
plaintiff also proved that the said Margaret Tolmie was 17
years of age at the time of her said marriage, which was in
1812, and was an infant under the. age of 21 years at the
time of.the sale made by the commissioners hereinafter
fnamed; that her husband, the said Francis Beveridge, some
time in the year 1814 or 1815, went away, leaving his family
residents of the city.of Washington; that after some time
hbe returned and lived witt his family, and again went away
and has never since returned, and is generally believed to
.be dead by his family and friends; about three or four years
"ago he was heard of and was then sick, and has never been
heard of since.
"The defendant has had possession of the premises since
1814, when she became the purchaser thereof (by her then
name Julia Kean) at a. public sale made by certain commis-,
sioners appointed under the act of the assembly of Maryland
of 1786, c. 45, to direct descents. She -entered in pursuance of.that sale, claiming the lot under it, and produced
in evidence, the'&-'proceedings of the commissioners, which
are made part of the case'agreed."

JANUARY TERM 1829.
IThormpson vs. Tolmie.]

That record contains a petition in the usual form for
partition of the real estate of Robert Tolmie, which pur
,ports to be the joint petition of Franc-is Beveridge and Mar'
garet his wife, and of Alic'e Tolmie and James Tolmie, infants, by Margaret Tolmie, their guardian, mother, and next
friend. It states that Robert Tolmie died seised, leaving
Margaret Lis widow, and also the following children, his
heirs at law, viz. "Margaret, since intermarried with Francis
Beveridge, said Alice Tolmie and James Tolmie, which said
Alice and James are infants under the age of 21 years." This
plhtition was filed on the 15th of June 1'814, and a commis-"
sion issued on the same'day. "On the 17th of June.1814,
the cbmmissibners'reported that the estate consisted of a single lot, and could not be divided without loss, &d.. andvalued the same at $1400. Whereupon, at .June term 1814,
the court ordered the property to be sold at public auction
on ten days' notice, one-fourth part of the purchase money.
in cash, and the residue at three, six and nine month.s, taking bond with good security to the heirs according to their
several interests. On the 5th of July 1814, F. Bevefidge
and wife, and Alice and James Tolmie'bytheir mother, gave
aotice in writing that they did not'elbet to take the property
at the valuation. On the 3d of July. 1818, the commissioners reported that tiey had sold the "property, on the 30th
of July 1814, to the appellant"t for $fi05, on. a credit of
three, six, and nine months; one-fourth being paid in cash,and that she gave due security for the payment of the purchase money, all whiph has been duly paid; they therefore
requested that the.said sale might be ratified, and that they
might be directed to distrihute the proceeds, and make a
conveyance.to the purchaser.. On-the same 3d of July, the
court" ordered that the report of the commissioners returned and filed in this cause be,, and the same is. hereby ratified and confirmed, so soon as proper receipts of the parties
are produced before one of the judges of this court,'and that
then the commissioners or a majority of -them make a-sufficient deed irife to the purchaser.", On the 13th of June,
181.6, the majority of the commissioners made a deed to the
appellant, which recites, thit by a decree of the circuit

SUPREME COURT.
[Thnmpson vs. Tolmie.]

court, sitting as a court of chancery, David Appler,.&c.
were appointed, commissioners, and they or a majority of
them were authorised and empowered to sell said lot, thq
real estate of Robert Tolmie deceased; and that in pursuance of said decree, the said Appler, &c. did, on the 30th
of July 1814, sell the same to the appellant for $1070 ; that
.the said purchase money had been paid, and that the *said
Appler, &c. were authorised and empowered by said decree
to execute a conveyance of the same, and accordingly the
said Appler, &c. conveyed said lot to the appellant and her
heirs.
The statUtes are the acts of assembly of Maryland of
1786, c. 45, s, 8;.1797, c. 114, s. 6 ;,and 1799, c. 49, s. 3,4.
Thisej'ctmerit was brought by'Alice Tolmiei and by the
three infant children of her sister, Margaret Beveridge; who,
since the death of the said Margaret and of the said James
Tolmie, have claimed to*be entitled to the lot, as heirs of the
said Robert Tolmie. The defendant entered under, and relied
on the commissioners' sale above, which the lessors of the
plaintiff contended was void. 1. Because none of the heirs
of Robert Tolmie had arrived at age at the time of the sale;
the act of 1786 expressly prohibiting a sale until the eldest
was of age. 2. Because the sale was never rati'fied by -the
court. 3. Because bonds for the purchase moneywere not
taken payable to each representative, according to his pro,portionable part of the.net amount of sales, And 4. Because
the deed does not recite the commissio" and all the necessary proceedings thereon to show a good title.
Mr Wilde and Mr Jones, for the appellant, argued:
1. That the sale of the property of Robert Tolmie , was a
judicial proceeding; made in a court of competent jurisdiclion, acting as a court of bhancery, and proceeding in rem,
in the proper exercise 4' its authority; and was, thefefore,
conclusive upon all the world. Gelston vS. Hoyt, § ,Fheaton, 246. But if it w6re otherwise, the law is, that a sale
made under an erroneous judgment i al1ys deemed-valid;
and in Maryland, it has been held, that a .dee in equiity.
for the sale of lands, to pay.debts, .or for distributioni is -a

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Thompson vs. Tolmie.]

proceeding in rem, and cannot be questioned, 6 Harris
Johns. 23.
The principle of law is, that if the jurisdictioi of the court
a ttsches to the subject matter, the proceeding cannot bb 6xarined in a collateral manner in another court, If error
exist in the proceedings, by the ministerial acts of those who
are the agents of the court in the same; although it is admitted those acts should not bestrictly conformable to the law.
of the proceeding, those errors can ,only be examined before
the tribunal from which the authority of the agefit§ emanated, So far as the purchaser of an estate is concerned, it is
entirely immaterial whether the agents of tie court did their
duty; the only remedy is byapplication to the court. 8 Johns.
361. 1, Cowen, 622. - 13 Johns. 97. In thos.estates where
the sales of estates of intestates are under the authority of
the courts of probate, the proceedings of such courts have."
been held conclusive. 2 Doug. 312. 1 Connecticut Rep.
469.- 4 Day, 221.
The purchaser is entitled to claim that all the proceedings.
shall be presur1ed to be regalar; and if axdy were not so,
proof of the irregularity should be'given, When, the court
ratified.this sale, the .conclusion is, that before the same
was done, all the intermediate steps had been examined,
were approved, and were regular,
Mr Key, for the defendant, stated that the title set up by
the plaintiff, was derived from particular statutes of Maryland, and the validity of the sale depended on the conformity between the proceedings, and the requisites of the law.
This had not been the 'course in the case before the court,
He denied that the sale was by a judicial decree. of- a
court; but by commissioners,'under the special statute. The
s~le having been irregular, was "herefore invalid, on the
authority of the cases in 4 Wheaton, 79. 3,Cranch, 331.
1 .
2 Wash. 382.
The proceedings did not -derive their authority from the
general powers of tha court; and the circuit cbuit acted in
this case under the special limited poiwert granted by the
.Maryland law. It was therefore necessary that tll thefacts
VOL. 11.-V

SUPREME COURT.
[Thompson vs. Tolmie.]

upon which the power was exercised should appear. Cowper, 528. 5 Harrisand Johns. 42. 130. 1 Peters, 340. 6
Harris and Johns. 258.
But if the commiosioners had power to make the sale, the
ratification of the same by the court is essential. No ratification.was giveni no receipts of the purchase money produced; for the proper evidence of these, is their recital in
the deed of conveyance.
Mr Justice THoMbpsoN' delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of ejeetment brought'in the circuit
court of the district of Columbia, in the county of *Washington, to recover possession of lot No. 14 in square No.
290; inm the city of Washington. Upon the trial, the lessors
of the plaintiff produced, and proved by sundry mesne con.veyances, a title to the premises in question, from David
Burnes, one of the original proprietors of city property, to
Robert Tolmie, who in the year 1805 died intestate. And
it was also proved that the lessors of the plaintiff, are the
heirs at law of Robert Tolmie.
The defendant claimed-title to the premises in question,
under a purchase made at a commissioners' sale, by virtue of
certain proceedings, had in the circuit court, pursuant to
the provisions of the laws of Maryland relative to a division
of the real estate of intestates in certain cases. Objections
were made to the validity of these proceedings, and. a verdict
taken for the plaintiff. subject to the 'opinion *ofthe court
upon a case agreed., The court below decided that the
commissioners' sale was void,-and rendered judgment for the
plaintiff for two thirds of the premises in question, and the
case comes now before'this court'upon a writ of error.
The case, in the circuit court, turned entirely upon questions arising upon the proceedings under which the sale was
made. .It was assumed on the argument by the counsel on
both sides, that the circuit court in which these proceedings
were had, was vested with the same powers in this respect,
in relation to intestates' estates in the county of Washington,
that is possessed by a county court in Maryland on this'-ubject, over lands lying within the county.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Thompson vs.Tolmie.]

The exceptions taken to the proceedings were,
1. Because none of the heirs of Robert Tolmie were of
age at the time of the sale,2. Because the sale was never ratified by the court.
3. Because bonds for the purchase riioney were not tiken;
payable to each representative, according to his proportional
part of the net amount of the sale.
4. Because-the deed does not recite the commission and
all the necessary proceedings thereon, to shew a good title.
The counsel for the defendant in error have, in the argu-:
ment, considered these proceedings open to the same exainination and objections, as they-would be in an apprellate
court, on a direct proceeding to bring them under 'eview.
This, however, is not the light in Which we view the questions now before us. These 'proceedings were brought before the court below collaterally, and are by no means'subject to all. the exceptions which might be taken on a direct
appeal. They may well be considered judicial proceedings-;
they were commenced in a court of justice, carried, on under
the supervisingpower of the court, and to receive its final
ratification. The- general and well 'settled -rule of'liw in
such" cases is, that when the proceedings are collaterally
drawn in question', and it appears upon the face of them,
that the subject matter was witliin the jurisdiction of- the
court, they are voidable only. The errors and'irregularities,
'if any exist, are to be corrected 'by some direct proceeding,.
either before the same cofirtIto set them aside, or in an appellate court. If there is a total want of jurisdiction, the
proceedings are void and a mere nullity, and confer no right,
and. afford no justification, and'may be rejected when 'collaterally drawn in question.
The first inquiry therefore is, whether it sufficiently appears, upon the face of these proceedings, that the court
had jurisdiction of the subject matter. The law of Maryland
under 'which they took place, (act of'1786, ch. 45, head 8)
declares that in case the parties entitled tothe intestate's
estate canndt agree upon ihe-division-;oi in' case 'any
person'entitled to any part be.a minor; application may be
made to the. court of the countywheie the estate li'es,-'and

SUPREME COURT.
[Thompson vs. Tolmie.]

the court shall appoint and issue-a commission to five discreet men, who are required to adjudge and determine
whethier the estate will admit of being divided without injury and loss to all the parties entitled; and to ascertain the
value of the estate.. And if the estate can be divided without loss or injury to the parties; the commissioners are required to make partition of the same, And if' they shall
determine that the estate cannot be divided without loss,
they shall make return to the county court, of their -judgment, and the reasons upon- which the same is formed; and
also the real value of the estate. And if the judgment of
the commissioners shall be confirmed 'by the county cotrt.
then the eldest son, child, or persons entitled, if of age,
shall have the election to take the whole of the estate, and
pay td the others their just proportion of the value in money5
and on the refusal of the eldest child, the same election iB
giyen in succession to the :other children, or persons pntitled; who are of age; and if all refuse, the estate is to be
sold under the direction of the-commissioners, and the purchase money divided among the several persons entitled, according to their.respective, titles to the estate. But if all
the parties entitled shall be minorg at the death of the intestate, the estate shall not be sold until the eldest arrives
to age, and the profits -of the estate shall be equally divided
in the mean time.
The -principal objeetion raised to the title of the dtfendant below, and indeed the only bne that presents any
difficulty is, that.upon the trial of this cause it was proved,
.that none of the heirs of Robert Tolmie had arrived af age
when, the sale was. made; and how far this will -affect the
sale will depend upon the question, whether the proceedings on the :partition, whxlien brought up in this collateral
way,--were open to an.inquiry into that fact. Did the jurisdiction of the court over the subject matter of the proceedings depend.upon that fact; or if true, was it matter of error,
and to be corrected only on appeal !.
It is to be borne in mind, that no such fact appears on the
face of these proceedings; but on the contrary, from what
is- stated, it may reasonably b6 faferred thai it appeared be-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Thomnpson vs..Tolmie.]

fore the court, that one of the heirs was-bf age. The petition presented to the court for the appointment of commissioners, and which was the commencement of the proceedings, in setting out the parties interested, states, that Robert
Tolmie died intestate, leaving the following children and"
heirs at law; viz. Margaret, since intermarried with Francis
Beveridge, and Alice Tolmie, and James Tolmie, which
said Alice and James are infants, under the age of twenty-.
one years. Why specially allege that these two were
minors if Margaret was also a minor. 'Every reasonable
intendnrent is to be made in favour of the proceedings; and
their allegation in the petition will fairly admit of the conclusion, that the petitioners intended to assert, that'Alice
and James only were under age. The age of the heirs,
was, at all eyents, a matter of fact upon which the court
was to judge; and the law no where requires the court-to
enter on record the evidence upon which they decided thht
fact. And how can we now say, but that the court had
satisfactory evidence-before it that one of the heirs was.of
age. If it was so stated in terms, on the face of the proceedings, and even if the jurisdiction of the court depended
upon that fact; it is by no means clear that it would be permitted to. contradict it, on a-direct proceeding to reverse
any order or decree made by the court. But -to permit that
fact to be drawn in question, in this collateral way, is certainly not warranted by any principle of law..
But, ibdependent of these considerations, the jurisdiction
of the court over the subject matter of the-proceedings sufficiently appears. It did not depend on the. fact that one uf
the heirs was of age. - But according to the express terms of,
the act, it attaches when the ancestor dies intestate, and any"
of the persons entitled to his estate is a minor. The petition
states that-Robert Tolmie, late of the county of Washington,
died intestate, seised in fee of lot No. 14 in square'No. 290,
leaving'Alice Tolmie and James Tolmie, two of his childreti, and heirs at law,-under the age. 'dfone and twenty'
years. And whether Margaret Beveridge, his other: child
and-heir, was of age or not, was immaterial, as it-respected
the jurisdiction of the court. That fact. could only become
-

166

SUPREME COURT'
[Thompson vs, Tolmio.]

material, in case the land was not susceptible of a division,
without injury or loss to. the parties. If it could be divided
without injury, the commissioners were required to divide
it, although all the heirs were minors. The materiality of
the inquiry, whether any one of the heirs was of age, was
altogether contingent, and might never arise. And, at all
events, must -depend upon the report of the commissioners,
whether or not the property might be divided without injury.
This must, necessarily, therefore be an inquiry arising in the
course of the proceedings, and after the jurisdiction of the
court attached.
With. respect to the other exceptions, it would be difficult
to sustaii them, if the proceedings were before this court
on a direct appeal. No more could be required, than to set
forth enough to show the jurisdiction of the court, and a
substantial compliance with the requirements of the law. In
June term 1814, the court confirmed the report of the commissioners, that the property would not admit of, a division,
and ordered a sale thereof; prescribing the terms, viz. one
fourth cash, and the other three fourths-on a credit of three,
six, and nine months, taking bonds, with good security to*
the heirs according.to their several rights, bearing interest
from the day of sale.,. On the 15th of June 1815, after the
expiration .ofthe time of credit, ordered by the court-to be
given; the "commissioners report a sale of the lot to the defendant below for $1105, and that the purchase money and
interest had all been paid, and they request that the sale
may be ratified, and they directed to distribute the money,
and make a..conveyanee to the purchaser. It is objected
that it doesnot appear that bonds were given to the heirs,
according to the order of the court and the directions of the
act of 1799. . But this objection cannot certainly be considered of any importfince, after the money had been paid by
the purchaser, and the report ratified and confirmed by the
court, and the commissioners directed to make a deed to the
purchiser. *But it is said this was a conditional ratification,
and:not to'take effect until receipts-'from thd parties entitled
tQ the money were. produced tor one of the judges of the
court. -Suppose this is to be considered a conditional rati-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Thompson vs. Tolmie.]

fication, and the purchaser not entitled to a deed until the
condition was performed. Where is the eyidence that
affords any inference that it was not performed. The receipts were to be produced to one of the judges of the
court, and was not a matter which the court were afterwards
to sanction or pasg anyjorder upon. It was not a judicial
adf, and would,-not of course be made matter of. record.
And the deed being afterwards given, affords a pretty fair
inference, thatthe order of the court hadbeen complied with.
The last objection is, that the decd does not recite the
commission, and all the necessary pr ceedings -thereon, to
show a good title..
IThe act of 1199, in directing the commissioners when to
give deeds to -purchasers, has the generl provisiop, that
the commission aud proceedings thereon shall be recited in
the preamble of the deed. It certainly could not have been
intended that the commission and all the proceedings should
be set out in hsc verba; and the substance of them is recited,
which is all that could be necessary. So that this exception is .not well iaken as to the matter of fact.
From this brief notice of the several objections which
have been taken to these proceedings, it will be seen that
in the opinion of this court, the three last are unfounded,
and could not be sustained even on a direct appeal; and the
first, although entitled to more consideration, canndt, at all
events, be raised, 'when the proceedings are collaterally
drawn in question, as they were on the trial of this cause.
The Maryland'cases cited in the argument, and reported
by Harris8f Johnson, Vol. V. 42. 130, and Vol. VI. 156.
258, do not throw rauch light upon the particular questions
.drawn under examination in this case. Some of them, however, are very strong -cases to show how far the courts -of
that state will go, to sustain bona fide titles acquired under
sales made by virtue of these statutes. The rules which apply to, and -govern titles acquired under sales made by order
of orphans 'courts, and courts of probate, in the states where
such regulations are:adopted, are applicable to the case now
before the court. The case of M'Pherson vs. Cunliff, 11
Sirg. 4. Rawle, 429 was one of this description, and brought

SUPREME COURT.
LThompson ts. Talmle.]

uitder the consideration of the supreme court'of Pennsylvania, the effect of a decree of the orphans' court, in matters
within its jurisdiction, although founded in a mistake of facts.
And in the discussion of that question which is gone into
very much at large, rules are laid down which have a strong
bearing.upon the present case. When there is a fair sale,
say the curtr and the decree executed by a conveyance
from the administrator, the purchaser will -not be bound to
look beyond the decree, if the facts necessary to give the
court jurisdiction appear on the face, of the proceedings.
After a,lapse of years, presumptions must be made in fayour
of what does not appear. If the purchaser was responsible
for the mistakes of the court, in point of fact, after they
had adjudicated upon the facts, and acted upon them, these
sales would be snares for honest men. - The purchaser is not
bound to look further-back than the order of the court. He
is not to see, whether the court Was mistaken in the facts of
debts. and children. That the decree of an orphans' court,
in a case within its jurisdiction,- is reversible only on appeal,
and not collaterally in another suit.
In Perkins vs. Fairfield, 11 .Ma8s. Rep. 297, in the, supreme judicial court of Massachusetts, it was held; that a title
under a sale by administration, 'by virtue of a license from
the court of common pleas, was good against the heirs of
the intestate, although the license was granted upon a certificate of the judge of probates, not authorised by the cir-,
cumstances of the case. The court said the license was
granted by a court having jurisdiction of the subject.- If
that jurisdiction was improvidently exercised, or in a manner
not warranted by :the evidence from the probate court, yet
it is not to be corrected at the expense of the purchaser;
who had a right to rely upon the. order of the court, as an
authority emanating from a competent jurisdiction. The
case of Elliot vs. Piersoll, 1 Petersi340, decided in this Court
at the last term, has been referred to by the counsel for the
defendant in error, as'containipg a doctrine that will let in
every possible objection that can be made to these proceedings.
T.The observation relied upon is, "but w'e cannot yield an.

JANUARY TERM IS29
[Thompson vs. Tolmie.]

assent to the proposition, that the jurisdiction of the county
court-could not be questioned, when its proceedings were
brought collaterally-before 'the circuit.court.' . This remark
was only in aniswer .tb the argument which had been urged
at the bar, that the circuit court could not- question. the
jurisdiction of the c6unty court. That it was.so intended is
obvious from what immediately follows. "We. know nothing
in: the organization of the ciicpit courts of the union, which
can' contradistinguish them from other- courts. in this raspdct.-2 And the limitation upon the extent of the inquir'y,
when the proceedings "are -brought Icollaterally before the
court, is explicitly laid down. 'We
agree, that if the'
county-court had jurisdiction., its decisions would he conelusive. .When-a court has-jurisdiction, itlhasa right to'decide every qcuestion that occurs 'in the cause; and whether
its decisions be correct or not, its-jibdgment*; until reversed,
is regarded as binding in: every other court. But if it- acts
'without authority, its judgments and 6rdersare rekarded as
nullities. They are -not voidable, but simply void; and form
no bar" to a recovety sought in opposition to them even
prior-to a reversal.'
. This is the clear and well settled doctrine of the law, and
applies to the case nbw- before the Court. The.jurisdiction
'of the court, ".(unde'whos6 order -the sale was made) over
the subject matter, appears upon the face dr'the proceedings ;and itsearrorso mistakes,. if any' were committed, cannot be
corrected or examined, when brought up'collaterally, as.they
were in'the circuit court.
The judgment of the court below- must, accordingly, be
reversed; and -ihe record' sent. back, with directions to -the
kourt to enter judgment for the defendait.

VOL. II.-W

