SUPREME .COURT.

v8.

.W4M
Y¥'

S. BU CNER, A CITizEN or Nnw" YoRu
Fnmray AND
LEAR, oCiTxNs oFrnnSAATE OF NIARLAD.

Bills ofeichange drawn.in one-state of t e union, on persons-jiving in another
* state, partake of the'characte of. forefgn bills, and ought to be so ireated in
the courL of the United Sate
For alinational purposes embraced by tb federal constitution, the states and the
citftens thereof.are pqne-,united under tidsame .sovergign authority," and governed by tbe'sahe laws. ,In all other respects, the gtates. asre necessarily
foreign and indeiend~it-bf -ach'other. [590"

THIS case came before the Court from the circuit coitrt
,of the, United States for the Maryland.disqtricti - The action
was ihstit'uted in -the- circuit court, on 'a bill of exchangd,.
drawn .n the-16th -6f'-Maich 1819,. by-the defendants, at
.Baltimore,on 'Stephen' Dever at ew Orlean8, in favour of.
-RosewbJl L.Colt or order, of Baltmorejdnd byhim indorsed,.
,for value receive2d, to the 'plaintiff, .acitizenof New York.
A judgment was confessed by the- defendafits ,'fr $,100,
subject to the. opinion of the, court, upon. a case stated; etxd
which presented the que'stion, whether the circuit court had
jurisdiction'in.tho ease..
Tie defendants objected to the'jurisdiction,-on the ground
that-the bill 'was an. inland, ahd not a fdreign bill of excha.ge; and"therefoye, the defefidants, and the drawee Rosewell L. Colt, beihg citizeis of Maryland, although the bill
was regularly in .the hands of.the plaintiff, 4sindorsee, who
is acitizen of a different sta ,, the 'circ'uitcoart had n6 cogniiance of the claim.
The, provision of theact of congress .upon.which, the quettion arisesis in the- ltli.sectionof the "act to establish the
jtdicial powers of the pourte of the United States," pa-sed
September 24th, V789. The words of the ict are, " nor-shall
any district or circuit cbuft have cognizance of any suit to
recover the contents. of aqy promissory no.te, 'or other chose
in action, in favour of an assignee; uiless a suit mighthave
been prosecuted in-such court. to recover the said contents,
it no assignment had been made-;. except in cases .offoreign
billi of exchange."

JANUARY- TERM- 829.587
rOackner..s. Finley.&-Van Lear.].

The 'jqdges of the'circuit.. ourt divided in opinion .n'the
queslion of jurisdicti6n. nnd 6"rdered the record to'be certified to this Court.

-

The case was argued by Mr Hoffman; for the defendants,
no counsel appegring for the plaintiff.
He contended, 1. That in. all cases of promissory notes,
inland bills of exchpinge and other choses in action, an assignee, or an indorsee, is incompetent to. sue the jiakef in
the couits of the United States, e-xcept-here.-such.suit might
Siave been there. prosecuted, had"ther. been, no a88ignment
or indorsemeht; and-that as the p yee of this bill cfexchange,
When calling- on the makers, must have resiorted to thestate
tribunals, the indorsee must be.referred to th-e -ame tribunals.
'2.. That this being a bill of exc-hnge drawn within this
union, .and -payable there, viz. between citizens of sister'
states, .cannot b6 regarded'as a foreign bill, within the-soumnd
-interpretation of the 1lth sec.tion of the judiciary act of 1789;
but that it is- ari iland bill, which, like promissory notes, re6mains forever'subject-o state juris.diction, though.transferred
to citizens of -another -state.
3. That congress did not design, by the exception -contain.edin'that section 3 to: legislate in-reference tocitizens of the
d.fferent states of this hion, or *to confer ontihe circuit
courts a jurisdiction in regaid to them, so as to comprehend
in theiri favour as "foreign bills," those that should be drawn
between .citizens of sist. -states.
4. That congress used this expression in.itspopular sense,
which, indeed, is the only -one in which that body could have
thus legiglated ; and that bills foreigh to th~e union, viz. bills
drawn in or on cotintries tilien to.the oeeigty of the
United States,'were.the ofily foreign bills that either the
policy, or the obyious ineaning of-the exception. embraces.
.5. Thatforeign-countri s, andforeignbills, are cQrelative
.expressions; -whereas,no sister state is foreign to the union,
.nor is any sister-state trly -foreign to any other siate of the
union. Congress, therefore, when -legislating in reference
to jurisdictimi,-must have bad that unioi- and foreign :states

SUPREME COURT.
[Butcner vs.. 7fntay

Van Lear.I

in its iew.; and designed to legislate inder .this exception
only .in
reference tW bills dr awn 'in.or on the union, but in
or on.any dountry othe-tfianone of the states of this uniton;
they beipg in regfard.to the union itself one, and notforeign;
and also, in regard 'to each other, not foreign eithdr in a
"p6pular or strictly'lega1 sense.
6." That the exception in -regatd-toforeign bills was, perhaps founded on the policy of extending -to aliens, (who
were most likely to, become the holders 6f. bills"drawn here
on foreign countries, or drawn in foreign. Countries on this)
the benefif of the nationaltribunalsVand Nwas not, designed
to e6ibrace citizens of different states, or-to digiinguish-such
bills ,frorn promissor. notes,, which. remain ivith the state
courts, though in the hands 'of t itizefis o.f. different states.
Such citizens, though bona'fidi indorsees, and 'or full.value,
being incompetent to sue makers in the'felerai courts, though
tfiey are. competent to sue their own indorsers;because every
indorsemer t isa new and independent contract, as between
indorser anfd-indorsee. '
S7-. That the legal, no less than the popular understanding,
ha's classed such. bills under. the head- of inland;-and that
being the izorma. loquendi renders it highly probable that
congress had no other bills in view;" than such'as are drawn
in or on. countries wholly foreign .to the jurisdiciion and sovereignty ofthis union,.
8. That'although most of the'legislatures pfi the diffeint
states have allowed damages on the .protest of bills draw.n
or sister states ; yet nearly, .without'exception, the word "in-land" has been applied to such bills, and the word " foreign"
thtfiosedrawri in or-on other countries.
Forthe popular and legal sense of the expresgibn "inland
bills," 4 Griffith's Law Registir, 627, 699: 697. 799. 943.
1006. 1007. 1067. 1140.
"9. The question is re&nova. in this Court, but has been
the subject of judicial discussion in three -instances, viz. in
Millar vs. Hackle , 5 Johns. Rep. 375 ; and 1,S. C. Const.
Rep. 100; and in-Lonsdale vs. Brown, 1821, before Mr Justice Washington(a).

JANUARY TERM 1829.

-5689

[Buckner vs. Fin1by & Vn Lear.]

Mr Hoffman stated that he, was not informed, .whether in
this last case -the point turned on the.questofi q.jur sdiction,,
or only on the necessity of protest, as was the ease in.-two
other cases. The case in New York holds such bills to be'inland. BUt had the decisions in. the state'couts-been uhiformly other.viise, it is difficult to conceivehow the states are
to be regh'dcd as foieign to each other in the national tribunals. A bill'may well be foreign in the state courts, and inland in the federal courts ; and- The ,onstitutionality of the
very- exception contained in the 11th section of the judiciary act,, if designed to embrace wihin its jurisdition bills
between state and stte, seems to have beei' doubted by M r.
Justic6 Story in I -Mason,.251." Butif this'point be ,v'waived,
the only inquiry is as to. the probable intention of congresg;
which,, the plainfiff contends, was toembvane only su ch bills
as are drawn -between cofntries actually foreign to each
other. Chance llor Kerit, in his Commentaries,Vol.II[.-p..3,
inclines to the. opinion that-bills 6etweeni'the states of the"
all courts; but the poiht of piotest -ahpunion are foreign ifi
pears to- have mainly occupied the mind of the learhed writer; and the question ofjuri iction;-arisingl'rom.,the sound
construction of the dct of congress, .does not specially claim'
his uttention..Mr Justice. WASHINGTON

-the -opijaion: of .the

Court.
This is an action of essuml "it founded -on a bill of exchange drawn at 'Baltimore, in- the state-of Maryland,-upon
Stephen Dover at New Orleants, -in. fiavour of R. L. Colt,.
citizen of Maryland,, who. indor'sed ihe same to the plaintff,
a citizen of NevV York. The action was- brought in the cir.Ujticourt of the United States-for-the district.of Maryland;
and upon a case agreed, stating the above fats, the judges
-of that court'were divided in opinion, whether theyfcould
entertin j'urisdiction of the cause-u p n-the gro'und insisted
gpon. by the. defendants' counsel, that the. bill was'.to beconsi.dered as. inland. The difficulty which occasioned the
adjburnment of the cause- to-this Court, is produced *by the
fithsection of the judiciary-act -of 1789, which declares,
that no district or circuit court shall have' "cognizan.e of
-

-

.delivered

SUPREME COURT.
[Buckner os. Vinley & Van Lear.]

any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note, or
other chose in action in fivour of an assjgriee, uhless a suit
might have been prosecuted in. such court to recover the.
said contents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases
offireign bills of exchange."
The only question is, whether the bill on which the suit
is founded, is to be considered a foreign bill of exchange '.
It is' to be regretted that so -little aid in determining this
qfestion is to be obtained from decided cases, either in
England, or in the United States.
Sir William Blackstone, in his commentaries(a), distinguishes foreign from'inland bills, by defiriing the former as
bills drawn by a merchant residing abroad upctn his correspondent in England, or vice versal and the latter as those
drawn by one person -on another, When -both, drawer and
drawee reside within the same kingdom. Chitty, p. 16, and the
oilier writers(b) on bills -ofexdhange are to the same effect;
and all of them agree, that until the statutes of 8 and 9 W.
.U. ch. 17, and 3 and 4 derne, ch. 9, which placed these two
kinds .of bills- upon- the same .footing, and subjected inland
bills to the, same. law and custom of hnerchants which governed foreign bills; the latter were much more regarded in
-the eye-of the law than the former, as-being thought of more
public concern in-the advancement of trade and commerce.
Applyifig this definition to the political character of the
several states of this .union in relation to each other,.we are
all clearly of opinion; that bills drawn in one of these states,
upbn persons living in any other of them, partake of the
character of-foreign bills, and ought so to be treated. For
all natiorial purposes embraced by the federal constitution,
the states and the citizens, thereof are one, united under the
same sovereign authority, and governeil by the same laws,
In all other respects, the'states are necessarily foreign to,
and independent of each other. Their conistitutioqs and
forms of governmdnt being, although republican, alt6gpther
different, as are their laws and institutions. This sentment
.(a) Vol. 11.467.
(b) Bayley, Eyd.

JANUARY, TERM 1829.-.

59i

[Buekner vd. Finley & Van Lear.3"

was expressed, with great 'orce, by the president'or the court
of appeals of.Virginia, in.
the case- of Warder vs. Arrell, 2
Waslr..298; where lie states,,that in cases of contracts, the
laws. of a foeign -country, where the contradt was:made,
must govern; and then adds as. follows-" The same. prficiple applies, though with no gr.a.ter lbrc, to the different
sta-teg of Amdrica; for th.ough they form a confederated go,vernment, yet the several states retain their..individual'sovereignties, and; with respect to their municipal- regulations,
are to -each other foreign."
This .character of the.laws of.one state in relation to the
others, is strongly'exemplified -in
thq particular.subject up)der consideration; which is governed, aq to the necessity -of
protest and rate of damages, by different rules in the diiferent states. In nonb of these laws howeverso.far as we can dis.cover from Griffith's Law Regist r,.to which we.were referred
by the ciounsel,'except-those of Virginia, are bills, drawn. in
.one state upon another, designated. as inland; although the
damages.allowed upoh protested bills'of that description, are
generally, hnd with great propriety, lower ihan upon bills
drawn upon a country foreign to the United States, since
the disappointment aind injury to the-h6lder must always be
gre'ater in the latter, than. ini the forrmer case, Itis 'for -the
same reason, no doubt, that,-by the laws of most of the states,
bills drawn in and .upon the -same state, and .protested, are
either exempt from-damages, altogether, or the rate is lower
upon them,. than upon. bills drawn on some other of. the.
states.
The, only case, which was -ited at the bar, oi which.has
come to our knowledge, to 'sh "' that a bill drawn in one
state upon a. person in any other "fthe states, is an inland.
bill, is that of Miller vs. Hackley, 5 Jdhns. Rp. 375. Alluding to this case, in the third volume of his Commentaries,
p. .63, in a note, Chancellor'Kent remarks very truly, that the
opinion was not-given on the point on which .the decision.
rested; and he -adds, that it was rather the opinion of Mr
Justice Van Ness than that of the court.- It is not Unlikely,
besides, -that that opinion was, in no small degree, influenced
by what is said by Judge Tucker in a note to 2 Black. Com.

, 0.2

9SUPREME COURT.
[Buckner vs. Fifiley &Van Lear.]

467; which was mach relied upon.by one of the counsel in
the argument, wherethe author would appear to define an
inland bill, as being one draewn by a person residing in one
state on anothier within the 'United States. He is so understgod by Chancellor Kent, in the passage' which has been*
referred to: but this is undoubtedly by a mistake, as the note
manifestly refers' to, the laws -of Virginia; and by an act of'
that state, passed on the 28th of December 1795; it is expressly declared,. that all biIls of exchange drawn by any,
person residing in that state, bn a person inr the -United
States, shall be considered in all cases as inland bill. The
case of Miller vs. Hackley, therefore, can hardly be considered as an authority fo'r the position which it.was intended
ro.maintain., We think it cannot be so considered by the
courts of New 'York, since the principle supposed to be decided in that case, would .seem to be. directly at variance
with the uniform decisions of the same courts upon.the subject
of judgments rendered'in the'tribunals of the s ster states.'
,In the case of Hitch*cock vs. Aicken, I Gaines, 460, all the
judges seem to have treated those judgments asforeign in
the. :courts of :New York; and the only point of difference
between them grew out of the construction of the 1st section
of the 4th article of th3 constitution of the United States,
and the act of congress of the" 26th of May 1790,-ch. 38,"
respecting-the effect of those judgments, and the credit to
be given to them in the courts of the sister states.
-it woduld"seem-from a note to the case of Bartlett vs.
Knight,4 ,Mass. Rep. 430, where a collection of state decisions on the same subject is-given; that these judgment's had
generally, if not universally, been.'considered.as foreiga by
'the courts of many of the states. If this be so, it is difficult
:to.understand' pon What principle bills of exchange drawn
in' one state opqn.an6thei sta-te 'can be considered as inlaad;
unless in a. state whdre they are' de.clhrtd-to be such by a
stattite of ihat state.
It has noi been our good foitune to see khe case of' Duncan.

Course,
8vs.

I *SouthCarolina Constitutional'Reports, 100;

but-tbe note -aboveL referred to in.3 Ke'it's Coin, informs us,
that it decides that bills of 'this descrlption are, to be consi-

JANUARY TERM- 1829.
[Buckair us.. FinIeY & Van'Lear.3.

dered in the -light ofioeign-bills; nd-the Jearned commentator. goncltude., upon., the: whold, and prindipglly.upon .the
ground of the: decision just quoted; that the-,weight of Amerikanath'6rity:is, on .that side;
Thatit i so,-in.repect- to the necessity of pratsring b'ilIs'
'of. tht descriptini was not' very strdnunusly coiltrverted
bh.the c6un'el;:for .thedefendant. But he insists, that -under
"a.jist.constructio of the 1-th section-of the judiciary-act"
cbn e ning-the jiursdictiori of
ot.federabuourts;.these bills
,.bughf'fo be' tonsidered -andtreated as inland. 'The drgumeri is, that the niischief inteded, to b.e rmedr4ied-.by.the
ptov.sionsin.t.e. lat.er:'ipC of -that section, by:thie.ssign*ment is; .pr.imiss6 ry. notesh'-ait'her chosea iy -adtion. is -the"
"ame in relatir.r.o bills of-exchange of tlieche'arcter under
cqnsideration.
SWe'are Qf a different. opinion. The policy which.probably"
dictated ibis provision in the above "se6tion,-wa.-jo prevent
frauds upon. the jurisdiction of those courts by pretended
assignrnients of bonds, notei,i.d-bills. of. exchange strictly.
ihland; and fithes' eidences *of. debt geherally.*ocern,
the internal negotiations'of thoinliabitants of the same state,.
aid-would,'eldomfind- their way-fairly into the. hands of
.personp-sialngn-another state;the rohibtiorn as.to'them
-wotald iimposbavdy ..rifling'restiiction, if any,. upqn the
commercial- intercourse of.the: iffereht states with .aaoh
other,- . l-is quitq.otherwise as- to'bills drawn in one state
upon angther.. They ansWer'all the pmrposes of remittances,
.bl .of comrercial. failities,, equally with bills drawn upon.
other countrs, or vice versa;. and if a-choice ofjurisdictions
•e iportan to the credit of bills. 1of -the latter class, Which"

it undoubtedly is, it.rmust be equally. so td tibt of.the former.
'dded Iie. ..es Pn-.for' restfainiig the .ransfet -of other.
-Nor.

-

%phoses in aotibn, app'y to bills of -exhange of this descriptin;...whih,'fr thei- commer'cial. cI.aracfei, might be expeted to paps: fairly into thi hands - of persons fesidin g in

the different itafes.of.the union.. We conclude upon the
-

whole,':thatin no point of view ought ;hey -to be cohsidered
.other vise.,than. as foreign bWils ° '
Vor. IL.--3Z •

594

SUiIEME COURT.
[Buckner vs. Finley & Van Lear.]"

This cause came, on to be heardon. the transcript of the
record from the circuit -court: of the United States- for the
district of Maryland, and :n-,.the questions and points on.
which the judges of ,the said circuit court were'oppQsed in
opipio , and which were certified to-this Court for its opinion,
and was argued by counsel; onconsideration whereot it isY
the opinion of this Court that the bill of exchange on which
this action is-brought, ought to be considered.a's a fdreign
bill within the meaning of the 1lth sectiob of the j'udiciary
act.of the 24th of September 1787, aild that the said circuit
court has jurisdiction of this cause; whereupon it is considered,' ordered and adjudged by this Court, that it b6.,certified to. the said circuit tourt for.the district of Marylaid,
that the bill-of 'exchange on which-. this action 'is .brdught,
odght to be consideredas a foreign bill, within the-meaning
of the 1-th.section of- the jdfthe
24th of September 1787: and that that ' court. has juisdiction of the
causeCa):
(a).The opinion of Mri Jus6cd WASH rOTON, in th& case of Lonsdale vs.
Brown, in which the7,same point was ruled, in the ciicuitfcourt 'of the Uni(td
States for the eastern distiiet of Pennsylvania, will bt. found in the 'appendix,
'No. 1M."

