JANUARY TEIRM 1829.

THo~rsoN WILoN AN D OTHERS, PLA.NTIFFS IN ERROR- vs. THE
BLACK'BIRD CREEK MA Rsn CorPAi ,y, DEFENDANTS.
This Court has frequently decided, that to sustain its jurisdiction in.appeals and
writs of error, it is not necessary to state, in terms, upon the record, that the
constitution, or a law of the United States was drawn in question. It is sifficient to bring the case within the provisions of the 25th section of the judicial
act, if the re.cord shows that the constitution or a law of theUnited Stajes must
have been misc6nstrued, or the' decision could not have been made; br that
the constitutionality of a state law"was questioned,- and the decision was in
in favour of theparty claiming under such law. [250]
. ,
The act of the assembly of the state of Delaware, by which the construction of
the dam erected by the plaintiffs was authorlsed, shows'plainly that. this is one
of those many creeks passing through a ddep level marsh, adjoining the Delaware, up which the tide flows for some distance. The value of the property
on its banks, must be enhanced by excluding the water from the marsh, an;"
the health of the inhabitants pr6bably impr9ved . Measures calculated to produce these objects, provided they do-not come in collision with the powers of
the general government, are, unlobbtedly, within those which are reserved to
the states. But'the measure authorised by this act, stops a navigable creek,
and must be supposed to abridge the rights -of those who have been acCustomed to use it. But this abridgement, unless it comei in co'nflict with the
constitution, or a law of the United States, is an affair between the-govern,merit of Delaware and its citizens; of which thi§ Couirt cantake" no cognizance. [251]
If congress had passed any act, in execution of the power to regulate commerce,
the object of which was, to control state legislation over these small navigable
creeks, into which the tide ebbs and flows, and which abounl throughout the
lower country of the. middle and southern states; we should feel not much
difficulty in saying, that a state law coming in conflict with such act would be
voiL But congress-has passed no such act..- The repugnancy of the law of
Delaivare is placed entirely on its repugnancy to the' law to regulate comigerce with foreign nations,'and among the several states; a power which has
not been so exercised, as to affect thisquestion. [252]

THIS was a writ of error to the high court of errors and
appeals of the stAte of Delaware.

The Blae'k Bird Creek Marsh Company were incorporated
by an act -of the general assembly.of Delaware, passed in
February 1822-; and the owners and possessors of the marsh,

cripple, and low grounds-in-Appoquinimink hundred, iii New
Castle -county, and state 'of Delavare, lying on both sides of
Black Bird Creek, below Mathews's landing,-and- extending
to the river Delaware ;"were -authorised and empowered to

246

SUPREME COURT.
. [Willson and others vo. The Black Bird Creek Marsh Company.]

make and construct a. good and sufficient -dam across said
creek, at such place as the managers or a, majority of them.
shall find to be most.suitable foi.the purpose; and alsoq to
bank the said marsh, cripple, and low ground, &c.
.After the passing of this act.°theo company proceeded to
erect and place in the creek a dam, by which.the.nayvigation of the creek was'.obstructed ;.also embanking .tlie'creek,
and carrying into execution all the purposes of their in.corporation.
The defetidants being ihe .owners, &c. of a sloop called
the Sally, of 95 9.5ths tons, regularly lipensed and enrolled
according, to the tiavigation laws of the United.Staikes, -broke'
and injured thle dam so erected by the company; and there,
upon an.action of trespass, vi et armis,.was instituted agaiust
them in ihe supreme court of the stte bf Delaware, in whi*h
damages were claimed-amounting to $20,000..' To the de-

claration filed in the supreme, court, *the defendants filed
three pleas; the first only of w tich. being noficed by theCourt in their decision, the second.and third are omitted.
This plea was iii the following terms:
1. That the lIace Where the supposed trespass is alleged
to have been committed, was, and still is, part and'parcel of
said Black Bird' Creek, a public and common navigabfe
creek, in the nature of a highway,.in which the tides have
always flowed and re-flowpd; in which there Was, and of right
ought to have been, a certain common and public way, in
the nature of a highway, for all. the citizens of the state of
Delaware and of the United States, with sloops or Other vessels to navigate, sail, pass and repass; into,-over, through,
in, and upon the same, at .all.times 6f the year, at their own
free will and pleasure.
" Tberefore the said defendants, being citizens of the state
of Delawarp and'of the United States, with the said sloop,
saile4 in and upon 'the said creek,-iin which, &c; as they.lawfully might for the cause aforesaid. arid because the said gum
piles, &c. bank and dam, in the said declaration mentioned,
&c. had been wrongfully erected, and were there wrongfully
continued standink, and being in and across said navigable
creek, and obstructing the same, so. that without pulling up,.

-

JANUARY TE
[Willson-anc, others VS.

-

1..29.

:247

The Black.'BOCnreek Marsh'Compjapi.]

cutting, breaking and ,destroyitig the. said gum piles,, &ci'
bank and dam respectively "the- said defendants- could not
pass ,and .repass 'with the said-sloop, intoi'through, over,, and
along the said navigable creek.. -And that -the defendants,
in order- to remove the said -obstructiofis, pulled .up,' cut,,
.broke'i .&c;fe in the. said *declaration-mentioned) -doing-no
bnne cesgaiy.-.damage to the .said Black Bird'Creek'.Mash
&c.Company*;, which :is the, same. supposed trespass,
The plaintffs, in ihe supreme. court of the state, demurred
.kenerallyio all' the plea.; -and the court 'sustained the dein.urrers, hnd gave judgment in :th'eir favour. ,This judginent.
was' affirmed in the court of appeals, and -therecord remanded,' for'the p'urposeof having the danges assessed by a jury.
Fipa-.judgment having been entered. on 'the verdict of: the
jury, it was. again carried to the court.of appeats, whei.e it
wap affirmed, and'was n*ow.brought-'before this -Court, by
the-defendants in that court,, for its review.
'The. c6e wag -argued. for the plaintiffs in"error y .r
.Coxe; and by Mr-Wirt attorney general,'for the-defendanis.
Mr .Coxe. insisted- that- the redord contained "cas n
which' the-contitutionality of alaw of the state .of-Delaware
had been..bought-into.question ; and the :decision- of .the
highest tribunal of the -state-had b,:ien in -favour of.its qonstitutionality.. Tnder the 'provisions of the' 25th section- of
the judiciary law, .his case- i' thprefore; protected befere
this Court.It.fnay-be, admitted 'that oth6r- questions were presented':
to.the courts of. Delaware...: As.the act incorporating. the.
defexidants in' error was subsequently, in part, repealed;
thoge courts had'before them other- 4uestions arising under
the repealing statute. B.t-he contended, that upon the',authority of many -cases dedided in this Court) -there was sufficient apparent on the record, to show that. the constitutionalily of the law.to.,which the plaintiff-in error objects, must
.. have been decided- before those tribunals.
It has been iepea-tedly held, that to give this.Court jurisdiction it is ntt necessary that the 'constitutionality of the
law- shall have been- specially questioned before the I.ate

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilson. and others os; The Black Bird Creek Marsh Company.]-

court. If upon extminatioh of the record it,shall be found.
that unless the :court should have held the law- to-be cQnstitutional, they-couldnot hqve given the judgment-pre.ented
by 'the xecord, it is sufficient to maintain -the jtrisdiction
here, -underthe aci of congress.
-Mr Coxe contended that the judgment of the -high-dourt
,oferrors and appeals waserroneous, because the-act of the
general assembly -of the state of Delaware, so far *as -the
,same-authorized the company to shut up and embank acrbss
a*navigable stream, below the ebb and flow of the:tidei is:
repugiant to the constitution of the United. States; and
vt destroy
c'dnferred no valid authority upon the
-ompaniy

thie:navigation of the creek. -He al'so. considered the second.
act of -the legislature of Delaware as a repeal dof the provisiont of the first law. .The Court not having notice'd this
point in their decision, the argufuents of coungel upon it e'e
omitted.
The first plea having stated tlie:river to be'navigable, it
is against the principles of the*conimon law'to obstruct it..
10 .Mass. Rep. 70.

The rights' of navigation are public'

right s,. belonging 'to- all the citizens of 'the United States.
The use of them is necessary for'the purposes of commerc
to the whol; people-of the-United States.
Navigable-8treams. are the waters of the United' States.
FhdatM 17.
]e ufged -that the constitutional power of congress to
H
regulate commerce,- includes navigation ; and the states are
by .this provision deprived of the -power of closing a naviga-"
ble river. In ihis case, the slo6p was alicened-and enrolled
vessel to barry on the, coasting tradei and she wis unlawfuily 'and unconstitutionally .impeded ill the use of her

license, 'by-the darn - erected by t m defendants, under tire
-unconstitutional act of. the assembly 6f Delaware.
The statute of'Delaware does not look to the preservation
d the--he'alth of the -citizens of 'the- stafe; but -to.private
em6luiment.
Upon the right ofnavigation beingjuspubliewu, Mr'Co*e
'cited Coop.'Justinivm,f8. olngel;15. Yattel, 178, Lib. Lsec.

JANUARY TERM' 1829.

249

[Willson and dthers vs. fhe'Black.Bird Cireek Marsb Coripany.]

9

I. Halstecd, 72, 76.

Angel- 167-.

Rargrave's

V ollectm; 96, 74, 87.- He relied on the decisiQn of this
Court in Gibbons vs. Ogden; 9'Wheaton, 187,-as a eonclu
sive authority'.for.'ihe Plaintiffs in- r'or.
If Delaware hs no right to restrainparticulkr vessels from
using her' navigable streams, she -cannot stop the navigation,
of those streams.
Mr Wirt,- for the defendants,..contended that the record
does not present aease in whi~chtthis Coi'rthas Jurisdlction.
The courts of Delaware might have debided in-favour of the.
defendants "in error: without sustaining -the constitutionality
of the act of-incorporation:- and this Cotirt.will n6t assuie
that the question was decided, if upon other- grounds- the
opinioh of the state court couldbe'm intaihed. "n Mathe&ws
vs. Zane, the Court held that -the question of constitutionality must have arisen inevitably. D oes the. act authbrising
the erection 'of this dam violate the con'siftution of the'United Statsq It is admitted that the-creek was nivigable;
and that the -tiearn was a public Iighway§ Butit is asked
whether the legislature of a state may not stop up a.public
highway within the .te'rritdries of the ptate -.
Pariamdnt, in
England, @xercises-.the power to -stop.up .reams,' Wvhich-aw
"public highways. 4 Bar.,4.. Cress. 589.:
It cannot be urged that th. power to.'regulate commercecan interfere 'with the rights of the statesover the property
within-their boundaries. Wliile 'the Wafers-of'the: Unifed
States-belong to the whole people.of the nation, this creek:subject to the power-of the-state in whose ferri?tory it..
rises." -It is one of Those sluggisb reptile streams,that do not xdn .but creep, and'which,:.wherever it passes,.
-spreads its-venom, and destroys the healtif of all those who
'inhabit its marshes; and can. it be asseited, that a law -authorising the erection of a dEm, and the formation of bahns
which wili'draw off the pdstilence, and ,ive%to those who
have before suffered from-disease, health and vigour, is uniorstitutional 7:"
"The *powergive by the constitution to. congress to regulate commerce, may not be ex-ercised -to' preyent such neaVOL. I.--2.G'

-contibiued

SUPREME COURT.
[Willson and others vs. The Black bird Creek.Marsh Company.]

sures ; and there has been no legislation by congress under
the'constitution,'with which the proceedings of the defend.ants under the law of Delawarehave interfered.
Mr Chief'Justic. MARSHALL delivered the opinion-of the
Court.
The defendants in error deny the jurisdiction of this
Court, because, they say, the record does not show that the
constitutionality of the act of the legislature, under which
the plaintiff claimed to support his action, was drawn into
question.
'Undoubtedly the plea might have stated in terms that the
act, so far as -it authorized a dam acros8 -the creek, was repugnant to the constitution of the United. States; and it
might have -been safer, it might have avoided any question
respecting jurisdiction, so to frame it. But we think it im-.
possible to doubt that the constitutionality of the act was
the question, and the only question, which could have been
discussed in the state court. That question must have been
discussed and- decided.

The plaintiffs sustain their right to'build adam across.the
creek- by the act of assembly. Their declaration is. founded
upbn.that act. The injury of which they, complain, is to a
'right given by it. -They do not claim for themselves any
right independent of it. They rely entirely upon the act of
assembly.
The plea does not controvert the existence of the act,
but denies its capacity.toauthorjse the construction- of a
dam across a navigable stream, -in *hich the tide ebbs and
flows; and in which there was, and of right, ought to:have
been, a certain common and public 'Way in. the natu re of a"
highway. This plea draws nothing into question bat the
validity of.the act; and the judgment'of the court upust have
been in favour of its vdlidity. 'Its consiste'ncy with, or. repugn'ancy to the constitution of the.United States, necessarily arises upon these pleadings, anid must have been determined.. This Court has repeatedly decided in favour of its
jurisdidion in such a case. "Martih vs. Hunter's lessee(a),
(q),1 Wheaton, 355.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

251

[Willson and others.vs. The'Black Bird Creek Marsh Company.]

Miller vs. Nicholls(b), and Williams. vs-. Noris(c); dm expressly in point. Tfiey'.establish, as far as precedenlts canestablish any thing, that it is not necessary to stiate in terms
on the record, that the constitution or a law of the United:
States was drawn in question. It is sufficient to bring the
case ivithin- the provisions of the 25th section of the judicial
adt, if the record shows, that. the constitution or a law or a.
treaty of the United States must have -een misconstrued;
or the decision could .not be made. Or, .ag'in 'this case,
that the constitutionality of a state law was questioned, and'.
the.decision has been in favour 6f the party claiming under
such liw.
The jurisdiction of the Court being established, the more
doubtful question- is-to be considered, whether'the act incorporating the Black Bird Creek' Marsh Company is repugnant tb the constitution, so far' as it authorizes a dam acioss
the creek; The plea states the .creek to be navigable) in
'the fiature of a highway, through which, the.tide' ebbs and
flows'
The act of -assembly by which the plaintiffs were, autho-.
rized -to cpnstruct their dam, shows plainly that this is one
of those many creeks, passing -through• a deep level marsh
.adjoining the: Delaware,- upwhich.'the tide flows -for some
distance. The value of the property-on its banks-must be
enhanced. by 'excluding the water from the marsh, and the
h'ealth of the inhabitants probably improved. Measures calculated to produce these objects; provided they do not come info
collision with. the, powers, of. the general government, ,are
undoubtedly. within those which are reserved to the states.
'But the me~sure a'uthorised by this act stops a-navigable
creek, and must -be supposed*to abridge the rights 'of those
who have been accustomed to. use it. fBut this. abridgemQut, unless it comes -in con'flict with thie constitution'.or a
I"w of'the United'Statds, is an affair between the government of Delaware and its citizens, of which this Court can
take no-cognizance.
The"counsel for the plaintiffs in error insist that it comes
(b) 4 Wheaton, $11.

(c) .12 Wheaton, 117.

252

SUPREME COURT.
[Willson and others vs. The Black Bird Creek Mfarsh Company.]

in conflict-with the power of the United States " to regulate commerce with foreign nations iad among the several
states."
If congress had passed any act which bore jipon the,cAse;
any act in execution of, the power- to regulate cQmmerce,
the object'-of which was to control state legislation over
those small navigable.creeks into which.the tide flows, and
whidh abound throughout the .lower country of' the middle
and 'southern states ; w.e should feel not much -difficulty in
saying that a state lav coming- in conflict with siuch act
would be void. But congress has, .pased no Such act.
The repugnancy of the law of DelawaTe to the constitution
is placed entirely on its repugnancy to the powerto regulate
commerce with foreign nations ,and among' the several
states,; a power which has not been-so exercised as'.to affect
th .questibn.'
We do not think that the act empowering the Blak Bird
Creek' Marsh Company to place a. dam, across the creekcan, under '11 the circum'stAnces of the case;, be'cohsidered
as repugnant to' the power t regulate commerce in its dormant statei 'or'as being in conflict with any law -passed on
the subject.
There is no error, and, the judgment is affirmed.
This cause c~Ane-on to be heard on the -transcript of the
record from'the high court of errors.and-appeals of the.state
of Delaware, and was argued by eounsel; on consideration
whereof this Court is of Opinion,. that there is no error in
the judginent of the',said high court of errors and appeals of
the state of Delawar6; whereupon it is considered,.ordered'
and adjudged-'by this Court, that the judgment of thp-, said
court in this cause, be, and the same is,. hereby affirmed
with cost.-

