SUPREME COURT.

CAIYDIuS

F. LE GRAIM,

APPELLA3sT v8. NIcHoLAs DABNAZL,
PELLEE.

AP-

The act of the legislature of Maryland, passed in 1796, ch. 47, sec. 13, 4eclares"that all persons'capable in law to make a valid will and testament, may grant
freedom to, and effect 'the manumission of apy slaie or slaves belongingto
such person or perso'ns, by his, her, or theirJ3st will and tbstament, and 'such
manumissiolt of any'slave or sldves may be made to take effect at the death of
the testator or testators, or at such other period as may be limited in such lastwill and testament; provided always, that no manumission by last will and testament shall be effectual to give freedom to any slave or slaves, if the same
shall be to the prejudice b6fcredltorsi nor unless.the- said stave or slaves shall be
under the age of forty-five years, and able to work and,gain, a sufficient
maintenance and7ivelihood at the time the freedom given shall commence."
The time 'of freedom'of the appellee in this case, commenced when he Was
about eleven years old. "Held, that his-maiumission by will was ialfd.
The court of appeals tf Maryland, has decided that a deviie of property real
or personal by a master tb his.slave, entitles-the slavqto hih freedom by necessary implication. This'Courf entertains the same opinion, [670]

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States, for
the district of Maryland.
The facts of the case appear on the argument of the counsel for the appeUee, and in the opinion of the Court.

Mi Taney, for the appellant, stibmitted the case without
argument; stating, that i ' had been brought up merely (n
account of its great importande -to the apiellee;which rendered "it desirable that the opinion -of the supreme court
should be hid on. the matters in controversy.
Mr Stewart, for the appellee.

The case presented by 'the bill, answers and depositions,
is as follows.
Bennett Darnall, of Ann Arundel county,-in the state of
.Maryland, by his will dated August 4th, 1810, devised to his
son, Nicholas Darriall, the defendant in this case,'certain.

lands lying in the 'county and state aforesaid.
The-mother of the said Nicholas was the slave of the tes-

tator,.afid Nicholas was -born a slave to his father..

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Le Grand vs. DarnaU.3

Bennett Darnall, in his will, refers to two deeds of manumission executed by him, one in 1805 and the other in 1810,
in both of which it sedins Nicholas was included witli other
slaves designed to be emanipated.by these deed. By some
omission, neither of these deeds are exhibited.
The testator made two codicils -to his will, the last. of
which is dated January 20th, 18'14, and was. proved before
the register of wills, January 31st, 1814.- Bennett Dfirnall
must therefore have died in ,January 1814. Nicholas Darnall, the defendant, sold-the land referred to in the proceedings, to Le Grand the comllainfant, and it appears. by the
agreements&dihibited with the bill, that at the time the contrdct was first made, neither party supposed there Vas any.
question abbut the title. But afterwards, it seems, doubts
were suggested to. Dariall, which he communicated'to L'
Grand, and the agreementi above mentioned were thereupofi
made with ftll knowledge on both sides of the su.pposed
,defect~ii the title, and were framed with..reference'-to it.
Le Grand gave his notes for the purchase money, according to the agreement and a-suit'was br6ught on one of them,
and judgment recovered in-the circuit court for the district
of Maryland; whereupon he filed- his- bill in that court,
praying an injunction on the ground that'Darnall was unable
to convey him a good title to the land.
The defect supposed to exist, and 'alleged in the bill, is
this; that Dirnall was not moie than ten years of -age at the
time of his father's death, and at that tender age was unable
to work and gain a, sufficien, maintenance ;ind livelihood,
and was incapable therefore of receiving manumission by
the laws of Maryland.
Th6 answer of Nicholas Darnall insists that he was, at the
tim''e of the testator's death, able to work and gain a sufficientlivelihood and maintenance.
F our witnesses were examined.
John Mercer ahd 'Robert Welch, prove that Nicholas was
about eleven years of age at the time of his father's death,
and-describe him as a fine, healthy, intelligent boy, able by
his work to maintain himself. Dr James.Stewart and Samuel
VOL. II.-4 I

6 (6

SUPREME COURT.
:[Xd Grand v8; Darni]l

Moor. statetht boys of eleven years .of age in Maryland
are able' to. support themselves by their. own labouir, ard
specify the kind, of work in; which they, niay be usefully employed.
Upoi. this answer arnd evidence, the Court dissolved -the
injunction and dismissed th, bill.
- Itis proper to say, that the. whole of' these proceedings.

have beefi amicable ;. that Ld Grand, is .willing to pay if hi'
.titl4 is a .safe one; :ind that Darnall does not wish Le Grand
to py unless he'cn .make..a good title to him. -By the act of 1796, chap. 67,*sec, 13, slaves may be manumitted ii Maryland, by last.will ;,provided'they be" under
*fotty-five'years. of age, and able'to work and gain a sufficient maintenance and livelihpoc; at the time the freedom
givei.-shall conmence;
Inthe case of-Hall vs. Mallin,' 5 Harris 8f Johnt. Igo,
-the court'of appeals .have 7decided that a devise of property
j;eal.'& personal, by a.maste, o'hisS'slave, entitles the slave
to his-freedom; by becegary implication.
.Under this -decision,thet'Wl ofBennett Darnall gave freedom to Nicholas, provided: he ..
was -iii.a condition to receive
itat the -testator's death. .The :omission :therefore to produce,,th deids of manumission is not-mateiial. If they are
regarded as not proei, ot as not.effectivie for the purpose
inteniled, still the defendnt-'may ely on'his title under the
will,
In the ecase of Hamilt'oThs".v8.Crag-g, 6- 1arria4Sf
Johns. 16,
'it was held that -an,infant slave (only three. years'*of age at
the.time of.the death of-.e teStator Who attempted to manu-.
mit: him), unable -to gain'a- sufficient maintenance and livelihood, could.not.be manumitted, It was-this decision that
ereated the doubt in.regard to the title of Nicholas Darnall5
for until that- case was, decided, it had been generally supposed that this provision in the-statute. was intended to guard
against themanumission of slaves who, although under fortyfive years of age, were suffering under incurable diseases or
constitutional, infirmities which would most probably always
disahle-them -from maintaining themselves by their- own
labour, and ,make them a charge upon thq public. It had

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Le Graid vs. Darnall.]

not been generally'.supposed to apply to the case- of children
for whose 'maintenance provision could perhaps always be.
made by binding them to serve as apprentices, and especially was considered inapplicable, to those children f6r
whose suppori abundant provision was made by the testator,.
who gave the'freedom.
But without attempting- to disturb the authority of- that
case, the proof in 'ihis cause brings 'it expressly .within the
principie 'decided in. Hamilton vs. Cragg; . and-.entitles the
party to his freedom. The defect -of .title alleged in: the
bill is consequently without foundatiip, and- the decree of
the court below fully iustified.
Mr Justice DtvALL. delivered the opinign of the Court.

This case is brought up - by appeal. from a.depree of the
circuit court for the district of 'Maryland, sitting as a court
of equity; and -is -submitted on written argument. The
principal facts are.the following.
Benfiett Darnall, late of AnneoArtindel ,oupty, Maryland,
on the 4th day of August 1810, duly made and -executed his
last will and testament, and thereby devised to his son, the
appellee, -several tracts of land in fee,. one of which was
called Portland Manor,- containing by estimation five hundred and ninety six acres. The mother of Nicholas ' Darnali was the -slave of the testator, and Nicholas was born
the slave of his father, dnd was' bqtween ten. and elev'en
years. old at the. time of.-the diath Pf the. testator.- Bennett
Darnall, in his wilf, refers to' and confirms ;two deeds of
manumission executed-* by him;. one bearing- date in. 1805,
and the other in 1810. In both of thiose deed , Nicholag
Darnall and a number of other slaves were .included, and
emancipated .after his decease. The testator died in the
month of January 1814.
'Nichols Darnall, on his arrival to full. age,. took possession Of the propierty devised to him, and on the 26th of April
1826 he entered into a contract with Le Grand the appellant
forhe'sale of the tract called Portland Manor for the consideration of tiventy-two dollars per' acre, amounting -to the
sum of thirteen thousand one'htndred and twelve dollars,'

668

SUPREME CQURT.
[Le Grand 's, DarnaIL]"

payable by agreement, in six annual payments with interest.
Le Grand passed his'notes pursuant-to the terms of the
agreement, and received' the bond of Darnall to convey to
him the prbperty in fee sinple uponpayment of the'purchase
money. L' Grand was thereupon put into possession of the
land. At the&time the 'contract was made, the parties believed' the title to'the land to-be unquestionable. Soon afterwards, however, doubts, were uggested to Darnall, and
he communicated them to Le Grand, and they entered' into

a supplementaky and conditional agreement, without varying
in substance the origin'al contract.. Darnall was not more than ten or eleven years of age at, the time of the deith of
his father;' and, by a law of the state of Maryland,'it is provided that no manumission by last Will -and testament shall
be effectual to give -freedom to -ny slave, unless" the. said
slave'shall be under the. age of foi ty-five years, and able to'
work anid gain a sufficient maintenance and livelihood at the
time the freedom intended to be given shall take . place..
A decision had lately .been made by the court of appeals
-of Maryland, in thfie case of Hamilton vs. Cragg, that an infant'(whose age-did not exceed two years when his title, to
freedom commenced)-was not able to work and gain a sufficient maintenance and livelihood, and was therefore adjudged to bealslave. This'decisionof the highest court-of
hin
a
the state gave rise to doubts concerning the capability of the appellee to make a good title to the land which
he had sold to the appellant. .Darnall deposited-the amount
of-the first payment,that is to say $000, in the hands of Beinjanin Tuckdr of Philadelphia, to bb held.with the consent
of.the appellant subject to the result of an examination into
'the title. In *consequence of. the- decisioh of the court of
appeals of Marylandi the heir at law of Bennett. Darnall, the"
testator,fmade claim to the, land, and threatened to commence
suit for jhe recoveryof it: Le Grand 1eing:'alarmed about
the title, refused to make any.furiher payment; and an action
was commenced against him,. and judgment recoyered for the'
second payment. T6 prevent an execution and to ascertain,
under all the- circumstances of the case, whether the appel,lee could make a good title to the land'which"he had sold

JANUARY T$lRM 1829.

669

[Le Grand v. Darnall.]

to him, Ie filed lhis bill of complaint-in equity; in..the, circuit.
court, "stditing the circumstances, and'obtained an injunctionJ.
against any further'proceedings at law. The appellee put
in his answer,admitting all the facts sfated in the bill, except*
that of his inability'to 'gain a'mainiepnance and liveliM'odd.by'.
labour, when his right to freed6M commeficed. The case
Was submitted to the'court upon the bill- -answer, e~hibits
arid.proof which had- been- taken ; and the'court, upon dueconsideration, ordered, -the' injunction to be dissdl.ved, and.
.decreed the bill to.be dismissed. From.this decree;.anap.peal was taken to this, Court, and, the -cause is, no to, be
finally decided.
,.There is-onequestion onlyto be discussed.- Ifthe-appellee, at the -time of the .death of- the testator, was entitled to
his freedom-bnder' the will and deeds of manimission.beforb
mentioned, thep-'his title to the land sold Was unquestionable.
His claim to freedom inder- the instruments -aboie referred
to depends.upon a just consjruction'of the -et of. the legislature of.Maryland, passed in .the ydar 179.6,.ch, 47, sect. 13.
The words of the act are these: "that all 15ersuns.capable
in -law to make a valid will and testament;. may-grant freedom to,, and effect- the manumission of any slave.'or slves
-belonging to. such person orpersons,'by his her or their last
will and testament; and such manumisioif of any slave or
slaves may be made'to take effect at the deaih of the eastator or testators, or at such.other period'as maybe limited in
strwh last will and testameni; provided always, that no manurhission by last -will ahd testamenti shall. be. effectual to
give freedom to 'any -slave or slaves,, if the 'same shall -be tb
prejudice of creditors'; nor "unlesg ihe Said- -slae orslaves
shall be.under the -ge of forty-five years, and able to. work
and gain a &ufflCienimaintenance aahd livelihood a the time
the freedom giveh shall commence.". The time of the freedoa of th :appellee commen.ced'immediately'afterthe death
of the -testator, when, according to the. evidence he was
about eleven years'old. Four respectable witnesses of the
njeighbourhood -.were exandined. They all agree in'.their testimony, that Nicholas was' wel grown, healthy and intakJi'gent, and.of good bodily an'mental capacity: that "he-aii

.670:

SUPREME COURT.
[Le Grand vs. Darnall.]
could2

..his .brother'Henry
readily, hav'e found employment,
'either as house servant boys, or on a farm, or as apprentices;
-And that they were able to-.workand gain ac
livelihood. The
Itestator~devised to each of themh real and personal estate to
a 'considerable amount. 'They hid' "guardians apnoinied,
were well ,educated and Nicholas isnow living in afluence.
Experience' has proved .that he was able to work; and gain'a
silfficient'tniintenance and.livelihood. No doubt as to the
fact has ever been entertained by any -who know himi. Of
course, he was capable 'in law to sell and.dispose of the
whole or any. part of his estate,.and to execute the. necessary
instruments of writing to convey. a sufficient title to the pur-chase.
S"T-he couEt of appeals- of Maryland iithe case df Hale vs.
Mullin, decided, that'a devise'of property redl, or personal
hy a master to his, slave, entities the slave'to his freedom by
necesary implieation. This Court entertains the same opinion.
It is"
not the'ificlinati'on 6f this Court to express any opinion
as to the- chrectnegs of thecdecision of'the court of appeals
of Matyland,'in. ecise of Hamilton 'vs. Cragg.' It is unnPecessary in refbrenceto the case .under cohsideration.'
The decree of-thae circuit court is :affirmed; and by consent of parties without costs.

This .ause came on .to'be he'hrd' on the 'lrafiicript of the
redord from the circuit. eourt.of the United States for th
district of Maryland, and was argued by counsel;-on consideration whereof, it is.
consiaeredj ordered and decreed by
this Court, 'that the decree 'of'the said circuit court in this
cause be and'the same. is hereby affirmed without costs.

