THE DECISIONS
OF

THE SUPREME .COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

JANUARY TERM 1829.

ABnRir.

L.

P-NNOCK & JA-xEs SELLRRs, PLAINTFFs IN ERROR
v8. ADA E DIALOGUr.

The record contains, embodied in the bill of exceptions, the whole of the testimony and evidence offered at the trial of the cause by each party in support
of the issue. It is very voluminous, and as no exception was taken to its
competency or sufficiency, either generally or for any particular purpose;
it is not properly before this court for consideration, and forms an expensive
and unnedessary burthen upon the record. This Court has had occasion, in
many cases, to express its regret on account of irregular proceedings of this
nature. There was" not the slightest necessity of putting anyportion of.the
evidence in this case upon the record; since the' opinion of the court, delivered
to the jury, presented a general principle of law; and the application of the
evidence to it was left to the jury. [15]
It is no ground of reversal, that the court below omitted to give airections -to
.the jury upon any points of law which might arise in the cause, where it was
not requested by either party at the trial. It is sufficient for ,us, that the
court has given no erroneous directions. [16]
If either party considers any point presented by the evidence, omitted in the
charge of the court, it is competent for.such party to require an opinion from
the court upon that point. The court cannot bt. presumed to do more in ordinary cases, than to express its opinion upon questions, which the parties themselves have raised on the trial. [16]
It has not been, altd indeed it cannot be denied, that an inventor may abandon

VoT,.

II.-A

SUPREME COURT.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]
his invention, and surrender or dedicate it to the public. This inchoate right,
thus gone, cannot afterwards be resume4at his pleasure; for when gifts are
once made to the public in this way, they become absolute. The question
which generally arises on trials is a question of fact, rather than of law; whether
the acts or acquiescence of the party, furnish, in the given case, satisfactory
proof of an abandonment, or dedication of the'invention to the public. [16]
It is obvious, that many of the provisions of our patent act, are derived from the
principles and practice which have prevailed in the construction of the law of
England in relation to patents. [18]
Where English statutes, such for instance as the statute of frauds, and the
statute of limitations, have been adopted into otir own legislation; the known
and settled construction of those statutes by courts of law, has been considered as silently incorporated into the acts; or has been received with all the
veight of authority. This is not the case with the English statute of monopolies, which contains a exception, on which the grants of patents for inventions have issued in that country., The language of that clause in the statute
is not identical with the patent, law of the United States; but the construction
of it adopted by the English courts, and the-principles and practice'which
have long regulated the grants of their patents; as they must have been
known, and are tacitly referred to in some of the provisions of our own statute, afford materials to illustrate it. [18]
The true meaning of the words of the patentlaw, "not known or used before the
application ;" is, not known or used by the publzc, before the application. [19]
If an inventor should 65e perrnitted to hold back from the knowledge of the public
the secrets of his invention; -if he should, for a long period of years, retain
the mbnopoly, and make and sell his. invention publicly; and thfis gather the
whole' profits of it, relying upon his superior skill and knowledge of the,
structure 1 andt then, and then only, when the danger of competition should
force him to procure the exclusive right, he should be allowed to take out a
patent, and thus exclude the public from any fuither use, than what shoula'
b'e derived ulndgTit, durifg hs f51Xtieen--ears; it wounimaerily retard the
progress of science and. the useful arts ; and give a premium to those who'
should be least prompt to communicate their discoveries. [19]
If an invention is used by the public, with the consent of the inventor, at the
time of his application for a patent; how can the Court say, that his case is
nevertheless such as the act was intended to protect? If suchn public use is
not ause-within the meaning of the statute; how can the Court extract the
case from its operation, and support a, patent, when the suggestions of the
patentee were not true; and the conditions, on which alone the grant was
authorised, do not exist? [211
The true construction of the patent law is, that the first inventor cannot acquire
a good'title to a patent, if he suffers the thing invented to go into public use,
or to be publicly sold for use, before he makes application for a patent. This
'voluntary act, or acquiescence in the public sale or. use, is an abandonment
of his right; or rather, creates d disability to comply with the terms and condi- ions of the law; on which alone the'secretary-of state'is authorised to grant
him a patent. [23]

3ANUAI-Y TERM 1829.

3,

[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

THIS case was brought before the Court, 'on a writ of
"error
to the circuit court, for the eastern distridt
of Pennsylvania.
In that court, ' the -plaintiffs'in er;or had.instituted their
suit against the defendants, for a'n infringement of a patent
right, for "' ai improvement in the art of naking tubes orhose for conveying'air, water, and other fluids." The invention claimed by the patentees, was in the mode of making the hose so- that the arts so joined together would be
tight, and as capable-of resisting the pressure as any'other
part of the machine.
TJe'bill.of exceptions, which came up with the record,
contained, the whole evidence given in the trial of the'cause
in the cir6iiit court. The invention, 'for which. th& patent
iighi, ws claimed, was completed in-i811; and'the-letters
patent were obtained in 1818.. In-lbis interval,'upwirds 'of

thirteen thousandfeit of hdse, con'ixUcte according to the
invention of the -patefitee, had been nihde and sold'in.'ihe
city bf Philadelphia. Oie.Samuel Jenkins, bk, the pe'inission-f, and undee an agreement beiwee5 ihe plaintiffs as to
the price; had miad and'sold ith hose invented by 4he
plaintiffs, and supplied several hose companies in the city
of, Philidelphia. vith the shme.. Jenkins,!'duririgjiich
of
the time, was. in ihe servide'of ihe'plaiitiffs, nd'hid be~n
instructed by thiem in the art: of"making the hbse. There
was no posiiye evidence, that the agreement bet'we-en Jenkins and the plaintiffs'in error"was known 'to,. 6 c6needled
-from the public. The'plaintiffs,. on the trial' did not allege

o'r offer evidence 'to Prove that thiey hid delayed iiking.
application for-a Pate4t, fo tte.purpose of improvingtheir
invention; or that from 1811 to 1818, any important modi-

fications or alterations had been made"in their riveted 'hose.
The plaintiffs claimed before the ijury, that all the hose
'which had been made and sold tothe public, prior to their
patent; had been .cofistrueted and vehded by Jenkins tnder
their permnssion. .
i Upon the whole'evidence in. the cage, th6 cirtuit court
charged the jury:

SUPREME COURT.
LPennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

"We are clearly of opinion that if an inventor makes his
discovery public, looks on and permits others freely to use
it, without objection or. assertion of claim to the invention, of which the public might take notice-; he abandons
the inchoate right to the exclusive use of the invention, to
which a patent would have entitled him, had it been applied for.before such "u.e. And we think it makes no difference in the principle, that the article 'so publicly used,
and afterwards patented, was made by a particular individual, who did so by the private permission of the inventor.
As long as an inventor keeps to himself the subject of his
discovery, the public cannot be injured: and even if. it be
made public, but accompanied by.an assertion of the inventor's claim to the discovery, those who should make or
use the subject of the invention would at least be put
upon their guard. But if the public, with the knowledge
and the tacit consent of the inventor, is permitted to use
the invention without opposition, it is a fraud upon the public afterwards to take out a patent. It is possible that the
-inventor may not have intended to .give the benefit of his
discovery to the public; and may have supposed that by
,giving permission to a particular individual to construct
for others the thing patented, he could not be presumed to
have done so. But it is not a question of intention, which
is involved in the principle which we have Jaid down; but
of legal inference, resulting from the condtuet of the inventor, and affecting the interests of the public. It is for
the jury to say, whether -the evidence brings this case
within- the principle which has been stated. If it does, the
court is of opinion that the. plaintiffs are not entitled -to a
verdict."
To this charge the plaintiffs excepted, and the jury gave
a verdict for the defendant.
Mr Webster,. for the plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That the invention, being of such "a nature that the
use of it, for the purpose of trying its utility and bringing
it'to perfection, must necessarily be open and public; the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Pennock & Sellers -s. Dialogue.]

implication of a waiver or abandonment of the. right, furnished by such public use, -is rebutted by the .circumstance
that the article was made -and sold only by one individual;

and that individual wa authorized and permitted so to do

by the inventors.. - - - I
2, That the 'use of an invention, however public, if it be
by the permpission and under the continual" exclusive claim
of the inventor;, does not take away his right, ex e pt after
an. unreasonable lapse of time, or gross negligence, in applying, for a patent.
3. That the jury should have been instructed, 'that, if
they found the riveted hose, which was in use by the hose
companies; had been all made 'and sold 'by Jerins',, and -by
nb one else, priot to the grant.of the patent; and that lie
agreement, so
was permitted by the invn.'tors, under thei
to make and sell the same;' that such use of the invention,'
not being adveise to their claim, did not take away their
exclusive riht,.nor imply an abaiid6nm*ent ' of it t9 the
public.
4. That, if they found the hose had not been madeor
sold, prior to the grant of the patent, by any person 'but
Jenkins, then the giving of permission to him,, being in. it-..
self an asserii6n of 'claim,. was not a dedication -to the
public;"and that the piibfic, by purcIhasing'and using the

hose, thus 'na'de by the 1ernission of tie inveitors,'acjuiiedno title to the invention-.bnt, 0A the contrary, if the price
paid included a' pieiuin for'the inienitioi5, the p'ublie'by
so purchasing, admitted the right of the' in6ehitdrs'..
5. That, atny rate, there' being.,no uhe, by. tie pibtic,
of this iriventoni, it should have been left to' the jury, toIsay,
'whether, under all the circumstances, 'considering, thee n'ature of 'the. invention, and'the 'time necessary to p*efect'it;

the plaintiffs hai ebe.en guilty of negligeice', in not soonei
applying'for 'a patent.
Mr'WebSter 'stated, tht'the qu isti oito b' decided by
the 'Court: laid withii -a nhrri "compass.
The"deenQce.- se
up was, that the plaintiffs had'*suffered 'their'inVention to

SUPREME COURT.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

be used before their applicatipn for a patent; and had thus
lost all right to the exclusive use of it.
this case, would be called upon to reverse
The Court, -in
the English decision relative to abandonments; for it wai
admitted, that those cases had gone to the whole extent of
the.principles applied .to this case in the circuit court.
Those cases have decided, that any public use of an'inventioni, even frexperiment, renders it no longer a new machine. In the courts of tho Unitel-States, a more just view
had been taien of the rights of inveintors. The laws of the
Urited States were intended to protect. those rights, and to
cb.nfer benefits; while the provisions iri the statute of England, under which patenis are issued, are 'exceptions to the
law prohibiting monopolies. Hence, the construction of the
British statute had been exceedingly straight and narrow.,
and different from themore liberal interpretation of our laws.
- By the decisions. of our courts, there must be a voluntary
abandonment, or negligence, or unreasonabledelay in obtaining letters patent, to destroy the right of the patentee.
Goodyear vs. Mathews, Paine'sRep.300; Morris vs. Huntington, .d. 348..
that the jury
- The exception to the charge of the court is,
should have 'bben instructed to-decide upon the evidence,
whether the plaintiff meant to abandon- his invention by the
permission to Jenkins to use it. Jenkins musi be considered as the private agent of- the inventors; and their agreement with him;-under which. he madb the hose, is to be
considered rather as an assertion of their exclusive right to
By omitting to leave
the.invention,- than a surrender of it,to the jury this question of an intention-to abandon; the case
was erroneously withdrawn fronf them. The rights of the
parties also entitled them t6 have the causes of their delay
patenting their invention inquired of. by the 'fry. As
iii
the case Ispresented on the bill of exceptions, the court in
their charge undertook.°to state-the wholq law of the subject
matter to the jury; -and the omigsion tb instruct -them on
any one point is.erroi.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

If in this charge of the court any thing is omitted which
was matter of law for the jury, it is misdirection.
In a case in Massachusetts, said to be reported in 4th
Mason's Rep.,- it was left. to the jury to decide whether
seventeen years' delay could be accounted for.
Under the provisions' of the lass 'of the United States,'
the right is created by the invention, and not by the patent.
The court, therefore, may have misled the jury, iii stating
that the plaintiffs allowed the invention to be used. The
thing invented was only permitted to be used.
The suggestion, that by adopting the language of the
English statute, the cases decided in England upon that
stalute are adopted, may be answered by a reference to
those cases. They have all arisen within a few years, since
the enactment of our law; and, except the dictum of Lord
Coke in 2d Institute, the authorities are all of modern date.
If this-Court shall be of opinion, that as no instructions
were particularly asked up6n the-qtqestions raised here, the
court below were not. bound :to notice them in-the charge,.
and that the court did jot undertake to decide the whole
law; the plaintiff in error can make out no case here. -But
if this Court shall- consider the questions. how submitted
doubtful, -as the. rightsEof the plaintiffs may not have been
fully investigated;- by sending the case back to the circuit
court, a more full investigation of all the.points involved
in.it may be madez..'.Mr. Sergeant,-.for'the defendant,, insisted,1. That mere .invention gives no right to an exclusive
use . unless a-patent is obtained- and that if at a time when
no right -is infringed, the public. fairly.acquire possession of
it, the inventor cannot, by, subsequently obtaining a. patent,
takeit away.
-.
2.-,That the-inventor,-by abstaining from getting a patent
encouraged the public, -to use the - article freely, and thus
.benefited-his. own manufactory.- And-he is not-at liberty,
when this advantage is ex4austed,- to turn round, and en-

SUPREME COURT.
[Pennock & Sellers -s. Dialogue.]

deavour to reach, another and a different kind of advantage,
by appropriating the use exclusively to himself.
In the circdit where this cause was tried, it was not
the practice to ask -the court for special instructions to the
jury., After the evidence had been closed, and. counsel
heard, a charge was given to the jury, according to the nature'of the case, upon .the points made by counsel, or whieh
might suggest themselves ,to the mind of the judge. It was
competent, however, to-either party, after the charge, to ask
the opi ion of the court upon any point supposed to have
been omitted, which was material, to'the decision. In this
case, no suc, equest had been made;, and.no objection can
now be made to the charge,,for any imputed omission. The
only question was, whether the plrincijpes laid down to the
jury for.their guidance were correct, and according to law,
in ihe 'Iarticdular
excepted to.
,
The charge must of course b considered 'with reference
to the' fact's, ih'e whole of, which -appear upon the record.
The petition of theplaintiffs to the qeqetary of state stated,.
in thpe words of the patent law, that they were the inventors
of a ' new and useful improvement," "not known or used
before their applia&tn.;' The ' applieation" was madeohin .
which,they
Juiyi8lb': Thir averment tilerefore, upon
taiied- their patent'was, thit' the rivet hose was a new inventio n, 'no t"k'nown or used" before the year
.1818.
The
facts proved upon the trial were, that the invention had been
completed and published in the year 1811, seven years before the applicatioi.' That 'dring'alI that'period it. had
been known.and used as common public pr ,perty, and not
as private property) which any one might use as publicly
know'n.' And. th 't vi"4 sok~no"i and used, with the lin~wledge of, those .whonow clain{'to be th; inventors; withput
any assertion or claim op their part, of exclusive property,
and with out 6tie 6f intention to make such claim. There
was not a single circunisiaiice offered to explain the delay.
There.Ws en attempt to show, that the making of the
article for use, was limited by the authority and permission

JANUARY, TEAM 1829.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

of the plaintiffs, and thence t6 infer that they did not intend
to give it to the public. .A witness, produced by them, aind
the only person who appeared to have made the article,
declared in substance, "that he was taught by the plaintiffs
in 1811 to make hose; that in that year he made a certain
quantity of it for the Philadelphia Hose Company, plaintiffs
being members of the committee; and that by periiission
of the plaintiffs he made about thirteen thousand feet of
hose,, for different hose companies, from 1811 to the time of
granting the patent."
Thus, in point of fact, nearly two miles and a half in length
of hose, had been made at different times in the course of
seven years before the patent; and had been sold to different
hose companies; not to ex'perimdnt with, in order to bring
the invention to perfection; but for public use, as a thing
already -completed, and adapted to the purpose of arresting
the ravages of fire. -It was so used; and from the year 18 1
to the year 1818, it was never materially altered or improved.
The thing patented in 1818 was precisely the thing inventeds
completed and used in 1811.
Were the plaintiffs, under these circumstances,, entitled
to a patent . or could a patent, thus obtained, be supported!
*The authorities upon the subject are decisive. He did not
admit that the weight of judicial or 'legal opinion'in England was lessened- by the suppbsed difference in the -policy
of the two countries, or that in fact any such difference existed'. . It was true, that the process or mode of legislation
"was varied according to the existing state of things. The
statute of James was made to abolish monopolies; but it
saved, by exception, the rights of the inventors of new and
usefitl inventions, who hadbefoie enjoyed exclusive privileges.
The e6nstitution'or the United-States and the act of congress;
0ih the ':.2.ntrary, haiinir no m6nopolies to deal with; created
eidlusive'pri,-ileges in'fav6ur 6f the same description .of
persons. Tie one 'prese'rved'to them a pre-existing monopioly, anf the oth6r cbnflrrrd it upon them- 'Both were
influeiiced by the merits 'of the inventor, and 'the'.public
advantage'of enrouraging iiiventive geiius. :And they were
.
V2r, II.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[Pennock & Sellrs vs, Dialogue.]

equally influenced by these considerations; for it required
at least as strong a"sense of'their just claims to distinction,
io except new-and useful inventions from the statutory odium
and denunciation of monopolies, as.it did to confer upon
them the benefits of monopoly by direct enactment. There
was no reason,, therefore, why the jtudicial construction of
the statute of James,. (from which our -act of congress was
in this respect copied;) which had become, as it were, incorporated with . and part of the statute, should not be as
much respected as in the instance of any other statute.
The aidoption of the lafiguage of the statute; was the adoption also of its settled interpretation. It could.not surely
be insisted' that England was wanting in intelligence to
discern the value vof genius, orin- liberality to reward it;
or that there was a prevailing bias in her judiciary. fowards
an 'unjust restriction of the rights of meritorious inventors.
The' sentiment tf the nation, and the government in all its
.branches, was the opposite qf this.
Before referiring'to the cases, it might be. well,. however,
to examine the matter a little upon principle. What is the
right of an'invdntbr'- It is the righty given to him -by the
lawv, to apply for'and obtain a patentfor'his invention. The
patent, when duly obtained, secures 'to him 'the exclusive
enjoyment. -Has he any other right -befor'e he obtains a
patent than the'one just stated.
It is obvious that-he has
not. This, then, is what the learfied judge, in'his charge,
styles, ivith peculiar aptressi-'an incioate-ight; that is, a
right to have a title upon" complying wifh tjhe terms and
conditions of the law. It is-like an inchbate right to land,
or an inceptive right _to land, well l nowri in -some of the
states, .apd every whee- aceompdnied with the condition,
that tb be made- available, it imust be p'rogeduted with date
,diligence, fo the consummation-or completion of the title.
If' he condition be not complied withi, -the right'is abandoned o r: lost, and the rights of"others "are let in. The
abandonment is not a question of intentioi oftfie.party, but
jt :is the legal' construction of his acts o.r omis'sions.
Had the plaintiffs evei such an incho ,ate right . 'Accord-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Pennoek & Sellers vs. Dialogud.]

ing to the opinion of the judge, they undoubtedly had such
a right by- their invention in 1811. - Then, they could have
made out the case required by the firs.t section of the act of
congress-they could have stated with truth, that the thing
invented "was not known or used before their application."
But in the year'1818'it was no longer true. It might
be stated, .but it iould'not'be truly stated. They were,
unable to comply.with the conditio'n of law. . For, if the inventor, as was'the case here, voluntarily permit his invention
to be known Arid used, -as a thing hot intended to be patented,' how 6an he make this statement . By sb doing, he
abandons his inchoate right, he proclaims to the 'world that
he does not mean to secure it by patent, and .very on'e is
at liberty to consider it abandoned; because e'very oue acquainted with the law knows that he has inejirred'a dis-ability. this is the. inevitable legal "cbnstiuctioni of' is
conduct, and is altogether independent.of his intention; unless we suppose the act io be guilty of th&i absurdity of
requiring that to be' stated" which it does not require-to
be true.
But the terms-of the act are in this respect too plain to
admit of a loubt. Suppose an applicant sh-6uld statd, that
his inventib. had been known and used fors even.years before his application, eould, he obtain a patent. -Suppose
he should state, that he had always intende'd to reserve to
himself a iright to obtain a patent, would' that help him'
Or, if h', should state that it had been so1klnown and used.
only-by his permission.' The language of the act is pl'aih
and imperative. There is nd scope for int~ilretation*. The
prescribed conditionds express. And the'is iio doubt that
it was the intention of congress to ieter to'the "appicatibn,"
as the period before which the-thing was iot known or used';
for in the subsequent actof 17th April -'Bob, conferhing thi
privileges of the patent law upon resident aliens,' the same
word is used for the same purpose. Ani it isdeclared tihat
the patent shall be void if the thing patented was -known
.or used before the application. Act 6 17th April'1800,
section 1.

SUPREME COURT.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

It is riote ontended, that if the invention should be pirated,
the use or knowledge, obtained by the piracy, or otherwise
obtained without the knowledge or consent and without the
fault of the inventor; would bar him from getting a patent.
Nor is it c ontended that his own knowledge and use would
be a bar. The latter is a necessary exception out of the
generality of the terms of the law, because every inventor
must know his invention, and must use it to the extent of
ascertaining its usefulness, before he applies for a patent.
The former is a case where there is no fault on the part of
the inventor.. But it'is contended, that the inventor who
means to rely upon a 'patent must make his application
within a reasonable time; and that if he permit his invention
to be publicly known and used before he applies, he cannot
obtain a patent. He abandons his right, if he sell it for
public use himself, and a fortiori, if he permit another so
to sell it.
There is a cautious intimation in the charge, that possibly
there might be some saving efficacy in accompanying the
use W4ith an assertion of claim by the inventor. And it is
also put as a circumstance against the plaintiffs (which was
clearly" in e.viden'ce) that there was no such assertion or notice. The charge is theiefore applicable only to a case of
unqualified public use, without notice or assertion of claim.
That such a notice w-ould be available, o" thdt there can
be any other assertio*n of claim than the legal assertion by
applying for a patent; are propositions Which it is not now
necessary to examine. They were not affirmatively laid
down by the court, nor otheryise adverted .o than for the
purpose of showing that the facts did not entitle the plaintiffs 'to the'benefit of them. They cannot therefore complain. Whether such 'assertions or'notice, contradicted by
the acts of the inventor, Will be available, is a question not
decided below. Certain it is, that a secret permission given
to their own agent, can no more be an assertion or notice,
than a resolution locked up in their own breasts.
1The construction contended 'for is in accordance
with
the p6 lidy of the law. Patents are intended to'be granted

JANUARY TERK 1829.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

for a limited time, beginning with the' invention. He who
asks for one must describe his invention with such certainty ' as will ensure to the public its use, when the'patent expires ;
and at the expiration of the time, the thing invented is public
property. The inventor, to enjoy its benefits,' must"plice
his whole reliance upon it. Is it competent for him, 'then,
to secure to himself the -advantages of his own Ipeciliar
knowledge and skill, as long as these will avaii .hii, aind
when they 'are exhausted, to apply for-a patent . There
are many inventions, the secret of which is not it'orice discoverable from an inspection df the' thing invented. 'the'
inventor may keep that' as long as he cari. ' He may have&'
.extraordinary skill or methods of working which will bhable
him. to keep thej"market' to, himself. May he enjoy- these
exclusive privileges for seven years, *and then' obtain a' pa
tent for fourteen more'? He would then have the exclusive use for twenty-one years. If for seven, why '6t for '
fourteen, or twenty-ne, "or, any other assighabl time.!,
The moment that his invention comes into the most common
or public use, is .the mment when he aplies for a'patent.
When the public have fully got possession of it, he seeks
to withdraw it from' the co6mon 'stock' and' appropriat6 it
to himself. This 'is directly contiary to, the design of the
law. It eitends the term, and inverts the order of proceed-'
ing. The indonveniences Wouldbb've'ry great. ' Th6ie'who'
were engag6d in miakihg the'article must stop. Thise who
had arrafiged for making' it 'must abandon' their arraiigements. Those who had emp6ed their time'ih learning to
make it must 'lse their time and'"their labour.; Andeven
a bona fide ii'ventorb who had discovered the same thing by
his own' study'ahd experiments, would b 'WdepriVedof' the.,
fruitsof his 'ingenuity and exertions. And why? 'Simply
because. the fi st'invehto 'did not chodke sooner :t6"take' 6ut
a patent, a' he righf hiave 'doiie. , The ,ponditions'of t.ie.'
law being Such as he dai comply'withi and.ougliv'to :'omply with; he' postponeg a ompliancei for"his own :profit,'afidlea ds the 'community into an6injuroils error." If-it be, de-'

SUPREME COURT.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

signed, it is awrong. If it be withoutdesign, itis negligence.
Ought he to be benefited by his ovn wrong or negligence
The authorities are against him. He cited 3- Inst.- 184;
Wood *vs.Zimmer, I -Holt's X P. Rep. 58; Whittemore vs.
Cutter; I Gall. 482:. and referred to Evans vs. Eaton, I
Peters's C. C. Rep. 348; Thompson vs. Haight, 1 U. S. Law
Journal,563.
'He thenexamined the several points stated for the decontending that some of them were unsupported by
the facts, and others by the law. Under the second he argued that-there had been an "unreasonable lapse of tithe,"
and '-gross negligence." That seven years (the period here)
unexplained were beyond all reasonable bounds.'
He contended, also, that due diligencewhere there 'were
no circumstances of explanation, was a qestion of law; and
that it consisted in applying for a patent as soon, after the
invention was completed, as could reasonably be done: and,
finally, that due diligence required that the application should
be made before the thing invented was publicly known and
used with the consent of the inventor..

-fendant,

Mr Justice STORy delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of Pennsylvania. The original action was brought by the plaintiffs in
error for'an asserted violation of a patent, granted to them
on the 6th of July 1818, for a new and useful improvement
in- ihe art of making leather tubes or hose, for conveying
air,- water, and other fluids. The cause was tried upon the
general issue, and a verdict was found for the defendant,
upon which judgment passed in his favour; and the correct-.
ness of that judgment is now in controversy before this court.
At the trial, a bill of exceptions-was taken to an opinibn
- delivered by thecourtiin the charge to the jury, as follows, viz.
•"That the law arising upon the case was, that if an inventor
makes his discovery public;looks on and permits other&freely
to use it, without objection or assertion of claim to the inventiofi, of which the public might take notice ; he abandons

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Petnock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

the inchoate right to the exclusive use of the invention,
to which a patentwould have entitled him had it been applied
for before such use.. And, thaf it makes no difference in the
principle, that the article so publicly used,'and afterwards
patented, was made by a particular individual, who did so
by the private permission of the inventor. And thereupon,
did charge the jury, that if the evidence brings the case
within the principle which had been stated,-the court were
of opinion that the plaintiffs were iot entitled to a verdict."
The record contains, embodied in the bill of exceptiofis,
the whole of the testimony and evidence offered at the trial,.
by each party, in support'of the issue. It is yery voluminous, and as no exception was taken-to its competency, or
sufficiency, either generally or for any particular purpose; it
is not properly before this Court for consideration, and forms
an expensive and unnecessary burthen upon the record. This
Court has had occasion in many cases to express its regret,
on account of irregular proceedings of this nature. There
was not the slightest necessity of putting any-portion of the
evidebce in this case upon the record, since the opinion of
the court delivered to the jury, presented a general priniple'of Jlaw, and the apDlication of the evidence to it was left
to the jury. In the argument at the bar, much reliance has been plabed
upon this evidence, by tile counsel, for'both parties. ( It has
been said on behalf of the defendants in error; that it called
for other and explanatory directions from Ithe court; and that
.he omission of the couit to give them in the charge, furnishes a good ground for. a reversal, as it would. have furnished in the court below for .a new trial.. But it is no
ground of reversal that the court below omitted to give directions to. the jury upon any points of law Which might
arise in the causewlere it was not requested by either party
at the trial. It is sufficient for us-that the courthas given
no eifroneous .directions, If either, party deems- any point
presented by.the evidence to be omitted inthe charge,'!tis
competent for such party to require an :opinibn from the
court upon that point. -Ifhe does not, it is a waiver of it.

SUPREME COURT.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

The court cafinot be presumed to do more, in ordinary cases,
than to express its opinion upon the questions which the
pqtrties themselves have raised at the trial.On the other hand, the counsel for the defendant in error
has endeavoured to extract from the same evidence, -strong
confirmations of the charge of the court. But, for the reason already suggested, the evidence must be.laid out of the
case, and all the redsoning founded on it falls.
The. single question then is, Whether the charge of the'
court'was correct in point of law. It has not been, and
indeed cannot be denied, that an inventor may abandon his
inventidn, and surrender or dedicate it to the public. This
inchoate right, thus once gone, cannot afterwards be resumed'at his pleasure; for, where gifts are once made to the
public in this way, they become absolute. Thus, if a man
dedicates a way, or other easement to the public, it is suipposed to carry with it a permanent right of user. The question which generally arises at trials, is.
a question of fact,
rather than of law; whether the acts or acquiescence of the
,party furnish in the given case, satisfactory proof of an abandonment or dedication of the invention to the public. But
when all the faets are given, there does not seem any reason
why the court may not.state the legal conclusion deducible
from them. In this view of the matter, the only question
would be, Whether, upon general principles, the facts stated
by the court would justify the conclusion.
In the case at bar; it is unnecessary -to consider whether
the facts stated in the charge of the court would, upon general principles, warrant the conclusion drawn by the court,
independently of any statutory provisions; because, we are
of opinion, that the proper answer depends upon the true
exposition of the act of 'Congress, under which the present patent was olbtained. The constitution of the United
States has declared, that congress shall have power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing
for limited times,' to authors and inventors, the exclusive
tight to their respective writings and discoveries." It contemplates, therefbre, that this exclusive right shall exist but

JANUARY TERM 18"29.
LPennock & Sellers us. Dialogue.]

for a limited period, and that the period shall be subject to
the discretion 'ofcongress. The patent act, of the.,2lst of
February, 17-93,' ch. 11, prescribes the terms andconditions'
and manner of obtaining patents for inventibns; and proof of
a strict compliance with them lies at the foundation of the
title acquired by the patehtee. The first seqtion provides,
"that when any person or persons, being a citizen or citi-'
zens of the United States, shall allege that he or they have
invented any new or useful art, machine, manufacture, or
composition of matter, or any new or useful improvement on
any art, machine, or composition of matter, not, known or
used before the application;and shall present a petition to
the secretary of state, signifying a desire of obtaining an
exclusive property in the same, and praying that a patent
may be granted therefor; it shall and may be lawful for the
said secretary of state, to cause letters patent to be made
out in the name of the United States, bearing teste by the
President of the United States, reciting theallegations and
suggestions of the. said petition, and giving a short description of the said invention or discovery, and thereupon, granting to the said petition'er, &c. for a term not exceedingfourteenyears,the full and exclusive right and liberty of making,
constructing,.using,and &endingto others to be used, the
said invention or discovery, &c." The third section pro.
vides,." that every inventor, before he can receive.a patent,
shall swear, or affirm, that he does verily believe that he ,is
the true inventor or discoverer of the art, machine, or ,improvement for which he. solicits a patent." Thesixth section provides that the defendant shall be permitted to give.
in defence, to any action, brought against him for an , infringement of the patent, among other'things, " that the
thing thus secured by patent was not originally discovered
by the"patentee, but hadbeen in use, or had been described
in some public work, anteriorto the supposed discovery of
I
.
.,
the patentee."
These-ar 6 the only material clauses bearing upon the
quegtion now before the court; and upon the construction
of. them, there has been no inconsiderable . diversity of
VOL.

11.-C

SUPEIV-E COURT
[Pinnock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.)

opinion entertained among the profession, in cases heretofore litigated.
",It is obvious to the careful inquirer, that many of the provisions of our patent act are derived from the principles and
practice which have prevailed in the'construction of that of
England. It is doubtless true, as has been suggested at
the bar, that where English statutes,- such for instance, as
the statute of frauds, and the statute of limitations; have
been adopted into our own legislation; the known and
settled construction of those statutes by courts of law, has
'been considered as'silently incorporated into the acts, or has
been received with. all the weight of authority. Strictly
speaking, that is not the case in respect to the English
statute of monopolies; which contains an exception on
which the grants of patents for inventions Ifve issued in
that country. The language of that clause of the statute
is not, as we shall presently see, identical with ours; but
the construction of it adopted biy- the Enirlish courts, and
the principles and practice'which have long regulated the
grants of their patents, as they must have been known and
are tacitly. referred to -in some of the provigions of our own
statute, afford materials to illustrate it.
By the very terms of the first section of our statute, the
secretary of state is authorised to grant a patent to any
citizen applying for the same, who shall allege that he has
invented a new and useful art, machine, &c. &c. "not
known or used before the application?" The authority is a
limited one,. and the -party must bring himself within the
teims before he can derive any title to demand, or to hold
a patent. What then is the true meaning of the words
"not known or used before the application?" ' They cannot
mean that the thing invented Was not known or used before
the application by-the inventor himself, for' that would be
to prohibit him from the only means of obtaining a patent.
-

The use, as well as the knowledge of his invention, must be
indispensable to enable hini to a~certain its competency to
the end proposed, as well as to perfect its component parts.
The words then, tb have any rational interpretation, must

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Fennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

mean, not known or used by others, before the application.
But how known or used '.If it were necessary, as it well
might be, to employ others to assist in the original structure
or use by the inventor himself; or if before his application
for a patent his invention -should, be pirated by another, or
used without his consent; it 6an scarcely be supposed, that
the legislature had wiihin its contemplation such knowledge
or .use.

We think, then, the true meaning must be, not' known
or used by the'public, before the application. And, thus
construed, there is much reason for the limitation thtis imposed by thh act. While one great object was, by Ioldihg
out a reasonable reward to inventors, and giving them'an
exclusive right to-their inventions for a limited period, to
stimulate the efforts of genius;' the main object was " to
promote the -progress of science and -useful arts ;"and this
could be done best, by'giving the public at large a right to
make, construct, use, and vend the thing invented, at as
early a period as possible; having a due regard to the rights
of the inventor. If an inventor should be permitted to hold
back from the knowledge of the pubjic the secrets of his
invention; if he should for a long period of years retain-the
monopoly, and make, and sell his invention publicly, and
thus gather thewhole profits of it, relying upon his superior
skill and knowledge of the structure; and then, and then
only, wh~h the danger of competition.should force him to
secure the exclusive right, he should be allowed to take out
a'patent, and thus exclude the public from any farther use
than whatt should be derived under -it during -his fourteen
years;' it wo0uld materially retard the progress -of scieace
and the useful arts, and give a premium to those who
should be least prompt to communicate their discoveries.
A- piovision, therefore, that should withhold from an inventor the privilege of an exclusive right, unless he should,
as early as he.sl6uld talow the public use, put the public
in possession of his' see'ret, and commehee the running of
the period, that should limit that right; wouid not be deemed
unreason'able. It might be expected to find a place in a

SUPREME COURT.
[Penock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

wise prospective legislation on such a subject. If it was
already found in the jurisprudence of the mother country,
and had not been considered inconvenient there; it would
not be unnatural that it should find a place in our own.
Now, in point of fact, the statute of 21 Jac. ch. 3 i commonly called the statute of monopolies, does contain exactly such a provision. That act, after prohibiting monopolies generally, 'contains, in the sixth section, an exception
in favour of "letters patent and grants of privileges for
fourteen years or under,, of the sole working or making of
any manner of new manufactures within this realm, to the
true and first inventor and inventors of sucA manufactures,
which others, at the time of making such letters patent and
grants, shall not use." " Lord Coke, ,in his commentary
upon this clause or proviso, (3 Inst. 184,) says that the
letters patent " must be of such manufactures, which any
other at the time of making such letters patent did not use;
for albeit it were newly invented, yet if any other did use it
at the making of the letters patent, or grant of. the privilege, it is declared and enacted to be void by this act."
The use here referred to 'has always been 'understood to be
a public use, and not a private or surreptitious use in
fraud of the inventor.
In tfie case of Wood vs. Zimmer, 1 Holt's Y.M
P. Rep.
58, this doctrine was fully recognised by lord chief justice
Gibbs. There the inventor had suffered the .hing invented
to be sold, and go into public use for four months before the
grant of his patent; and it was held by the court, that on
this account the patent was utterly void. Lord chief justice
Gibbs said, " To entitle a man to a patent, the invention
must be new to the world. The public sale of that which is
afterwards made the subject of a patent, though sold by the
inventor only, makes the patent void." By " invention," the
learned judge undoubtedly meant, as .the context abundantly show's, not the abstract discovery, but the thing invented; not the new secret' principle, but the manufacture
resulting from it..
.The words, of our statute are not identical with those of

JANUARY TERM 1829.

21

tPennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

the statute of James, but it can scarcely admit of doubti that
they must'have been within the contemplation of tfiose by
whom it was framed; as well as the construction which had
been pit upon them by Lord' Coke. But" if.there were no
such illustrative comment, it is difficult to conceive how any
other interpretation could fairly be put upon these Words.
We are-not at liberty to reject words which are sensible in
'the place where they ocCur, merely because they may be
thought; in some'cases, to import a hardship, or tie up beneficial rights within very close limits. If an inv eition is used
by the public, with the consbnt.of the inientor, at the time
of his application for a ppatent'; how can the court say,' that
his case is, nevertheless, such as the -act was intended to
protect! If such ai public use is not a uge withinthe mnaning of the statute*, what other use is.- If it be7 a use within
the meaning of the statute, 'how'can the court extract the
case from its operation, and support -apatent; where. the
suggestions of the patentee are not true, and the conditions
on which aldne'the grant was authorised to be made, do not
exist.! In such a case, if' the court could perceive no reason for-the restrictions- the will of the' legislature must still
,be obeyed.'- It cannot and ought ilot to be disregarded,
where. it plainly applies to the case. But if the restriction
may be.perceived.to -have a foundation in sound policy, and
be an effectual means of accomplishing the legislative objects,- by,bringing inventions- early into 'public and- unrestricted'use; and above all, if such policy has ,been' avowed
and acted upon in like-cases in laws having similar objects;
thereis very-urgent reason, to suppose, that the act in those
terms embodies the real legislative intent, and ought to receive that cnstruction. It is not wholly insignificant in
this point of vie*, that the first patent act passed by congress on this subject, (act of 1.790, ch. 34, [ch. 7.)'which
the. present act repeals, usesthe words-" not'knoun or-used.
before," without adding -the words "the pplpicati6on;" and
,in-connexion with- the structure -of the sentence -in Which'
'they stand, might have been referred either to, the time of
the invention,, or of the application. The addition of- the

22

SUPREME POURT.
[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

latter words in the patent act of 1793, must, therefore, have
been introduced, ex industria, and with the cautious intention to .clear away a doubt, and .fix the original and deliberate meaning of the legislature.
The act of the'l7th of April -180, ch. 25, which extends
the privileges of the act of 1793 to inventors who are aliens;
contains a proviso declaring, "that every patent which shall
be obtained. pursuant to the act for any invention, art or dis'covery, which it shall afterwards appearhad been known or
used 'previous to such applicationfor a patent, shall be
void." This proviso certainly certifies the construction of
the act of 1793, already asserted, for there is not any reason to suppose, that the legislature intended to confer on
aliens, privileges, -essentially different from those belonging
to citizens. On the contrary, 'the enacting clause of the
act of 1B00 purports to put both on the same footing; 'and
the proviso seems added as a- gloss or explanation of the
original act.
The only real doubt which has arisen upon this exposition
of the statute,, has been created by the words of the sixth
section already quoted. That section admits the party sued
to give in his defence as a bar, that "the thing thus secured
by patent was not originally, discovered by the patentee, but
had been in use anterior to the supposed discovery of the
patentee." It has been asked,' if the legislature intended
to bar the party from a patent in consequence of a mere
prior use, although 'e was the inventor; why were not the
words" anterior to the application" substituted, instead of
9i/anterior to the supposed discovery? If a mere'useKf the
thing it/vented before the application were sufficient" to bar
the right, then, although the'party may have been the-first
and true inventor, if another person, either innocently as a
sec:ond inventor, or piratically, were to use it without the
knowledge of the-first inventor; his right would be gone..
In respect to a use by piracy, it is not clear that any such
fraudulent use is within the intent of the statute; and upon
general principles it might 'well be held excluded. In respect to the case of 'a second invention, it is questionable

JANUARY TERM 1829.

23

[Pennock & Sellers vs. Dialogue.]

at least, whether, if by suchsecond invention a public use
was already acquired, it could .be deem/ed a case within the
protection of the act. If the, public were already in possession and common use of an invention fairly and ;ithout
that the
fraud, there might be sound reason for presuming,
legislature did not intend to grant an exclusive iight-.to any
*one to monopolize that which: was already common. There
would'be no quid'pro quo-no: price for the exclusive right
or monopoly conferred -upon :the-inventor for fourteen years.
Be this as it may it is certain that' the sixth section is not
necessarily repugndnt tiothe construction Which* the words
of the first section require and-justify. The *sixth section
*certainly does not enumerate all .the defences which a party
may makein a suit brought against him f6oviolating a patent. One obvious omission is, where he uses ift under a
license or grant from the inventor; The sixth section in
-the clause under consideration, may'well be-deemed'meirely.
-affirmative of what would. be tle- result from' the general* principles of law applicable .to other parts of the- statute'
It give, the right to the first and true inventor -and to him
'only; if known of used before his'supposed discovery lie is
not the first, although he may be a twe inventor; and that
'is the case to which the clause lobois. But it'is not inconsistent with -this.doctrine, that although he is the first, as
well as the true inventor, yet if he shall put it into public use,
'or sell it for public use before-he applies for a patent, that
this should furrpish another bar to his claim.. In this view
an interpretation is given to every claiise.of the sta'tute without introducing any inconsistency,' or inierfering with the
'ordinary meaning of its language. No public policy is,overlooked; and no injury an ordinarily 'occur to the first inventor, which is not in some sort the result of his own laches
or voluniary inaction.
It is admitted that .the subject 'is not wholly, free' from
difficulties; but upon most deliberate. consideration we are
all ofopinion, that the true construction of the act is, that
the first inventor cannot acquire a good title to a patent; if
'he suffers the thing invented to go into public use, or to be

SUPREME COURT..
[Pennock & Sellersmes. Dialogue.]

ptiblicly sold for use, before he makes application- for a patent. His voluntary ,act or acquiescence in the public sale
and use is an abandonment of his right; or rather creates a
disability to comply with the terms and conditions on which
albne the secretary of state is authorized to grant him a
patent.
The opinion.of the circuit court was therefore perfectly
correct; and .the judgment.is affirmed with costs.

This cause came-on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Pennsylvania, and was arg I' by counsel; on,
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this. Court, that
there is no error in the -judgment of the said circuit court..
Whereupon, it is considered, ordeed and adjudged by this
Court, that the said judgment of the said circuit court .in
this causb, be and the satne is hereby affirmed wiih costs.

