JANUARY TERI

1829.

THE PREsIDNT, DInECTORS AND COMPANY OF THE BANx OF THE

UITED $TATES, PLNMT1F1S IN EnmoR v8. THOMAS
iiqmL, DEFENDAnT iN rREtoxt.-

D.

CAR-

The evidence in tie case was, that the day when'tle note became due, the
bank being the holder thereof, and it being payable there, after the usual
banking hours- were over it was deli.vered to a notary by the officers of
the tank, they Informing him at the time that there were-no funds there-for
the payment.of the note. This was a sufficient proof of due demahod.of payment. [549]
Wheu a note is payable at a bank, it is not necessary to make any personal de- mand upon the maker elsewhere. It is his duty to be at the, bankwithin the
usual hours of business to pay the same, 4nd 'if he omits so to do, and a demand is there made of payment by the holder within those hours, and it is refused or neglected to be made, the holder is entitled to main.tain "his action
for iuch dishonour. [5491
It is difficult to lay down any universal rule as to what isduediligence inrespect"
to notice to indorses. Many cases must be decided upon their own-particular
"circumstantbes, -however desirable it may be, when practicable, 'to, lay down
.ageneral rule. . [551]

When notice is sent by the mail, -it issufficient to direct it to the town where
theyparty resides, If it is a. post town if it is not, then to the post office or
post town nearest tb'his residence, if knoWn. But the rule, as to the nearest*
post office; is not of' univers al 'application ;-for if the party is in the habit of
receivinig his letters at a!more-distant post office, or through a-more circuitous
route, and the fact is known to the.person sending notice, notice sent by the
latter mode. will
be good. And where the party"Is in the habit ofreceiving his
letters at various post offices, to suit his own convenience or business, it maos
-be sufficient to send it to either. [551]
A suggestion was made at 'he bar, that the letter to the indorser, stating the-demand and -disbonotir of ,the note, is not sufficient, unless the party sending it
also informsthe Indorser thathe ii looked to for'paymept. -But where such
notice, is sent h the holder, or by his ordei, it-necessarily implies such a
responsibility over. "1552]

ERROR to the circuit court of-Ohio.

,,This suit was originally brought against William Stedle,
William Lytle, and Thomas D. Carneal.

The -plaintiffs.

counted in.assumpsit for money lent and advanced, under a
p'rovision'of the statute of the state of Ohio, authorising a

joint suit against all the parties to'a promissory note.
The original process was served- upon Wil-ian Steele and

William Lytle.

As to Thomas D. Carneal, the marshal of

544

SUPREME COURT.
[Ban of the Uffited States vh. Carneal.] -

the district of Ohio returned "noi found " and this return
being suggested of record, the plaintiffs, dt the September
term of the circuit c6urt for the year .1823, proc.adea to
judgment against Steele and Lytle.
In May 1824, the.plaintiffs in pursuance of another statute of the state of Ohio, sued 6ut'of the clerkls ciffire of the
circuit court a writ of sciive facias against Thomas It. Carneal, (as.to whom the marshal of the district bad previously
returned" not found,") the object of which writ was to call
apon him to show cause why he should'n6t be made a party
'to the judgment against Steele and Lytle, and why execution should not issue against himwagreeably to the provisions
of the statute.
This wit having been served up9-he defendatit, -a rule
was taken against him for a: plea. At the September rules
..1824, the defendant's default was entered, and judgmeat
"nisi."
-At the January te m. 1825, this -default was set
.aside, and the defendant. filed the plea of non assumpsit;
upon which iss ue was joined.
,The cause was regularly continued upon the docket until
the July term 1827 -at Which term the defendant's attorney
fileo a further plea.
* ,fAnd the said Thomas D. Carfieal,. by the lpave o1ithe
.,court, first'had and obtained for furtherplea in-this behalf,
,defends the' wrong and ihjury, when, &c., -and says, That
the said promise in the said declaration, in theorigin~l causesupposed, was made by the said Carneal as co-indorser with
'William Lytie, upon a promissory-note, made and executed
y 'tle said-William Steele, the said'Carneal and.Jytle being
ihdorsers, as securities for the said William. Steele ;"ahd,
after-the making of the said promise, and after the com-.
mencement of-this suit, to wit, on the 17th day of December
1824; in consideratiqn thaf the said Lytle had transferred to
the plaintiffs a large amount of-real estate, in payment and
satisfaction of the'debts of tle said William Lytle to the
said plaintiffs, including the debt due the, plaintiffs upon the
indorsement aforesaid, and had given his hores for the payment of a large sum of money to wit, the sum of forty thousand dollars, upon account of and in satisfaction of hia said

JANUARY *TERM 1829.
[Bankof the UnIted States

545 *

vs. Cameal.]

liabilities to the plaintiffs, including the indorsement aforesaid : the said plaintiffs agreed .with the said William Lytle
tha.'hey would accept and receive'the real estate so conveyed'andthe notes so made and delivered, in satisfaction
of the said debt' due 'from the said William Steele, upon
which the said Carneal, with -the said- William'Lytle,-were
indcirsers and securities as aforesId; and dd then and there
accept nmd receive the same in satisfaction of said debt; and.
this the said Carneal is ready to verify : wherefore-he prays
judgment, if the said plaintiffs their action oughtfurther,to
have or.rnaintain.againsthim."
At the December term .1827, the plaintiffs filed .their replication to the above-plea,. in the following words- ' And
the said plaintiffs,.by Daniel-J. Caswell, their attorney, as to
the plea of the defendant, by him last pleaded,*to Ithefurther
maintenane of the said action, say, that for any- thing in
the said .plea set forth, they ought. not to be barred frop
further having .and iaintainingtheir said action, because,
protesting that the said William Lytle did not transfer. to
the said plaintiffs the real-estate in the said. plea .set-fortli,
nor give his notes for the sum of money in the said plea-set
forth ;,for replication to the.said plea, they say that the said

-plaintiffsdid not accept the same in- sati faction of the"-sum
of money due the said plaintiffs; as set forth in their said declaration; and this they pray may be inquired of by the
country, and the defendant doth the -like, &c.
The cause was tried at the July- term 1828, and a Verdiclt
and judgment rendered for- the defendant.
The counsel for the praintiffs tendered their bill of excep-tions, and prosecuted this writ of.error.
The bill of exceptions sent up with the record, c6ntains-the whole of the testimony given on the trial. The. facts
of the case, as they were understood and, considered by the
Court, are stated in the opinion of. thd Court delivered by Mr Justice Story.
On the trial in the circuit court of Ohio, after the evidence
.was closed, the defendant's counsel moved the court to instruct the jury as in case of a: non-suit, "upon the ground-that
the evidence adduced by the plaintiffs was not sufficient in
VOL. I.-3 T I

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Carnea.]

law to charge the defendant as indorser of the note aforesaid; and the court, upon the motion aforesaid, decided that
te evidence in writing adduced by the: plaintiffs was insufficient in law to charge the defendant and render him liable
as indorser of the note aforesaid, and so charged the jury :
to which opinion, of the court, and charge to the juty, the
plaintiffs by their coVnsel except, and Pray the -court that
this, their bill* of exceptions, may be signed, sealed, 6nd
made *apart of the record; which is hereby ordered."
The plaintiffs, by their counsel, moved, the court to charge
the jury, that, underthe present state of the pleadings in the
cause, it was not necessary for the plaintiffs to prove, that
they gave notice to. the defendant of the non-payment of the
said koto at the time the sanie became due and payable, in
order to charge the said defendant: which instruction the
court refused to give the said jury; and on the contrary,
clihiiged .the said jury that it was incumbent upon'the plaintiffs to prove such notice. To which opinion and charge of
the court, the plaintiffs, by their 'counsel, excepted, and
prayed that this, their bill -of'exceptions may also ,be signed,
sealed, and made- a part .oi"the record. All which was ordered by thp court.
The case was argued by Mr Caswell and Mr Sergeant for
the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Benham for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiffs contended:
1. Thatthe Court erred in deciding that it was incumbent
upon the plaintiffs to prove that due and legal notice was
given to the defendant of the non-payment of the note set
forth in the record. In order to sustain this position, they
relied upon the fact, that, after the issue.of non-assumpsit was
joined by the parties,.the defendant, by leave of the court,
filed a plea of accord and satisfaction pending the writ, upon
which issue was joined. This plea,-it is contended, was a
waiver of the former issue.
2. That the proof of notice was sufficient to charge the
defendant with the payment of the note: and, consequently,
that the court erred in charging the jury aE in case of nonsuit.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of the United States vs. Carneal.]

For the defendant in error it was argued that there was
no error in the.decision of'the circuit court of Ohio.
1. Because the evidence adduced on the'trial by the plain-;
tiffs, to provea presentment of sdid note and demand of payi.ent, was not sufficienit to charge the defendant as indorset.
2. That the evidence of notice to charge "deferidant as
indorser was insufficient.
3, That the special plea filed by the defendant, at the
term .ofJuly 1827, in bar of the further maintenanceof said
writ, 'did.not waive the issue previously joined.
Mr Justice. STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of -error to the circuit bourt of.'the district
of Ohio. The.Bank 'of .thd United States brought a joint
action. against William Steele, William Lytle, and Thomas
'D. Carnoal (tle defendant in error), upon a promissory note
dated at Cincinnati on the 22d of.August 1820, whereby
Steele promised to pay Carneal o'r order, at the office of disc.9unt and deposit .df the Bank of the United States, at Cin. cinnati, the.um of $11,663 in sixty days after date; .which
pote was.afterwards successively indorsed by, Carneal-and
Lytle, and was discounted by the bank, and disbonoured at
its.nmturity.
The deblaration- is for money lent .ahd 'advanced, and the
suit is' auth6rized. to be brought .in this' form jointly against
all the" parties to the note, by a statute of.'Ohio. The process was served. upo Steele. ,and Lytle, 'but returned, "not
served" upp. Carneal. . Judgment Was afterwards duly obtaihepd against Steele and LytI, and a scire facias issued
according tq another statute of Ohio .against Carneal, to
wliich he. appeared, and .pleaded the general issue of. non
tssumpsit, at, the January term of the c'ourt in 185.
Thq.c ause was then, regularly continued. until July term"
1827,. when by leave of the court he pleaded, as 'a 'firther
plea,.the receipt of certain real estate of Lytle by the bahk,
after the .corneincement f- the suit%in: satisfaction .of the
debt-due upon"tihe note, ,and' prayed- judgment if.'the plaintiffs, their action ought further.to. hav'e or mainztdin aga'in'st
hin.; To .-this plea'there was ' replication, afnd issue to the

548

SUPREME COURT.
fBank of the United States vs. Caineal.]

country; and at June term 1828, the cadse was tried and a
verdict was found, and judgment thereupon entered for the
defendant; A bill-of exceptions was taken at the trial, upon
which the questions arose which have been discussed at thd
'bar, and upon which the opinion of'the Court is -now to be
delivered.
The first qrestion.is, whether the p]la of satisfaction, so
as above pleaded, is a substituti6n, for thd- former plea of
non' assumpserunt, 'so.as'to. displace it entirely, or whether
it is an auxiliary plea, go that both issues were propely before. the jury. at the trial upon which they might pronounce
their verdict. Th -la tter is contended for by the defendhnt
in-error, and was supported by the jdidgmentvof the circuit
court.
It is admitted that n plea puis da"rrin conztinuahe'e is
always' plehded by way of :substitutiiQn- fdr.the former pleh,
on which no proceeding-is afterwardshad(a ) . The-present
plea wvas. ir fact pleaded -after the laft corttinuance, although
it is ndt id stated:in,the plea.. Itdiffers from a-technical
plea of puis'darrien continuance, only, in this circumstane'e
thLt .the s atisfaictioa is., alleged to hare been- after the, ca,inencement of the suit) instead of. after the last continuance
since
" of the suit. In principle, however, they do'not diffe, .
each 6f them requires-ihe same domnmenc ment,and conclusiort; ihat is,.istead of.actio n'oi, gbnerally- each 'must bepleaded wi-th .the.prayer of actio.-non Uterius Aabere.; &c.
and the judgmtnt must fdllbw the.-prayer, and is repugnait
.to, and incompatiible" With that of a generd .Jiudgmetit upon
mattera- befote th& suit broutght.. -s therefore;-thd same
judgment cannot be -endred upon"the gdnesdl issie, and
upon such a plea of mfatters arisingnfter the sbit .brought, it
is difficult to perceive-how -they -danh'be, united. But it-is
the. less necessary to rest any absolute decision 'upoii this
point, because we 'are il. of opinion; that the judgment below ought to be teversod- upon the exceptions taken to the.
,merits.
The 'court below ruled, that- the. evidence adduced at the,
83. -Comyn'. Dig. Abatement;,I 24.
(a) S eprh7n on .Plading;81.

"

JANUARY TERw 1829.
EBank-of the United States vs. Carneal.]

.trial was not sufficient in law to charge the defendant as indorser.- That evidence was supposed to be deficient in two
respects ;_16t, that there.wafs not a proper demand of payment
of the note ofth maker, at the, time when it beeame" due;
and 2d, that due natibe was not given' of the non-payment
'to'the -defendant as indorser.

-

-

-Upon the first point the -evidence is, that on the day-when
the -note became due, .thenote was in the'bank at Cincinnati,
.the bank being the holder 'thereof, and, it being payable
therei and that after-the, usual banking hours were over, it
was delivered to a notary by the officers of.thebankfor pro-.
.test, they 'informing. him at the time, that there were no funds..
%there for ihe payment of the note. -We are all of oPiniOn;
*tihat-this was -a sufficient proof of a' due demand ofpaiyment:.
Where a note6 s payable at a :bank,- it -isnot necessary to.
make any personal demia'nd upon: the maker elsewhere. -'It
is'hi duty:to be at the bank within the usual -hours-.ofbusiiiess'tb'pay fhe samei and if he omnits-so -to do, arid a demand'
,is there made-of payment by the h6lder, within those.hours'
and it :is refused or negiected .tobe made, the 'holder is enti.tled tomaintain.his action for such dishonour. Btit where
"the bank id itself the.holder of'the--note so payabl-,, no: -for,
mal, demand. is neeessary.. to be -made.of payment. '.The*
makei has thd-whold period-of the' usual- banking hours to
pBYit , idif'he does not pal'. it .within.those urs-.it is.equi..
valentto a demahd) and reffusal of payment on his part, and"
the note bught not to b. deliveied- out for piotest-unfil tfter.
those'hours 'are passed. If the bank has funds .of the maker
*inits -hands" that might furnish a defend6 to. a suit. brought
fr noft-payment, -But. this its Pioperlymattf. of defeiice to
he.shown.by tht party sued; like any-othei.1 aiment, ahd not:
matter' to be.disproved:by. the bank, -bynegative evidence.
This d6'etrine, wat iecognised by this Court in Fulle'ton v&.
The Bank of the United- States, at th6 last t rm" -Peterv..
R4. 604'617.
Then 'as to the Gther poiUi, of-riotice, the facts -are, that .
•th de.fendant,. Carridal, r~sldes in 'Camplell..eounty,. in the
state of Kentucky. The note became du66 on-.the- 24th of,
October 1820, and on the. next day the. notary put' a sealed.

550

SUPREME. COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. CarmeuL]

notice of the. protest and non-payment into the post ofce
-in, Cincinnati, directed "'To Thomas D. Carneh'a Campbell
county, Kentucky," the postage on.,which was not paid..At
that time Carneal's residence-in Campbell county was with,out the limits'ofany post toWn, and about two miles from'
Cincinnati, across the river.Ohio; and his residence was well
known to the officers of the bank, its
well as.the. postmaster
at Cincinnati. The county seat of Campbell county is Newportf, where there is a.post officei about three miles distance
from Carneal's residence, the river. Licking being beti'ven
them; and there is alsd ahother post office. at Cdvington, be-.
low ,the river Licking, about two miles-distance :from his-residence.- In October 1820, the mails from Cincinnati passed
once a: week only, through Covington, dnd three times a week
through'Newport. • Carneal was. in the 'habit'of .receiving
letters at the Newport office, 'as well as at the offices in Covington and -Cincinnati. He was in the habit of.receivin&
all the letters, directed to him at Cincinnati, at the' ofice in
that place, and had. given orders to the postmasieristo detain
all such letters there'until he called for' them., He-visited
*Cincinnati very -frequently and almost. daily, having busi.
ness and being a.director of a bank located at that place.
Th 'postmaster'was"in the habit of sending letters directed
to him, in Campbell, county,'by 'the Covington mail, whenever he observed, the address, unless, as was sometimes the
case,;he called' for letters, at the office bWore the Covingtoi
mail was.sent. But other letters, directed generally to Campbell county, when the place of residenc9 of-the party. vas
unknown, were sent.by .the. Postmaster to -Newport.: ',The
notary himself, when he put. the presentnotice intQ the post
office at Cincinnati, supposed 'that Carneal"received all his.
lettersat thatoffice. The first mail which .left Cincinnati
for Newiort, after the .deposit of this notice, was on the 2,6th
of October;- and the -first which left 'for Covington was on
the 28th of the same, month. ',There is no .evidence in the
case that the letter in question'went eJther bythe mail of 'the
26th to Newport, or by that of the 28th to Covington. .The
defendant, Carneal,,hs not produced the letter, if itw s ever

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of the United States vs. Carneal.]

received by him-; and. the circumtances afford a strong Otesumption ihat it might have been received at Cincinnati. Such is a summary.of the material facts, upop which this
Court is called to pronounde, whether there was due. dili
gence in the -transmission of-the notice'to the defendant.
The latter having asked the court below to instruct the jury
as in case of a non-suit; and the court having acceded to
lis. request, that instruction can be maintained only upon
the supposition that there was no'contrariety of evidence as
to.the facts which-ought to have been left to the jury; and
consequently, every inference fairly deducible from the facts
which- afforded a- presumption of due notice, ought to: be,
made in favpur of the plain.tiffs.
-It is difficult, to lay down any universal rule, as to what is
due. diligenice*in respect to notice' to indorsers. Many cases
must be decided upon their own particular. circumstances,
however desirable it may.be, when practicable, to lay down
a general rule.. When notice is sent by-the mail, -it is suffiht to direct it to the town where the party reides, if it.is
a post. town. -Ifit-is not, then to the post office. or post.town
nearest to his .residenqe,'if known. ' But the rule, as to the
nearest post-office, 'is
not of universal application, for if-the
party is'-i the habit of receiving his letters at .a more distant post office,. oi through a more- circuitous route,. and
that fact is' knbwn-, to the "person sending -notice, .notice
sent by the latter- mode will be- good. And where the party
is in the habit of receiving his !etters at various poft offices,
to.suit his own convenience or business, it may be sufficient
to send. it to either,. Theobject-of the law in all these cases
is to enforce -the transmission of the. notice by. such a route
as. that it may reach the party irr
a- reasonable. time.- This
doctrine ifully recognized by this Court in thd case of The
Bank'of Columbia vs. -Lawrence, deciled at the .last term.
J.-Peters'sRep..

578.

-

-

It has been objected that the direction of- this letter.to
Campbell county, generally -wa - not sufficient, but. that -it
for .therought-to have been directea to the nearest-offic,
wise it:
might happen, that -itwoul4 be sent to a pogt office,
-which,-though the county seati might, be very distandt front

SUPREME COURiT. [Bank of tho-United Siates vs. Carneal.]

the residence of the party. Whether a mere direction to
the county without' farther specification, where the party
does not reside in any town therein, would be sufficient in
all cases and under all circumstances, .we -do not think it
necessary, to decide. .That question may well be left until
it is necessary in, judgment. Rat ifere -the desciiption is
general, if it is in 'fact sent to the proper post office, or if,
- after due inquiry it is tlr only description within the reach
of.the -person sending the notice, we think' -it may be
'safely declared to be sufficiently certain, andthat a iffereit
doctrine would materially clog. the circulation of negotiable.
paper. . We think the idesciption in the present case was
in every view.suffiient. There Was 'no mis'-direction; "for
Carmeal did live in Campbell county.. His actual residence
was well known to the postmaster at Cincinnati, and the
description did not and could not mislead him. .Ifthe direction was observed, it would be sent to Covington, -or
would be dbtivered at Cincinnati. If not, it would be sent
at farthest to' Newport.
Then, was the notice in fact duly giyen, or duly. sent
through the proper, post office ' We are all of opinion that
it was. The post office at'Cincinnati was almost as near to
the party's residence as that at.Covingtofi. -The difference
is too trifling to afford any just ground of preference; -and
Cincinnati was the place where he was ihost likely to receive the letter promptly, since it was the place of his business -and of his hbitual.and almost daily resort. If it had
-never been transmitted from' that.office at all, we.are not
prepared to say, ihat under such circimstahces, the notice
left the~ie was. not of itself sufficient, -since the°party-was
known there and his description unequivocal. It does not
appear in point of fact. that it ever left that place for any
other ,post office, If it did not, the strong presumption is,
that it.was. here' delivered to the' party. But if-it was sent
to'Newport, how can the Court say.that-It was mis-sent! The
party was in the habit of receiving letters there';, it was the.
county seat' and the rhail by that route was three times a
week, and that by Covington only' once a week. The .probabilities. therefore, in ftvour of an early receipt of the let-

JANUARY TERM '182q..

553

[Bank of thb United States vs. Cameal.]

ter from this circumstance might fairly balance any in the
opposing scale, from' the increase. of distance, and' the.ihtervention 6f the river Licking. And in fact the letter would
at -that time have reached Newport, twodqys earlier than it
would have reached Covington. We think it 'Would be inconvenient and dangerous to lay down any rule, that the'
person sending a notice, ought under such circumstances to
direct the letter to the nearest post office. We think, that
the notice would have been good by either route; indeed
good, if left at the post office at Cincinnati.
A suggestion has been made at 'the bar, that a letter to
the. indorser staung the demand and dishonour of the'note,.
is not sufficient, unless the party sending it also inforras ihe
indorser that he is looked to for payment. But when such
notice is sent' by the holder, or by his order, itnecessarily
implies such a responsibility over. 'For what other purpose
could it'
be sent 9 .We know. of no rule that requires any
formal declaration to be made to this effect. It, is sufficient,
.if it may be reasonably inferred frQm the nature of the notice.
For these reasons weare all of opinion. that the judgment
.of the circuit court ought to be reversed; and -the cause re-.
manded, with directions to award a -venire facias de noyo.;.

VOL. II.-- U

