JANUARY TERM, 1829.

YO'i

REYNoLDs,

T.NANT TE

UrTrD'STATES, PLAINr-FF V.

DumAcx" M'AATmini, DEBNDAXT.

lThe ands north west of the Rver Ohio, between the rivers Scioto and Little
Miami, lying west of Ludlovsiline,east of Roberts's line and south of the Ifdian boundary, reserved by Virginia, in her deed 6f cession to the United
States of March 178.4, for the satisfaction of the military bounties Virginia had
promised, were not, prior to 1810, by any legislative acts of the government
qf the United States, w'thdrawzi from appropriation under and "byvirtu6 of
.Virginia military land warrants. A patent issued on the 12th of October 1812,
founded upon a military land warrant, for land withinR the rpseried lands, is
valid against a claimant of the same land, holding under a sale made by the
United States.

SERROR to the st:preme court of Ohio':
This was an action of ejectment, brought originally in the
court of common pleas for Champaign counfty in the state
of Ohio, by M'Arthur, the defendant in error, against Reynolds, the tenant in possession. In that court a verdict and
judgment.#ere rendered' in favour of the plaintiff below.
The ;plaiftifltl error appealed to the supreme court of Ohio
•for that,.co ty.
On the irial in the latter court, (being -by the laws of
Ohi6, a trial de novo,) M'Arthur agaimobtained 'iverdict
and judgment in his favour. M'Aithur claimed the land in
coutroversy under a patent froni the United States;.bearjig
date October the 12th, 18W, founded on entry and survey
made in th year 1810, on-a watlant granted *for servicesin the Virginia line on continental estab1ishment during the
war of the revolution. Reynolds, the defendant below,
clained as. the assignee of one Henry Van Meter, Wtho in
the year 1805. entered -the land, in cbiotroversy at the;Cin,cinnati 1ind office'. It rverted to the United States in the
year 1813, for non-paymen t of the purchase money, and
duringthe same year it was. eter- A again by Van Meter,
and the Certificate of entry assign d by him-to Reynolds.
The deed of cession of the country nqrth west of the
*Ohio river, from Virginia to the United. Statis, dated, in
March 1784, reserved the country between the rivers Sci o
VOL. II.-3 C

-SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds vs, M'Arthur.]

and Little .Miami,for the satisfaction of the military bounities Virginia had promised to her officers and soldiers on
continental establishment. "The sources of the two rivers
are betwqen fifty and sixty miles apart, and the country
between them makes a part of the western boundary of the
reservation. In 1802, Israel Ludlow was directed by-the
then surveyor.general of tjie United States, to run the boundary line between these rivers, who in that year accordingly
ran adirect line from the source of the Little Miami towards what he supposed to be the source of the Scioto; to
which-river -he did not-extend his line, in consequence of
being arrested in -his survey by the Indians at the Greenville treaty line, that line being then the Indian boundary.
The line run by Ludlow is called .4udlow's line.
In the year 1812 congress passed an act authorising, the
appoihtment of three commissioners, who, in conjtknction
with. commissioners to be appointed by Virginia, were directed -to run the boundary, line betWeen the sources of
these iivers, with authority to agree ulon and establish the
same. They proceeded to ascertain the sources of -these
rivers, aid employed a surveyor of the name of Roberts to
run a direct line between them. While he was running the
line, a misunderstanding arose among the commissioners as
should be -settled.
to the principle on which tie boundary
The ,Virginia commissioners contended for a line from the
source of the Scioto to the mouth of the Little Miami as
the boundary. The United States commissioners claimed
the line then running-between the sourceiof the two rivers
as the boundary.
The conmissioners separated without agreeing upon a
boundary. This line is.
called Robert3's line. It runs from
nearly the same point-on the Little Miami, at which Ludlow's line commences; to a point on the Scioto several miles
west 6f-the terhnination of Ludlow's line when extended to
the latter river. The 'two lines inclhde i°triangular gore.of
country extending fr-6m on6 river to the other. - Shortly after
Ludlow's line was run, the surveyors in the employment of
the United States proceeddd to survey the country west of
and bounding upon that line, as far as the Indian boundary,

JANUARY TERM 1829.

419

[Reynolds vs; MArthur.]

and the officers at the Cincinnati land office sold the wholeor part of the country lying beiween Ludlow's and Roberts's
lines, as the land of the United States; among which was the
land in controversy. The act of 1812 declared that Ludlbw's line should be the boundary, until otherwise establish*ed by the consent of Virginia and the United States.. By
another act of congress passed in 1818,,LudloW's.line to the
Greenville treaty line; was made the boundary.unitil otherwise directed by 1aw. And above the Greenville treaty line.to
the Scioto, Roberts's line was made by that act the boundary.
The land in controversy -was admitted by the -parties
to lie on Buck creek, a-water of the Great
Tiami
river,
.adjoining Ludlow's line, and'south of th.e Indian boundary
line. The plaintiff below, M'Arthur, furiher' agreed that
if the land in controversy did not lie- between the-rivers
Scioto and Little Miami, a verdict' and judgment should ,be
rendered against him.
On the trial in ihe supreme court of Ohio, the counsel.'for
the plaintiff.in error prayed the court to give the jury' eight
several. instruictions; all of which that Court refused to give.
To th~s refusal a bill of exdeptions was tendereal, upon
'which the writ of error is founded.'
The instructions prayea for bytihe coufisel for the-plaintiff in the court below, were as follows:
1. That the lands west ofLudlow's line, east of Roberts's
line, and'south of the-Indian boindiry line, had bedn withdrawn from apiprppriation, under and by virtue of said miliiary land warrants, prior to the year 1810; and that as the
same had: pursuant to the acts of congiress in such case made
and provided, been -directed to be surveyed arid sold; and
that, as-the same had accordingly been surveyed and sold
to the defendant; prior to the year 1810 ; consequently that
,the plaintiff's patent is void :and their verdict .ought to be
for the defendant.
2. That qst'ht, third section of thc act of congress -ofth6
United States of 11th April 1818, declares: "that-from the
source of the Little Miami -riverto the Indian boundary line
-established by- the treaty of Greenville in'P795, 'the line-designated as the westerly boundary line of the Virginia tract,

SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds ft. M'Arthur.]

by .anact of congress passed on the 23d day of March 1804,
entitled ' an act .to ascertain the. boundary of the lands- re-'
served by the state of Virginia, north west of he river Ohio,
for-the satisfaction of her oficeis and soldiers on continental
establiqhment, and to" limit the period for locating the said
.lands,' shall be considered and held as such until otherwise*
directed by law ;'.' and as said boundary line was run by Ludlow, under the directions of the surveyor general, pursuant
to an act of congress, entitled "An act' to extend and
continue in.force the provisions of an act entitled 'an
adt giving- a right of pre-emption to certain persons who
have contracted with John Cleves $ymmes, or 'his assbciites, .for lands lying between the Miami rivers, in the territory north west ofthe Ohio, and for other purposes,' " approved May 1st, 1802 ; and offered for sale at public auction,
at the Cincinnati land office, pursuant to the act entitled,
"An act making provision for the disposal of public lands
in the Indiana territory, and -for other purposes? approved
March.26th, 1804, mu3t.be cobstrued as having relation bacL
to the above recited act, entitled " .An act to ascertair tie
boundary of the lands reserved by. the state, of Virginia,
,north, west of the fiver Ohio, for the gatisfaction of the officers and soldiers on continental establishment, and to limit
the period for locating said lands," cipproved 23d of Marh
1804 .was passed, urd.'took effect; and as the plaintiff's
patent covers lands west of that line, and south of the Greenville treaty line, and is based on an entry mde in 1810, -on
.a-Virginia continental lalnd warrant, which land had been
surveyed, and sold to the defendant, pursuant to the act of
congrissprior to the year'1810, the.plaintiff'i patent is void:
and their yerdict ought to be for the defendant.
3. That according to the true intent and meaning of 'the
act and deed-of cession from Virginia to'the United States,
and the several acts of congress relative to the sale, of the'
public, lands 'of the United States, the lands lying-between'
the rivers Scioto and Little Miami are bounded b v.aline-ex-.
tendink from the source or poiit of land -fartheat removed
from the.mouths of these respective rivers, from which the
rain'descending on the earth, runs down jnlo ,thirrespec--

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthbr.]

tive channels, along the t6p-of the ridges dividing the waters
of the Scioto from the -waters of the, Great Miami, which
empty into the Ohio below the mouth. of the Little Miami -as
delineated on the diagram re.turned by the county surveyor
for the defendant in this cause; and as the plaintiff's patent
covers land west or without the boundary of thb district so
bounded as aforesaid, and is based on-an entry On.a. Virginia continental land whrrant, which entry was made in the
-year 1810, and which said entry and" patent cover, lands
which had, pursuant tothe acts of congress, bebn surveyed
and sold to the defendant, prior to the date of the plai'ntiff's
said'entry, the plaintiff's patent is void: and their verdict
o~ight to be for the defendaht.
4. That if the line connecting the rivers Scioto and Little
,Miami, cannot, according to the true intent ana meaning of
the said act and deed of cession, and the several acts-of congress for the sale of their public lands, be extended, as stated
in instructions last above asked, then that the line connecting the rivers Scioto and Little Miami, so'-h to include all
the lands between the"said two rivers, must be extended.
from the source of the Little' Miami, parallel to the general
course.of the Ohio .river, until it interseot-,the. river Scioto;
and as the plaintiff's patent is based bn-a Virginia coninental land -warrant, which warrant had- been located in
1810 on lands which had prior*Xo the year 1810 been sueveyed and sold to the defendant pursuant to the acts of congress, the patent of the plaintiff is void , and their verdict
ought to be for the defendant.
5. That if the line connecting the rivers SciQto and Little Miami, cannot, according to the true intent and meaning
of the said act ahd deed-of cession, be extended, as stated in
either of the instructions asked for ahbov6, then that the
sources of the said two rivers must be at that-point in thbir
respective channels, at which, from the union of sever@ rivulets,:brooks, or creeks, sufficient water flows at an ordinary stage, on wniich to .'navigate small vessels-ladni and
that the line connecting said rivers, must be -a direct hne.
from said sources so ascertained. cisaforesaid; and if, from
"the-eiidence, the jury shall find that the lands cbovered'.iy

SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

the plaintiff's- patent, are based*on an optry covering lands
without the limits of said Virginia military district, so called, which-had, prior to the year 1810, pursuant to the acts
of congress in such case made and provided, been surveyed
and sold to the defendant, the plaintiff's patent is void: and
their Verdict ought to be for the defendant.
6. That if the line connecting the rivers Scioto and Little
Miami, according to the true intent and meaning of the said
act and deed of cession, cannot be extended, as stated in
either of the instructions asked foras abbve, then that the
sources of the said two rivets must be considered as commencing at that point in their respective -channels, from
which the water flows at-all seasons of the year; and that
said rivers must be.connected by a direct line, run from said
sournces; and if, from the evidence, the jury shall find that
the plaintiff's patent is based on an entry, covering lands
without the limits of paid Virginia military district, so called,
which had. prior to the year 1810 pursuant tq the acts of
oongress in such case made and provided been -surveyed
and sold to the defendant, the plaintiff's patet is void:
and their verdict ought to be forthe-defendant.
7.V That if the line connecting the rivers Scioto and Little Miami, according to the true intent and meaning of the
said act and deed of cession, cannot be extended; as stated
in either-of the instructions asked for above,, then that the
sources of the said two rivers must be fixed at that point in
their respective channels, farthest removed from their respective mouths, at whith water is found at all seasons of
the year, and that a direct line, connecting said rivers, must
be extended from said points; and if,,from the evidence, the
jury shall be of opinion that the plaintiff's patent covers
land without satd bbundary, so fixed as aforesaid, and which
is based on an entry covering said land, made in.the year
1810, which had pursuant to the acts of congress of the
United States been surveyed and sold to the defendant by
the United States prior to the.year I810, the plaintiff's.patent is void: and their verdict ought tq be for the defendant.
8. That if the line connecting the said, rivers Scioto and
Little Miami, according to the true intent and meaning of

JANUARY TERM 1829..

423

[Reynolds vs. WArthur.]

the said act and deed of cession, and the several acts of congress "ilative to*the sale of the- public lands, of the'United

States, cannot be extended, as stated in' either of 'the instructions asked for above, then that -the sources of 'these
streams are at that.,point, farthest removed from their respective mouths, from which the rain descending on'tiie
earth, runs down into their respective channels; and ±ha the
lands lying between these rivers are limited by a direct line
run from those points; and if, from the evidence, the jury
shill, be of opinion that the'plaintiff's patent covers'land
without the limits of said boundary, so stated as aforesaid,
and which is based. onan entry made in the year 1810, whicl
had,'pursuant to the acts of congress of the United- States,
prior to 'the said year 18O,0'.been surveyed and sold io the
defendant by.the United Statesi pursuant to the acts of-congress, the plaintiff's. patent is void: and their verdict ought
to be for the defendant.
But the court declined giving the instructions asked .for:
to which refusal of the court the defendant, by his counsel,
excepted, and prays the court here to sign and seal thig bill
of exceptions,, which is done acc6rdingly, July 19th, 1827.
This case was argued by Mr Scott for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr Mason and Mr Vinton for the defendant.
Mr Wirt, attorney general, ap ieared for the plaintiff by order
of the 'governmept of the United.tates, but was preveitted
taking part in the argument by indisposition.
Mr,Chief ustice

MARS HALL

delivered the opinion of 'heL

Court.

This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered by. the sipreme court of Ohio for the county of Champaign, in an
ejectment in which the lessee of Duncan M'Arthur' was
plaintiff, and John Reynolds was. defendant, 'The plaintiff
-On.
claimed the land in cotroversy, under a patent
the 12th day of.October 1812, founded on an entryimade in
the year 1810, on a military land warrant graned- by the
state of Virginia for srvices. during the war of: the revolutiop, in the Virginia line, on continental establishment.
-issued

SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

The title of the defendant 'is
thus stated. The land was
sold'by the United States at their land flice in Cincinnati,
in the year I 805, to Henry Van Meter. It reverted to the
United States-in the year 1813 on account of the non-payment of the purchase money; and was again sold, during the
same year at the same office, to Henry Van Meter, to whom
a certificate of sale was issued, which he afterwards transferred to the defendant John Reynolds.
The verdict and judgment were in favour ot tne plaintiff
in the state court. At the trial, the counsel for the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury on several points
made in the c.ause, aid excepted to the refusal of the court,
to give these instructions. The judgment of the state court,
having been against a title set up under several acts of congress, is brought before this Court by writ of error, that ihe
construction
on those acts by that court-may be re-examined. Theputinquiry
will be, whether the court ought to,
have given any one of the instructions which were required.
The several prayers for this purpose will be considered in
the order in which they were made,
1.The first instruction asked is, 'that the-lands west df
LudlQw's line, east of Roberts's line, and south of the Indian
boundary line, had been withdrawn from appropriation under
and by virtue of 'military land warrants prior 'to the year
1810; and that as the same 'had, pursuant to the acts of congress in such case made and provided, been directed to be
surveyed and sold, and had accordingly been surveyed and
sold to the defendant, prior to the year 1810; the plaintiff's
patent is void, and their verdict ought to be for the defendant.
This motion does not. question the bounds of the lands
reserved by Virginia for military bounties, but supposing the
tract of country. west of Ludlow's 'line, east of Rob6rts's'
line, and south of the Indian boundary line iobe within that
reserve, asks the court to say, that congress had, prior to
the year- 1810, when M'Arthur's entry was made, withdrawn
it from appropriation under *and by virtue of military land
warrants.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynolds vs. M'-Arthur.3

Before deciding on the. propriety of refusing or-granting
this, prayer, it will be necessary to review the legislation of
congress on this subject.
The act of the 9th of June 1794(a), taken in connection with
the reservation in favour of their officers and soldiers contained in-the deed of cession made by Virginia, unquestionably subjected the whole of the military reserve to the satisfaction of those-warrants, for which the rese've was made.
Had congress, previous to the year 1810, withdrawn that
portion of this reserve which lies between the line run'by
Ludlow, and that run by Roberts, from its liability to be so
appropriated I
So early as the year 1785, congress passed "an' ordinance(b) for ascertaining the mode of disposing of lands in
the western territory," in which, for the purpose of securing
'to the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line on continental establishment, the bounties granted them by that state,
it is ordained "that no part of the land between the rivers
called Little Miami anid Scioto, on the north west side of
the-river Ohio be sold or" in any manner alienated, until
there shall first have been laid off and appropriated for the
said officers and soldiers and persons claiming unde- "'em,
the lands they.are entitled to agreeably to the said deed of
cession and act of congress accepting the same."
The scrupulous regard which this clause, in the ordinance
of May 1785, manifests to this-condition made by Virginia
in her deed -of cession, is the more worthy of remark, - because at that time no suspicion was entertained that -the
military warrants of Virginia would, cover, the whole territory; and it Was even doubted, as the legislation of congress shows, whether any part of that territory would le 'required for them. '-Even under these circumstances, congres
declared the determination not to sell or alienate any land
between the Scioto and the Little Miami.
Id May 1796 congress passed " an act providing f&r -the
sale of the lands of the United States in the territory north
(a) 2 United States Laws, 440.
(b)1 Uniled States Laws, 563. 569.

VOL.

11.-3 D.

SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

west of the river Ohio and above the mouth of Kentucky
river(a)."
. The second section enacts that, " the part of the, said
land 'which has not been already coiveyed,"' &c. "or which
has not been heretofore, and during the present session of
congress may not be appropriated 'for satisfying niilitaty
land bounties, and for other purposes, shall be divided," &c.
This law then, from which the whole power of the surveyor general is derived, excludes from his general authority all lands previously appropriated for military land bounties and 'for other purposes; and consequently excludes
from it the lands between the Scioto and the Little Miami.
In May 1800(b)f congress passed an act to amend the act
of 1796, which enacts 'that for the *disposal-.of the lands
of the United States directed to be sold by the original act,
there shall be four land offices established in the said territory." The places at which these 'land offices shall be fixed
are designated in the act, and the district of country attdched to each is described. One of these is Cincinnati; the
place at which, the lands in controversy were sold, and the
district attached to it is that below the Little- Miami.
It is perfectly.clear from the language of this act, that it
extends to those lands only which were comprehended in
the act of May 1796, and thatno one of the districts established 'by it, comprehends the land ine'ontroversy.' Any
general phrasei which may be found' in the law must, according to every rule of.constructioh, be limited'in -their
application to those lands which the original act authorized
the surveyor general to lay off for the purpose of beig sold.
If he surveyed any lands to which that act does not extend,
he exceeded his authority, and the- survey is not sanctioned
by the law.- If land thus surveyed by mistake has. been
sold, the sate was not authorized, by 'the law under 'oloqr
of which it was made.

'

The counsel 'for the p!aintiff in error has pressed earnestly
on the Court the grants made to Johi Cleves Symmes, and
(a) 2 7nite&dStaies Laws, 533.
(b)3 UnRed States Laws, 385.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynvlds vs. M'Artbur.1

to the purchasers .under him. . We are not sure that the argument on this point ha&been clearly understood, and hav
therefore examined that-transaction, in order to discover iti
influence, if it can have -any, on the question now irnder
consideration.
In 1787 J6hn Cleves Symmes applied to congress for a
grant to himself and his assooiates of the lands lying within,
the followin'g limits, Viz. " beginning at the mouth of the
Great Miami river, thence running up the Ohio to'the mouth
of the Little -Miami river, up, the main stream of the Little
Miami river to the place where. a due west line, to 6~e continued from the western termination of the northen boundary line of the grant to Messrs Sargent', Cutler & Co. shall
intersect the said Little Miamirriver, thence aue west, continuing the said-western line to the place where the said
line shall intersect the main branch or stream of 'the Great
Miami, thence down the Grdat Miami to the place of beginning." .

In consequence of this- petition, a contract was entered
-into for.ilie sale of one million of acres of land to begiaon
the bank of the Ohio, twenty miles along its meanders above
the mouth of the Great Miami, thence to the" mouth of the
'Great Miami, thence -ul that river to 'aplace whence a line
drawn due east will intersect, a line drawn from the place
the Great
of beginning, parallel with the general course of
Miami, so *as to include one million of acres within" these
lines and the said rivers, and from that .place upon the said
Great-Miami river, extending along such lines to the-place
of beginning, -containing as aforesaid one million of acres.
The language of this contract does not indicite anX intention on the part of congress to encroach on the militiary
reserve, which the ordinanc of May 17.85, then in full force,
- had dxcepted from sale or alienation.
In 1792(a), congress, at the request of John CJ Symmes,passed an act to alter this 'contract in such manner that the
land sold should extend from the mouth of the Great Miami
to the mouth of the Little Miami, and be boundect-by.tihe
(a) 2

nited States Laws, 270

SUPREME -COURT.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

,river Ohio -on the south, hy the Great Miami on the west, by
the Little Miami on the east, and by a parallel of latitude on
the north, extending from the Great Miami to the Little
Miami, so as to comprehend the' proposed quantity of one
million of acres.'?
The lands then which'might be granted to John C. Symmes,
in pursuance of this act of congress; lay between the Great
and Little Miami, and were to lie below the Little Miami.
The Scioto is above that river; so that congress could not
have intended that this grant to Symmes should interfere with
the military reserve.
On the'36th of September, in the year 1794, a deed was
exec ited in pursuance of the act of 1792, conveying toJohn
C. Symmes that tract of land beginning at the mouth of the
Great Miami river, and ixtending from thence along the river
Ohio to the mouth of the Little M'ami river, bounded on the
south by the river Ohio, on the nxest by-the Great Miami,
on the east by the Little Miami, and on' the north by a
parallel of latitude to be run from the Great Miami to the
Little Miami, so as to comprehend-the quantity of 311,682.
acres of land.
It is obvious that this patent does not interfere With the
military reserve. But John C. Symmes had sold to several
persons who purchased in the confidence that he would comply witbh his contract, for one million of acres, and be enabled
to onvey the lands sbld to them.
In March 1799 congresspassed an act declaring that any'
person or persons, who, before the first day of April in the
year 1797, had made any contract in writing 'with John C.
Symmes for the purchase -of lands between the Great and
Little Miami rivers, -which are, not comprehended in 'his
patent dated the 30th of September 1794, shall be entitled
to a preference in purchasing of the Unitect States all the
lands so contracted for at -the price of two dollars per acre.
In Marclh 1801, congress passed an act -exiending this
right of pre-emption to all persons who had, previous to thb
first day of'January 1800, made any contract in writing with
the said John C. Symmes or with any of his associates, for
the purchase of lands between the M~iami rivers, within the
-

JANUARY TE-RM 1829.

429

[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

limits of.a survey made by Israel Ludlow, in conformity to
an act of congress of the 12th of 'April 1792.
The provisions of. this act are supposed to contemplate
ihe survey and sale of the lands which had-been sold to John
C: Symmes between the Miamiriveis; in like manner as had.been prescribed for other lands lying above the mouth of
Kefitucky by the acts of 1796 and 1800. The-right of preemption was limited to lands within Israel Ludlow's survey;
but that' survey contained' less than 600,000 acres,'and the
contract of Symmes was for on6 million of acres; congress
therefore resumed the.consideration of this subject, and in
May- 1802 extended this right of pre-emplion to all those
wlro had purchased frori' John C. Symmes, lands lying betw-een- the Miami rivers,' and without the limits of Ludlow's
survey.. It caniot be doubted.that this right of pre-emption
allowed i o'the purchasers under John 0..Symmes, was limited to lands lying between the Miami rivers and-lying within
his contract; Congress could never have intended that thir
contract should interfere with the .military reserve. That
reserve was. oflands lying above the Little Miami.' The sale
to Symmes was of lands lying below that river. It was made
while an ordinance was in full force, declaring the resolution
of congress not to alienate any part of that reserve. Their
contract was made in subordination to that "ordinance and
cannot have intended to,violate it. The terms of-the cbn- tract do not purport to violate, it. The land sold to Symmes,
and the pre-emption rights allowed to the purchasexs und6r
him, are so described as to furnish no ground for the opinion
that'congress could have suspected them to interfere with
the .military reservd. If the Scioto and the Great Miami,
contrary to all probability,, should take 'such .a direction as
to produce a possible-intefference between the lands sold to
Symmes and the reserve which congress had declared its
resolution not to alienate, some difficulty might. possibly
arise in a case where one of the parties claimed under a
military"warrant, and the other under a pre-emption certificate. But that is not this case. The title of the plaintiff
iri error is ufider a purchase made at a sale of the lands of
the United States at Cincinnati, by Henry Van Meter, who is.

SUPRIEME COURT.
.[Reynoldi vs. M'Athur.]

not stated to have held a pre-emption certificate,.or to have
been a purchaser tinder Symmes.
The instruction. which the court was asked .togive is, that
the.land between th lines of Ludlow and Roberts had been
withdrawn, from appropriation, under and by virtue of military land wartants, previous to the year 1810. This withdrawal is not in express terms, but is supposed tobe implied
from a direction to survey the lands between the Great and
Little fMiami which had been exempted from the operation
of the acts of'1.796 an'd 1800, under the idea tha't they were
domprehended in the contract with Symmes. Congress
could not suspect that the latids to be surveyed under this
law could interfere with the lands lying between the Little
Miami and the Scioto; and consequently, cannot have intended by this act to vary the boundary of the military reserve.
It has been very truly observed, that all the laws on this
subject should be taken together. The condition inserted
in' the deed of cession of Virginia, which reserves the land
lying between the little Miami 'nd the 'Scioto, for the purpose of satisfying the warrants' granted to the officers and
sdldiers of that state; the ordinance of May 1785, declaring
that'no part of that reserve should be alienated ; the contract 'with Symines for the sale of lands lying between the
two Miami; the acts relative to pre-emptigns, and which
-direct the survey and sale of the lands lying between the
Miami; without any. allusion to the military district; must be
taken into view at the same time.
It is, we think, impossiblb to believe that congress supposed itself, when directing the survey and sale of lands between the Great and Little Miami, to be abridging. or altering the bounds of a district which Virginia had reserved ii
the deed of cessfon by which the country north West of the
Ohio had been conveyed to the.United States.
. When congfess designed to act on this subject, the purpose was expressed'; and overtures were made to the other
party to the compact, to obtain her co-operation.
In executing the act of May 1800, the -surveyor general
had caused a line to' be run, from what, he supposed to be

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynolds vs. M'Artbur.]

the source of the Little Miami, towards what hesupposed to
'be the source of the Scioto, which is the line denominated
LudloW's, and surveyed the lands west of that linie in the
manner prescibed by the act of congress.
. In March 1804(a), congress passed an act establishing that
line as" the western- boundary of the reserve, piovided the
state of Virginia should, within two years after the passage
of'the act, accede to it. .Virginia did not accede to it.
In 1812(b), congress made another effort to establish this
line. The president was authorised to appoint commissioners to meet others which shbuld be appointed by Virginia,
who were to agree on the western line of the military reserve, and cause the same to be surveyed and marked 6ut.
These commissioners met; and after ascertaining the sources
of the two rivers, employed Mr Charles Roberts to survey
and mark a line from the source of the one to the source of
the other. This line is called Roberts's line. The Virginia
commissioners, however, refused to accede to this line.
This act provided, that until an agreement should take
place between the commissioners, the line designated in the.
act of 1804, which is-.Ludlow's, should be considered and
held as the proper.boundary line. This enactment is provisional and prospective.
In 1816(c), congress ,passed tin act declaring-that from

the source of the Little Miami to the Indian boundary line,
established by the treaty of Greenville, Ludlow's line should.
be considered as the western boundary of. the military re-

serve, until -otherwise directed by law.; and that from the
said Indian boundary line to the source of the Scioto river,
the line run by Charles Roberts shall be so considered.

When we review the whole legislation of congress.on this
subject, we think the conclusion inevitable, that in the acts
of, 1801 and 1802, which have been cited, the legislature
did not consider itself as altering the bounds of the military
district, or as withdrawing before the year 1820-any pait of
-the territory lying between the Little Miami and the Scioto
(a) 3 Unked States Laws, 592.
(b) 4 United States Laws, 455.
(c) 6 United States Laws, 2S2.

SUPREME COURT:
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

from.beizig appropriated by the military land warrants granted by the state of Virginia. If those acts have -this effect,
it is one which was- not intended.
Before a court can be required t9 declare the law which
would arise between conflicting statutes of this character,
the fact that they do conflict, ought to be clearly established. The counsel for the plaintiff in error has argued this
part of the case as if the fact was established ; as if a line
drawn from the source of the Little Miami to the source of
the Great-Miami would ificlude the land between Ludlow's
line and that of Roberts ; and this Court has thus far treated
the question as it has be~n argued. But this.factIs not established in this case. It is not among the facts agreed by the*
parties, nor was the 'state iourt required tp ifistruct the jury,
that if they should find the land west of Ludlow's, and east
.of Roberts's line to, lie between the Little and Great Miami,
or within Symmes's purchase, "that it had been withdrawn
from appropriatibn, under and by virtue of said military land
warrants, prior to the year 1810," and that M'Arthur.s patent
was consequently void, The court was n6t required to state
the law hypothetically, .as being dependant on the fac ; but
to assume the fact,-and io state the law positively'upbn that
assumption, The record, we think, did. not authoiise the
court to consider this fact as established, andto withdriaw
it from thd jury.
There is no error in refusing this instruction.
2. The counsel for the defendant'then asked the court to
instruct the jury, that, as the third section of the' act of the
congress of the United States, of the. 11th of April 1818, declares : "That from the source of the, Little Miami river to
the Indian boundary line, established by the treaty of Greenville in 1795, the line designated as the westerly boundary
line of the Virginia tract,.by an act of congress passed -on
the 23d day o March 1804, entitled ' an act to ascertain the
boundary of the lands reserved by the state of Virginia, north
west of the river Ohio, for the satisfaction of her officers
and soldiers on continental establishment, and to limit the
period for locating the said lands', shall be considered and
held as such until otherwise dirccted by law ;" and as said

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

boundary line was run by Ludlow, under the directions of
the surveyor general, pursuant to an act of congress, entitled "An act to extend and continue in force the provisions
of an act entitled ' an act giving a right of pre-emption to
certain persons who, have contracted with, John Cleves
Symmes, or his associates, for lands lying between the Miami .rivers, in the territory north west of the Ohio, and for
other purposes,'" approved May 1st, 1802; and offered for
sale at public.auctior, at the Cincinnati land Qffice, pursuaft to the 'act, entitled ; An act making .provision for the
disposal of.public lands in the Indiana territory, and for other
purposes," approved March 26th, 1804, must be construed as'
.having relation back to the time the above recited act, entitled '1 An act to ascertain the'boundary of the lands reserved by the state of Virginia, north west of the river Ohio, for
the satisfaction of the officer's and soldiers dn continental
establishment, and to limit the period for locating said lahds,"
approved,23d of March 1804; was passed, and took effect;
and s the plaintiff's patent covers lands west of that line,
and south of .the Greenville treaty line, and is based on an
,entry made in 1810, on a Virginia continental land warrant,
which.land had. been' surveyed and sold to the defendant,
pursuant to the acts of congress prior to the year 1810, the
plaintiff-'s patent is void : and their verdict ought to be for
-theThe
defendant:
prayer for this instruction is founded on the assertion
that Ludlow's line was run under the direction of the surveyor general, pursuant to the act of congress .of the 1st of
May 1802, granting pre-emption rights to purchasers from
John Cleves Symmes; and'that the land in controversy was.
sold, pursuant to the act of the 26th of March 1-804, making
provision for the disposal of public lands in the Indian territory, and for other purposes.
If by the words "pdrsuant to an act of congress," as used
in this.prayer, it is intended to say that the boundary -line
run by Ludlow was correctly run as required by the act of
May'ist, 1802; and that the sale of the land in controversy was
authorized by the act of the 26th of March 1804, then the
courtis required to decide facts not admitted by the parties,
VOL...-.

E

434-

SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

which are proper for 'the consideration'of the jury; and then
to declare the law arising. upon those facts. If those words
mean no more than that the line was actually run, under the
atithority of the surveyor general, and that the.land in coniroversy was actually :sold at- the land office -in Cinciinati
by the officers of government, the question fairly arises, what
influence have these facts "onthe rights of the parties . Do
they, takep in connexion with the acts of the 23d of March
1804 and of the 11th of April' 181 , justify the inference
which the court is asked to draw,' that thq act of 1818 relates back to the act of 1804, and takes effect from its-date,
so as to .avoid a patent issued in October 1812, on an entry
and survey made in 1810.
It.has already been stated"that the act of the 23d of March
1804 establishes .Ludlow's line; not absolutely, but on condition that Virginia should assent to it; and that Virginia
never did assent to it.
It has alsd been stated that in 1812, congress authorized
the'president to appoint comtnissioners who should proceed
in concert with such as might be appointed by Virginia,.to
run a line which should constitute the.western boundary of
the.Virginia military reserve. These comniss ionrs did meet,
and did cause a line to run from the source. of the Little
Miami to the source of the Scioto. This is called Roberts's
line.' The commissioners 'of Virginia did not assent to this
line. Consequently it is of no operation.
The act of April the 1lth, 1818, declares that Ludlow's line
shall *beconsidered and held as the .true western boundary of
the"Virginia military reserve until otherwise directed by law.
But from what time shall it beso considered and held ? The
language of the law is entirely prospective. It is a principle which has always been held sacred in the United States,
that laws by which human 4ction is to be regulated, look
forwards, not b'ackwards; and are never to be cdnstrued retrospectively unless the language of the act shall render such
construction indispensable. No words are found in the act
of 1818 which render this odious construction indispensable.
the language is that Ludlow's line shail be considered and
held, that is, shall in future be considered and held as the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynolds vs. M'A'thur.]

true western boundary of that reserve. That this was the
understanding of the legislature,'is rendered the tnore probable from the clause which relates to patents. It does not
annul patents already issued, but declares 'that no patent
shall be granted on any location and survey that has.been or.
may be made west-of this line. Patents which have lieen
granted, are not affected directly by the words of-this law,
and must depend on the :pre-existiig act of congress..
The argument is, that this act declaring that Ludlow's line
shall be considered and held as the westerly boundary line
of the reserve until otherwise directed by law, proves that,
according to"the true construction of the deed of c6ssion,
this line is in reality the. true boundary, and therefore that
all titles previously acquired to lands lying west of this line
are invalid.
We cannot admit the correctness of this argument.
That in the state of things which existed in 1812 and
1818, congress might establish the western boundary of the
military reserve, so as to affect titles thereafter to be acquired, is not questioned. Congress might.fix a reasonable time
within which titles 'should be'asserted, -and might annex
conditions to. the extension of this time. But to look back
to titles already acquired, to declare bya law What was the
meaning. of the compact under which those titles were ac"quired,is to construe that compact and to adiudicate in the
form of legislation. It would le the exercise of a judicial,..
not of a legislative power. This construction can never be
admitted by the Court dnless it be rendered indispensable
by the language of.the act- We do not think that the lane"
guage of this act dQes require it.
If the language of the statute does not require ihis construction, neither do the facts that Ludlow's line was run by
order of the surveyor general, and that the land in controversy was sold by the regular-agents of government. These
facts cannot we think carry back the. act of 1818 to-1804,
-and give it a retrospective operation.
We.do not inquire-into the power of congress to pass
such an act. There is undoubtedly much force in the argumbrtt suggested at the-bar,'that the general power of legis-

436

,UPREME COURT.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

latio5, which congress could exercise over theterritory north
west of the Ohio, passed to the new government when the
territory was erected into a state; and that congress retained
only. the power of a proprietor with a capacity "to dispose
of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the
property." 'But it is unnecessary to pursue this inquiry,
because we are of opinion that this construction is inadmissible.
The Court therefore did right in rejectiig this prayer.
The third instruction asked 'by the defendant is in these
*ords; that according to the true intent and meaning of the
act and deed of cession from Virginia to the United States,
the land lying between the rivers Scioto and Little-Miami,
is bounded, by a line extending from -the source or point'of
land farthest removed from the mouths of these rivers, from
-which the rain descending on the earth runs down into their
respective channels, along the. tops of the ridges, dividing
the waters of' the Scioto from the waters of the Great Miami, which empties into the Ohio below the'mouth.6f the
Little Miami, as delineated on the diagram returned by the
county surveyor for- the defendant in this case; -and as the
plaintiff's patent covers land west or without the boundary
of the 'district so:bounded as aforebaid, and is based on an
-entry on a Virginia. continental land warrant, which entry
was made in the year 1810, and which said entry and patent
cover land which had, pursuant to the acts of congress, been
surveyed and sold to the defendant prior to the date of the
plaintiff's said entry, the plaintiff's patent is void: and" their
*verdict ought to be for the defendant.:
In the case of Doddridge vs' Thompson, 9 Wfaton, 469,
this Court said that the -territory lying betWeen tWo rivers is
the whole country from their sources to their mouths; and
a straight line drawn from -the source of one river to the
source of the other wasconsidered, in that case, as furnishing the western boundary of the lands lying betwedn them;
One 6r both of the rivers may pursue such 'a course, that a
-straight line from the source of one to the source of'the
other may. cross one. or both of them. Such a case may form
an exception to the universal applicatiod of the straight line,

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

and may go far in. .howing that no general rule can be laid
down which will fit every possible case. But this obvious
and reasonable rule has.been: adopted by congress as well
as by this Court. The act of 1804 adopts the straight line.
The adt of 18 12.obviously contemplates a straight line, and
the act' of 1818 adopts Ludlow's line, from the source of
the Little Miami to the Indian boundary line established At
the treaty of Greenville,.-and the line run-by Roberts from
the Indian .boundary to the source of the Scioto.
The counsel for the defendant in the state court abandoned the rule adopted by'congreis and by this Court, by
taking for hi's commencement "that point of.land which is
farthest removed from the mouths of the respective rivers, and
from which the' rain descending on the earth runs down into
their respective channels;" and to draw. a line from that
point along the top of the ridges dividing the waters of
the Scioto from the waters of the Great Miami.
We feel some difficulty in comprehending the principle
which has suggested and can sustain this rule. Why should
a line drawn along the top of the ridges which divide the
waters of the Scioto from those of the Great Miami,-consti-.
tute the true bouindary of the country lying between the
Great and Little Miami '.Would such a line certainly lead
t6 the source'of-the Scioto or to that, of the Little'Miami I
*We can give no satisfactory answer to these inquiries. It
is some objection too to this instruction, that the jury would
be much and unnecessarily perplexed in finding the point
of land farthest removed from the mouth of each river,, and
from which the rain descending on the-earth runs down into
their respective channels. If any point exists which would
fit all parts' of the 'description, and could -be found by the
jury,' it is by no means certain thiat such point 'would be in
a line which would mark the boundary of the country between the two rivers.
The rule which the court was asked to lay down appears
to us to be entirely arbitrary; and this prayer was properly
rejected.
4. The fourth instruction has, been' abandoned by the'
plaintiff in error.

SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds vs: M'Arthur,]

5. The proposition on which the fifth prayer depends, isthat the sources of the two rivers must be at that point in
their. respective channels at,which, from the union of several
streams, sufficient -water flow.a at an'ordinary-stage ou which
to navigate small vessels laden."
This rule-ior ascertaining the source of a river is entirely
new in this country. A stream may acquire the name 'of a
river which is not navigable in any part. A- river which is
navigable, may retain that name above tie highest navigable
point. The- meaning of words as commonly used must be
changed before the source of a river can be confounded
with its- highest navigable point.
The Court did not err in-rejectiug this prayer.
6. The proposition on which the sixth prayer depehds is,
"that the sources. of-the two rivers must be considered as
commencing at that point in their respective channels from
which the water flows at all seasons of-the year."
is this proposition so invariably true as to become a principle of law ..- We think it is not. A stream may-acquire
the name of a river, in thechannel of which, at somesea,.
sons of extreme drought, no water, flows. For a great -portion of. the year parts of a stream may flow-in great abundance,-in which, during a very dry seasoir, we may find only
standing pools. , It would be against all, usage to say that
the general source of the river was at that,- point in its
channdl from whieh the water always flows.
This prare" we.think oughtnotto have been granted..
7. The seventh prayer" depends on the proposition, that
the sources of-the two, rivers must-be, fixed at -that point in
,their respective channels, farthest removed from their respective mouths, at which water is fonnd at all season8-of
the'year.
If the terms of- this proposition be taken according 'to
their most obvious import,. it would -seein to vary from-the
sixth only in this: that the sixth fixes the source of a river
at the. point in- thechannel "from,which water flows at all
seasons in the year ; while the seventh, fixes it at that point*
which is farthest removed from-its mouth, at wliich water isfound at all seasons. Understanding it in- this sense, the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

proposition, would not raise the qhestion, Which-of- several
was-the main branch ;'but at what point the source of that
main'branch was to be found.' The remarks made on the'
sixth prayer would apply with equal propriety to this; and"
the Court would come to the same conclusion, on both. 'But
we understand fron The argument,. that the 8ounsel for the
plaintiff in error, intended, by this.prayer, to furnish 'a rule
by which the main branch might be designated. That rule
is, that the branch in whose channel water might be found
fur thest removed from the mouth of the river, iis its thiaii
branch.
Is this proposition universally. true.. That branch. of a
•rive'r, which" is entitled to the appellation given to the main"
river, is a conclusion of.fact tO be drawn from the ei'idence
*in the cause. Consequently ho general rule can be laid
down, which will, in all cases, guide us to.a correct concl,sion. OnV of the 'forks may have retained the name of the
main river, in exclusion'of the others. The. Scioto andMiami are both Indian. names, and if any one 'branch of
either had received from the n'atives,.and retained exclusively, the name given to the main river,' that would have
been the -stream referred to in the 'reserve, coqtained in the
'deed of cession; although water might have been fouind in
a dry season of the, year, inthe channel of some other, at a
greater distaice from the mouth of the river ; or the white
'men, who explored the country before the deed of cession
.was executed, may'have fixed the name on some one.of the'
branches of the respective rivers.
When France ceded to Great Brithin all her pretensions
to the country lying east of the Mississippi, " from its
source to the river Iberville," no-man could have'been so
extravagant as to assert, that the iource Qf the Mississippi
.,as to be looked for through all its branches, and fixed at
that point in the channel of either in which water might be
found farthest removed frdm the mouth of the river.
The size of the rivers, and the notpriety 0o the' names by
.which they were designated, place the umeasonableness of
'such a pretension in so .strong -point of viev, that we -can
scarcely bring, ourselves to suppose that there is any-resem-

SUPREME COURT.
[Reynolds .s. M'Arthur.]

blance between the case put by way of illustration, and that
under consideration. And yet, What is the real difference
in principle q If one branch of a small river has by consent
retained the name of the main river, in exclusion of the
others, that branch must be considered, in the absence of
other eiTcumstances, as the true boundary intedded by the
parties, in a deed which calls for the stream by its name.
The fact :may be less certain and less notorious; but, if
it exists, it must be followed by the same consequences.
If neither branch had notoriously retained the name of the
river, the, main brandh is entitled to it. But the main
branch is not necessarily that inwhose channel water might
be found at all seasons ofthe year, at the point farthest removed from its mouth. The largest volume of. water is
certainly one indication of the. main stream, which does not
necessarily accompany that which the counsel for the plaintiff in error'has selected as the sole .criterion by which it is
-to be determined. The length-of the stream is another. It
is. obvious, that two branches may pursue such a course that
the source of the longest may be nearer the mouth of the
river than that. of the' shortest.
We think the rule prposed in this prayer 'does not- fur-nilsh a certain guide to conduct us to the source -of the'river;
and therefore the instruction ought not to have been given.
8. The eighth prayer requires the court to*instruct the
jury, that the source of each river is at fhat point farthest
removed from its mouth, frodi which the' rain runs down into.
its channel.

-

:We cannot perceive in the rule which this instruction
proposes, any principle -which will' conduict usto.the soiirce
of the main stream: Every objection to granting the seventh
prayer', applies with equal force to this.- They need not be
repeated.
.The court did.not err in rejecting it.
The instructions to the jury, for which the plain.iiff applied
to tbe'state court, are-some of them mixed questions, involving fact with law, and requiring the court to decide the fact,
."Andthen- to declare the, law upon that-fact. Others-propose
a rule, as of universal application, to ascertain the main
-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

441

[Reynolds vs. M'Arthur.]

branch of,a river, and the source of that main branch, which
would unquestionably, ii mafiycases, mislead us-: They
propose one single circumstance) in exclusion of all Qt. ers,
as being the infallible'evidence of a complex fact depend ig
on a number of varying circumstances..
The court very properly refused'to give any of these instructions.
This Court is of opinion that there is no error inthe judg-.
ment of thd state court, and tfiat it ought to be affirmed with
costs.

VOL. I.-3 F

