OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

Alleged defects in the record appear -to be based upon a
msconception.
Our. conclusion concerning the constitutional question
presented, we think, is so plainly correct that a reargument would be unprofitable.
The petition is denied.
MR. JUSTICE DAY took no

part in the consideration or

lecision of this cause.

MARSHALL, AS RECEIVER OF ALL PACKAGE
GROCERY STORES COMPANY, v. PEOPLE OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 294.

Submitted October 12, 1920.-Decided December 20, 1920.

1. At common law the crown of Great Britain, by virtue of a prerogative right, had priority over all subjects for the payment out of
a debtor's property of all debts due to it, whether the property was
in possession of the debtor or of a third person, or in custodia legis;
an ther priority could be defeated or postponed only through passing
the title to such property, absolutely or by way of 'lien, before the
sovereign sought to enforce his right. P. 382.
2. A like right of priority, based on sovereign prerogative, belongs to
the State of New York, as her highest court has decided, through her
adoption, by her constitutions, of the common law, and attaches to a
debt due the State by a sister-state corporation as a license fee or tax
for the ptivilege of doing business in New York, although no statute
of the State makes the tax a lien or declares its priority. P. 383.
3. The question whether this priority is a prerogative right cr a rule of
administration is a question of local law, the determination of which
by the highest court of the State concludes the federal courts. P. 384.
4. The priority extends to. aQ property of the debtor within the borders

MARSHALL v. NEWYORK.
380.

Opinion of the Court.

of the State, whether the debtor be a resident or a non-resident,
and is enforceable against such property in the hands of a receiver
appointed by a federal court within the State, since such a receiver
takes property subject to all liens, priorities or privileges existing or
accruing under the state laws. P. 385. City of Richmond v. Bird,
249 U. S. i74, distinguished
262 Fed. Rep. 727, affirined.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. S. Gilbert, Mr. FrancisGilbert and Mr. William J.
Hughes for petitioner.
Mr. Cortland A. Johnson and. Mr. Robert P. Beyer for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.

On December 4, 1917, the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York appointed
H. Snowden Marshall general receiver of the property of
the All Package Grocery Stores Company, a corpora;ion
organized under the laws of Delaware, but having a ptace
of business and property in the State of New York. The
latter State asked to have certain debts due to it declired
payable-as preferred claims out of the assets in the hs nds
of the receiver. These debts consisted of (a) amounts
due for annual franchise taxes assessed under § 182 of -the
New York Tax Law, and (b) amounts due for license fees
or taxes for the privilege of doing business within the State,
assessed under § 181 of that law and payable but once.
The State asserted in its claim "that said taxes accrued
and became a lien on all the property of the defendant
corporation pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Law of
the State of New York prior to the appointment of the
receiver herein." The District Court held that both

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

classes of claims were taxes, but that the lien created by
§ 197 of the Tax Law applied only to annual franchise
taxes and that no provision of the law gave a lien for
license taxes until a levy was made therefor. It accordingly allowed the preference as to the amounts due for
annual franchise taxes and denied it as to the amounts
due for license taxes. Upon appeal by the State, the
Circuit Court of Appeals held that, independently of
specific statutory provision, the law of New York as
declared by its courts gave to the State as sovereign a lien
or priority for payment of taxes over unsecured creditors;
that this priority was a prerogative right, not a mere
rule of administration; and that it applied, therefore, in
the federal courts, 262 Fed. Rep. 727. The case came here
on writ of certiorari, 252 U. S. 577. The propriety of
allowing to the State a preference as to amounts due for
the annual franchise taxes is admitted by the receiver. No
question of the relative priority of the State and the United
States is involved. Nor does any question arise as to
priority of the State over incumbrances. The single
question is presented whether the State of New York has
priority in payment out of the general assets of the debtor
over other creditors whose claims are not secured by act of
the parties nor accorded a preference, by reason of their
nature, by the state legislature or otherwise.
At common law the crown of Great Britain, by virtue of
a prerogative right, had priority over all subjects for the
payment out of a debtor's property of all debts due it.
The priority was effective alike whether the property
remained in the hands of the debtor, or had been placed in
the possession of a third person, or was in custodia legis.
The priority could be defeated or postponed only through
the passing of title to the debtor's property, absolutely or
by way of lien, before the sovereign sought to enforce his
right. Giles v. Grover, 9 Bing. 128, 139, 157, 183; In re
HenI & Co., 9 C. D. 469. Comnare United Staes v,

MARSHALL v. NEW YORK.

380.

Opinion of the Court.

National Surety Co., decided by this court November 8,
1920, ante, 73. The first constitution of the State of New
York (adopted in 1777) provided that the common law of
England, Which together with the statutes constituted the
law of the Colony on April 19, 1775,,should be and continue the law of the State, subject to such alterations as its
legislature might thereafter make. This provision was
embodied, in substance, in the later constitutions. The
courts of New York decided that, by virtue of this constitutional provision, the State, as sovereign, succeeded to
the crown's prerogative right of priority; and that the
priority was not limited to amounts due for taxes, but extended alike to all debts due to the State, e. g., to amounts
due on a general deposit-of state funds in a bank. Matter
of Carnegie Trust Co. 151 App. Div. (N. Y.) 606; 206 N. Y.
390. This priority has been enforced' by the courts of
New. York under a great variety of circumstances in an
unbroken series of cases extending over more than half a
century.1 It has been enforced as a right and not as a rule
of administration.
This priority arose and exists independently of any
statute.. The legislature has never, in terms, limited its
scope; and the courts have'rejected as unsound every
-contention made that some statute before them for construction had, by implication, effected a repeal or abridgment of the priority.' The only changes of the right made
by statute have been by way of enlarging its scope in
See in addition to cases cited in the text: Matter of Receivership of
ColumbianInsurance Co., 3 Abb. N. Y. Ct. App. Dec. 239, 242 [1866];
Central Trust Co. -. New York City & Northern R. R. Co., 110 N. Y.
250, 259 [1888]; Matter of Atlas Iron Construction Co., 19 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 415, 419 [18971; Matter of Niederstein, 154 App. Div. (N. Y.)
238, 246 [1912]; Matter of Wesley, 156 App. Div. (N. Y.) 403, 405
[1913]; People v. Metropolitan Surety Co., 158 App. Div. (N. r.) 647,
65011913]; Mixter v. Mohawk Clothing Co., Inc., 155 N. Y. S. 647 [1915.
2See Matter of Niederstein, 154 App. Div. (N. Y.) 238, 244-0;
Matter of Wesley, 156 App. Div. (N. Y.) 403, 405,

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Cour.

254 U. S.

certain cases. Thus, while by the common law of England, The King (in aid of Braddock) v. Watson, 3 Price,
6, and by that of New York, Wise v. L. & C. Wise Co., 153
N. Y. 507, 511, the priority does not obtain over a specific
lien created by the debtor before the sovereign undertakes
to enforce its right, the legislature of New York extended
the prerogative right, so as to give certain taxes priority
over prior incumbrances. An extension of this nature
is found in § 197 of.the Tax Law which declares in respect
to the annual franchise tax, that "Such tax shall be a lien'
upon and bind all the real and personal property of the
corporation, joint-stock company or association liable to
pay the same from the time when it is payable until the
same is paid in full." By reason of that provision the
annual franchise tax takes priority over incumbrances on
the corporate property. New York Terminal Co. v. Gaus,
204 N. Y. 512. Under the earlier law a debt for franchise
taxes was not "a technical lien on specific property" and
had been ordered paid out of monies in receivers' hands.
Central Trust Co. v. New York City & Northern R. R. Co.,
110 N. Y. 250, 259. In the case at bar the District Judge
relied upon § 197 as justifying him in giving priority for
the claim for annual franchise taxes; and in denying
priority for the claim for license fees, because in respect to
the latter no corresponding provision is to be found in the
Tax Law. But he had no occasion to seek statutory support for the priority sought by the State; since here it does
not seek to displace any prior lien. It asks merely to have
its prerogative right enforced against property on which
*there is no prior lien and upon which it is impossible to
levy, because the property has been taken out of the hands
of the debtor and placed in the custody of the court for
purposes of protection and distribution.
Whether the priority enjoyed by the State of New York
is a prerogative right or merely a rule of administration is
a matter of local law. Being such, the decisions of the

MARSHALL v. NEW YORK.
3g0.

Opinion of the Court.

highest court of the State as to the existence of the right
and its incidents, will be accepted by this court as conclusive. Compare Lewis v. Monson, 151 U. S. 545, 549;
St. Anthony Falls Water Power Co. v. St. Paul Water
Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349, 358; Archer v. Greenville
Gravel Co., 233 U. S. 60, 68-69; Guffey v. Smith, 237 U. S.
101, 113. The priority of the State extends to all property
of the debtor within its borders, whether the debtor be a
resident or a non-resident and whether the property be
in his possession or in custodia legis. The priority is,
therefore, enforceable against the property in the hands of
a receiver appointed by a federal court within the State.
Duryea v. American Woodworking Machine Co., 133 Fed.
Rep. 329; Conklin v. United States Shipbuilding Co., 148
Fed. Rep. 129, 130; compare Franklin Trust Co. v. New
Jersey, 181 Fed. Rep. 769; Washington-Alaska Bank v.
Dexter.Horton National Bank, 263 Fed. Rep. 304. For a
receiver appointed by a federal court takes property
subject to all liens, priorities or privileges existing or
accruing under the laws of the State. In the case at bar a
warrant for the amount of the license tax might have issued but for the appointment of the receiver, and if the
levy had been made it would have become, under § 201 of
the Tax Law, a *'ien on all the property of the company
from "the time an actual levy shall be made by virtue
thereof." Since the prerogative right of the State could
not be enforced by levy and seizure, an application to the
court for payment of the debt due was the appropriate
remedy. In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, 184.
The State's right to be paid out of the assets prior to
other creditors does not, as pointed out in In re Tyler,
supra (quoting Greeley v. Provident Savings Bank, 98
Missouri, 458), arise from an express lien on the assets
existing at the time they passed into the receiver's hands.
State v. Rowse, 49 Missouri, 586, 592; George v. St. Louis
Cable & Western Ry. Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 117, 118; Hamilton

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

v. David C. Beggs Co., 171 Fed. Rep. 157; Coy v. Title
Guarantee & Trust Co., 212 Fed. Rep. 520, 523; 220 Fed.
Rep. 90. The right of priority has been likened to an
equitable lien. State v. Rowse, supra. The analogous
preference in payment given to claims for labor by state
statutes, and to which the Bankruptcy Act gives priority,
have been described as being "tantamount" to a lien. In
re Laird, 109 Fed. Rep. 550, 555; In re Bennett, 153 Fed.
Rep. 673, 677. The priority is a lien in the broad sense of
that term which includes "those preferred or privileged
claims given by statute or by admiralty law." 2 Bouvier
Law Dict. (15th ed., 1883) 88. The prerogative right of
the State resembles the privilege accorded by the civil
law of Louisiana to certain classes of debts which it was
assumed in Burdon Central Sugar Refining Co. v. Payne,
167 U. S. 127, would be enforced against property in the
custody of a receiver appointed by a federal court. The
fact that the right rests on the common law independently
of any statute, does "not, of course, affect the right of
enforcement in the federal courts.
City of Richmond v. Bird, 249 U. S. 174, relied upon by
the petitioner is not in point. The city sought there in
vain to have taxes declared payable out of the bankrupt's
assets in preference to the claim of the landlord thereon
which was secured by a specific lien arising upon distraint. This court held that the city did not have such
superior right since neither the laws of the United States
nor those of Virginia accorded such priority. Here it is
not sought, to gain priority over a lien existing at the time
when the receiver was appointed; and the priority over
unsecured creditors is granted by the common law of
New York.

Affirmed.

