COCA-COLA CO. v. KOKE CO.
141.

143

Syllabus.

Men must turn square corners when they deal with the
Government. If it attaches even purely formal conditions
to its consent to be sued those conditions must be complied
with. Lex non prwcipit inutilia (Co. Lit. 127b) expresses
rather an ideal than an accomplished fact. But in this
case we cannot pronounce the second appeal a mere form.
On appeal a judge sometimes concurs in a reversal of his
decision below. It is possible as suggested by the Court
of Claims that the second appeal may be heard by a
different person. At all events the words are there in the
statute and the regulations, and the Court is of opiJnn
that they mark the conditions of the claimant's right. See
Kings County Savings Institution v. Blair, 116 U. S. 200.
It is unnecessary to consider other objections that the
claimant would have to meet before it.could recover upon
this claim.
Judgment afirmed.

THE

COCA-COLA COMPANY v. THE KOKE
COMPANY OF AMERICA. ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 101.

Argued November 18, 19, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The defense that the plaintiff's trade-mark and advertisements convey
fraudulent representations to the public affords but a narrow ground
for refusing injunctive relief against an infringer who seeks to reap
the advantages of the plaintiff's good will; and the defense must be
carefully scrutinized. P. 145.
As respects this defense, the plaintiff's position must be judged by the
facts as they were when the suit was begun, not by the facts of a
different condition and an earlier time. P. 147.
Plaintiff's beverage, widely sold under the name "Coca-Cola," with

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

a picture of coca leaves and cola nuts on the labels, and containing
certain harmless, extractives from coca leaves and cola nuts, claimed
to add flavor, with some caffein from the nuts and more superadded,
originally contained also some cocaine derived from the coca leaves,
and was once advertised as an "ideal nerve tonic and stimulant";
but long before this suit began, cocaine was eliminated, the article
was advertised and sold as a beverage only, free from cocaine; and,
for the public generally, the name came to signify the beverage itself,
the plaintiff's product, rather than its ingredients. Held, that the,
continued use of the name with the picture was not a fraud depriving
the plaintiff of the right to enjoin infringement and unfair competition in selling a like preparation under the name of "Koke"; but
that the injunction should not restrain use of the name -"Dope," a
featureless word not specifically suggestive of "Coca-Cola" by
similarity or in use, nor forbid manufacture and sale of the product,
including the coloring matter. P. 145.
255 Fed. Rep. 894, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederick W. Lehmann, with whom Mr. Harold
Hirsch, Mr. Frank F. Reed, Mr. Edward S. Rogers and
Mr. CharlesE. Rushmore were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Richard E. Sloan and Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with
whom Mr. Jesse M. Littleton and Mr. C. L. Parker were
on the briefs, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the' court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the Coca-Cola Company to prevent the infringement of its trade-mark CocaCola and unfair competition with it in its business of
making and selling the beverage for which the trade-mark
is used. The District Court gave the plaintiff a decree.
235 Fed. Rep. 408. This was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 255 Fed. Rep. 894. Subsequently a
writ of certiorari was granted by this Court. 250 U. S.
637.

COCA-COLA CO. v. KOKE CO.
143.

Opinion of the Court.

It appears that after the plaintiff's predecessors in title
had used the mark for some years it Was registered under
the Act of Congress of March 3, 1881, c. 138, 21 Stat. 502,
and again under the Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592,
33 Stat. 724. Both the Courts below agree that subject
to the one question to be considered the plaintiff has a
right to equitable relief. Whatever may have been its
original weakness, the mark for years has acquired a
secondary significance and has indicated the plaintiff's
product alone. It is found that defendant's mixture is
made and sold in imitation of the plaintiff's and that the
word Koke was chosen for the purpose of reaping the
benefit of the advertising done by the plaintiff and of
selling the imitation as and for the plaintiff's goods. The
only obstacle found by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
way of continuing the injunction granted below was its
opinion that the trade-mark in itself and the advertisements accompanying it made such fraudulent representations to the public that the plaintiff had lost its claim to
any help from the Court. That is the question upon
which the writ of certiorari was granted and the main one
that we shall discuss.
Of course a man is not to be protected in the use of a
device the very purpose and effect of which is to swindle
the public. But the defects of a plaintiff do not offer a
very broad grodnd for allowing another to swindle him.
The defence relied on here should be scrutinized with a
critical eye. The main point is this: Before 1900 the
beginning of the good will was more or less helped by the
presence of cocaine, a drug that, like alcohol or caffein or
opium, may be described as a deadly poison or as a
valuable item of the pharmacopcea according to the
rhetorical purposes in view. The amount seems to have
been very small, but it may have been enough to begin a
bad habit and after the Food and Drug Act of June 30,
1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, if not earlier, long before this

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court..

254 U. S.

suit was brought, it was eliminated from the plaintiff's
compound. Coca leaves still are used, to be sure, but
after they have been subjected to a drastic process that
removes from them every characteristic substance except
a little tannin and still less chlorophyl. The cola nut, at
best, on its side furnishes but a very small portion of the
caffein, which now is the only element that has appreciable
effect. That comes mainly from other sources. It is
argued that the continued use of the name imports a
representation that has ceased to be true and that the
representation is reinforced by a picture of coca leaves and
cola nuts upon -the label and by advertisements, which
however were many years before this suit was brought,
that the drink is an "ideal nerve tonic and stimulant,"
&c., and that thus the very thing sought to be protected is
used as a fraud.
The argument does not satisfy us. We are dealing here
with a popular drink not with a medicine, and although
what has been said might suggest that its attraction lay
in producing the expectation of a toxic effect the facts
point to a different conclusion. Since 1900 the sales have
increased at a very great rate corresponding to a like
increase in advertising. The name now characterizes a
beverage to be had at almost any soda fountain. It means
a single thing coming from a single source, and well
known to the community. It hardly would be too much
to say that the drink characterizes the name as much as
the name the drink. In, other wordls Coca-Cola probably
means to most persons the plaintiff's familiar product to
be had everywhere rather than a compound of particular
substances. Although the fact did not appear in United
States v. Coca Cola Co., 241 U. S. 265, 289, we see no
reason to doubt that, as we have said, it has acquired a
secondary meaning in which perhaps the product is more
emphasized than the producer but to which the producer
is entitled. The coca leaves and whatever of cola nut is

COCA-COLA CO. v. KOKE CO.
143.

Opinion of the Court.

employed may be used to justify the continuance of the
name or they may affect the flavor as the plaintiff contends, but before this suit was brought the plaintiff had
advertised to the public that it must not expect and
would not find cocaine, and had eliminated everything
tending to suggest cocaine effects except the name and
the picture of the leaves and nuts, which probably conveyed little or nothing to most who saw it. It appears to
us that it would be going too far to deny the plaintiff
relief against a palpable fraud because possibly here and
there an ignorant person might call for the drink with the
hope for incipient cocaine intoxication. The plaintiff's
position must be judged by the facts as they were when
the suit was begun, not by the facts of a different condition and an earlier time.
The decree of the District Court restrains the defendant
from using the word Dope. The plaintiff illustrated in a
very striking way the fact that the word is one of the most
featureless known even to the language of those who are
incapable of discriminating speech. In some places it
_would be used to call for Coca-Cola. It equally would
have been used to call for anything else having about it a
faint aureole of poison. It does not-suggest Coca-Cola by
similarity and whatever objections there may be to its
use, objections which the plaintiff equally makes to its
application to Coca-Cola, we see no ground on which the
plaintiff can claim a personal right to exclude the defendant from using it.
The product including the coloring matter is free to ll
who can make it if no extrinsic deceiving element Is
presents The injunction should be modified also in this
respect..
Decree reversed.
Decree of District Court modified and affirmed.

