OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

As the State voluntarily made itself a party to the foreclosure suit before the decree went into effect, as indeed
the decree never has, it might seem that the State ought
to be bound in a way that otherwise it would not be. But
if in a revisory proceeding the higher State Court says
that the State should not be bound and that the decree
was wrong in this particular, that is a local question with
which we have nothing to do. The result is that although
the State Court may have acted on questionable or erroneous postulates there is nothing in its action that calls
for a reversal of its judgment.
Writ of Error dismissed.
Writ of Certiorarigranted.
Judgment affirmed.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF MUIR, MASTER
OF THE GLENEDEN.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR FOR A WRIT
OF MANDAMUS.

No. 18, Original. Argued January 7, 1919.-Decided January 17, 1921.
1. Over a privately-owned ship, arrected in the District, and a libel
for damages due to a collision alleged to have resulted from negligence of the owner's agents, the District Court has prima facie
jurisdiction; and a mere allegation that the ship is an admiralty
transport in the service of a foreign government is nct enough to
establish her immunity. P. 532.
2. A foreign government is entitled to appear in the District Court
and propound its claim to a vessel in a libel suit upon the ground
that the status of the vessel is public and places it beyond the jurisdiction; or its accredited representative may appear in its behalf; or,
its claim, if recognized by our executive department, may be presented to the court by a suggestion made by or underauthority of the

EX PARTE MUIR.
522.

Argument for Petitioner.

Attorney General; but the public status of the ship, when in doubt,
can not be determined upon a mere suggestion of private counsel
appearing as amici curim in behalf of the embassy of the foreign
government. P. 532.
3. This court, in its discretion, may decline to issue the writs of prohibition and mandamus to prevent exercise of jurisdiction by the
District Court in an admiralty proceeding, where the jurisdiction
is merely in doubt and the state of the case is such that the question
may well be reconsidered by the District Court and on appeal.
P. 534.
Rule discharged and petition dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John M. Woolsey, with whom Mr. J. Parker Kirlin
and Mr. D. M. Tibbetts were on the brief, for petitioner:
The Gleneden as a British Admiralty transport in the
service of the British Government was and is immune
from arrest under process of the courts of the United
'States and should have been released by the United
otates District Court for the Eastern District of New
York on the suggestion filed by counsel for the British
Embassy as amici curim.
The method of proving the status of the Gleneden as
a British public ship by a suggestion filed in behalf of
the British Embassy by counsel appearing as amici curim
was in accordance with the well established practice.
The Roseric, 254 Fed. Rep. 154; The Athanasios, 228 Fed.
Rep. 558; The Maipo, 252 Fed. Rep. 627; The Adriatic,
253 Fed. Rep. 489.
On the facts shown by the ,suggestion the ship was immune and the District Court Thould have released her
forthwith on that representation.
The Exchange, 7
Cranch, 116; The Roseric, supra; The Broad-nayne [1916],
Prob. 64; The Messicanor-32 T. L. R. 519; The E'issos
(Lloyd's List, Oct. 24, 1917); The Crindon, 35 T. L. R.
81.

It follows that the District Court exercised-an unwar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of amici curie for the British Embassy.

254 U. S.

ranted assumption of power in retaining the Gleneden
under process of arrest in order to force the giving of
security. For, as the vessel was immune from process,
there was no way in which the court could legally force
an appearance by the owner of the vessel.
In our jurisprudence jurisdiction can only be obtained
by personal service of process or by attachment or arrest
of property. Ex parte Indiana Transportation Co., 244
U. S. 456. A ship must be either a public ship or a private ship. Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424, 446.
If she was a public ship, which is conclusively proved by
the suggestion, she was and is immune from process.
It has been held both here and in England that the
question of the immunity of a vessel from arrest can be
properly raised on an agreement such as that made here
to give a bond in the event that the vessel is held not to
be immune. The Florence H, 248 Fed. Rep. 1012, 1014;
The Roseric, supra; The Crimdon, upra.
The jurisdiction of this court to grant the relief asked
is undoubted. There is not any other remedy. An appeal would not have been possible either to this court
or to the Circuit Court of Appeals because the .order requiring the giving of a bond was not a final order as
against any party to the case..
Considerations of public policy and comity between
the Government of the United States and the Government of Great Britain and the necessity for a speedy determination of the important questions here involved require the granting the relief prayed.
Mr. Homer L. Loomis, with whom Mr. Joseph A. Barrett and .Mr. J. Alvis Grace were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. FredericR. Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, as amici curi&s, in behalf of the British Embassy:

EX PARTE MUIR.
522.

Argument of amici curie for the British Embassy.

As an Admiralty transport, in the public service of
the British Government, the Gleneden is immune from
judicial process. The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116; Moore's
Int. Law Dig., vol. 2, p. 576; Moitez v. The South Carolina,
Bee, 422, 17 Fed. Cas. No. 9,697; Briggs v. Light-Boats,
11 Allen, 157; The Fidelity, 9 Ben. 333; affd. 16 Blatchf.
569; The John McCraken, 145 Fed. Rep. 705; The Thomas
A. Scott, 10 L. T. R. (N. S.) 726; The Tartar, Moore's
Int. Law Dig., vol. 2, p. 577; The Constitution, L. R. 4
P. D. 39; The ParlementBelge, L. R. 5 P. D. 197, reversing
L. R. 4 P. D. 129; The Maipo, 252 Fed. Rep. 627; Young
v. S. S. Scotia [1903], A. C. 501; The Broadmayne [1916],
Prob. 64; The Messicano, 32 T. L. R. 519; The Erissos,
(Lloyd's List, Oct. 24, 1917); The Crimdon, 35 T. L R.
81; The Roseric, 254 Fed. Rep. 154. The case oi The
Attualita, 238 Fed. Rep. 909, was distinguished in The
Roseric, supra, on the ground that it was decided before
this country became a co-belligerent.
This court has very recently held that the change in
international relations caused by this nation becoming a
co-belligerent instead of a neutral alters the relation of
the court to cases having an international aspect. See
Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione Austriaca,248 U. S. 9.
The Luigi, 230 Fed. Rep. 493, was also decided while
this country was neutral and no official representations
were made therein until after the vessel had been released
upon a bond voluntarily given by her private owners.
There is another class of distinguishable cases, in which
property belonging to a government has nevertheless
been subjected to a lien for salvage or general average
when such lien could be enforced without disturbing the
possession and control of government representatives.
See The Siren, 7 Wall. 152; The Davis, 10 Wall. 15; Long
v. The Tampico, 16 Fed. Rep. 491; United States v. Wilder,
3 Sumner, 308; The Johnson Lighterage Co. No. 24, 231 Fed.
Rep. 365.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of smici curim for the British Embassy. 254 U. S.
The test applied in these cases is whether the private
lien can be asserted without interfering with the actual
employment of the property in the public service. The
Fidelity, supra.
Other" cases, however, lay down the broader principle
that property belonging to a sovereign Government is
absolutely immune from local jurisdiction, irrespective of
its immediate physical possession. Hassard v. United
States of Mexico, 29 Misc. 511; 46 App. Div. 623; 173
N. Y. 645; Vavaseur v. Krupp, L. R. 9 Ch. D. 351; and
see Moore's it. Law Digest, vol.. 2, pp. 591-593.
It may be noted that this rule does not apply where the
sovereign consents to be sued (United States v. Morgan,
99 Fed. Rep. 570), or to an uncondemned prize brought
into a neutral port in violation of neutrality (The Appam,
243 U. S. 124).
Counsel also distinguished: The Charkieh, L. R. 8 Q. B.
197; L. R. 4 Adm. & Eccl. 59; Oyster Police Steamers of
Maryland, 31 Fed. Rep. 763; Workman v. New York City,
179 U. S. 552; The Florence H, 248 Fed. Rep. 1012; The
Prins Frederik, 2 Dod. 451 (see The Parlement Beige,
L. R. 5 P. D. 213; De Haber v. Queen of Portugal, 17 Q. B.
171); The Swallow, Swab. 30; The Inflexible, Swab. 32.
The criteria of immunity are government control and
dedication to the public service. When government control intervenes, neither ownership nor technical possession
fixes liability -to process, mesne or final, upon the vessel
or her owners. See The Utopia [1893], A. C. 492, 499.
In this case the Privy Council referred to The Parlement
Bdge, supra, as an accepted authority, and in The Castlegate [1893], A. C. 38, 52, the House of Lords also cited it
with approval.
The public importance of the question is not affected
by the armistice.
The suggestion of immunity by counsel for the British
Embassy is a proper method of procedure, and is conclu-

EX PARTE MUIR.
522.

Opinion of the Court.

sive as to the official facts thus stated. Dillon v. Strathearn S. S. Co., 248 U. S. 182..
This court has power to grant appropriate relief in this
proceeding and such relief is necessary to meet the
situation.
MR. JUSTICE Vuw DEVANT R delivered the opinion of
the court.
On July 28, 1917, the Geneden, a British steamship
privately owned, and the Giuseppe Verdi, an Italian
steamship similarly owned, came into collision in the
Gulf of Lyons, both being seriously damaged. November 7, 1918, the British owner of the Gleneden commenced
a suit in rein in admiralty against the -Giuseppe Verdi
in: the District Court for the District of New, Jersey to
recover damages occasioned by the collision; and a few
days later the Italian owner of the Giuseppe Verdi commenced a like suit against the Geneden in the District
Court for the Eastern District of New York. The libel
in each suit attributed the collision entirely to negligence
of servants and agents of the owner of the vessel libeled,
it being alleged that she was in their charge at the time.
When the suits were begun the vessels were within the
waters of the United: States and each was within the
particular district where libeled.
The proceedings in the suit against the Gleneden -are
of immediate concern. After process issued and the
vessel was arrested, private counsel for the British Embassy in Washington, appearing as amici curia, presented
to the court a suggestion in writing to the effect that the
process under which the vessel was arrested should be
quashed and jurisdiction over her declined, because, as
was alleged, "the said steamship is an Admiralty transport in the service of the British Government by virtue
of a requisition from the Lords Commissioners of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
-Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Admiralty, and is engaged in the business of the British
Government, and under its exclusive direction and control and is under orders from the British Admiralty to
sail from the Port of New York on or about November 25,
1918, to carry a cargo of wheat belonging and consigned
to the British Government"; because the court "should
not exercise jurisdiction over a vessel in the service of a
co-belligerent -foreign government," and because "the
'British courts have refused to exercise jurisdiction over
vessels in government service, whether of the British
Government or of allied governments, in the present war,
and that by comity the courts of the United States should
in like manner decline to exercise jurisdiction oyer vessels
in the service of the British Government." An affidavit
of the master of the vessel affirming the truth of much
that was alleged accompanied the suggestion. The libelant, being cited to show cause why the suggestion should
not be acceded to, responded by objecting that it was
not presented through official channels of the United
States and by denying that the facts were as alleged. A
hearing on the suggestion was had in which the libelant
and counsel for the British Embassy participated,-the
latter only as amici curiw,-and at which the owner of
the Gleneden was represented informally, without an appearance. In the course of the hearing counsel for the
-libelant called• on the others to submit proof in support
of the allegations in the suggestion, particularly to produce
the ship's articles and other instruments bearing on the
suggested public status of the vessel, and to present the.
master for examination; but both the counsel for the
British Embassy and the representative of the owner
r fused to do any of these things and insisted that the
court was bound on the mere assertion of the claim of
immunity to quash the process and release the vessel.
The libelant produced the libel in the suit against the
Giuseppe Verdi, depositions given- in that suit by the

EX PARTE MUIR.

522.

Opinion of the Court.

master and other officers of the Gdenede, a certificate from
the customs officers in New York showing the report and
entry of the Gleieden on her arrival, and other evidence,
all tending measurably to show that the vessel was operated by her owner under a charter party whereby the
owner was to keep her properly manned, furnished and
equipped, was to assume any liability arising from negligent navigation, and was to bear all loss, injury or damages arising from dangers of the sea, including collision.
"On all the facts" thus put before it, the court found that
"the Gieneden was owned by and was still in the beneficial
possession of the Gleneden Steamship Co., Ltd., a private
British corporation who, through its servants, was in the
actual control of the steamer and of her navigation, but
engaged in performing certain more or less public services
for the British Crown under a contractual arrangement
amounting to the usual or government form of time charter
party." The court "decided accordingly that the G/eneden
was not a public ship in the sense that she was either a
government agency or entitled to immunity"; and the
suggestion was overruled and an order was entered to the
effect that the vessel would be released only on the giving
of a bond by the owner securing the claim in litigation
or a bond to the marshal conditioned for the return of
the vessel when that could be done consistently with the
asserted needs of the British Government
Afterwards, on November 29,. 1918, the master, appearing specially for the interest of the owner and for the
purpose of objecting to the arrest and detention of the
vessel, interposed a special claim to the effect that the
Gleneden Steamship Company, Limited, was the true
and sole owner of the vessel and he as master was her
true and lawful bailee; and also interposed 'therewith a
peremptory exception to the jurisdiction of the court on
the grounds taken in the suggestion on behalf of the
British Embassy. This clim and exception concluded

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U., S.

with a prayer that the process be quashed and the vessel
released. The exception was not set down for heaing
and remains undisposed of. . There was no appearance by
either the owner or the master save as just stated; nor
was there any appearance by the British Government or
by any representative of that government other than
through the suggestion which counsel for the Embassy
in Washington presented as amii curiw.
After filing the special claim and exception, the master
applied to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit for writs of prohibition and mandamts preventing
the District Court from exercising further jurisdiction and
commanding it to undo what had been done; but the application was denied for reasons which need not be noticed
now. 255 Fed. Rep. 24.
A few days later an arrangement was effected whereby
an acceptable surety company undertook to enter into
and file a stipulation for value in the usual form and in a
sum to be named by the libelant, not exceeding $450,000,
unless on an intended application to this court for a writ
of prohibition the vessel should be held immune from the
process under which she was arrested and detained. Following that arrangement, on December 10, 1918, the
District Court entered the following order:
"On the annexed agreement for security, and consent
of the proctors for the libellant herein, and the recordherein, it is
"ORDETM
that in order to prevent further delay and
expense, the steamship G/eneden be and she -hereby is allowed to proceed on her voyage and leave the physical
custody of the Marshal of the Eastern District of New
York, provided, however, that this order does not and
shall not be deemed to constitute any withdrawal or
quashing of'the writ of arrest; and it is'
"FuRTHER ORDERED that all proceedings herein be stayed

and special claimant's or libellant's time to file any other

EX PARTE MUIR.
522.

531

Opinion of the Court.

or further papers herein be extended to and including the
23rd day of December, 1918, and in case application is
made for a writ of prohibition to the Supreme Court on
or before December 23rd, 1918, all proceedings herein be
stayed ahd the time of the special claimant or of the
libellant to file any other or further papers herein be
extended until ten (10) days after the entry and service
of an order or decree on the final decision of the
United States Supreme Court on the said writ of prohibition."
The master thereupon asked leave of this court to file
a petition for a writ of prohibition preventing the District
Court from proceeding with the suit and from interfering
with the Gleneden in any manner, and for a writ of mandamus directing that court to vacate the order made when
the suggestion on behalf of the British Embassy was overruled and to enter an order releasing the vessel without
requiring security,-the grounds advanced in the petition
being essentially a repetition of those embodied in the
suggestion of counsel for the British Embassy. The requested leave was given, a rule to show cause was issued,
a. return was made by the District Judge, and counsel
have been heard. Whether on the case thus made
either of the writs should be granted is the matter to be
decided.
The principal question sought to be presented-whether
the Gleneden is such a public vessel of the British Government as to be exempt from arrest in a civil suit in rem in
admiralty in a court of the United States-is one of obvious delicacy and importance. No decision by this court
up to this time can be said to answer it-. The nearest approach is in the case of The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116,
where an armed ship of war, owned, manned and controlled by a foreign government at peace with the United
States, was held to be so exempt. To apply the principle
or doctrine of that decision- to the Gleneden would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

taking a long step, and the present posture of this litigation is such that we find no occasion to consider whether
there is proper warrant for taking it.
It is conceded that the Gleneden is not an armed ship of
war, and that she is not owned by a foreign government
but by a private corporation. In a sense she may be
temporarily in the service and under the control of the
British Government, but the nature and extent of that
service and control are left in uncertainty by the proofs,
although the facts evidently are susceptible of being
definitely shown.
Primafacie the District Court had jurisdiction of the
suit and the vessel, The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355, 368-369,
and to call that jurisdiction in question was to assume the
burden of showing what was in the way of its existence
or exertion. Merely to allege that the vessel was in the
public service and under the control of the British Government as an admiralty transport was not enough. These
were matters which were not within the range of judicial
notice and needed to be established in an appropriate
way. They were not specially within the knowledge of
the libelant, nor did it have any superior means of showing
the real facts. Thus from every point of view it was
incumbent on those who called the jurisdiction in question
to produce whatever proof was needed to sustain their
challenge.
As of right the British Government was entitled to
appear in the suit, to -propound its claim to the vessel
and to raise the jurisdictional question. The Sapphire,
11 Wall. 164, 167; The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheat.
283, 353; Colombia v. Cauca Co., 190 U. S. 524. Or, with
its sanction, its accredited and recognized representative
might have appeared and have taken the same steps in
its interest. The Anne, 3 Wheat. 435, 445-446. And, if
there was objection to appearing as a suitor in a foreign
court, it was open to that government to make the as-

EX PARTE MUIR.
522.

Opinion of the Court.

serted public status and immunity of the vessel the subject of diplomatic representations to the end that, if that
claim was recognized by the Executive Department of
this government, it might be set forth and supported in
an appropriate suggestion to the court by the Attorney
General, or some law officer acting under his direction..
The Cassius, 2 Dall. 365; The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116;
s. c. 16 Fed. Cas. No. 8,786; The Pizarro, 19 Fed. Ca.
No. 11,199; The Constitution, L. R. 4 P. D. 39; The Parbment Belge, L. R. 4 P. D. 129; s. c. L. R. 5 P. D. 197.
But none of these courses was followed. The suggestion
on behalf of the British Embassy was presented by private counsel appearing as amici curio, and not through
the usual official channels. This was a marked departure
from what theretofore had been recognized as the correct
practice (see cases last cited); and in our opinion the
libelant's objection to it was well taken. The reasons
underlying that practice are as applicable and cogent now
as in the beginning, and are sufficiently indicated by observing that it makes for better international relations,
conforms to diplomatic usage in other matters, accoids
to the Executive Department the respect rightly due to
it, and tends to promote harmony of action and uniformity
of decision. See United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 209.
Of course, the suggestion as made could not be given the
consideration and weight claimed for it.
From all that has been said it is apparent that the status
of the Gleneden, judged in the light of what wi's done
and shown in the District Court, is at best doubtful and
uncertain, both as matter of fact and in point of law. The
jurisdiction of that court is correspondingly in doubt, for
it turns on the status of the vessel. The suit is still in
the interlocutory stage. The court may take up again
the question of its jurisdiction. If it does, the inquiry
mayproceed on other lines and the facts may be brought
out more fully than before. In addition, the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

may be regxamined in regular course on an appeal from
the final decree.
The power of this court, under § 234 of the Judicial
Code, to issue writs of prohibition to the District Courts,
when proceeding as courts of admiralty, to prevent an
unlawful assumption or exercise of jurisdiction, is not
debatable. But this power, like others, is to be exerted
in accordance with principles which are well settled. In
some instances, as where the absence of jurisdiction is
plain, the writ goes as a matter of right. Ex parte Phenix
Insurance Co., 118 U. S. 610, 626; Ex parte Indiana
Transportation Co., 244 U. S. 456. In others, as where
the existence or absence of jurisdiction is in doubt, the
granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary. In re
Cooper, 143 U. S. 472, 485; In re New York & Porto Rico
S. S. Co., 155 U. S. 523, 531; In re Alix, 166 U. S. 136.
And see Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515, 518-519; The
Charkieh, L. R. 8 Q. B. 197.
Here the most that can be said against the District
Court's jurisdiction is that it is in doubt; and in other
respects the situation is such-that we deem it a proper
exercise of discretion to refuse the writ. Nothing need
be added to show that the request for a writ of mandamus
is on no better footing. In re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14, 26;
Ex parte Oklahoma, 220 U. S. 191, 209; Ex parte Roe, 234
U. S. 70.
Rule discharged and petition dismissed.

