OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, concurring.
To compel an employer to insure his employee against
loss from injury sustained in the course of the employment
without reference to the negligence of the employee and at
the same time to prohibit the employer from insuring
himself against the burden thus imposed, it seems to me, if
originally considered, would be a typical illustration of the
taking of property without due process and a violation of
the equal protection of the law.
But in view of the decision in Mountain Timber Co. v.
Washington, 243 U. S. 219, sustaining the constitutionality
of a law of the State of Washington which necessarily
excluded the possibility of the insurance by the employer
of the burden in favor of his employees, which the statute
in that case imposed, I do not think I am at liberty to
consider the subject as an original question, but am constrained to accept and apply the ruling in that case made,
and for that' reason I concur in the judgment now announced.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissents.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. WASHBURN LIGNITE
COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT, SIXTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT,
OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 55.

Argued January 29, 1920.-Decided December 20, 1920.

A -judgment of a state court cannot be reviewed here by writ of error
upon the claim that it gives effect to a local rate statute in violation
of a carrier's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, when it is
apparent, from the state court's opinion, that it did not uphold s4

MINNEAPOLIS &c. RY. v. WASHBURN CO.
370.

371

Opinion of the Court.

enforce the statutory rate as such but rested its decision on other,
independent grounds, substantial in character, broad enough to,
sustain the judgment, and not involving any federal question of
a kind for which review may be had by writ of error uqder Jud.
Code, § 237, as amended by the Act of September 6, 1916.' P. 373.
Writ of error to review 40 N. Dak. 69, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John L. Erdall, with whom Mr. A. H. Bright and
Mr. H. B. Dike were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred Zuger and Mr. Andrew Miller, with whom
Mr. B. F. Tillotson was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action by a railroad company against a
shipper, for whom it had carried many carloads of coal
between points in the State of North Dakota, to recover
for that service a compensation in addition to what was
demanded and paid when the service was rendered. Judgment went against the carrier in the court of first instance,
and again in the Supreme Court of the State, 40 N. Dak.
69; and this writ of error was sued out on the theory that
the judgment upheld and gave effect to a local rate statute
which the carrier was contending was repugnant to the
due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
If this theory is not right, the writ of error must be dismissed, for it is without other support. See § 237, Judicial
Code, as amended September 6,1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
To show what was involved and decided it is necessary
to refer with some particularity to a prior litigation out of
which the present case arose.
In 1907 the State of North Dakota, by an act of its legisolature, prescribed a schedule of maximum rates for arr-

'372'

OCTOER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

ing coal in carload lots between points within the State,
c. 51, Laws 1907; and this and other carriers refused to put
the schedule into effect. Suits for injunctions against
further disobedience were brought by the State in its
Supreme Court, and the carriers defended on the ground
that the schedule was confiscatory and therefore. in conflict
with the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. On the hearing that court sustained the
schedule and -directed that .theinjunctions issue. 19 N.
Dak 45 and 57. The carriers brought the cases to this
court on writs of error and it affirmed the judgments,
but did so without prejudice to the right of the carriers to
reopen the cases if an adequate trial of the schedule in the
future enabled them to prove that it was confiscatory.
216 U. S.579 and 581. Mandates to that effect issued and
the state court modified its judgments accordingly. In
obedience to the injunctions the carriers then put the
scheduleinto effect in accordance with local laws (Rev.
Code, 1905, §§ 4339-4342); that is to say, they printed
and filed coal tariffs based on the maximum rates named
in the schedule and gave public notice of their purpose to
apply those tariffs. After trying the schedule for a year or
more the carriers presented in the state court petitions
whereii they told of the trial made, asserted their ability
and readiness to prove that the schedule was confiscatory,
and prayed permission to do so. The petitions were entertained, proofs were taken, and on a hearing the schedule
was sustained and the existing injunctions continued. 26
N. Dak. 438. On writs of error prosecuted by the carriers
those judgments were reversed by this court, because the
proofs satisfied it that the schedule was not adequately
remunerative, and the cases were remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with tha opinion. 236 U. S.
585. On receiving the mandates the'state court set aside
its judgments and dismissed the cases.
The injunctions in those cases were awarded without

MINNEAPOLIS ,&c. RY.:v. WAS.HBURN CO.
370.

$78

Opinion of the Court

taking any bond and without imposingany terms or conditions other than reserving to the carriers, as before
shown, a right to reopen the cases and again attack the
schedule after subjecting it to a fair trial. When this right
was exercised the carriers did not ask a suspension of the
injunctions pending a hearing and decision, and the injunctions remained in force until the cases were dismissed.
Neither at the time of the dismissal nor -at any prior stage
of the proceedings was there any order saving or securing
to the carriers a right to demand or collect additional
compensation in respect of shipments whereon the schedule rate was demanded and paid while the injunctions
were effective.
The shipments as to which additional compensation is
sought in the present case were made while the injunction
*against this carrier was in force ;-that is to say, after the
schedule was sustained by the first judgments and before
it was adjudged unremunerative as a resultof the attack
made after it had been in effect for.a year or more. At the
time of the shipments the carrier demanded and the
shipper paid the maximum rate named in the schedule, it
being the duly filed and published rate. The carrier did
not then protest that it was entitled to more; nor did
the shipper engage to pay more.
In suing for further compensation the carrier took the
position that the schedule was confiscatory and therefore
invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment; that the coal
was carried at the schedule rate because the injunction in
the prior litigation compelled it; that the schedule ultimately was adjudged unremunerative and invalid and the
injunction dissolved; and that in these circumstances there
arose an obligation on the part of- the shipper to pay an
additional sum, such as with that already paid would
amount to a reasonable compensation.
The Supreme Court of the State put its judgment
against the carrier on the following grounds:

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

1. There was no contract, express or implied, on the
part of the shipper to pay any rate other than that shown
in the tariff filed and published according to law,-the
court saying on this point: "Manifestly, if shippers cannot
rely upon the rates as so published and filed, the requirement of publication becomes a mere trap for the unwary.
In our judgment, it is wholly improper, in the absence of
clear allegations of the rendition of services under a distinct protest, for a court to find that a shipper had, in
effect, undertaken conditionally to pay according to a rate
different from that published in compliance with the
statute."
2. The injunction, in obedience to which the schedule
was put into effect and maintained during the period
covered by the shipments, was awarded without taking
any bond or imposing any terms or conditions for the
security of the carrier; and in these circumstances the
damage arising from the injunction was damnum absque
injuria, for which no recovery could be had,-the court
citing on this point Russell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433, 437438,1 and saying: "In reality, the plaintiff's [carrier's]
whole case seems properly hinged upon the real meaning
and effect of the first decree of the United States Supreme
Court. The matter that was settled in that suit [meaning
by that decree] was the right of the State to an injunction,
and it was found that the State was entitled to the relief
sought. Neither the state court nor the United States
Supreme Court saw fit to impose any terms or conditions.
The error in the plaintiff's [carrier's] contention
inheres in the failure to recognize the injunction as being
the continuing expression of the court until such time as it
See also Meyers v. Block, 120 U. S. 206, 211; Lawton v. Gnren, 64
N. Y. 326, 330; Palmer v. Foley, 71 N. Y. 106, 108; City of St. Louis v.
St. Louis GaslightCo., 82 Mo. 349, 355; Hayden v. Keith, 32 Minn. 277,
278; Scheck v. Kelly, 95 Fed. Rep. 941; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St.
Louis Southwestern Ru. o... 249 U. S. 134, 145.

MINNEAPOLIS &c. RY. v. WASHBURN CO.
370.

375

Opinion of the Court.

may be modified or dissolved by a new judgment or decree.
During such time, it is impossible that there could have
been any other measure of the rights and obligations of
the parties than that provided in the decree itself.
When that court finally dissolved the injunction, it d:d
not reverse its prior judgment, nor, it seems to us, did it
profess to give to the carriers any rights with respect bo
past shipments that did not exist at the time they were
made. These rights were governed by the former decree."'
3. The principle that one who has, been unjustly enriched at the expense of another may be made to respo:nd
to the latter was without application, for here the shipper
was responsible in no greater degree for wha occurred
than was the carrier.
The opinion rendered by that court shows that it did
not uphold or give effect to the statutory rate as such, but
rested its decision on other independent grounds which
appeared to it to preclude a recovery by the carrier.
These grounds are broad enough to sustain the judgment,
and, if not well taken, are not without substantial support.
See Enterprise Irrigation District v. Farmers Mutual
Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 163-165. Some may possibly
involve federal questions, but under the jurisdictional
statute, as amended in 1916, they are not such as entitle
the carrier to a review of the judgment on a writ of error.
Writ of error dismissed.

