OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

STREET v. LINCOLN SAFE DEPOSIT
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM *THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 278. Argued April 26, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.
The owner of intoxicating liquors, lawfully acquired, stored them prior
to the effective date of the National Prohibition Act in a room
leased in a public'warehouse and so kept them thereafter with the
intention of using them only for consumption by himself and his
family or bona flde guests. It was admitted that they were in his
"exclusive possession and control,".and the functions of the warehouse owner were merely to protect against fire, theft, etc., and to
afford access for lawful purposes. Held: (1) That the warehouse
owner might lawfully permit such storage of the liquors to continue
after the National Prohibition Act became effective; (2) that the
warehouse owner did not "possess" the liquors, within the meaning
of § 3 of the act, hor would it "deliver" them, in the sense of that
section, if it permitted their owner to have access to them to take
them to'his-dweUing for lawful use; (3) nor would it be unlawful
under that section to transport the liquors*from the place of storage
to the home of their owner, under permit from the Bureau of Internal
Revenue. Pp. 90 et aeq.
The act must be interpreted in the light of the Eighteenth Amendment,
which indicates no purpose to confiscate liquors lawfully owned when
it became effective and which the owner intended to use in a lawful
manner. P. 90.
The declaration of § 25 of the act that it shall be unlawful "to have
or possess any liquor intended for use in violating this title," does
not apply to liquors held in storage by their lawful owner solely and
in good faith for the purpose of preserving and protecting them
until they shall be consumed by the owner and his family or bona
fide guests; for that use is declared lawful by § 33. P. 91.
In § 21, denouncing as a nuisance, "any room, house, building, .
,or place where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, kept,"
etc., the word "kept" means kept for sale or barter or other cormmercial purposes. Noscitur a sociis. P. 92.

STREET v. LINCOLN SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
88.

89

Opinion of the Court.

An intention to confiscate private property, even in intoxicating liquors,
will not be raised by inference and construction from provisions of
law which have ample field for.other operation in effecting a purpose
clearly indicated and dbclaxed. P. 95.
267 Fed. Rep. 706, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph S. Auerbach and Mr. Charles H. Tuttle, with
whom Mr. Martin A. Schenck was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr.. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
The Solicitor Generalwas on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUsTICE CiAnx. delivered the opinion of the court.
By the motion to.dismiss the bill filed in this suit it is
admitted: that the defendant Lincoln Safe Deposit Company is a corporation, organized under the laws of the
State of New York, and authorized to engage in the warehousing business; that prior to the effective date of the
National Prohibition (Volstead) Act [41 Stat. 305] the
appellant was the lessee of a room in the warehouse of the
defendant Deposit Company, in which he had stored wines
and liquors lawfully acquired by him, which "are in his
exclusive possession and control, and are intended, and
will be used only for personal consumlption by himself and
the members of his family or his bona fide guests;" that
the defendant Daniel L. Porter is an agent of the Commissioner, of Internal Revenue, charged with the duty of
enforcing the Volstead Act, who in his official capacity has
publicly declared, and threatened that such storage of
liquor by the defendant Deposit Company would be unlawful after the Volstead Act became. effective and would
expose plaiintiff and the Deposit Company to the penalties
of that act, which would be enforced against them; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the appellant desired to continue to store his liquors in
said rented room after the Volstead Act should become
effective and intended to report the same to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, as therein required; and that
the'Deposit Company; moved wholly by the notices and
threats of defendant Porter, had notified plaintiff that he
must remove his liquors from its warehouse or that it
would remove and deliver them to Porter as outlawed
property, to be dealt with under the Volstead Act'after it
became effective.
Averring as a matter of law that such possession of
liquors in a warehouse is not forbidden by the Eighteenth
Amendment or the Volstead Act, the appellant prayed
that an injunction should issue, restraining the defendants
from interfering with his possession of the room in the
warehouse and from removing or disposing of his liquors.
The motion to dismiss was sustained, and a constitutional question being involved, appellant brought the case
by direct appeal to this court.
Thus is presented for decision the question:
May a warehousing corporation lawfully permit to be
stored in its warehouse, after the effective date of the
Volstead Act, liquors admitted to have been lawfully
acquired before that date and which are so stored, solely
and in good faith, for the purpose of preserving and protecting them until they shall be consumed by the owner
and his family or bona fide guests?
.Since the Volstead Act has been held by this court to be
a valid law, the answer to this question must be found in its
provisions, and the sections of it which it is argued sustain
the negative answer to the question given by the court
below, are 3, 21 and 25 of Title II.
Since here, as always, the purpose of Congress in enacting a law is of importance in determining the meaning of it,
it is noteworthy that Title II of the Volstead Act was
passed under the grant of power to enforce the first section

STREET v. LINCOLN SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
88.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, which prohibits the manufacture, sale and
transportation of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, but does not indicate any purpose to confiscate
liquors lawfully owned at the time the Amendment should
become effective and which the owner intended to use in a
lawful manner.
Section 33 of the act is the only one which deals specifically with liquors lawfully acquired before it should
take effect, and it is therefore of first importance in
the oonsideration of the case before us. That section
declares:
"It shall not be unlawful to possess liquors in one's
private dwelling while the same is occupied and used by
him as his dwelling only and such liquor need not be reported, provided such liquors are for use only for the
personal consumption of the owner thereof and his family
residing in such dwelling and of his bona fide guests when
entertained by him therein."
The admissions of fact under which this case is considered bring the *liquors here involved precisely within
these immunity provisions of § 33, except that they are
stored in a public warehouse instead of in a private dwelling. They were lawfully acquired and were intended for a
lawful use, and thus the question is narrowed to whether
such custody by the warehouse company as is shown by
the admissions was forbidden by the act.
Coming now to the sections relied upon as rendering the
custody or possession of the liquors by the warehouse
company unlawful:
Section 25 declares that "It shall be unlawful to have or
.
intended for use in viopossess any liquor
.
lating this title .
But since § 33 declares that the uses to which it is
admitted the plaintiff intends to devote his liquors are not
unlawful, obviously this section does noc apply to the case,

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

-

254 U. S.

for the unlawfulness declared by it is conditioned upon the
intended use idviolating the act.
Section 21 declares that "Any room, house, building,
or place where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, kept, or bartered in violation of *this ,title,'
and all.intoxicating liquor and property kept and used in
maintaining the same, is hereby declared to be a common
nuisance," and for the maintaining of such a place penalties are provided.
The word "kept" in this section is the only one of possible application to the case at bar, and the words ith
which it is immediately associated are such that as here
used it plainly means kept for sale or barter or other
commercial purpose. Its inapplicability to. this case is
apparent. Noscitur a socii. ' United States v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 236 U. S.318, 334.
Section 3, which is the omnibus section of the act,
provides that, "No person shall on or after the date when
the eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the
United States goes into effect, manufacture, sell, barter,
transport, import, export, deliver, furnish or possess any
intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this Act, and
all the provisions of this Act shall be liberally construed to
the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage
may be prevented."
It is argued that the declaration herein that no person
shall "possess," "transport" or "deliver" intoxicating
liquors is. applicable to this case, because the warehouse
company is not "authorized" by .the act to' "possess "
them and because they cannot be used, even lawfully, by
the plaintiff unless delivered and talen away from the
warehouse.
By the admissions the appellant is lessee of the room in
which the liquors are stored and he "is in the exclusive
possession and control of them." Thereby the relation of
the warehouse copnpany to the liquors is restricted to the

STREET
88. •

LINCOLN SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

public function of furnishing such police, fire, and other
protection to its buildings and their contents as the law or
its lease requires on the part of such company and to
allowing the plaintiff to have access to his property in order
that he may remove it for an admittedly lawful purpose.
The company could not sell, give away or otherwise
transfer the liquors to anyone other than in this limited,
way to the plaintiff owner.
The purpose of the Eighteenth Amendment and of this
act considered, we cannot bring ourselves to the conclusion
that such a relation to the liquors on the part of the storage
company as is*here disclosed constitutes a possession of
them within the meaning of this section of the act.
It is equally clear that to .permit the owner to have
access to the liquors to take them to his dwelling for lawful
use is not a delivery of them within the meaning of this
third section.
That transportation of the liquors to the home of appellant, under the admitted circumstances, is not such as is
prohibited by the section is too apparent to justify detailed consideration of the many provisions of the act inconsistent with a construction which would render'such
removal unlawful, and that the act is understood by the
officers charged with its execution as permitting such
transportation is shown by the provision of the regulations
of the Bureau of Internal Revenue authorizing permits
for the transportation of liquors from one permanent
residenc6 of an owner to another in case of his removal,
although no such transfer is in terms provided for by the
act.
Clearly there is like administrative power under the act
to so regulate the transfer of such stored liquors from a
warehouse to the dwelling of the owner as to prevent their
being used to evade the prohibitions of the act or to substantially interfere with its effective enforcement.
Thus it is plain that in the sections of the act relied upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

there is no specific prohibition against the storage of
liquors, under the circumstances admitted to exist in this
case, and we find no other provisions by which such a
custody is rendered unlawful.
The implication from another provision of § 33, than
the one quoted above, confirms this conclusion. It reads:
"After February 1, 1920, the possession of liquors by
any person not legally permitted under this title to possess
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that such liquor is kept
for the purpose of being sold, bartered, exchanged, given
away, furnished, or otherwise disposed of in violation of
the provisions of this title."
Assuming that the unexplained presence of the liquors in
the Company's warehouse would give rise to the prescribed
presumption, yet, if that presumption should be rebutted
by appropriate testimony (as it is in this case by admissions) that the liquor to which it is applied is not being
kept for the purpose of sale, barter, exchange, furnishing
or otherwise disposing of it in violation of the provisions
of the title, the implication is plain that. the possession
should be considered not unlawful, even though it be by a
person "not legally permitted, "-that is by a person not
holding a technical permit to possess it, such as is provided
for in the act.
Without saying that there may not be other cases, the
one at bar seems to be fairly within the scope of this
obvious implication of § 33.
It may be that the custody of liquors by a warehouse
company was thus not declared to be unlawful because the
writers of the act did not have such a case in mind, but it
was more probably because Congress would not consent to
allow lawful possession and use of liquors in dwellings
having storage facilities for them, while denying the only
possible means of preserving and protecting such liquors to
persons with less commodious homes. The Congress was
concerned with the great problem of preventing the manu-

STREET v. LINCOLN SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
88.

McREYNOLDS, J., concurring.

facture and sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes in the futpre, and it seems to have given but slight
attention to the consumption of such relatively small
amounts of such liquors as might be in existence in private
ownership and intended for consumption by the owner, his
family or his guests, when the Amendment and the act
should take effect.
An intention to confiscate private property, even in
intoxicating liquors, will not be raised by inference and
construction from provisions of law which have ample field
for other operation in effecting a purpose clearly indicated
and declared.
It results that the decree of the District Court must be
Revsed.
MR. JuscicE McREYNoLws concurring.
I concur in the judgment of the court, but do not assent
to the reasoning advanced to support it. I think the Volstead Act was pioperly interpreted by the court below, but
to enforce it as thus construed would result in virtual
confiscation of lawfully acquired liquors by preventing or
unduly interfering with their consumption by the owner.
The Eighteenth Amendment gave no such power to.Congress. Manufacture, sale and transportation are the
things prohibited,-not personal use.

