ST. LOUIS & S. F. RY. v. PUB. SLRV. COMM. 53
Opinion of the Court.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 117.

Submitted December 9, 1920.--Decided January 17, 1921.

An order of a state public service commission requiring an interstate
railroad to detour two of its through passenger trains from its main
line over a branch for the benefit of a small city already adequately
served by local, connecting trains, held, void as an undue burden
on interstate commerce. P. 536.
277 Missouri, 264, reversed.

THE case is, stated in the opinion.
Mr. William F. Evans and Mr. Edward T. Miller for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. James D. Lindsay for defendant in error. Mr. R.
Perry Spencer was also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLD9 delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiff in error's main line extends from St. Louis to
Memphis-305 miles. As originally constructed it turned
sharply southeastward at Hayti, Missouri-220 miles
from St. Louis-ran thence seven miles to Caruthersville,
a 'city of four thousand people, thence southwestward
nine miles to Grassy Bayou and thence south. A "cut-off"
between Hayti and Grassy Beyou-six miles-became
part of the main line in 1904 and thereafter through freight
and night passenger trains passed that way. The through
day passenger trains--Nos. 801 and 802-continued to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

move along the old line until August, 1913, when they
were routed over the "cut-off. ' - At the same time two
new daily passenger trains were put on and operated between Blytheville, Arkansas, and Cape Girardeau, Missouri, by way of Caruthersville.
The Missouri Public Service Commission directed the
Railway Company to restore trains 801 and 802 to the
route followed prior to 1913 and the State Supreme Court
approved this action. We are asked to declare the order
invalid because it unduly burdens interstate commerce.
The point is well taken.
'Fourteen local daily passenger trains move in and out
of Caruthersville-seven each way. Some of these make
close connections with all through trains at Hayti. These
locals do not carry equipment of the highest class, but
apparently they afford fair facilities for reaching and
leaving Caruthersville without serious delay or great inconvenience. If deficient in schedule or equipment there
is an easy remedy by means other than detours of the
through trains.
The applicable general doctrine has been often considered and in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v.
Wisconsin Railroad Commission, 237 U. S.220, 226, this
court said:
"In reviewing the decision we may start with certain
principles as established: (1) It is competent for a State to
require adequate local facilities, even to the stoppage of
interstate trains or the re-arrangement of their schedules.
(2) Such facilities existing-that is, the local, conditions
being adequately met-the obligation of the railroad is
performed, and the stoppage of interstate trains becomes
an improper and illegal interference with interstate com-,
merce. (3) And this, whether the interference be directly
by the legislature or by its command through the orders
of an administrative body. (4) The fact of local facilities
this coairt may determine, such fact being necessarily in-

ST. LOUIS & S. F. RY. v. PUB. SERV. COMM. 537
535.

Diaent.

volved in the determination of the Federal question
whether an order concerning an interstate train does or
does not directly regulate interstate commerce, by imposing an arbitrary requirement. Gladson v. Minnesota,
166 U. S. 427; Lake Shore R. R. x. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285;
Atlantic Coast Line v. Nor. Car. Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 1;
Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Cleveland &c. Ry.
v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Mississippi R. R. Comm. v.
Ill. Cent. R. R., 203 U. S. 335; Atlantic Coast Line v.
Wharton, 207 U. S. 328."
Considering the facts disclosed we think it plain that
the fourteen local passenger trains meet the reasonable
requirements of Caruthersville and that the Commission's
order unduly burdens interstate commerce. Compliance
with it would require the Railway to maintain sixteen
more miles of track at the high standard essential for the
through trains, and to move the latter ten miles further
with consequent delay and inconveniences all along the
line. The burden certainly would not be less serious than
those which were condemned in some if not all of the
causes above referred to.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and
the cause remanded for fairther proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTicz PINEY and MR. JusTicE CLARKE dissent.

