OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

There was no purchase of the destroyed articles or agreement therefor-none is claimed-and we think it quite
clear that no contractual obligation by the United States
to pay for them can be implied from the act itself.
The judgment below must be
Affirmed.

THAMES TOWBOAT COMPANY v. THE SCHOONER
"FRANCIS McDONALD," HER TACKLE, &c.,
CUMMINS, CLAIMANT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 97.

Argued November 18, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The rule that contracts for the construction of ships are non-maritime
and not within the admiralty jurisdiction applies to contracts for
the work and material necessary to finisA a partly constructed
vessel which has been launched. P. 243.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel Park, with whom Mr. Henry E. Mattison
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Mark Ash, with whom Mr. Peter Alexander was on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The libel was dismissed for want of jurisdiction and the
cause is here on that question only.

THAMES CO. v. THE "FRANCIS McDONALD."
242.

243

Opinion of the Court.

Seeking to recover for alleged supplies furnished and
repairs made to the schooner "Francis McDonald"
appellant libeled the vessel in United States District
Court, Southern District of New York.
Under a definite contract the Palmer Shipbuilding Company began construction of the schooner at Groton, Connecticut, and launched the hull. That company found itself unable to proceed further, thereupon appellant agreed
with the owner to complete the work and for such purpose
the hull was towed to its yard at New London., While
lying there in the stream the materials, work and labor for
which recovery is now sought were furnished. Later
the vessel, so advanced, was towed to Hoboken and finished by a third company. When received by appellant
the schooner was manifestly incomplete-her masts were
not in, the bolts and beams and gaff were lving on deck,
the forward house was not built, and she was not "in
condition to carry on any service." Appellant worked on
her for six weeks, and thirty or forty more days were
required to finish her.
Was appellant's contract to furnish the materials, work
and labor for her completion, made after the schooner was
launched but while yet not sufficiently advanced to discharge the functions for which intended, within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction? The District Court
thought not and so do we.
Under decisions of this court the settled rule is that a
contract for the complete construction of a ship or supplying materials therefor is non-maritime and not within the
admiralty jurisdiction. People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20
How. 393; Roach v. Chapman, 22 How. 129; Edwards v.
Elliott, 21 Wall. 532; The Winnebago, 205 U. S. 354, 363;
North Pacific S. S. Co. v. Hall Bros. Co., 249 U. S. 119,
125.
But counsel for appellant insist that there is a broad distinction between such a contract and one for work and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

material to finish a vessel after she has been launched and
is water-borne. In support of this position they rely upon
The Eliza Ladd (1875), Fed. Cases No. 4364; The Revenue
Cutter (1877), Fed. Cases No. 11714; both by Judge
Deady, in the United States District Court for OregonThe Manhattan, District Court for Washington (1891),
46 Fed. Rep. 797, which followed the District Court for
Oregon; and Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424, 438.
The first three cases are directly in point, but are opposed
by many of no less authority. Tucker v. Alexandroff must
be read in the light of the particular matter under consideration-detention of a foreign seaman--and the conclusion announced, that after the vessel was launched
"she was a ship within the meaning of the treaty." The
court had no immediate concern with contracts for ship
construction, and there was no purpose to lay down any
definite rule applicable to them. On the other side the
following cases are cited, and they are entitled to the
greater weight: The Iosco, Fed. Cases No. 7060; The
Pacific, 9 Fed. Rep. 120; The Count de Lesweps, 17 Fed.
Rep. 460; The Glenmont, 32 Fed. Rep. 703, and 34 Fed.
Rep. 402; The Paradox, 61 Fed. Rep. 860; McMaster
v. One Dredge; 95 Fed. Rep. 832; The United Shores, 193
Fed. Rep. 552; The Dredge A, 217 Fed. Rep. 617; The Winnebago, 205 U. S. 354, 363; North Pacific S. S. Co. v.
Hall Bros. Co., 249 U. S. 119, 125.
Notwithstanding possible and once not inappropriate
criticism, the doctrine is now firmly established that contracts to construct entirely new ships are non-maritime
because not nearly enough related to any rights and duties
pertaining to commerce and navigation. It is said that in
no proper sense can they be regarded as directly and,
immediately connected with navigation or commerce by
water. Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532, 554, 555; The
William Windom, 73 Fed. Rep. 499; ' Pacific Surety Co.
v. Leatham & Smith Towing Co., 151 Fed. Rep. 440. And

ANA MARIA CO. v. QUINONES.
242.

Syllabus.

we think the same reasons which exclude such contracts
from admiralty jurisdiction likewise apply to agreements
made after the hull is in the water, for the work and
material necessary to consummate a partial construction
and bring the vessel into condition to function as intended.
The judgment of the court below is
Affine.

ANA MARIA SUGAR COMPANY, INC., v.
QUINONES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 54. Argued October. 21, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
1. The rule that errors in rulings of law committed in a trial court cannot be considered on writ of error unless raised by bill of exceptions
has no application to rulings by an intermediate appellate court,
like the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, although it has power to
review the evidence, make new findings of fact and enter such judgment as it may deem proper. Such rulings are part of the record
and need not be excepted to. P. 247.
2. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
under the Act of JLnary 28, 1915, to review judgments of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, does not include power to review findat law. P. 248.'
ings of fact made by that court in an action
3. A mistake in bringing up such a case by an appeal instead of a writ
of error, is cured by the Act of September 6, 1916, but that act does
not abolish the distinction between the two modes of review, and
the case will be reviewed as on writ of error. Id. •
4. Where a judgment of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico iu a.action
for breach of contract was assailed in the Circuit Court of Appeals
as based on a particular method of measuring damages, aflged to
have been erronenus, but it appeared, from the opinion of thelformer.
court that the damages were allowed on other grounds which:were

