OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Appellant.

254 U. S.

States v. Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheat. 904, 907, 908;
Bank of Kentucky v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318; Briscoe v. Bank
of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257; Salas v. United States, 234 Fed.
Rep. 842. The view of Congress is further indicated by
the provision in § 7, Appropriation Act of October 6, 1917,
c. 79, 40 Stat. 345, 384,-" Provided, 'That the United
States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation
shall be considered a Government establishment for the
purposes of this section." Also, by the Act of October 23,
1918, 'c. 194, 40 Stat. 1015, which amends § 35, Criminal
.Code, and renders it criminal to defraud or conspire to
defraud a corporation in which the United States owns
stock.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissents.

MANGAN,

ADMINISTRATOR OF
UNITED STATES.

PILLOW,

v.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 112.

Argued December 10, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

To establish a claim, under Jud. Code, § 162, to the proceeds of property seized by the Government under the Abandoned Property Act
of March 12, 1863, the claimant must prove his ownership at the
time of seizure. P. 496.
54 Ct. Clms. 207, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Chas. F. Consaul, with whom Mr. John S. Blair
and Ida M. Moyers were on the brief, for appellant.

MANGAN v. UNITED STATES.
494.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

Essential findings of fact by the Court of Claims in
this case are as follows:
On January 23, 1863, John H. Hamiter, of Arkansas,
sold 175 bales of cotton to the Government of the Confederate States and executed and delivered a bill of sale,.
containing this paragraph:
"The undersigned having sold to the Confederate
States of America, and received the value' of same in
bonds, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, 175
•bales of cotton, marked, numbered and classed as in the
margin, which is now deposited at my plantation, hereby
agrees to take due care of said cotton whilst on his plantation, and to deliver the same as (at) his own expense at
Conway, on Red River, in the State of Arkansas, to the
order of the Secretary of the Treasury, or his agents or
their assigns."
* The payment in bonds not being made, "five or six
months later" Hamiter notified the agent of the government that if they were not delivered, he would treat the
sale as rescinded, and, the bonds not being forthcoming,
he sold the cotton to his father, who died not long thereafter,
About two years later, in September, 1865, Hamiter,.
"as administrator or other agent of his father's estate,"
sold 70 bales of the cotton to plaintiff's decedent, then
Mrs. Trigg (afterwards Mrs. Pillow) and received pay
for it. Mrs. Pillow sent it to the Red River for shipment
to market, where it was seized by the United States
Treasury agents, under authority of "An Act to provide
for the Collection of abandoned Property" &c., approved
March 12, 1863, c. 120, 12 Stat. 820. It was sold, and

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

for the proceeds paid into the United States Treasury
Mrs. Pillow, since deceased, instituted this action.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition without an
opinion, probably because it deemed the showing of title
to the cotton by the claimant's decedent so obviously insufficient as not to require discussion.
The only warrant for such a suit at this late day is
fountI in § 162 of the Judicial Code and to entitle the
claimant to recover he must prove that his decedent was
the owner of the cotton at the time it was seized. ThompsonThere
v. United
246 U. S. 547, 549.
is no States,
finding by the Court of Claims that Mrs.
Pillow was the owner of the cotton when it was seized,
but it is argued that facts are found which require that
conclusion. These are: that Hamiter owned the cotton,
that he sold it to Mrs. Pillow who paid for it, and that
-after she took possession of it the Government seized it.
It is argued that these facts show title in her, which was
not divested by anything afterwards done by her, and
therefore the claim of her representative for the proceeds
of the cotton should be allowed.
Other facts found, however, on which we must proceed
to judgment are: that Hamiter sold the cotton to the
Confederate States government, and when it was not paid
for declared the sale void and then sold it to his father;
that afterwards, "as administrator or other agent of his
father's estate," he sold it to Mrs. Pillow; and that after
she had failed to secure its release by the United States
Government, she demanded that Hamiter should refund
to her the purchase price. This demand at first Hamiter
refused but "upon fear of threatened arrest and punishment for his transactions in connection with the cotton,"
he consented, gave his note to Mrs. Pillow for the amount
of the purchase price and filed a claim for the cotton in
his own name, which was disallowed. Thus Hamiter
obviously thought the contract in form a sale had been

MANGAN v. UNITED STATES.
494.

Opinion of the Court.

rescinded by mutual consent, and that Mrs. Pillow was
of the same conviction is shown by the fact that when
Hamiter's note at six months was not paid she sued him
upon it but "it does not satisfactorily appear what was
the result of this suit."
The natural and impressive inference from these facts
is, not that Mrs. Pillow obtained from Hamiter a good
title to the cotton and a right to the proceeds of it, but
that these two persons, parties to the sale, who were fifty
years nearer to it than courts can now be placed and who
knew more about it than it is possible now to learn, agreed
that it should be rescinded because of the prior "transactions [of Hamiter] in connection with the cotton,"
which must mean that the title which he was able to
confer upon Mrs. Pillow was not deemed by her satisfactory, and therefore, by mutual agreement she released
all interest in the cotton and necessarily in the proceeds
of it. No rights of third persons being involved, the
parties were as competent to rescind the contract of sale
as they were to make it, and the finding of fact is that
they did so for what Mrs. Pillow obviously thought a
sufficient consideration.
We are not concerned with whether Rev. Stats., § 3477,
prevented the transfer to Hamiter of any rights against
the Government which Mrs. Pillow may have had. The
claimant did not undertake to prove that Hamiter, or
anyone else, had a valid claim, but that Mrs. Pillow owned
the cotton at the time it was seized, and this, we think,
he failed to do. and therefore the judgment of the Court
of Claims must be
Affirmed.

