NILES-BEMENT CO. v. IRON MOULDERS UNION. 77
Counsel for Parties.

NILES-BEMENT-POND COMPANY v. IRON
MOULDERS UNION LOCAL NO. 68 ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI, TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 69. Argued October 22, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.
In a suit by a corporation, a citizen of one State, against another
corporation, of another State, and its former employees and their
labor unions, wherein the plaintiff, praying no' relieL against the
defendant corporation, sought to enjoin the other defendants
from molesting the workmen employed by that corporation and
thereby delaying or preventing the performance of contracts with
the Government for war supplies entered into by the plaintiff and
by it turned over to the defendant corporation for manufacture
and, delivery, and wherein it appeared that the defendant corporation was subject to the control of the plaintiff through majority
stock ownership and through the identity of some of their officers
and director,Held: (1) That the-plaintiff's right, if any, was a right to protect the
contract between the defendant corporation and its workmen from
the interference complained of; that the defendant corporation was
an indispensable party to the controversy, and that, having no interest in conflict with the plaintiff's, it must be aligned as a plaintiff in
determining whether the District Court had jurisdiction through
diverse citizenship (p. 80); (2) that certain allegations of the bill
that the Government contracts had priority under the. National Defense Act, and involved interstate, commerce, werie insufficient to
render the suit one arising under the laws of the United States.
P. 82.
258 Fed. Rep. 408, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell and Mr. Murray $eaeongood for
appellant and petitioner.
Mr. W. B. Rubin and Mr. Robert J. Shank for appellees
and respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The controversy involved in this suit originated in a
strike by employees of the defendant The Niles Tool
Works Company, hereinafter designated the Tool Company, and the sole question presented for decision is one
of jurisdiction.
The petitioner, a corporation of New Jersey, filed its bill
in the District Court for the Southern District of Ohio,
making the Tool Company, an Ohio corporation, several
local labor unions and many of the sbriking employees of
the Tool Company (in the bill and hereinafter designated
"former employees") parties defendant, it being averred
that all of the defendants were citizens of Ohio and residents of the Southern District. The jurisdiction of the
court was thus invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship.
The relief prayed for was an injunction, restraining the
striking former employees of the Tool Company from
molesting workmen employed by that company to take
their places, upon the ground that petitioner had contracts
with the Tool Company the performance of which was
being delayed by such interference. No case was stated,
or relief asked for, against the Tool Company.
The District Court overruled a motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction and granted a preliminary injunction
as prayed for, but, on appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals
found: that the Tool Company was so essentially a subsidiary of the petitioner, and its interest in the controversy
was so certainly on the same side, that it should be treated
as a plaintiff; that any decision of the case must necessarily
so involve rights of the Tool Company as to render it an
indispensable party to the case; and that giving that
company its proper classification as a plaintiff resulted in
the disappearance of the jurisdictional diversity of citizenship and required the dismissal of the bill, which was

NILES-BEMENT CO. v. IRON MOULDERS UNION. 79
77.

Opinion of the Court.

ordered. The case was brought here for review by writ
of certiorari.
The facts essential to be considered, which were stipulated or sufficiently proved on the hearing of the application for an injunction, may be epitomized as follows:
The petitioner was a corporation of New Jersey, the
defendant Tool Company a corporation of Ohio, the
petitioner owned a controlling interest in the capital stock
of the Tool Company, and the same men were president
and vice president, respectively, of both companies. The
president was invested with authority to fix prices for the
two companies, three of the five directors of the Tool
Company were directors of the petitioner, and more than
ninety-five per cent. of the business of that company was
obtained through the petitioner, acting as its general sales
agent. The customary mode of transacting business
between the two companies was for the petitioner to make
contracts for machinery, which it passed to the Tool
Company for manufacture and delivery.
Before the filing of the bill the petitioner had entered
into many contracts with the United States Government
to furnish it, as quickly as possible, with machinery, tools
and equipment for arsenals and for navy and ship yards,
all of which contracts were necessary for the successful
prosecution of the war and were to be given priority over
other work. These contracts had been passed to the
Tool Company for manufacture, the petitioner remaining
liable for their performance. It was averred and sufficiently proved, that the defendants other than the Tool
Company had conspired together, for the purpose of
hindering, delaying and preventing the petitioner from
performing, through the Tool Company, the contracts
thus obtained by it from the Government and for the
purpose of intimidating workmen in the employ of the Tool
Company by threats, violence and coercion, when going to
and from their places of work and when at their homes.

..80

OCTOBER TERM, .1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Such defendants, assembled about the plant of the Tool
Company, had at times by threats and violence prevented
employees from entering its factory to work, and had
threatened to prevent, and unless restrained would have
prevented that company from freely carrying forward
its business and thereby the petitioner from fulfilling its
contracts with the Government and with others.
On this record the questions presented for decision are,
Was the Tool Company an indispensable party to the suit,
and, properly classified, should it be treated as a plaintiff?
If these questions are both answered in the affirmative the
decree of the Circuit Courtof Appeals must be affirmed,
otherwise it must be reversed.
There is no prescribed formula for determining in every
case whether a person or corporation is an indispensable
party or notj but a rule early announced and often applied
by this court is sharply applicable to the case at bar.
In Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 139, this language,quoted with approval in Barney v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall.
280, 284, and again in Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank
Co., 215 U. S. 33, 48,-was used to describe parties so
indispensable that u court of equity will not proceed to
final decision without them, viz:
"Persons who not only have an interest in the coniroversy, but an interest of such a nature that a final decree
cannot be made without either affecting that interest, or
leaving the controversy in such. a condition that its final
termination may be wholly inconsistent with equity and
good conscience."
The case we are considering is essentially one on the part
of the petitioner to protect from interference by striking
former employees of the Tool Company, the contract
which that company had with the men employed by it to
take their places. Petitioner's claim of right, the-validity
* of which we are not called upon to determine, is rested
wholly upon the contiact of. the Tool Company with its

NILES-BEMENT CO. v. IRON MOULDERS UNION, 81
77.

Opinion of the Court.

employees, and the character and construction of that
contract of employment must inevitably be passed upon
in any decision of the case, and, obviously, if the petitioner
should fail in such a suit as this, with the Tool Company
not a party, any decree rendered would not prevent a
re-litigating of the same questions in the same or in any
other proper court, and it would settle nothing.
Thus if the Tool Company be considered as having any
corporate existence whatever separate from that of the
petitioner, it must have an interest in the controversy,
involved in such a case as we have here, of a nature such
that a final decree could not be made without affecting
that interest and perhaps not without leaving the controversy in a condition wholly inconsistent with that equity
which seeks to piut an end to litigation by doing complete
and final justice, and therefore it must be concluded that
it was an indispensable piaty, within the quoted long
rule.
established
Plainly, the
appellant was not mistaken when it made
the Tool Company a party to the suit. But making it a
party defendant could not give to the District Court
jurisdiction against the objection of another party or over
the court's own scrutiny of the record, unless there existed
a genuine controversy between it and the plaintiff, the
petitioner. Judicial Code, ยง 24. That there was not, and
could not be any substantial controversy, any "collision
of interest," between the petitioner and the Tool Company
is, of course, obvious from the potential control which the
ownership of stock by the former gave it over the latter
company, and from the actual control effected by the
membership of the boards of directors and by the selection:
of executive officers of the two companies, which have
been described.
Looking, as the court must, beyond the pleadings, and
arranging the parties accordingto their real interest in the
dispute involved in the case, Dawson v. Columbia Trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Dissent.

254 U. S.

Co., 197 U. S. 178, 180, Steele v. Culver, 211 U. S. 26, 29, it
is clear that the identity of interest of the Tool Company
with the petitioner required that the two be aligned as
plaintiffs, and that with them so classified, the case did not
present a controversy wholly between citizens of different
States, within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Hooe v. Jamieson,
166 U. S. 395.
The allegations of the bill that the contracts which the
petitioner had with the United States Government were of
a character which must be given priority under ยง 120 of
the National Defense Act, approved June 3, 1916 (39 Stat.
166, 213), and that they involved interstate commerce, are
much too casual and meager to give serious color to the
claim now made that the cause of action asserted is one
arising under the laws of the United States. The contention is an afterthought and plainly was not in the mind of
the writer of the bill of complaint.
It results that the decree oi the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be affirmed.
Appeal dismissed, petition far writ of certiorarigranted,
and decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs

dissent.

