OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Statement of the Case.

254 U. S.

lation of the Little Wonder machine to the Henderson
device, the latter considering it an infringement, the former determining otherwise, and to that extent reversing
the decree of the District Court. - Both courts, however,
concurred in ascribing invention to the Henderson device.
In this both courts erred, and the decree of the District
Court is therefore reversed and the case remanded to that
court with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint on
the ground that the Henderson patent is invalid, it exhibiting no invention.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. BUTT, ALIAS WONG SING.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 275.

Submitted October 18, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

An indictment for unlawfully bringing Chinese aliens into the United
States will lie under § 8 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,
where the acts charged do not go far enough to amount to a landing
in violation of § 11 of the Chinese Exclusion Act of July 5, 1884. P.
41.
Reversed.
WRIT of error under the Criminal Appeals Act (c. 2564,
34 Stat. 1246), to review a judgment sustaining a motion
to quash an indictment charging defendant with bringing
certain*Chinese aliens into the United States, viz. , into
the bay and port of San Francisco by vessel, in violation
of § 8 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29,
39 Stat. 880, which reads as follows: "That any person,
including the master, agent, owner, or consignee of any
vessel, who shall bring into or land in the United States,

UNITED STATES v. BUTT.
38.

Argument for the United States.

by vessel or otherwise, or shall attempt, by himself or
through another, to bring into or land in the United States,
by vessel or otherwise, or shall conceal or harbor, or attempt to conceal or harbor, or assist or abet another to
conceal or harbor in any place, including any building,
vessel, railway car, conveyance, or vehicle, any alien not
duly admitted by an immigrant inspector or not lawfully
entitled to enter or to reside within the United States
under the terms of this Act, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000 and by imprisonment
for a term not exceeding five years, for each and every
alien so landed or brought in or attempted to be landed or
brought in." The Chinese Exclusion Act of July 5, 1884,
c. 220, § 11, 23 Stat. 117, provides: "That any person who
shall knowingly bring into or cause to be brought into the
United States by land, or who shall aid or abet the same,
or aid or abet the landing in the United States from any
vessel, of any Chinese person not lawfully entitled to
enter the United States, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall on conviction thereof, be fined in a
sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and imprisoned
for a term not exceeding one year."
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart and Mr. H. S.

Ridgely for the United States:
Chinese aliens are embraced within the scope of §8
of the Immigration Act. United States v. Wong You,
223 U. S.67; United States v. Woo Jan, 245 U. S.552,

557. These decisions established the following propositions:
1. That the Chinese exclusion laws and the immigration
laws each stand in their own integrity.
2. That Chinese persons are aliens within the meaning
of the immigration laws.
3. That if Chinese aliens offend against the immigration

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

254 U. S.

laws they may be dealt with under those laws even though
they might also be dealt with under the Chinese exclusion
laws.
It therefore follows that one who brings Chinese aliens
into the United States does not escape amenability to
the applicable criminal provisions of the immigration
laws merely because the aliens are of Chinese origin.
Obviously, if the immigration laws embrace Chinese aliens,
as ruled by this court, supra, it would be difficult to find
a legal theory which would except from the reach of those
laws one who aids the entry of Chinese aliens, as here
charged.
The contrary theory necessarily asserts that while
Wong You, to use that case as an illustration, violated
the immigration act by the surreptitious manner in which
he entered, and could be dealt with under those laws, yet
if the facts had further shown that he had been brought
in by another, e. g., Butt, the defendant here, the party
bringing him in would escape prosecution solely because
the alien was of Chinese origin, although that mere fact
did not protect the Chinaman himself from the penalties
of the immigration act. Such an illogical result furnishes
additional demonstration of the error into which the court
below fell.
Stoneberg v. Morgan, 246 Fed. Rep. 98, manifests the
view that the Chinese exclusion laws. furnish the sole
guide for dealing with cases involving Chinese aliens, and
the immigration laws are a similar guide for all other
aliens. Obviously, as' above pointed out, that view must
fail when tested by the prinoiples of construction announced by this court in United States V. Wong You,
supra. Cf. Ex parte Li Dick, 176 Fed. Rep. 998; In, re
Lee Sher Wing, 164 Fed. Rep. 506; Looe Shee v. North,
170 Fed. Rep. 566.
No brief filed for defendant in error.

UNITED STATES v. BUTT.
38.

41

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTicE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Error to review a judgment of the District Court quashing an indictment against defendant in error, Butt, which
charged him with feloniously bringing four Chinese aliens
into the United States, in violation of the Immigration
Act of February 5, 1917, c: 29, 39 Stat. 874, 880.
The legality of the ruling depends upon the coexistence
of that act with the Chinese Exclusion Act of July 5,
1884, c. 220, 23 Stat. 115, 117.
We may use in exposition of the case the memorandum
of the District Court (Judge Rudkin). It appears therefrom that an earlier indictment was presented against
Butt charging him in three counts with. having brought
the same four Chinese aliens into the United States. The
first two counts were based on § 8 of the Immigration
Act of February, 1917, and the third count on § 11. of the
Chinese Exclusion Act. All of the counts were based on
the unlawful landing of four Chinese laborers into the
United States. A motion to quash the first and second
counts on the ground of misjoinder, and on the further
ground that the several acts did not state facts sufficient
to constitute a crime, was granted. The ruling was based
on a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
.Eighth Circuit, 246 Fed. Rep. 98.
Upon the trial of the third count a verdict of not guilty
was directed by the court (Judge Farrington), the Government having failed to prove that the Chinese were
actually landed in.the United States.
On June 11, 1919, the indictment in controversy was
found. As we have said, it charged Butt with bringing
the same Chinese aliens into the United States, and all
of its counts were based on the Immigration Act. A motion to quash was made, accompanied by the record in
the former case, in the nature of a plea of former jeopardy.

OCTOBER TERM, 192
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

To. this procedure the Government consented, but contended that inasmuch as defendant did not proceed far
enough to violate § 11 of the Exclusion Act, he was subject to prosecution under § 8 of the Immigration Act, it
being broader and more comprehensive in its terms. To
this contention the court replied, and we quote its language, "In my opinion Congress did not intend that the
courts should indulge in any such refinement as this. In
other words, Congress either intended that persons bringing Chinese laborers into the United States should be
prosecuted under the immigration act or that they should
not. Such was manifestly the view of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in the case already cited."
The court considered that it was its duty to follow that
decision until the question should be decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit or by this
court. The motion to quash was sustained.
This ruling is attacked and that of the case adduced
in its support, by the citation of United States v. Wong
You, 223 U. S. 67, and United States v. Woo Jan, 245
U. S. 552, 557.
The cases support the contention for which they are
cited, and it follows therefore that the ruling of the District Court in the case at bar sustaining the motion to
quash the indictment was error, and it is reversed.
.So ordered.

