COCHRAN v. UNITED STATES.

Counsel for Appellants.

COCHRAN ET AL., AS SURVIVING EXECUTORS
OF COCHRAN, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 116.

Argued December 15, 16, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

Section 29 of the War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898, which taxed
legacies and distributive shares at so much per hundred dollars of
clear value, was repealed by the Act of April 12, 1902, with a proviso saving all taxes imposed by ยง 29 prior to July 1, 1902, when
the repeal became effective. In an action against the United States
to recover taxes computed, returned and voluntarily paid by executors after July 1, 1902, on legacies paid over before that date,
held:

1. That a formal assessment prior to July 1, 1902, was not necessary
to. bring the taxes within the saving clause as taxes "imposed"
prior to that date. P. 390.
2. That such assessment was not necessary to ascertain the value
of life interests in trust funds, their value being ascertainable by
computation upon mortality tables and rules lawfully adopted by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Id. See Simpson v. United
,SUes, 252 U. S. 547.
3. That the fact that the estate was not completely settled and that
the legatees and trustee might be liable to refund if retained assets
proved insufficient to pay all claims, was no ground for recovery
of the taxes, in view of the facts that the personal estate greatly
exceeded in value the amount of the legacies, and the total of claims
and expenses during many years after the commencement of administration was comparatively insignificant. P. 392.
4. One who seeks to recover money voluntarily paid as a tax upon
the ground that the tax was illegal, must prove its illegality and
may not rely on mere assertion and speculation. P. 393.
54 Ct. Chns. 219, Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. T. Newcomb, with whom Mr. Frederick L. Fishback was on the brief, for appellants.

3CTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. F.

The Solitor General for the United States.
MR. Jus.IcE MCKzNNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims denying recovery of taxes paid under the War Revenue Act
of June 13, 1898, and amendments, upon certain legacies
made under the will of William F. Cochran.
The facts so far as we deem them material are as follows:
Cochran died in New York, December 27, 1901, leaving
a will and a personal estate of the value of $7,918,027.18,
of which appellants and Eva S. Cochran were made executors. The latter has since died. The will was probated
January 9, 1902, and letters testamentary issued the same
date and administration was immediately undertaken
and proceeded with without extraordinary or unnecessary
delay.
Six months' notice to creditors was given as required
by the law of New York and the time for the presentation
of claims expired August 4, 1902. Prior to September 30,
1902, debts and claims against the estate were presented
and for the most part paid to the aggregate amount of
$98,589.04 of which amount $66,776.25 were paid prior
to July 1, 1902. Expenses of administration during that
period had been ascertained to be $125,000, of which
sum $13,047.16 were paid prior to July 1, 1902. Otherwise, claims and expenses of administration had not been
ascertained.
Certain sums were bequeathed to the executors in trust
for the children of Cochran and there was also a legacy to
a niece and one to a stranger to his blood. Trusts were
set up in accordance with the will and the legatees were
paid prior to July 1, 1902, the sums provided to be paid.
The aggregate payment so made amounted to the sum
of $3,140,979.10.

COCHRAN v. UNITED STATES.
387.

Opinion of the Court.

In 1892 And 1893 litigation was instituted against the
decedent which might involve the estate, it was estimated,
in the payment of several hundred thousand dollars or
more. The litigation according'to the findings of the
Court of Claims is still in progress and on account of it
money has been retained by the executors that might
otherwise have been distributed. The probable outcome
of the litigation is not shown.
Under the laws of New York funds in the hands of executors after the expiration of notice to creditors are liable
to after-discovered debts, and legatee3 who have received
money prior to the expiration of such notice are liable up
to the amount paid them for claims subsequently presented. The executors were not secured for the payments
to legatees prior to July 1, 1902, and prior to that date
the value of the residuary estate had not been ascertained.
In compliance with ยง 30 of the Act of June 13, 1898,
the executors on February'17, 1903, made a return and
filed it with the Collector of Internal Revenue giving a
schedule of the legacies arising from the personal property
of the estate and the amount of tax due thereon. The
Collector accepted the schedule as correct. The amount
paid to him by the executors w~s the amount they estimated as tl~e amount of the taxes due. The schedule
showed the taxes on each legacy and that the total was
$158,321.78, which sum was by the Collector paid to the
United States.
July 16, 1904, a demand was made upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the repayment to the executors of the sum paid. After one rejection (October 22,
1910), the Commissioner (March 15, 1915), recommended
the claim for allowance in the sum of $107,292,24. and
for the rejection of $51,029.54. The recomwmendation
was approved by the Secretary of the Treasury. The
former sum was paid, the latter was not, and remains

unrefunded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

This sum was computed in respect to the interest of
eight different legatees of which six were residuary legatees,
and the computations were made according to certain
general rules, tables and instructions for the use of Internal Revenue officers, administrators and trustees in determining the amount of taxes to be paid to the United
States upon legacies or distributive shares arising from
personal property under the Act of June 13, 1898. There
was no special investigation by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue as to the expectancy of life of the several
beneficiaries or as to the earning power of the bonds placed
in trust for them respectively, and for their benefit.
The contentions of the parties are quite accurately
opposed. The appellants contend that an assessment was
a necessary condition to the collection of thE taxes and
that there was no assessment until after July 1, 1902,
and that on that date the law which established the taxes
was repealed.
In opposition it is urged by the United States that if an
assessment was necessary the right to make it was reserved
by the Repealing Act, and that the appellants, as executors, having made a report of the legacies and the taxes
thereon, the report and its acceptance by the Collector
of Internal Revenue was -to all intents and purposes an
assessment. It is further urged that if an assessment was
necessary for the purpose of collecting the taxes, it is now
immaterial.
These contentions constitute the issue in the case and
depend upon the relation of the law (mostly statutory)
to the facts and what it determines. As an element in
the determination, the use of the rules of the Department
and the mortality tables counsel dismisses from controversy, in concession to Henry v. United States, 251 U. S.
393, and Simpson v. United States, 252 U. S. 547. The
remaining element, that is, the necessity of an assessment
prior to July 1, 1902, to the validity of the taxes in ques-

COCHRAN v., UNITED STATES.
38.

391

Opinion of the Court.

tion, counsel for appellants say, revolves "upon the meaning and application of the word 'imposed,' the fifth word in
the special saving clause of the repealing Act of April 12,
1902." And counsel define the word to include all of
the steps necessary to the collection of a tax, making it
tantamount to "accrued."
In other words, the contention is, that a tax is not "imposed" by the simple
declaration of a law that property shall be subject to it,
but "imposed" only when the tax becomes due and payable, and that the taxes in the present case had not reached
that essential condition before July 1, 1902, because they
had not been assessed. In. support of the contention,
counsel cites Mason v. Sargent, 104 U. S. 689, and Hertz v.
Woodman, 218 U. S. 205. There is much in the latter
case which, it may be urged, is adverse to the contention,
but upon this we are not called upon to pass, for counsel
concede that if a statute imposes a tax in such way as
that the amount is readily reduced to a certainty, no
assessment is necessary. And this is true of the taxes in
question.
By ยง 29 of the Act of June 13, 1898, c. 448, 30 Stat.
448, legacies or distributive shares such as this case is
concerned with 1 are made subject to a duty at the rate
of seventy-five cents for each and every hundred dollars
of the clear value thereof and the tax is made a lien and
charge for twenty years and its payment required before
payment and distribution to the legatees. The section
also requires the trustee to make and render to the Collector a schedule, list or statement of the legacies together
with the amount of duty that has accrued or shall accrue
thereon. Section 30 was amended March 2, 1901, but no
change in anything important to the present controversy.
Section 29 and the amendments of March 2, 1901, were
repealed by Act of April 12, 1902, c. 500, 32 Stat. 97, e
I We disregard a. distinction in the legacies as not important to
the argument.

.392

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

8eq., but it was provided that, all taxes or duties imposed
by section twenty-nine . . . and amendments thereof,
prior to the taking effect" of the repealing act, should
"be subject, as to lien, charge, collection, and otherwise,
and amendto the provisions of section thirty . .
ments thereof, which are hereby continued in force."
Except as so continued in force the repealing statute took
effect July 1, 1902.
The schedule under ยง 29 was rendered, as we have seen,
accepted by the Collector, and taxes were paid in accordance therewith, in the sum of $158,321.78.
The schedule included legacies that had been paid after
July 1, 1902, but as by Act of June 27, 1902, c. 1160, 32
Stat. 406, such legacies were not subject to a tax, the
taxes on them were refunded, upon demand of the executors, but the Government refused to refund the taxes
on legacies paid prior to that date. This suit was brought
for their amount, that is, the sum of $51,029.54.
To support recovery, it is contended that there was no
obligation of payment because, as has already been said,
the amount to be paid was not made certain by assessment, or, to quote counsel, was not "so certain (or capable
of such ascertainment) that reasonable minds could not
disagree and that the exercise of judgment and the consideration and weighing of evidence could not affect the
result." For this Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S.
701, and other cases are cited and reviewed.
But we cannot agree that there was uncertainty. We
have seen the amount of taxes imposed by the statute
was definite and the appellants had no trouble in estimating and returning the value of the legacies upon which
it was impoed. The basis of the claim of uncertainty
i5that the estate was and is not settled and that there is
a possibility that the legatees may be called upon to pay
debts. The contention is as strained and baseless as that
rejected in Simpson v. United States, supra.

COCHRAN v. UNITED STATES.
387.

Opinion of the Court.

It is to be remembered besides, that the case does not
present a case of resistance to the payment of a tax, but
of the recovery of taxes voluntarily paid and that, therefore, the illegality of them should be shown not only by
averment but by proof, not, as it is attempted to be, by
assertion and speculation. It is true that it is averred
that prior to July 1, 1902, the amount of claims against
the estate had not been ascertained and that there was
responsibility upon the trustees and legatees to make a
return of the whole or ratable portions of the legacies to
the extent that the sums remaining in the estate should
be insufficient to satisfy all valid claims. It is conceded,
however, the contingency of this might have terminated
August 1, 1902, and while itis averred that the clear value
of the interests of the legatees was at all times prior to
July 1, 1902, uncertain and indefinite, and still is so,
there stand in opposition*the facts of the case and the
refutation that an estate of the net personal valueof
nearly eight million dollars was or is in danger of embarrassment by the payment of legacies of less than one
million dollars. And we have seen that the executors
who had knowledge of the condition of the estate, and all
that it might be made subject to, did not hesitate to make
a return of the legacies to the Collector of Internal Revenue and pay the taxes thereon. The petition in this case
was filed in the Court of Claims June 23, 1916, fourteen
years after the commencement of the administration
of the estate and nearly as long after the time of presentation of claims against it, and the record shows that
the total of the claims and expenses of administr-tion,
including funeral expenses, amounts to the sum of
$235,700. ' in the face of this exhibition we are asked to
speculate upon possibility of the existence of liabilities
that fourteen years have not developed.
Judgment affirmed.

