OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

HAUPT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 85. Argued November 10, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
Appellint sued to recover a large sam of money for the use which
Le claimed the Government had made 6f his patented improvements in dikes and breakwaters in the construction of jetties,
which, with dredging, had resulted in rendering navigable to seagoing vessels the channel of Aransas Pass, on the coast of Texas.
Held, that the appropriation acts evinced the willingness of Congress to expend money in testing his patented devices, but no
intention to pay him until their usefulness should be proved; and
that no promise of the Government to pay him for the use made
could reasonably be implied. P. 278.
53 Ct. Clms 591, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin Carter, with whom Mr. George Ramsey
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Daniel L. Morris, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis
and Mr. Edward G. Curtis, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.

Aransas Pass is an inlet, naturally too shallow for ocean
navigation, connecting the waters of the Gulf of Mexico
and those of Aransas Bay and the Bay of Corpus Christi
on-the coast of Texas. The problem of obtaining a navigable channel through -this Pass occuliied the attention
of the Government and of private enterprise for many

HAUPT v. UNITED STATFS.2
272.

'.273

Opinion of the Court.

years prior to 1912, when a channel of the'desired depth
of twenty feet was obtained.
This is a suit instituted by the appellant, Haupt, a distinguished engineer and the patentee of improvements
in dikes and breakwaters, to recover a large sum of money
for the use which he claims the Government made of his
invention in the construction of jetties, which, with dredging, resulted in the creating of the Aransas Pass channel
in 1912. The Court of Claims dismissed the petition holding that no contract, express or implied, with the United
States was shown for the use of appellant's patented invention and that it was therefore without jurisdiction.
A resum6 of what was done in the effort to procure the
channel, which is necessary to a decision of the case, will
develop the relations of the appellant to the enterprise
and to the Government on which he bases his claim.
Between 1880 and 1889 the United States Government
constructed what is designated in the record as the "Mansfield Jetty," 5,500 feet in length, designed to deepen the
channel through the Pass,-but it had no appreciable
effect on the depth of water and the work was suspended
in 1889.
In 1890 the State of Texas chartered the Aransas Pass
Harbor Company, a private corporation, organized for
the purpose of improving the channel at Aransas Pass,
and in the same year Congress authorized the company
to construct such jetties and breakwaters as might be
necessary to create and permanently maintain a navigable channel "across the outer bar, which obstructs
the entrance to Aransas Pass Harbor." This company
built the jetty designated in the record as the "Nelson
Jetty," about 1,800 feet in length, which also failed to
deepen the channel and was abandoned in 1893.
In 1894 another act of Congress granted an extension
of time to the same company to further pursue its objects,
and at this point in the history the. appellant appeared

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U' S.

with United States Patent No. 380,569 for certain improvements in dikes and breakwaters for improving the channels
of rivers and harbors.
In the view we take of the case it will be a sufficient
statement of the principle involved in, and of the claims
of, appellant's patent to.say that the inventor aimed to
accomplish results with a single jetty, of a form specially
adapted to each lccality, which had. theretofore been
accomplished only with two or more jetties. The claims
are variously worded, as usual, but the substance of the
alleged discovery is, that the study of the conformation
of the bottom and shores of a given locality and of the prevailing currents, tidal and other, will enable one skilled
in the art to so apply the principles disclosed in the patent
as to give such form and location to a single breakwater
or jetty that it will "cut the advancing waves" and
"resist and decompose the flood resultant" in such mnanner
that, without the aid of a second jetty or of dredging, it
will scour out and maintain a channel of the required
depth in a designated location.
The appellant granted a license 'to the Aransas Pass
Harbor Company to use his patented device or design,
on condition that the work should be done under his
supervision, and he thereupon prepared the necessary
plans and drawings for the construction which he thought
would effectuate the desired result. The cost of the jetty,
as thus designed by the appellant, was too great for the
resources of the company and, upon request, he eliminated
a portion of it which reduced the estimated cost by onehalf. The jetty thus modified consisted of a reverse curve
or letter S and a contract for the construction of it was
let in July, 1895. Work was prosecuted vigorously until
,the following January, by- which time it was ascertained
"that a portion of the first, the "Mansfield Jetty," which
had been reported officially as having disappeared, was
still in place and in such a position, it was claimed, as to

HAUPT b. UNITED STATES.
,272.

Opinion of the Codet.

preventfree erosion by the 6urrehts as they'had beeni and
would be modified: by the new jetty, flider constiuction.
Thereupon a contract was let for the removal of-a pakt;of
the "Mansfield Jetty," but in May, 1897, before the n~w
jetty Was completed or the old one removed, .ll .workwas
suspended.
This suspension in the month of May, 1897, markk the
end of 'the effort to obtain the desired'channel through
private enterprise, and Congress, in May of the following
year, by resolution called upon the Secretary of War to
prepare and submit plans for the deepening of the Pass to
at least twenty feet. Six months later a board created by
the War Department reported in favor of two jetties, to -be
supplemented by dredging. It was recommended that
the northerly jetty should be located substantially upon
-the line of the one partially constructed by the Aransas
Pass Harbor Company, and the other some distance
southerly from it.
While the subject was thus before Congress, appellant
'brought his plan for dealing with the problem to the atten'tion of the committee, and proposed to enter into a-contract to construct and maintain, the desired channel for a
much less sum of money than the estimated cost of the
.work recommended by the War Department board. His
-proposition was given serious attention and,, although
it was rejected, he was assured by members of the. congressional committee that they desired to give his"plan, a
trial,-as well they might, for, if it had proved successful,
it would have resulted in a great saving to the Goveriment in'dealing with many like sittiations .nd prdblems..
Before any. further work was .done' the Aranas Pass
Harbor Company conveyed to, the United States the jetty
or:-breakwater, which we have seen was constructdd as
designed by appellant, and Congress, in 1899,,appropriated
$60,000 for dredging and improving-the Pass; but withthe
proviso that the Secretary -of War. was authorized "to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

contract for the removal of that portion of the old Government jetty [the Mansfield Jetty] in said harbor from the
end nearest the curved jetty" constructed by the Aransas
Pass Harbor Company, but in such manner as not to interfere with that jetty. This is a plain indication of interest
on the part of Congress in appellant's theory or method of
dealing with the problem, for he was claiming that the old
jetty constituted an obstruction to the action of the water
and prevented the jetty which the Harbor Company had
built under his direction from scouring out the desired
channel..
That appropriation was expended and three years later,
in 1902, Congress appropriated $250,000 for continuing
the improvement of the Pass, but again with the proviso
"that the work at this harbor shall be.confined to the
completion of the north jetty in accordance with the
design and specifications of the Aransas Pass Harbor
Company, and in continuation of the work heretofore
carried out on said jetty by said company."
Here again is plainly evidenced the purpose of Congress
to give appellant's theory a full and fair trial, for, it should
be noted, as yet it had never been reduced to actual
practice.
Plans and specifications for the contract under this
second appropriation were drawn by the Government
engineer in charge and were by him submitted to the Aransas Pass Harbor Company and the appellant suggested
.amendments, which were adopted. Among other things
done under this contract was the removal of a considerable
part of the Mansfield Jetty which the appellant had
claimed so affected the action of the currents as to prevent
the obtaining of the desired results from his construction.
Three years later, in 1905, Congress appropriated a
further sum of $100,000, and in 1906 a like amount, for the
improvement of the Pass and in each case the provision
was incorporated that the money was to be applied to

HAUPT v. UNITED STATES.
272.

Opinion of the Court.

construction "in accordance with the design and specifications of the Aransas Pass Harbor Company, and in
continuation of the work heretofore donp."
The findings of the Court of Claims are: that in compliance with the provisions of these various acts the work
of improvement was continued and completed in 1906, in
accordance with the plans and specifications, as modified
by appellant; that from 1896 to 1906 the depth And -width
of the channel were variable and shifting, with a ruling
depth of only six feet of water in 1908; and that the evidence does not show to the satisfaction of the court that
the so-called Haupt jetty, which was constructed under
appellant's direction, "did produce, or would have produced, a navigable channel of the necessary or proper
depth and width for navigation purposes."
It is upon the terms in which the three appropriations
were made in 1902, 1905 and 1906, each for the construction or completion of the project "in accordance with the
design and specifications of the Aransas Pass Harbor
Company," that the appellant relies, and from them it is
argued that a contract to pay him for the use of his design
and for the impairment of his patent should be derived.
But we not only have the Court of Claims finding that the
experiment of attempting to procure the desired channel
by appellant's method and under his plans, pursued
through many years and definitely for four years, from
1902 to 1906, at an expense to the Government of $450,000,
resulted in failure, but we have the further action of Congress, next to be described, which clearly shows the correctness of the court's conclusion.
In March, 1906, as we have seen, the work of improvement according to the plans as modified by the appellant
w s completed without securing the required channel. In
the following December, a board, appointed by the War
Department to further consider the Aransas Pass project,
recommended that the spacing which Haupt had left

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.'
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

between'the end of his jetty and St. Joseph's Island, for its
influence on the currents, should be closed and that a
parallel jetty should be built to the south of the Haupt
jetty, thus making the project one of two jetties, instead of
the single 'jetty of appellant's plan.
In 1907 Congress appropriated $200,000, and authorized
contracts for the additional amount of $290,000 for improving the Pass "in, accordance with the plans submitted
in . its . report of December twenty-second, nineteen
hundred and six, by the Board of Engineers created by
authority of [the] Act of June thirteenth, nineteen hundred.
and two." It will be seen that all reference to appellant's
method. of solving the problem disappeared from this
act, which adopted the new plan of solution.
Contracts were made under this appropriation of 1907
and a second jetty, generally parallel to the Haupt jetty,
was commenced in March,' 1908, and completed in 1911.
The Court of Claims finds; that, beginning with 1912,
coastwise and seagoing vessels have been going through
the Pass and that in that year the port of "Aransas Pass"
was given the status of a commercial port on a par with
Galveston by the Railway Commission of Texas; that
f'dredging was necessarily done in the years 1912 and 1915,
inclusive, to maintain a proper navigable depth of chgnxfel
in the pass"; and that this construction as ultimately
completed "did not embody any of the devices of the
phintiff's jappellant's] letters patentNo. 380,569."
Itis, of course, essential to recovery by appellant on a
quantum-meruit, that he should prove a contract express or
implied, on the part of the Government to pay him, that
his pateited method of construction was used, and what
the value of it was. Gibons.v. United State., 8 Wall. 269;
Ball Engineeing.Co. v. White. & Co., 250 U. S. 46. The
tree actsrequiing the money appropriated to be used in
accordance with the ,design and specifications of the
Aransas Pass.Harbor Company, which were prepared by

HAUPT
272.

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

appellant, implied clearly that Congress intended to give
the experimental construction of appellant a fair trial and
common honesty would infer a disposition, but not acontract, to pay for the use of the patented form of construction, if it should be found to be valuable. But,
saying as much as it did, the failure of Congress to
say more imports a determination on its part to hold
within its discretion the decision as to the usefulness
of appellant's ideas and as to what, if anything, should
be paid for them. The absence. of any reference to appellant or to his patent and of any words implying a
contract to pay him, from-the three acts of Congress in.
which reference is so distinctly made to the specifications
embodying his ideas, is unmistakable evidence that
Congress deliberately dealt with appellan-ts theories as
still in the experimental stage, and that it was willing to
use the public money to give them a trial in practice, but
that payment for them was reserved for consideration until
their usefulness should be established,--and this, the'finding by the Court of Claims shows, was never done.
For these reasons, to the sufficient finding that the
construction which produced the desired channel did not
embody any of the devices of the appellant's paten~t, we
must add that the record fails wholly to show anything
from which a promise by the Government'to pay for the
use of such devices can reasonably be implied, and therefore the judgment of the Court of Claims must be affirmed.
Being of opinion that our conclusion would not be
affected by any findings to be made on the points asked for
in the appellant's motion to remand for additional findings
of fact, that motion is denied.
Affind.

