UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
71.

73

Syllabus.

in favor of the right which it was intended to secure."
"The object was to insure that a. person should not be
compelled, when acting as a witness in any investigation,
to give testimony which right tend to show that he
himself had committed a crime." Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 562.
The protection of the Constitution was not removed, by
the provision in § 7 of the Bankruptcy Act,-"No testimony given by him shall be offered in evidence against him
in any criminal proceeding." "It could not and would not
prevent the use of his testimony to search out other testimony to be used in evidence against him or his property."
TCounselman v. Hitchcock, p. 564.
The judgment below must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
MR. JusTICE DAY took no part in the, consideration or
decision of this cause.

UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL SURETY
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 271, 272.

Submitted October 13, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

Revised Statutes, § 3468, which gives a surety, who pays to the United
States the amount due on a bond of an insolvent debtor, the priority
enjoyed by the United States over other creditors under Rev. Stats.,
§ 3466, does not entitle the surety to share equally with the United
States when the estate is insufficient to satisfy the claim of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

United States; and this construction is in harmony with a familiar
rule of subrogation under which a surety liable only for part of a debt
does not become subrogated to remedies available to the creditor
unless he pays the whole debt or it is otherwise satisfied. P. 75.
262 Fed. Rep. 62, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralSpellacy and Mr. Leonard
B. Zeisler, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for
the United States.
Mr. Samuel W. Fordyce and Mr. Thomas W. White for
respondent. Mr. John H. Holliday was also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The National Surety Company executed as surety two
bonds given to secure contracts entered into with the
United States. The contractor defaulted and was later
adjudicated a bankrupt. The loss to the Government was
about $13,000. The Surety Company paid to it on account of this loss $3,150, the full amount of the liability

on the bonds. Thereupon the Government proved its
claim in bankruptcy for the balance, claiming, under
Revised Statutes, § 3466,1 priority therefor over all other
'Sec. 3466. Whenever any person indebted to the United States is
insolvent, or whenever the estate of any deceased debtor, in the hands
of the executors or administrators, is insufficient to pay all the debts
due from the deceased, the debts due to the United States shall be first
satisfied; and the priority hereby established shall extend as well to
cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his
debts, makes a voluntary assignment thereof, or in which the estate
and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor are attached
by process of law, as to cases in which an act of bankruptcy is committed.

UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
73.

75

Opinion of the Oourt.

creditors. The Surety Company proved for the $3,150,
and claimed that under Revised Statutes, § 3468,1 it was
entitled to a share in the distribution of the estate pro rata
on an equality with the Government. The net assets of
the estate were less than the amount of the Government's
claim. The referee sustained the contention of the Surety
Company, and his order was affirmed both by the District
Judge and by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. 262 Fed. Rep. 62. The case comes here on writ of
certiorari, 252 U. S. 577. The single question presented is
whether in the distribution of the bankrupt's estate the
United States has priority over the Surety Company.
Section 3468, applying an established rule of the law of
subrogation, Lidderdale v. Robinson, 12 Wheat. 594, 596,
declares that when a "surety pays to the United States
the money due upon . . .[a] bond, such surety .
shall have the like priority for the recovery . . . of the
moneys . . . as is secured to the United States." Sec-

tion 3466, embodying the common-law rule by which
the sovereign has priority over other creditors of an insolvent, United States v. State Bank of North Carolina,6 Pet.
29, 35, declares that "the debts due to the United States
shall be first satisfied." There is no conflict between the
two sections which are substantially a reenactment and extension of the provisions of § 65 of the Act of March 2,
'Sec. 3468. Whenever the principal in any bond given to the United
States is insolvent, or whenever, such principal being deceased, his
estate and effects which come to the hands of his executor, administrator, or assignee, are insufficient for the payment of his debts, and,
in either of such cases, any surety on the bond, or the executor, administrator, or assignee of such surety pays to the United States the
money due upon such bond, such surety, his executor, administrator,
or assignee, shall have the like priority for the recovery and receipt
of the moneys out of the estate and effects of such insolvent or deceased
principal as is secured to the United States; and may bring and main-

tain a suit upon the bond, in law or equity, in his own name, for the
recovery of all moneys paid thereon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

1799, c. 22, 1 Stat. 627, 676. The priority secured to the
United States by § 3466 is priority over alt 6ther creditors;
that is, private persons and other public bodies. This priority the surety obtains upon discharging its obligation.
But what the surety asks here is not to enjoy like priority
over such other creditors, but equality with the United
States, a creditor whose debt it partly secured. To accord
such equality would abridge the priority expressly conferred upon the Government. While the priority given the
surety by the statute attaches as soon as the obligation
upon the bond is discharged, it cannot ripen into enjoyment unless or until the whole debt due the United States
is satisfied. This result is in harmony with a familiar rule
of the law of subrogation under which a surety liable only
for part of the debt does not become subrogated to collat.
eral or to remedies available to the creditor unless he pays
the whole debt or it is otherwise satisfied.'
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
iSheldon on Subrogation (2nd ed.), § 127; Pomeroy Equity Juris-

prudence (4th ed.) § 2350; 25 R. C. L: 1318; Peoples v. Peoples Bros.,
254 Fed. Rep. 489, 491, 492; United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v.
Union Bank & Trust Co.- 228 Fed. Rep. 448, 455; National Bank of
Commerce v. Rockefeller, 174 Fed. Rep. 22, 28.

