OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

position to another by the workmen thereon without in-

terfering materially with the work being performed,"
and one "in which different supports are employed,"
and "in which the shifting from one set of supports to
another set," might "be accomplished without interfering,
in any degree, with the workmen thereon or their work."
A glance at the diagram which we have given will show
that he accomplished his purpose and the way he accomplished it; a glance at the diagram we have given of
the Henderson device will show that it is a substantial
imitation of Murray's scaffold, the variations being only
mechanical. The chief difficulty we have found in the
case is the plausibility of the arguments of counsel, and
that it secured the assent of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit and other courts and strength from
such assent.
Decree affirmed.

NEW YORK SCAFFOLDING COMPANY v. CHAIN
BELT COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTE CIRCUIT.
No. 23.

Argued October 7, 8, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

Patent No. 959,008, claims 1 and 3, to Elias H. Henderson, for improvements in scaffold-supporting means, exhibits no invention over the
prior art. Pp. 34, et seq. New York Scaffolding Co. v. Liebel-Binney
Construction Co., ante, 24.
The fact that a change in a composite instrumentality was readily
made may be evidence that the change was the result of mere mechanical facility as opposed to invention. P. 36.
Advantages found in a patented device may count in favor of the
patentee though he did not discern them when he secured his patent;
but if the device is only an alteration of an earlier patented devicei

N. Y. SCAFFOLDING CO. v. CHAIN BELT CO.
32.

33

Opinion of the Court.

involving no invention, they redound to the benefit of the earlier
patentee though he also was unawargof them and did not attribute
them to his invention. P. 37.
245 Fed. Rep. 747, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederick P. Fish, with whom Mr. C. P. Goepel,
Mr. R. W. HardiGand Mr. F. C. Somes were on the briefs,
for petitioner.
Mr. Wallace R. Lane and Mr. Robert H. Parkinson for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit by petitioner against Chain Belt Company et al.,
for infringement of a patent considered in No. 22, ante,
24. The bill contains the usual allegations, and prays
for an accounting, for damages, and injunctions, preliminary and final
A copy of the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit in the suit of the Scaffold Company against Egbert Whitney, expressing the judgment of
the court sustaining the validity of the patent and adjudging Whitney to be an infringer of it, is attached to
the bill.
The answer denied invention and set forth a number of
patents as anticipations, among others, a patent to William Murray. Ao dismissal of the suit was prayed.
A trial was had upon the issues thus made, which resulted in an interlocutory decree awarding an injunction,
adjudging infringement, and an accounting.
The injunction decreed is as follows: "That an injunction be issued under the seal of this court, unto the said
Chain Belt Company, and the said Egbert Whitney,

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of t4e Court

254 U. S.

enjoining them, and each of them, their several agents,
officers, employees and all persons in privity with them,
and each of them, from making or selling, or causing to be
made or sold, the machine known as 'Whitney Scaffold
Hoist Machines,' and 'Little Wonder' machines, to be
used in the combinations of claims 1 and 3 of said U. S.
Patent No. 959,008, or from using or causing said machines
to be used in the combinations of said claims, or from infringing upon said claims in any manner Whatsoever."
The Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the District
Court that the Henderson patent exhibited invention,
expressing the view, however, that, while its advance was
slight, it was "not so wholly wanting in invention or
novelty as to justify a finding contraryto the presumptive
vlidity of the grant to him." The court fortified its
views by the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals of
the Eighth Circuit in New York Scaffolding Co. v. Whitney, 224 Fed. Rep. 452, citing, however, to the contrary,
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Third
Circuit, in New York Scaffolding Co. v. Liebel-Binney
Construction Co., 243 Fed. Rep. 577, the decision we have
just affirmed. Ante, 24.
The court, however, decided that the decree was "erroneous in finding infringement in the manufacture or
sale or in any use of the Little Wonder machine." The
decree of the District Court was reversed with directions to enter a decree in accordance with the views expressed.
The Henderson patent was made the basis of recovery
in New York Scaffolding Co. v. Liebel-Binney Construction
Co., No. 22, just decided, and there we estimated its inventive quality as tested by the prior art, and as representative of that we took the patent of William Murray, accepting it as an advance upon the prior art.
We need only add to what was there said that our conclusion is confirmed by Henderson's testimony, which

N. Y. SCAFFOLDING CO. v. CHAIN BELT CO.

35

Opinion of the Court.

32.

we insert in the margin somewhat fully, as it cannot be
adequately represented in condensation or by paraphrase.'
'After stating the schools and colleges he had attended, and that he
was admitted to the bar in 1910, he testified as follows:
"Q: Will you state when you first acquired any knowledge of the
scaffolding business and how it came about?
A. The first time I had any occasion to consider scaffolding on buildings was about in February, 1910-February, 1909. I was having
dinner with Mr. Merrill, then president of the Noel Construction Company, and I explained to Mr. Merrill a certain gas engine I was designing attempting to get a patent at that time, and Mr. Merrill, whom
I had known while I was at the academy at Annapolis, put up to me a
proposition of scaffolding on the city hall, which the Noel Construction
Company was then building in Chicago, and explained to me the great
expense of building up a scaffold from the ground, and stated that it
was much more convenient and cheaper to scaffold by swinging the
scaffold from an overhead outrigger. He said there was such a scaffold
in use and being put up by a New York concern, but that the rental
chaited by the New York concern was prohibitory of its use on the city
hall, and said with my mechanical training I ought to be able to devise
a means of swingirg a scaffold, and instructed me to go ahead and see
what I could do.
*

.*

*

*

*

*

*

*

A. It was in February, 1909."
He further testified that Mr. Merrill called his attention to devices
that were then in use in Chicago at the Blackstone Hotel, and that
'shortly after he went down to the hotel.
He further testified:
"A. On the north sideof the building there was a scaffold suspended
by overhead outriggers, cables led down to a drum, the cable passed
over a littie pulley wheel on the top cross member of the scaffold down
to a drum, and the drums were in pairs opposite at right angles to the
building., These drums were supported above a U-frame which was
held in place, bolted, with two angle irons, the bolts passed thro'
the U-frame, and then the planking were laid along the scaffold on top
of the angle irons which was bolted to the U-frames and the drums were
operated by means of the ratchet lever, to which the men put a pipe,
making an extension, and pumped it up and down.
Q. Just how were the putlogs supported relativ4 to the U-frane contcerning which you have testified?

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

From his testimony, it is certain that his scaffqld did not
cause him sleepless nights or laborious days. He was not

experienced in the art of which it is an example. It may be
that the conceptions of invention cannot be tested by such
experience or by moments of time, and that originality
A. The putlogs were bolted alongside of the U-frame and the bolts
passed through the U-frame.
Q. Did you see the machines operate?
A. Yes, the men were laying brick along the scaffold, a couple of,
laborers hoisted one end of the scaffold.
Q. So you saw it raised during the time you were there?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. At that time had you done any work on what later developed into
your patent in suit?
A. I had not."
And further:
"A. I didn't do anything further until about the middle of May.- Mr.
Merrill called me up and asked to come down to the office. I went
down and he asked me if I had a scaffold ready for him, or had any ideas.
I told him no, that I had not. He said, 'I have been depending upon
you to design something, and I have got to have something.' So he
called in Mr. Peterson, the superintendent, took me over to the city
hall and showed me the wall he wanted to scaffold in the court there,
and I then went over to Carpenter & Company and inspected some
winches he had there to see if it was practicable to bolt the winches
to wooden putlogs. And owing to the fact that Carpenter & Company
wanted more money than Merrill could pay, for scaffold, didn't make
a deal with him. Then I went home and made up the design for the
scaffold that I subsequently applied for a patent on, and took it down to
Brown & Williams' attorneys, and asked them if I could get a patent on
it. They thought I could. Mr. Merrill said he would have Parker &
Carter investigate if there would be no infringement on the winch and
instead of bolting the windlass to the putlog, I found I could utilize
pieces of 2x10 around the building for putlogs and place them in the
U-frame, and would make the scaffold easier to put into the building
and much simpler to dismantle-take off.
Q. Where did you get your knowledge of the U-frames being used in
this line of work?
A. I saw U-frames on the Blackstone Hotel. It is just an ordinary
stirrup."

N. Y. SCAFFOLDING CO. v. CHAIN BELT CO. 37
32.

Opinion of the Court.

does not need the aid or delay of drudgery; but one is
forced to think that where a change is readily made in any
composite instrumentality the change is not the prompting
or product of inyention. Indeed, it is a common experience
in patent cases that mere mechanical facility can alter or
change the form in which originality and merit expressed
themselves and assbrt for it the claim of invention. This
case is an example of such pretension. We may repeat
counsels' question and ask, What did Henderson do that
Murray did not do? He made the U-frame which supported the hoisting device of continuous metal instead,
as Murray did, of several pieces riveted together, and in
the stirrup which it formed he rested the putlogs or beams
loosely making a hinged joint connection between the
stirrup and the hoisting machines with a resulting flexibility. This consequence and its advantage, if it have
such,1 it is admitted, he did not discern, and naturally.
His purpose was evasion. To evasion he was prompted.
Beyond what was necessary to that, he exerted no vision
or conception. He had had no experience in the art, and
what knowledge of the Murray scaffolding he had was
obtained by a thirty minutes' observation of it in operation. We yield to the assertion of counsel that he cannot
be deprived of an advantage because he did not discern
it, but the same concession must be given to Murray.
He was entitled to-all of the benefit that he claimed for his
device, or that can be given to it by formal changes.
It will be observed that the Circuit Court of Appeals
and the District Court disagreed in their views of the reI There is a denial of advantage, and it was admitted at the argument
that rigidity of the putlog and frame was sometimes resorted to. Counsel tried to minimize the necessity or practice by saying that it was
accomplished by a ten-penny nail. Manifestly it was the effect and
its necessity or advantage which were important, not the means of
their accomplishment, and the necessity or advantage cannot be estimated by the size of the nail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Statement of the Case.

254 U. S.

lation of the Little Wonder machine to the Henderson
device, the latter considering it an infringement, the former determining otherwise, and to that extent reversing
the decree of the District Court. - Both courts, however,
concurred in ascribing invention to the Henderson device.
In this both courts erred, and the decree of the District
Court is therefore reversed and the case remanded to that
court with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint on
the ground that the Henderson patent is invalid, it exhibiting no invention.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. BUTT, ALIAS WONG SING.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 275.

Submitted October 18, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

An indictment for unlawfully bringing Chinese aliens into the United
States will lie under ยง 8 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,
where the acts charged do not go far enough to amount to a landing
in violation of ยง 11 of the Chinese Exclusion Act of July 5, 1884. P.
41.
Reversed.
WRIT of error under the Criminal Appeals Act (c. 2564,
34 Stat. 1246), to review a judgment sustaining a motion
to quash an indictment charging defendant with bringing
certain*Chinese aliens into the United States, viz. , into
the bay and port of San Francisco by vessel, in violation
of ยง 8 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29,
39 Stat. 880, which reads as follows: "That any person,
including the master, agent, owner, or consignee of any
vessel, who shall bring into or land in the United States,

