THORNTON v. DUFFY.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

THORNTON ET AL. v. DUFFY ET AL., MEMBERS
OF AND COMPOSING THE INDUSTRIAL COM-

MISSION OF OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 'THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 76.

Argued November 8, 1920.-Decided December 20, 1920.

1. The construction placed on the constitution and laws of a State by
its highest court must be accepted by this court in determining fteir
consistency with the Federal Constitution. P. 368.
2. The right of a State to enforce a legitimate public policy includes the
right to change and improve its regulations for that purpose, even to
'the making of changes which conflict with the arrangements and
contracts made by individuals in reliance on previous regulations.
P. 369..
3.. The State of Ohio, in carrying out its policy of workmen's compensation (see Jeffrey Manufacturing Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571), first
allowed employers, in certain cases, the privilege of paying directly
to their workmen or their dependents the compensation provided by
law, instead of contributing to the state fund established to insure
such payments; but afterwards, acting under power reserved over the
subject, it took sway this privilege from employers who indemnified
themselves by insurance. Held, that the change did not impair the
constitutional rights of property or of contract of an employer who
had elected to' take the privilege of direct payment and had insured
himself with an insurance company before the change 'was made.
P. 366..
99 Oh. St. 120, affirme.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Judson Harmon and Mr. A. I Vorys for plaintiffs
in error:
The legislature has the power to compel all employers
to contribute to the state workmen's compensation fund,
or it may provide the conditions upon which employers
may pay into the state fund, and the conditions upon

OC"OBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

254 U. S.

which they may pay compensation directly to employees,
but the desire, of an employer, who elects to pay compensation directly, to indemnify himself cannot be made
the sole basis of a legislative classification of employers,
distinguishing them as ineligible to pay compensation
directly. Such basis of classification is not related to the.
purpose of the constitutional amendment and the workmen's compensation law. Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S.
590; State v. U. S. F. & G. Co., 96 Oh. St. 250; Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
Chicago, Burlington& Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire,- 219
U. S. 549; Chicago v. Netcher, 183 Illinois, 104; Traux v.
Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Ives v. South Buffalo Ry. Co., 201
N. Y. 271; Chenoweth v. State Board, 57 Colorado, 74;
Byers v. Meridian PrintingCo., 84 Oh. St. 4081 Dunahoo
v.'Huber, 185 Iowa, 753.
The legislature has no power to prohibit employers
from insuring or indemnifying themselves against their
liability to employees. Insurance is not inimical to public
policy. Phwnix Insurance Co. v. Erie & Western Transportation Co., 117 U. S. 312; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165
U. S. 578. Liability insurance is not inimical to public
policy. American Casualty Company's Case, 82 Maryland,
535; Kansas City &c. R. R. Co. v. Southern News Co.,
151 Missouri, 373; Breeden v. Frankford Insurance Co.,
220 Missouri, 327; Stone v. Old Colony St. Ry. (Jo., 212
Massachusetts, 459; Rumford Falls Co. v. Casualty Co.,
92 Maine, 574; Hoadley v. Purifoy, 107 Alabama, 276.
Contracts indemnifying employers are not inimical to
public welfare and the legislature cannot prohibit such
contracts. Adams v. Tanner,supra;Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
supra; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; Yee Gee v.
San Francisco, 235 Fed. Rep.' 757; German Alliance
Insurance Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389; Chenoweth v.
State Board, supra; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 347.
Assuming, for the purpose of this branch of the argu-

THORNTON v. DUFFY.
381.

Opinion of the Court.

ment only, that the state fund "insures" the compensation due to employees from employers, and, that the law
may give the state fund a monopoly of such insurance
and deny the right to issue such insurance to all others,'
still the State cannot abrogate existing insurance, valid
when it was issued, Bedford v. Eastern Building-& Loan
Association, 181 U. S. 227; American Building & Loan
Association v. Rainbolt, 48 Nebraska, 434; McNamara v.
Keene, 98 N. Y. S. 860; Industrial Building & Loan Association v. Meyers Co., 12 Arizona, 48; nor can it take away
the right of the employer to procure other insurance by
making contracts of insurance in other States, or by any
other means over which the State has no control. Stone
v. Old Colony St. Ry. Co., supra; New York Life Insurance
Co. v. Dodge, 246 U. S. 357; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,supra.
Neither § 1465-69 nor § 1465-101, as amended in 1917,
was intended to apply, and they ,donot apply to contracts
theretofore made by employers. -Sturges v. Carter, 114
U. S. 511; Bernier v. Becker, 37 Oh. St. 72; Kelley v.
Kelso, 5 Oh. St. 198; State v. Creamer, 85Oh. St. 349;
Hathaway v. Mutual Life Insurance Co., 99 Fed. Rep. 534;
Burridge v. New York Life Insurance Co., 211 Missouri,
158; Black's Constitutional Law, 3d ed., § 296; Lewis'
Sutherland Statutory Construction, 2d ed., § 642.
The plan of workmen's compensation, as operated by
the State Industrial Commission under the law of Ohio,
is not insurance.
Mr. Timothy S. Hogan and Mr. B. W. Gearheart, with
whom Mr. John G.Price, Attorney General of the State of
Ohio, was on the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought by the plaintiff in error, Thornton,
against defendants in error, hereinafter called defendants,

'OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S,

composing the Industrial Cpmmission of Ohio. The Cleveland Stamping and Tool Company filed an answer and
cross petition. From a judgment sustaining demurrers
to the petition of Thornton, and to the answer and, cross
petition of the Cleveland Stamping and Tool Company,
there was an appeal to the Court of Appeals and thence
by proceeding in error to the Supreme Court of the State,
by which court the judgment was affirmed. This writ
of error is prosecuted by Thornton and the Cleveland
Company.
Thornton's petition and the pleadings of the Cleveland
Company are substantially the same. We use for convenience, Thornton's petition and state its allegations narratively as follows: He is a manufacturer at Cleveland,
Ohio, employing more than forty men. The Industrial
Commission determined, as required by the Act of the
General Assembly of the State, passed February 26, 1913,
and comprised in §§ 1465-41 A to 1465-106, General Code
of Ohio, that he was of sufficient financial ability to render
certain the payment of compensation to injured employees, the benefits provided by that act. He, on the - day of
January, 1914, elected to accept the act and proceed under
it, has since complied with its provisions, has abided by
the rules of the Commission and all that is required of
him by the act.
January, 1914, he made a written contract with the
.Etna Life Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut,
a duly licensed company, wherein that company agreed to
pay to his injured employees the compensations required
by the act of-the assembly for injuries or upon death, and
agreed to indemnify him against the liabilities and requirements of the act.
December 1, 1917, the Commission adopted a res6lution
which recited the Act of the Assembly of the State of
February 16, 1917, amending § 1465-101, General Code
of Ohio, and an Act of the General Assembly passed

THORNTON' v. DUFFY.
361.

Opinion of the Court.

March 20, 1917, amending § 1465-69, General Code of
the State, and an Act passed March 21, 1917, and resolved
and declared that no employers should be permitted to
pay or furnish directly to injured employees, or the dependents of killed employees, the compensation and
benefits provided for in §§ 1465-41 A to 1465-106, General
Code of Ohio, if such employers by contract or otherwise,
shall provide for the insurance of the payment by-them of
such compensation and benefits, or shall indemnify themselves against loss sustained by the direct payment thereof.
The Commission revoked its previous findings and authorizations, the revocation to stand as of January: 10,
1918, and directed notices of the revovation and the resolution of the Commission to.be given to all employers, including Thornton, and these notices will be sent unless
restrained.
The resolution of the Commission, the revocation of its
previous action, and the notices which it threatens to send,
are based upon the sole ground that it is its duty so to do
under the laws of the State indicated above.
. The contract of Thornton with the Atna Company is a
valid, subsisting contract and he has a right to continue it
until it be cancelled, and that the sending of the notices as
above stated, and the revocation of the findings of fact that
the Commission had made and its refusal to certify to
Thornton its findings of fact, as provided for in § 1465--09,
will cause him irreparable injury and damage, for which he
has no adequate remedy at law. Further, that there are
more than 675 employers situated as Thornton is and that,
therefore, the questions involved are of common and
general interest, and as it is impractical to bring them all
into court, he sues for the benefit of all.
The laws invoked by the Commission do not justify its
action, and if it be determined that they do, then they,
and the acts of the Commission under them, are in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitdtion

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

of the United States, and of Article I, § 10 of that Constitution, and also of the constitution of the State of Ohio.
An injunction, temporary and permanent, against the
action of the Commission was prayed, and a temporary
restraining order granted, but it was subsequently dissolved, and as we have said, a demurrer was sustained to
the petition and judgment entered dismissing the suit. It,
as we have also said, was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State.
The various acts of legislation of the State were sustained by the courts of the State and hence their validity
under the constitution of the State is removed from the
controversy, and our.inquiry is confined to the effect upon
them of the Constitution of the United States.
In support of the contention that the Constitution of the
United States makes the legislation and the action under it
illegal, it is said that insurance against loss is the right of
everybody, and specifically it is the right of employers to
indemnify themselves against their liability to employees,
and that the right is so fixed and inherent as to be an attribute of liberty removed from the interference of the State.
The provisions of the legislation are necessary elements
in the consideration of the contention. (1) The constitution of Ohio authorizes Workmen's Compensation Laws.
Explicitly it provides for the passage of laws establishing
a State Fund to be created by compulsory contributions
thereto by employers, the fund to be administered by the
State. The constitutionality. of a law passed under that
authorization was sustained by this court in Jeffrey
Manufacturing Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, against the
charge that its classifications were arbitrary and unreasonable. And Workmen's Compensation Laws of other
States have been declared inoffensive to the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188;
Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219. (2)

THORNTON v. DUFFY.
361.

-

Opinion of the Court.

The law that was passed provided that every employer
(there were exceptions not necessary to mention) in the
month of January, 1914, and semi-annually thereafter,
should pay into the State Insurance Fund the amount of
premium determined and fixed by the State Liability
Board of Awards for the particular employment or occupation of the employer. It was, however, also provided
(we quote from the opinion of the Supreme Court) "that
qertain employers under certain conditions might elect to
pay individually, or from a benefit fund, department or
association, compensation to workmen and their dependents for death or injuries received in the course of employment." This was an alternative granted, and its
conditions were fulfilled, it was contended, and that upon
the faith of the fulfillment of it and in indemnity against
contingencies, plaintiff entered into a contract of insurance
with the ,Etna Company. It was further contended that
the alternative and the insurance against its requirements
became property, and inviolable; became contracts with
immunity from impairment. To the contention the Supreme Court replied that the alternative to contribution.
to the State Fund of dealing with the employees directly
was a privilege that need not have been granted and that,
therefore, to effect the purpose of the constitution and
,law, could be withdrawn, that the right to withdraw the
privilege depended not merely upon the police power of
the State "but rather directly upon the constitutional
grant of power"; and that, besides, the right was reserved
in that provision of § 22 of the original act which gave to
the Commission power to "'at any time change or modify
its findings of fact . . . if in its judgment such action
is necessary or desirable to secure or assure a strict compliance with all of the provisions of the law.
And it was said that the experience of four years demonstrated the necessity or desirability of a change and that,
therefore, it was made.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. R

The meaning thus ascribed to § 22 we must accept. It
expressed a continuing condition upon the concession to
employers to deal directly with their employees, and the
Industrial Commission by the power reserved could
terminate the concession at any time.
There was besides, subsequent and empowering legislation in the amendment of March 20, 1917, as the Supreme
Court pointed out. That act specifically limits the privilege of electing between directly dealing with employees
and contribution to the State Fund to those employers
"who do not desire to insure the payment thereof or indemnify themselves against loss sustained by the direct
payment thereof." The court-hence decided that it became the duty of the Commission to change or modify its
findings. And it was also decided that the act was not
only clearly within the power of the State, but was "in
-furtherance of the purpose and intent of the constitution
and the law, to create and maintain one insurance fund, to
be administered by the state.'"
We repeat, we must accept the decision of the court as
the declaration of the legislation and the requirement of
the constitution of the State, as much a part of both as if
expressedin them (Douglass v. County of Pike, 101 U. S.
677), and we are unable to yield to the contention that the
legislation or the requirement transcends the power of the
State,. or in any way violates the Constitution of the
United States. The law expressed the constitutional and
legislative policy of the State to be that the compensation
to workmen for injuries received in their employment was
a matter of public concern, and should not be left to the
individual employer or employee, or be dependent upon or
influenced by the hazards of' controversy or litigation, or
inequality of conditions. There was an attempt at the
accommodation of the new policy to old conditions in the
concession to employers to deal directly with their employees, but there was precaution against failure in the

THORNTON v. DUFFY.
.361.

Opinion of the Court..

provision of § 22 giving discretion to the Commission to
withdraw the concession. After a few years' experience,
that discretion was turned into a duty and by the amendment of March 20, 1917, the concession was taken away
from those employers who indemnified themselves, by
insurance. This was considered necessary to execute the
policy of the State, and we are unable to yield to the contention that property rights or contract rights had accrued
against it. To assert that the first steps of a policy make it
immutable, is to assert that imperfections and errors in
legislation become constitutional rights. This is a narrow
conception of sovereignty. It is, however, not new and we
have heretofore been invoked to pronounce judgment upon
it. Complying, we said, that an exercise of public policy.
.cannot be resisted because of conduct or contracts done or
made upon the faith of former exercises of it upon the
ground that its later exercises deprive of property or
invalidate those contracts. LouisvillUe & Nashville R. R.
Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
We are not disposed to extend the discussion. Indeed,
we think the case is in narrow compass. We are not called
upon to controvert the right to insure against contingent
losses or liabilities, or to minimize the value of insurance to
business activities and enterprises, or discuss the general
power or want of power of the State over it. We are only
called upon to consider its relation to and possible effect
upon the policy of a workmen's compensation law and we
can readily see that it may be, as it is said the experience
of Ohio demonstrated, inimical to that policy to permit the
erection of an interest or a power that may be exerted
against it or its subsidiary provisions. This was the view
of the Supreme Court of the State, and by it the court
justified the power conferred upon and exercised by the
Contnission. See Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington,
8upra.

Judgment affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, concurring.
To compel an employer to insure his employee against
loss from injury sustained in the course of the employment
without reference to the negligence of the employee and at
the same time to prohibit the employer from insuring
himself against the burden thus imposed, it seems to me, if
originally considered, would be a typical illustration of the
taking of property without due process and a violation of
the equal protection of the law.
But in view of the decision in Mountain Timber Co. v.
Washington, 243 U. S. 219, sustaining the constitutionality
of a law of the State of Washington which necessarily
excluded the possibility of the insurance by the employer
of the burden in favor of his employees, which the statute
in that case imposed, I do not think I am at liberty to
consider the subject as an original question, but am constrained to accept and apply the ruling in that case made,
and for that' reason I concur in the judgment now announced.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissents.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. WASHBURN LIGNITE
COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT, SIXTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT,
OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 55.

Argued January 29, 1920.-Decided December 20, 1920.

A -judgment of a state court cannot be reviewed here by writ of error
upon the claim that it gives effect to a local rate statute in violation
of a carrier's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, when it is
apparent, from the state court's opinion, that it did not uphold s4

