OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. DES MOINES UNION RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
DES MOINES UNION RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 66, 67. Argued March 23, 24, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
1. It needs no particular form of words to create a trust, so there be
reasanable certainty as to the property, the objects and the beneficiaries. P. 208.
2. If the subject of a trust be a legal interest in property and capable
of legal transfer, the trust is not perfectly created unless the legal
interest be actually vested in the trustee. But it is not necessary
that; the trust be expressed in the same instrument that transfers
the title; various instruments may be read together in order to ascertain the intention to establish one. Id.
Three railroad companies agreed that they would contribute in stated
proportions to establish a terminal for the common use of themselves
-and of such other railroads as they might admit, that the title
should be in a trustee, that they would share the cost of maintenance
and operation in proportion to their use of the terminal, and that
a depot company might be formed to take permanent control and
issue its mortgage bonds to them for their respective contributions
to the purchase and improvements. Later they caused to be formed
a terminal railroad company with broad corporate powers to which
they conveyed, by absolute. deeds, the property they had acquired
for the terminal. The bonds and stock of the terninl company
were declared to be issued to them "in payment," but recitals and
provisions of its articles, and resolutions attending the transfer,
evinced that the main object was, not to abandon, but, to effectuate
the plan of the original agreement. A subsequent contract between
the four companies fixed terms for management of the property,

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &a. RY
196.

197

Syllabus.

for performance of the terminal service and division of the cost
among the three railroads according to use, permanently allotted
the stock among them, authorized one of them to sell one-half its
allotment to any outside railroad, acceptable to a majority of them,
which might then be admitted as a party to the agreement, but
provided that, with such exception, admission of an outside company to the use of the terminal should require consent of all three.
Held:
3. That the terminal company took the title in trust to maintain and
operate the property and to exercise all its corporate powers for the
common use and benefit of the three railroad companies, their successors and assigns, and such other companies as might be admitted by them to a proprietary participation in the terminal.

Pp. 202-206.
4. That the subsequent contract was a modification only of the original
plan and inconsistent with a purpose to treat the terminal company
as an independent entity subject only to contractual obligations
and remit the proprietary companies to the ordinary rights of stockholders. P. 208.
5. That, as between the proprietaries and others having notice, the
stockholding interest was restrained to the full extent necessary to
give effect to the trust, and the shares, representing the right to
participate in the trust, could not be regarded, while the trust continued, as having an independent exchange value. P. 210.
6. That the fiducuary character of the terminal company extended to
. its officers and directors. P. 211.
7. That, where stock in the terminal company was'sold by one of the,
proprietary companies to fiduciaries, officers and directors of the
terminal company, for value, to enable them to sell it to some company capable of participating in the use of the terminal, the successor of such vendor company was not estopped from denying that
the vendees acquired a substantial and valuable interest in the
terminal company. P. 213.
8. That where a successor of two of the proprietary companies bought
terminal shares from such individuals and afterwards, through its
directors, transferred to one of them and to another officer and
director of the terminal, in settlement of a loan, equivalent shares
of the terminal and enouglh more to make more than a majority of
the terminal stock, still retaining an interest, it was not estopped
to dispute their claim of full ownership, or from asserting its rights
under the trust and seeking relief against any inequitable use of the
shares so transferred. P. 214.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920. '
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

9. That, in the absence of express authorization, agents deputed by
the proprietary companies to vote their stock in the terminal company, including the presidents of two and the vice president of the
other, were without power to amend its articles so as to do away
with the trust or seriously impair the rights of the proprietaries
under it. P. 215.
10. That the absence of any reference to the trust in deeds and mortgages of the property, including the terminal shares, of the proprietary companies, and in contracts made by the terminal company
in discharging its functions, was not persuasive evidence against
the existence of the trust. P. 218.
11. That, where the articles of the terminal company were in form
amended so as to deprive the proprietary companies, as it was
claimed, of their exclusive ownership and control, and in effect to
discharge the trust, and the validity of the amendments was unchallenged for 17 years, and where certain individuals, for value,
acquired from proprietary companies bonds and a majority of the
shares of the terminal company, and held them many years during
which the property increased in value, the successors of the proprietary companies were not estopped, or barred by laches, from asserting the trust against such individuals, it appearing that the latter
were and remained officers and directors of the terminal company,
with constructive and actual knowledgeof the trust, and were not
misled, that the amendments were not authorized or ratified by the
proprietaries, that, although their officers acquiesced in certain internal changes in the terminal company directed by the amendments and in the de facto distribution of its stock, there was no
substantial departure from the trust in the management and possession of the property, and it appearing further that no claim that
the trust had been repudiated was made until shortly before the
suit. Pp. 219-222.
12. That the fiduciaries holding such shares were estopped to avail
themselves of incautious, negligent or mistaken acts of officers of
the proprietary companies in order to obtain an advantage for themselves at the expense of those companies. Pp. 221, 222.
13. That the shares, held by such fiduciaries, represented no value
or interest which they could set up against the proprietaries, and
that the latter, upon repaying what the former had paid for them,
with interest, were entitled to have the shares surrendered and canceled, and manwhile to have any sale, assignment, transfer or
voting of the shares prevented by an injunctinn. P. 223.
14. That, under contracts of the parties, earnings derived from switch-

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

199

Opinion of the Court.

ing and other terminal services and privileges should be credited, as
they accrued, to the proprietaries in proportion to their use of
the terminal, i. e., to wheelage. P. 225.
254 Fed. Rep. 927, reyersed.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert J. Cary and Mr. Burton Hanson,with whom
Mr. John C. Cook, Mr. Windlow S. Pierce, Mr. Lawrence
Greer and Mr. F. C. Nicodemus, Jr., were on the briefs, for
Chicago, Milwaukee &.St. Paul Ry. Co. et al.
Mr. James L. Parrishand Mr. Frederick 'W. Lehmann
forDes Moines UnionRy. Co. et al.
MR. JusTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity brought in the year 1907 in the
Circuit (now District) Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Iowa by the Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Railway Company and the Wabash Railroad
Company against the Des Moines Union Railway Company. By an amended ,bil the individual defendants,
Frederick M. Hubbell, Frederick C. Hubbell, and their
firm of F. M. Hubbell & Son, were brought in; and
afterwards the Wabash Railway Company, having succeeded to the rights of the Wabash Railroad Company,
was substituted as a complainant in its stead. Jurisdiction depended entirely upon diverse citizenship of the
parties.
Complainants own and operate lines of railroad extending to the City of Des Moines, Iowa, and connecting there
with a joint terminal property, legal title to which is held
by the defendant Des Moines Union Railway Company
(hereinafter called for convenience the terminal company),
in which complainants hold a minority of stock, the Wabash Company an eighth, the other complainant a quarter,

.200

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

while the Messrs. Hubbell hold five eighths. Complainants assert that the terminal company holds its property
in trust for their use, and that they are the sole beneficial
owners, having an equitable tenancy in common, and being
entitled to the joint use of the property in perpetuity,
exclusive except as other railroads may be admitted to
participate in such use with their consent. This is the
principal matter in controversy. Intimately connected
with it is the question of the validity as against complainants of the Messrs. Hubbell's claim to ownership of five
eighths of the capital stock. A subordinate issue relates
to the disposition of what are called "surplus earnings,"
acquired by the terminal company from outside parties
during the operation of the terminal under an agreement
made in the year 1889 between the terminal company
and the predecessors of complainants and which expired
in 1918.
Complainants base their principal contention upon a
trust alleged to have been established under,and pursuant
to an agreement made January 2, 1882, between three
companies then engaged in the construction of as many
railroads converging at Des Moines, and through the incorporation of the terminal company in the year 1884 for
the express purpose of acting as trustee for the three companies, and the conveyance to it by them of the terminal
property, followed by the working agreement of 1889;
from all of which it is contended that the terminal company has from the beginning held and still holds all its
property subject to a trust under which the three railroad
companies and their successors and assigns, and such
other railroad companies having lines terminating at
Des Moines as may be admitted with their consent, are
entitled to have the terminal propefty maintained and
operated for their use andbenefit at the actual cost of
the terminal service performed. Complainant Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company is the remote

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

201

Opinion of the Court.

successor of two of the three companies, owning what
may be called the Northern and the Northwestern lines.
Complainant Wabash Railway Company is the remote
successor of the original company that owned the third,
which may be called the St. L6uis line. The bill of complaint prayed for a decree declaring and establishing
the trust; an accounting for all income and profits received by the terminal company for switching or handling
traffic at the terminal for companies other than complainants and their predecessors, and for rntals of real estate
and the like; and specifically and generally for other
appropriate relief. The defenses set up in the answer
and attempted to be supported by the proofs are, briefly,
that by the deeds of conveyance made to the terminal
company it took title not as trustee but absolutely and
for its own sole use and benefit; that, whatever relation
may have arisen from the provisions of the original articles
of incorporation, whether fiduciary or merely contractual,
was substantially modified, and if fiduciary terminated,
by amendments adopted April 8, 1890, alleged to have
been thereafter recognized by complainants and their
predecessors as valid and so treated by defendants and all
others concerned; that complainants by their conduct
and that of their predecessors are estopped from setting
up the equitable title alleged, and have been guilty of
laches barring relief in equity; hence that they are not
entitled to assert any right or interest in the terminal
property except such as arises from their ownership of a
portion of the stock of the terminal company and from
the provisions of the agreement 6f 1889; and that by the
proper construction of that agreement the so-called surplus earnings are the property of the terminal company
and not of complainants.
Upon final hearing the District Court made a decree
from which both sides appealed.,to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, where it was held (one judge dissenting) that

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the terminal company had complete and absolute, title
to the terminal property; that complainants, except as
holders of its stock or bonds, had no interest in it, nor
voice in the control or management; that by the true
construction of the 1889 agreement complainants were
entitled to the surplus earnings until May 1, 1918, and
that thereafter the rights of the parties respecting the
use of the terminal were only such as sprang from their
nature as carriers and their physical and business relations
to each other and to the terminal; by reason of which
the terminal company must furnish them with reasonable
terminal facilities at reasonable charges to be agreed upon,
or in default of agreement to be fixed by the proper public
tribunal. 254 Fed. Rep. 927.
Cross-writs of certiorari bring the resulting decree here
for review.
The facts are intricate, and the evidence so voluminous
that any detailed recital of it would be unduly tedious.
It is sufficiently referred to in the prevailing and dissenting opinions delivered in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and we will content ourselves with touching upon the
salient points. , The case involves no abstruse legal or
equitable doctrine; the application of familiar principles
to the facts as they are developed will direct us to the
proper outcome.,
The agreement of January 2, 1882, was made between
the three railroad companies -and two individuals in whose
names certain titles had been taken for the benefit of the
companies. Its principal provisions were that terminal
facilities in Des Moines should be purchased, constructed,
and maintained at the joint expense of the three companies
and held and used in common; that the expense of acquisition should be borne one-half by the St. Louis Company, one-quarter by each of the others; "that a depot
company may be organized and may take permanent.:
chargu -of the property upon the terms herein set forth, and

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

203

Opinion of the Court.

that said company may issue and deliver to the companies,
parties hereto, its mortgage bonds to the amount of their
respective portions of the cost of the said purchases and
improvements. . . . The title to said property shall
be and remain'in a trustee to be named by agreement of
said companies, but subject to the joint use and occupation of all of said railway companies upon the terms
herein described." The St. Louis Company was to be
charged with police control, supervision, and maintenance
of the terminal, and the expense thereof (including taxes)
apportioned between it and the other companies according to the use they should respectively make as evidenced
by the wheelage; spur tracks were to be built connecting
the terminal with factories and other sources of trade in
and about the city, but if either of the companies should
deem the construction of any such track not advantageous
the question of constructing it and which of the three
companies should pay for it was to be determined by
arbitration; any railroad company having a line not extending to Des Moines but having effected an arrangement for running its trains into the city over the line of
either of the three companies was to be entitled to the use
of the terminal facilities upon paying a fair sum for rental.
and a proportion of the maintenance account, the rental
to inure to the three companies in the same proportion
as the original outlay, and the sum due for maintenance
to be determined in the same manner as in the case of the
three companies; railroad companies having lines extending into Des Moines might be admitted to the use of the
terminal by agreement of all three companies; differences
arising under the agreement were to be referred to arbitration.
The terminal company was organized by representatives
of the three companies under articles of incorporation
dated December 10, 1884, which recited the 1882 contract
in full;. with special emphasis upon the provision that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

depot company might be organized to take permanent
charge of the property, and declared that the new company was organized for this purpose as well as others that
were expressed. The articles contained apt provisions to
comply with the laws of the State of Iowa so as to enable it
to construct, own, and operate a railway in, around, and
about the city, with depots and everything else useful and
convenient for the operation of railways at the terminal
point, and with all the powers conferred upon corporations
for pecuniary profit. Its corporate existence was to
continue for fifty years, with the right of renewal. It was
expressly declared: "All the powers exercised by this
company shall be in accordance with the terms and spirit
of the aforesaid contract entered into on the 2nd day of
January, A. D. 1882." There was a provision that the
written assent of the three companies should be necessary
before the terminal company should lease or otherwise
dispose of the use of any part of its franchises to any other
railroad company. The capital stockwas to be $1,000,000,
dividedinto shares of $100 each, and paid in as the board
of directors might determine, with authority to the board
to receive in payment the property and franchises in Des
Moines held by the three companies and their trustees.
Four members of the board of directors were to be nominated by the St. Louis Company, two members by each of
the otherproprietary companies, and no stockholder to be
digible for membership in the board unless so nominated;
this provision to apply to andbe enjoyed by any grantee
or assignee of either of the three companies. No contract,
lease, or other agreement amounting to a permanent
charge upon the property of the corporation to be entered
into unless first approved by the three companies or their
assigns and by more than three-fourths of all the stock-,
holders.
January 1, 1885, each of the three companies held a
stockholders' meeting, at which formal resolutions were

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

205

Opinion of the Court.

adopted reciting the contract of January 2, 1882, and the
organization of the terminal company as contemplated .in
that contract and in order to carry out its purpose; each
company thereby accepting and -ratifying, so far as its
interests were affected, the articles of incorporation of the
terminal company as in substantial accord and compliance
with theterms and conditions of the contract, and authorizing its officers to transfer. to the new company all it&
right, title, and interest in the terminal property in exchange for a proper share of the bonds and stock of the
terminal company.
On the same day the board of directors of the terminal
company adopted resolutions accepting the transfer,
management, and operation of the terminal property,
appointing a committee to confer with.the three railroad
companies with respect to the terms and price at which
the terminal property and franchises should be conveyed
to it, and to procure from them "such conveyance and
transfer as may be necessary to fully invest this company
with the title, control and management of said properties
as provided for in said contract of January 2nd, 1882"; and
authorizing the issue of all its capital stock and not exceeding $500,000 of bonds to be secured by mortgage of
the properties so to be conveyed; the bonds and stock to
be used in paying for the property, maintaining, operating,
and improving it, and purchasing other property necessary
to carry out the objects of the company.
, Due apparently to the financial embarrassment of the
original Wabash Company, which dominated thb St.
Louis and the Northwestern, terminal matters remained
in abeyance until November, 1887, when deeds were
authorized, which, between that time and the following
April, were made by the companies and the individual
trustees with the effect of vesting in the terminal company
complete legal title to .the properties that had been acquired for the purpose of establishing the terminal. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

deeds were absolute in form. The terminal company by
amendment of its articles increased its capital- stock from
$1,000,000 to $2,000,000, and authorized the making of a
mortgage, which*afterwards was given as of date November 1, 1887, to the Central Trust Company of New York
as trustee, to secure an- issue of $800,000 of 5 per cent.
bonds for the purpose of. paying for its property and completing improvements thereon; the mortgage covering all
its real estate, rolling-stock, etc., then owned or thereafter
to be acquired.
Until May 1, 1888, the terminal property continued tb
be operated by the St. Louis Company under the original
agreement; on that date the terminal. company took possessioni, and ever since then has continued to operate it
and render' terminal service thereon to the three .railroad
companies and their successors, as well as to other companies admitted from time to time under special agreements.
Upon a review of all the evidence, construing the writings in the light of the circumstances and the manifest
purpose and intent of the parties, we are clear that the
effect of the transactions thus far recounted was to establish a trust in the full and proper sense of the word, the
terminal company being invested as trustee with complete
legal title, but without beneficial ownership, and subject
to a duty to maintain and operate the property and exercise all its corporate powers for the common use and
benefit of the three railroad companies, -their successors
and assigns, and such other companies as might be admitted by them to a proprietary participation in the
terminal.
The gist of defendants' argument to the contrary is that
the incorporation of the terminal company and the conVeyance of the property to it by deeds absolute in form
manifested a substantial change of plan from that embodied in the contract of January 2, 1882; stress being laid

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

207

Opinion of the Court.

upon the fact that the powers of a terminal railway company as acquired under the articles of incorporation were
much more extensive than those of a depot company, and
it being contended that the provisions of the articles
respecting the control of the terminal company and the
resolutions providing for the transfer of the property to it,
the form of the deeds themselves, and the issuance of stock
and bonds to the proprietary companies in payment,
demonstrated a purpose to invest the terminal company
with title for all purposes. But the main object of establishing a joint terminal at the common expense and for the
common use of the three companies and to retain their
proprietary interest in it while confiding its maintenance
and operation to their trustee is so manifest that all the
proceedings are properly to be construed as designed to
give effect to it, and seeming inconsistencies and ambiguities resolved accordingly. The provision of the articles
that "all the powers exercised by this company shall be
in accordance with the terms and spirit of the aforesaid
contract" is not merely contractual, but amounts to a
declaration of trust and together with the other evidence
shows clearly that the powers were procured from the
State expressly to enable the company the better to fulfill
the purposes of its existence as such trustee, and not to
set it up in business on its own account. The substitution
of the terminal company with more elaborate powers in
place of the depot company contemplated at the beginning
shows a development and modification of the original
plan, but no departure or substantial change. The particular stipulations contained in the articles respecting the
control of the terminal company were intended not as a
substitute for but as safeguards of the trust. The absolute
form of the conveyances, and the issuance of stock and
bfnds "in payment," were intended to give credit to the
compahy in its dealings with outside parties and to render
its bonds more readily salable; but they constituted the

208

SOCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

mere mechanism for carrying into effect the main purpose
of the parties, and as between them were Controlled by
that purpose and bythe articles and resolutions that manimfested an express declaration of the trust. All the circumstances, and what we have quoted from the resolution of
the terminal company directors, show that the title was
conveyed for the purpose of enabling that company to
control and manage the terminal in furtherance of the
objects of the 1882 agreement.
It needs no particular form of words to create a trust, so
there
certainty as to the property, the objects, be
andreasonable
the beneficiaries. Colton v. Colton, 127 U.
S.
300, 310. But if, as here, the subject of the trust be a legal
interest in property and capable of legal transfer, the
trust is not perfectly created unless the legal interest be
*actually vested in the trustee. Adams v. Adams, 21 Wall.
185; 192, 194. Hence the necessity in this case of deeds
-conveying the fee to the terminal company. But it is not
necessary that the trust be expressed in the same instrument that transfers the title. Various instruments may be
read together in order to ascertain the intention to establish one. Loring v. Palmer, 118 U. S. 321, 340.
The agreement of May 10, 1889, between the terminal
company of the first part and the three proprietary companies of the second'part fixed the terms upon which the
property should be managed and the terminal service
performed for a period of thirty years to date from May 1,
1888. It constituted a working arrangement for that
period, but did not in terms or by implication set aside the
trust or place a time limit upon it. It provided that for
the terminal service the proprietary companies should
make payments, in proportion to the wheelage of each, to
cover interest upon the mortgage bonds, the cost of maintenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance, and the cost of
operating the terminal, including all expenses (except the
operation of engine-houses, care of engines, and repairs

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

209

Opinion of the Court.

thereto, which were separately dealt with), after deducting
any amounts which other railway companies might be
obliged to pay for the use of the property. Engine-house
expenses were to be apportioned according to the number
of engines of each company, engine repairs to be charged
to the company for which the work was done. The agreement contained other provisions of permanent effect,
providing for the allotment of the stock of the terminal
company to the proprietary companies and declaring the
terms upon which outside companies might be admitted
to ownership of the stock or the use of the property. It
recited that the proprietary companies were entitled to the
stock in the proportion of one-half to the St. Louis Company, one-fourth to each of the others, and provided for
the issuance of certificates accordingly, and that these
should express upon their faces that they were not transferable without the consent'in writing of all the proprietary
companies, except as to shares issued to qualify directors.
And there was a provision that the St. Louis Company
might sell one-half of its stock, or one-quarter of the whole,
to such railroad company as might be acceptable to a
majority of the proprietary companies, in which case the
purchasing company might be admitted as one of the
parties to the agreement upon the same terms and conditions as those stipulated for the other parties of the second
part; and that, except as thus provided, other railroad
companies should not be admitted to the use of the terminal property without the consent of all the parties of the
second part.
Here again we have a further modification of some of the
details of the original plan, but in respects altogether consistent with the continuance of the trust; inconsistent,
indeed, with a purpose to treat the terminal company as an
independent entity subject only to contractual obligations
and remit the proprietary companies to the ordinary rights
of stockholders. Their contributions to the original cost

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

of the property having been secured by mortgage bonds
according to the plan of 1882, provision was now made
for distributing the entire capital stock according to the
original proportions, one-half to the St. Louis, one-quarter
to each of the two other companies,. but with certain
material restrictions upon the ordinary rights of stockholders expressed in the agreement and others necessarily
implied.
Since, from the very nature and terms of the trust, all
the property and franchises of-the terminal company were
to be held for the benefit of the proprietary companies,
and all its corporate powers exercised in the administration
of the joint terminal for their common use, the stockholding interest in the terminal company necessarily must be
modified, as betwebn the parties, to the extent necessary to
give full effect to the trust. In the hands of the proprietors
of the connecting lines the stock was the evidence of their
right to participate in the benefits of the trust, in the control and management of the terminal company, and in
the use of the terminal; but such use, in the nature of
things, must be proportioned, not according to the magnitude of their respective stock holdings, but according to
their respective traffic requirements. And since the terms
of the trust required that these connecting lines should
have the entire beneficial use of the property upon paying
the cost of the terminal service, there was no room for a
profit from the operations of the terminal company out of
which dividends could be.paid. Except in the theoretically
possible but extromely improbable event of an abandonment of the terminal (as to the effect of which no opinion
need be expressed), it is plain that, as between the parties
-to the trust and others having notice of it, the stock could
have little or no exchange value except to a company
owning or operating a railroad line connecting or capable
of coinecting with the terminal. In the hands of others
having notice of the trust, the stock represented no sub-

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

211

Opinion of the Court.

Some recognition of the
stantial property interest.
anomalous status of the stockholding interest is to be
found in the acts of the parties above set forth, especially
in the provisions of the agreement of 1889. The amount of
stock provided for shows that it was deemed probable that
eventually the property would have a value in excess of the
original cost represented by the bond issue, or that value
might be given- to the stock through liquidation of the
bonds or otherwise, and that upon a sale of a participation
in the terminal property and facilities to an outside railroad company, evidenced by a transfer of stock in the
terminal company, some return could be got for such
increased value. The apportioninent of the original issue,
and the stipulations of the 1889 agreement, recognized
that the St. Louis Company, as representative of the
original Wabash Company, was equitably entitled to preference in any profits that might be derived from such a
sale to an outside company. And evidently it was then
anticipated that there would be four proprietary companies, each holding one-fourth of the stock, with equal
representation in the board of directors.
We are not here concerned with any question pertaining
to the rights of the bondholders. It may be assumed that,
if necessary for their protection, the mortgage would be
treated as conveying the entire estate, both legal and
equitable, in the terminal property. No express provision
appears to have been made for paying off the principal
of the bonds. Whether the beneficiaries of the trust, as
between themselves, were or are entitled to have provision
made for discharging the principal by including periodic
amortization charges as a part of the cost of operating
the terminal is a question that we need not consider.
Nor are we at this moment concerned with any question that might arise if stock of the terminal company
had come or should come to the hands of a bona fide purchaser for value without notice. The principal contro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

versy arises from the fact that defendants F. M. Hubbell
and F. C. Hubbell have become the holders of five-eighths
of the capital stock, upon which fact, together with the
alleged effect of the amendments to the articles of incorporation adopted April 8, 1890, defendants rest the insistence that the proprietary companies have lost their
right to control the action of the terminal company, that
the Messrs. Hubbell as stockholders are entitled to control it and to have dividends out of its profits, and that
from and after the expiration of the 1889 agreement, complainants have no right to the use of the terminal except
upon terms to be agreed upon by the terminal company
as controlled by the Messrs. Hubbell.
It is important, therefore, to consider the circumstances
ufider which their stock was acquired and the amendments
adopted.
Obviously the fiduciary character of the terminal company extended to its officers and directors as to all others
concerned in its management, charging them with a duty
to uphold the trust and imposing upon them the usual
disability about reaping a personal advantage at the expense of the beneficiaries. And it is clear and undisputed
that the Messrs. Hubbell acquired their stock with full
notice of all essential facts pertaining to the trust; they
themselves at all times material were officers and directors
of the terminal company and acted in a fiduciary capacity
in everything relating to its affairs. Mr. F. M. Hubbell
was an officer and director of that company at the beginnin-g and continuously thereafter, especially active in its
management; and during a period which included the
important transactions in question-he also was a director
and officer of each of the proprietary companies and their
trusted representative in respect to terminal matters at
Des Moines. Mr. F. C. Hubbell became a director of
the'terminal company in January, 1890, president two
years later, and has been such continuously since.

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
190.

213

Opinion of the Court.

In the year 1886 and thereafter until and during the
year 1890 the property of the Wabash system, including
the stock of the St. Louis Company with control of its
part of the stock of the terminal company, was in the
hands of a purchasing committee as trustees for the
Wabash bondholders. In February- 1990, F. M. Hubbell
obtained from this committee an option, for the purchase
of $135,000 of the terminaf company bonds and a quarter
interest in its capital stock for $135,000, accepted the
option, made over to General Dodge a half interest in it,
and Hubbell and Dodge each received one-half of the
specified bonds and. one-eighth of the outstanding capital
stock, with a guaranty on the part of the purchasing
committee that the St. Louis Company would approve
the transfer (as it efterwards did, through its board of
directors), and that the committee would consent to such
change in the articles of incorporation of the terminal
company as would permit one director to be nominated
by any person or company holding one-eighth of the stock.
At this time General Dodge was president of the terminal
company, and also president and principal stockholder
of the Northern Company; Hubbell, besides his relation
to the terminal company, was president of the Northwestern Company and its controlling stockholder.* In
correspondence between Mr. Hubbell and the purchasing
committee antecedent to this transaction they warned
him that it would be necessary to confine a sale of stock
"to such railway companies as would be interested in the
station"; and he assented to this, acknowledging that
"it would be prejudicial to sell any of this stock to outsiders, and I understand it as you do that the stock cannot
be' sold without the consent of the different railroad companies who now form the terminal company." Later
Hubbell acquired from the purchasing committee $50,000
of the bonds and an additional eighth interest in the
capital stock of the terminal company for $57,736, being

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U5.S.

par and accrued interest for the bonds and 15% of par
for the stock, upon the understanding expressed in writing
that an eighth interest should be "sufficient to represent
a proprietorship in the company, according to the understanding we had when you were here "-evidently meaning
that the eighth retained by the purchasing committee
should carry with it a proprietary interest and influence
in the terminal not limited in proportion to the amount
of the stock.
Defendants insist that because the purchasing committee sold the stock to Hubbell and Dodge for a valuable
consideration, they must be taken to have dealt with it
as having substantial value; and that since, in afterwards
making report to the board of directors of the Wabash
Company, with an account of their financial transactions,
the committee included their receipts from sales of the
stock and bonds of the terminal company, and the directors approved the account, complainant Wabash Railway
Company is estopped from denying that Hubbell and
Dodge acquired a substantial and valuable interest in
the terminal company. We deem it clear, however, that
the intent of the purchasing committee, known and
assented to by Hubbell and Dodge at the time, was merely
to enable the .latter to sell the three-eighths interest to
some'.railroad company capable of participating in the
use of the terminal. Whether consistently with their
fiduciary relations or not, they took advantage of this
opportunity in the following year, when the Northern
and Northwestern companies were consolidated and they
sold to the consolidated company the stock in question,
apparently and presumably at a profit over and above
what they paid the purchasing committee for it. There
is ho foundation for the suggested estoppel.
The title now asserted by the Messrs. Hubbell to fiveeighths of the terminal company stock was derived not
directly from the Wabash purchasing committee, but from

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

215

Opinion of the Court.

the consolidated Northern and Western company. That
company, in addition to the three-eighths transferred to
it by Hubbell and Dodge, had the two quarter-interests originally owned by those companies, making seveneighths in all. In October, 1893, the consolidated' company pledged to F. M. Hubbell & Son five-eighths -of the
terminal company stock (2,500 shares) as security for a
debt. The stock was transferred to the Hubbell firm on the
books at that time, and so remained down to the institution
of this suit, except as to five "qualifying shares" placed in
the names of individuals but controlled by the firm. On
January 29, 1894, the indebtedness was settled between
the directors of the consolidated company and the Messrs.
Hubbell upon terms that included a purchase by the latter
of the 2,500 shares of terminal company stock at ten per
centum of its par value. Passing for the moment certain
special grounds of attack upon the title they thus acquired
to these shares, it is obvious that they took them subject
to all qualifications arising out of the trust that pertained
to the property and franchises of the terminal company.
The ,quarter-interest in the terminal company stock
retained by the consolidated company afterwards passed
from it to the complainant Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
Paul Railway Company, which acquired at the same time
the Northern and Northwestern lines. That company
took with notice of the claim of the Hubbells to a fiveeighths interest; but this does not estop it from disputing
the validity of their claim, nor from setting up, as in this
suit, whatever beneficial participation in the trust respectir., the terminal property may be incident to its ownership
of one-fourth of the stock of the terminal company together with connecting lines of railroad, and asking for
relief against any inequitable use by the Hubbells of the
five-eighths interest claimed by them.
As to the amendments to the articles of incorporation:
These are alleged to have been adopted at a meeting of

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the stockholders of the terminal company held April 8,
1890. Their purport was, briefly, to omit from the articles
the copy of the contract of 1882 recited therein, the declaration that the powers exercised by the 'company should
be in accordance with the terms and spirit of that contract, and the requirement that assent in writing of the
proprietary companies should be necessary before any
disposition of the franchises of the terminal company
should be made; to set aside previous proceedings respecting the amount of capital stock to be issued to the proprietary companies and provide for the distribution of a much
decreased amount ($400,000 par instead of $2,000,000)
but in the same proportions as before, the remaining capital stock ($1,600,000 par) to be issued only by resolution
of the stockholders adopted by vote of more than seveneighths of all the stock theretofore issued; and to eliminate
the former method of selecting directors and provide that
they should be elected by the stockholders, but that it
sLould require the votes of more than seven-eighths of
all the stock to elect a director, and that as to all matters
except the urdinary operation of the property the directors
could act only upon unanimous-vote of the eight members
of the board. One of the articles adopted purported to
repeal, strike out, and expunge the proceedings of a stockholders' meeting held December 10, 1884, at which the
origiftal articles of incorporation were adopted.
It is plain enough, az-d is conceded, that the corporation
could not, by merely altering its own internal organization.
affect the interests of its cestuis que trusterd. It is as evidence of a modification of the agreement between the
stockholders of the terminal company-themselves beneficiaries of the trust-that the amendments are invoked.
So regarding them, the question is, by what authority
and with what intent were they adopted? The stockholders' meeting was attended by six individuals (including the two Hubbells), and two others by proxy, each of

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

217

Opinion of the Court.

whom assumed to represent, and in.a general sense did
represent, one or the other of the three proprietary companies.. F. M. Hubbell himself was president of the Northwestern Company and assumed to represent it. Others
present were.the vice president of the Northern and the
president of the St. Louis companies. 'The evidence fails
to show that those present had express authority to act for
the proprietary companies in amending the articles; and
action of, this kind-materially affecting the property
interests of the three companies in a matter so vital as the
ownership and control of an important terminal-was so
far out of the usual or ordinary course of business that
authority to represent their corporations in assenting to it
was not to be implied as.coming within the general scope of
their duties. Nor did eitther of the proprietary companies,
by any formal corporate action, accept or ratify 'the
amendments.
Moreover, it affirmativety appears, and both courts
below. in effect found, that there was no actual intent on
the part of any of the parties concerned to affect the substantial rights or equities of the proprietary companies, or
to te minate, repudiate, or substantially modify the trust
respecting the terminal property. It does appear that
some of those active in proposing the amendments, and
assuming to actfor the proprietary companies in-assenting
to them (there is a question whether they actually. were
adopted by a proper vote of the stockholders, but we do
not go into 'this), were under the irpression that the
contract of 1882, recited in the articles of incorporation,
already had been abrogated and the trust set aside by the
issuance of the terminal company's bonds and apportion-.
ment of the stock to the proprietary companies in payment
for the property conveyed and by the making of deeds
-absolutein form; that both in respect to the ownership of
the property and the management of it under the contract
of 1889 the .iginal arrangement had been abandoned; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

that it was desirable to amend the articles so as to make
them conform to the situation actually existing.
Clearly, this was a mistaken impression, as will appear
from what we have said. It was a mistake not indeed as to
any mere matter of fact, nor on the other hand as to any
pure question of law, but rather as to the existing legal
rights, interests, and relations of the parties resulting from
antecedent transactions. Whether it was such a mistake
as to furnish ground for a cancellation of the amendments
in equity, is a question into which we need not enter. (See
Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S. 85, 90; Griswold v. Hazard,
141 U. S. 260, 284; Utermehle v. Norment, 197 U. S. 40, 56;
PhilippineSugar Co. v. PhilippineIslands, 247 U. S. 385,
389; Por. Eq. Jur., §§ 841-849.) For the fact that those
who assumed to act for the proprietary companies in
assenting to the amendments were mistaken as to the
existing legal situation, so that the amendments, if given
effect according to their terms, instead of bringing the
articles into conformity with the situation already actually
existing, would materially change the situation to the
disadvantage of the proprietary companies by putting an
end to an important trust contrary to their actual intent
as parties beneficially interested, is a cogent reason for
holding as we do that authority on the part of agents to
a~sent to such amendments is not to be implied where it
was out of the ordinary course of business and express
authority was not conferred.
In support of the contention that the terminal property
was not subject to any trust either before or after the
amendments, defendants cite a series of contracts in which
the terminal company asserted its ownership without
qualification, and of conveyances, mortgages, etc., by the
proprietary companies recognizing the legal title of the
terminal compaiy to its property and asserting in themselves only a title to shares in the terminal company. But
when a trust is once established and acknowledged it does

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. IRY.
196.

219

Opinion of the Court.

not need to be constan'tly reiterated or confesed. None of
the instiuments referred to is in anywise inconsistent with
the trust; the contracts of the termiiil company were
made in the very course of its administration of the trust;
and the mortgages and conveyances of the prQprietary
companies dealt with legal titles. only, their equitable
interests in the terminal passing .without mention as
incidental to their ownership of the stock together with the
connecting lines.
The majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals held that
the control of the proprietary companies was relinquished
by. reason of the amendments and the conduct of the
parties at the time and thereafter, upon this theory: that
although the amendments were neither previously authorized nor afterwards formally accepted or ratified by 'the
three companies, yet since 'their executive officers were
aware of. and approved the action of the meetirig; since
Hubbell was encouraged to purchase-the bonds and stock,
the value of the stock being wholly prospective; since
after the amendments the stock of the terminal company
was issued in accordance therewith and directors elected
by the new method,, the railroads making no attempt to
exercise their right of naming directors in certain proportions as before; since for seventeen years the railroads
acted, as it seemed to the court, in harmony with the
amended articles, not questioning their validity until this
suit was commenced; they could not, after such. delay,
enforce their rights in a court of equity against defendants
who to their knowledge had acted upon the belief that such
rights did not exist, and had acquired and held property
which had largely increased in value in the interval. It
was held that this result had come to 'pass although the
railroads never had intended it; that the sale of a part of
the Wabash stock by the purchasing committee to Hubbell
and Dodge, then influential in the two other roads, would
seem at the time a mere rearrangement of the interests of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the three companies in the terminal company; but that
the effect of the amendments was a severance of the control
of the roads over the terminal company, and subsequent
events confirmed t his, so that when the Hubbells disposed
of their interests in the Northern and Northwestern to the
Milwaukee, retaining for themselves a majority of the
terminal holdings, the result was that the-railroads themselves had gradually let slip that exclusive ownership and
control which at the beginning they had so much valued
and so carefully guarded.
Convinced that the relation of the parties was fiduciary
and not merely contractual, we are unable to accept the
view thus outlined. It would require a clear case to
warrant a court of equity in declaring that the trustees of
an express trust, in the very course of their administration
of the trust, had acquired a dominant interest in the trust
property and in effect a discharge of the trust, through
mere inattention or even negligence-not raising an estoppel or amounting to laches-on the part of the parties
beneficially interested, or of their executive officers.
Conduct merely equivocal, or apparently inconsistent with
a vigilant insistence upon the obligations of the trustee, is
not sufficient to discharge a trust. The cestui que trust is
entitled to rely upon the fidelity of the trustee, until
plainly put on guard against him. And the trustee is
at all times disabled from making a profit for himself out of
any dealings in the trust property without the express
consent of the cestui que trust.
Nothing appears to create an estoppel against complainants. Neither they nor their predecessors have
misled defendants to their disadvantage. The purchasing
committee accepted a money consideration from Hubbell
and Dodge for the transfer of a block of stock. But the
purchasers had more complete and intimate knowledge of
the situation than the committee had, and were specially
put on notice, as the correspondence shows. Indeed, their

tAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

221

Opinion of the Court.

knowledge of the true nature and office of the terminal
company constituted adequate notice. And again, when
the Messrs. Hubbell reacquired the same three-eighths
with an additional one-quarter interest from the consolidated Northern and Western Company, they were as
before chargeable with full notice of all the facts out of
which the equities of complainants arise.
The question of laches presents more difficulty; but after
mature consideration we are convinced that it must be
resolved in favor of complainants. Acquiescence by the
executive officers of the proprietary companies in the
changed situation resulting from the amendments of
April 8, 1890, is stressed by counsel for defendants, as it
was in the majority opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals; it being pointed out that after the amendments
directors were elected in the new mode, and that in an
agreement of ratification dated July 31, 1897, made for the
purpose of giving recognition to the participation of the
Wabash and of the consolidated Northern and Western
Company in the obligations of the 1889 agreement, it was
declared that so much of that agreement as related to the
issuance and distribution of the capital stock of the
terminal company was no longer binding, and the stock
was held in specified proportions, including "F. M. Hubbell & Son 2,500 shares." This was a recognition of their
status as de facto stockholders, but not a concession that
the fiduciary character of the terminal company had been
changed, or that the stock possessed any quality or value
other than was consistent with the nature and terms of the
trust. The parties acted in harmony with the amended
articles so far as the internal organization of the company
was concerned, but the company remained in possession of
the property as before and continued to manage it in
accordance with the terms of the agreement of 1889. Such
possession was as consistent with a continued recognition
of the trust as with the opposite; and it does not seppear

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

that at any time until shortly before the bill was filed
defendants contended that the amendments amounted to
an express repudiation of the trust or that the terminal
company would be free from obligation at the expiration of
the agreement. Prior to this there had been a difference
about the disposition of the "surplus earnings," but this
was no more than a question about the proper construction
of the working agreement.
It seems to us the court below attributed undue weight
to the conduct of the executive officers of the proprietary companies indicating acquiescence in a supposedly
changed situation resulting from the amended articles. It
would not be surprising if occasionally there was a failure
to appreciate fully, and accurately the rights and obligations growing out of the trust. But the Messrs. Hubbell,
because of their fiduciary relation, are estopped from
laying hold of the incautious, negligent or mistaken acts of
the executive officers as a ground on which to build up a
profit or advantage for themselves at the expense of the
proprietary roads which were their cestuis que trustent.
Upon the whole case, it is our conclusion that the trust
with respect to the terminal property continues substantially as it was established at the incorporation of' the
terminal company; that this company holds all its property and franchises-whether conveyed to it at the beginning or acquired since-in trust for the purpose of carrying out, in substance, the terms and spirit of the contract
of January 2, 1882, with such minor changes as have been
agreed upon since, and is bound to exercise all its powers
(including its power to renew the corporate charter) in
furtherance of the trust; that the amendments of April 8,
1890, were unauthorized by the proprietary companies
and had no effect in discharging or modifying the trust;
that complainants are the sole beneficial owners of the
property and franchises of the terminal company, and
they and their successors and assigns, and such other

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

223

Opinion of the Court.

railroad companies owning or operating lines of railroad
extending to or near to Des Moines as may be admitted to
a proprietary interest by consent of complainants and their
successors and assigns, are (as between the present parties
and their successors) entitled to the sole beneficial use of
the terminal property upon paying the cost of the terminal
service, including interest upon the mortgage debt and
other proper charges, after crediting all revenues derived
from other sources, and without profit to the terminal company; and that from and after the expiration of the 1889
agreement complainants were and are entitled to have a similar working arrangement renewed from time to time perpetually: its specific terms to be agreed upon between themselves, or judicially ascertained if they are unable to agree.
Complainants are entitled to a decree establishing the
trust, with all appropriate incidental relief. We do not
attempt to lay down the particular provisions of the decree. These may be settled by the District Court upon
the going down of the mandate.
To consider, next, the status of the Hubbell stock: The
title acquired by them from the consolidated company is
attacked by the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul on the
ground that it was acquired by inequitable means, the
Hubbells being at the time in control of the board of
directors. It is attacked by the Wabash on the ground
that the. consolidated company could not in equity pass
the stock to the Hubbells and thus impair the interest in
the terminal company then held by the St. Louis Company, to which the Wabash has succeeded. We have not
.found it necessary to consider whether these contentions
ought to be sustained as independent grounds of substantive relief, or to what extent they would be affected by the
agreement of July 31, 1897, in which the consolidated and
the Wabash companies apparently gave recognition to the
ownership of the stock by the Hubbells.
We pass this, because convinced that as incidental to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

principal relief granted, and necessary to give full effect to
it, complainants are entitled upon equitable terms to have
the
Hubbell shares (including all "qualifying shares"
controlled
by them) surrendered for cancellation.
Our
reasons, rbriefly, are as follows: The issuance of the stock
to the Messrs. Hubbell, and the clause of the 1897 agreement relating to it, already have been considered with
other evidence cited by defendants to show an assent to or
acquiescence in a modification or abandonment of the
trust, and are found insufficient for the purpose. Hence
this stock, being like all other stock of the terminal company subordinate to the trust that dominates all-its property and franchises, does not represent in the hands of the
Hubbells any property interest that they are entitled to
set up as against the proprietary companies. When they
acquired it, and at all other times material, they themselves were and still are acting in a fiduciary relation-to. the
trust; hence they cannot be heard to assert any right in
the stock that is inconsistent with the trust. Manifestly it
would be inequitable for them to sell it to a bona fide purchaser who might claim (even though unsuccessfully) to
hold it exempt from the trust. They may have "expected to
sell it at a profit to one of the proprietary companies, or
with their consent to an outside company or companies
qualified to participate in the beneficial use of the terminal
property under the trust. But, because of their fiduciary
character, they are debarred in equity from trafficking in
the trust property in this or any other way, without the
express consent of the beneficiaries; they would be bound
to account for any profit that might accrue; and any seeming consent on the part of the beneficiaries to waive such
profit in advance, not amounting to a termination of the
fiduciary relation, is in its nature revocable. The Hubbell
stock, therefore, representing no legitimate proprietary
interest as against complainants, serves merely to evidence
a voting power and to qualify its holders to act as directors

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

225

Opinion of the Court.

and officers of the terminal company: in short, to participate in a fiduciary employment, without profit beyond

compensation for the value of the services rendered. But
complainants, being the sole present beneficiaries of the
trust and equitable owners of the terminal property, are
entitled in equity to a controlling voice in the choice of
directors, and especially to have the management of the
trustee company, now and.hereafter, freed from the domination of a stock interest that represents no property
interest in the concerns of the trust. To guard against
such alien control and. at the same time prevent the
danger of the Hubbell stock getting into the hands of bona
fide holders who might set up rights under it which the
present holders are debarred in equity from asserting-in
short, to avoid undue jeopardy to the trust-complainants
are entitled to have this stock surrendered, retired and
.canceled, and, until surrendered, to an injunction against
any sale, assignment, or transfer of it or any part of it,
and against the exercise of any voting power thereon; but
upon terms that complainants shall repay to the Messrs.
Hubbell the amount they paid to the consolidated Northern and Western Company for it, viz., $25,000, with interest thereon from January 29, 1894. How this should be
apportioned, as between complainants, has not been discussed. It may be settled by the District Court.
The issue as to the surplus earnings relates to a considerable accumulation of moneys received by the terminal
company from sources outside the proprietary companies.
Possibly it may have become a moot question, in view of
the result we have reached upon the main matter; but as
this is not altogether clear we will dispose of the issue as
raised. The agreement of 1889 provided that in making up
the net cost of maintenance and operation chargeable to
the proprietary lines on a wheelage basis, there should be
deducted "the amount if any which other railway companies may be under obligation to pay by virtue of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

tracts for the use of said property or parts thereof." In
the course of time, the terminal company received not only
payments from outside railroad companies under contracts
technically for participation in the use of the terminal
property-which have been credited to complainants and
their predecessors according to their wheelage-but, in
addition, substantial sums from railroad companies and
others for switching and other terminal services and for
rent of portions of the property and privileges thereon.
Receipts of the latter character were called "surplus
earnings." For a period of nearly two years after the
making of the 1889 agreement they were included in the
credits given to the proprietary companies. This was done
at first by thc accounting officers of the terminal company
under the general direction of its president and executive
committee. In February, 1891, the practice was approved
by action of the board of directors. About a year later the
board resolved that until its further action sums received
as rents of real estate and all switching charges should not
be thus credited, but should be used as a cash capital "with
which to purchase supplies and pay current bills which
come in before it receives its monthly revenue from the
tenant companies." Thereafter the surplus revenues were
not again credited to the proprietary companies.
We concur in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
that by the fair construction of the 1889 agreement and
the practical construction placed upon it by the parties at
the beginning-a construction entirely consonant with
the terms of the trust-complainants and their predecessors were entitled to credit for the surplus earnings as they
accrued, each company to a share proportioned to its
wheelage; and that the 1897 contract did not change this.
Itwas decreed that these earnings belonged to complainants, and that there should be an accounting to ascertain
the part due to each upon a wheelage basis. As to this the
only question that occurs to us is whether the accounting

CHICAGO &c. RY. v. DES MOINES &c. RY.
196.

227

Opinion of the Court.

should include sums that have been appropriated out of
these earnings and devoted to capital expenditures for
acquiring additional property and for permanent improvements-sometimes, apparently, with approval of complainants or their predecessors, sometimes without. This
would hardly seem to be of serious consequence in view of
the result we have reached upon the main issue. It is
chiefly of interest to complainants; but they have not
argued the question, declaring indeed that the entire
controversy as to the surplus earnings would be material
only should this court decide that complainants had no
proprietary interest in the terminal company. Defendants
have assigned error to so much of the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals as awards the surplus earnings to complainants, but have not furnished data enabling us to draw
an accurate line -between those that were and those that
were not disbursed for permanent improvements, or between those disbursements that were approved and those
that were not. Unaided by counsel we hardly could be
expected to unravel the somewhat obscure evidence bearing upon these points. We must therefore content ourselves with simply affirming that portion of the decree
which relates to the surplus profits.
The main portion of the decree as attacked by complainants must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
As to costs, the decrees of the courts below apportioned
them one-half to complainants and one-half to the terminal
company. We leave this disposition undisturbed. The
entire costs in this court should be paid by defendants
Frederick M. Hubbell and Frederick C. Hubbell.
No. 66. Decree reversed.
No. 67. Decree affirmed.
Cause remanded to the DistrictCourt for further proceedings in conformity with thi opinion.

