OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Parties.

254 U. S.

tended to show that the assignment was taken in
extinguishment, of an existing indebtedness and not
for mere speculation upon the outcome of intended
litigation.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

GREAT WESTERN SERUM COMPANY v,
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 90.

Argued November 12, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

A contractual obligation of the United States to pay the owner cannot
be implied from the seizure and destruction of anti-hog-cholera
serum by agents of the Bureau of Animal Industry, without agreement to purchase, nor from the Act of March 4, 1915, c. 144, 38
Stat. 1115, authorizing the Secretary of Agriculture in dealing with
an emergency arising from animal disease to expend money in its
eradication, including payment of claims growing out of purchase

and destruction of materials contaminated or exposed to the. disease. P. 241.
54 Ct. Clms. 203, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion
Mr. Edwin/H. Cassels, with whom Mr. Jamas H Wil
keron and Mr. Eaward F. Colladay were On the briefs
for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General"Davis, with whom MO.

GREAT WESTERN SERUM CO. v. UNITED STATIS 241
Opinion of the Court.

210.

Charles H. Bradley, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.
MR.
court.

JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS delivered theopinion of the

'The Serum Company sued to recover the value of, antihog-cholera serum, anti-cholera virus and serum blood,
seized without agreement to purchase by agents of the
Bureau of Animal Industry in November, 1914, and thereafter destroyed. Judgment went for the defendant and we
are asked to reverse it upon the ground that "as a conclusion of law, the court should have found that the Act of
Congress of March 4, 1915, created an obligation to pay
for appellant's materials, and that the facts show an
implied contract to purchase and to pay. for such materials." The act provides:
"In case of an emergency arising out of the existence
of foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest, contagious pleuropneumonia, or other contagious or infectious disease of
animals, which in the opinion, of the Secretary of Agriculture threatens the live-stock industry of the country, he
may expend in the city of Washington or elsewhere, out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise -appropriated,
the sum of $2,500,000, which sum is hereby appropriated,
or so much thereof as he determines to be necessary, in the
arrest and eradication of any such disease, including the
payment of claims growing out of -past and future purchases and destruction, in cooperation with the States, of
animals affected by or exposed to, or of materials contaminated by or exposed to, any such disease, wherever found
and irrespective of ownership, under like: or substantially
similar circumstances, when such owner has complied with
all quarantine regulations, and said sum shall be immediately available for the purposes specified." 38 Stat.
1115.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

There was no purchase of the destroyed articles or agreement therefor-none is claimed-and we think it quite
clear that no contractual obligation by the United States
to pay for them can be implied from the act itself.
The judgment below must be
Affirmed.

THAMES TOWBOAT COMPANY v. THE SCHOONER
"FRANCIS McDONALD," HER TACKLE, &c.,
CUMMINS, CLAIMANT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 97.

Argued November 18, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.

The rule that contracts for the construction of ships are non-maritime
and not within the admiralty jurisdiction applies to contracts for
the work and material necessary to finisA a partly constructed
vessel which has been launched. P. 243.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel Park, with whom Mr. Henry E. Mattison
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Mark Ash, with whom Mr. Peter Alexander was on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The libel was dismissed for want of jurisdiction and the
cause is here on that question only.

