OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE COMPANY v. PEOPLE
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 46. Argued December 16, 1919; restored to docket for reargument January 26, 1920; reargued October 11, 12, 1920.-Decided November 22, 1920.
1. In an action to recover penalties from a bridge company for failure
to build foot and carriage ways upon its railway bridge as required
by an act amending its charter, it is premature to inquire whether a
distinct and independent provision, reducing the tolls chargeable for
vehicles and pedestrians below the limits fixed in the charter, impairs
the obligation of the charter contract, since the invalidity of the toll
reductions would not affectthe requirement to build the additions.
P. 130.
2. Under acts of New York and Canada consolidating a New York
with a like Canadian corporation, the new company constructed
a bridge over the Niagara River for railroad uses only. The original
charters provided for constructing foot and carriage ways also, that
of New York in permissive but that of Canada in mandatory language, and the acts of consolidation bound the new company to all
the duties of each of its constituents. Held: (1) That the new company had no charter contract immunity from being required to add
the foot and carriage ways in New York under power reserved by the
State to amend the charter, arid that such requirement was not
inconsistent with the contract clause of the Constitution; nor, in
the absence of anything to show that the additions would not yield
a reasonable return, could it be held to violate the Fourteenth
Amendment. Id.
3. The Act of June 30, 1870, c. 176, 16 Stat. 173, in recognizing as a
lawful structure any bridge constructed across the Niagara River in
pursuance of New York Laws, 1857, c. 753, and amendments (Laws
1869, c. 550), subject to the supervision of the Secretary of War and
his approval of the plans, recognized that the existence of the bridge
company and its right to build on New York land came from New
York; and the facts that the bridge when built, as a railroad bridge

INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO. v. NEW YORK.
126.

127

Counsel for Parties.

only, was devoted wholly to international commerce and that
Congress by the Act of June 23, 1874, c. 475, 18 Stat. 275, declared
it a lawful structure and an established post route for mail of the
United States, did not supplant the authority of the State to require
the company to equip the bridge with ways for foot passengers and
vehicles as contemplated by its charter. P. 131.
4. The Act of 1874, supra, by declaring the bridge lawful as built, did
not repeal the authority given by the Act of 1870, supra, to build
subject to the approval of the Secretary of War, and the fact that
this bridge was twice rebuilt without foot and carriage ways with the
Secretary's consent, but under plans approved by him and providing
for such additions in future, supports rather than negatives the view
that the power of the State to require them was contemplated
throughout and that Congress did not seek to divest it. Id.
5. The mere fact that a bridge is international, crossing an international stream, does not of itself divest the State of power over its
part of the structure, in the silence of Congress. P. i33.
6. The Act of March 3, 1899, ยง 9, c. 425, 30 Stat. 1151, in requiring the
assent of Congress to the erection of bridges over navigable waters
not wholly within a State, does not make Congress the source of the
right to build but assumes that the right comes from the State. Id.
7. The conveyance of a part of the land under the bridge to the United
States for a public purpose not connected with the administration
of the Government did not affect the authority of New York over
the residue within the State, and taken in connection with the acts
of the Government before and after the grant does not invalidate,
even in part, the New York act requiring the additional construction.
P. 134.
223 N. Y. 137, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Adelbert Moot and Mrs. Helen Z. M. Rodgers,
with whom Mr. Henry W. Sprague and Mr. William L.
Marcy were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James S. Y. Itins, with whom Mr. Ckarles D.
Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York,
Mr. Ralph A. Kellogg and Mr. E. C. Aiken wece on the

briefs, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

MR. JUSTIaCE HoLMics delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit brought by the State of New York to
recover penalties from the Bridge Company for failure to
place upon its bridge a roadway for vehicles and a pathway for pedestrians between Squaw Island in Niagara
River and the mainland of New York State as required by
c. 666 of the Laws of 1915 of the State of New York. The
defendant set up that the act was contrary to the Constitution of the United States in specified respects, but the
plaintiff got judgment in the Supreme Court, which was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 223 N. Y. 137.
The Bridge Company originally was incorporated by a
special charter from the State of New York. Laws of
1857, c. 753. As the bridge was to cross the Niagara River
from Buffalo to Canada, a similar corporation was created
under the laws of Canada, 20 Vict. c. 227, and subsequently
the two corporations were consolidated, pursuant to
Laws of New York, 1869, c. 550, and a Canadian Act,
32 and 33 Vict. c. 65, subject to all the duties of each of
the consolidated companies. By the Act of Congress of
June 30, 1870, c. 176, 16 Stat. 173, any bridge constructed
across the Niagara River in pursuance of the New York
Act of 1857 and any acts of the New York legislature then
in force amending the same was authorized as a lawful
structure subject to the supervision of the Secretary of
War and his approval of the plans. By the' New York
Act of 1857, "Said bridge may be constructed as well for
the passage of persons on foot and in carriages and otherwise as for the passage of railroad trains," ยง 15. And
"whenever the said bridge shall be complete for the
passage of ordinary teams and carriages" the company
.may erect toll gates and charge tolls not exceeding certain
rates for foot passengers, carriages, &c. The original
Canadian Act had words similar to those just quoted from

INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO. v. NEW YORK.
126.

129

Opinion of the Court.

ยง 15, except that it said "shall be constructed" instead of
"may be," a fact to which we shall advert again.
Between 1870 and 1874 the bridge was built as required
by the charter with one draw across Black Rock Harbor
and one across the main channel of the river. It crossed
Squaw Island on a trestle, afterwards filled in, but was
built as a railroad bridge exclusively without any provision
for footpaths or roadways. By the Act of Congress of
June 23, 1874, c. 475, 18 Stat. 275, it was declared a lawful
structure and an established post route for the mail of the
United States. In the year 1899 a plan for rebuilding
the bridge with wings for roadways and footpaths was
approved by the Secretary of War subject to changes at
the expense of the Company if the Secretary should deem
them advisable. The rebuilding took place in 1899-1901,
but omitted the wings, and this modification was assented
to by the Secretary of War.
The Niagara River is navigable at this point. In pursuance of plans for improvement adopted by the United
States, in 1906 it acquired from the State of New York
the land under Black Rock Harbor, lying on the New
York side of Squaw Island, and the adjacent portions of
the Erie Canal, both being within the limits of the State
and crossed by the bridge. Thereafter the improvements
were carried out.
In 1907 the Secretary of' War gave notice to the Company that the bridge over Black Rock Harbor and Erie
Canal obstructed navigation and that changes were required. The Company submitted plans again showing
in dotted lines wings for roadways and footpaths, noting
that they were not to be put in at present but that provision was made in the design for their future construction. The plans were approved and the bridge was built
without the wings, the completion being reported by
his resident representative to the Secretary of War.
By c. 666 of the laws of New York for 1915, the charter

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

of the Company was amended so as to require the construction of a roadway for vehicles and a pathway for
pedestrians upon the draw across Black Rock Harbor,
the Company being allowed to charge tolls not exceeding
specified sums. The Company failed to comply with the
requirement and the time. limit had expired before this
suit was brought to recover penalties imposed by the act.
It is found that the construction was necessary for the
public interest and convenience; that the cost of the
changes is insignificant in comparison with the assets
and net earnings of the Company, and that it does not
appear that the investment would not yield a reasonable
return.
The first objections to the new requirement made by
the State are that it impairs the obligation of the contract
in the original charter and takes the Company's property
without due process of law. .The argument is based partly
upon a reduction of the tolls from those mentioned in the
charter of 1857, made by the Act of 1915. Concerning
this it is enough to say that the objection is premature.
The clause relating to the construction of the roadway and pathway is distinct from and independent of
that which fixes the maximum rthtes to be charged. The
latter might be invalid and the former good. If the rates
are too ow they can be changed at any time. The only
question now before us is whether the additions shall be
built. As to that it would be going very far in the way
of limiting the reserved right to amend such charters, if it
should be held that the State had not power to require
what originally was contemplated in permissive words as
part of the scheme. But however that might be, the New
York Act authorizing consolidation subjected this consolidated corporation to the duties of the Canadian as well
as of the New York charter, and the Canadian Act made
the arrangement for foot passengers and carriages a duty.
The words that we have quoted plainly impose one. The

INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO. v. NEW YORK.
126.

131

Opinion of the Court.

opinion in Attorney-General v. International Bridge .Co.,
6 Ont. App. 537, 543, implies that they do so by speaking
of the abandonment of a portion of the work as probably
an abuse of the Act of Parliament, and the same is clearly
stated in CanadaSouthern Ry. Co. v. InternationalBridge
Co., 8 App. Cases, 723, 729.
It is argued that, the Canadian Act governing only the
Canadian side, its adoption by New York carried the
obligation no farther. But it appears to us that it would
be quibbling with the rational understanding of the duty
assumed to say that the Company could have supposed
that it had a contract or property right to confine its
building of the footpath and carriage-way to the Canada
side of the boundary line.
The New York legislature of course confined its command to the half of the bridge within its jurisdiction. It
may be presumed that if that command is obeyed either
Canada or the Company will see the propriety of carrying
the way and-path across to the other shore. At all events
the power of New York to insist upon its rights is not
limited by speculation upon that point. As we agree with
the Court of Appeals that this amendment to the charter
was within the power reserved to the State the objection
under the contract clause of the Constitution of course
must fail, and, it would seem, that under the Fourteenth
Amendment also. But-as to the latter we may add, as
the Court of Appeals added, that there is nothing to show
that the addition to the structure will not yield a reasonable return; if that be essential in view of the charter. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 242
U. S. 603.
The only argument that impresses us and the one that
was most pressed is that this is an international bridge,
and that Congress has assumed such control of it as to
exclude any intermeddling by the State. It is said that

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the bridge as constructed was and is devoted wholly to
international commerce and that when Congress authorized it in that form in 1874 that authority must be regarded as the charter under which it was maintained.
Without repeating the considerations urged in support of
this conclusion we will state the reasons that prevail with
us.-The part of the structure with which we are concerned is within the territorial jurisdiction of the State of
New York. There was no exercise of the power of eminent domain by the United States. The State was thesource oi every title to that land and, apart from the
special purposes to which it might be destined, of every
right to use it. Any structure upon it considered merely
as a structure is erected by the authority of New York.
The nature and qualifications of ownership are decided by
the State and although certain supervening uses consistent
with those qualifications cannot be interfered with by the
State, still the foundation of a right to use the land at
all must be laid by state law. Not only the existence of
the Company but its right to build upon New York land
came from New York, as was recognized by the form of
the original Act of Congress of 1870, which speaks of any
bridge built "in pursuance of" the New York statutes.
It did not, as perhaps the New York Consolidation Act
did, refer to those statutes simply as documents and
incorporate them, it referred to them as the source of the
Company's power.
From an early date the State has been recognized as
the source of authority in the absence of action by Congress. Willson v. Black-Bird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245.
Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S.678. And this Court
has been slow to interpret such action as intended to exclude the source of rights from all power in the premises.
In a case of navigable waters wholly within a State, over
which a right of way had been conveyed to the United
States and which the United States was spending con-

INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO. v. NEW YORK.
126.

133

Opinion of the Court.

siderable sums to improve, it was held that, whether, or,
not Congress had power to authorize private persons to
build in such waters without the consent of the State, an
act making comprehensive regulations of work within
them did not manifest a purpose to exclude the previously
existing authority of the State over such work. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410, 413, 428, et seq.
But it is said that a different rule applies to an international stream and that Congress has recognized the
distinction by the Act of March -3, 1899, c. 425, ยง 9, 30
Stat. 1151. It is true that that statute makes a distinction,
but the distinction is that bridges may be built across
navigable waters wholly within the State if approved by
the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of War, but,
with regard to waters not wholly within the State, only
after the consent of Congress has been obtained. The
act does not make Congress the source of the right to
build but assumes that the right comes from another
source, that is, the State. It -merely subjects the right
supposed to have been obtained from there to the further
condition of getting from Congress consent to action upon
the grant.
No doubt in the case of an international bridge the
action of a State will be scrutinized in order to avoid any
possible ground for international complaint, but the mere
fact that the bridge was of that nature would not of itself
take away the power of the State over its part of the structure if Congress were silent, any more than the fact that it
was a passageway for interstate commerce or crossed a
navigable stream. When Congress has acted we see no
reason for not leaving the situation as Congress has seemed
to leave it, if on the most critical exqinination we discover
no intent to withdraw state control, but on the contrary
an assumption that the control is to remain. We have
adverted to the implications of the general law of 1899 and
have mentioned the statutes that deal specifically with

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Dissent.

254 U. S.

this bridge. The Act of 1874 declaring the existing bridge
lawful was a confirmation which it was natural to seek
but was not a repeal of the authority given to the Company in 1870 to build subject to the approval of the
Secretary of War. The superstructure has been rebuilt
since 1874 and the Secretary of War twice has approved
plans showing the carriage and footways. It is true that
the Company never has sought to execute that part of the
plan, but on the facts that-we have stated it appears to us a
strange contention that it has contract or property rights
not to be required to build the bridge or that Congress by
implication has forbidden the State to demand that the
plan recognized by everyone from the beginning should
at last be carried out.
The conveyance of a part of the land under the bridge
to the United States for a public purpose not connected
with the administration of the Government did not affect
the authority of New York over the residue within the
State, and taken in connection with the acts of the Government before and after the grant does not invalidate the
statute of 1915 even in part. See Cummings v. Chicago,
188 U. S. 410, 413. Fort Leavenworth R. R. Co. v. Loue,
114 U. S. 525. Omaechevarriav. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343, 346,
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR.
JUsTICE McREYNoLDs, dissent.

