JIN FUEY MOY v. UNITED STATES.
175.

Syllabus

Prescott & Phmniz Ry. Co. v. Grant Brothers Construction
Co., 228 U. S. 177; Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co., supra;Perryv. Philadelphia,Baltimore & Washington
R. R. Co., 24 Delaware, 399; McKay v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. (Tenn.), 182 S. W. Rep. 874; Fowler V.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 229 Fed. Rep. 373. In violation
of that agreement he wrongfully sought and obtained a
judgment against the railroad company, which as between
the two companies the express company is bound to pay.
The judgment' was obtained in an action to which that
company was not a party and wherein it could not be
heard. He is financially irresponsible and if the judgment
is collected the express company, which has not been in
any wise negligent or at fault, will be remediless. In
these circumstances, that company is entitled in equity
and good conscience, as is shown by the cases before cited,
to a decree holding him to his agreement and depriving
him of his present inequitable advantage, and to that end
enjoining him from collecting the judgment.
It follows that the decree of the District Court was right
and that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reversing it.
Decree reversed.

JIN FUEY MOY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT 'COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 44. Argued October 11, 1920.-Decided December 6, 1920.
1. In a caseproperly here on a constititionai question under Jud. Code,
§ 238, the court retains its jurisdiction to decide other quest ons
presented, after the constitutional question has been settled in another cae. P. 191.
2. In an indictment charging defendant with unlawfully selling mor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

phine in violation of the Anti-Narcotic Act by issuing a prescription,
the clause as to issuing the prescription, being intimately involved
in the description of the offense, cannot be treated as surplusage,
but it is not repugnant to the charge of selling, since under the act
one person may take a principal part in a prohibited sale of morphine belonging to another by issuing a prescription for it, in view of
Crim. Code, § 332, making whoever aids, abets, counsels, commands,
induces or procures the commission of an offense a principal. P. 192.
3. Subdivision (a) of § 2 of the Anti-Narcotic Act, in allowing the
dispensing or distribution of narcotic drugs "to a patient" by a
registered physician 'in the course of his professional practice only,"
confines the immunity strictly within the appropriate bounds of a
physician's professional practice, not permitting sales to dealers or
distributions intended to satisfy the appetites or cravings of persons
addicted to the use of such drugs. P. 194.
4. In a criminal prosecution in the District Court in Pennsylvania;
the defendant's wife is not competent to testify for her husband,
either generally or by contradicting testimony that certain matters
transpired iiiher presence. P. 195.
253 Fed. Rep. 213, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. Ralph Burton, with whom Mr. Blaine Mallan
was on the briefs, for'plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor General for the United States.
MR.JUSTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error was indicted and convicted for violating § 2 of an Act of Congress approved December 17, 1914,
commonly known as the Harrison Anti-Narcotic Act (38
Stat. 785, c. 1).1 His motion in arrest of judgment having
SEc. 2. That it shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs except in pursuance
of a written order of the person to whom such article is sold, bartered,
exchanged, or given, on a forn. to be issued in bIQ&k for that purpose
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. . . . Nothing contained in this section shall apply(a) To the dispensing or distribution of any of the aforesaid drugs

JIN FUEY MOY v. UNITED STATES.
189.

Opinion of the Court.

been overruled (253 Fed. Rep. 213), he brought the case
here by direct writ of error under § 238, Judicial Code,
upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of the act.
Afterwards this question was set at rest by our decision in
United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, sustaining the act;
but our jurisdiction continues for the purpose of disposing
of other questions raised in the record. Brolan v. United
States, 236 U. S. 216; Piercev. United States, 252 U. S. 239.
These, questions relate to the sufficiency of the indictment, the adequacy of the eyidence to warrant a conviction, the admissibility of certain evidence offered by defendant and rejected by the trial court, and the instructions given and refused to be given to the jury.
The indictment contained twenty counts, differing only
in matters of detail. Defendant was convicted upon eight
counts, acquitted upon the others. Each count averred
that on a date specified, at Pittsburgh, in the County of
Allegheny, in the Western District of Pennsylvania, and
within the jurisdiction of the court, defendant was a
practicing physician, and did unlawfully, willfully, knowingly, and feloniously sell, barter, exchange, and give
away certain derivatives and salts of opium, to-wit, a
specified quantity of morphine sulphate, to a person
named, not in pursuance of a written order from such
person on a form issued in blank for that purpose by the
to a patient by a physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon registered
under this Act in the course of his professional practice only: Provided,
That sucl physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon shall keep a record
of all such drugs dispensed or distributed, showing the amount dispensed or distributed, the date, and the name and address of the
patient to whom such dregs are dispensed or distributed, except such
as may be dispensed or distributed to a patient upon whom such p ysician, dentist or veterinary surgeon shall personally attend; .
(b) To the sale, dispensing, or distribution of any of the aforosaid
drugs by a dealer to a consumer under and in pursuance of a wrritten
prescription issued by a physician, dentist, or veterinary swugeon
registered under this Act: .

OCTOBER, TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. 1.

Commissioner of Internal Revenue under the provisions
of § 2 of the act, "in manner following, to-wit, that the
said Jin Fuey Moy, at the time and place aforesaid, did
issue and dispense" to the person named a certain prescription of which a copy was set forth, and that said
person "was not then and there a patient of the said Jin
Fuey Moy, and the said morphine sulphate was dispensed
and distributed by the said Jin Fuey Moy not in the course
of his professional practice only; contrary to the form of
the Act of Congress," etc.
It is objected that the act of selling or giving away a
drug and the act of issuing a prescription are so essentially
different that' to allege that defendant sold the drug by
issuing a prescription for it amounts to a contradiction of
terms, and the repugnance renders the indictment fatally
defective. The Government suggests that the clause as to
issuing the prescription may be rejected as surplusage; but
we are inclined to think it enters so intimately into the
description of the offense intended to be charged that it
cannot be eliminated, and 'that unless defendant could
"sell," in a criminal sense, by issuing a prescription, the
indictment is bad.. If "selling" must be confined to a
parting with one's own property there might be difficulty.
But by § 332 of the Criminal Code, "Whoever directly
commits any act constituting an offense defined in any law
of the United States, or aids, abets, counsels, commands,
induces, or procures its commission, is a principal."
Taking this together with the clauses quoted from § 2 of
the Anti-Narcotic Act, it is easy to see, and the evidence in
'this case demonstrates, that one may take a principal part
in a prohibited sale of an opium derivative belonging to
another person by unlawfully issuing a prescription to the
would-be purchaser. Hence there is no necessary repugnance between prescribing and selling, and the indictment
must be sustained.
The evidence shows that defendant was a practicing

JIN FUEY MOY v. UNITED STATES.
189.

Opinion of the Court.

physician in Pittsburgh, registered under the act so as to
be allowed to dispense or distribute opium and its derivatives without a written order in official form, "in the
course of his professional practice only"; that he was in the
habit of issuing prescriptions for morphine sulphate without such written order and not in the ordinary course of
professional practice; that he issued them to persons not
his patients and not previously known to him, professed
morphine users, for the mere purpose, as the jury might
find, of enabling such persons to continue the use of the
drug, or to sell it to others; in some cases he made a superficial physical examination, in others none at all; his
prescriptions called for large quantities of morphine-8 to
16 drams at a time-to be used "as directed," while the
directions left the recipient free to use the drug virtually as
he pleased. His charges were not according to the usual
practice of medical men, but according to the amount of
the drug prescribed, being invariably one dollar per dram.
All the prescriptions were filled at a single drug store in
Pittsburgh, the recipients being sent there by defendant
for the purpose; and persons inquiring at that drug store
for morphine were sent to defendant for a prescription.
The circumstances strongly tended to show co6peration
between defendant and the proprietors of the drug store.
At and about the dates specified in the indictment-the
spring of the year 1917-and for more than two years
before, the number of prescriptions issued by defendant
and filled at this drug store ran into the hundreds each
month, all calling for morphine sulphate or morphine
tablets in large quantities. In one case a witness who had
procured from defendant two prescriptions-one in his
own name for 10 drams, the other in the name of a fictitious
wife for 6 drams-and had been directed by defendant
to the specified drug store in order to have them filled,
asked defendant to confirm the prescriptions by telephone
so there would be no trouble i to which defendant replied:

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

"Oh, never mind; we do business together; we understand each other." On another occasion the same witness,
having received from defendant two prescriptions for 8
drams each, one in his own name, the other in the name of
the supposed wife, stating in one case a Cleveland address,
in the other a Pittsburgh address, presented them at the
drug store to be filled, and was told by the manager that
he would not fill any more prescriptions under a Pittsburgh
address; "they were taking too big a chance, and I must go
eback to the Chinaman and tell him what he told me, and
he would understand-the Chinaman would understand."
Witness returned the two prescriptions to defendant, told
him what the manager had said, and defendant retained
those prescriptions and issued to the witness a new one
for 16 drams in place. of them, with which the witness
returned to the drug store and procured the specified
quantity of the drug.
In each case where defendant was found guilty the
evidence fully warranted the jury in finding that 4e aided,
abetted, and procured a sale of morphine sulphate without
written order upon a blank form issued by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; and that he did this by means
of a prescription issued not to a patient and not in the
course of his professional practice, contrary to the prohibition of,§ 2 of the act. Manifestly the phrases "to a
patient" and, "in the course of his professional practice
only" are intended to confine the immunity of a registered
physician, in dispensing the narcotic drugs mentioned in
the act, strictly within the appropriate bounds of a physician's professional practice, and not to extend it to include
a sale to a dealer or a distribution intended to cater to the
appetite or ,satisfy the craving of one addicted to the use
of the drug. A "prescription" issued for either of the
latter purposes protects neither the physician who issues it
nor the dealer who knowingly accepts and-fills it. Webb v.
United States, 249 U. S. 96.

JIN FUEY MOY v. UNITED STATES.
189.

Opinion of the Court.

Errors assigned to the instructions given and refused to
be.given by the trial judge to the jury are disposed of by
what we have said.
But a single point remains-hardly requiring mentionthe refusal to permit defendant's wife to testify in his
behalf. It is conceded that she was not a competent witness for all purposes, a wife's evidence not having been
admissible at the time of the first Judiciary Act, and the
relaxation of the rule in this regard by § 858, Rev. Stats.,
being confined to civil actions. Logan v. United States,
144 U, S. 263, 299-- 302; Hendrix v. United States, 219 U. S.
79, 91. But, it is said, the general rule does not apply to
exclude the wife's evidence in the present case because she
was offered not "in behalf of her husband," that is, not
to prove his innocence, but simply to contradict the testimony of particular witnesses for the Government who had
testified to certain matters as having transpired in her
presence. The distinction is without substance. The rule
that excludes a wife from testifying for her husband is
based upon her interest in the event, and applies irrespective of the kind of testimony she might give.
The judgment under review is
Affirmed.

