UNDERWOOD T'WRITER CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.

113

Syllabus.

103.

inherited lands from the court in which the guardianship
is pending, or subject that court's action to the approval
of another court of the same rank. In either event conflict and confusion will almost certainly ensue and be
detrimental to the minor heirs. But, if the proviso be
regarded, as well it may, as referring to heirs not under
guardianship-in other words, to adult heirs-the two
provisions will operate in entire harmony and all fullblood heirs will receive the measure of protection intended.
We think this is the true construction.

Decree affirmed.

UNDERWOOD
TYPEWRITER
COMPANY
v.
CHAMBERLAIN, TREASURER OF THE STATE
OF CONNECTICUT.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPERIOR COURT
CONNECTICUT.

OF

THE

STATE OF

-No. 215. Argued October 13, 14, 1920.-Decided November 15, 1920.
1. A state tax upon the proportion of the net profits of a sister-state
corporation earned by operations conducted within the taxing State,
the enforcement of which is left to the ordinary means of collecting taxes, does not violate Art. I, § 8, of the Federal Constitution
by imposing a burden upon interstate commerce. P. 119.
2. In considering whether a state tax, purporting to be on the net income of a sister-state cwrporation earned within the taxing State, violates the Fourteenth Amendment by reaching income earned outside,
it is not necessary to decide whether it is a direct tax on income or
an excise measured by income. P. 120.
3. A state tax upon the income of a sister-state corporation manufacturimg its product within the State but deriving the greater
part of its receipts from sales outside the State, which attributes
to processes eonducted within.,the State the proportion of the total
net income Which the value of real and tangible personal property

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument-for Plaintiff in Error.

254 U. S.

owned by the corporation within the State bears to the value of all
its real and tangible personal property, is not inherently unreasonable and calculated to tax income earned beyond the borders of the
State; and, unless it be shown to be so in its application to the
particular case, cannot be held to violate the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 120.
4. Held, that the fact that the amount of net income so allocated to
the taxing State greatly exceeded in this case the portion actually
received there, does not prove that income earned outside was included in the assessment.
5. The principle discussed in Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400,
414, respecting the right of a State under the Fourteenth Amendment to impose discriminatory taxes on a sister-state corporation
which had made large permanent investments in railroad property
in the State before the tax law was enacted, is inapplicable to this
case, involving'a non-discriminatory tax on the locally earned incorse of a manufacturing corporation. P. 122.
94 Connecticut, 47, affirmed.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Arthur M. Marsh and Mr. Arthur L. Shipman,
with whom Mr. Charles Strauss and Mr. Eugene D. Boyer

were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Assuming the tax to be what the statute itself says
that it is, namely, a tax on net income:
Taxation upon net income is either (a) a direct tax upon
the property out of which the income issues, which is
another way of saying that it is upon the tangible and
intangible assets of the corporation, or (b) it is a tax upon
net income, as such, as a species of property disconnected
from all other assets of the corporation.
If this tax falls under (a), it is clearly invalid, since,
under the Connecticut allocation, that State takes 47 per
cent. of all the property and, accordingly, is taxing assets
Aoutside of Connecticut, no allowance for intangibles being
made.
1ff this tax falls under (b), then the situs of the net income, which is the property that is taxed, is all important,

UNDERWOOD T'WRITER CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
113.

115

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and whether such situs is exclusively in Delaware as the
domicile of the corporation, or is localized in part in
various States, it certainly is not lawfully allocated by a
division among the States upon a comparison of tangible
assets only.
If the tax is a property tax upon the assets of the
corporation in Connecticut, it is invalid because it is not
dependent in fact on the value of such assets, no appraisal
being provided, no recourse to the courts for ascertainment or correction of the valuation except as to the
relative value of tangible assets in Connecticut to tangible
assets everywhere, and there being no provision for ascertainment of their value unless by. an arbitrary form of
application of the. so-called unit rule. This fundamental
error is emphasized by the fact that there is no allowance
or deduction for stocks, bonds, accounts receivable, bank
deposits or other intangible assets of that character located
outside of Connecticut.
If the tax could possibly be considered as a tax on
property of the corporation in Connecticut measured by
part of the net income, it is invalid because it is based upon
the false assumption that net income is produced, and has
a local situs, in proportion to the relative location of
tangible assets only.
If the tax is regarded as an excise for the privilege
of
doing business in Connecticut, to be valid it should have
been confined to the subject-mattei which Connecticut
is entitled to control; that is, the manufacturing and the
business purely intrastate, consisting of sales and shipments from Hartford to Connecticut customers, also
leases, repairs, etc., in Connecticut for Connecticut customers, and probably if it is such an.excise, it must have
a suitable maximum. At all events, it must have some
logical or reasonable relation to the exercise or value of
these privileges.
If not described and intended as such an excise, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

254 U. S.

should, at the very least, operate in effect as such. But
the measure adopted having no relation whatever to
intrastate sales, leases and repairs, etc., and only the most
arbitrary relation to manufacturing carried on in Connecticut, and having no maximum, cannot be regarded as
satisfying the law. Forty-seven per cent. of the net
income is arrogated to itself by. Connecticut purely on the
basis of tangible assets in Connecticut on a given day of
the year, without any consideration of the volume of
manufacturing at the factory or the ratio of income which
might be said to issue out of the manufacturing operations,
and the allocation is without allowance or opportunity
for adjustment on account of varying ratios of net income
produced by the various operations of the corporation, and
without deduction on account of income issuing entirely
and wholly out of business having no connection with
Connecticut.
. We submit that it was not intended by the legislature
as an excise and, whether it was or not, its operation and
effect render it invalid because it is unreasonable, arbitrary and has not even a remote relation to the business
privileges which Connecticut can control. Furthermore,
even regarding net income as a measure only, it is not
open to Connecticut to assess foreign corporations upon
data so irrelevant, so inadequate and so remotely related.,
both commercially and logically, to the exercise of local
business privileges.
Upon every one of the above alternative theories of this
tax, it either transgresses the commerce clause, or the due
process clause, or it discriminates unlawfully against the
foreign corporation, principally engaged in interstate commerce and established in the State prior to this legislation.
Mr. James E. Cooper and Mr. Hugh M. Alcorn, with
whom Mr. Frank E. Healy, Attorney General of the State
of Connecticut; was on the brief, for defendant in error.

UNDERWOOD T'WRITER CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
113.

117

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Louis H. Porter, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curia.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This action was brought by the Underwood Typewriter Company, a Delaware corporation, in the Superior
Court for the County of Hartford, Connecticut, to recover
the amount of a tax assessed upon it by the latter State
and paid under protest. The company contended that as
applied to it the taxing act violated rights guaranteed by
the Federal Constitution. The constitutional questions
involved were reserved by that court for consideration and
advice by the Supreme Court of Errors. The answers to
these questions being favorable to the State, 94 Connecticut, 47, judgment was entered by the Superior
Court
confirming the validity of the tax. The case comes here
on writ of error to that court.
Connecticut established in 1915 a comprehensive system of taxation applicable alike to all foreign and domestic corporations carrying on business within the State.
This system prescribes practically the only method by
which such corporations are taxed, other than the general property tax to which all property located within
the State, whether the owner be a resident or a nonresident, an individual or corporation, is subject. The
act divides business corporations into four classes and the
several classes are taxed by somewhat different methods.
The fourth class, "Miscellaneous Corporations," includes,
among others, manufacturing and trading companies,
and with these alone are we concerned here. Upon their
net income earned during the preceding year from business
carried on within the State a tax of two per cent. is imposed annually. The amount of the net income is ascertained by reference to the income upon which the corpora-

118 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

tion is required to pay a tax to the United States. If the
company carries on business also outside the State of
Connecticut, the proportion of its net income earned from
business carried on within the State is ascertained by
apportionment in the following manner: The corporation
is required to state 'in its annual return to the tax commissioner from -what general source its profits are principally derived. If the company's net profits are derived
principally from ownership, sale or rental of real property,
or from the sale or use of tangible personal property, the
tax is imposed on such proportion of the whole net income,
as the fair cash value of the real and the tangible personal
property within the State bears to the fair cash value of
all the real and tangible personal property of the company.
If the net profits of the company are derived principally
from intangible property the tax is imposed upon such
proportion of the whole net income as the gross receipts
within the State bear to the total gross receipts of the
company. A corporation aggrieved because of a tax
assessed upon it may after paying the tax apply for relief
to the Superior Court for the County of Hartford. There
it may show cause why it is not subject to the tax or why
the tax should have been less. If the whole tax assessed
is found -by the court to be proper, it enters judgment
confirming the same. If the tax is found to be for any
reason unauthorized in whole or in part, the court enters
judgment for the company in the amount with interest
which it is entitled to recover; and the state treasurer is directed to pay the same. The decision of the superior court
is subject to review by the Supreme Court of Errors as in
other cases. Laws of 1915, c. 292, part IV, §§ 19-29; Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,92 Connecticut, 199.
The Underwood Typewriter Company is engaged in the
business of manufacturing typewriters and kindred
articles; in selling its product and also certain accessories
and, supplies which it purchases; and in repairing and

UNDERWOOD T'WRITER CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
113.

119

Opinion of the Court.

renting such machines. Its main office is in New York
City. All its manufacturing is done in Connecticut. It
has branch offices in other States for the sale, lease and
repair of machines and the sale of supplies; and it has
one such branch office in Connecticut. All articles made
by it-and some which it purchases--are stored in Connecticut until shipped direct to the branch offices, purchasers
or lessees. In its return to the tax commissioner of
Connecticut, made in 1916 under the above law, the
company declared that its net profits during the preceding
year had been derived principally from tangible personal
property; that these profits amounted to $1,336,586.13;
that the fair cash value of the real estate and tangible
personal property in Connecticut was $2,977,827.67, and
the fair cash value of the real estate and tangible personal
property outside that State was $3,343,155.11.
The
proportion of the real estate and tangible personal property within the State was thus 47 per cent. The tax
commissioner apportioned that percentage of the net
profits, namely $629,668.50, as having been earned from
the business done within the State, and assessed thereon a
tax of $12,593.37, being at the rate of two per cent. The
company having paid the tax under protest, brought this
action in the Superior Court for the County of Hartford
to recover the whole amount.
First. It is contended that the tax burdens interstate
commerce and hence is void under § 8 of Article I of the
Federal Constitution. Payment of the tax is not made
a condition precedent to the right of the corporation to
carry on business, including interstate business. -Its
enforcement is left to the ordinary means of collecting
taxes. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235
U. S. 350, 364; Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160, 163. The statute is, thereform, not
open to the objection that it compels the company to pay
for the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

tax is not obnoxious to the commerce clause merely
because imposed upon property used in interstate commerce, even if it takes the form of a tax for the privilege
of exercising its franchise within the State. Postal
Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 695. This
tax is based upon the net profits earned within the State.
That a tax measured by net profits is valid, although these
profits may have been derived in part, or indeed mainly,
from interstate commerce is settled. U. S. Glue Co. v.
Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37,
57. Compare Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165. Whether
it be deemed a property tax or a franchise tax, it is not
obnoxious to the commerce clause.
Second. It is contended that the tax violates the
Fourteenth Amendment because, directly or indirectly,
it is imposed on income arising from business conducted
beyond the boundaries of the State. In considering this
objection we may lay on one side the question whether
this is an excise tax purporting to be measured by the
income accruing from business within the State or a direct
tax upon that income; for the "argument, upon analysis,
resolves itself into a mere question of definitions, and has
no legitimate bearing upon any question raised under the
Federal Constitution." Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S.37, 55.
In support of its objection that business outside the State
is taxed plaintiff rests solely upon the showing that of its
net profits $1,293,643.95 was received in other States and
$42,942.18 in Connecticut, while under the method of apportionment of net income required by the statute 47 per
cent. of its net income is attributable to operations in Connecticut. But this showing wholly fails to sustain the objection. The profits of the corporation were largely earned
by a series of transactions beginning with manufacture'in
Connecticut and ending with sale in other States. In
this it was typical of a large part of the manufacturing
business conducted in the State. The legislature in

UNDERWOOD T'WRITER CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
113.

121

Opinion of the Court.

attempting to put upon this business its fair share of the
burden of taxation was faced with the impossibility of
allocating specifically the profits earned by the processes
conducted within its borders. It, therefore, adopted a
method of apportionment which, for all that appears in
this record, reached, and was meant to reach, only the.
profits earned within the State. "The plaintiff's argument on this branch of the case," as stated by the Supreme
Court of Errors, "carries the burden of showing that 47
per cent. of its net income is not reasonably attributable,
for purposes of taxation, to the manufacture of products
from the sale of which 80 per cent. of its gross earnings
was derived after paying manufacturing costs." The
corporation has not even attempted to show this; and for
aught that appears the percentage of net profits earned in
Connecticut may have been much larger than 47 per cent.
There is, consequently, nothing in this record to show
that the method of apportionment adopted by the State
was inherently arbitrary,1 or that its application to this
corporation produced an unreasonable result.
We have no occasion to consider whether the rule prescribed if applied under different conditions might be
obnoxious to the Constitution. Adams Express Co. v.
Ohio, 166 U. S. 185, 222. Nor need we consider the
contention made on behalf of the State, that the statute
is necessarily valid, because the prescribed rule of apportionment is not rigid, and provision is made for rectifying
by proceedings in the Superior Court any injustice resulting from its application.
t Compare Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S.
530, 552; Pittsburg, etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 430; Cleveland, etc., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 445; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 14; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165
U. S. 194, 221; 166 U. S. 185; American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall,

174 U. S.70, 75; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177 U. S. 149,
152; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 365.4'

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

Third. It is stated in the brief, doubtless inadvertently,
that the assignment of errors includes the objection that

the tax was void under the Fourteenth Amendment also
on the ground that the company, a foreign corporation,

had made large permanent investments in Connecticut
before the statute of 1915 was enacted. No such error
appears to have been specifically assigned and the objection was not pressed in brief or oral argument. It is
clearly unsound. To the facts presented here the principle
discussed in Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 414,

has no application.
Afirmed.

WATSON ET AL., EXECUTORS OF WATSON, v.
STATE COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATE' S COURT OF NEW YORK COUNTY,
STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 266. Argued October 13, 1920.-Decided November 15, 1920.
In imposing transfer or inheritance taxes, a State may distinguish
between property which has borne its fair share of tax burden in the
decedent's lifetime and property of the same kind and passing to the
same class of transferees, which has not. P. 124.
The additional tax imposed in New York (Cons. Laws, c. 60; Laws
1917, c. 700), on the transfer of certain kinds of securities held by
a decedent at his death on which neither the general property tax
nor the alternative stamp tax has been paid during a fixed period
prior thereto, is based upon a reasonable classification of property
and does not violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Id.
This tax is neither a property tax nor a penalty. P. 125.
226 N. Y. 384, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

