OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Decree.

254 U. S.

STATE OF MINNESOTA v. STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
IN EQUITY.
No. 13, Original. Motion for appointment of commission submitted
October 5, 1920.-Decree entered October 11, 1920.

Interlocutory decree defining boundary and appointing commissioners to locate and designate it, etc. See Minnesota v. Wisconein, 252
U. S. 273.

THIS cause came on to be heard by this court, on the
motions-and suggestions of counsel for the respective parties, for the appointment of a commission to run, locate

and designate the boundary line between the State of Minnesota and the State of Wisconsin, as indicated in the opinion of this coUrt, delivered on the 8th day of March A. D.
1920, [252 U. S.273], and thereupon and on consideration
thereofIt is ordered, adjudged, and decreed as follows:
1. That the true boundary line between the complainant and the defendant in and through Lower St. Louis
Bay, Upper St. Louis Bay, and the St. Louis River, from
Upper St. Louis Bay to the "Falls" in the said river, is as
hereinafter specified.
2. That said boundary line must be ascertained upon a
consideration of the situation existing in 1846 and accurately described by the Meade chart, more specifically
hereinafter referred to.
3. That said boundary line runs from a point midway
between Rice's Point and Connor's Point through the
middle of Lower St. Louis Bay to and with the deep,
channel leading to Upper St. Louis Bay and to a point
therein immediately south of the southern, extremity of
.Grassy ,Point. thence westward along the 'most direct

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
14.

Decree.

course through water not less than eight feet deep eastward of Fisherman's Island, as indicated by the red trace
A-B-C on Minnesota's Exhibit No. 1 (said Exhibit I
being the Meade chart offered and received in evidence
in this suit and no* a part of the record), approximately
one mile to the deep channel and immediately west of the
bar therein, thence with such channel north and west
of Big Island up stream to the "Falls."
4. A commission, consisting of Samuel S. Gannett, of
Washington, D. C.; William B. Patton, of Duluth, Minnesota; and John G. D. Mack, of Madison, Wisconsin,
competent persons, is here and now appointed by the
court to run, locate,, and designate the boundary line
between said States along that portion of said bay and
river heretofore described in this decree, and to locate
said boundary line by proper monuments, courses, and
distances, as fixed by the court in this decree.
5. Before entering upon the discharge of their duties
each of said commissioners shall be duly sworn to perform faithfully, impartially, and without prejudice or
bias, the duties herein imposed, said oaths to be taken
before the clerk of this court or before the clerk of any
district court of the United States or before an officer
authorized by law to administer an oath in the State of
Minnesota or the State of Wisconsin, and returned with
their report. Said commission is authorized and empowered to make examination of the territory in question
of surand to adopt all ordinary and legitimate methods
vey in the designation of the true location of said boundary,
line fixed by the decree, to examine and consider carefully
the opinion of this court delivered on March 8, 1920,
the said Minnesota's Exhibit 1, being the Meade chart,
or a certified copy thereof; and said commission shall do
all other matters necessary to enable it to discharge its
duties and to obtain the end to be accomplished conformably to this decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Decree.

254 U. S.

6. It is further ordered that should any vacancy or
vacancies occur in said board of commissioners by reason
of death, refusal to act, or inability to perform the duties
required by this decree,' the Chief Justice of this court
is thereby authorized and empowered to appoint another
commissioner or commissioners to supply such vacancy
or vacancies, the Chief Justice acting upon such information in the premises as may be satisfactory to him.
7. It is further ordered that said commissioners proceed with all convenient dispatch to discharge their
duties conformably to this decree.
8. It is further ordered that the clerk of this court shall
forward at once to the governor of each of said States of
Minnesota and Wisconsin and to each of the commissioners hereby appointed a copy of this decree and of the
opinion of this court delivered herein March 8, 1920,
duly authenticated.
9. Said commissioners shall make a report of their proceedings under this decree as soon as practicable on or
before the 1st day of May, 1921, and shall return with their
report an itemized statement of services performed and
expenses incurred by them in the performance of their
duties.
10. All other matters are reserved until the coming in
of said report or until such time as matters pertaining to
this cause shall be properly presented to this court for
its consideration.

