WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. SPEIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
SPEIGHT.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 241.

Argued October 12, 1920.-Decided October 25, 1920.

The transmicsion of a telegram between two States is interstate commerce as a matter of fact, and the fact must be tested by the actual
transaction. P. 18.
In transmitting a message from one point to another in the same State,
a telegraph company, following its habitual practice and employing
its established system of wires, relays, etc., sent it into another State
and back to the point of destination, thisbeing in the circumstances
quicker, and more convenient and economical for the company,
than to send over wires wholly within the first State. In an action
to recover for mental anguish caused by a mistake in the message,
wherein the right of recovery hung on the alleged intrastate character of the message, held: (1) That the message was interstate,
irrespective of the motive of the defendant company in routing it
outside the first State or of the necessity for so doing, and (2), if a
motive to evade the jurisdiction of that State were material, it
was error to lay the burden on the defendant company of disproving it.
178 N. Car. 146, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rush Taggart, With whom Mr. Francis R. Stark,
Mr. Walter E. Daniel, Mr. Charles W. Tillett and Mr.

Thomas C. Guthrie were on the brief, for petitioner.
No brief filed for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought in a state court by the respondent
against the petitioner, the Telegraph Company, to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

cover for mental suffering caused by a mistake in delivering a telegraphic message., The. message handed to the
defendant was "Father ,died -this morning. Funeral
tomorrow, 10:10 a. m.," and was dated January 24. As
delivered to the plaintiff on January 24 it was dated
January 23 and thus caused her to fail to attend the
funeral which otherwise she would have done. The message was from Greenville, North Carolina, to Rosemary
in the same State, and was transmitted from Greenville
through Richmond, Virginia, and Norfolk, to Roanoke
Rapids, -the delivery point for Rosemary. This seems to
have been the route ordinarily used by the Company for
years, and the Company defends on the ground that the
message was sent in interstate commerce, and that therefore a suit could not be maintained for mental suffering
alone. Southern Express Co. v. Byers, 240 U. S. 612. The
jury found that the message was sent out of North Carolina into Virginia for the purpose of fraudulently evading
liability under the law of North Carolina and gave the
plaintiff a verdict. The presiding judge then set the verdict aside "as a matter of law" and ordered a non-suit.
But on appeal the Supreme Court of the State set aside
the non-suit and directed that a judgment be entered on
the verdict.
We are of opinion that the judge presiding at the trial
was right and that the Supreme Court *as wrong. Even
if there had been any duty on the part of the Telegraph
Company to confine the transmission to North Carolina,
it did not do so. The transmission of a message through
two States is interstate commerce as a matter of fact.
Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617.
The fact'must be tested by the actual transaction. Kirmeyer v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 568, 572..
As the line was arranged and had been arranged for
many years, ever since Roanoke Rapids had been an
independent office, Richmond was the relay point from

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. SPEIGHT.
17.

Opinion of the Court.

Greenville to the latter place. The message went through
Weldon, North Carolina, and was telegraphed back from
Richmond, as Weldon business also was. It would have
been possible, physically, to send direct from Weldon but
would have required a rearrangement of the wires and
more operators. ,The course adopted was more convenient
and less expensive for the Company and there was nothing
to show motives except the facts. As things were, the
message was sent in the quickest way. The court below
did not rely primarily upon the finding of the jury as to
the purpose of the arrangement but held that when as
here the termini were in the same State the business was
intrastate unless it was necessary to cross the territory of
another State in order to reach the final point. This, as
we have said, is not the law. It did however lay down
that the burden was on the Company to show that what
was done "was not done to evade the jurisdiction of the
State." If the motive were material, as to which we express no opinion, this again is a mistake. The burden
was on the plaintiff to make out her case. Moreover the
motive would not have made the business intrastate. If
the mode of transmission adopted had been unreasonable
as against the plaintiff, a different question would arise,
but in that case the liability, if it existed, would not be a
liability for an intrastate transaction that never took
place but for the unwarranted conduct and the resulting
loss.

Judgment rever8ed.
MR. JusTICE, PITNEY concurs in the result.

