OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. 254 U. S.

NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE. INSURANCE
COMPANY v. JOHNSON.
NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
MONTPELIER, VERMONT, v. MILLER, ADMINISTRATOR OF JOHNSON.
CERTIFICATES FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 70, 71. Submitted October 22, 192.-Decided November 15, 1920.
A provision m a life insurance policy declaring that the policy shall be
void if within a certain time the insured, while sane or insane, shall
die by his own hand, and a provision making the policy incontestable
after a certain time, are both to be interpreted as implying that
suicide of the insured, sane or insane, after the time specified, shall
not be a defense. P. 102.
The validity of such agreements to pay life insurance, even when
death is due to suicide, if it occur after the lapse of a certain time,
depends upon the state public policy. Where it did not appear in
what State the contracts in question were made, the court upheld
them, which, semble, is in accord with the rule generally prevailing.
P. 100.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George Lines for Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company. Mr. Sam T. Swansen was also on the
brief:
It is undoubtedly the rule of the federal courts, as
assumed, in the question certified, that, where 'a policy of
life insurance is silent respecting liability of the company.
in case of suicide by the insured; death of the insured by
his own hand, he being sane, is not one of the risks insured
against.

Ritter v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 169 U. S. 139;
Hopkins v. Northwestern Life Assurance Co., 94 Fed. Rep.

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. JOHNSON.
96.

97

Argument for Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.

729; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Kelly, 114 Fed. Rep. 268;
Royal Arcanum v. Wishart, 192 Fed. Rep. 453.
So, death at the hands of the law as a punishment for
crime is not one of the risks insured against, whether so
stipulated in the policy or not. Burt v. Union CentralLife
Ins. Co., 187 U. S. 362; Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
McCue, 223 U. S. 234. Nor is death at the hands of the beneficiary, assignee or other person entitled to the proceeds.
New York MutualLife Ins. Co. v. Armstrong, 117 U. S. 591.
The decisions in these cases affirm and are based upon
two fundamental principles: (1)'That it is a condition'of
every policy of life insurance, implied if not expressed,
that neither the insured nor the beneficiary shall do anything to wrongfully accelerate the inaturity of the policy;
and (2) that a contract by which an insurance company agreed to pay the sum stipulated in its policy upon
the happening of either of the contingencies involved in
the cases above cited would be contrary to public policy
and void for that reason. Well-reasoned decisions of
state courts are in harmony with the conclusions reached
in the cases above cited. Supreme Commandery v. Ainsworth; 71 Alabama, 436, 445-447; Hartman v. Keystone
Ins. Co., 21 Pa. St. 466, 479; Security Life Ins. Co. v.
Dillard, 117 Virginia, 401; Dati v. Supreme Council, 195
Massachusetts, 402; Scarborough v. American National
Life Ins. Co., 171 N. Car. 353; Hatch v. Mutual Life Ins.
Co., 120 Massachusetts, 550, 552; Bloom v. FranklinIns.
Co., 97. Indiana, 478; American National Ins. Co. v.
Munson, 202.S. W. Rep. 987.
These authorities establish not only the doctrine
that death of the insured, directly and intentionally caused
by himself when in sound mind, is not a risk intended to
be cove ed by a policy of insurance which is silent respecting suicide, but the further doctrine that such risk is one
which, on grounds of public policy, cannot lawfully be included by express stipulation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.

254 U. S.

But if, as held in the cases above cited, death of the
insured, directly and intentionally caused by himself when
in sound mind, is a risk which could not legally have been
covered during the whole life of the policy, even by express
stipulation to that effect, it is clear that such risk could
not have been so covered during a portion of its life; and
it necessarily follows that a contract to insure against
such risk after two years from the date of the policy cannot be implied from the language quoted in Question One.
Under all the authorities, the doctrine that death of
the insured by his own hand is not a risk insured against
applies only in case the insured was sane at,the time of
taking his life. The object and effect of the quoted clause
is .to extend during the first two years of the policy's life
exclusion of the risk of suicide to cases where the insured
is insane, as well as to those where he is sane at the time
of taking his life. 'Royal Arcanum v. Wiehart, 192 Fed.
Rep. 453, 456; Scarborough v. American National Life
Ins. Co., supra; Collins v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 27
Pa. Super., Ct. Rep. 356; Amercan National Life Ins. Co.
v. Munson, supra; Bromley v. Washington Life Ins. Co.,
122 Kentucky, 407.
It is imna~erial that the beneficiary named in the
policy insuit was the wife of the insured, instead of his
executors or administrators, as in the Ritter Case.
In discussing the first question certified, we have argued
that intentional self-destruction while sane is a risk not
covered by a policy "which makes no provision for death
resulting from suicide," i. e., is silent concerning the same.
If this contention be sound, it necessarily follows that such
a policy is not void, for, in such case, death by suicide being
excluded from the risks covered by the policy, its validity
as a contract respecting the risks included therein is not
in any way affected. This conclusion is not affected by
the fact that the policy contains a provision, that "if
within two years from the date hereof, the said insured

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. JOHNSON.
96.

99

Opinion of the Court.

shall
. .
while sane or insane, die by his own hand,
. . . this policy shall be void." This provision cannot by implication make suicide of the insured while
sane one of the risks insured against, after the expiration
of the two-year period, when an express stipulation to
that effect, being contrary to public policy, would be void.
As the authorities hereinbefore cited show, the purpose
and effect of the two-year provision above quoted is to
further limit, not to enlarge, the risk assumed. We submit, therefore, that Question Two should be answered in
the negative.
If, however, it is deemed that from the provision in the
policy just quoted it is to be implied that death of the insied by suicide, while sane, after the expiration of two
ye~xs from the date of the policy, is one of the risks covered
by it, then we say that under the decisions of this court
and the weight of well-considered authorities elsewhere
the policy is void to that extent.
Mr. George B. Young for National Life Insurance
Company. Mr. E. D. Perry and Mr. Guy B. Horton were
also on the brief.
Mr. S. F. Prouty for Johnson and Miller.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.
These are suits upon policies issued to George P. Johnson upon his life, payable in the first case to his wife, in
the second to his executors or administrators. The wife
and the administrator respectively recovered in the
District Court and the cases having gone to the Circuit
Court of Appeals the latter has certified certain questions
to this Court. The policy payable to the wife contained
a provision that "if within two years from the date hereof,
the said insured shall
.
.
die in consequence of a

.100

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. E

duel, or shall, while sane or insane, die by his own hand,
then, and in every such case, this policy shall be void."
Johnson, the insured, died by his own hand more than two
years after the date of the policy. The first question put
in the wife's suit is whether the above provision, there
being no other in the policy as to suicide, makes the
insurance company liable in the event that happened.
The sec6nd is in substance whether the contract if construed to make the company liable is against public
policy and void.
The policy payable to the administrator had no provision as to suicide but did agree that "This contract shall
be incontestable after one year from the date of its issue,
provided the required premiums are duly paid." Johnson's suicide was more than a year after the date of the
policy. The first question propounded is whether the
above provision prevents the insurer from denying
liability in this case, it not appearing that Johnson was
insane when he killed himself. The second is whether"
such a contract which makes no exception for death
resulting from suicide is against public policy, and therefore void. There is a third as to a possible distinction
between insurance payable to the wife and that payable
to the estate of the insured which will not need to be
discussed.
The public policy with regard to such contracts is a
matter for the States to decide. Whitfield v. X'tna Life
Insurance Co., 205 U. S. 489, 495. This case qualifies the
statement in Riettr v. Mutual Life Insurance Co., 169
U. S. 139, 154, to the effect that insurance on a man's own
life payable to his estate and expressly covering suicide
committed by him when sane would be against public
policy. The point decided was only that when the contract was silent there was an implied exception of such a
death. There was evidence that the insurance was taken
out with intent to commit suicide, and it plainly appeared

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO. v. JOHNSON. 101
96.

Opinion of the Court.

that'the act was done by the insured for the purpose of
enabling his estate to pay his debts. The application,
although excluded below, warranted against suicide within
two years, within which time the death took place. So
that all the circumstances gave moral support to the
construction of the policy adopted by the Court in accordance with the view that has prevailed in some jurisdictions as to the general rule. Ipi Burt v. Union Central
Life Insurance Co., 187 U. S. 362, it was held that there
was a similar tacit:exclusion from the risk assumed of the
death of the insured by execution for murder, and the
same decision was reached in Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. McCue, 223 U. S. 234. But the question
here does not concern implied exceptions, it concerns the
effect of express undertakings which as we have said
depends upon the policy of the State.
The certificates do not disclose in what States these
contracts were made but it is not necessary to postpone
our answer on that account. It appears from Whitfteld
v. Xtna Life Insurdnce Co., supra, that some legislatures
have thought it best to insist that life insurance should
cover suicide unless taken out in contemplation of the
deed. But the case is much stronger when a considerable
time is to elapse before the fact that the death was by the
insured's own hand ceases to be a defence. The danger is
less sinister and probably a good deal smaller than the
danger of murder when the insurance is held by a third
person having no interest in the continuance of the life
insured, yet insurance on the life of a third person does not
become void by assignment to one who has no interest in
the life. Grigsby v. Russell, 222 U. S. 149. When a clause
makes a policy indisputable after one or two years, the
mere evocation of a possible motive for self-slaughter is at
least not more objectionable than the creation of a possible
motive for murder. The object of the clause is plain and
laudable-to create an absolute assurance of the benefit,

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

as free as may be from any dispute of fact except the fact
of death, and as soon as it reasonably can be done. It is
said that the insurance companies now generally issue
policies with such a clause. The state decisions, so far as
we know, have upheld it. Unless it appears that the
State concerned adopts a different attitude we should
uphold it here. Simpson v: Life Insurance Co. of Virginia,
115 N. Car. 393; Mareck v. Mutual R6serve Fund Life
Association, 62 Minnesota, 39; Goodwin v. Provident
Savings Life Assurance Association, 97 Iowa, 226; Patterson v. Natural Premium Mutual Life Insurance Co., 100
Wisconsin, 118.
We are of opinion that the provision in the first mentioned document avoiding the policy if the insured should
die by his own hand within two years from the date is an
inverted expression of the same general intent as that of the
clause in the second making the policy incontestable
after one year, and that both equally mean that suicide
of the insured, insane or sane, after the specified time
shall not be a defence. It seems to us that that would be
the natural interpretation of the words by the people to
whom they are addressed, and that the language of each.
policy makes the company issuing it liable in the event
that happened. We answer the first question in each
certificate, yes. The other questions are disposed of by
our answer to the first.
Answer to question 1 in No. 70, Yes.
Answer to question 1 in No. 71, Yes.
.MR.

cases.

JusTIcE DAY took no part in the decision of these

