OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

JACKSON, RECEIVER OF THE FIRST CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING ASSOCIATION OF GEORGETOWN, D. C. v. SMITH ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 130.

Argued December 17, 1920.-Decided January 24, 1921.

Persons who knowingly join with a receiver in purchasing real estate
at a sale made by the trustee of a deed of trust mortgage securing
a debt due the receivership, are jointly and severally liable to the

receivership for all profits realized from the purchase. P. 588.
48 App. D. C. 565, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. W. Millan for petitioner.
Mr. Louis Addison Dent for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Smith and, Wilson were sued in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia by the receiver of the First
Co-operative Building Association of Geoigetown, D. C.,
for the amount of profits mnde by them and a former
receiver of the Association in the purchase at a foreclosure
sale and subsequent resale of land mortgaged to secure a
note owned by the Association. The Supreme Court held
them liable for the full amount of the profits, $743.68, with
interest and costs. The Court of Appeals of the District
reversed the decree and ordered that the bill be dismissed
with costs. 48 App. D C. 565. A writ of certiorari was
granted by this court. 250 U. S. 655. The question before

JACKSON v. SMITH.
586.

Opinion of the Court.

us is whether the respondents are liable upon the following
facts, and if so in what amount.
In 1908 the Supreme Court of the District appointed
William E. Ambrose, a member of its bar, receiver of the
First Co-operative Building Association of Georgetown,=
D. C. Among the assets of the Association so entrusted
to the receiver was a note of Schwab for $2,700, secured by
a mortgage deed of trust of land. The note being in default, Ambrose as receiver requested the trustee under the
deed of trust to advertise the land for sale at public auction. The auction sale was held and a bid of $350 was
made by Edwin L. Wilson, a member of the bar; but the
trustee withdrew the property from sale because the bid
was inadequate. Thereafter it was arranged between
Wilson, Ambrose, and another lawyer, John Lewis Smith,
who was counsel of the receiver, that the trustee should
again advertise the property for sale; that Wilson should
at the second sale use his own judgment whether to bid
and, if so, what amount; and that, if he should happen to
become the purchaser, the three should be jointly liable for
the purchase price and any expenses incident to the purchase and should be jointly interested in the property purchased. The second sale was duly advertised. Smith and
Ambrose were present, but gave no instructions or directions in regard to the sale either to the trustee or to his
auctioneer. Wilson also attended and in the exercise of
his own judgment and without previous conference with
either Smith or Ambrose bid $491 and became the purchaser of the property. There was no evidence of any
improper influence at the sale to prevent competition or to
close competitive bidding or t6 bring about the sale to
Wilson in preference to any one else. On the contrary it
affirmatively appears that the sale was fairly conducted;
that there was competitive bidding; and that the property.
was finally knocked down to the highest bidder.
Within a few' days after the second sale Wilson and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Smith found, through the aid of real estate agents, a
purchaser named Kite who was willing to pay $1,400 for
the land. In order to convey a good title it was necessary
to clear the land of tax liens and an outstanding tax title.
This required $550-that is, $59 more than Wilson had
bid. He voluntarily raised his bid by that amount. The
land was conveyed by the trustee to Wilson and by Wilson
to Kite, the deeds being recorded simultaneously when
Kite paid the $1,400. Of this amount $652.32 was used to
discharge taxes tax liens and expenses of sale. The
balance, $743.68, was divided equally between Wilson,
Smith and Ambrose individually. Wilson had paid out in
making the purchase no money of his own or theirs. The
estate of which Ambrose was receiver got nothing, as the
amount required to discharge the tax liens exceeded the
amount bid by Wilson. Much later the facts were brought
to the attention of the Supreme Court of the District.
Ambrose resigned as receiver; Jackson was appointed in
his stead; and as receiver brought this suit against Wilson
and Smith to recover the profits which had been made by
them and Ambrose.
Ambrose ad, as receiver, the affirmative duty to endeavor to realize the largest possible amount from the
Schwab note. Baker v. Schofield, 243 U. S. 114; Robertson
v. Chapman, 152 U. S. 673, 681. To this end it was his
duty to endeavor to have the land, when sold under. the
trust deed, bring the largest possible price. J. H. Lane
& Co. v. Maple Cotton Mill, 232 Fed. Rep. 421. When he
agreed with Smith and Wilson to join in the purchase if
Wilson should become the successful bidder, he placed
himself in a position in whichhis personal interests were,
or might be, antagonistic to those-of his trust. Michoud V.
Girod, 4 How. 503, 552. It became to his personal interest
that the purchase should be made by Wilson for thelowest possible price. The course taken was one which a
fiduciary could not legally pursue. Magruder v. Drury,

JACKSON v. SMITH.
586.

Opinion of the Court.

235 U.S. 106, 119, 120. Since he did pursue it and profits
resulted the law made him accountable to the trust estate
for all the profits obtained by him and those who were
associated with him in the matter, although the estate may
not have been injured thereby. Magruder v. Drury, 235
U. S. 106. And others who knowingly join a fiduciary in
such an enterprise likewise become jointly and severally
liable with him for such profits. Emery v. Parrott, 107
Massachusetts, 95, 103; 7inc Carbonate Co. v. First National Bank, 103 Wisconsin, 125, 134; Lomita Land &
Water Co. v. Robinson, 154 California, 36. Wilson and
Smith are therefore jointly and severally liable for all
profits resulting from the purchase; the former although
he had no other relation to the estate; the latter, without
regard to the fact that he was also counsel for the receiver.
It is said that, at a sale made under a mortgage deed of
trust, the duty to obtain the highest possible price rests
not upon the note holder, but upon the trustee under the
deed of trust, and that the creditor may bid at the sale or
refrain from so doing, as he may see fit. Richards v. Holmes,
18 How. 143, 148; Smith v. Black, 115 V. S. 308, 315.
This is true so far as it concerns the duty of the note holder
,to the debtor or other owner of the mortgaged property.
But the many cases cited to this effect in Smith's and
Wilson's behalf do not bear upon the question before us.
Smith and Wilson are held liable for knowingly confederating with one who, as receiver of the estate of the note
holder, owed a duty to it, and who put himself in a position
where, his personal interest conflicted with his duty.
We have considered the many other arguments urged in
defense, but ibid 'in them nothing which should relieve
Smith and Wilson from this liability. The decree of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia is reversed
with costs and that of the Supreme Court of the District
is affirmed.

Revreed.

