NATIONAL BRAKE CO. v. CHRISTENSEN.
423.

425

Syllabus.

at the time, the release was given in good faith, and meant
what it said without equivocation or reserves. It is unnecessary to consider whether the Circuit Court of Appeals were successful in distinguishing Sterling v. Chapin,
185 N. Y. 395, from the present case, on the assumption
that the parties attempted to qualify the release. More
need not be said to show that the decree should be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

NATIONAL BRAKE & ELECTRIC COMPANY v.
CHRISTENSEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 111. Argued December 10, 1920.-='Decided January 3, 1921.
1. When a patent for an invention has been sustained by the Circuit
Court of Appeils and the case has been remanded to the District
Court for an accounting, a party claiming that a subsequent decree
in another circuit should be given effect as res judicata against the
patent should apply by petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
leave to file a bill in the District Court in the nature of a bill of
review, setting up the new matter as a bar to further proceedings.
P. 429.
2. Such applications are addressed to the sound discretion of the
appellate tribunal, and should be decided upon consideration of
the materiality of the new matter and diligence inits presentation.
P. 430.
3. Leave to file such a bill of review may be granted after the judgment of the appellate tribunal and after the going down of its mandate at the close of the term at which judgment was rendered. P. 431.
4. Held, that an application made to the Circuit Court of Appeal3
in this case was an application of that character, and not an application to have the other decree pronounced res judicataby that court.
P. 432.
5. The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals rejecting such an

426

OCTOBER TERM,1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

application is reviewable in this court by certiorari, not by appeal,
since the application is ancillary to the original jurisdiction over the
case, as one arising under the patent laws. P. 432.
258 Fed. Rep. 880, reversed.THE case is stated in the-opinion.
Mr. John S. Miller, with whom Mr. Edward Osgood
Brown, Mr. Paul Synnestvedt and Mr. Charles A. Brown
were on the briefs, for petitioner, contended, inter alia,
that the decree, in Pennsylvania was the first final one,
the Wisconsin decree being merely interlocutory, and
that it was the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
the latter case to give effect to the Pennsylvania decree,by recalling its mandate, setting aside its affirming order
and directing the District Court to vacate its own former
decree and enter one adjudging the patent invalid. They
claimed that the case was one with Hart Steel Co. v. Railroad Supply Co., 244 U. S. 294.
Mr. Joseph B. Cotton and Mr. Louis Quarles, with
whom Mr. William R. Rummler and Mr. Willet M. Spooner
were on the brief, for respondents, contended that the
Wisconsin decrees were final and settled the law of the
•case; that, for various reasons, the rulings in Pennsylvania
were not res judicata, and that there was no application
for the Hart Steel Co. Case,in which the decree set up as res
iudicata was presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals in
a case pending before and as yet undecided by it. A number of other propositions were discussed in both arguments.
Mr. Charles Neave and Mr. Clarence D. Kerr, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amii curia.
MR. JusTcE DAY delivered the opinion of the 'court.
Suit was brought by Christensen and the Allis-Chalmers
Company in the District Court of the United States for

NATIONAL BRAKE CO. v. CHRISTENSEN.
425.

427

Opinion of the Court.

the Eastern District of Wisconsin against the National
Brake & Electric Company for infringement of patent
to Christensen No. 635,280 for improvement in a combined pump and motor. After answer, the petition was
amended so as to setup that Christensen before the issue
of the patent No. 635,280 had obtained a patent for the
same invention under No. 621,324, and that because of
defects the same had been returned to the Commissioner
of Patents, and the new letters issued for the same invention, and that the Commissioner of Patents cancelled
letters patent No. 621,324 and issued letters patent No.
635,280 for the full term of 17 years from October 17, 1899.
In the amended bill it was prayed .that the patent monopoly to Christensen be adjudged to be valid for 17 years
from March 21, 1899, the date of the first patent, and the
second letters patent be held by the court to be evidence
of the grant for the term of 17 years from that date. Answer was filed, testimony taken, and a decree was rendered
in favor of Christensen, the District Court holding that
whether the patent monopoly were evidenced by one
or the other or both of the two letters patent, was immaterial. Appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, where the decree of the
District Court was affirmed (229 Fed. Rep. 564), and
mandate was dly issued to the District Court. After a'
petition for rehearing was denied, an application was
made to this court for a writ of certiorari, which was
denied February 21, 1916. 241 U. S. 659. On the remand
to the District Court a master wvas appointed and an,
accounting begun.
On March 11, 1916, Christensen and 'the Allis-Chalmers
Company filed a bill of complaint against the Westinghouse Traction Brake Company in the District Court
of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Issues were made up, and evidence was taken.
We do not deem it necessary for present purposes to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

recite the history of the litigation in the proceedings in
Pennsylvania. Thereafter, the Brake & Electric Company made application in the District Court in Wisconsin
asking to have the benefit of the decree in Pennsylvania
dismissing the bill by setting up that decree as re8 judicata.
The District Court denied the petition. Afterwards, on
August 19, 1918, the Brake & Electric Company presented
and filed a motion and petition upon which the Circuit
Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, rendered the decree
which is now the subject of review.
The petition alleges that the decree in the Pennsylvania
suit was one presenting the same issues as were presented
and considered in the Wisconsin suit; that the plaintiffs
were the same, and the defendants were in privity; that
in the Pennsylvania suit it was adjudged, in accordance
with the mandate issued by direction of the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Third Circuit that patent No. 635,280
was issued without warrant, and that the bill of complaint
as to that patent should accordingly be dismissed; that
upon further proceedings had in the Court of Appeals in
the Third Circuit and the District Court in Pennsylvania
as to patent No. 621,324 the' bill upon that patent was
dismissed for want of prosecution. A transcript of the
proceedings in the District Court of the United States
for the Western District of Pennsylvania was presented,
and petitioner stated that it was advised that the District,
Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin had no power
or authority without the assent of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit to entertain the motion
or application to set aside or modify the former decree
of such District Court affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, but that the Circuit Court of Appeals had such
jurisdiction and power, and that because of the final adjudication in the District Court for the Western District
of Pennsylvania the suit in the District Court of the
Eastern District of Wisconsin should be dismissed, on the

NATIONAL BRAKE CO. v. CHRISTENSEN.
425.

429

Opinion of the Court.

motion of the petitioner. The petition recited the proceedings in the District Court of Wisconsin, and the fact
that that court was proceeding to take an accounting
under the former decree. The prayer of the petition was
that the Circuit Court of Appeals take jurisdiction of
the petition, and inquire into and determine the status
of the case, and the force and effect of the final judgment
of the District Court of the Western District of Pennsylvania, and hold the same to be a final adjudication, and
that the petitioner was entitled to a final decree in the
suit in Wisconsin dismissing the same for want of equity;
that the District Court be directed to proceed and act
accordingly; and the court was asked to issue such orders
in the premises, and such writ or writs of certiorari or
otherwise as might be necessary or proper, and such further
and different orders, directions, writs or relief as should
seem proper or necessary.
The Circuit Court of Appe4ls for the Seventh Circuit
refused to grant any relief upon the petition, holding that
the decree of the Wisconsin Court was final in its character, notwithstanding it was interlocutory in form, and
that the decree in the Third Circuit could not be set up
as res judicata between the parties. 258 Fed. Rep. 880.
From that decree the writ of certiorari brings the case
to this court.
It thus appears that in a suit upon a patent, and one
subsequently issued alleged to be for the same invention,
Christensen had obtained a decree in the Wisconsin District Court sustaining the right to a patent monopoly
and an accounting. From this decree appeal had been
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit, where the decree was affirmed, and the cause
remanded to the District Court, where the accounting
was in progress. Subsequently Christensen brought the
suit in Pennsylvania upon the patent, rights in controversy which resulted in a decree which, it. is contended,

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

is binding upon Christensen, and res judicata as to the
invalidity of the patent.
In such case the Brake & Electric Company if it wished
to avail itself of the Pennsylvania decree had the right to
apply by petition in the appellate court of the Seventh
Circuit for leave to file a bill in the court of original jurisdiction in the nature of a bill of review, setting up the new
matter as a bar to further proceedings. Such applications
are addressed to the sound discretion of the appellate
tribunal, and should be decided upon considerations
addressed to the materiality of the new matter and diligence in its presentation. Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall.
805; In re Gamewell Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 908; Keith v. Alger,
124 Fed. Rep. 32; Society of Shakers v. Watson, 77 Fed.
Rep. 512.
The matter was considered in In re Potts, 166 U. S.263,
where this court reversed a decree of .the Circuit Court
dismissing a bill upon a patent, holding that the patent
was valid and had been infringed by the defendant, and
remanding the cause to the Circuit Court for further proceedings., It was held that the Circuit Court had no authority to grant or entertain a petition filed without
leave of this court for a rehearing for newly discovered
evidence, and that mandamus Was the proper remedy
to set aside the order of the Circuit Court failing to execute the mandate of this court. The authorities were
reviewed by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court.
Among other things he said: "In this respect, a motion
for a new trial or a petition for a rehearing stands upon
the same ground as a bill of review, as to which Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for this court, in Southard v. Russell,
above cited, said: 'Nor will a bill of review lie in the case
of newly discovered evidence after the publication, or
decree below, where a decision has taken place on an appeal, unless the right is reserved in the decree of the appellate court, or permission be given on an application to

NATIONAL BRAKE CO. v. CHRISTENSEN.
425.

Opinion of the Court.

that court directly for the purpose. This appears to be
the practice of the Court of Chancery and House of Lords,in England; and we think it founded in principles essential
to the proper administration of the law, and to a reasonable
termination of litigation between the parties in chancery
suits.' 16 How. 570, 571. So, in United States v. Knight,
1 Black, 488, 489, Chief Justice Taney said that, in a
case brought before this court exercising general jurisdiction in chancery, 'the defeated party, upon the discovery

of new evidence, may, after a final decree in this court,
obtain leave here to file a bill of review in the court below
to review the judgment which this court had rendered.'"
In In re Pott it was held that unless application was
made to this court within twenty days for leave to file
a petition for a rehearing in the Circuit Court, the writ
of mandamus would issue as prayed.
In Potts & Co. v. Creager, 97 Fed. Rep. 78, 79, it appears
from the statement of subsequent proceedings in the
case that this court upon application granted leave to
file a petition for rehearing in the Circuit Court.
That leave to file a supplemental petition in the nature
of a bill of review may be granted after the judgment of
the appellate court, and after the going down of the mandate at the close of the term at which judgment was
rendered, was held in In re Gamewell Co., 73 Fed. Rep.
908, in a carefully considered opinion rendered by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, reciting
the previous consideration of the question in cases in
this court. We think these cases settle the proper practice in applications of this nature.
This case is unlike the one before us in Hart Steel Co.
v. Railroad Supply Co., 244 U. S. 294, in which it was held
that a decree in a patent infringement suit affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, while
a like decree was pending but not yet heard before the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, upon a,

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

motion seasonably made in the latter Court of Appeals,
should have been held to be re8 judicata because of the
legal identity of the subject-matter and privity of the
parties.
In the instant case the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, treating the application as an original
petition to have the decree made in the Third Circuit
pronounced re8 judicata, held that the former decree in the
Seventh Circuit was final, and denied the prayer of the
petition.
In our view the proper practice in matters of this sort
required the Circuit Court of Appeals to regard the petition, taking all of its allegations together, and with its
prayer for general relief, as an application for leave to
fie in the District Court a petition in the nature of a bill
of review invoking a consideration of the effect of the
judgment in the Third Circuit. Such consideration the
Circuit Court of Appeals may well be directed to undertake in the exercise of its proper function in determining
the rights of the parties, and for that purpose its judgment should be reversed, without passing in this court
upon the merits of the petition. This procedure is sanctioned by former decisions of this court. Lutcher & Moore
Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. *.257; Cramp & Sons Co. v.
Curtis8 Turbine Co., 228 U. S. 646; Brown v. Fletcher, 237
U. S. 583.
A motion was made to dismiss the writ of certiorari
upon the ground that this case is one in which an appeal
might have been had. But we are of opinion that in view
of the nature of the application, and the status of the case
brought for infringement of the patents in question, the
proceeding was not of that character in which an appeal
would lie to this court. We held in Macfadden v. United
State8, 213 U. S. 288, that the line of division between
cases appealable from the Circuit Court of Appeals and
those made final in that court was determined by the

SULLIVAN v. KIDD.

425.

Syllabus.

source of original jurisdiction of the trial court, and not
by the nature of the questions of law raised or decided.
In our view the petition filed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals was ancillary to the original jurisdiction invoked,
and was still in its essence and nature a suit involving
the validity of a patent, which is-expressly made final in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, subject to the right of this
court to review by writ of certiorari.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed, and the case remanded to that
court for further proceedings upon the petition filed by
the National Brake & Electric Company in conformity
with the opinion of this court.
Reversed.

SULLIVAN ET AL. v. KIDP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 65. Argued April 27, 1920; restored to docket for oral argument
May 17, 1920; reargued December 10, 1920.-Decided January .3,
1921.
1. In the absence of a controlling treaty, the capacity of an alien to
inherit land within a State of the Union depends upon the law of
that State. P. 435.
2. Treaties are to be interpreted upon the same principles as written
contracts between individuals, all parts being considered with a
view to giving a fair operation to the whole; and they are to be
executed-in the utmost good faith to effectuate the purposes of the
high contracting parties. P. 439.
3. The Treaty of March 2, 1899, between Great Britain and the
United States, grants the subjects of each party certain rights of
inheritance respecting real property within the territories of the
other, but declares (Art. IV) that its stipulations shall not be
applicable to any of the colonies or foreign possessions of the British

