OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

sumed the loss of their own volition they should not be
permitted to pass it on to the carrier merely because of
its technical failure to take up the bill of lading. The
delivery was made to one in possession of the bill of lading
who could, and doubtless would, have surrendered it, had
he not been prevented by distance from doing so. To
hold a carrier liable under such circumstances would
seriously interfere with the convenience and the practice
of business.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES did not take part in the consideration and decision of this case.

LOUIE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 337. Argued December 8, 1920.-Decided January 17, 1921.
Upon an indictment of an Indian for the murder of another Indian
within the limits of an Indian Reservation (Crim. Code, §§ 273, 328),
an objection that the District Court has no jurisdiction over
person or subject-matter because the defendant had been declared
competent and because the act charged was committed on land
which had been allotted and deeded to him in fee simple, really
goes, not to the jurisdiction, but to the merits, raising the question
whether the act was a violation of the federal !aw; and the judgment
of the District Court is not reviewable by direct writ of error from
this court, but should go to the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 550.
Clairmont v. United Staje, 225 U. S. 551, explained.
Reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

LOUIE v. UNITED STATES.

548.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William B. McFarland, with whom Mr. Robert
Early McFarlandwas on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. C. Herron, with whom The Solicitor General and
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTCE BANDEas delivered the opinion of the
court.
Louie, an Indian, was indicted under § 273 of the Penal
Code in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Idaho, Northern Division, for the murder of
another Indian within the limits of the Coeur d'Alene
Reservation. A motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction
was overruled and the defendant was tried and convicted.
By motion in arrest of judgment, he objected in terms to
the jurisdiction of the court over the person of defendant
and over the crime charged on the ground that before
the time of the alleged crime he had been declared competent and the land on which the crime was alleged to
have been committed had been allotted and deeded to
him in fee simple. Compare United States v. Celestine,
215 U. S. 278. This motion also was overruled; the defendant, was sentenced; and the case was taken on writ of
error to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. That court, one judge dissenting,
dismissed the writ of error for want of jurisdiction on the
ground that, since the sole question presented was whether
the District Court had jurisdiction, its decision could be
reviewed only by direct writ of error from this court to
the District Court. See United States v. Jahn, 155 U. S.
109, 114, 115; compare Raton Water Works Co. v. City of
Raton, 249 U. S. 552. The dissenting judge was of opinion
that the Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction of the
writ of error, because an additional error relating to the
merits had been assigned there, although not raised below.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

A writ of certiorari was granted by this court. 253 U. S.
482.
We have no occasion to consider the question on which
the Circuit Court of Appeals divided. The motions made
by defendant in the District Court raised a question not
of the jurisdiction of that court, but of the jurisdiction of
the United States. The contkntion was, in essence, that,
by reason of the facts set forth in the motions, the defendant was in respect to the acts complained of subject to
the laws of the State of Idaho and not to the laws of the
United States. In other words that he did not violate
the laws of the United States. Compare United States v.
Kiya, 126 Fed. Rep. 879, 880. Section 328 of the Penal
Code provides that an Indian committing murder on
another Indian "within the boundaries of any State of
the United States, and within the limits of any Indian
reservation, shall be subject to the same penalties as are
all other persons committing" the same crime "within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States." United
States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375; Donnelly v. United States,
228 U. S. 243, 269, 270. The defendant, in effect, denied
that the killing was, in the statutory sense, within the
reservation. If this was true an essential element of the
crime against the United States was lacking; as much so
as if it had been established in United States v. Sutton,
215 U. S. 291, or in United States v. Soldana, 246 U. S.
530, that the region into which liquor was introduced was
not Indian country. That the District Court for Idaho
had jurisdiction to determine whether the locus in quo
was a part of the reservation was not questioned. By
§ 78 of the Judicial Code the whole State of Idaho is comprised 'within the District of Idaho; by paragraph second
of § 24 district courts have original jurisdiction of all
crimes and offanses cognizable under the authority of the
United States; and the defendant was arrested within the
District of Idaho.

LOUIE v. UNITED STATES.
548

551

Opinion of the Court.

Since defendant's motions in the District Court did not
raise a question properly of the jurisdiction of the court
but went to the merits; there was no basis for a direct
writ of error from this court. Prohovost v. United States,
232 U. S. 487; Lamar v. United States, 240 U. S. 60, 65.
He properly sought review in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278, and United
States v. Pelican, 232 U. S. 442, where the defense was
similar to that presented here, and in- United States v.
Sutton, supra, and United States v. Soldana, supra, the
cases came to this court by direct writ of error to the
District Court under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246. Hallowell v. United States,
221 U. S. 317, where a similar question was involved,
came here on certificate. In Clairmont v. United States,
225 U. S. 551, 554, it was inadvertently assumed without
discussion that the question involved was one of the
jurisdiction of the District Court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
THE CmiEF Jusmci took no part in the decision of this
case.

