GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
300."

Syllabus.

impossibility of complying with the statute, that is, of
utilizing the heat of natural gas to the extent of the words
of the statute. We say to the extent of the words of the
statute because we think the statute must be construed
with reference to the facts of nature and their possibilities,
and that all that was intended by the words employed was
to require a practical and possible use of the heat, as in
other fuels and by the existing instrumentalities, and if
this should be done it was a legal use of the gas-was an
application and utilization of the heat contained in it.
The statute was, only intended to prevent the selection of
a product whose production tended, and according to
some of the affidavits, whose inevitable effect was, to
exhaust the supply of gas in a very little while.
The decree granting the interlocutory injunction is
reversed, and the case remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE; MR. JUSTICE VAN DEvANTE-%and
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissent.

GILBERT v. STATE OF MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 79. Argued November 10, 1920.-Decided December 13, 1920.
1. The law of Minnesota declaring it a misdemeanor for any person to

teach or advocate by any written or printed matter or by oral speech
that citizens of the State should not aid or assist the United States in

prosecuting or carrying on war with the public enemies of the United
States, is valid under the Federal Constitution. P. 327.
2. Such an enactment may be upheld both as a legitimate measure of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

co6peration by the State with the United States, not in conflict with
the federal war power, p. 328; and also as an exercise of the police
power to preserve the peace of the State. P. 331. HaUtrv. Nebraska,

205 U. S. 34; Presserv. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252.
3. The right of free speech does not cover false and malicious misrepresentations of the objects and motives of this country in entering upon
a war, made in,
a public speech for the purpose of discouraging the
recruiting of troops, while the war is flagrant and armies are being
raised. P. 332.
141 Minnesota, 263, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Nordlinand Mr. FredericA. Pike for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. James E. Markham, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Minnesota, with whom Mr. Clifford L. Hilton,
Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, was on the
briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JusncE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

A statute of Minnesota makes it unlawful "to interfere
with or discourage the enlistment of men in, the military
or naval forces of the United States or of the State of
Minnesota."
Its second and third sections are as follows:
"Sec. 2. Speaking by word of mouth against enlistment unlawful.-It shall be unlawful for any person in
any public place, or at any meeting where more than five
persons are assembled, to advocate or teach by word of
mouth or otherwise that men should not enlist in the military or naval forces of the United States or the state of
Minnesota.
"Sec. 3. Teaching or advocating by written or printed
matters against enlistment unlawful.-It shall be un-

GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
325.

Opinion of the Court.

lawful for any person to teach or advocate by any
written or printed matter whatsoever, or by oral
speech, that the citizens of this state should not aid or
assist the United States in prosecuting or carrying on war
with the public enemies of the United States"
Section 4 defines a citizen to be-"'any person within the
confines of the state," and §,5 declares violations of the
act to be gross misdemeanors and punishable by fine and
imprisonment.,.
Theindictment charged'that Gilbert at a tine and place
designated in the State, and under the conditions prohibited
by § 2, the United States being then and there at war with
the Kingdom and Imperial Government of Germany, u'ed
the following language: "
'"We are going over to Europe to make the world safe
for democracy, but tell you we had better make America,
safe for democracy first.: You say, what is the matter with
our democracy. I'tell'you what is the matter With it:
Have you had anything to'say as to who should be president? Have you had anything to say as to who should be
Governor of this'state? Have you hadl anything -tosay as
to whether we would go into -this war? . You know you
have not. If this issuch greatdemocracy, for Heaven's
sake why should we noi vote on conscription of men. We
Were stampeded into- this war by newspaper rot to pull
England's chestnuts ot of the fire-for her. I tell you if
they conscripted wealth like they have conscripted men,
this war would not last over forty-eight hours. .
'A demurrer to the indictment was overruled, and Gilbert
was tried ari cbnvicted. 'The judgment was that he pay a
fine of $500 and be imprisoned in .the county jail of the
County of'Goodhue for one year, and tray the costs of the
prosecution. The judgent was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State.
The statute, itis contende, is repugnant to tile Constitutioi of the United States in that, (1) "all power of legis-

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

lation regarding the subject matter contained in the statute is conferred upon Congress and withheld from the
States." -(2) And that the statute is obnoxious to the
"inherent right of free speech respecting the concerns,
activities and interests of the United States of America
and its Government."
We shall consider the objections in their order. It is said
in support of the exclusive power in Congress, that Congress alone can under the Constitution "'provide for the
common defence and general welfare of the United States,'
'declare war,' 'raise and support armies,' 'make rules
for the government and regulation of the land and naval
forces."' To these affirmative delegations of power to
Congress, there is added, it is said, a prohibition to the
States to "engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in
such imminent danger as will not admit of delay." And,
"that the State of Minnesota is not a party to the war'
now [then] being waged. And if it has not engaged in any
war, and until it does so engage, legislation such as a belligerent sovereign might enact, is beyond its province."
These specific grounds of objection to the statute are
attempted to be reinforced by analogy to the power of
Congress over interstate commerce to the exclusion of
the interference of the States.
The bases of the objections seem to be that plaintiff in
error had an accountability as a citizen of the United
States different from that which he had as a citizen of the
State, and thattherefore, he was not subject to the power
or jurisdiction of the State' .exercised in* the act under
review. Manifestly, to support the contention something
more is necessary than the letter of the cited constitutional
provisions. The broader proposition- must be established
that a State h9s no interest or concern in the United States
or its armies or power of protecting them from public
enemies.
Undoubtedly, the United States can declare war and it,

. GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
325.

Opinion of the Court.

not the States, has the power to raise and maintain armies.
But there are other considerations. The United States is
composed of the States, the States are constituted of the
citizens of the United States, who also -are citizens of'the
.States, and it is from these citizens that .armies are raised
and wars waged, and whether to victory and its benefits,
or to defeat and its calamities, the States as well as the
United States are intimately concerned.- And whether to
victory or defeat depends upon their morale, the spirit and
determination that animates them-whether it is repellent.
and adverse or eager and militant; and td maintain it
eager and militant against attempts at its debasement in
aid of the enemies of the United States,, is a service of*
patriotism; and. from the contention that it encroaches
upon oi usurps any power of Congress, there is an instinctive and immediate revolt. Cold and technical reasoning
in its minute consideration may indeed insist on a separation of the sovereignties and resistance in each to any cooperation from the other, but there is opposing demonstration in the fact that -this country is one composgd of many
and must on occasions be animated as one and that the
constituted and constituting sovereignties must have
power of cobperation against the enemies of all. Of such
instance, we think, is the statute of Minnesota and it goes*
no farther. It, therefore, has none of the character of the
illustrations adduced against it, nor the possibility of conflict of powers which they condemn., This was the view of
the Supreme Court of the State, and the court expressed it
with detail and force of reasoning. The same view of the
statute was expressed in State v.'Holvm 139 Minnesota, 267,
where after full discussion, the contention was rejected
that the Espionage Law, of June 15, 1917, abrogated or
superseded the statute, the court declaring that the fact
that the citizens of the State'are also citizens of theUnited
States and owe a duty to the Nation, does not absolve
them from duty to the State nor preclude'a State from
.L

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

enforcing such duty. "The same act," it was said, "may
be an offense or transgression of the laws of both" Nation
and State, and both may punish it without a conflict of
their sovereignties. Numerous cases were cited commencing with Moore v. Illinois, 14 How. 13, and terminating,
with Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34.V
The latter case-is especially pertinent in. its sentiment
and reasoning. It sustained'a statute of Nebraska directed
against the debasement of the National flag to trade uses
against the contention that the flag being the National
was "subject only to the control of the National
power. In sustaining the statute it was recognized that in
a degradation t the flag there is a degradation of all of
which it is the symbol, that is, "the National power and
')National honor" and what they represent and have in
trust. To maintain and reverence these, to "encourage
patriotism and love of country among its people,' may
be affirmed, it was said, to be a duty that rests upon each
State, and that, "when, by its legislation, the State encourages a feeling of patriotism towards the Nation,
it neoessarily encourages a like feeling towards the
State."
And so with the statute of Minnesota. An army is an
instrument of government, a necessity of its power and
honor, and it may-be, of its security. An army, of course,
can only be raised and directed by Congress, in neither has
-emblem

InGusdafson v. Rhinow, 144 Minnesota, 415, the Supreme Court of
Minnesota sustained a. law of the state giving to soldiers who served in
the war against Germany *15 for each month or fraction of a month of

service, against an attack that the soldiers were soldiers of the United
States. -The court expressed the concern and interest of the State as
follows: ." is true that the Federal government alone has power to
declare war, but having done so, the government and people of innesota became bound to defend and support the national government.
While the states of the nation are sovereign in a certain field, they are
also members of the family of stateaponstituting the national organization."

GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
325.

Opinion of the Court.

the State power, but it has power to regulate the conduct
of its citizens and to restrain the exertion of baleful
influences against the promptings of patriotic duty to the
detriment of the welfare of the Nation and State. To do so
is not to usurp a National power, it is only to render a
service to its people, as Nebraska rendered a service to
its people when it inhibited the debasement of the
flag.
We concu, therefore, in the final conclusion of the court,
that the State is not inhibited from making" the national
purposes its own purposes to the extent of exerting its
police power to prevent its own citizens from obstructing
the accomplishment of such purposes."
The statute, indeed, may be supported as a simple
exertion of the police power to preserve the peace of the
State. As counsel for the State say, "The act under
consideration does not relate to the raising of armies for the
national defense, nor to rules and regulations for the
government of those under arms. It is simply a local
police measure, aimed tc suppress a species of seditious
speechwhich the legislature of the State has found objectionable. If the legislature has otherwise power to prohibit
dtterances of the character of those here complained of,.
the fact that such suppression has some contributory
effect on the federal function of raising armies is quite
beside the question." And the State knew the conditions
which existed and could have a solicitude for the public
peace, and this record justifies it. Gilbert's remarks were
made in uk public meeting. They were resented by his
auditors. There were protesting interruptions, also accusations and threats against him, disorder and intimations of violence. And such is not an uncommon experience. On such occasions feeling usually runs high
and is impetuous; there is a prompting to violence and
when violence is once yielded to, before it can be quelled,
tragedies may be enacted. To preclude such result or a

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

danger of it is a proper exercise. of the power of the State.
Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252, 267..
The next contention is, that the statute is violative of
the right of free speech, and therefore void. It is asserted
that the right of free speech is a natural and inherent right,
and that it, and the freedom of the press, were "regarded
as among the most sacred and vital possessed by mankind,
when this natiop was born, when its constitution was
framed and adopted." And the contention seems necessary for the p!aiitiff in error to support.' But without so
deciding or considering the freedom asserted as guaranteed or secured either by the Constitution of the United
States or by the constitution of the State, we pass immediately t. the contention and for the purposes of this case
may concede it, that is, concede that the asserted freedom
is natural and inherent, but it is not absolute, it is subject
to restriction and limitation. And this we have decided.
In Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52, we distinguished times and occasions and said that "the most
stringent protection of free speech would not protect a
man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre and causing a
panic"; and in Frohwerk v. United States, 249 U. S. 204,
206, we said "that the First Amendment while prohibiting
legislation against free speech as such cannot have been,
and obviously wa4 not, intended to give immunity for
every possible use of language." See also, Debs v. United
Stata, 249 U. S. 211; Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S.
•616. In Schaefer v. United States, 251 U. S. 466, commenting on those cases and their contentions it was said that
the curious spectacle was presented of the Constitution of
the United States being invoked to justify the activities of
anarchy or of the enemies of the United States, and by a
strange perversion of its precepts it was adduced against
itself. And we did more than reject the contention, we
forestalled all repetitions of it, and the contention in the
case at bar is a repetition of it. It is a direct assault upon

GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
325.

Opinion of the Court.

the statute of Minnesota, and a direct assertion in spite of
the prohibition of the statute that one can by speech,
teach or advocate that the citizens of the State should
not aid or assist "the United States in prosecuting or
carrying on war with the public enemies of the United
States," and be protected by the Constitution of the
United States.
The same conditions existed as in the cited cases, that is,
a condition of war and its emergency existed, and there
was explicit limitation to § 3 in the charge of the trial court
to the jury. The court read §§ 2 and 3 of the statute to
the jury and said, "I take it from the reading of the whole
indictment that it is prosecuted under Section 3, which I
have just read to you."
Gilbert's speech had the purpose they denounce. The
Nation was at war with Germany, armies were recruiting,
and the speech was the discouragement of that-its purpose was necessarily the discouragement of that. It was
not an advocacy of policies or a censure of actions that a
citizen had the 'ight to make. The war was flagrant; ithad been declared by the power constituted by the Constitution to declare it, and in the manner provided for by
the Constitution. It was not declared in aggression, but
in defense, in defense of our national honor, in vindication
of the "most sacred rights of our Nation and our people."'
This was known to Gilbert for he was informed in affairs
and the operations of the Government, and every word
that he uttered in denunciation of the war was false, was
deliberate misrepresentation of the motives which impelled
it, and the objects for which it was prosecuted. He could
have had no purpose other than that of which he was
charged. It would be a travesty on the constitutional
privilege he invokes to assign him its protection.
Judgment affirmed.
'Words of President Wilson in his War Message to Congress, April 2,
1917.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIs,

J., dissenting.

254 U. 8.

MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs concurs in the result.
THE CMEF JUSTICE, being of the opinion that the subject-matter is within the exclusive legislative power of
Congress, when exerted, and that the action of Congress
has occupied the whole field, therefore dissents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

dissenting.

Joseph Gilbert, manager of the organization department of the Non-partisan League, was sentenced to fine
and imprisonment for speaking on August 18, 1917, at a
public meeting of the League, words held to be prohibited
by c. 463 of the laws of Minnesota, approved April 20,
1917. Gilbert was a citizen of the United States, and
apparently of a State other than Minnesota. He claimed
seasonably'that the statute violated rights guaranteed
to him by the Federal Constitution. This claim has been
denied; and, in my opinion, erroneously.
The Minnesota statute was enacted during the World
War; but it is not a war measure. The statute is said to
have been enacted by the State under its police power to
preserve the peace ;--but it is in fact an act to prevent
teaching that the. abolition of war is possible. Unlike the
Federal Espionage Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217,
219, it applies equally whether the United States is at
peace or at war. It abridges freedom of speech and of the
press, not in a particular emergency, in order to avert a
clear -and present danger, but under all circumstances.
The restriction imposed relates to the teaching of the doctrine of pacifism and the legislature in effect proscribes it
for all time. The statute does iiot in terms prohibit the
teaching of the doctrine. Itsprohibition is-more specie
and is.directed against the teaching of certain applications
of it. This specification operates, as will be seen, rather to
extend, than to limit the scope of the prohibition.

GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
325.

BRANDEis,

J., dissenting.

Sections 1 and 2 prohibit teaching or advocating by
printed matter, writing or word of mouth, that men
should not enlist in the military or naval forces of the
United States. The prohibition is made to apply whatever the motive, the intention, or the purpose of him who
teaches. It applies alike to the preacher in the pulpit, theprofessor at the university, the speaker at a political
meeting, the lecturer at a society or club gathering. Whatever -the nature of the meeting and whether it be public or
private, the prohibition is absolute, if five persons are
assembled. The reason given by the speaker for advising
against enlistment is immaterial. Young men considering
whether they should enter these services as a means of
earning a livelihood or as a career, may not be told that, in
the opinion of the speaker, they can serve their country
and themselves better by entering the civil service of State
or Nation, or by studying for one of the professions, or by
engaging in the transportation' service, or in farming or in
business, or by becoming a workman in some productive
industry. Although conditions may exist in the Army or
the Navy which are undermining efficiency, which tend to
demoralize those who enter the service and would render
futile their best efforts, the State forbids citizens of the
United States to advocate that men should not enlist
until existing abuses or defects are remedied. The prohibition imposed by the Minnesota statute has no'relation to
existing needs or desires of the Government. It applies
..although recruiting is neither in process nor in contemplation. For the statute aims to prevent not acts but beliefs.
The prohibition imposed by § 3 is even more far-reaching
than that provided in §§ 1 and 2. Section 3 makes it
punishable to teach in any place a single person that a
citizen should not aid in carrying on a war, no matter what
the relation of the parties may be. Thus the statute
invades the privacy and freedom of the home. Fathe and
mother may not follow the promptings of religious belief,

-

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

254 U. S.

of conscience or of conviction, and teach son or daughter
the doctrine of pacifism. If they do any police officer may
summarily arrest them.
That such a law is inconsistent with the conceptions of
liberty hitherto-prevailing seems clear. But.it is said that
the guaranty against abridging freedom of speech contained in the First Amendment of the Federal Constitution
applies only to federal action; that the legislation here
complained of is that of a State; that the validity of the
statute has been sustained by its highest court as a police
measure; that the matter is one of state concern; and that,
consequently this court cannot interfere. But the. matter
is not one merely of state concern. The state law affects
directly the functions of the Federal Government. It
affects rights, privileges and immunities, of one who is a
citizen of the United States; and it deprives him of an
important part of his liberty. These are.rights which are
guaranteed protection by the Federal Constitution; and
they are invaded by the satute in question.
Congress has the exclusive power to legislate concerning
the Army and the Navy of, the United States, and to
determine, among other things, the conditions of enlistment. It has likewise exclusive power to declare war, to
determine to what extent citizens shall aid in its prosecution and how effective aid may best be secured. Congress,
which has power to raise an army and- naval forces by
conscription when public safety-demands, may, to avert a
clear and present danger, prohibit interference :by persuasion with the process of either compulsory or voluntary
enlistment. As an incident of its power to declare War it
may, when the public safety demands, require from every,
citizen full support, and may, to avert a clear and present
danger, prohibit interference by persuasion with the giving
of such support. But Congress might conclude that the
most effective Army or Navy would be one composed
wholly of men who had enlisted with full appreciation of

GILBERT v. MINNEBOTA.
325.

BRmm.rS, J., dissenting.

the limitations and obligations which the service imposes,
and in the face of efforts to discourage their doing so. I It
might conclude that the most effective Army would be one
composed exclusively of men who are firmly convinced
that war is sometimes necessary if honor is to be preserved,
and also that the particular war in which they are engaged
is a just one. Congress, legislating for a people justly
proud of liberties theretofore enjoyed and suspicious or
resentful of any interference with them, might conclude
that even in times of grave danger, the most effective
means of securing support from the great body of citizens is
to accord to all full freedom to criticise the acts and administration of their country; although such freedom may be
used by a few to urge upon their fellow-citizens not to aid
the Government in carrying on a war, which reason or
faith tells them is wrong and will, therefore, bring misery
upon their country.
The right to speak freely concerning functions of the
Federal Government is a privilege or immunity of every
citizen of the United States which, even before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, a State was powerless
to curtail. It was held in Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35,
44, that the United States has the power to call to the seat
of government or elsewhere any citizen to aid it in the conduct of public affairs; that every citizen has the correlative
right to go there or anywhere in the pursuit of public or
private business; and that "no power can exist in a State
to obstruct this right 'which would not enable it to defeat
the purpose for which the government was established."
The right of a citizen of the United States to take part, for
his own or the country's benefit, in the making of federal
laws and in the conduct of the Government, necessarily
includes the right to speak or write about them; to endeavor to make his own opinion concerning laws existing
1See General John A. Logan, "The Volunteer Soldier of America,"
pp. 89-91; Col. F. N. Maude in the Contemporary Review, v. 189, p. 37.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

254 U. S.

or contemplated prevail; and, to this end, to teach the
truth as he sees it. Were this not so "the right of the
people peaceably to assemble for the purpose of petitioning
Congress for a redress of grievances, or for any thing else
connected with the powers or duties of the national
government" would be a right totally without substance.
See United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552;
Slaughter-HouseCases, 16 Wall. 36, 79. Full and free exercise of this right by the citizan is ordinarily also his duty;
for its exercise is more important to the Nation than it is
to 'himself. Like the course of the heavenly bodies, harmony in national life is a resultant of the struggle between
contending forces. In frank expression of conflicting opinion lies the greatest promise of wisdom in governmental
action; and in suppression lies ordinarily the greatest peril.
There are times when those charged with the responsibility
of Government, faced with clear and present danger, may
conclude that suppression of divergent opinion is imperative; because the emergency does not permit reliance upon
the slower conquest of error by truth. And in such emergencies the power to suppress exists. But the responsibility for the maintenance of the Army and Navy, for the
conduct of war and for the preservation of government,
both state and federal, from "malice domestic and foreign
levy" rests upon Congress. It is true that the States
have the power of self-preservation inherent in any government to suppress insurrection and repel invasion; and to
that end they may maintain such a force of militia as
Congress may prescribe and arm. Houston v. Moore,
5 Wheat. 1. But the duty of preserving the state governments falls ultimately upon the Federal Government,
Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 77; Prize Cases, 2 Black, 635,
668; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 727. And the superior
responsibility carries with it the superior right. The
States act only under the express direction of Congress.
See National Defence Act, June 3, 1916, c. 134, 39 Stat.

GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
325.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

166; Selective Service Act, May 18, 1917, c. 15, 40 Stat.
76. The fact that they may stimulate and encourage recruiting, just as they may stimulate and encourage interstate commerce, Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312, 329, does not give them the power by
police regulations or otherwise to exceed the authority
expressly granted to them by the Federal Government.
See Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487; Prigg v. Pennsylvania,
16 Pet. 539. Congress, being charged with responsibility for those functions of Government, must determine
whether a paramount interest of the Nation demands that
free discussion in relation to them should be curtailed. No
State may trench upon its province.
Prior to the passage of the Minnesota statute it had
been the established policy of the United States, departed
from only once in the life of the Nation,1 to raise its
military and naval forces in times of war as in peace exclusively by voluntary enlistment. Service was deemed a
privilege of Americans, not a duty exacted by law. Specific provision had been made to ensure that enlistment
should be the result of free, informed and deliberate
choice.' The law of the United States left an American as
'Act of March 3, 1863, c. 75, 12 Stat. 731.
2 Recruiting officers were required to explain to every man before he
signed the enlistment paper the nature of the service, the length of the
term, the amount of pay, clothing, rations and other allowances to
which a soldier is entitled by law; and to read and explain to the applicant many of the Articles of War before administering to him the oath
of enlistment. U. S. Army Regulations, 1913, paragraphs 854, 856.
The following is contained in the instructions sent to all officers and
men assigned to recruiting duty:
"All progress and success rests fundamentally on truth. Hence never
resort to indirection or misrepresentation or suppression of part of the
facts in order to push a wavering case over the line. Recruits signed up
on misrepresented facts or partial information do not make good soldiers. They resent beingfooled just as you would, and wilnever yield
their full value to a Government whose agents obtained their services
in a way not fully square. Therefore tell your prospect anything he

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

254 U. S.

free to advise his fellows not to enter the Army or the
Navy as he was free to recommend their enlistment. The
Government had exacted from American citizens no service except the prompt payment of taxes. Although war
had been declared such was still the policy and the law of
the United States when Minnesota enacted the statute

here in question.
The Minnesota statute was, when enacted, inconsistent
with the law of the United States, because at that time
Congress still peruiitted free discussion of these governmental functions. Later, and before Gilbert spoke the
words complained of, the Federal Espionage Law was
enacted, but the Minnesota statute was also inconsistent
with it. The federal act did not prohibit the teaching of
any doctrine; it prohibited only certain tangible obstructions to the conduct of the existing war with the German
Empire committed with criminal intent. It was so understood and administered by the Department of Justice.1
Under the Minnesota law, teaching or advice that men,
wants to know about the Army. If the real facts are not strong enough
to win him, you don't want him anyway." Recruiters ,Handbook,
United States Army, p. 16.
I "The general policy of the Attorney General (Mr. Gregory) toward
free speech has been well understood and adhered to by his subordinates
with a good deal of consistency. From the outset, recognizing that free
expression of public opinion is the life of the nation, we have endeavored
to impress on our subordinates the necessity of keeping within the limits
of policy established by Congress and bearing in mind at all times the
cd.nstitutional- guarantees. Repeatedly their attention has been called
to the fact that expression of private or public opinion relating to
matters of governmental policy or of political character must not be
confused with wilful attempts to interfere with our conduct of the war.
At all times we have had before us the dangers which follow attempts to

restrain public discussion and so far as instructions issued by the Attorney General have been concerned, they have consistently and at all
times emphasized this general policy." John Lord O'Brian, "Civil
Liberty in War Time," Report of New York State Bar Association,
vol. 42, p. 308.

GILBERT v. MINNESOTA.
325.

BEANDNIS,

J., dissenting.

should. not enlist is made punishable although the jury
should find (1) that the teaching or advocacy proved
wholly futile -and no obstruction resulted; (2) that there
was no intent to obstruct; and the court, taking judicia:!
notice of facts, should rule (3) that, when the words were
written or spoken, the United States was at peace with all
the world. That this conffidt was not merely a technical
one but a cause of real embarrassment and danger to the
Federal Government, we learn from one of the officials
entrusted with the administration of the Espionage
Act:
"In the State of Minnesota because of what was claimed
t'o be either inadequate federal law or inadequate federal
administration, state laws of a sweeping character were
passed and enforced with- severity. Whether justified or
not in adopting this policy of repression, the result of its
adoption increased discontent and the most serious cases of
alleged interference with civil liberty were reported to the
federal government from that state." '
In Johnson v. Maryland, ante, 51, this court held that
the power of Congress to establish post roads precluded
the State from requiring of a post-office employee using
the state highway in the transportation of mail the customary evidence of competency to drive a motor truck, although the danger to public safety was obvious and it did.
not appear that the Federal Government had undertaken
to deal with the matter by statute or regulation. The
prohibition of state action rests, as the court pointed out
there, "not upon any consideration of degree but upon the
entire absence of power on the part of the States to touch
. the instrumentalities of the United States." As
exclusive power over enlistments in the Army and the Navy
of the United States and the responsibility for the conduct
of war is vested by the Federal Constitution in Congress,
Report of New York Bar As.ociation, vol. 42, p. 296.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BaRnDzws, J., dissenting.

254 U. S.

legislation by a State on this subject is necessarily void
unless authorized by Congress. It is so when Congress
makes no regulation, because by omitting to make regulations Congress signifies its intention that, in this respect,
the action of the citizen shall be untrammelled. This
would be true, even if the subject in question were one over
which Congress and the States have concurrent power.
For where Congress has occupied a field theretofore open
also to state legislation, it necessarily excludes all such.
Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S.424; Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Hardwick FarmersElevator Co.,
226 U. S. 426. Here Congress not only had exclusive
power to act on the subject; it had exercised that power
directly by the Espionage Law before Gilbert spoke the
words for which he was sentenced. The provisions of the
Minnesota statute and its title preclude a contention
that its purpose was to prevent breaches of the peace:
Compare Ex parte Meckeli 220 S.W. Rep. (Tex.) 81. But
neither the fact that it was a police regulation, New York
Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, nor the fact
that it was legislation in aid of congressional action would,
if true, save the statute. For "when the United States
has exercised its exclusive powers ....
so far as to
take possession of the field, the States can no more supplement its requirements than they can annul them." Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 250
U. S. 566, 569; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Washington,
222 U. S. 370. The exclusiveness of. the power of the
Federal Government with which this state legislation
interferes springs from the very roots of political sovereignty. The States may not punish treason against the
United States, People v. Lynch, 11 Johns. (N. Y.) 549;
Ex pare Quarrier,2 W. Va. 569; although indirectly acts
of treason may affect them vitally. No more may they
arrogate to themselves authority to punish the teaching
of pacifism which the legislature of Minnesota appears

HALL v. PAYNE.
325.

Syllabus.

to have put into that category. Compare Schaefer v.
United States, 251 U. S. 466, 494, note.
As the Minnesota statute is in my opinion invalid because it interferes with federal functions and with the right
of a citizen of the United States to discuss them, I see no
occasion to consider whether it violates also the Fourteenth Amendment. But I have difficulty in believing
that the liberty guaranteed by the Constitution, which has
been held to protect against state denial the right of an
employer to discriminate against a workman because he is
a member of a trade union, Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S.
1, the right of a business man to conduct a private employment agency, Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590, or to contract outside the State for insurance of his property,
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589, although the
legislature deems it inimical to the public welfare, does not
include liberty to teach, either in the privacy of the home
or publicly, the doctrine of pacifism; so long, at least, as
Congress has not declared that the public safety demands
its suppression. I cannot believe that the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment includes only liberty
to acquire and to enjoy property.

UNITED STATES ON THE RELATION OF HALL v.
PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 95.

Argued November '17, 1920.-Decided December 13, 1920.

Whether a homestead right zan be initiated by filing an application
while the land is reserved to give opportunity'for lieu selections by a
State, under the Act of 1894, 28 Stat. 394, is a question involving a

