HARRIS v. BELL.
Syllabus.

HARRIS, FORMERLY FRANCIS, ET AL. v. BELL
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51. Argued January 26, 1920.-Decided November 15, 1920.
1. Lands representing the distributive share of a Creek Indian who
died after his enrollment and before their selection or allotment and
which thereafter were selected, allotted and deeded in his name,
pursuant to theAct of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, § 5, 34 Stat. 137, and
earlier statutes, are to be considered as going to hig heirs, not as a
direct allotment to them but as an inheritance, the alienability of
which by full bloods is determined, not by § 10 of the Act of 1906 or
§ 1 of the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, respecting
allotments to living alfottees, but by the provisions governing
alienability by heirs. P. 108.
2. In this regard it is not the usual distinctions between title by purchase and title by descent that must control, but the letter and spirit
of the acts of Congress. Id.
3. The power vested in the Secretary of the Interior by the Act of
April 26, 1906, supra, to approve or disapprove conveyances of inherited allotments when made by adult full-blood Indian heirs, was
not recalled by the Act of May 27, 1908, supra,as to conveyances
made, though not approved, before its enactment, nor does the lapse
of 2Y2 years between the deed and its approval affect the validity
of the conveyance in the absence of any lawful intervening disposal.
P. 109.
4. The provision in § 9 of the Act of May 27, 1908, supra, that no
conveyance of any interest of any full-blood Indian heir shall be valid
"unless approved by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement
of the estate" of the deceased allottee, prescribes a rule for future
conveyances. P. 110.
5. Section 6 of the Act of May 27, 1908, supra, which subjects the persons and property of minor allottees to the jurisdiction of the probate
courts of the State of Oklahoma, does not include or affect inherited
lands, in its provision that "no restricted lands of living minors
shall be sold or encumbered, except by leases authorized by law,
by order of the court or otherwise." Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

6. Section 6 of the Act of May 27, 1908, supra,and other acts of Congress, explicitly subject the persons and property of Indian minors of
the Five Civilized Tribes to the jurisdiction of the probate (county)
courts of Oklahoma; § 9 of that act declares that the death of any
allottee shall remove all restrictions upon the alienation of his land,
with the proviso that no conveyance of any interest of any full-blood
Indian heir in such land shall be valid "unless approved by the court
having jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of said deceased
allottee." Held, harmonizing the sections, that the proviso of § 9
is to be taken as referring only to adult full-blood heirs, and that
a probate court having jurisdiction over the persons and property
of minor full-blood heirs, but not of the settlement of the estate of
the deceased allottee from Whom they inherited, was the proper
court to sanction a conveyance of the allotment made by their
guardian. P. 111.
7. The general rule giving to the court of guardianship exclusive power
to direct the guardian and supervise the management and disposal
of the ward's property, obtains in Oklahoma, and an intention to
depart from it in an act of Congress respecting the lands of minor
full-7blood Indians should not be accepted unless very clearly and
explicitly evinced. P. 112.
250 Fed. Rep. 209, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James C. Davis for appellants.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker also filed a brief on behalf of appellants.
Mr. William M. Matthews, with whom Mr. George S.

Ramsey was on the brief, for appellees.

MR' JusTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
By this suit certain conveyances of lands allotted in
the name and right of a Creek Indian after his death were
assailed, and their cancellation sought, by the heirs who

HARRIS v. BELL.
103.

Opinion of the Court.

made them. On the final hearing the District Court'upheld two of the conveyances, 235 Fed. Rep. 626, and that
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 250
Fed. Rep. 209. The present appeal is by, the heirs.
The circumstances to be considered are as follows: By
the Act of March 1, 1901, c. 676, 31 Stat. 861, as modified
by the Act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat. 500, provision was made for the allotment and distribution of the
Creek tribal lands and funds among the members of the
tribe. An enrollment was to be made of (a) all members
living on April 1, 1899, -(b) all children born to members
after that date up to and including July 1, 1900, and
living on the latter date, and ;(c) all children born to
members after July 1, 1900, up to and including May 25,
1901, and living on the latter date. All who were so
enrolled were to share in the allotment and distribution.
If any of these died before receiving his allotment and.
distributive share, the lands and moneys to which he
"would be entitled if living" were to "descend to his
heirs" and be "allotted and distributed to them accordingly." A provision in the Act of March 3, 1905, plainly
intended. to amend and supplement the earlier acts,
authorized the inclusion of all children born between
May 25, 1901, and March 4, 1905, and living on the latter
date, c. 1479, 33 Stat. 1071.
Originally all lands allotted to living members in their
own right were subjected to specified restrictions on
alienation; but those allotted in the right of deceased
members were left unrestricted up to the passage of the
Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876; 34 Stat. 137. Skelton v.
Dill, 235 U. S. 206; Adki s v. Arnold, 235U. S. 417, 420;
Mullen y. United States, 224 U. S. 448; Brader v. James,
246 U. S. 88, 94; Talley v. Burgess, 246 U. S. 104, 107.
Section 19 of that act materially revised the restrictions
respecting lands of living allottees, and § 22 dealt with the
alienation of inherited lands, including, as this court has

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

held, lands allotted in the name and right of a member
after his death. Talley v. Burgess, supra, p. 108. Section
22 read as follows:
"That the adult heirs of any deceased Indian of either
of the -Five 'Civilized Tribes whose selection has been
made, or to whom a deed or patent has been issued for
his or her share of the land of the tribe to which he or she
belongs or belonged, may sell and convey the lands
inherited from such decedent; and if there be both adult
and minor heirs of such decedent, then such minors may
join in a sale of such lands by a guardian dulyappointed
by the proper United States court for the Indian Territory. And in case of the organization of a State or Territory, then by a proper court of the county in which said
minor or minors may reside or in which said real estate is
situated, upon an order of such court made upon petition
filed by guardian. All conveyances made under this provision by heirs who are full-blood Indians are to be subject
to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under
such rules and regulations as he may prescribe."
Section 5 of the same act directed that all patents or
tribal deeds for allotments should issue "inthe name of
the allottee "--meaning the member in whose right the
allotment was made-and provided that if he were then
dead the title should inure to and vest in "his heirs," as if
the patent or deed "had issued to the allottee during his
life." A like provision is found in § 32 of the Act of June
25, 1910, c. 431, 36 Stat. 855.
Further provisions bearing on the alienation of lands
of living allottees-and also inherited lands were embodied
in the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, to be
noticed presently.
The lands in question were allotted in the name and
right of Freeland Francis, a Creek child who was born in
1903, was lawfully enrolled June 10, 1905, and died"
twelve days later. After his death the allotment was

HARRIS v. BELL.
103.

Opinion of the Court.

duly selected and made by the Commission to the Five
Civilized Tribes, and in regular course a patent or deed
was issued in his name. His heirs, to whom the title
passed under the statutes already noticed, were his
mother, Annie Francis (now Harris), his half-brother,
Mack Francis, his brother, Amos, and his sister, Elizabeth. These were .all enrolled Creeks,-three being fullblood Indians and one a half-blood.
January 15, 1908, after the allotment was perfected,
the mother, who was an adult, sold and conveyed her
interest, and that conveyance was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior, July 6, 1910, the approval as
endorsed on the deed reading:
"The conveyance by Annie Francis of her interest as
full-blood Indian heir in and to the within described lands
allotted to Freeland Francis, a new born Creek citizen,
Roll No. 1070, who died prior to May 27, 1908, is hereby
approved, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of
Congress approved April 26, 1906."
The half-brother, Mack, sold and conveyed his interest
in 1910, after he attained his majority, but the validity of
that transaction is not questioned. He was not a fullblood Indian, but a half-blood.
Janual:y 15, 1912, the interest of Amos bnd Elizabeth,
who were minors, was sold and conveyed by their guardian
under the direction and approving order of the county
court wherein the guardianship of their persons and property was pending.
At the time of Freeland's death the family was residing
in that part of the Indian Territory which on the advent
of statehood (November 16, 1907) became Wagoner
County, and shortly after his death they removed to and
ever since have resided in what became Okmulgee County.
The lands are in the latter county and it was in the county
court thereof that the guardian's sale and conveyance
were directed and approved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

The conveyance by the mother, who was a full-blood
Indian, and that by the guardian of Amos and Elizabeth,
who were full-bloods, are the ones to be considered on this
appeal. All rights under them are held by parties who,
were defendants in the District Court and are appellees
here.
The grounds on which the conveyances are assailed are
four in number,-one directed at both conveyances, one
at that of the mother alone and two solely at that of the
guardian. They will be taken up in this order. '
1. It is urged that the heirs took the lands as allottees
and not as heirs of Freeland,-in other words, that they.
received the lands as a direct allotment to them and not
as an inheritance,-and therefore that such of them as
were full-blood Indians were restrained and disabled from
disposing of the lands by reason of the restrictions applicable to living allottees of the full-blood. If the premise
were right, the conclusion would be unavoidable. See
§ 19, Act of 1906, supra, and § 1, Act of 1908, supra. But
the premise is not right, as is shown by statutes already
mentioned, such as. § 28 of the Act of 1901, § 7 of the Act
of 1902 and § 5 of the Act of 1906. The allotment was
made in virtue of the right of Freeland, who was one of
those among whom the tribal property was to be distributed. Under the statutes that right was not extinguished
by his death but was preserved for his heirs; and it was.
-preserved for them because they were:his heirs, and not
because their relation to it was otherwise different from
that of other members of the tribe. Such individual
claims
as they had to the tribal lands were to be satisfied
by their
individual allotments. What they were
to receive in the right of Freeland was the lands and moneys to
which "he would be entitled if living"; and these were to
"descend" to and vest in them as "his heirs," as if he had
received the same "during his' life." Putting aside the
distinctions between title by purchase and title by descent

HARRIS v. BELL.
103.

Opinion of the Court.

which prevail in the absence of controlling statutes, and
giving effect to the letter and spirit of what Congress has
enacted, we think it is manifest that these heirs must be
regarded as having received these lands as an inheritance
from Freeland, and not as a direct allotment to them.
Perryman v. Woodward, 238 U. S. 148, 150; Talley v.
Burges8, supra.
2. The first restrictions applicable to Creek lands such
as these were embodied in § 22 of the Act of 1906, hereinbefore set forth. As respects the mother's conveyance,
which was executed January 15, 1908, all that was necessary under that section to make the conveyance effectivethe mother being an adult full-blood Indian-was that
it be approved by the Secretary of the Interior. As before
shown, it was approved by that officer July 6, 1910. But
it is urged that before his approval was given all power to
approve had been taken from him and lodged elsewhere
by the Act of May 27, 1908. Evidently the Secretary
did not so construe that act when his approval was given,
else he would have withheld it. Not only so, but his
action in this instance was in accord with the practice of
his office for a considerable period and also with an opinion
rendered to him by the Attorney General. 27 Ops. A. G.
530. This administrative view is, of course, entitled to
respect, and those who have relied thereon ought not
lightly to be put in peril. But it is not controlling. We
have examined the act, including § 9, upon which reliance
is had, and are of opinion that as to conveyances made
prior to the act the power of the Secretary to examine
and approve or disapprove under § 22 of the prior enactment was not taken away. The act contains no express
revocation of that power, nor any provision inconsistent
with its continued exeicise as to prior conveyances. The
provision in § 9, that no conveyance of any interest of
any full-blood Indian heir shall be valid" unless approved
by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

estate"', of the deceased allottee, taken according to its
natural import, prescribes a rule for future rather than
prior conveyances; and no reason is perceived for rejecting
its natural import. Had there been a purpose to cut off
action by the Secretary as to conveyances already made,
some of which were before him at the time, it is but
reasonable to believe that other words aptly expressing
that purpose would have been used. The matter hardly
would have been left to conjecture or uncertain implication. Besides, the absence of such a purpose is measurably
reflected by the declaration in § 1 that "the Secretary of
the Interior shall not be prohibited by this Act from continuing to remove restrictions as heretofore." The lapse
of two and one-half years between the execution of the
conveyance and its approval is not material, there being
no lawful intervening disposal. Pickering v. Lomax, 145
U. S. 310; Lykins v. McGrath, 184 U. S.169.
3. Section 6 of the Act of 1908 subjects the persons and:
property of minor allottees to the jurisdiction of the
probate courts of the State, and in a proviso says, "no
restricted lands of living minors shall be sold or encumbered, except by leases authorized by law, by order of the
court or otherwise." One ground on which the guardian's
sale on behalf of the minor heirs, Amos and Elizabeth,
is assailed is that it was in violation of this proviso. But
in our opinion the proviso does not include .or affect
inherited lands. It refers, as a survey of the act shows,
to lands of living minor allottees and not to lands inherited
from deceased allottees. Section 9 expressly recognizes
that the latter may be sold, and this proviso cannot be
taken as prescribing the contrary. The word "living"
evidently is intended to mark the distinction. What is
intended is to make sure that minor allottees receive the
benefit of the restrictions prescribed in § 1, and not to
irapose others. Apparently it was apprehended that the
gqneral language of § 6 might be taken as enabling probate

HARRIS v. BELL.
103.

Opinion of the Court.

courts and guardians to sell without regard to those
restrictions, and the office of the proviso is to prevent this.
So understood, it is in accord with the general scheme of
the act and not in conflict with any other provision.
4. The remaining objection to the guardian's conveyance is that it was not approved by the court having
jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of Freeland, the
deceased allottee.
The situation out of which the objection arises is at
least novel. Freeland died June 22, 1905, and the conveyance was made January 15, 1912. Statehood had
intervened and counties had been organized where there
were none before. He resided and died in what afterwards became Wagoner County, and under the local
law the county court of that county is the one which at
the time of the conveyance would have had jurisdiction
of the settlement of his estate. The court in the Indian
Territory which would have had such jurisdiction prior
to itatehood was no longer in existence. The conveyance
was not approved by the county court of Wagoner County,
but was approved by the counter court of Okmulgee
County, which under the local law was the only court
having jurisdiction of the guardianship of the persons and
property of the minors, Amos and Elizabeth. The lands
were in that county and the minors, as also the other
heirs, were residing there.
Section 6 of the Act of 1908 and other congressional
enactments explicitly subject the persons and property of
Indian minors of the Five Civilized Tribes to the jurisdiction of the probate courts of Oklahoma. In that State
the county courts are the probate courts.
Section 9 of the same act declares:
"That the death of any allottee of the Five. Civilized
Tribes shall operate to remove all restrictions upon the
alienation of said allottee's land: Provided, That no conveyance of any interest of any. full-blood Indian heir in

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

such land shall be valid unless approved by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of said
deceased allottee."
If in this instance the same court had had jurisdiction
of the guardianship of the minor heirs and of the settlement of the estate of the deceased allottee, no embarrassment would have ensued; but as that was not the case, the
question aises, whether it was essential that the guardian's
conveyance, directed and approved, as it was, by the
court having control of the guardianship, should also be
approved by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement of the deceased allottee's estate? The Circuit
Court of Appeals answered in the negative; and, while
the question is not free from difficulty, we think that
solution of it is right.
Of course, the purpose in requiring any approval is to
safeguard the interests of the full-blood Indian heir.
Where he is a minor he can convey only through a guardian, and no court is in a better situation to appreciate and
safeguard his interests than the one wherein the guardianship is pending. Besides, as a general rule, a guardianship
carries with it exclusive power to direct the guardian and
to supervise the management and disposal of the ward's
property. It is so in Oklahoma. This rule is so widely
recognized and so well grounded in reason that a purpose to
depart from it ought not to be assumed unless manifested
by some very clear or explicit provision. The Act of
1908 contains no manifestation of such a purpose outside
the proviso in § 9. That proviso seems broad, but so is
the provision in § 6 subjecting the persons and property
of minor Indians to local guardianship. As both are in
the same act, they evidently were intended to operate
harmoniously and should be construed accordingly. The
proviso does not mention minors under guardianship;
and to regard its general words as including them will
either take all supervision of the sale of their interest in

UNDERWOOD T'WRITER CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.

113

Syllabus.

103.

inherited lands from the court in which the guardianship
is pending, or subject that court's action to the approval
of another court of the same rank. In either event conflict and confusion will almost certainly ensue and be
detrimental to the minor heirs. But, if the proviso be
regarded, as well it may, as referring to heirs not under
guardianship-in other words, to adult heirs-the two
provisions will operate in entire harmony and all fullblood heirs will receive the measure of protection intended.
We think this is the true construction.

Decree affirmed.

UNDERWOOD
TYPEWRITER
COMPANY
v.
CHAMBERLAIN, TREASURER OF THE STATE
OF CONNECTICUT.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPERIOR COURT
CONNECTICUT.

OF

THE

STATE OF

-No. 215. Argued October 13, 14, 1920.-Decided November 15, 1920.
1. A state tax upon the proportion of the net profits of a sister-state
corporation earned by operations conducted within the taxing State,
the enforcement of which is left to the ordinary means of collecting taxes, does not violate Art. I, § 8, of the Federal Constitution
by imposing a burden upon interstate commerce. P. 119.
2. In considering whether a state tax, purporting to be on the net income of a sister-state cwrporation earned within the taxing State, violates the Fourteenth Amendment by reaching income earned outside,
it is not necessary to decide whether it is a direct tax on income or
an excise measured by income. P. 120.
3. A state tax upon the income of a sister-state corporation manufacturimg its product within the State but deriving the greater
part of its receipts from sales outside the State, which attributes
to processes eonducted within.,the State the proportion of the total
net income Which the value of real and tangible personal property

