CASES ADJUDGED
Mq TIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

PIEDMONT & GEORGES CREEK COAL COMPANY v. SEABOARD FISHERIES COMPANY,
CLAIMANT, &c.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 58. Argued March 16, 17, 1920.-Decided October 11, 1920.
An oil company, owner of a fleet of fishing steamers and also of oil
factories where the catch was delivered and the vessels coaled,
having mortgaged this property and being without money or credit,
made an agreement with a coal dealer to' furnish the coal necessary for the season's operations, both parties understanding that the
coal would be used by the factories as well as by the vessels, that
the greater part would be used by the vessels, that the law would afford a lien on the vessels for the purchase price and that the coal
dealer would thus have security. The coal was billed and delivered directly to the oil company, title jassing with delivery;
it was then stored by that company in its factories, and afterwards appropriated by it mainly to the vessels but partly to
the factories, as occasion arose; and there was no understanding when the contract was made or at times of delivery that
any part of it was for any particular, vessel or for the vessels
then composing the fleet. In libels of some of the vessels involving the coal dealer's rights as against a purchaser under the
prior mortgage, held: (1) That the coal dealer had no maritime

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Petitioner.
lien for furnishing supplies "to a vessel

.

.

254 U. S.
.

upon the order of

the owner," under the Act of June 23, 1910, c. 373, ยง 1, 36 Stat. 604,
because the coal furnished the vessels was furnished by their owner
and not by the coal dealer, p. 6, et seq.; (2) That the fact that
such maritime use had been contemplated did not render the sub-'
sequent appropriation by the owner a furnishing by the coal dealer
to the several vessels, p. 8; nor (3) was the understanding of the
owner and the dealer that the law would afford a lien of any legal '
significance as against the purchaser under the mortgage. P. 10.
To hold that a maritime lien for the unpaid purchase price of supplies
arises in favor of-the seller merely because the purchaser, who is
the owner of a vessel, subsequently appropriates the supplies to her
use, would involve abandonment of the principle upon which maritime liens rest and the substitution therefor of the very different
principle which underlies mechanics' and materialmen's liens on
houses and other structures. P. 8.
253 Fed. Rep. 20, affirmed.
THE case is st~ated in the opinion.
Mr. John M. Woolsey, with whom Mr. Frank Healy,
Mr. F. C. Nicodemus, Jr., and Mr. H. Brua Campbell
were on tie brief, for petitioner:
Is the petitioner to be deprived of its lien and its decrees undermined for the benefit of the purchaser of the
vessels at foreclosure sale, who acquired the vessels with
full knowledge of the facts, merely for the reason that the
petitioner did not do the impossible and indicate in advance of the delivery of the coal at the oil corporation's
bins the name of each vessel to be supplied with coal and
the amount to be appropriated to her?
It is urged that such a construction is out of line with
previous well-considered judicial decisions and so limits
the act of Congress that it is wholly unavailable as a
source of credit to ship owners operating fleets of vessels.
The Act of June 23, 1910, affords a maritime lien for
supplies furnished to a vessel, and where coal is delivered
to the owner of a fleet of vessels for distribution among
them, upon an express stipulation that the delivery is

PIEDMONT COAL CO. v. SEABOARD FISHERIES CO. 3
1.

Argument for Petitioner.

made upon the credit of the vessels and not upon the credit
of the owner, a lien attaches to each vessel for the coal
actually distributed to and used by it.
The case of the petitioner is one of unusual hardship.
It parted with its coal solely upon the security of the
lien given by the act of Congress. The coal was actually
delivered to and used by the libeled vessels to the amount
for which the lien was allowed against each of them. By
the use of the petitioner's coal the vessels were kept in
operation, contributing earnings to the oil corporation
and its creditors, including the claimant herein, which
under foreclosure proceedings, purchased the libeled
vessels with knowledge that the petitioner asserted a
maritime lien against them for coal unpaid for although
actually delivered to, and used by, the vessels.
A maritime lien under such conditions is sustained by
the weight of authority both prior to and subsequent
to the passage of the Act of June 23, 1910. The Yankee,
233 Fed. Rep. 919; Berwind-White Coal Co. v. Metropolitan S. S. Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 782; 173 Fed. Rep. 471 (materialman's lien); The Kiersage, 2 Curtis, 421 (materialman's lien); The Cora P. White, 243 Fed. Rep. 246 (where
the claim of maritime lien was denied only because the
coal was furnished the owner without mentioning that
it was intended for use on a vessel); The Murphy Tugs,
28 Fed. Rep. 429 (maritime lien); McRae v. Bowers Dredging Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 344 (maritime lien); The Grapeshot,
9 Wall. 129, 145; The Lulu, 10 Wall. 192, 204.
While it is true that certain of the above decisions were
rendered under state statutes, we fail to perceive, in view
of the wording of the lien act, any substantial basis for
distinguishing them or questioning their authority.
Especial reliance is placed upon the decision in The
Kiersage, 2 Curtis, 421. The Maine statute involved in
that case allowed a lien for supplies "furnished to or for
account of a vessel."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Petitioner.

254 U. S.

The lien act was intended to increase the security of
persons furnishing supplies to vessels, not to narrow or
circumscribe it, and hence should have an enlightened
construction to meet modem needs.
It is not necessary in order to impress a maritime lien
on a vessel that the supplies be actually delivered on board
the vessel by the person who supplies them. Ammon v.
The Vigilancia, 58 Fed. Rep. 698; Delaware & Hudson
Canal Co. v. The Alida, 7 Fed. Cas. 399; The James H.
Prentice, 36 Fed. Rep. 777.
It is settled that an owner may by agreement, express
or implied, create a maritime lien on his vessel for supplies furnished. The Kalorama,10 Wall. 208; The Cimbria,
214 Fed. Rep. 128; The Alaskan, 227 Fed. Rep. 594;
The George Dumois, 68 Fed. Rep. 926; The Fortuna, 213
Fed. Rep. 284; The South Coast, 247 Fed. Rep. 84.
Agreements for a general lien such as was here shown
have frequently had judicial approval, and the fact that
the supplies have been first charged to the owner on the
supplier's books has been held immaterial. The Patapsco,
1871, 13 Wall. 329; Lower Coast Transportation Co. v.
Gulf Refining Co., 211 Fed. Rep. 336; Freights of The
Kate, 63 Fed. Rep. 707; The Advance, 72 Fed. Rep. 793;
Astor Trust Co. v. White & Co., 241 Fed. Rep. 57.
As between the owner of a vessel, who agrees to give
a maritime lien for money or supplies, and the person
furnishing the money or supplies on the credit of the vessel,
the owner is estopped to deny that the money or supplies
were actually used for the vessel. The Worthington, 133
Fed. Rep. 725; The Schooner Mary Chilton, 4 Fed. Rep.
847; The Robert Dollar, 115 Fed. Rep. 218; United Hydraulic Cotton Press v. Alexander McNeil, Fed. Cas.
14,404; The Mary, 1 Paine, 671.
Mr. Philip L. Miller, with whom Mr. Royall Victor
was on the brief, for respondent.

PIEDMONT COAL CO. v. SEABOARD FISHERIES CO. 5
1.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEus delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Atlantic Phosphate and Oil Corporation owned a
fleet of nineteen fishing steamers. It owned also factories
at Promised Land, Long Island, and Tiverton, Rhode
Island, to which the fish caught were delivered and at
which its vessels coaled. When the fishing season of 1914
opened the company was financially embarrassed. Its
steamers and factories had been mortgaged to secure an
issue of bonds. Bills for supplies theretofore furnished
remained unpaid. The company had neither money nor
credit. It could not enter upon the season's operations
unless some arrangement should be made to supply its
vessels and factories with coal. After some negotiations,
the Piedmont and Georges Creek Coal Company, then a
creditor for coal delivered during the year 1913, agreed
to furnish the Oil Corporation such coal as it would require during the season of 1914-the understanding of the
parties being that the coal to be delivered would be used
by the factories as well as by the vessels, that the greater
part would be used by the vessels, that the law would
afford a lien on the vessels for the purchase price of the
coal and that the Coal Company would thus have security.
Shipments of coal were made under this agreement from
time to time during the spring and summer as ordered
by the Oil Corporation. In the autumn receivers for the
corporation were appointed by the District Court of the
United States for the District of Rhode Island, and later
a suit was brought to foreclose the mortgage upon the
vessels and factories. At the time the receivers were
appointed five cargoes of coal shipped under the above
agreement had not been paid for. The Coal Company
libeled twelve of the steamers asserting maritime liens
for the price and value of either all the coal or of such
parts as had been used by the libeled vessels respectively.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Meanwhile, the vessels were sold under the decree of foreclosure. The Seaboard Fisheries Company became the
purchaser and, intervening as claimant in the lien proceedings, denied liability. The District Court held that
the Coal Company had a maritime lien on each vessel
for the coal received by it. The William B. Murray, 240
Fed. Rep. 147. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
these decrees with costs and directed that the libels be
dismissed. The Walter Adams, 253 Fed. Rep. 20. Then
this court granted the Coal Company's petition for a
writ of certiorari. 248 U. S. 556.
As to the facts proved there .is no disagreement between
the two lower courts. The substantial question presented is whether these facts constitute a furnishing of
supplies by the Coal Company to the vessels upon order
of the owner within the provisions of the Act of June 23,
1910, c. 373, ยง 1, 36 Stat. 604.1 That coal was furnished
to the vessels to the extent to which they severally received it on board, is clear., The precise question, therefore, is: Was the coal furnished by the libelant, the Coal
Company, or was-it furnished by the Oil Corporation, the
owner of the fleet? In determining this question additional
facts must be 'considered:
No coal was delivered by the Coal Company directly
to any vessel; and it had no dealings of any kind concerning the coal directly with the officers of any vessel. All
the coal was billed by the Coal Company to the Oil Corporation, and there was no reference on any invoice, or
on its books, either to the fleet or to any vessel. There
'Act of June 23, 1910, c. '373, ยง 1: Any persou furnis!ing repdirs,
supplies, or other necessaries, including th; use ot ,diy docli or marine
railway, to a vessel, wlether foreign or domestic, upon the order of the
owner or owners of such vessel, or of a person by him or them authorized, shall have i. maritime lienlon the vessel which may be enforced
by a proceeding in rem, and it shall n6t be necessary to allege or prove
that credit was given to the vessel.
I

PIEDMONT COAL CO. v. SEABOARD FISHERIES CO. 7
1.

Opinion of the Court.

was no understanding between the companies when the
agreement to supply the coal was made or when the coal
was delivered that any part of it was specifically for any
one of the several vessels libeled, or that it was for any
particular vessel of the fleet, or even for the vessels then
composing the fleet. Indeed, the first shipment was
stated on the invoice to be "coal for factory." The negotiations of the Oil Corporation with the Coal Company
did not relate to coal required at that time by the particular vessels subsequently libeled as distinguished from
other vessels of the fleet.
The coal was sold f. o. b. at the Coal Company's piers
which were at St. George, Staten Island, and Port Reading, New Jersey. At these piers it was loaded on barges
which were towed either to 'the Oil Corporation's plant
at Promised Land or to'that at Tiverton. Some of these
barges were supplied by the Oil Corporation, some by the
Coal Company. If supplied by the latter, trimming
and towing charges were added to the agreed prize of the
coal. Upon arrival of the coal at the factories it was
placed in the Oil Corporation's bins. At Promised Landwhich received four of the five shipments-the bins already
contained other coal (1068 tons) which had been theretofore purchased by the Oil Corporation and had been
paid for. With this coal on hand that delivered by libelant
was commingled. At each plant both the vessels and the
factory were from time to time supplied with coal from
the same bins; but the greater part of the coal supplied
from each plant was used by the vessels. Weeks, and in
some instances months, elapsed between placing the coal
in the bins and the delivery of it by the Corporation to
the several vessels. When it made such deliveries it
furnished coal to the vessels, as it did to the factories,
not under direction of the Coal Company but in its discretion as owner of the coal and of the business.
The quantity of coal delivered to each vessel was

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Olinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

proved; but to what extent the coal supplied to the several
vessels which bunkered at Promised Land came from the
1068 tons previously purchased, and to what extent it
came from the lots purchased from the Coal Company,
it was impossible to determine. In making the computations which formed the basis of the decrees in the District
Court, it was assumed that, of the coal supplied to the
several vessels which bunkered at Promised Land, a
proportionate part of that received by each had come from
the coal purchased from libelant.
The Coal Company contends on these facts that it
furnished necessary supplies to the several vessels within
the meaning of ยง 1 of the Act of June 23, 1910. But the
facts show that no coal was furnished by that company
to any vessel "upon the order of the owner." The title
to the coal had passed to the Oil Corporation when it
was loaded on board the barges- at the Coal Company's,
piers. It was delivered to Promised Land and Tiverton
as the ,Oil Corporation's qoal anl placed in its bins. As
its coal the later distribution was made in its discretion
to vessels and factories. A large part of the coal so acquired by the Oil Corporation for use in its business was
subsequently appropriated by it specifically to the use
of the several vessels of the fleet and this use of the
coal by vessels of the fleet was a use whioh had been
contemplated by the- parties when it was purchased.
But the fact that such a use had been contemplated
does not render the subsequent appropriation by the
ovner a furnishing by the. coal dealer to the several
vessels.
To hold that a lien for the unpaid purchase price of"
supplies arises in favor of the seller merely'because the
purchaser,, who is the owner of a vessel, subsequently
appropriates the'supplies to her use would involve abandonment of the-principle upon which maritime liens rest
and the substitution therefor of the very different prin-

PIEDMONT COAL CO. v. SEABOARD FISHERIES CO. 9
1.

Opinion of the Court.

ciple which underlies mechanics' and materialmen's liens
on houses and other'structures. The former had its origin
in desire to protect the ship; the latter mainly in desire
to protect those who furnish work and materials. The
maritime lien developed as a necessary incident of the
operation of vessels. The ship's function is to move from
place to place. She is peculiarly subject to vicissitudes
which would compel abandonment of vessel or voyage,
unless repairs and supplies were promptly furnished.
Since she is usually absent from the home port, remote
from the residence of her owners and without any large
amount of money, it is essential that she should be selfreliant-that she should be able to obtain upon her own
account needed repairs and supplies. The recognition
by the law of such inherent power did not involve any
new legal conception, since the ship had been treated
in other connections as an entity capable of entering into
relations With others, of acting independently and' of
becoming responsible for her acts. Because 'the ship's
need was the sour6e of the maritime lien it could arise
only if the repairs or supplies were necessary; if the pledge
of her credit was necessary to the obtaining of them; if
they were actually obtained; and if they were furnished
upon her credit. The mechanic's and materialman's
lien, on the other hand, attaches ordinarily although the
labor and material cannot be said to have been necessary;
although at the time they were furnished there was no
thought of obtaining security upon the building; and
although the credit of the owner or of others had in fat
been relied upon. The principle upon which the mechanic's lien rests is, in a sense, that of unjust enrichment.
Ordinarily, it is the equity arising from assumed enhancement in value resulting from work or materials expended,
upon the property without payment therefor which is
laid hold of to piotect workmen and. others who, it is
assumed, are especially deserving, Would ordinarily fail

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

to provide by agreement for their own protection and
would often be unable to do so.'
The fact found by the lower courts that the parties
understood the law would afford a lien on the vessels for
the coal is, in this controversy, without legal significance.
If the coal had been furnished to the several vessels by
the libelant, 'maritime liens would have arisen and could
have been established under the statute without proof
that credit was given to the vessels. Since the libelant
did not furnish any coal to the vessels, the erroneous belief
of the parties that the law would afford a lien either for
all the coal furnished to the Oil Corporation or for that
delivered by it to the several vessels could not create a
lien under the statute. Clearly no maritime lien could
arise therefrom valid as against the claimant which had
acquired title to the vessels uider a mortgage antedating
the purchase. Astor Trust Co. v. E. V. White & Co., 241
Fed. Rep. 57.
The difficulty which confronts the Coal Company
does not lie in the fact that the contract for the coal was
made with the Oil Corporation. A vessel may be made
liable in rem for supplies, although the owner can be
made liable therefor in personam; since the dealer may
rely upon the credit of both. The Bronx, 246 Fed. Rep.
809. Likewise, the fact that the coal which was supplied
to the several vessels had been purchased under a single
contract presents no difficulty. For while one vessel of a
fleet cannot be made liable under the statute for supplies
furnished to the others, even if the supplies are furnished
to all upon orders of the owner under. a single contract,
The Columbus, 65 Fed. Rep. 430; 67 Fed. Rep. 553; The
'Compare Van Stone v. Stilwell & Bierce Mfg. Co., 142 U. S. 128,
136. See O'Conner v. Warner, 4 Watts & S. 223, 226; Bolton v. Johns,
5 Pa. St. 145, 150; Taggard v. Buckm, re, 42 Maine, 77, 81; Buck v.
Brian, 2 How. (Miss.) 874, 881; Montandon & Co. v. Dea, 14 Alabama, 33, 44; Modon v. Sullivan, 1 Mont. 470, 473.

PIEDMONT COAL CO. v. SEABOARD FISHERIES CO. 11
1.

Opinion of the Court.

Newport, 114 Fed. Rep. 713; The Alligator, 161 Fed. Rep.
37; Astor Trust Co. v. E. V. White & Co., 241 Fed. Rep.
57, 61; each vessel so receiving supplies may be made
liable for the supplies furnished to it. The Murphy Tugs,
28 Fed. Rep. 429. The difficulty which, under the general
maritime law, would have blocked recovery by the Coal
Company is solely that it did not furnish coal to the vessels upon which it asserts a maritime lien; and there is
nothing in the Act of June 23, 1910, which removes that
obstacle.
It is urged by the Coal Company that it was the intention of Congress in passing the act to broaden the scope
of the maritime lien and that the construction of the act
adopted by the Circuit Court of Appeals renders the
statute inoperative in an important class of cases which it
was intended to reach. The language of the statute
affords no basis for the latter assertion, and the Reports
of the Committees of Congress (Senate Report, No. 831,
61st Cong., 2d sess.) show that it is unfounded. Those
reports state that the purpose of the act was this: First,
to do away with the artificial distinction by which a
maritime lien was-given for supplies furnished to a vessel
in a port of a foreign country or state,, but denied where
the supplies were furnished -in the home port or state.
The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438. Second, to do away
with the doctrine that, when the owner of a vessel con-.
tracts in person for necessaries or is present in the port
when they are ordered, it is presumed that the materialman did not intend to rely upon the credit of the vessel,.
and that hence, no lien arises. The St. Jago de Cuba, 9
Wheat. 409. Third, to substitute a single federal statute
for the state statutes in so fax as they confer liens for repairs, supplies and other necessaries. Peyroux v. Howard,
7 Pet. 324. The reports expressly declare that the bill
makes "no change in the general principles -of the present
law of maritime liens, but merely substitutes a single

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

statute for the conflicting state statutes." The act relieves the libelant of the burden of proving that credit
was given to the ship when necessaries are furnished to
her upon order of the owner, but it in no way lessens the
materialman's burden of proving that the supplies in
question were furnished to her by him upon order of the
owner or of some one acting by his authority. The maritime lien is a secret one. It may operate to the prejudice
of prior mortgagees or of purchasers without notice. It is
therefore strictijuris and will not be extended by construction, analogy or inference. The Yankee Blade, 19 How.
82, 89; The Cora P. White, 243 Fed. Rep. 246, 248.
The Coal Company relies strongly upon The Kiersage,
2 Curtis, 421, and Berwind-White Coal Mining Co. v.
Metropolitan Steamship Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 782; 173 Fed.
Rep. 471. The language of the state statutes there under
consideration differs from that of the federal act. Furthermore, the state legislation creating liens for work and materials furnished in the repair and supply, as well as in the
construction of vessels, are largely extensions of the local,
mechanic's lien laws applicable to buildings.'
The Coal Company also urges upon our attention The
Yankee, 233 Fed. Rep. 919, 925, 927. There the court
in sustaining a maritime lien declared that the supplies
were delivered not to the charterer but to the vessel,
holding that "a materialman may make actual delivery
of supplies to a vessel in the maritime sense, by causing.
them to be transported by rail and water carriers by interrupted stages from point of origin to the vessel side,
when the transaction is begun by a valid order indicating
that the supplies are for the vessel and are to be delivered
to her, and is completed by an actual delivery to the vessel
'See "Confusion in the Law Relating to Materialmen's Liens on
Vessels," 21 Harvard Law Review, 332, and "The New Federal Stat-

ute Relating to Liens on Vessels," 24 Harvard Law Review, 182, both
by Fitz-Henry Smith, Jr.

PIEDMONT COAL CO. v. SEABOARD FISHERIES CO. 13
1.

Opinion of the Court.

consistent with the instructions of the order and the intentions of the parties giving and accepting it." And in
respect to the coal supplied the court there found specifically that "the quantity to be supplied to and daily consumed by the Yankee, was mentioned and considered by
the parties." In the case at bar there was no understanding when the contract was made, or when the coal was
delivered by the libelant, that any part of it was for any
particular vessel or even for the vessels then composing
the fleet. And it was clearly understood that the purchasing corporation would apply part of the coal to a nonmaritime use. The difficulty here (unlike that presented
in The Vigilancia, 58 Fed. Rep. 698; The Cimbria, 156
Fed. Rep. 378, 382; and The Curtin, 165 Fed. Rep. 271)
is not in failure to show that the coal was furnished to
the vessels but in failure to prove that it was furnished by
the libelant.
It was also argued that the parties made an express
agreement that the Coal'Company should have a lien;
that is, that they created by agreement a non-statutory
lien. The concurrent findings of fact by the lower courts,
which we accept (Baker v. Schofield, 243 U. S. 114, 118;
La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 114; The Germanic, 196 U. S.
589, 595;) are to the contrary.
Aflirmed.

