SULLIVAN v. KIDD.

425.

Syllabus.

source of original jurisdiction of the trial court, and not
by the nature of the questions of law raised or decided.
In our view the petition filed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals was ancillary to the original jurisdiction invoked,
and was still in its essence and nature a suit involving
the validity of a patent, which is-expressly made final in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, subject to the right of this
court to review by writ of certiorari.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed, and the case remanded to that
court for further proceedings upon the petition filed by
the National Brake & Electric Company in conformity
with the opinion of this court.
Reversed.

SULLIVAN ET AL. v. KIDP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 65. Argued April 27, 1920; restored to docket for oral argument
May 17, 1920; reargued December 10, 1920.-Decided January .3,
1921.
1. In the absence of a controlling treaty, the capacity of an alien to
inherit land within a State of the Union depends upon the law of
that State. P. 435.
2. Treaties are to be interpreted upon the same principles as written
contracts between individuals, all parts being considered with a
view to giving a fair operation to the whole; and they are to be
executed-in the utmost good faith to effectuate the purposes of the
high contracting parties. P. 439.
3. The Treaty of March 2, 1899, between Great Britain and the
United States, grants the subjects of each party certain rights of
inheritance respecting real property within the territories of the
other, but declares (Art. IV) that its stipulations shall not be
applicable to any of the colonies or foreign possessions of the British

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Parties.

254 U. S.

Crown unless a notice to that effect shall have been given by Great
Britain to the United States on behalf of such colony or possession,
and that its provisions shall extend and apply to any territory pertaining to or occupied by the United States beyond the seas, only
upon notice to that effect being given by the United States to Great
Britain. Held, that thagiving of such notice conditions the applicability of the treaty to a foreign possession, not merely in respect
of the property there situate, but also in respect of the subjects
on
and citizens there residing; so that, no notice having been given
behalf of Canada, a subject of Great Britain who was a citizen and
resident of that Dominion acquired no right under the treaty to
inherit land in the United States. P. 436.
4. The fact that Canada, as'a self-governing dependency, in the
exercise of her legislative power, has granted aliens the right to
inherit, cannot affect the construction of the treaty. P. 440.
5. In the practice of this country, the "most favored nation" clause
is held not to extend the rights acquired by treaties containing
it because of reciprocal benefits expressly conferred in treaties with
other nations in exchange for rights or privileges given to our
Government. P. 441.
6. The "most favored nation" clause in the above cited treaty does
not control its specific condition upon the right of citizens of. a
foreign possession to participate in its benefits. Id.
7. In construing the treaty little weight can be attached to a different
construction placed by Great Britain on an earlier treaty with
Japan but which was not made known to the representative who
negotiated the treaty in question for this country. P. 442.
8.,A construction placed upon a treaty and consistently adhered to
by the Executive Department, should be given much weight by the
courts. Id.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr, Geo. F. Beatty and Mr.
. Litowich, for appellants,
submitted. Mr. C. W. Burch and Mr. La Rue Royce were
also on the brief.
Mr. H. M. Langworthy, with whom Mr. 0. H. Dean,
Mr. R. B. Thomson, Mr. R. D. Wiliams, Mr. J. E. Madden

and Mr. W. D. McLeod were on the biefs, for appellee.

SULLIVAN v. KIDD.
433.

Opinion of the Court.

The Solicitor General, by special leave of court, submitted a brief on behalf of the United States.
MR.JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion, of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the United States
District Court for the District of Kansas. It involves the
construction of the Treaty between Great Britain and the
United States of March 2, 1899, relating to the tenure
and disposition of real and personal property. Compilation of Treaties in Force 1904, 375 (Malloy); 31
Stat. 1939.
The case arises from the following facts:
Peter Martin died at Osawatomie, Kansas, January 29,
1915, owning real estate situated in the County of Saline,
Kansas. He left surviving him certain relatives, among
others a sister Margaret Ingoldsby, a resident of the township of Sheffield, County of Lennox-Addington, Province
of Ontario, Canada. After the death of Peter Martin,
and on July 28, 1916, Margaret Ingoldsby died at her
home in Canada, and by her last will and testament, duly
probated, she named the appellee, Jane Kidd, her sole
devisee and legatee. The real estate in Kansas has been
sold in partition sale, and the question to be decided is
whether Jane Kidd, thus holding by devise the interest
of Margaret Ingoldsby, is entitled to succeed to the undivided one-seventh of the estate of Peter Martin.
Primarily the devolution of the estate, it being situated
in the State of Kansas, would be determined by the laws
of that State. Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333, and
previous cases in this court cited and quoted on page 341
et seq. Under the constitution and laws of Kansas Margaret Ingoldsby, an alien, was incapable of inheriting, and
the estate would pass to the brothers and sisters and their
representatives who were native citizens. Johnson v.
Olson, 92 Kansas, 819.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

The right of Jane Kidd to succeed to the interest of
Margaret Ingoldsby is said to arise from the fact that the
latter was, although a citizen and resident of Canada, a
British subject, and entitled to the succession because
of the Treaty of March 2, 1899. The District Court sustained this contention. Pertinent provisions of the Treaty
are:
"ARTICLE I.

"Where, on the death of any person holding real property (or property not personal), within the territories of
one of the Contracting Parties, such real property would,
by the laws of the land, pass to a citizen or subject of the
other, were he not disqualified by the laws of the country
where such real property is situated, such citizen or subject.shall be allowed a term of three years in which to sell
the same, this term to be reasonably prolonged if circumstances render it necessary, and to withdraw the proceeds
thereof, without restraint or interference, and exempt
from any succession, probate or administrative duties or
charges other than those which may be imposed in like
cases upon the citizens or subjects of the country from
which such proceeds may be drawn.
II.
"The citizens or subjects of each of the Contracting
Parties shall have full power to dispose of their personal
property within the territories of the other, by testament,
donation, or otherwise; and their heirs, legatees, and
donees, being citizens or subjects of the other Contracting Party, whether resident or non-resident, shall succeed
to their said personal property, and may take possession
thereof either by themselves or by others acting for them,
and dispose of the same at their pleasure, paying such
duties only as the citizens or subjects of the country where
the property lies shall be liable to pay in like cases.
"ARTICLE

SULLIVAN v. KIDD.
433.

Opinion of the Court.

"ARTICLE IV.

"The stipulations of the present Convention shall not
be applicable to any of the Colonies or foreign possessions
of Her Britannic Majesty unless notice to that effect shall
have been given, on behalf of any such Colony or foreign
possession by Her Britannic Majesty's Representative
at Washington to the United States Secretary of State,
within one year from the date of the exchange of the
'.ratifications of the present Convention.
"It is understood that under the provisions of this
Article, Her Majesty can in the same manner give notice
of adhesion on behalf of any British Protectorate or
sphere of influence, or on behalf of the Island of Cyprus,
in virtue of the Convention of the 4th of June, 1878, between Great Britain and Turkey.
"The provisions of this Convention shall extend and
apply to any tefritory or territories pertaining to or occupied and governed by the United States beyond the seas,
only upon notice to that effect being given by the Representative of the United States at London, by direction
of the treaty making power of the United States.
"ARTICLE V.

"In all that concerns the right of disposing of every
kind of property, real or personal, citizens or subjects
of each of the High Contracting Parties shall in the
Dominions of the other enjoy the rights which are or may
be accorded to the citizens or subjects of the most favored
nation.
"ARTICLE VI.

"The present Convention shall come into effect ten
days after the day upon which the ratifications are exchanged, and shall remain in force for ten years after, such
exchange. In case neither of the High Contracting Parties
shall have given notice to the other, twelve months before

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the expiration of the said period of ten years, of the intention to terminate the present Convention, it shall remain
in force until the expiration of one year from the day on
which either of the High Contracting Parties shall have
given such notice.
".The United States .or Her Britannic Majesty shall
also have the right separately to terminate the present
Convention at any time on giving twelve months' notice
to that effect in regard to any British Colony, foreign possession, or dependency, as specified in Article IV, which
may have acceded thereto."
* The case was argued and submitted at the last
term
of this court. It was ordered reinstated with notice to
the Attorneys General of the United States and of the
State of Kansas. The case has been reargued. The Solicitor General presented the views of the State Department
of the United States, and submitted a brief in behalf of
the Government.
There are opposing views of the treaty, one taken by
the British, and the other by the American Government,
the view of the former being that British subjects, resident of Canada,. or elsewhere, are entitled to inherit
property in any State of the United States, and citizens
of the United States are entitledto inherit in Great Britain
and its possessions and colonies, provided as to the latter,
that notice has been given under Article IV of the treaty
of adhesion to the terms of the convention as to such
colonies and possessions. - The American contention is
stated by the Solicitor General, and appears by a communication from the Secretary of State-of October 2, 1920,
sent in response to the invitation of the Solicitor General
and now on the files of the Department of Justice. The
Secretary of State sets forth that it.
is the view of this
Government that British subjects, citizens and residents
of Canada, do not inherit in the United States by Virtue
of the stipulations of the treaty, because as to the Domin-

SULLIVAN v. KIDDi,
433.

Opinion of the Court.

ion of Canada no notice of adhesion to the same has been
given as is required by the stipulations of Article IV. It
hence appears that the one contention is that the notice
required by Article IV has a territorial effect only, and
when given brings such territory into the operative force
of the treaty as to the property situated therein; the
other, that, as to subjects and citizens, the notice is
required to bring residents and property within the operative effect of the treaty.
Applied to the concrete case, the American contention
is that Margaret Ingoldsby was not entitled to inherit
in Kansas by the terms of this treaty because notice of
adherence for the Dominion of Canada was not given.
The communication of the, State Department to the
Solicitor General shows that the American Government
is ready, and has expressed its willingness, to take up the
matter of extending the treaty, provisions to the Dominion
of Canada, notwithstanding the fact that the stipulated
time for notice has expired.
Writers of authority agree that treaties are to be interpreted upon the principles which govern the interpretation
of contracts in writing between individuals, and are to be
executed in the utmost good faith, with a view to making
effective the purposes of the high contracting parties;
that all parts of a treaty are to receive a reasonable construction with a view to giving a fair operation to the
whole. Moore, International Law Digest, vol. 5, 249. 'At
the time of the negotiation of the treaty Great Britain
had numerous colonies and possessions, and the United
States had recently acquired certain islands beyond the
seas. Concerning these the contracting parties made the,
stipulations contained in Article IV, adding the right to
give like notice in behalf of any British pretectorate, or
sphere of influence, or on behalf of the Island of Cyprus
by virtue of the Convention of June 4, 1878, between
Great Britain and Turkey. As to the islands beyond

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the seas occupied or governed by the United States, they
were to come within the terms of the treaty only upon
notice to that effect by direction of the treaty-making
power of the United States.
If the contention of the appellee be correct, it necessarily
follows that as to British possessions, the inhabitants
thereof being British subjects, had nothing to gain by
giving notice which Article IV specifically required, for
as to them their rights had been secured by Articles I
and II of the treaty. Applying this construction to the
instant case, Canadians while residents of the Dominion,
and citizens of a self-regulating and self-governing community, acquired by virtue of this treaty as British subjects the right to inherit 'in every State of the American
'Union regardless of local laws; this while citizens of the
United States acquired no corresponding right to inherit
in the Dominion of Canada until notice be given; a matter
entirely beyond the control of American authority. The
American right to inherit in Canada became a matter of
grace on the part of 'the other contracting nation when
it saw fit to grant it by signifying its adhesion to the treaty.
Such construction is inconsistent'with the general purpose
and object of such conventions to secure equality in exchange of privileges and reciprocity in rights granted and
secured. Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 271.
The fact that Canada, as a self-go',-eruing dependency,
in the exercise of the legislative power which is hers, has
seen fit to give aliens the right to inherit, adds nothing
to the argument in favor of the appellee. The Dominion
of Canada has not the treaty-making power. Whatever
the Dominion may see fit to do in the exercise of its own
legislative authority cannot affect tho right of a State
of the American Union to determine for herself whether
aliens shall inherit property within her borders. The
construction insisted upon by the United States makes
for the exchange of reciprocal rights under the provislons

SULLIVAN v. KIDD.
433.

Opinion of the Court.

of the treaty, and when the required notice is given, British subjects resident of Canada would have property rights
in the United States similar to those accorded citizens
of the United States in Canada. That notice was deemed
essential to the security of rights of British subjects,
resident of the colonies, is shown by the practice which
has followed the making of the Supplementary Convention of 1902 (Treaties -in Force 1904, 377; 32 Stat., p.
1914) extending for twelve months from July 28, 1901,
the time fixed in Article IV of the Treaty of March 2, 1899,
for the notification of accession to that Convention by
British colonies or foreign possessions. In a note to this
treaty, published in Treaties in Force 1904, supra, it
appears that most of the British colonies and possessions
have given notice of adhesion to the Treaty of 1899.
The significance of Article VI is important. In this
article provision is made for the right of the United States
or the British Government to terminate separately the
Convention by twelve months' notice to that effect in
regard to any British colony, foreign possession or dependency, as specified in Article IV, which may have
acceded to the Convention. This article lends strong
support to the argument that only colonies or possessions
which accede to the Convention are to have the benefit
thereof; such rights, recognized as acquired by accession,
being subject to termination by the withdrawal provision
of Article VI.
Nor are we impressed with the argument that Canadian
citizens, being also British subjects, are entitled to inherit
in Kansas by virtue of the most favored nation clause.
That clause has been held in the practice of this country
to be one not extending rights acquired by treaties containing it because of reciprocal benefits expressly conferred in conventions with other nations in exchange for
rights or privileges given to this Government. This
clause cannot overcome the specific provisions of Article

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

IV making adhesion to the treaty necessary in order to
bring citizens and property of colonies and possessions
within the benefits of the treaty.
We are unable to see that the construction of this
treaty is aided by the argument of counsel in the supplemental brief of the appellee that Lord Salisbury for the
British Government insisted upon the construction which
they contend for in relation to a similar convention with
Japan. We find nothing in the archives of the Department of State to show that this insistence was brought
forward in the course of negotiations or in any manner
came to the attention of the AiAerican Representative,
Mr. Hay, who negotiated this treaty with Sir Julian
Pauncefote, the British Representative.
The American Government upon a message from the
President for the purpose of securing the consent of the
Senate, as we learn from public documents on file in the
State Department, has with the consent of the Senate
extended the provisions of the Convention of 1899 to
Porto Rico and has so notified the British Government.
We are advised by the letter of the Secretary of State of
October 2, 1920 (on fie in the Department of Justice),
that this Government is ready to take up with the British
Government the matter of extension of the- treaty provisions.to Hawaii and the Dominion of Canada.
While the question of the construction. of treaties is
judicial in its nature, and courts when called upon to act
should be careful to see that international engagements
are faithfully kept and observed, the construction pladed
upon the treaty before us and consistently adhered to by
the Executive Department of the Government, charged
with the supervision of our foreign relations, should be
given much weight. Charlton v. Kelly, 229 U. S. 447, 468.
See also Castro v. De Uriarte, 16 Fed. Rep. 93, 98 (opinion
by Judge Addison Brown).
Taking the view which we have here expressed of the

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
433.

Syllabus.

real purpose of the treaty as evidenced by its terms, which
is strengthened by the practices of both governments
in pursuance of it, we reach the conclusion that for lack
of notice of the adhesion of Canada to the. terms of the
treaty, the law of Kansas was not superseded in favor
of British subjects resident in Canada, and it determined
the right of aliens to inherit lands in that State.
Reversed.

DUPLEX PRINTING PRESS COMPANY v. DEERING ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS BUSINESS
AGENTS OF DISTRICT NO. 15 OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 45.

Argued January 22, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

1. The Act of October i5, 1914, known as the Clayton Act, in so far
as it grants relief by injunction to private suitors, or affixes conditions
and otherwise modifies the Sherman Act, is applicable to a suit for
an injunction pending at the time of its enactment. P. 464.
2. For the purpose of compelling a manufacturer of printing pressesto unionize its factory in Michigan, in which there had been an
unsuccessful strike, and to enforce there the "closed shop," the
eight-hour day and the union scale of wages, organizations of
machinists with headquarters at New York City, and a larger
organization of national scope with which they were affiliated, entered into a combination to interfere with and restrain the manufacturer's interstate trade by means of a "secondary" boycott, centered particularly at New York City and vicinity where many of the
presses were marketed; in pursuance of which this manufacturer's
customers in and near New York were warned, with threats of
loss and of sympathetic strikes in other trtdes, not to purchase or.
install its presses; a trucking company usually employed by customers

