DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
433.

Syllabus.

real purpose of the treaty as evidenced by its terms, which
is strengthened by the practices of both governments
in pursuance of it, we reach the conclusion that for lack
of notice of the adhesion of Canada to the. terms of the
treaty, the law of Kansas was not superseded in favor
of British subjects resident in Canada, and it determined
the right of aliens to inherit lands in that State.
Reversed.

DUPLEX PRINTING PRESS COMPANY v. DEERING ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS BUSINESS
AGENTS OF DISTRICT NO. 15 OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 45.

Argued January 22, 1920.-Decided January 3, 1921.

1. The Act of October i5, 1914, known as the Clayton Act, in so far
as it grants relief by injunction to private suitors, or affixes conditions
and otherwise modifies the Sherman Act, is applicable to a suit for
an injunction pending at the time of its enactment. P. 464.
2. For the purpose of compelling a manufacturer of printing pressesto unionize its factory in Michigan, in which there had been an
unsuccessful strike, and to enforce there the "closed shop," the
eight-hour day and the union scale of wages, organizations of
machinists with headquarters at New York City, and a larger
organization of national scope with which they were affiliated, entered into a combination to interfere with and restrain the manufacturer's interstate trade by means of a "secondary" boycott, centered particularly at New York City and vicinity where many of the
presses were marketed; in pursuance of which this manufacturer's
customers in and near New York were warned, with threats of
loss and of sympathetic strikes in other trtdes, not to purchase or.
install its presses; a trucking company usually employed by customers

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

254 U. S.

was notified, with threats, not to haul them; employees of the trucking company and of customers were incited to strike in order to
prevent both hauling and installation; repair shops were notified
not to repair them; union men were coerced by threats of the loss
of their union cards and of being blacklisted as "scabs" if they
assisted in installing them; an exposition company was threatened
with a strike, if it allowed them to be exhibited, etc., etc.,-all of
which seriously interfered with the interstate trade of the manufacturer and caused great loss to its business. Held, a combination
and conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce against which the
manufacturer was entitled to relief by injunction under the Sherman
Act, as amended by the Clayton Act. Pp. 461 et seq.
3. A conspiracy is a combination of two or more by concerted action
to accomplish an unlawful purpose or to accomplish a purpose not
in itself unlawful by unlawful means. If the purpose .be unlawful, it
may not be carried out by means otherwise lawful; and although
it be lawful, it may not be carried out by means that are unlawful.
P. 465.
4. A. "secondary boycott" is a combination not merely to refrain
from dealing with the person aimed at, or to advise or by peaceful
means persuade his customers to refrain, but to exercise coercive
pressure upon such customers, actual or prospective, in order to
cause them to withhold or withdraw patronage through fear of loss
or dafnage to themselves. P. 466.
5. In determining the right to an injunction under the Clayton and
Sherman Acts, the legality or illegality of a boycott under the
common law or under the statutes of a particular State is of minor
consequence, since the acts of Congress are paramount in their field
and must be given full, independent effect. P. 466.
6. It is settled by decisions of this court that a restraint of interstate
commerce produced by peaceable persuasion violates the Sherman
Act, and is not justified by the fact that the. participants in the
combination or conspiracy have an object beneficial to. themselves
or their associates which they might have been at liberty to pursue
in the absence of the statute. P. 468.
7. Section 6 of the Clayton Act, in declaring that nothing in the antitrust laws shall be construed to forbid the existence and operation
of labor organizations or to forbid their members from lawfully
carrying out the legitimate objects thereof, and that such organizations or their members shall not be construed to be illegal combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade, assumes that the normal objects of such organizations are legitimate, but contains nothing

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Syllabus.

to exempt them or their members from accountability when they
depart from objects that are noimal and legitimate and engage in
an actual combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade. It does
not authorize any activity otherwise unlawful, or enable a normally
lawful organization to cloak such an illegal combination or conspiracy. P. 468.
8. The first -'aragraph of § 20 of the Clayton Act-which provides that
injunctions shall not be granted in any case between an employer and
employees, etc., growing out of a dispute concerning the terms and
conditions of employment, unless necessary to prevent irreparable
injury to property, or to a property right, of the party making the
application, for which injury there is no adequate remedy at law,
and that such property right must be described with particularity
in the application, which must be in writing and sworn to by the
applicant or by his agent or attorney,-is merely declaratory of the
law as it stood before. P. 469.
9. The second paragraph of § 20 of the Clayton Act, which provides
that,"no such . . . injunction shall prohibit" certain specified
acts, manifestly refers to injunctions in any case of the character
mentioned in the paragraph preceding, namely, "a case between an
employer and employees .
involving, or growing out of, a
dispute concerning terms or conditions of employment;" and the
concluding words of the second paragraph, "nor shall any of the
acts specified in this paragraph be considered or held to be viol:ations
of any law of the United States," are to be read in the light )f the
context, and mean only that those acts are not to be so held when
committed by parties concerned in a "dispute concerning terms or
conditions of employment." P. 469.
10. As the section imposes an exceptional and extraordinary r.striction upon the equity powers of the federal courts, and up n the
general operation of the anti-trust laws, conferring a special privilege or immunity upon a particular class to the detriment of the
general public, the rules of statutory construction forbid th t the
privilege be enlarged by resorting to a loose construction or by ignoring or slighting the qualifying words of the section. P. 471.
11. This section confines the exceptional privilege to those who are
proximately and substantially concerned in an actual dispute respecting the terms or conditions of their own employment, past,
present or prospective; it does not use the words "employers and
eraployees" in a general class sense, or treat all the members of a
labor organization as parties to a dispute which proximately affects
but a few of them. Pp. 471 et seq.

.446

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

254 U. S.

12. That the Clayton Act was not intended to legalize the secondary
boycott is shown by its legislative history. P. 474.
13. In construing an act of Congress, debates expressing views and
motives of individual members may not be resorted to, but reports
of committees and explanatory statements in the nature of a supplemental report made by the committee member in charge of the bill
in course of passage, may. Id.
252 Fed. Rep. 722, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt and Mr. Daniel Davenport
for appellant:
This is not an ordinary labor case in which the defendants have sought to improve their conditions of employment by a strike and incidental picketing against their
employer, to which the ordinary rules relative to labor
unions are applicable. Such a case involves manufacturing and production, which are the peculiar concern
of labor unions.
The attack here is upon complainant's trade and
commerce, United States v. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; Dr.
Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373; and
there is not, nor has there been, any strike or discontent
among the complainant's employees, except the ordered
quitting work on August 27, 1913, of eleven out of 200 in
the factory at Battle Creek and three road men erecting
presses in different parts of the country. The complainant's productive organization is intact, and there is a
harmonious copartnership between it and its employees,
producing goods which are being attacked by union men
in the interest of union factories and their employees.
If complainant's employees were dissatisfied and had
withdrawn from their employment with the complainant,
and there was nothing else in the case, it would be a
strike case, but since outsiders are trying to attack the
trade and commerce being carried on through a harmoni-

DUPLEX CO. v DEERING.
443.

447

Argument for Appellant.

ous partnership of labor and capital it is a boycott case.
When ,employer and employees are working happily
together to such an extent that the workmen refuse all
inducements to strike, any further interference with their
rights, whether it be by violence, intimidation or a boycott
of the fruits of their toil, is illegal. If strikers or labor
union representatives cannot persuade men to quit work,
their rights are exhausted and' they cannot resort to
additional and more drastic methods. A strike is a fight
between labor and capital, where labor withdraws from
its copartnership with capital, and such a withdrawal
because of dissatisfaction with the terms of the partnership is lawful. But a boycott necessarily implies that the
goods are being produced by an existing organization of
labor and capital, so that any attack on the goods and the
sale of those goods is an attack upon both labor and capital, by union men working in the interest of union
employers-and sometimes at their instigation-to prevent the sale of the open-shop products and secure a
monopoly for the union-made products; it is the openshop employer and his employees on the one side and
the union employer and union employees on the other
sid9, and the legality of the combination is not to be
tested by the rules applicable to a labor-capital fight
where labor merely withdraws from its partnership with
capital, butjls to be tested by the anti-trust laws which
define the lawful methods of competition in the sale and
distribution of products.
One of the purposes of the anti-trust laws is to give
the public the benefit of free competition, so that all products surviving the battle of fair competition may flow
naturally into the public markets of the nation for the
selection of consumers. . Any artificial or unreasonable.
obstruction to trade which deprives the public, of these
advantages necessarily violates the anti-trust laws.
To unduly restrict competition or obstruct the course

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

254 U. S.

of trade is injurious to the public because it deprives
the public of its inherent right of enjoying the service
and the fruits of the service of everybody, and because
if the obstruction is successful it keeps goods from the
market and restricts the public's right of choice in determining what articles it may purchase. Any combination
which, by artificial means, seeks to obstruct the course
of trade, is illegal, and only that obstruction is tolerated
which is incidental to the ordinary and regular pursuit
of a business. The combination in the case at bar and
the injury which it has indicted and threatens to inflict
upon the complainant was not incidental to the pursuit
of any legitimate business, but had for its sole and direct
purpose the suppression of the complainant's competition
by erecting an artificial barrier between complainant and
its customers and destroying its interstate trade.
The object of the -defendants is to prevent the sale and
use of machines unless they come from factories operated
and exclusively manned by members of the combination
and in accordance with methods approved by it. According to the defendants' contentions, and the contentions
of the union factories which have conceded their demands,
they must protect the union factories from the competition of the open-shop faetories, because, under the
natural laws of trade and competition, the union factories
cannot survive with their increased cost of production.
Not being able to control the complainant's producing
organization at Battle Creek because the employees are
contented with their employment, the only possible
method by which this could be accomplished is to restrain
the trade and commerce of the complainant by making
their products unsalable. This is done by calling strikes
against their installation, preventing common carriers
from hauling them, threatening purchasers with strikes
of pressmen, and with the impossibility of operating the
presses, causing breakdowns of such presses, preventing

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Argument for Appellant.

their repair, and finally even seeking to suppress their
public exhibition and advertisement. If this can be done
the barrier between the complainant and the public market, will be unsurmountable.
There is no relation between the complainant's factories in Battle Creek and the places where the presses
are to be exhibited, hauled, installed or operated, except
commerce, so that the only way in which the conditions
in the factories can be affected by the conduct of the men
at the place of consignment is by controlling commerce.
The combination violates the Federal Anti-Trust Law
and the complainant is entitled to an injunction under the
Act of October 15, 1914.
The right to work or quit work is no more absolute
than any other constitutional right and ceases to be a
right when exercised for the purpose of injuring another
or accomplishing a, result contrary to public policy or
restraining trade contrary to law. Aikens v. Wisconsin,
195 U. S. 204; Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221
U. S. 418; Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245
U. S. 229; Paine Lumber. Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459;
Loewe v. Lawlcr, 208 U. S.. 274; 235 U. S. 522; Montague
v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Eastern States Retail Lumber
Dealers' Association v. United States, 234 U. S. 600;
United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525; Standard Oil Co.
v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; State v. Duluth Board of
Trade, 107 Minnesota, 506.
A private party is entitled to an injunction 'against
acts in violation of the Federal Anti-Trust Law. Clayton
Act, § 16.
There is nothing in §§ 6 and 20 of the Clayton Act
which legalizes conspiracies or forbids the issuance of
injunctions in cases like this.
There is nothing in the act which indicates any intention to "draw the teeth" of the Anti-Trust Law, and
everything points to a determination for more stringent

OCTOBER TERM* 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

254 U. S.

eif6rcement' through" supplementary- legislation. The
legislation,
presence of § 6, as shown by the history of the
is due to the fact that it was thought desirable to put at
rest the contentions of some that the mere existence of
labor unions for legitimate purposes was forbidden by the
Sherman Anti-Trust Law.
Section 20 has no application to the case. It is obvious
that none of the defendants is or has been or probably
ever will be an employee of the complainant, whose factories are situated a thousand miles away from the State
where the defendants reside. The limitation with which
this section commences therefore excludes its application
to the case at bar.
As a general proposition even workmen on strike are
not "employees." Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.
v. Gee, 139 Fed. Rep. 582; Knudsen v. Benn, 123 Fed. Rep.
636; Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ruef, 120 Fed. Rep. 102;
Iron Molders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co, 166 Fed. Rep.
45 (Judge Grosscup's opinion).
It would seem that the word "employee" implies the*
existence of a continuing employment relation. Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v. Wilson, 138 U. S. 501. The various
acts specified in § 20, as acts not to be enjoined, have
some reasonable significance when considered as the acts
of employees carried on incidentally with the calling of
a strike, but are not acts which can be lawfully and properly carried on by outsiders. The defendants' contention
and the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals lead to
the conclusion that a "dispute concerning conditions of
employment" between the complainant and any one of
its employees justifies all of the other so-called employees
in the United States, including the 3,000,000 members
of the American Federation of Labor, engaging in a conspiracy to prevent the sale of articles made by 99.9 per
6ent. of the contented 'employees of the complainant.If, as in this case, the union can create a necessary dispute

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Argument for Appellant.

to legalize its attack by ordering 5 per cent of the workmen to quit, it may likewise open the flood gates of
destruction against the joint products of the employer
and his 99 per cent. contented employees by merely showing that 1 per cent. has responded to its orders. And
it is, of course, obvious that § 20 refers to a dispute between the employers and employees and does not extend
any immunity to outsiders or sympathizers. Certainly
employee" or "dispute"
the- word "employer" or
should not be extended beyond its natural meaning when
to. do so will make it operate in derogation of common
rights of the particular class of litigants specified.
The intent of § 20 was to forbid the issuance of injunctions in those cases, only, where the acts enumerated in
its several clauses would not be "unlawful in the absence
of such dispute," referring, of course, to a "dispute concerning terms or conditions of employment" between
the several classes of persons enumerated in the first
sentence of the section. Acts which were unlawful before
the passage of the Clayton Act are still unlawful under it,
because they are unlawful independently of and in the
absence of a trade dispute.
In other words, in trade dispute cases the presence of
a trade dispute shall not itself taint the specified acts
with illegality if they are otherwise legal. Since the
secondary'. boycott is still unlawful in the absence of a
trade dispute, Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers'
Association v. United States, 234 U. S. 600, it must likewise be unlawful when connected with a trade dispute.
This whole section of the law, as shown by its history,
was only intended to put at rest the contentions of labor,
fallacious though they were, that the courts discriminated
unfairly against lawful acts in -trade dispute cases. The
secondary boycott therefore remains as unlawful as
ever.
It iS further obvious that the various acts mentioned

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

254 U. S.

in § 20 against which injunctions shall not issue in this
limited class of cases are most of them acts which in and
of themselves are ordinarily lawful as between an employer and his employees, and that this section accomplishes no other purpose than to declare the previously
existing law on this subject. It merely declares that the
acts specified of themselves and by themselves shall not
be held to violate any federal law, but it does not mean
thst jurisprudence shall be revolutionized by declaring
that such acts may be done with impunity to accomplish
criminal purposes. If, as stated by this court, not even
the recognition of a right by the Constitution can justify
its exercise in furtherance of a criminal plot (Aikens v.
Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194), and the constitutional privilege of free speech cannot be used as a defense to an injunction which restrains speech or writing, in furtherance
of an illegal conspiracy (Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range
Co., 221 U. S. 439), then it certainly follows that the
recognition of a right by a statute such as the Clayton Act
will not justify the exercise of that right in furtherance of
a criminal- conspiracy, which is expressly recognized by
the same statute. When these acts are used in furtherance of a criminal plot they become acts of an entirely
different character from those described by this section,
for they are colored, and their character determined, by
the illegal plot.
Defendants' contention, besides requiring a repeal by
implication, renders § 20 unconstitutional as class legislation, especially as it would exempt laborers, not as
such but in their attempts to control sale and distribution of commodities. Cleland v. Anderson, 66 Nebraska,
252; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
From these well-reasoned decisions it would seem to
follow that an exemption from the anti-trust laws extended to any class of people, purely as a class, is unconstitutional, if the exemption extends to that class

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Argument for Appellant.

under the identical circumstances where other classes
are bound by the law.
A statute forbidding the federal courts to issue any restraining order or injunction to prohibit the doing of
enumerated acts, however unlawful they may be, and
however necessary such order or injunction may be to
preserve the subject-matter of the litigation, would conflict
with the statutes creating those courts and with the general law giving them equitable jurisdiction over such cases
when the matter involved exceeds $5,000 in amount.
Such a law would violate not only the due process
clause of the Constitution, but that other clause which
declares that the judicial power of federal courts of
equity shall extend to all cases and controversies over
which, by the statutes of their creation, they are given
jurisdiction.
The right to injunction under the Clayton Act is established by Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459;
and Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229.
The act applies to a suit pending. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 18 How. 421, 431; Montgomery v. Pacific
Ry. Co., 258 Fed. Rep. 382. And our construction of the
act is sustained by United States v. Rintelen, 233 Fed. Rep.
793,799; Lamar v. United States, 260 Fed. Rep. 561; Alaska
S. S. Co. v. International Longshoremen's Assn, 236 Fed.
Rep. 964; Tri-City Central Trades Council v. American
Steel Foundries,238 Fed. Rep. 728; United States v. King,
250 Fed. Rep. 908; 229 Fed. Rep. 275; Stephens v. Ohio
State Telephone Co., 240 Fed. Rep. 759; Dowd v. United
Mine Workers, 235 Fed. Rep. 1; United Mine Workers v.
Coronado Co., 258 Fed. Rep. 829; and it is confirmed by
its legislative history.
The combination is unlawful at common law. [Citing
numerous decisions, including: Shine v. Fox Bros. Mfg.
Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 357; Auburn Draying Co. v. Wardell,
227 N. Y. 1; Irving v. Joint District Council, 180 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U. S.

Rep. 896; Huttig Sash & Door Co. v. Fuelle, 143 Fed. Rep.
363; Purvis v. United Brotherhood,214 Pa. St. 348; Purington v. Hinchliff, 219 Illinois, 159; Lohse Patent Door Co. v.
Fuelle, 215 Missouri, 421; Moores v. Bricklayers (Ohio),
23 Law Bull. 665; Thomas v. Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co., 62
Fed. Rep. 818; Toledo, A. A. & N. M. Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 730; Thomson Machine Co. V.
Brown, 89 N. J. Eq. 326; Employing Printers Club v.
Blosser Co., 122 Georgia, 509; Seubert v. Reiff, 98 Misc.
402; 164 N. Y.. S. 522; Schlang v. Ladies' Waist Makers'
Union, 124 N. Y. S. 289; 67 Misc. 221; Burnham v.
Dowd, 217 Massachusetts, 351; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208
U. S. 274, 288; Martell v. White, 185 Massachusetts,
2551.
The question of the applicability of the common law
is for the independent decision of the federal courts, not
controlled by the decisions of the New York courts.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368;
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 33; Smith v. Alabama, 124
U. S. 465; Rocky Mountain Telephone Co. v. Montana
Federation of Labor, 156 Fed. Rep. 809; Loewe v. California State Federationof Labor, 139 Fed. Rep. 71.
Mr. Frank X. Sullivan, with whom Mr. Frank L. Mulholland was on the brief, for appellees:
The means employed by the defendants to secure an
eight-hour day and minimum rate of wage throughout
the trade are authorized by the Clayton Amendment.
Prior to this amendment the factor of "economic sympathies" referred, to in Gill Engraving Co. v. Doerr, 214
Fed. Rep. 111, 120, note, placed the legality of the acts of
labor unions in such doubt that it was not possible safely
to direct the action of a combination of working men
during a period of industrial dispute. Now this amendment clearly states what may be done; and whether it
amplifies or merely clarifies what was the law, is im-

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Argument for Appellees.

material. When the amendment 'was before Congress,
it was recognized that the purpose was to change or
clarify the law as laid down by the Supreme Court in the
Danbury Hatters' Case, Loewe v.- Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274;
235 U. S. 522; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealerg?
Association v. United State, 234 U. S. 600; 51 Cong.
Rec., p. 15945. It affirmatively appears that it was
the decision in the Danbury Hatters' Case that brought
the amendment about, and the great publicity of that
case created the sentiment in its favor. There had
been earlier attempts in Congress to exempt organizations of, farmer§ and laborers from the Anti-Trust Law.
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. at p. 301; Lawlor v: Loewe,
209 Fed. Rep. 721, 726.
The collection of the judgment in the Danbury Hatters'
Case (235 U. S. 522), by sale on execution of the workingmen's homes, could not be shifted from the shoulders
of those directly bearing the burden to the public at large.
It was a calamity for them, and the puipose of the Clayton Amendment was in part to prevent the recurrence
of just such a catastrophe.
The effort of labor organizations to secure an equalization of the hours of labor and rate of wages throughout
a trade is not only lawful but extremely beneficial both
to employers and employees, and in accomplishing this
purpose they are regarded with favor and approvalby
the courts of the community. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S.
332; PaineLumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459, 471; Bossert
v. Dhuy, 221 N. Y. 342. It is perfectly clear that the
object sought by the defendants was legitimate and laudable, and as such affords no ground for charging them with
a conspiracy. Distinguishing: Hitchman Coal & Coke
Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229; Dr. Miles Medical Co. v.
Park & Sons Co., 220-U. S. 373; United States v. Rintelen,
233 Fed. Rep. 793, 799; Auburn Draying Co. v. Wardell,
227 N. Y. 1. This case falls directly)within § 20 of the

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U. S.

Clayton Act, and is not analogous to the Paine Lumber
Company Case, because here there was a strike or dispute
over wages and hours between employer and employee.
The position of defendants has been that they will do
all of appellant's work or none of it; that they refuse to
handle and erect appellant's presses unless they can
manufacture them. The appellant's contention is that
it desires to employ men ten hours a day without any
basic minimum wage, and to employ members of the
International Association when it desires them to erect
its presses when sent out from Battle Creek; and the
application in this action is primarily to compel the members of- the Association to erect the presses of appellant
constructed under the conditions above referred tb.
The action of the members of the Association in "terminating" their relation of employment with appellant
is expressly authorized by the Clayton Amendment, and
was lawful prior thereto.. National Protective Association
v. Cumming, 170 N. Y. 315, 324; Paine Lumber Co. v.
Neal, supra. The Clayton Act prohibits injunctions
restraining members of labor organizations "from ceasing
to perform any work or labor," or from "recommending,,
advising or persuading others by peaceful and lawful
means so to do." Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal, supra;
Bossert v. Dhuy, supra. All that was done by anyone
in behalf of the Association or by or at the direction of
the defendants was recommending, advising or persuading
others not to work in handling or installing the presses
of appellant.
It is undisputed that the sole purpose of the defendants and the Association is to improve the condition of
its members by securing them proper hours of work and
proper remuneration. Submitted to appellant, their
terms have been rejected upon the ground that appellant
refuses to recognize the riphts of the organization "to
make any demands." This has been followed by the

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Argument for Appellees.

workmen peacefully ceasing their employment in the
establishment of appellant, and in men of their organization refusing to erect appellant's presses. There has been
no interference with interstate commerce. There has
been no threat made to any of appellant's customers.
All that has been done is to bring to their attention the
existence of the' labor difficulties now existing between
appellant and the Association. If these arc not peaceful
and lawful means to be employed by a labor organization
in effecting the proper purposes for which it is created,
then it is obvious that there is no such thing as lawful
conduct on the part of a labor organization as soon as it
begins to be effective.
The appellant's entire claim of conspiracy rests not
upon the unlawfulness of any act, but upon the effectiveness of the acts of the Association. The question of
conspiracy, however, depends not upon the effectiveness
of the means employed, but whether such means are lawful and proper. Tri-City Central Trades Council v. American Steel Foundries, 238 Fed. Rep. 728, 732.
Irreparable injury to property and property rights is
neither alleged nor proven. The defendants and the
Association did nothing more than tell purchasers that a
strike existed at Battle Creek, and that it refused to permit its members to handle these presses in loading them
into vehicles or in loading them from vehicles and erecting them in the plants of the purchasers.
It is impossible for appellant to successfully urge that
the freedom of others to deal with any concern they
choose can be abridged by injunction which would prevent such persons from ascertaining the true facts in
connection with the commodity purchased or to be purchased. While it probably would enable appellant to
sell more presses, if it could prevent these facts from
becoming known, it would obviously be contrary to all
known rules of equitable jurisprudence to give, by injune-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellees.

254 U S.

tion, rights to appellant which affect primarily business
interests of other employers and of its own customers.
Again, if appellant could enjoin the machinists from
refusing to handle these presses during the strike, such
injunction would grant rights contrary to the freedom
of. men to contract, and workmen would thereby be
forced to work for and be employed by an employer contrary to their desires and contrary to their legal and
constitutional rights. The appellant has the right which
no court can abridge-to employ whom it chooses. Likewise, the workingmen have the right to choose whom
they will work for and under what conditions. And it is
no- more a conspiracy for the Association to refuse to
handle appellant's presses during a strike of its members
than it would be for appellant to refuse to allow its men
to handle appellant's presses.
The property right which appellant alleges it possesses
is %nothingmore than the right to solicit business under
fair competition. This right is .similar to the right that
the defendants have-to work for whom they choose and
under what conditions they choose. These rights are
not property rights; they are personal rights, and stand
on the same basis. There is no property interest of appellant threatened and no act done or threatened which
in any way affects property rights. Paine Lumber Co. v.
Neal, 212 Fed. Rep. 259, 267, 268.
There being no proof adduced upon the trial of irreparable injury to property and property rights, only the
United States could apply for injunctive relief under the
Sherman Act. PaineLumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459.
It cannot be successfully argued that the Clayton Act
intended to grant further rights and privileges to employers to enjoin the members of labor organizations.
Appellant cannot maintain this suit in order to. declare
the organization to which the appellees belong unlawful
under the Sherman Act. National Fireproofing Co. v.

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Argument for Appellees.

Mason Builders' Association, 169 Fed. Rep. 259. To
render an association or organization so unlawful, it must
have been formed for the purpose of restraining trade
or commerce among the several States or foreign nations,
or such restraint must necessarily result from such combination. United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U..S. 290; Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco
Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 454; Gibbs v. McNeeley, 118 Fed. Rep.
120; Bigelow v. Calumet & Hecla Mining Co., 1167 Fed.
Rep. 704, 709; Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S.459,
471; Bossert v. Dhuy, 221 N. Y. 342. The activities of the
defendants would not have a tendency to interfere with
competition but would in fact make the competition more
free.
There was no interference with interstate commerce.
All complaints of appellant with respect to the delivery
and erection of presses relate to the refusal of members
of the Association to transport and handle them after
they had reached the point of consignment. This refusal
*caused embarrassment in some instances in a local way,
and appellant alleges that, because men employed by
draymen refused to work, interstate commerce was interfered with. If this proposition be sound, then teamsters
and machinists' helpers employed by draymen could not
legally combine or cease from working, as in every instance, no matter how local the situation was, the contention would be raised that interstate commerce had
been interfered with.
The fact that appellant's profits may be less because
the defendants have directed the machinists not to handle
and erect these presses, does not constitute interference
with interstate commerce. United States v. Knight Co.,
156 U! S. 1,12; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604,
615; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S.197.
Labor of a human being is not a commodity or article
of commerce. Clayton Act, § 6.
.

OCTOBV'r, TMIM, 162.,
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

Irrespective of the Clayton Act, there were no facts
adduced on the trial which would warrant the issuance
of an injunction. Bossert v. Dhuy, supra; Lindsay & Co.
v. Montana Federation of Labor, 37 Montana, 264; Macauley Brothers v. Tierney, 19 R. I. 255; Ames v. Union
Pacifi Ry. Co., 62 Fed. Rep. 7, 14; National Protective
Association v. Cumming, supra; State v. Stockford, 77
Connecticut, 227; Gill Engraving Co. v. Doerr, supra;
National Fireproofing Co. v. Mason Builders' Association,
supra.
MR. JUsTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity brought by appellant in the
District Court for the Southern District of New York
for an injunction to restrain a course of conduct carried
on by defendants in that District and vicinity in maintaining a boycott against the products of complainant's
factory, in furtherance of a conspiracy to injure and
destroy its good will, trade, and business-especially to
obstruct and destroy its interstate trade. There was also
a prayer for damages, but this has not been pressed and
calls for no further mention. Complainant is a Michigan corporation and manufactures printing presses at a
factory in Battle Creek, in that State, employing about
200 machinists in the factory in addition to 50 officeemployees, traveling salesmen, and expert machinists
or road men who supervise the erection of the presses
for complainant's customers at their various places of
business. The defendants who were brought into court
and answered the bill are Emil J. Deering and William
Bramley, sued individually and as business agents and
representatives of District No. 15 of the International
Association of Machinists, and Michael T. Neyland, sued
individually and as business agent and representative of
Local Lodge No. 328 of the same association. The Dis-

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Opinion of the Court.

trict Council and the Lodge are unincorporated associations having headquarters in New York City, with numerous members resident in that city and vicinity. There
were averments and proof to show that it was impracticable to bring all the members before the court and that
the named defendants properly represented them; and
those named were called upon to defend for all, pursuant
to Equity Rule 38 (226 U. S. 659). Other jurisdictional
averments need no particular mention. The District
Court, on final hearing, dismissed the bill, 247 Fed. Rep.
192; the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed its decree, 252
Fed. Rep. 722; and the present appeal was taken. .
The jurisdiction of the federal court was invoked both
by reason of diverse citizenship and on the ground that
defendants were engaged in a conspiracy to restrain
complainant's interstate trade and commerce in printing
presses, contrary to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act of
July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. The suit was begun before but brought to hearing after the passage of the Clayton Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730. Both
parties invoked the provisions of the latter act, and both
courts treated them as applicable. Complainant relied
also upon the common law; but we shall deal first with
the effect of the acts of Congress.
The facts of the case and the nature of the relief prayed
are sufficiently set forth in the report of the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 252 Fed. Rep. 722. The
case was heard before Circuit Judges Rogers and Hough
and District Judge Learned Hand. Judge Rogers, although in the minority, stated the case and the pleadings
for the court (pp. 723-727) and delivered an opinion for
reversal in which he correctly outlined (pp. 734-737) the
facts as shown by the undisputed evidence-defendants
having introduced none. Judges Hough and Hand followed with separate opinions for affirmance, not, however,
disagreeing with Judge Rogers as to the facts. These may

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

be summarized as follows. Complainant conducts, its
business on the "open shop" policy, without discrimination against either union, or non-union men. The individual defendants and the local organizations of which
they are the representatives are affiliated with the International Association of Machinists, an unincorporated
association having a membership of more than 60,000;
and are united in a combination, to which the International Association also is a party, having the object
of compelling complainant to unionize its factory and
enforce the "clqsed shop," the eight-hour day, and the
union scale of wages, by means of interfering with and
restraining its interstate trade in the products of the fac-.
tory. Complainant's principal manufacture is newspaper
presses of large size and complicated mechanism, varying
in weight from 10,000 to 100,000 pounds, and requiring
a considerable force of labor and a considerable expenditure of time-a week or more-to handle, haul and erect
them at the point of delivery. These presses are sold
throughout the United States and in foreign countries;
and, as they are especially designed for the production
of daily papers, there is a large market for them in and
about the City of New York. They are delivered there
in the ordinary course of interstate commerce, the handling, hauling and installation work at destination being
done by employees of the purchaser under the supervision
of a specially skilled machinist supplied by complainant.
The-acts complained of and sought to be restrained have
nothing to do with the conduct or management. of the
factory in Michigan, but solely with the installation andoperation of the presses by complainant's customers.
None of the defendants is or ever was an employee of complainant, and complainant at no time has had relations
with either of the organizations that they represent. In
August, 1913 (eight months before the filing of. the bill),
the International Association called a strike at complain-

DUPLEX CO. v. DEEWiNG:
443.

-

Opinion of the Court.

ant's factory in Battle Creek, as a result of which union
machinists to the number of about eleven in the factory
and three who supervised the erection of presses in the
field left complainant's employ. But the defection of so
small a number did not materially interfere with the
operation of the factory, and sales and shipments in interstate commerce continued. The acts complained of made
up the details of an elaborate programme adopted and
carried out by defendants and their organizations in and
about the City of New York as -part of a country-wide
programme adopted by the International Association,
for the purpose of enforcing a boycott of complainant's
product. The acts embraced the following, with others:
warning customers that it would be better for them not
to purchase, or having purchased not to install, presses
made by complainant, and threatening them with los
should they do so; threatening customers with sympathetic
strikes in other trades; notifying a trucking company
usually employed by customers to haul the presses not
to do so, and threatening it with trouble if it should;
inciting employees of the trucking company, and other
men employed by customers of complainant, to strike
against their respective employers in order to interfere
with the hauling and installation of presses, and thus
bring pressure to bear upon the customers; notifying
repair shops not to do repair work on Duplex presses;
coercing union men by threatening them with loss of
union cards and with being blacklisted as "scabs" if
they assisted in installing the presses; threatening an
exposition company with a strike if it Dermitted complain ant's presses to be exhibited; and resorting to a
variety of other modes of preventing the sale of presses
of complainant's manufacture in or about New York City,
and delivery of them in interstate commerce, such as
injurifig and threatening to injure complainant's customers and prospective customers, and persons concerned

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.'
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. B.

in hauling, handling, or installing the presses. In some
cases the threats were undisguised, in other cases polite
in form but none the less sinister in purpose and effect.
All the judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals concurred
in the view that defendants' conduct consisted essentially
of efforts to render it impossible for complainant to carry
on any commerce in printing presses between Michigan
and New York; and that defendants had agreed to do
and were endeavoring to accomplish the very thing pronounced unlawful by this court in Loewe v. Lawlor, 208
U. S.274; 235 U. S. 522. The judges also agreed that
the interference with interstate commerce was such as
ought to be enjoined, unless the Clayton Act of October 15,
1914, forbade such injunction.
That act was passed after the-beginning of the suit
but more than two years before it was brought to hearing.
We are clear that the courts below were right in giving
effect to it; the real question being, whether they gave it
the proper effect. In so far as the act (a) provided for
relief by injunction to private suitors, (b) imposed conditions upon granting such relief under particular circumstances, and (c) otherwise modified the Sherman
Act, it was effective from the time of its passage, and
applicable to pending suits for injunction. Obviously,
this form of relief operates only in futuro, and the right
to it must be determined as of the time of the hearing.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How.
421, 431-432. See, also, United States v. The Schooner
Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103, 110; Sampeyreac v. United States,
7 Pet. 222, 239-240; Mills v. Green, 159 U. S.651, 653;
Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183 U. S. 115, 120;
Berry v. Davis, 242 U. S.468, 470.
The Clayton Act, in § 1, includes the Sherman Act in a
definition of "anti-trust laws," and, in § 16 (38 Stat. 737),
gives to private parties a right to relief by injunction in
any court of the United States against threatened loss or

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Opinion of the Court.

damage by a violation of the anti-trust laws, under the
conditions and principles regulating the granting of such
relief by courts of equity. Evidently this provision was
intended to supplement the Sherman Act, under which
some of the federal courts had held, as this court afterwards held in Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459,
471, that a private party could not maintain a suit for
injunction.
That complainant's business of manufacturing printing presses and disposing of them in commerce is a property right, entitled to protection against unlawful injury
or interference; that unrestrained access to the channels
of interstate commerce is necessary for the successful
conduct of the business; that a widespread combination
exists, to which defendants and the associations represented by them are parties, to hinder and obstruct complainant's interstate trade and commerce by the means
that have been indicated; and that as a result of it complainant has sustained substantial damage to its interstate trade, and is threatened with further and irreparable loss and damage in the future; is proved by clear
and undisputed evidence. Hence the right to an injunction is clear if the threatened loss is due to a violation of
the Sherman Act as amended by the Clayton Act.
Looking first to the former act, the thing declared illegal by its first section (26 Stat. 209) is "Every contract,
combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the
several States, or with foreign nations." The accepted
definition of a conspiracy is, a combination of two or more
persons by concerted action to accomplish a criminal or
unlawful purpose, or to accomplish some purpose not
in itself criminal or unlawful by criminal o? unlawful
means. PeUibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 197, 203.
If the purpose be unlawful it may not be carried out.even
by means that otherwise would be legal; and although

OCT-OBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the purpose be lawful it may not be carried out by criminal or unlawful means.
The substance of the matters here complained of is an
interference with complainant's interstate trade, intended
to have coercive effect upon complainant, and produced
by what is commonly known as a "secondary boycott,"
that is, a combination not merely to refrain from dealing
with complainant, or to advise or by peaceful means
persuade complainant's customers to refrain ("primary
boycott"), but to exercise coercive pressure upon such
customers, actual or prospective, in order to cause them
to withhold or withdraw patronage from complainant
through fear of loss or damage to themselves should they
deal with it.
As we shall see, the recognized distinction between
a primary and a secondary boycott is material to be considered upon the question of the proper construction
of the Clayton Act. But, in determining the right to an
.injunction under that and the Sherman Act, it is of minor
.consequence whether either kind of boycott is lawful or
unlawful at common law or under the statutes of particular States. Those acts, passed in the exercise of the
power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States,
are of paramount authority, and their prohibitions must
be given full effect irrespective of whether the things prohibited are lawful or unlawful at common law or under
lcal statutes.
In Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.274, where there was an
effort to compel plaintiffs to unionize their factory by
preventing them from manufacturing articles intended
for transportation beyond the State, and also by preventing vendees from reselling articles purchased from plaintiffs and negotiating with plaintiffs for further purchases,
by means of a boycott of plaintiffs' products and of dealers
who handled them, this court held that there was a conspiracy in restraint of trade actionable under § 7 of the

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Opinion of the Court.

Sherman Act, and in that connection said (p. 293): "The
act prohibits any combination whatever to secure action
which essentially obstructs the free flow of commerce
between the States, or restricts, in that regard, the liberty
of a trader to engage in business. The combination
charged falls within tha class of restraints of trade aimed
at compelling third parties and strangers involuntarily
not to engage in the course of trade except on conditions
that the combination imposes.". And when the case came
before the court a second time, 235 U. S. 522, 534, it was
held that the use. of the primary and secondary boycott
and the circulation of a list of "unfair dealers," intended
to influence customers of plaintiffs and thus subdue the
latter to the demands of the defendants, and having the
effect of interfering with plaintiffs' interstate trade, was
actionable.
In Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Association v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600, wholesale dealers were subjected to coercion merely through the circulation among
retailers, who were members of the association, of information in the form of a kind of "black list," intended
to influence the retailers to refrain from dealing with the
listedwholesalers, and it was held that this constituted a
violation of the Sherman Act. Referring to this decision,
the court said, in Lawlor v. Loewe, 235 U. S. 522, 534:
"That, case establishes, that, irrespective of compulsion
or even agreement to observe its intimation, the circulation of a list of 'unfair dealers,' manifestly intended to
put the ban upon those whose names appear therein,
among an important body of possible customers combined
with a view to joint action and in anticipation of such
reports, is within the prohibitions of the Sherman Act if
it is intended to restrain and restrains commerce among
the States."
It is settled by these decisions that such a restraint
produced by peaceable persuasion is as much within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920k
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

prohibition as one accomplished by force or threats of
force; and it is not to be justified by the fact that the
participants in the combination or conspiracy may have
some object beneficial to themselves or their associates
which possibly they might have been at liberty to pursue
in the absence of the statute.
Upon the question whether the provisions of the Clayton Act forbade the grant of an injunction under the
circumstances of the present case, the Circuit Court of
Appeals was divided; the majority holding that under
§ 20, "perhaps in conjunction with section 6," there
could be no injunction. These sections are set forth in
the margin.' Defendants seek to derive from them some
1 "Sec.

6. That the labor of a human being is not a commodity or
article of commerce. Nothing contained. in the antitrust laws shall
be construed to forbid the existence and operation of labor, agricultural,
or horticultural organization i, instituted for the purposes of mutual
help, and not having capital stock or conducted for profit, or to forbid
or restrain individual members of such organizations from lawfully
carrying out the legitimate objects thereof; nor shall such organizations,
or the members thereof, be held or construed to be illegal combinations
or conspiracies in restraint of trade, under the antitrust laws."
"See. 20. That no restraining order or injunction shall be granted
by any court of the United States, or a judge or the judges thereof,
in any case between an employer and employees, or between employers
and employees, or between employees, or between persons employed
and persons seeking employment, involving, or growing out of, a dispute concerning terms or conditions of employment, unless necessary
to prevent irreparable injury to property, or to a property-right, of the
party making the application, for which injury there is no adequate
remedy at law, and such property or property right must be described
with particularity in the application, which must be in writing and
sworn to by the applicant or by his agent or attorney.
"And no such restraining order or injunction shall prohibit any person or persons, whether singly or in concert, from terminating any
relation of employment, or from ceasing to perform any work or labor,
or from recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful
means so to do; or from attending at any place where any such person
or persons may lawfully be, for the purpose of peacefully obtaining

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Opinion of the Court.

authority for their conduct. As to § 6, it seems to us its

principal importance in this discussion is for what it does
not authorize, and for the limit it sets to the immunity
conferred. The section assumes the normal objects of
a labor organization to be legitimate, and declares that
nothing in the anti-trust laws shall be construed to forbid the existence and operation of such organizations or
to forbid their members from lawfully carrying out their
legitimate objects; and that such an organization shall not
be held in itself-merely because of its existence and
operation-to be an illegal combination or conspiracy in
restraint of trade. But there is nothing in the section
to exempt such an organization or its members from
accountability where it or they depart from its normal
and legitimate objects and engage in an actual combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade. And by no
fair or permissible construction can it be taken as authorizing any activity otherwise unlawful, or enabling a
normally lawful organization to become a cloak for an
illegal combination or conspiracy .inrestraint of trade
as defined by the anti-trust laws.
The principal reliance is upon § 20. This regulates the
granting of restraining orders and injunctions by the
courts of the United States in a designated class of cases,
with respect to (a) the terms and conditions of the relief
and the practice to be pursued, and (b) the character of
or communicating information, or from peacefully persuading any
person to work or to abstain from working; or from ceasing to patronize or to employ any party to such dispute, or from recommending,
advising, or persuading others by peaceful and lawful means so to do;
or from pitying or giving to, or withholding from, any person engaged
in such dispute, any strike benefits or other moneys or things of value;
or from peaceably assembling in a lawful manner, and for lawful purposes; or from doing any act or thing which might lawfully be done
in the absence of such dispute by any party thereto; nor shall any of
the acts specified in this paragraph be considered or held to be violations of any law of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254,U. S.

acts that are to be exempted from the restraint; and in
the concluding words it declares (c) that none of the acts
specified shall be held to be violations of any law of the
United States. All its provisions are subject to a- general
qualification respecting the nature of the controversy
and the parties affected. It is to be a "case between an
employer and employees, or between employers 'and employees, or between employees, or between persons employed and persons seeking employment, involving, or
growing out of, a dispute concerning terms or conditions
of employment."
The first paragraph merely puts into statutory form
familiar restrictions upon the granting of injunctions already established and of general application in the equity
practice of the courts of the United States. It is but
declaratory of the law as it stood before. The secorid
paragraph declares that "no such restraining order or
injunction" shall prohibit certain conduct specifiedmanifestly still referring to a "case between an employer
and employees,

..

involving, or growing out* of,

a dispute concerning terms or conditions of employment,"
as designated in the first paragraph. It is very clear that
the restriction upon the use of the injunction is in favor
only of those concerned as parties to such a dispute as is
described. The words defining the permitted conduct
include particular qualifications consistent with the general
one respecting the nature of the case and dispute intended; and the concluding words, "nor shall any of the
acts specified in this paragraph be considered or held to
be violations of any law of the United States," are to be
read in the light of the context, and mean only that those
acts are not to be so held when committed by parties
concerned in "a dispute concerning terms or conditions
of employment." If the qualifying words are to have
any effect, they must operate to confine the restriction
uon the granting of injunctions, and also the relaxation

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Opinion of the Court.

of the provisions of the anti-trust and other laws of the,
United States, to parties standing in proximate relation
to a controversy such as is particularly described.
' The majority of, the Circuit Court of Appeals appear to
have entertained the view that the words "employers
and erriployees," as used in § 20, should be treated as
referring to "the business class or clan to which the parties
litigant respectively belong"; and that, as there had been
a dispute at complainant's factory in Michigan concerning
the conditions of employment there--a dispute created,
it is said, if it did not exist before, by the act of the Machinists' Union in calling a strike at the factory-§ 20
operated to permit members of the Machinists' Union
elsewhere--some 60,000 in number-although standing
in no relation of employment under complainant, past,
present, or prospective, to make that dispute their own
and proceed to instigate sympathetic strikes, picketing,
and boycotting against employers wholly unconnected
with complainant's factory and having relations With
complainant only in the way of purchasing its product in
the ordinary course of interstate commerce-and this
where there was no dispute between such employers and
their employees respecting terms or conditions of employment.
We deem this construction altogether inadmissible.
Section 20 must be given full effect according to its terms
as an expression of the purpose of Congress; but it must
be borne in mind that the section imposes an exceptional
and extraordinary restriction upon .the equity powers of
the courts of the United States and upon the general
operation of the anti-truist laws, a restriction in the nature
of a special privilege or immunity to a particular class,
with corresponding detriment to the general public; and it
would violate rules of statutory construction having general application and far-reaching importance to enlarge
that special privilege byresorting to a loose construction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the section, not to speak of ignoring or slighting the
qualifying words that are found in it. Full and fair effect
will be given to every word if the exceptional privilege
be confined-as the natural meaning of the words confines
it-to those who are proximately and substantially concerned as parties to an actual dispute respecting the
terms or conditions of their own employment, past, present,
or prospective. The extensive construction adopted by
the majority of the court below virtually ignores the effect
of the qualifying words. Congress had in mind particular
industrial controversies, not a general class war. "Terms
or conditions of employment" are the only grounds of
dispute recognized as adequate to bring into play the
exemptions; and it would do violence to the guarded
language employed were the exemption extended beyond
the parties affected in a proximate and substantial, not
merely a sentimental or sympathetic, sense by the cause
of dispute.
Nor. can § 20 be regarded as bringing in all members
of a labor organization as parties to a "dispute concerning
terms or conditions of employment" which proximately
affects only a few of them, with the result of conferring
upon any and all members,-no matter how many thousands there may be, nor how remote from the actual conflict-those exemptions which Congress in terms conferred only upon parties to the dispute. That would
enlarge by construction the provisions of § 20, which
contain no mention of labor organizations, so as to produce an inconsistency with § 6, which deals specifically
with the subject and must be deemed to express the
measure and limit of the immunity intended by Congress
to be incident to mere membership in such an organization. At the same time it would virtually repeal by
implication the prohibition of the Sherman Act, sa far
as labor organizations are concerned, notwithstanding
repeals byiiinplication are not favored,; and in effect, as

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
'443.

Opinion of the Court.

was noted in Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, 303-304,
would confer upon voluntary associations of individuals
formed within the States a control over commerce among
the States that is denied to the governments of the States
themselves.
The qualifying effect of the words descriptive of the
nature of the dispute and the parties concerned is further
borne out by the phrases defining the conduct that is not
to be subjected to injunction or treated as a violation of
the laws of the United States, that isto say: (a) "terminating any relation of employment, . . . or persuading others by peaceful and lawful means so to do";
(b) "attending at any place where any such person or
persons may lawfully be, for the purpose of peacefully
obtaining or communicating information, or from peacefully persuading any person to work or to abstain from
working;" (c) "ceasing to patronize or to employ any
party to such dispute, or . . . recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful and lawful means
so to do"; (d) "paying or giving to, or withholding from,
any person engaged in such dispute, any strike benefits
."; (e) "doing any act or thing which might lawS
fully be done in the absence of such dispute by any party
thereto." The emphasis placed on the Words "lawful"
and "lawfully," "peaceful" and "peacefully," and the
references to the dispute and the parties to it, strongly
rebut a legislative intent to confer a general immunity
for conduct violative of the anti-trust laws, or otherwise
unlawful. The subject of the boycott is dealt with specifically in the "ceasing to patronize" provision, and by
the clear force of the language employed the exemption
is limited to pressure exerted upon a "party to such dispute" by means of "peaceful and lawful" influence upon
neutrals. There is nothing here to justify defendants
or the organizations they represent in using either threats
or persuasion to bring about strikes or a cessation of work

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

;on the part of, employees of complainant's customers or
prospective customers, or of the trucking company employed by the customers, with the object of compelling
such customers to withdraw or refrain from commercial
relations with complainant, and of thereby constraining
complainant to yield the matter in dispute. To instigate
a sympathetic strike in aid of a secondary boycott cannot be deemed "peaceful and lawful" persuasion. In
essence it is a threat to inflict damage upon the immediate
employer, between whom and his employees no dispute
exists, in order to bring him against his will into a concerted plan to inflict damage upon another employer who
is in dispute with his employees.
The majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals, very
properly treating the case as involving a secondary boycott, based the decision upon the view that it was the
purpose of § 20 to legalize the secondary boycott "at
least in so far as it rests on, or consists of, refusing to
work for any one who deals with the principal offender."
Characterizing the section as "blindly drawn," and conceding that the meaning attributed to it was broad, the
court referred to the legislative history of the enactment
as a warrant for the construction adopted. Let us consider
this.
By repeated decisions of this court it has come. to be
well established that the debates in Congress expressive
of the views and motives of individual members are not a
safe guide, and hence may not be resorted to, in ascertaining the meaning and purpose of the law-making body.
Aldridge v. Williams, 3 How. 9, 24; United States v. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., 91 U. S. 72, 79; United States v. TransMissouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, 318. But
reports of committees of House or Senate stand upon a
more solid footing, and may be regarded as an exposition
of the legislative intent in a case where otherwise the
meaning of a statute is obscure. Binn8 v. United States

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

Opinion of the Court.

194 TI. S. 486, 495. And this has been extended to include explanatory statements in the nature of a supplemental report made by the committee member in charge
,.of a bill in course of passage. Binns v. United States,
;:supra; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International Coal Co.,
.230 U. S. 184, 198-199; United States v. Coca Cola Co.,
241 U. S. 265, 281; United States v. St. Paul, Minneapolis
& Manitoba Ry. Co., 247 U. S. 310, 318.
In the case of the Clayton Act, the printed committee
reports are not explicit with respect to the meaning of
.the "ceasing to patronize" clause of what is now § 20.
(See House Rept. No. 627, 63d Cong., 2nd sess., pp. 3336; Senate Rept. No. 698, 63d Cong., 2nd sess.j pp. 29-31;
the latter being a reproduction of the former.) But they'
contain extracts from judicial opinions and a then recent
text-book sustaining the "primary boycott," and expressing an adverse view as to the secondary or coercive boycott; and, on the whole, are far from manifesting a purpose to relax the prohibition against restraints of trade
in favor of the secondary boycott.
• Moreover, the report was supplemented in this regard
by the spokesman of the House conmittee (Mr. Webb)
•,who had the bill in charge when it was under consideration
by ihe House.' The question whether the bill legalized
the secondary boycott having been raised, it was emphatically and unequivocally answered by him in the
,negative.' The subject-he declared in substance or
Extracts from Congressional Record, vol. 51, Part 10, 63d Cong.;
2d sess.
(Page 9652.)
MR. VOLSTEAD. Would not this alRo legalize the secondary boy-'
cott?
MR. WEBB. Mr. Chairman, I do not think it legalizes a secondary
'boycott.
MR. VOLSTEAD. Let me read the lines, if the gentleman will permit.'
And no such restraining order or injunction shall prohibit anyone"from ceasing to patronize those -who [or to] employ any party to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

effect-was under consideration when the bill was framed,
and the section as reported was carefully prepared with
the settled purpose of excluding the secondary boycott and
confining boycotting to the parties to the dispute, allowing parties to cease to patronize and to ask others to cease
such dispute, or from recommending, advising, or persuading others
by peaceful means so to do."
Now, does not the word "others" in that instance refer to others
than parties to the dispute?
MR.WEBB. No; because it says in line 15:
"From ceasing to patronize or employ any parties to such dispute."
MR. VOLSTEAD. . . . Can there be any doubt this is intended
or does, in fact, legalize the secondary boycott?
MR. WFBB. I will say frankly to my, friend when this section was
drawn it was drawn with the careful purpose not to legalize the secondary boycott, and we do not think it does. There may be a difference
of opinion about it, but it is the opinion of the committee that it does
not legalize the secondary boycott and is not intended to do so. It
does legalize the primary boycott; it does legalize the strike; it does
legalize persuading others to strike, to quit work, and the other acts
mentioned in section 18 [now section 20], but we did not intend, I will
say frankly, to legalize the secondary boycott.
(Page 9653.)
MR. WEBB. I will say this section was drawn two years or more
ago and was drawn carefully, and those who drew this section drew it
with the idea of excluding the secondary boycott. It passed the House,
I think, by about 243 to 16, and the question of the secondary boycott
was not raised then, because we understood so clearly it did not refer
to or authorize the secondary boycott.
(Page 9658.)
MR.WEBB. Mr. Chairman, I should vote for the amendment offered
by the gentlemer. from Minnesota [Mr. Volstead] if I were not perfectly satisfied that it is taken care of in this section. The language
the gentlemen reads does not authorize the secondary boycott, and he
could not torture it into any such meaning. While it does authorize
persons to cease to patronize the party to the dispute and to recommend
to others to cease to patronize that same party to the dispute, that is
not a secondary boycott, and you can not possibly make it mean a
secondary boycott. Therefore this section does not authorize the
secondary boycott.
I say again-and I speak for, I believe, practically every member

DUPLEX CO. v. DEEIUNG.

443.

Opinion of the Court.

to patronize a party to the dispute; it was the opinion
of the committee that it did not legalize the secondary
boycott, it was not their purpose to authorize such a
boycott, not a member of the committee would vote to
do so; clarifying amendment was unnecessary; the section
as reported expressed the real purpose so well that it
could not be tortured into a meaning authorizing the
secondary boycott. This was the final word of the House
committee on the subject, and was uttered under such
circumstances and with such impressive emphasis that
it is not going too far to say that except for this exposition
of the meaning of the section it would not have been enacted in the form in which it was reported. In substantially that form it became law; and since in our opinion
its proper construction is entirely in accord with its purpose as thus declared, little need be added.
The extreme and harmful consequences of the construction adopted in the court below are not to be ignored.
The present case furnishes an apt and convincing example.
An ordinary controversy in a manufacturing establishment,
said to concern the terms or conditions of employment
there, has been held a sufficient occasion for imposing
a general embargo upon the products of the establishment and a nation-wide blockade of the channels of interstate commerce against them, carried out by inciting
sympathetic strikes and a secondary boycott against
complainant's customers, to the great and incalculaale
damage of many innocent people far remote from any
connection with or control over the original and act aal
dispute-people constituting, indeed, the general public
of the Judiciary Committee-that if this section did legalize the secc ndary boycott there would not be a man vote for it. It is not the purlse
of the committee to authorize it, and I do not think any person in this
House wants to do it. We confine the boycotting to the parties to the
dispute, allowing parties to cease to patrorize that party and to ask
Qther. 0 mase to patronize the party to the dispute.

478,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. Si

upon whom the cost must ultimately fall, and whose vital
interest in unobstructed commerce constituted the prime
and paramount concern of Congress in enacting the anti-'
trust laws, of which the section under consideration forms
after all a part.
Reaching the conclusion, as we do, that complainant
has a clear right to an injunction under the Sherman Act
as amended by the Clayton Act, it becomes unnecessary
to consider whether a like result would follow under the
common law or local statutes; there being no suggestion
that relief thereunder could be broader than that to which
complainant is entitled under the acts of Congress.
There should be an injunction against defendants and
the associations represented by them, and all members
of those associations, restraining them, according to the
prayer of the bill, from interfering or attempting to interfere with the sale, transportation, or delivery in interstate
commerce of any printing press or presses manufactured
by complainant, or the transportation, carting, installation, use, operation, exhibition, display, or repairing of
any such press or presses, or the performance of any contract or contracts made by complainant respecting .the
sale, transportation, delivery, or installation of any such
press or presses, by causing or threatening to cause loss,
damage, trouble, or inconvenience to any person, firm, or
corporation concerned in the purchase, transportation,
carting, installation, use, operation, exhibition, display,
or repairing of any such press or presses, or the performance of any such contract or contracts; and also and especially from using any force, threats, command, direction, or even persuasion with the object or having the
effect of causing any person or persons to decline employment, cease employment, or not seek employment, or to
refrain from work or cease working under any person,
firm, or corporation being a purchaser or prospective purchaser of any printing press or presses from complainant,

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

BRANDEIs,

HOLMES

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

or engaged in hauling, carting, delivering, installing,
handling, using, operating, or repairing any such press
or presses for any customer of complainant. Other
threatened conduct by defendants or the associations
they represent, or the members of such associations, in
furtherance of the secondary boycott should be included
in the injunction according to the proofs.
Complainant is entitled to its costs in this court and
in both courts below.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded to the District
Court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
MR. JusTincE BRANDEIS, dissenting, with whom MR.
JusTIcE HoLMEs and MR. JUsTIcE CLARKE concur.
The Duplex Company, a manufacturer of newspaper
printing presses, seeks to enjoin officials of the machinists'
and affiliated unions from interfering with its business
by inducing-.their members not to work for plaintiff or its
customers in connection with the setting up of presses
made by it. Unlike Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell,
245 U. S. 229, there is here no charge that defendants
are inducing employees to break their contracts. Nor
is it now urged that defendants threaten acts of violence.
But plaintiff insists that the acts complained of violate
both the common law of New York and the Sherman Act
and that, accordingly, it is entitled to relief by injunction
-under the stete law and under § 16 of the Clayton Act,
October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, 737.
The defendants admit interference with plaintiff's
business but justify on the following ground: There are
in the United States only four manufacturers of such
presses; and they are in active competition. Between
1909 and 1913 the machinists' union induced three of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Bwnmrs, HouMS and CLx

im,JJ., diasenting. 254 U. S.

them to recognize and deal with the union, to grant the
eight-hour day, to establish a minimum wage scale and to
comply with other union requirements. The fourth, the
Duplex Company, refused to recognize the union; insisted
upon conducting its factory on the open shop principle;
refused to introduce the eight-hour day and operated for
the most part, ten hours a day; refused to establish a
minimum wage scale; and disregarded other union standards. Thereupon two of the three manufacturers who
had assented to union conditions, notified the union that
they should be obliged to terminate their agreements
with it unless their competitor, the Duplex Company,
also entered into the agreement with the union, which,
in giving more favorable terms to labor, imposed correspondingly greater burdens upon the employer. Because the Duplex Company refused to enter into such
an agreement and in order to induce it to do so, the
machinists' union declared a strike at its factory, and in
aid of that strike instructed its members and the members
of affiliated unions not to work on the installation of
presses which plaintiff had delivered in New York Defendants insist that by the common law of New York,
where the acts complained of were done, and where this
suit was brought, and also by § 20 of the Clayton Act,
38 Stat. 730, 738, the facts constitute a justification for
this interference with plaintiff's business.
First. As to the rights at common law: Defendants'
justification is that of self-interest. They have supported
the strike at the employer's factory by a strike elsewhere
against its product. They have injured the plaintiff, not
maliciously, but in self-defense. They contend that the
Duplex Company's refusal to deal with the machinists'
union and to observe its standards threatened the interest
not only of such union members as were its factory employees, but even more of all members of the several
affiliated unions employed by plaintiff's competitors and

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.

443.

BRANDEiS, HoLmEs and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

by others whose more advanced standards the plaintiff
was, in reality, attacking; and that none of the defendants
and no person whom they are endeavoring to induce to
refrain from working in connection with the setting up
of presses made by plaintiff is an outsider, an interloper.
In other words, that the contest between the company
and the machinists' union involves vitally the interest of
every person whose co6peration is sought. May not all
with a common interest join in refusing to expend their
labor upon articles whose very production constitutes an
attack upon their standard of living and the institution
which they are convinced supports it? Applying common-law principles the answer should, in my opinion, be:
Yes, if as matter of fact those who so co6perate have a
common interest.
The change in the law by which strikes once illegal
and even criminal are now recognized as lawful was effected in America largely without the intervention of
legislation. This reversal of a common-law rule was not
due to the rejection by the courts of one principle and the
adoption in its stead of another, but to a better realization
of the facts of industrial life. It is conceded that, although the strike of the workmen in plaintiff's factory
injured its business, the strike was not an actionable
wrong; because the obvious self-interest of the strikers
See Pickett v. Walsh, 192
constituted a justification.
Massachusetts, 572. Formerly courts held that selfinterest could not be so served. Commons, History of
Labor in tbe United States, vol. 2, c. 5. But even after
strikes to raise wages or reduce hours were held to be
legal because of the self-interest, some courts held that
there was not sufficient causal relationship between a
strike to unionize a shop and the self-interest of the
strikers to justify injuries inflicted. Plant v. Woods, 176
Massachusetts, 492; Lucke v. Clothing Cutters' Assembly,
77 Maryland, 396; Erdman v. Mitchell, 207 Pa. St. 79.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIS, HOLMES and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

254 U. S.

But other courts repeating the same legal formula, found
that there was justification, because they viewed the facts
differently. 'NationalProtective Association v. Cumming,
170 N. Y. 315; Kemp v. Division No. 241, 255 Illinois,
213; Roddy V. United Mine Workers, 41 Oklahoma, 621.
When centralization in the control of business brought
its corresponding centralization in the organization of
workingmen, new facts had to be appraised. A single
employer might, as in this case, threaten the standing
of the whole organization and the standards of all its
members; and when he did so the union, in order to protect itself, would naturally refuse to work on his materials
wherever found. When such a situation was first presented to the courts, judges concluded that the intervention of the purchaser of the materials established an
insulation through which the direct relationship of the
employer and the workingmen did not penetrate; and
'the strike against the material was considered a strike
against the purchaser by unaffected third parties. Burnham v. Dowd, 217 Massachusetts, 351; Purvis v. United
Brotherhood, 214 Pa. St. 348; Booth v. Burgess, 72 N. J.
Eq. 181. But other courts, with better appreciation of
the facts of industry, recognized the unity of interest
throughout the union, and. that, in refusing to work on
materials which threatened it, the union was only refusing to aid in destroying itself. Bossert v. Dhuy, 221 N. Y.
342; Cohn & Roth Electric Co. v. Bricklayers Union, 92
Connecticut, 161; Gill Engraving Co. v. Doerr, 214 Fed.
Rep. 111; State v. Van Pelt, 136 N. C. 633; Grant Construction Co. v. St. Paul Building Trades Council, 136
Minnesota, 167; Pierce v. Stablemen's Union, 156 California, 70, 76.
So, in the case at bar, deciding a question of fact upon
the evidence introduced and matters of common knowledge, I should say, as the two lower courts apparently
have said, that the defendants and those from whom they

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

BRAwDEIs, HOLMES

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

sought cobperation have a common interest which the
plaintiff threatened. This view is in harmony with the
views of the Court of Appeals of New York. For in New
York, although boycotts like that in Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274, are illegal because they are conducted not
against a product but against those who deal in it and
are carried out by a combination of persons not united
by common interest but only by sympathy, Auburn Draying Co. v. Wardell, 227 N. Y. 1, it is lawful for all members
of a union by whomever employed to refuse to handle
materials whose production weakens the union. Bossert
v. Dhuy, supra; P. Reardon, Inc., v. Caton, 189 App.
Div. 501; compare Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244
U. S. 459, 471. "The voluntary adoption of a rule not
to work on non-union made material and its enforcement
differs only in degree from such voluntary rule and its
enforcement in a particular case. Such a determination
also differs entirely from a general boycott of a particular
dealer or manufacturer with a malicious intent and purpose to destroy the good will'or business of such dealer
or manufacturer." Bossert v. Dhuy, supra, p. 355. In
my opinion, therefore, plaintiff had no cause'of action by
the common law of New York.
Second. As to the anti-trust laws of the United States:
Section 20, of the Clayton Act, declares,"Nor shall any of the acts specified in this paragraph
be considered or held to be violations of any law of the
United States."
The acts which are thus referred to are, whether performed singly or in concert,-" Terminating any relation
of employment, or . . . ceasing to perform any work
or labor,or . . . recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful means so to do; or . . . attending at any place where any such person or persons may
lawfully be, for the purpose of peacefully obtaining or
communicating information, or . . . peacefully per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

BR imEIs, HoLMs and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting. 254 U. S.
suading any person to work or to abstain from working; or
ceasing to patronize or to employ any party to
such dispute, or

.

.

.

recommending, advising, or per-

suading others by peaceful and lawful means so to do;
or

.

.

paying or giving to, or withholding from,

.

any person engaged in such dispute, any strike benefits
or other moneys or things of value; or

.

.

peace-

ably assembling in a lawful manner, and for lawful purposes; or

.

.

doing any act or thing which might

lawfully be done in the absence of such dispute by any
party thereto."
This statute was the fruit of unceasing agitation, which
extended over more than twenty years and was designed
to equalize before the law the position of workingmen and
employer as industrial combatants. Aside from the use
of the injunction, the chief source of dissatisfaction with
the existing law lay in the doctrine of malicious combination, 1 and, in many parts of the country, in the judicial
declarations of the illegality at common law of picketing
and :persuading others to leave work. The grounds for
objection to the latter are obvious. The objection to the
doctrine of malicious combinations requires some explanSSee "Malice and Unlawful Interference," Ernest Freund, 11 Harv.
L. Rev. 449, 461; "Rights of Traders and Laborers," Edward F. MoClennen, 16 Harv. L. Rev. 237, 244; "Crucial Issues in Labor Litigation," Jeremiah Smith, 20 Harv. L. Rev. 429, 451; Principles of Labor
Legislation, Commons and Andrews, pp. 95-116; Hoxie, Trade Unionism in the United States, p. 231; Groat, Attitude of American Courts
Towards Labor Cases, pp. 76-77; 221; 246; J. W. Bryan, The Development of the English Law of Conspiracy, p. 147, et seq.
Report of the Industrial Commission, 1901, vol. XVII, p. cxiv, pp.
515, 556; Report of Royal Commission on Trade Disputes and Trade
Combinations, 1906, p. 12; Report of Commission on Industrial Relations, 1915, p. 135; p. 377.
For attempts to reach this doctrine by legislation see also 52nd
Cong., H. R. 6640, § 1; 56th Cong., H. R. 11667, § 7; 57th Cong., S.
49, §7.

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

BRANDEIS, HoLMEs and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

ation. By virtue of that doctrine, damage resulting from
conduct such as striking or withholding patronage or
persuading others to do either, which without more might
be damnum absque injuria because the result of trade

competition, became actionable when done for a purpose

which a judge considered socially or economically harmful and therefore branded as malicious and unlawful.
It was objected that, due largely to environment, the,
social and economic ideas of judges, which thus became
translated into law, were prejudicial to a position of
equality between workingman and employer; that due
to this dependence upon the individual opinion of judges
great confusion existed as to what purposes were lawful
and what unlawful; I and that in any event Congress,
not the judges, was the body which should declare what
public policy in regard to the industrial struggle demands.
By 1914 the ideas of the advocates of legislation had
fairly crystallized upon the manner in which the inequality
and uncertainty of the law should be removed. It was to
' See James Wallace Bryan, The Development of the English Law
of Conspiracy:"We find little difficulty in attributing the illegality of combinations
to strike or otherwise to advance the interests of labor, not to the
material loss inflicted upon the employer concerned, but to the harm
supposed to result from their activities to the public at large." And
since the judge or jury believe the conduct socially bad and since it
is admittedly done intentionally, not inadvertently, they declare that
the actors are animated by malice which negatives the justification
of "fair competition," e. g., Lord Bowen in Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, Gow & Co., 1892 A. C. 25, "intentionally to do that which is
calculated . . . to damage . . . and does damage another
in his property or trade is actionable if done without just cause or excuse, and .
. is what the law calls a malicious injury."
2See A. V. Dicey, "The Combination Laws as Illustrating the Relation Between Law and Opinion in England During the Nineteenth
Century," 17 Harv. L. Rev. 511, 532: "The very confusion of the
present state of the law corresponds with and illustrates a confused
state of opinion."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEi, HoLMEs and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

254 U. S.

be done by expressly legalizing certain acts regardless
of the effects produced by them upon other persons. As
to them Congress was to extract the element of injuria
from the damages thereby inflicted, instead of leaving
judges to determine according to their own economic
and social views whether the damage inflicted on an employer in an industrial struggle was damnum absque injuria, because an incident of trade competition, or a legal
injury, because in their opinion, economically and socially
objectionable. This idea was presented to the committees which reported the Clayton Act.' The resulting

law set out certain acts which had previously been held
unlawful, whenever courts had disapproved of the ends
for which they were performed; it then declared that,
when these acts were committed in the course of an industrial dispute, they should not be held to violate any
law of the United States. In other words the Clayton
Act substituted the opinion of Congress as to the propriety
of' the purpose for that of differing judges; and thereby
it declared that the relations between employers of labor
and workingmen were competitive relations, that organ-

ized competition was not harmful and that it justified
injuries necessarily inflicted in its course.' Both the
'It was'said that this doctrine "completely unsettle(d) the law .
and set up the chancellor in the midst of the labor organization at
the inception of a strike as an arbiter of their conduct as well as a controller of their fates." 62nd Cong., 2nd sess. Hearinga Before a Sub-

committee of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary on H. R. 23635,
p. 429.
Again, it was pointed out that the incorporation of this idea in the
Sherman Law had "done violence to the right to strike-to cease work
collectively .

.

.

and to the right to withhold patronage and to

agree to withholi patronage." Brief by Samuel Gompers, Hearings
. before the House Committee on the Judiciary on Trust Legislation,
63rd Cong., 2nd sess., vol. 2, p. 1808.
2Compare the following: "There are apparently, only two lines
of action possible: First to restrict the rights and powers of employers

DUPLEX CO. v. DEERING.
443.

487

BRANins, HOLMES and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

.majority and the-minority report of the House Committee

indicate that such was its purpose.1

If, therefore, the

act applies to the case at bar, the acts here complained of
cannot "be considered or held to be violations of any law
of the United States," and, hence, do not violate the Sherman Act.
The Duplex Company contends that § 20 of the Clayton
Act does not apply to the case at bar, because it is restricted
to cases "between an employer and employees, or between
employers and employees, or between employees, or between persons employed and persons seeking employment,
involving, or growing out of, a dispute concerning terms
or conditions of employment"; whereas the case -at bar
arises between an employer in Michigan and workingmen
in New York not in its employ, and does not involve their
conditions of employment. But Congress did not restrict
the provision to employers and workingmen in their emto correspond in substance to the powers and rights now allowed to
trade unions, and second, to remove all restrictions which now prevent
the freedom of action of both parties to industrial disputes, retaining
only the ordinary civil and criminal restraints for the preservation
of life, property and the public peace. The first method has been tried
and failed absolutely. . .
The only method therefore seems to
be the removal of all restrictions upon both parties, thus legalizing the
strike, the lockout, the boycott, the blacklist, the bringing in of strikebreakers, and peaceful picketing." Report of the Committee on Industrial Relations, 1915, p. 136.
.The majority declared that the section sets out "specific acts
which the best opinion of the courts holds to be within the right of
parties involved upon one side or the other of a trades dispute," which
it has been necessary to affirm because of "the divergent views which
the courts have expressed on the subject and the difference between
courts in the application of recognized rules." The minority insisted
that the section prescribes "a set rule forbidding, under any circumstances the enjoining of certain acts which may or may not be actuated
by a malicious motive or be done for the purpose of working an unlawful injury, etc." 63rd Cong., 2nd sess., House Report 627, p. 30;
id. Part 2, Appendix A, p. 20.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRu~ams, HoLMEs and CL&RKE, JJ., dissenting.

254 U. S.

ploy. By including "employers and employees" and
"persons employed and persons seeking employment"
it showed that it was not aiming merely at a lega! relationship between a specific employer and his employees.
Furthermore, the plaintiff's contention proves too much.
If the words are to receive a strict technical construction,
the statute will have no application to disputes between
employers of labor and workingmen, since the very acts
to which it applies sever the continuity of the legal relationship. Iron Moulders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers
Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 45, 52-53; Louisville, Evansville & St.
Louis R. R. Co. v. Wilson, 138 U. S. 501, 505; cf. Rex v.
Neilson, 44 N. S. 488, 491. The further contention that
this case is not one arising out of a dispute concerning
the conditions of work of one of the parties is, in my
opinion, founded upon a misconception of the facts.
. Because I have come to the conclusion that both the
common law of a State and a statute of the United States
declare the right of industrial combatants to push their
struggle to the limits of the justification of self-interest,
I do not wish to be understood as attaching any constitutional or moral sanction to that right. All rights are
derived from the purposes of the society in which they
exist; above all rights rises duty to the community. The
conditions developed in industry may be such that those
engaged in it cannot continue their struggle without
danger to the community. But it is not for judges to
determine whether such conditions exist, nor is it their
function to set the limits of permissible contest and to
declare the duties which the new situation demands.
This is the function of the legislature which, while limiting individual and group rights of aggression and defense,
may substitute processes of justice for the more primitive
method of trial by combat.

