PRYOR v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

PRYOR ET AL., RECEIVERS OF THE WABASH
RAILROAD COMPANY, v. WILLIAMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TE
MISSOURI.
No. 26.

STATE OF

Argued October 8, 1920.-Decided November 8, 1920.

Assumption of risk-is a bar to the action, in a case governed by the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, and does not, like contributory
negligence, operate merely in reduction of damages. P. 45.
In an action governed by the Federal Act, where the injuries resulted
from plaintiff's being furnished, and using, an obviously defective
claw bar for drawing bolts, the Supreme Court of Missouri, applying
a local construction of the common law,-decided that, as the risk was
attributable to his master's negligence, the plaintiff did not assume
it, but was guilty of contributory negligence, which went only to the
damages under the Federal Act. Held, erroneous under repeated
decisions of this court defining the nature and effect of assumption
of risk and adjudging that the Act prevails over state law. Id.
272 Missouri, 613, reversed.

TWE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. James L.
Minnis and Mr. N. S. Brown were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Roy W. Rucker for respondent.
MR. JusTncE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action for personal injuries based on Employers'
Liability Act. Negligence is charged against petitioners
as Receivers of the Wabash Railroad Company.
Respondent Williams, plaintiff in the action, was engaged in tearing down a bridge on the line of the railroad,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

and a defect in a claw bar, which he was directed to use,
caused the bar to slip while he was attempting to draw a
bolt; in consequence, he lost his balance and fell to the
ground, a distance of twelve feet. The defect, it is alleged,
Williams did not know.
Negligence, however, was charged against him, and
assumption of risk and contributory negligence.
He recovered a verdict in the sum of $5,000. Motions
for new trial and arrest of judgment were denied, and the
case was appealed to the Kansas City Court of Appeals.
The facts, as recited by the court, are that Williams was
twenty-one years old, and had been reared on a farm. He
entered the service of the railroad as a common laborer
in August, 1915, and worked for it until his injury in
November of that year, his work being that of "helping
build steel bridges and taking down old ones." He was
ordered by the foreman in charge of the work to use a
claw bar which was defective, in that the claws "had become so rounded and dulled by long usage that they could
not be made to grip the shank securely, and slipped from
their hold when plaintiff [Williams] pressed downward on
the handle, causing him to lose his balance and fall from
the cap to the ground."
The plaintiff stated that to discover the defect required
an inspection of the underside of the tool, and that, in
obeying the order of the foreman, he did not pause to make
such inspection, but used the tool without any but casual
inspection of its top surface, which did not reveal the
defect.
The railroad was engaged in interstate commerce and
the cause of action, under the case as made, fell within
the purview of the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
The conclusion of the court was that "The defect in
the clawbar was so obvious, that the most cursory and
superficial inspection would have disclosed it to the plaintiff." And further, "The risk was just as obvious as the

PRYOR v..WILLIAMS.
43.

Opinion of the Court.

defect. This was a simple tool which, in the course of ust,.
would be expected to fall into such defective condition,
and plaintiff must be held to have appreciated the danger
and to have voluntarily assumed it"
The court reversed the judgment. It denied a motion
for rehearing, -but considered and adjudged "that on
account of one of the Judges deeming the decision to be in
conflict with Fish v. Railway, 236 Missouri, 106, 123, it is
without jurisdiction, and therefore orders said cause certified to the Supreme Court for its determination."
The- Supreme Court, upon considering Fish v. Railway
and other cases, decided that "it was the duty of the master to furnish the servant a reasonably safe clawbar with
which to do the work. The failure to furnish that character of a clawbar was negligence upon the part of the
master. If the defects were so glaring, and the clawbar
so 1atently defective that an ordinary prudent servant
would not have used it, then its use under such circumstances was negligence upon the part of the servant, which
negligence under the rule in Missouri would bar him
from a recovery. But not so under the Federal statute."
In other words, the court held that Williams' assumption
of the risk did not have the consequence assigned to it
by the Kansas City Court of Appeals, but, if it existed,
amounted in legal effect only to contributory negligence,
and that such negligence under the federal statute worked
a reduction of damages and not a defeat of the action,
ard applying these elements of decision, adjudged that
the "case was well tried by the court nisi, and its judgment should be affirmed." It was so ordered.
In its view of the federal statute and the defence under
it, the court erred. Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Horton,
223 U. S. 492; Jacobs v. Southern Ry. Co., 241 U. S. 229;
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. De Atley, 241 U. S. 310;
Erie R. R. Co. v. Purucker,244 U. S. 320; Boldt v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 245 U. S. 441.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

And the requirement of the act prevails over any state
law. Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Horton, supra; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S.
371; New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S.
147; New Orleans & Northeastern R. R. Co. v. Harris,247
U. S. 367.
Counsel for respondent, however, insists that the views
of the Supreme Court upon the ruling of the assumption
of risk is "of purely academic interest and of no practical
importance" in the consideration of the legality of the
verdict and judgment in the trial court. That court, it
is said, submitted the fact to the jury and also submitted
the relative contribution of Williams' negligence and the
negligence of defendants to his injury. But this is an underestimate of the action of the trial court. The court
was requested to instruct the jury that the effect of the
assumption of risk by Williams incident to the use of the
claw bar, and-tbe circumstances under which it was used,
was to relieve defendants from liability "for the injury
resulting therefrom." The court refused the instruction
as it was requested and amended it by adding thereto
"and such fact [the assumption of risk] will be considered
by you in determining the amount of plaintiff's recovery,
if any, under all of the instructions."
.The refusal and modification were assigned as error and
the Supreme Court considered and decided, as we have
seen, that the fact was of no determiningimportance and,
if it existed, only constituted contributory negligence and
could operate only in reduction of the amount of recovery,
not &efeat recovery. This was error as we have seen.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

