UNION RAILROAD CO. v. DULL.
Syllabuks.

with the validity of the trust. But where the complainant
claims in opposition to the assignment or deed of trust, and
seeks to set aside the same on the ground that it is fraudulent
and void, he is at liberty to proceed against the fraudulent
assignee or trustee, who is the holder of the legal estate in the
property, without joining the cestui guo trust." W&akeman v.
fGrover, 4 Paige, 23; Irwin v.*een, 3 Wharton, 347, 354, 355;
Therassom v. ffio7ok, 37 Vt. 454; Hfunt v. Weiner, 39 Ark. 70,
76; Winslow v. 3finnesota, & Paoci) Railroad Co., 4 Minn.
313, 316; Tucker v. Zimmermn , 61 Geo. 601.
The assignment of the policies in question in trust for the
wife and children of the assigor-the trust having been
accepted- carried with it, by necessary implication, authority
in the tiustees, by suit or otherwise, to collect the insurance
moneys for the beneficiaries. Indeed, they could not otherwise have fully discharged the obligations they assumed as
trustees. They were entitled to represent the beneficiaries in
their claim for the insurance'money, and were under a duty to
defend any suit, the object of which was to prevent the discharge of that duty, and set aside the transfer of the policies
as fraudulent and void. It results that the wife and children of Theodore I. Yretterlein. were not necessary parties
defendant.
We perceive no error in the record, and the decree is

.AJirmd.

UNION RAILROAD COMPANY V'. DULL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Argued lovember 15, 16, 1887. - Decided January16, 1888.

In a suit in equity the court, in determining the facts from the pleadings
and proofs, the answer being under oath, applies the rule stated in Vigel
v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441.
The fact alone that after a contract was entered into by a'railroad company
for the construction of a tunnel, one of its employ~s who neither rep-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

-

resented it in making the contract, nor had supervision and control of
the work done under it, or in the ascertainment of the amount due the
contractors, was, without the knowledge of the company, admitted by
the contractors to a share in the profits, affords no ground in equity for
setting aside an award between the contractors and the company settling
the sum due from the company under the contract after its complete
execution, and the judgment upon the award; nor does the fact that the
eniployd was a material witness before the arbitrators in determining the
sum awarded furnish such ground, When there is nothing in the case to
show that he stated what he did not believe to be -true, and when the
weight of the evidence shows that what he said was true.
Under the circumstances of this case the court applies the rule stated in
Atlantic Delaine Co. v. James, 94 U. S. 207, that the power to cancel an
executed contract "ought not to be exercised except in a clear case, and
never for an alleged fraud unless the fraud be made clearly to appear;
never for alleged false representations, unless their falsity is certainly
proved, and unless the complainant has been deceived and injured by
them."

J3ILL IN EQUITY.

plainant appealed,
court.

Decree dismissing the bill. . The comThe 'case isstated in the opinion of the

.Xr. Willian A. Fisher and XA. Charles .Mar9sall for appellant. Mr. Thomas TW. Hall and Xr. Bernard Carterwere
with them on the brief.
Mh'. I 2evett Steele and MAtr. Arthur W.2aclhen, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

EI&P.Ax delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the appellant in the Circuit Court
of Baltimore City, and was subsequently removed into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Mfaryland. Its principal object was to obtain a decree setting
aside, as void against the appellant, certain construction contracts between the Union Railroad Company of Baltimore,
James J. Dull, William ALI. Wiley, and .R.Snowden Andrews;
a contract of arbitration between that company and James J.
Dull, surviving partner of William M. Wiley, together with
the award of the arbitrators, and the judgment entered pursuant thereto; and, also, a written agreement between the

UNION RAILROAD CO. v. DULL.
Opinion of the Court.

Canton Company of Baltimore and James J. Dull, surviving
partner of William 3M. Wiley, together with certain promissory notes given in 'execution of the last named agreement.
A part of the relief asked was a decree compelling James J.
Dull, as surviving partner, Samuel M. Shoemaker, (now deceased, and -whose administrators with the will annexed are
before the court,) and John Ellicott, to refund certain sums.
which they had received on account of the judgment based
upon said award, and on said promissory notes.
The defendants, Dull, Shoemaker, and Ellicott, were required to answer, and did answer, under oath, not only the
material allegations of the bill, but various special interrogatories propounded to them. Upon final hearing, the injunction granted at the commencement of the suit was dissolved,
and the bill dismissed. Of that decree the appellant complains.
Stating only such facts as are clearly established by the
answers made under oath, lTigeZ v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441, 2
Story Eq. §1528, by the exhibits, and'by the depositions, the
case before us is, in substance, as follows:
On the first day of May, 1871, the railroad company made
a written agreement with Dull, Wiley, and Andrews, for the
construction by those parties, for the prices and upon the
.terms therein stated, and to the satisfaction and acceptance of
its chief engineer, of the graduation and masonry of section 1
of said railroad, including a tunnel under the bed of Hoffman
Street, in the city of Baltimore, and such other work as might
be necessary to finish that section in accordance with the
specifications and agreeably to such directions as might be
given by the company's chief engineer, or by his assistant in
charge of the work for the time being. The contractors
agreed to complete the work on or before January, 1873, the
parties expressly stipulating that the time so named should be
of the essence of the contract.
On the 1st of May, 1-871, the parties entered into a supplementary agreement, providing for the indemnification of the
company against all claims or damages arising froth the
tunnel or excavation work under the bed of Hoffman Street.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Shortly thereafter, Andrews, with the consent of the company, assigned and released to Dull and Wiley all his interest
in the original and supplemental agreements.
On the 20th of Decembp- 1875, Wiley having died, and
Dull, as surviving partner, hiwing instituted suit against the
railroad company in the Baltimore City Court, a written
agrebment was entered into between the company and Dull,
as such surviving partner, which is at the foundation of the
present litigation. That agreement recites the completion of
the work covered by the original'and supplemental agreements of May and July, 1871; the claim by Dull of a large
balance due him as surviving partner; a dispute betweLA the
parties as to what was due from the railroad company under
said contracts of construction, as well as for work done and
materials furnished by the contractors; the claim of Dull, as
surviving partner, to be paid for certain stone used by the
contractors, in addition to what was required by said agreements; the claim of the company that the contractors had
not finished the work within the time stipulated, and in a
substantial :manner, to the satisfacti-n and acceptance of the
chief engineer or his assistant in charge of the work for. the
time being,: its claim that it had been compelled to pay
damages ag'inst ivhich the contractors could, with due care,
have gi arded: them; and the claim of the company, that,
after deducting its said demands, it was entitled to recov,- a
balance. By this agreement, all matters of difference between
the parties, and- their respective claims against each other,
were referred to the arbitration of indifferent persons to be
chosen as follows: one by each party, the two thus chosen to
select a third arbitrator, and no one of the arbitrators to be a
lawyer. The arbitrators were authorized to determine such
matters of difference, and- award what sum should be paid
by the railroad company to Dull, or by the latter to. the
former, and the award to -be "final and conclusive in the
premises."
The agreement further provided that the action of Dull,
the baltimore City Court, should, by rule of
then docketed in.
.ourt, "be submitted and referred to the award and arbitra-

UNION RAILROAD CO. v. DULL.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the said three arbitrators, whose award, or the award
of a majority of them in the premises, shall be returned to
said court, to the end that judgment may be given therein in
accordance with the provisions of Article VII. of the Maryland Code of Public General Laws;" further, that the true
construction, meaning, and extent of certain covenants in
the supplemental agreement should be finally and conclusively
determined by Alexander Sterling, jr., esquire.
Pursuant to this agreement, Henry Tyson and. Robert K.
Martin were selected by the parties, respectively, as arbitrators. They concurred in selecting H. D. Whitcomb as the
third arbitrator. By consent an order was passed in the
Baltimore City Court, referring the case pending there to said
arbitrators. Upon full examination of all matters and claims
in dispute, they unanimously awarded $54,159.50 to be paid
by the company to Dull, and judgment for that amount was,
accordingly, entered, in the Baltimore City Court, on the 11th
of January, 1877, in favor of Dull, surviving partner of Wiley.
On the 25th of February, 1877, a written agreement was
entered into between Dull and the Canton Company of Baltimore, whereby the former agreed, among other things, to delay action upon his judgment, and to accept payment of the
balance then due upon it-$47,562.15-as follows: $5000,
July 2, 1877; $10,000, February 7, 1878; $14,000, February 7,
1879; $18,562.15, February 7, 1880; for which amounts the
Union Railroad Company executed to Dull its promissory
notes, as well as interest notes for $1276.86, $1298.14, $976.86,
$993.14, $556.86, and $556.14. These notes, principal and interest, were guaranteed by the Canton Company. The latter
agreed that it would pay each note within one week after default by the railroad company. Dull reserved the right, in addition to his recourse on the Canton Company, to sue -out
execution on his judgment against the railroad company for
any balance due thereon at the time of default in paying any
of said notes at maturity.
The present suit was brought on the 10th of February, 1879,
at which time all of said notes, principal and interest, had
been paid except those due the 1.0th of February, 1879,
VOL. cxxrv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and after that date. We have already indicated what tho
general object of the suit is, and the extent to which the appellant asks relief. The principal grounds upon which it prbceeds are, that at the time the construction contracts and the
specifications and other papers connected therewith were prepared for biddings, and at the time of the execution of those
contracts, Charles P. Maniing was the chief engineer and
John Ellicott the assistant engiheer bf the railroad company;
that, by reason of Manning's absence during long periods in
Ohio, the preliminary arrangements ±or the biddings, the interviews with the parties proposing to bid, the construction contracts, and the general superintendence of the work, for some
months after its commencement, was left almost entirely to
Ellicott, in whom the appellant and Manning had the fullest
confidence; that Ellicott remained in that position for about a
year, when he left appellant's service because- of differences
between him and Manning, who had then returned to Baltimore; that there was no just foundation for any of the claims
of Dull allowed by the aibitrators; that Ellicott "was presented and sworn by the arbitrators as a disinterested witness
on behalf of the said Dull, and upon his testimony, mainly, if
not entirely, the said arbitrators* allowved the pretended claim
of the said Dull, based upon anallegation of the change of the
model for the construction of the said tunnel and also other
claims made by the said Dull, to which change said Ellicott
testified, although in fact no change was made of the execution of said contract;" that Dull himself was sworn and examined before the arbitrators, and testified, among other
things, that he was the sole surviving contractor, and that the
only contractors had been said Andrews, Wiley, and himself ;
that it had learned only recently before the bringing of this
suit that, in an action in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Dull admitted, under
oath, that he\and Wiley had two secret partners in the construction contracts, 11who retained their interests until the
completion of the work and during said controversy., one of
them being Samuel M. Shoemaker, and the other being the
said John Ellicott-;" that Dull, on the same occasion, admitted

UNION RAILROAD CO. v. DULL.
Opinion of the Court.

that "he had paid large sums to the said Ellicott on account
of his interest in the contract, but had not yet fully paid him;"
that Ellicott received from Dull and Wiley on tit account
at least $18,000.
The bill charges that the amount awarded to Dull was "so
awarded by virtue of the said contracts, and by means of the
covinous and fraudulenht conduct'of the said Dull and the said
Ellicott;" that the said construction contracts and the said
arbitration contract were obtained from the company "by the
fraud, covin, and deceit of the said Dull and Ellicott, with
the knowledge of the said Samuel M. Shoemaker;" and that
the said contracts, and said award and judgment, are in equity
void as to the company.
The precise relations which Ellicott held to the railroad
company and to the work done by the contractors, and which
existed between the conftractors, Ellicott and Shoemaker, are
not accurately or fully stated in the bill. It is satisfactorily
shown that while Ellicott, as ]Manning's assistant, conducted
preliminary surveys, located the line of the tunnel and the
railroad, and aided in the preparation of specifications, his
work, in that respect, was done before the letting to the contractors, and was approved and adopted by -the chief engineer.
There is no ground to suspect, much less believe, that, in these
preliminary matters, any undue advantage was given, or was
intended to be given, by Ellicott to the contractors. Before
the proposals were received, and before the advertisement for
letting, Manning returned to Baltimore, and thereafter personally performed the duties of chief engineer. He was present
at the opening of the bids, and personally examined the proposals. In the letting of the work, the company's officers
acted upon their own judgment, and without suggestion or
advice by Ellicott. The latter had no business relations with
Dull, Wiley, or Andrews, either when they bid for the work
or when it was let to them.
Some time after the company had made its contracts with
Dull, Andrews, and Wiley, the latter proposed to Shoemaker,
a gentleman of large means, that he should have an interest
in the profits to be made, in consideration of his furnishing

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

some money in the nature of capital. Shoemaker having the
utmost confidence in Wiley's judgment and integrity, verbally
accepted this prbposition. At an early period in Shoemaker's
life he had received valuable assistance from some of the older
members of Ellicott's family. This circumstance caused him
to feel kindly to Ellicott; and when the latter, at the close of
the recent war, returned with his family to Baltimore, laboring
under serious financial embarrassment, Shoemaker had a strong
desire to sustain him in his efforts for a livelihood, and did
assist him in various ways. In his answer, Shoemaker states:
"And when the said Wiley, unexpectedly to this respondent,
proposed to allow him an interest of one-third in the profits
from the said contract, this respondent, without attempting to
estimate the probable amount of such share of profits, and, in
fact, wholly uncertain whether there would be any profits or
not, mentioned the fact of said Wiley's promise aforesaid to
said Ellicott, and at the same time told him that if anything
came of it he would let him, Ellicott, have one-half of What
this respondent should so receive. There was no contract or
agreemerlt of any kind between.said Ellicott and this respondent on the said subject. Whatever benefit there might be in
the offer or promise to share what might never exist, it was
made by this respondent, and, as this respondent is well assured, was acce-Pted by the said Ellicott, merely as an act of
kindness on this respondent's part, without one thought of any
relations existing between the said Ellicott and the Union
Railroad Company. Had this respondent been base enough
to endeavor to bring about a breach of trust on the part of
one in the service of the complainant, as imputed in the bill
of complaint, it would have been impossible for him to have
thought of presenting unworthy inducements of this sort to a
gentleman of the unblemished reputation of Mr. Ellicott, an
intimate friend of this respondent himself, and one for whom,
on account of his character and personal qualities, he entertained and had manifested a high and sincere regard." These
statements are substantially repeated in the deposition of
Shoemaker, and we do not doubt their accuracy. Ellicott,
referring to Shoemaker's offer, says in his answer: "This

UNION RAILROAD CO. v. DULL.
Opinion of. the Court.

respondent thanked the said Shoemaker for his kindness, and
accepted it without imagining that there was anything in the
relation he temporarily occupied to the said chief engineer to
make it improper, or even questionable so to do."
Under the foregoing arrangement between Shoemaker and
Ellicott, the latter received different sums from the contractors, aggregating $13,698.14. His employment by Manning
was in the fall of 1870. It continued only for about a year,
and ended nearly two years before the completion of the work
in question. So far from the interviews with parties proposing to make bids, the contracts founded upon the accepted
bids, or the general superintendence of the- work for some
months from its commencement being left almost entirely
with Ellicott, (as alleged in the bill,) he swears in his answer and the evidenc is substantially to the same effect-that
Manning returned from Ohio before the letting of the work;
approved the specifications; was present to give all requisite
information to persons making inquiries with a view to proposals; gave such information and performed the whole duty
of chief engineer in connection with the making of the contracts; had the sole and exclusive superintendence of the work
from the very commencement, the iminediate direction thereof
being devolved upon Mr. Kenly, the resident engineer; and
that he, Ellicott, had no charge of it whatever. He alsostates
in his answer .- and the statement is sustained by the evidence
- that he " gave no instructions to the conti'actors, made no
measurements or estimates of an" of their work, exercised no
authority over them, and had n )art at all in the congtruction
of the said railroad and tunnel, his whole work being either
preliminary to the advertisement for proposals or office work
wholly unconnected with the contractors or their compensation."
"Taking the whole evidence together, the utmo-t which can
.be said./s that Ellicott acquired or accepted an interest in the
pr-ofits of construction contracts that were made while he was
in the employ of the chief engineer. But as he had no such
interest when the contracts were made; as he did not represent the company in the making of the contracts; and as he

OCTOBER .TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

had no connection, while in the service of the company or of
its chief engineer, with the supervision and control of the
work under the contracts, or with the ascertainment of the
amount due the contractors, it is not perceived that his mere
acceptance of part of the profits awarded to Shoemaker affords
any ground in equity for setting aside either the award of 1876
or the judgment entered pursuant thereto.
The complainant attaches great consequence to the fact that
Ellicott was presented and sworn before the arbitrators as a
disinterested witness.on behalf of Dull, and contends that
upon his testimony, mainly, if not entirely, the arbitrators
allowed the claim of Dull, based upon an allegation in the
change of the model for the construction of the tunnel, to
which change Ellicott testified. It is, sufficient, upon this
point, to say that there is an entire failure to discredit the testimony of Ellicott before the arbitrators. There is nothing to
show that he did not state what he believed to be true, and,
according to the Weight of evidence, all that he stated before
the arbitrators was, in fact, true. Besides, it is satisfactorily
shown that a very small part of the sum awarded to Dull was
on account of the claim based upon the alleged change of the
model for the construction of the tunnel. Under these circumstances, the fact that the arbitrators were unaware of Ellicott's
arrangement with Shoemaker affords no ground to set aside
the award.
The relief which the appellant seeks is entirely wanting in
equity. .The company has had possession of the work done
by the contractors since its completion in 1873. The contracts
in question have been fully executed, and restoration of. the
parties to their original rights has become impracticable, if
not impossible. Ievertheless, the company, holding on to all it
has received, asks the court to declare void not only the award
of 1876, the judgment of 1877, and the unpaid notes given in
payment of that judgment, but the original construction agreements of 1871, and give a decree for a return of all that it paid
in cash or on the notes guaranteed by the Canton Company;.
and this, without suggesting fraud upon the part of the arbitrators, or proving that it has been injured, pecuniarily, by

RICHARDS v. MACKALL.
Statement of the Case.

anything that either the contractors or Ellicott did or said.
The case comes within the rule laid down by this court in Atlantie Delaine Co. v. James, 94 U. S. 207, 214, where it was
said: "Cancelling an executed contract is an exertion of the
most extraordinary power of a court of equity. The power
ought not to be exercised except in a clear case, and never for
an alleged fraud, unless the fraud be made clearly to appear;
never for alleged false representations, unless their falsity is
certainly proved, and unless the complainant has been deceived
and injured by them."

JTe decree is affbwd.

RIOHARDS v. MACKALL.
APPRAL

FROM

THE

SUPREMFE

COURT

OF

THE

DISTRICT

'OF

COLUMBIA.
Argued December 13,1887.-Decided January 9, 18M.

When a complainant in a bill in equity has been guilty of apparent laches
in commencing his suit his bill should set forth the impediments to an
earlier prosecution, the cause of his ignorance of his rights, and when
the knowledge of them came to him; and if it appears at the hearing
that the case is liable to the objection' of laches on his part, relief will
be refused on that ground.
In this case the court holds that the complainant was guilty of laches, and
refuses relief onthat ground alone.

Tuis case is the one referred to in the last clause of the
opinion of this court in .Xackall v. Richards, 112 U. S. 369,
376.
In the year 1859, Brooke IMackall, sen., made a verbal gift
to his son, Brooke Mackall, jr., of lot 7, in square 223, in the
city of Washington; the father, at the time, promising that
he would thereafter make a formal conveyance of the property.
The son, relying upon such promise, took possession of the lot
and commenced the erection of a building thereon, at the

