HOADLEY v, SAN FRANCISCO.
Syllabus.

evidence .permissible to establish his right of reentry." This
did not declare a new rule, but indicates, in language clearer
than that pieviously used, the intention of Congress in passing
the act of 1882.
If appellee's certificate was forcibly taken from him by a
band of pirates, while he. was ibsent, that is his misfortune.
That fact ought not to defeat what was manifestly the intention
of the legislative branch of the Government. Congreis, in the
act of 1882, said, in respect to a Chinese laborer, who was here
when the treaty of 1880 was made, and .who afterwards left
the country, that "the proper evi~lence" of his right to go and
come from the United States was the certificate he received
from the collector of customs, at the time of his departure,
and that he should be entitled t reenter "upon producing
and delivering such certificate" to the collector of customs of
the district at which lie seeks to regnter; while this court
decides that he may reenter the United States, without producing such certificate, and upon satisfactory evidence that he
once had it, but was unable to produce it. As by the very
terms of the act, a Chinese laborer, who was here on November 17, 1880, is not excepted from the provision absolutely
suspending the coming of all that class to this country for a
given number of years, unless he produces to the collector the
certificate issued to him, we cannot assent to the judgmnent of
the court.

HOADLEY'S ADMINISTRATORS v. SAN FRANCISCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted ')eeenmber 8, 1887.-Decided February 20, 1888.

'When a cause is brought here by writ of error to a state court, on the
ground that the obligation of a contract has been impaired and property
taken for public use without due compensation, in --violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, the first duty of this
court is to inquire whether the alleged contract or taking of property
exists; and the facts in this record disclose no trace of the alleged contract or the alleged taking of property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
Te act of Congress of July 1, 1864, 13 Stat.332, c. 194, taken in connection
ivith the ordinances of the city of San Francisco and the act of the legislature of California which it refers to, operated to convey to the city
the land occupied by the squares known as "Alta'Plaza" and "Hamilton Square" for the uses and purposes specified in the ordinances, and
to dedicate the tracts to public use as squares, and made it.unlawful for
the city to convey the same to any private parties; and the convd'auce
did not in any way inure to the benefit of the plaintiff in error.

THis suit was brought by Milo Hoadley to quiet his title to
certain lands in the city of San Francisco.. The material facts
were these:
Prior to 1848 there existed at the place now occupied by
the city of San Francisco a town or pueblo, which was organized under the Mexican government, and which claimed title
to four square leagues of land, including the premises in controversy. The present ctf of San Franciscp is the legal successor of this town or pueblo. In the spring of 1850 Roadley
entered into the possession of a part of the claim, including the
land now in. dispute. The city of San, Francisco was incorporated by the State of California, April 15, 1851, and, on the
6th of July, 1852, it presented to -the board of land commissioners, organized imder the act of Congress of March 3, 1851,
9 Stat. 631, c. 41, "to ascertain and settle thJe -private land
claims in the State of California," its-clain, as the successor
of the pueblo, to the four leagues of landiheld, as alleged, by
the pueblo under Mexican authoiity. The commission, in
December, 1854-, confirmed the claim .to -only a portion of the
four leagues, Trenouth v. &nanFranis.o,100 U. S. 951, 253,
and the city took an appeal to the District Court.
On the 20th of June, 1855, while this appeal was pending
and undisposed of, the common council of the city passed ordinance No. 822, commonly called the Yan Ness ordinance,
"for the settlement and quieting of the land titles in the city
of. San Francisco." By the first section it was made the duty
of the mayor to enter at the proper land office at the minimum
price all the lands within the city above the natural high-water
iniark of the Bay of San Francisco "in trust- for the several
use, benefit, and behoof of the occupants or possessors thereof,
according to their respective interests." The second section re-

HOADLEY v. SAN FRANCISCO.
Statement of the Case.

linquished and granted all the right and claim of the city to the
lands within the corporate limits to the parties in the actual
possession thereof, with certain exceptions not material to this
case. The third section provided that the patent issued or
any grant made by the United States to the city should inure
to possessors "as fully and effectually, to all intents and purposes, as if it were issued or made directly to them individually
and by name." Sections 6, 8, and 10 of the same ordinance
were as follows:
"SEc. 6. The city .
.
may lay out and reserve upon
the said lands

.

.

public squares, which shall not em-

brace more than one block, corresponding in size to the adjoining block: Provided, That the selection shall be made within
six months .from the time of the passage of this ordinance;
and that the city shall not, without due compensation, occupy,
for the purposes mentioned in this section, after the laying out
the streets aforesaid, more than one-twentieth part of the land
in the possession of any one person."
"SEc. 8. The selection of said lands and lots shall be made
by a commission, to consist of three persons, who shall be
chosen by the common council, in joint convention, who shall
report the same to the common council for its approval; and,
upon such approval, deeds of release to the corporation for the
lands thus selected shall be executed, acknowledged, and
recorded, in which deeds shall be specified the uses for which
they are granted, reserved, and set apart respectivelyr."
"SEC. 10. Application- shall be made to the legislature to
confirm and ratify this ordinance, and to Congress to relinquish all the right and title of the United States to the said
lands for the uses and purposes hereinbefore specified."
No entry of the land was ever perfected under this or any
other ordinance. Neither was there any selection of squares
made before the 27th of September, 1855, when the common
c6uncil passed ordinance -No. 845, being an "ordinance providing for, selecting, and designating public squares,
according to the provisions of ordinance No. 822," and confirmatory thereof. This ordinance provided for the election of
three connissioners to act under No. 822, and to discharge
VOL. cxx-v-41

OCTOBER TERMI,. 1887.
Statement of the Case.

the duties specified in § 8 thereof. Under this ordinance commissioners were chosen, and, by another ordinance, passed
April '7, 1856, they "were granted until the 20th day of April,
1856, to complete their labors." •On the 19th of April,.1856,
these commissioners made their report, by which they laid out
and reserved, among others, "Alta Plaza" and "Hamilton
Square," and, in so doing, they took for each four blocks instead of one, and they also took more-than one-tenth of the
whole land in the possession of Hoadley.. INo compensation
has been made him for any part of the land so taken.
On the 15th of October, 1856, this taking and these reservations were approved by an order of the board of supervisors
of the city and county of San Francisco, then the governing
body of the city. On the 11th of March, 1858, the legislature
of California passed an act,.Session Laws 1858, 52, c. 66, embodying and reciting literally the two ordinances of the common council and the order of the board of supervisors above
mentioned, and then enacted as follows:
"Be it therefore enacted, That the within and before recited
order and ordinances be, and theisame are hereby, ratified and
confirmed; and all the land entered, or to'be entered, in the
United States Land Office, in pursuance of section one of the
first recited of said ordinances, in trust, shall pass and inure to
and be deemed to have immediately vested in the occupants
thereof, for their several use and benefit, according to their
respective interests, in execution of the trust designated in an
act of Congress entitled ' An act for the relief of citizens of
towns upon the public lands of the United States under certain circumstances,' approved May twenty-third, one thousand
eight hundred and forty-four, as extended and applied by an
act of Congress entitled 'An act to provide for the survey
of the public lands in California, the granting of preemption
rights therein, and for other purposes,' approved March third,
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three; and it shall be
the duty of all courts and officers to take judicial notice of the
said order and ordinances, as hereinbefore recited, without further proof, as fully and effectually to all intents and purposes
as if they were public acts of the state legislature.

HOADLEY v. SAN FRANCISCO.

643

Statement of the Case.

"SEc. 2. That the grant or relinquishment of title made by
the said city in favor of the several possessors by sections two
- and three of the ordinance first above recited shall take effect
as fully and completely, for the purpose of transferring the
city's interest, and for all other purposes whatsoever, as if
deeds of release and quitclaim had been duly executed and
delivered to and in favor of them individually and by name;
and no further conveyance or other act shall be necessary to
invest the said possessors with all the interest, title, rights,
benefits, and advantages which-the said order and ordinances
intend or purport to transfer or convey, according to the true
intent and meaning thereof: Provided,That nothing in this
act shall be so construed as to,release the city of San Francisco, or city and county of San Francisco, from the payment
of any claim or claims due or to become due this State against
said city, or city and county, nor to effect or release to said
city and county any title this State has or may have to any
lands in said city and county of San Francisco."
By § 5 of the act of 'July 1, 1864, 13 Stat. 332, c. 194, "to
expedite the settlement of titles to lands in the State of California," Congress enacted as follows.:
"SEc. 5. And 1.e it further enaeted, That all the right and
title of the United States to the lands within the corporate
limits of the city of San Francisco, as defined in the act incorporating said city, passed by the legislature of the State of
California on the fifteenth of April, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, are .herebyrelinquished and granted to thesaid city and its successors, for the uses and purposes specified
in.the ordinances of said city, ratified by an act of the legislature of the said State, approved on the eleventh of March,
eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, entitled ' An act concerning
the city of San Francisco, and to ratify and confirm certain,
ordinances of the common council of the city.'"
Under the authority of the gaine statute, § 4, the appeal of
tlie city of San Francisco then pending in the District Court
-was transferred to the Circuit Court, and that court on the
18th of Mfay, 1865, entered a decree confirming the claim so as
to include the land now in dispute, but declaring that "this

OCTOBER TERMI, f887.
Opinion of the Court.

confirmation is in trust for the benefit of the lot-holders under
grants from the pueblo, town, or city of San Francisco, or
other competent authority; and as to any residue, in trust for
the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city."
Upon these facts Hoadley claimed title to the parts of the
"Alta Plaza" and "Hamilton Square," which were taken
from the lands originally occupied by him" under his entry in
1850. The Supreme Court of the State decided that the title
was in the city, and enjoined him from ' meddling or interfering with the same." 10 California, 320. To reverse that
judgment this writ of error was brought.
.MTr. S. W. H1olladay for plaintiffs in error. J21r. John Currey and Mr. W. C. Belcher were with him on the brief.
.Yr. George Flournoy,Sr., -Mr. George Flournoy,Jr:., and
.Yr. John B. .[woon for defendant in error.
SM. CHIEF JusTIE WA=c,
the opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered.

This case was before us at October term, .1816, upon an
appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of the United
States remanding it to the state court from which it had been
removed under the act of :March 3, 1815, 18 Stat. 470, c. 131.
We then said that "the questions involved did not arise under
the laws of the United States, but under the ordinances of the
city as ratified by the act of the legislature. The act of Congress operated as a release to the city of all the interests of
the United States in the land. The title of the United States
was vested in the city. Whether the city took the beneficial
interest in the prbperty as well as the legal title depended upon
the effect-to be givert to the act of the legislature and the
ordinances, and not upon the act of Congress." For this reason we affirmed thd order remanding the case which had been
removed upon a petition "alleging that it was one arising
under the Constitution and laws of the Unitdd States."
Hoadley v. San Francisco,94 U..S. 4.
The record in that case presented all the questions which

HOADLEY v. SAN FRANCISCO.

-645

Opinion .of the Court.

arise in this except one which is thus stated in the specification
of error found in the brief of counsel for Hoadley:
"It was error for the court to decide that that part of the
act of March 11, 1858, was valid which ratified the order of
the board of supervisors of October 16, 1856, adopting the
plan -or map of the city 'in respect to the reservation of
squares for public purposes,' dnd thereby deciding that plainfiff
has no title, thus impairing the obligation of the contract of
grant, in ordinanice 822, in violation of Article 1, § 10, of the
Constitution of 'the United States.
"It was error, because, under said-decision, that part of the
act of 1858 took plaintiff's property without due process of
law, and without just compensation, in violation of the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States."
This makes it necessary to inquire whether ordinance 822
contains any contract with floadley, the obligaiion of which
was impaired by the act of March 11, 1858, or whether it
vested in him any property which would be taken away without due process of lave if the statute is adjudged to be valid.
Ina the consideration of federal questions of the character
presented by this specification of error our first duty is .to
determine whether there is such a contract, or such right of
property as is alleged. The existence of the contract or of the
right is part of the federal question itself. The Bqdge _Proyritorsv. The Hoboken Cornpany, 1 Wall. 116, 145.
As to this branch of the case the record shows that the
Supreme Court of Caifornia said in its opinion:
"Whatever rights the plaintiff acquired under the Van Ness
ordinance he took subject to the act of 1858, which approved
the survey and map above mentioned. This is true under any
proper application of. the doctrine of relation invoked on behalf of plaintiff. The act of approval ratified the ordinance
822 allowing title to be made under it by a possession designated in it, and ratified also ordinance 845 aud the order of
the justices approving the survey and map above mentioned;
and when the act of 1858 was passed, the doctrine of relation
could vest in the plaintiff no greater rights than he took under
the act of 1858. Any rights which plaintiff. derived under

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the act of 1858 would be subject to all its provisions. At the
same time that ordinance 822 was ratified the order approving
the -map and survey above mentioned was also ratified, and
whatever rights plaintiff took under the act were subject to
the provisions of the ordinance and order so ratified. We find
in the case no trace of a contract between the plaintiff and
any one which ever vested in-plaintiff any rights different from
those accorded to him herein." 10 Califoinia, 325.
To this we agree. When the ordinance was passed the title
of the city to th property covered by the claim then pending
before the DJstrict Court on appeal was imperfect. It never
did acquire title by entry as contemplated in the first section,
and that fiqrther action was required both by the legislature of
California and by Congress before occupants could secure title
under the grants contemplated in § 2, is clearly shown by § 10,
which specially provides for application to the legislature to
confirm and ratify the ordinance, and to Congress to relinquish
the title of the United States. The ordinance granted only
such title as the city was permitted by Congress and the State
to convey. In its legal effect the act of Congress conveyed
the lands to the city for the uses and purposes specified in the
ordinances and the order of the city ratified by the act of the
legislature. In this way the two squares, as degignated in
the report of the commissioners, approved by the order of
October, 1856, were dedicated to public use as squares. -Lands
so dedicated could not lawfully. be conveyed by the city to
private parties, and therefore the conveyance by Congress did
not inure in this particular to the benefit of Hoadley. In
short, the State refused to bonfirm the ordinance, so far as it
had reference to the grant by the city of any part of these
squares, and Congress in its conveyance followed in this particular what had been done by the State.
The judgment is
.Affrmed.

