OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

sey in the case of the Hoboken "and and I.
ovement Company v. Hoboken, 7 Vroom, 540, and they were not elements
in that judgment. The present cases are decided upon the
distinction created by these grants from the State. It has not
been necessary, therefore, for us to consider other questions
raised in the argument in reference to the soundness in point
of law of the judgment of the courts of New Jersey upon the
facts involved, nor as to our obligation to follow that judgment as conclusive evidence of the settled law of the State on
the subject. The new, elelnents which have been introduced
into these cases establish the rights -of the defendants, as we
have declared them, upon the basis of the absolute and unqualified ,itle derived by them under direct grants from the State
of New Jersey. Under these grants they. have and hold the
rightful and exclusive possession of the premises in controversy
agiinst the adverse claim of the plaintiff to any easement or
right of way upon and over them, by virtue of the original
dedication of the streets to high-water mark on the Loss map.
The several judgments of the Circuit Court in these cases
are, therefore,
___
_
Affirmed.
ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
APEAL FROM THE CTRVuIT COURT

OF THE uNrED STATES FOR

THE SOJJTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted January 711.1888.-Decided February 20, 1888.

The decision of this court in Andrews v. Hovey, 123 U. S. 267, adjudging
reissued lotters-patent'No. 4372, granted to Nelson W. Green, May 9,.
1871, for an "'improvement in the method of constructing artesian
wells "to be invalid, confirmed, on an application for a rehearing.
The case of .iendall v. WIrinsor, 21 How. 322, and other cases examined.
The question of the proper construction of the second clause of § 7 of the
patent act of March 3, 1839, 5 Stat. 354, as affecting the validity of a
patent, considered.

Tins was a petition for a rehearing of the case. decided at
this term and reported in 123 U. S. at page 267. The allegatiodfs and prayer of the petitioners were as follows :

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Petition for Rehearing.

"And now come your petitioners, the appellants herein, by
their counsel, Joseph C. Clayton and Anthony Q. Keasbey,
and respectfully suggest to this Honorable Court that, after
having sustained the priority and novelty of the inventidn and
the validity of their original patent and its reissue in numerous
decisions of -the Circuit Courts and in three decrees ofjthis
court, they are much aggrieved by the opinion lately rendered
in this court (123 U. S. 267), declaring it to have been void
ab initio, under the Patent Acts of 1836 and 1839, because
it was admitted that subsequent to the invention and, prior
to the application others,-without the consent or dllowance
of .the inventor, had used the invention in public for more
than two years.
"And your petitioners respectfully suggest that this decision
as to the construction of those acts was reached by reason of
a plain omission and mistake as to the facts and authorities,
and by the failure of counsel, in their abundant confidence
in what they deemed a long-settled construction, to bring to
the notice of the court in sufficient fulness the authorities
by which such construction had been uniformly maintained,
and to explain distinctly that their admission as to prior use
related to the use of only a few wells made solely by Suggett
and MN[udge, who derived their knowledge from the inventor,
and were afterwards defeated as contestants in an interference
with Green concerning the patent in question.
"Wherefore your petitioners respectfully pray for a reconsideration and rehearing on the following grounds, supported
by their brief submitted herewith:
"F-irst. The court, in the present opinion, holds that the
first clause of the 7th section of the act of 1839 protects any
person who has purchased or constructed a, specific machine
before application for the patent, whether it was purchased
or constructed with the consefit of the inventor or not, and
that tl erefore the second clause of the section invalidating the
j)atent, if such. use in public continued two years before the.
application, must be construed to mean a use whether with
the consent of the inventor or not; and, in reaching this concluion, the court declared that the. gedion involv, d had

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Petition for Reehearing.

never been decida by this court.' This was a plain mistake,
probably arising out of the failure of counsel to refer to the
cases. It had been decided by this court the other way in
four well-considered cases, viz.: endall v. Tinsor, 21 How.
322; S6mour v. Me(ormick, 19 How. 96; Ylein v. Russell,
19 Wall. 433; Bates v. Coe, 98 U.. S. 31, 46; and in McClurg
v. Kingsland, 1 How. 202. The charge of Mr. Justice Baldwin
at the Circuit Court, taking the same view of the statute, was
affirmed, although the decision of this court rested on another
point.
"Second. The court in its opinion (page 269) declares that
in Andrews v. Carman,13 Blatchford, 307, the first driven-well
case, 'the question of the use of his invention by others more
than two years prior to his application does not appear to have
been raised.'
"This was a plain error of fact, and the court was naturally
and inadvertently led into it by a clerical error in the printed
opinion of Judge Benedict, as will be fully explained in the
brief. The question was raised. The same facts as to prior
use admitted here, were proved there and fully considered, and
the construction of the statute contended for, distinctly approved.
"Third. Being under the erroneous impression that this court
had not construed the section, and that the construction of it
had not arisen in the other driven-well cases, the court, in construing it, omitted to give due weight to the unbroken currant
of executive and judicial authority in favor of the construction
upon which the appellants so confidently relied that they did
not deem an oral argument on the point necessary.
"They now beg leave to refer to their brief in support of
the assertion that from 1839 to the decision of this case at the
Circuit Court the construction of the section making the consent and allowance of the inventor to a use of more than two
years necessary in order to invalidate the patent has been uniformnly acted upon by the Patent Offico in promulgating its
rules and making its grants to inventors under them, and has
been sustained in verr numerous opinions by the following
justices of this court, viz., Justices Woodbury, Story, Baldwin,

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Petition for Rehearing.

Grier, Nelson, Clifford, Daniel, Curtis, and Blatchford, and by
the following judges of the Circuit Courts, viz., Judges Woodruff, Shepley, Lowell, Blatchford, Benedict, Drummond, Nelson, Dillon, and Wheeler, and by the following judges of the
Supreme.Court of the District of Columbia, viz., Judges Cranch,
Morsell, Merrick, Dunlop, and Fisher, and by the long line of
Patent Commissioners from 1839 to 1870, and has been recognized by all text-books and counsel learned in patent law.,
".Fourth. The principles laid down by this court in a number
of deeisions within a few years past (referred to in the brief)
in applying the doctrine of stare decisis to the construction of
statutes would, as your petitioners respectfully but confidently
suggest (if attention had been properly called to the great and
uniform current of authorities upon it and the extent to which
private rights granted under it have reposed upon confidence
in its permanency), have led the court, whatever might have,
been its own view of this section, to have left its long-settled
construction undisturbed; and that the rule laid down in
United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, would have been followed,
in which case it was said, as to the construction of a statute:
"'While, therefore, the question is one by no means free
from doubt, we are not inclined to ihterfere at this late day
with a rule which has been acted upon by the Court of Claims
and the executive for so long a-time.'
"Fifth. The counsel of your petitioners, in their confidence
in this construction so long settled, failed to explain to the
court, in making their admission as to use, that it was not at
all a general use by others, but only the use of a few wells in
the town where Green made the invention, by Lieutenant
Aludge, a subordinate of his regiment, and Mudge's hired
man, Suggett, who derived knowledge through Green's experiments, and who were afterwards defeated in the Patent Office
as contestants with him, upon full proof of the public use they
had made without his consent or knowledge, and that that
use was &rreptitious and a piracy of his invention.
"Sixth. The construction of the section, as now made by the
court, overthrowing the uniform decisions which your petitioners now submit for-consideration, would produce the evils

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Petition for Rehearing.

and hardships pointed out in the decisions cited, and would,
in the case of all patents governed by the act of 1839, cause
all specific articles sureytitiously made before application to
be protected, and all patents to be invalidated by two years'
use by a pirate of the invention, contrary to equity, and to
the real object of the statute as defined in all the cases in which
it has been construed; whereas not even under the present
act can the patentee be deprived of his franchise by a surreptitious prior use.
1 event . The counsel of your petitioners, still relying too
confidently on the settled construction of the section, wholly
omitted to point out to the court, that said statute does not
apply to Green's patent at all, which is for a 'process,' but
only to fangible specific articles capable of being constructed,
used, or sold, by delivery; and they neglected to refer the
court to the authorities sustaining this position, which they
now do in the brief submitted.
".Eight.
The counsel for appellants referred the court to
its statement in fanning v. Isinglass Co., 108 II. S. 462, that
the ' statute of 1836, 5 Stat. 117, § 6, did not allow the issue of
a patent when the invention had been in public use or on sale
for any period, however short, with the consent or allowance
of the inventor; and the statute of 1870, 16 Stat. 201, § 24, does
not allow the issue when the invention has been in public use
for more than two years prior to the application, either with
or without the consent or allowance of the inventor.'
"They regarded this as clearly showing the view of this court
that this important change was made by the general revision
of 1870 and not by the mere additional act of 1839, and they
did not think it necessary to verify it-by reference to the legislative records.
"A careful examination of those records discloses the fact
that this statement, made by INr. Justice Woods, was strictly
correct; that the Congress in making the revision of 1870
regarded the then existing law as requiring consent or allowance, and deliberately made the change.
"If this be true, the present construction of the section is inconsistent with the View of the court in the Isinglass case, and
with the legislative view in the revision of 1870.

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Petitioners'. Citations.

"To the end, therefore, that equity may be done, and that
this court may, upon fuller consideration, and with the advantage of oral argument, revise its former opinion (if revision be
right and proper) your petitioners pray that the court may be
pleased to take their suggestions under careful consideration,
and grant a rehearing upon the points upon which said decision was based, and grhnt such other relief and order as in
equity and good conscience may be proper.
"Newark, N. J., January 16, 1888.
"JOSEPH C. CLAYTON,
AN'TmoI Q. KEAsBEY,

Of Counsel with Appellants."
-Mr.Clayton and XPr. keasbey filed a brief in support of
the petition, in which they cited: A. Cases cited in their former brief: Piersonv. Eagle Screw Co., 3 Story, 402 ; Pitts v.
Rall, 2 Blatchford, 229, 235; American Hide & Leather Co.
v. Ameriean Tool Co., 4 Fish. Pat. Cas. 284; Andrews v. Carman, 13 Blatchford, 307; Andrews v. Cross, 19 Blatchford,
294; Ryan v. Goodwin, 3 Sumner, 514; Elizabeth v. _Nicholson Pavement Co., 97 U. 8. 126; Consolidated -FruitJar Co.
v. Wright, 94 U. S. 92; -Manningv. Cape Ann Isinglass Co.,
108 U. S.462; -MfcAillin v. Barclay, 5 Fish. Pat. Cas. 189:
B. Cases not cited in their former brief: Henry v. Francestown
Soapstone Co., 5 B. & A. Pat. Cas. 108; -Davisv. -Fredericks,
21 Blatcliford, 567; Brickill v. MAfayor &c.of 2Vew York, 18
Blatchford, 273; H~enry v. Fiancestown Soapstone Co., 2 B. &
A. Pat. Cas. 221; Agawam 6o. v. ,Jordan,7 Wall. 583, 607;
Jones v. Sewall, 3 Cliff. 563; Godfrey v. Eames, 1 Wall. 317;
MeLCool v. Smith, 1 Black, 459; H~enry v. Providence Tool Co.,
3 B. & A. Pat. Cas. 513; Smith & Griggs Co. v. Sprague, 123
U. S. 2419; Sargent v. Seagrave, 2 Curtis, 553; Zendall v.
ITinsor, 21 How. 32.; Klein v. Russell, 19 Wall. 433; Jenidns v. Eldredge, 3 Story, 181, 299; Wright v. Sill, 2 Black,
544; Bates v. Coe, 98 U. S. 31; Evans v. Jordan, 1 Brock.
248; S.C.9 Cranch, 201; Douglass v. Pike County, 101 U. S.
677 ; Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S.645 ; K3ofeen v. De Lancey,
5 Cranch, 22; Brown v. United States, 113 U. S. 568; The

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of he Court.

-Laura,114 U. S. 411; H~eath v. llildreth,1 MacArthur, Pat.
Cas. 12, 20; Arfnold v. Bishop, 1 MacArthur, Pat. Cas. 27, 34;
Hunt v. Howe, 1 MacArthur, Pat. Cas. 366, 373; Rugg 4w.
Hraines, 1 MacArthur, Pat. Gas. 420; MAfowry v. Barber,. 1
MacArthur, Pat. Gas. 563; 6arrollv. Gambrill,1 MacArthur,
Pat. Cas. 581; Ellithorp v. Robertson, 1 MacArthur, Pat. Cas.
585; Blackinton, v. -Douglass,.1 MacArthur, Pat.. Cas. 622;
Wickersham v. Singer, I MacArthur, Pat. Cas. 645; Sdmafry
v. Lauth, 1 MacArthur, Pat. Cas. 691; kpear v. Belson, 1
MacArthur, Pat. Cas. 699; -ovey v. Stevens, 1 Woodb. & Min.
.290; McClurg v. ]lingsland,1 How. 202 LSanders v. Logan,
2 Fish. Pat. Cas. 167; -Howes -v.. ceal,3 B. & A. Pat. Cas.
376; Draper v. Wattles, 3 B. & 4. Pat. Cas. 618; Campbell
v. fayor &c. of 3Stew -York, 20 Blatchford, 67; AcCormick
v. Seymour, 2 Blatchford, 240; S. C.on appeal, 19 How. 486;
XYelleher v. -Darling,4 Cliff. 424; Graham v. JfcCormick,
5 B. & A. Pat.. Cas. 2414.
.Mr. George Ticknor Curtis filed a supplemental brief for
petitioners.
XI . Albert H. Walker filed suggestions in support of petitioners.
MR.JUSTICE BLATCHEORm

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition by the appellants in the case of Andrews
v. Hovey, reported in 123 U. S. 267, for a rehearing of that
case upon the points upon which the decision was based.
The suit was a suit in equity, brought by the appellants
for the infringement of reissued letters-patent No. 4372,
granted to Nelson W. Green, one of the appellants, May 9,
1871, for ail "improvement in the method of constructing
artesian wells," the original patent, No. 73,425, having been
granted to said Green, as inventor, January 14, 1868, on
an application fied March 17, 1866.
The Circuit Court
had dismissed the bill on the ground of the invalidity of
the patent. The 'plaintiffs appealed, and this court affirmed
the decree. In its opinion, it was said: "The patent is famil-

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

iarly known as the driven well patent. The specifications and
drawings of the original and reissued patents are set forth in
the opinioni of this court in Eantes v. Andrews, 122 U. S. 40.
Numerous defences axe set up in the answer in the present
case, .and voluminous proofs have been taken in respect to
those defences; but it, is necessary to consider only one of
them, which in our view is fatal to the validity of the patent,
and that is, that the invention was used in public, at Cortland, in the State of New York, by others than Green, more
than two years before the application for the patent. The
brief of the appellants concedes that it is shown in this case
that other persons than Green put the invention into public
use more than two years before his application was filed. It
is contended for the appellants that this was done without his
knowledge, consent, or allowance. The appellee contends that
such knowledge, consent, or allowance was not necessary in
order to invalidate the patent, while the appellants contend
that it was necessary. The whole question depends upon the
proper construction of §'7 of tile act of Mlarch 3, 1839, 5 Stat.
354, interpreted in connection with §§ 6, 7, and 15 of the act
of July 4-, 1836, 5 Stat. 19, 123." 123 U. S. 269.
Our deciion was, that the patent was invalid, because the
invention covered by it had been in public use more than two
years before Green applied for the patent, without reference
to the question whether he consented to such use or not. The
views which led to this conclusion were set forth at'length in
the opinion, and a further consideration of them, in the light
of the arguments presented on this application for a rehearing,
has only served to confirm us in the conviction that they were
correct. But, as the briefs of counsel in support of the application proceed upon the ground that certain views and authorities, which they think bear upon the question involved, were
not presented to us upon the original hearing, we deem it
proper to state the reasons for our adherence to our conclusion.
The main proposition urged by the counsel for the appellants is, that the question involved was adjudged by this court
in accordance with their views, in the case of Zendall v. Trin sor, 21 How. 322, decided in 1858. In the same connection,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

other authorities, which, it is alleged, were not cited by counsel
on the former hearing, are presented. It is also urged, that
the court omitted to give due weight to what is said to be the
current of executive and judicial authority in favor of the construction upon which the appellants rely; and, that the 7th
section of the act of 1839 does not apply to the patent in
question, because it is a patent for a process.
The question involved arises upon the second clause of § 7
of the act of 1839, which section was in these words: "That
every person or corporation who has, or shall have, purchased
or constructed any newly invented machine, nianufacture, or
composition of matter, prior to the application of the inventor
or discoverer for a patent, shall be held to possess the right to
use, and vend to others to be used, the specific machine, manufacture, or composition of matter so made or purchased, without liability therefor to the inventor, or any other person
interested in such invention; and no patent shall be held to
be invalid by reason of such purchase, sale, or use prior to the
application for a patent as aforesaid, except on proof of abandonment of such invention to the public; or that such purchase,
sale, or prior use has been for more than two years prior to such
application for a patent."
This section contains two clauses, all that precedes the first
semicolon being the first clause, and all that comes after the
first semicolon being the second clause. The first clause relates
to the right of a person, as against a suit by the patentee for
infringement, to use and sell the specific machine, manufacture,
or composition of matter purchased or constructed prior to the
application for the patent, and the use of which would otherwise be a violation of the patent. The second clause relates
to the effect upon the validity of the patent, of such purchase,
sale, or use prior to the application. The questions involved
in the two clauses are quite different. The first clause relates
to the particular right of a particular defendant to use a particular machine, manufacture, or composition of matter after
the grant of the patent, and notwithstanding its grant, and in
no manner relates to the validity or invalidity of the patent.
The second clause relates wholly tothe validity of the patent.

ANDREWS

v. HOVEY.

Opinion of the Court.

Most of the authorities laid before- us and relied upon on the
present application relate entirely to the first clause of the section.

The first case in which the 7th section of the act of 1839
appears to have come under consideration in this court was
that of .fcClurg v. .Kingsland, 1 How. 202, decided in 1843.
But that was a case which involved only the first clause of the
section. The patent was for an improvement in the mode of
casting chilled rollers. It was, therefore, a patent for an improvement in a process. The patentee.invented it while he
was a workman in'the employ of the defendants. They put it
into use in their business. He left their employment, and then
applied for and obtained his patent. His assignees sued the
defendants in an action at law for continuing to use the improvement. There was a verdict for the defendants, upon the
ground that, by reason of their unmolested, notorious use of
the invention before the application for the patent, they had a
right to continue to use it, under the provisions of the first
clause of the 7th section. The judgment for the defendants
was affirmed by this court upon that ground. It held that the
defendants were on the -same footing as if they had had from
the inventor a special license to use his invention, given before
he applied for his patent, and that the first clause of the 7th
section extended to the invention or*thing patented in that
case, although it consisted of a new mode of operating an old
machine, as contradistinguished from a patent for a machine.
The court distinctly held that the words "newly invented
machine, manufacture, or composition of matter," and the
words "such invention;" in the first clause of the 7th section,
meant the invention patented; and that the words "the specific machine, manufacture, or composition of matter" meant
the thing invented, the right to which was secured by the
patent. We see nothing in this case which sustains the posi.
tion of the appellants.
The first reported case in a Circuit Court, involving any part
of the 7th section, is that of Pierson v. Eagle Screw Co., 3
Story, 402, in 1844, in the Circuit* Court for the District of
I-assachusetts, before Mr. Justice Stry. That was a case

OCTOBER T'ER]I, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

which involved only the first 'clause of the section. The de.
fendant had, prior to the patentee's application for his patent,
purchased the right to use a certain number of machines em'bracing the patented improvement, from the assignee of an
independent inventor thereof, and claimed the right, under the
7th section, to use the machines which it had actually in operation, notwithstanding the fact that the patentee was the first
inventor. The Circuit Court charged the jury, that the! first
ciause of the 7th section did not confer such right upon the
defendant, because there was no license or consent by' the
patentee, as inventor, to the use of the machines by the defendant. In considering that question, the court observed, in
regard to the second clause of the 7th section, that it limited
the right to apply for a patent to the period of two years after
the inventor had sold his invention or allowed it to be used by
others. But the second clause was not directly in judgment
in the case. This observation on the subject appears to have
been the origin of much that has been said on the question in
subsequent cases, for this case of Pierson v. Eagle Screw Do.
is generally cited as the leading authority in favor of the position taken by the appellants.
In Hovey v. Stevens, 1 Woodb. & Min. 290, in the Circuit
Court for the District of Massachusetts, in 1846, before Air.
Justice Woodbury, a motion was made for a preliminary injunction, on a patent granted to Hovey. The question arose
whether Stevens did not himself, before Hovey obtained his
patent, discover or construct the patented invention. The
court considered the question whether Stevens bad not obtained a knowledge of Hovey's invention through a workman
in his employ, WVho had. previously been in the employ of
Hovey and had used the improvement, and whether Stevens
'did not copy the improvement from Hovey's, without Hovey's
consent, and before Hovey made his machine public or sold it.
The court observed, that, in such a case, the use of the machine by Stevens, though begun before Hovey obtained his
patent, would be a use by fraud, not contemplated and saved
under the 7th section of the act of 1839. The question was
solely as to the right of Stevens to continue to use the machine

ANDREWS v.

HOVEY.

Opinion of the Court.

-which he had so begun to use before Hovey obtained his
patent. The court -declined to determine the question of fact
involved, as an action at law, to be tried by a jury, for a violatibn of the patent, between the same parties, was then pending, and refused to grant the injunction. As appears by the
report, of the case of Hovey v. Stevens, 3 Woodb. & Mn. 17,
32, the bill in equity was dismissed and the jury case was
tried, and the plaintiff was nonsuited upon grounds not involving those considered on the motion for the preliminary
injunction.
The next case cited is Ptts v. Hal, 2 Blatchford, 229,.in
1851, in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of New
York, before Mr. Justice Nelson and Judge Conlding. In
that case the only questions were whether the patentee had
forfeited his right to his invention by using it in public more
than two years prior to his application, or whether such use by
him was only experimental, with a view to further improvements; and also whether he had dedicated or abandoned his
invention to the public use. The case in no manner involved
the question before us.
In .fcCormiok1 v. Seymour, 2 Blatchford, 240, in 1851, in
the Circuit Court for the Northern District of 'New York,
before Mr. Justice Nelson, the points involved related wholly
to the acts of the patentee himself, more than two years prior
to his application, in respect to his own use in public of the
patented improvement; and to the question of his abandonment of the invention to the public within the two years.
The jury having failed to agree upon a verdict, the case was
again tried, and resulted in a verdict and judgment for the
plaintiff, thus overruling the defences set up. At December
Term, 1853, this court reversed the judgment on the question
of damages; but it approved the rulings below on the above
points. Seymour v. 3eCornicek, 16 How. 480.
The case of Sargent v. Seagrave, 2 Curtis, 553, in 1855, in
the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, before Mr.
Justice Curtis, involved only the questions, on a motion for a
preliminary injunction, of the xclusive possession of the right
by the patentee, and the acquiescence of the public therein,
VoL. cxxv--45

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

after the issue of the patent, for the period of about two
years, and its acquiescence in the claim of the patentee to a
right under a caveat, for about two years before the date of
the patent.
Then came the case of kendall v. lVinso, 21 How. 322,
decided by this court at December Term, 1858. It was a writ
of error to the Circuit Court for the District of :Rhode Island,
where the case was tried before :Mr. Justice Curtis and a jury.
The suit was an action, at law for damages for the infringement of a patent granted to Winsor, who had a verdict and a
judgment. The particular question in the case arose wholly
under the first clause of the Ith section of the' act of 1839.
The defendants claimed a right to use certain specific machines under that clause. The application for the patent was
made in November, 1854. Prior to that time, the defendants
had constructed one machine containing the patented invention, and they constructed others in the autumn of 1854. In
the course of that fall, Winsor had knowledge that the defendants had built, or were building, one or more machines like his
invention, and did not interpose to prevent them. Winsor had
completed in 184:9 four machines containing the patented improvements, and had made on them articles which he had
sold. But he kept the machines from the view of the public,
allowed none of the hands employed by him to introduce persons to view them, and the hands pledged themselves not to
divulge the invention., Among those hands was one Aldridge,
who -left the plaintiff's employment' in the autumn of 1852,
and entered into an arrangement with the defendants to copy
the plaintiff's machine for them, and did so, and the defendants' maohines were built and put in operation by Aldridge,
and under his superintendence, and by means of the knowledge
which he had gained while in the plaintiff's employment, under
a pledge of secrecy-. On the basis of these facts, the defendants'
c6unsel prayed the court to instruct the jury that, under the
7th section of the act of, 1839, if the jury were satisfied that
the machines for the use of which the defendants were sued
were constructed and put -inoperation before the plaintiff
applied for his patent, then the defendants possessed the right

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

to use, and vend to others to be used, the specific machines
made or purchased by them, without liability therefor to the
plaintiff.. The court did not grant this prayer, but instructed
the jury that, if Aldridge, under a pledge of secrecy, obtained
knowledge of the plaintiff's machine, and thereupon, at the
instigation of the defendants, and with a knowledge on their
part of the surreptitiousness of his acts, constructed machines
for the defendants, they would not have the right to continue
to use the same after the date of the plaintiff's patent; but
that, if the defendants had the machines constructed .before
the plaintiff applied for his patent, under the belief, authorized
by him, that.he consented and allowed them so to do, they
might lawfully continue to use the same after the date of the
patent, and the plaintiff could not recover. It -was on this
state of the case that the question came before this court.
The first clause of the 7th section was the only one involved
in the instruction asked for and in that above recited as given.
This court affirmed the judgment and the propriety of the
action of the Circuit Cburt. In its opinion, it observed, that
inventors were "entitled to protection against frauds or
wrongs practised to pirate from them the results of thought
and labor;" that "the shield of this protection has been constantly interposed between the inventor and fraudulent spoliator by the courts of England, and most signally and effectually has this been done by this court, as is seen in the cases of
Pennocke v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1,and of Shaw v. Cooper, 7 Pet.
292." The opinion of the court treated the case as one in
which the rights of Winsor could not be affected, because the
knowledge of the invention had been surreptitiously obtained
and communicated to the public; and went on-to remark that
the instruction to the jury at circuit was in strict conformity
with that principle, and with the doctrines declared in Pennock v.Dialogue and Shtaw v. Cooper. It closed the opinion
by saying: "That instruction diminishes or excludes no proper
ground upon which the conduct and intent of the plaintiff
below, as evinced either by declarations or acts, or by omission
to speak or act, and on which also the justice and integrity of
the conduct of the defendants, were to be examined and deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

mined. It submitted the conduct and intentions of both
plaintiff and defendants to the jury, as questions offact to be
decided by them, guided simply by such rules of law as had
been settled with reference to issues like the one before them;
and upon those questions of fact the jury have responded in
favor of the plaintiff below, the defendant in error. We think
that the rejection by the court of the prayers offered by the
defendants at the trial was warranted by the character of
those prayers, as having a tendency to narrow the inquiry by
the jury to an imperfect and partial view of the case, and to
divert their minds from a full comprehension of the merits of
the controversy."

It is thus seen, that this case not only turned upon a right
claimed wholly under the first clause of the 7th section, but
that it was held that a fraudulent, piratical, and surreptitious
purchase or construction of a machine, like that shown in that
case, was not such a purchase or construction as was covered
by the first clause of the 'Tth section. The decision in that
case does not affect the one now before the court.
It may well be that a fraudulent, surreptitious, and piratical
purchase or construction or use of an invention prior to the
application for the patent would not affect the rights of the
patentee under either clause of the 7th section; but the present
is not such a case as that wliich existed in Kendall v. insor.
In the use of driven wells in public, at Cortland, by others
than Green, more than two years before his application, we
see nothing in the evidence under which such use can properly be characterized as fraudulent, piratical, or surreptitious.
Green's invention was made in 1861. The brief of the appellants at the former hearing contained this statement: "But it
is not denied that in 'this case there is proof that after the
invention by Green in 1861, and his public exhibition of it in
Cortland, the rumor of it spread, and the value of it became
apparent, and other persons, without Green's consent and
allowance, did put the invention into public use without his
knowledge." The application for the patent was made March
17, 1866. It is true that the' driven wells thus referred to
were constructed, some by Mihdge and -some by Suggett, who

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

obtained knowledge of the invention from Green. It is admitted in the appellants' brief on the present application that,
subsequently to Green's invention, and more than two years
prior to his application, Suggett put down four driven wels,
for persons named Copeland, Seaman, Foster, and Samson
respectively, and Mudge, five wells, for persons named Pomeroy, Bolles, Bates, Seaman, and Hicks respectively. But
there is nothing that indicates in regard to these wells fraud
or piracy or surreptitiousness, in the sense of the decision in
Kendall v. Winsor. The invention was made by Green and
publicly exhibited, the rumor of it spread and its value became
apparent, and the persons for whom the wells so put down
were made, had them constructed during the time when,
for five years after the invention, Green failed to 'apply for a'
patent.- Of course, Green, fOom the moment of the invention,
had an inchoate property therein, which he could complete by
taking a patent. The first clause of the 7th section of the act
of 1839 gave to the persons for whom those wells were constructed a right to use* them without the consent of Green,
an4d the second clause of that section had the effect to make
Green's patent invalid because of the use of the invention by
those persons more than two years before he applied for his
patent.
In the case of Sanders v. Logan, 2 Fish. Pat. Cas. 167, in
1861, in the Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, before Mr. Justice Grier and Judge McCandless, the
bill was dismissed because the patentee had abandoned his
invention, and because it had been publicly used, with his
knowledge, consent, and approbation, more than two years
prior to the application for the patent.
In the case of Amer;can Hide Co. v. American Tool Co.,
4 Fish. Pat. Cas. 284, in 1870, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Massachusetts, before Judge Shepley, the question
tried was, whether the invention was in public use or on sale,
with the knowledge and consent of the inventor, more than
two years before he applied for his patent, and whether he
had abandoned his invention to the public prior to his application. On these issues the jury found for the defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

In .Mllin v. Barclay, 5 Fish. Pat. Cas. 189, in 1871, in
the Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania,
before Judge McKennan, two patents were involved. In
regard to one of them, the defence was, that the patentee had
himself used the invention in public more than two years
before he applied for his patent. It was held that, when it
was so used, it was a complete invention, and the patent was
held to be invalid. In regard to the other patent, the defence
was that of abandonment by the patentee subsequently to the
making of his application, the application having been made
in 1855, and the patent having been granted in 1867, and the
invention having gone into use subsequently to the application.
The defence of the abandonment of the invention after the
application was filed was overruled.
In . ussell & .Erwin Co. v. .Mallory, 10 ,Blatchford, 140, in
1872, in the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut,
before Judges Woodruff and Shipinan, the question involved
related entirely to an abandonment of the invention and io
the effect of the acts of the patentee within two years prior
"
to the application.
In Jones v. Sewall, 3 Cliff. 563, in 1873, in the Circuit Court
for the District of Massachusetts, before Mr. Justice Clifford, it
was set up as a defence, that the several improvements covered
by the patent sued on were in public use and on sale more
than two years before the patentee made his application for
the patent. The court overruled the defence, holding that
there was no evidence to show that the inventions, or either
of them, were in public use or on sale more than two years
before the inventor applied for a patent, or for any shorter
period, with his consent and allowance, or that he had, any
knowledge of any such sale or public use at the time it was
made; *andthat, on the contrary, the evidence showed that he
never gave his consent to any such sales, and that he constantly
asserted that he intended to apply for a patent. The decision
was placed upon the ground, that such consent and allowance
were necessary to the invalidity of the patent. This was a
direct adjudication upon the point involved in the present
,case.

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

In Klein v. luRsell, 19 Wall. 433, at October Term, 1873, the
defence was want of novelty. The plaintiff had a judgment,
which was affirmed by this court. At the trial, the defendant
requested'the court to charge the jury: "1st. That the invention, as described in the patent of February, 1870, is the treatment of bark-tanned sheep and lamb skins by the employment
of fat liquor, and, if such treatment was known to others, and
more than two years before the plaintiff applied for his patent,
his patent is void." He also requested the court to instruct
the jury: "'7th. That, if fat liquor had been used substantially
in the manner specified in the plaintiff's patent, for the purpose
of rendering any kind of leather soft and supple, more than
two years before the plaintiff applied for a patent, the plaintiff
cannot recover, even though it had not be( n so used in dressing
bark-tanned lamb or sheep skins." These instructions were
refused, and the failure to give them was alleged as error.
The defendant in error contended, in this court, that the first
request did not correctly or fully describe the invention; that
the employment of fat liquor merely was not the whole of the
invention, but that it was the employment of fat liquor in the
condition and manner described in the specification; and that
the refusal to charge the seventh request was proper.
In regard to the first request, this court said, that the instruction was properly refused, and that it stated inaccurately the
rule of law which it involved. The court added: "A patent
relates back, where the question of novelty is in issue, to the
date of the invention, and not to the time of the application
for its issue. The jury had already been sufficiently instructed
upon the subject. The instruction assumes that the reissue
was for the use of fat liquor, without reference to the point
whether it were hot or cold." The court then proceeded to
hold, that the two claims of. the patent sued on required that
the fat liquor should be heated, and that, therefore, the first
instruction asked was improper. It ii quite apparent that the
court considered only the issue of novelty, and that it did not
pass upon the question involved in the present case.
The seventh request, like the first, was inaccurate, because it
referred to the time of the application, and not to the date of

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the invention; and, in regard to the seventh request, the court
merely said, that it was satisfied with the rulings of the court
below in regard to that request and four others which, it stated,
might be "grouped and disposed of together ;" and it added,
that neither of them required any special remark. We cannot.
regard the case of Klein v. Ruzssell as adjudicating 'the question now presented.
In Henry v. TFancestown Co., 2 B. & A. Pat. Cas. 221, in
1876, in the Circuit Court for the District of New Eampshire,
before Judge Shepley, the defence was the public use and sale
of the invention by the patentee more than two years before
he applied for his patent. It was held that the use and sales
by him were experimental.
In Consolidxted Fruit-Jar Co. v. IV'ight, 94 U. S. 92, at
October Term, 1876, a patent granted in 1870, on an application made in January, 1868, the invention having been completed in June, 1859, was held void, because (1) there was a
purchase, sale, and prior use of the invention more than two
years before the application, and (2) at the time of the application the invention had been abandoned to the public. The
sale and prior use were by the inventor himself. This case
does not adjudge the point here involved.
In -Jellelerv. -Darling,4 Cliff. 424, in 1878, in the Circuit
Court for the District of -Massachusetts, before Mr. Justice
Clifford, the original patent was issued in 1871, under the act
of July 8, 1870, and was divided, on its subsequent surrender,
into two reissued patents•. No question arose in the case under
the act of 1839.
So, too, the case of Henry v. Providence Tool Co., 3 B. &
A. Pat. Cas. 501. in 1878, in the Circuit Court for the District
of Rhode Island, before ir. Justice Clifford, arose under the
act of 1870.
In -Draperv. Wattlev, 3 B. & A. Pat. Cas. 618, in 1878, in the
Circuit Court for .the District of Massachusetts, before Judge
Lowell, the original patent was issued in 1869, on an applica,
tion made in June, 1868. The court held that, under the 7th
section of the act of 1839, the sale or use more than two years
prior to the application must have been with the consent or

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the*Court.

allowance of the inventor, in order to invalidate the patent,
and that the patent was not invalidated by the sale by the
inventor more than two years before he applied for his patent
of an article which did not embody the whole of his invention
as subsequently patented. The point involved in the present
case was thus directly adjudged.
In Bates v. Coe, 98 U. S. 31, at October Term, 1878, the
original patent was issued in 1863. Mr. Justice Clifford, in'
delivering the opinion of the court, stated, that the answer
did not set up as a defence that the invention had been in
public use or on sale in this country for more than two years
before the application for the patent, and that.there was nothing in the record to support that proposition, if it had been
well pleaded. His observation, therefore, citing Pierson v.
EagleScrew Go., 3 Story, 402, that, undei the '7th section of
the act of 1839, the public use or sale, in order to defeat the
right of the inventor to the patent, must have been with his
consent and allowance, for more than two years prior to the
application, was an observation made in regard to a point not
in issue or in judgment.
'In Benry v. Francestowm Co., 5 B. & A. Pat. Cas. 108, in
the Circuit Court for the District of New Hampshire, in 1880,
before Judge Lowell, the patent had been granted in 1859, on
an application filed in 1857. On proof that the inventor had,
more than two years prior to his application, sold articles containing his invention, not experimentally, the patent was held
invalid.
In GC'raamv. XeoC6mik, 10 Bissell, 39, and 5 B. & A.
Pat. Cas. 247, in the Circuit Court for the lorthern District of
Illinois, in 1880, before Judge Drummond, the patent having
been granted in 1868, the question was as to a use- or sale by
the inventor more than two years before his application; and
it was held that, as a matter of fact, the sale and use by him
were experimental.
In Brickil v. The -Mayor, 18 Blatchford, 273, in 1880, in
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, before Judge Wheeler, the patent had been granted in 1868, and
the defendant, the city of New York, set up a right to use the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

invention, which was for the combination of a heating appara.
tus with a steam fire engine, by reason of the fact that the
patentee had made it while in the employ of the Fire Department of the city, and had attached it to two of the city fire
engines. The court held, notwithstanding the construction
put upon the first clause of § 7 of the act of 1839 by this court
in XfcClurg v. Eingslnd,1 How. 202, that the defendants had
acquired no right beyond the right to use the specific machines
constructed prior to the application for the patent.
In Campbell v. :The ffayor, 20 Blatchford, 67, in 1881, in
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, before Judge Wheeler, the patent having been granted in 1864,
and the invention having been made, sold, and used by others
than 'the patentee after he had invented it, and more than two
years before he applied for his patent, but without his consent
and allowance, it was held by the court, that, under the second clause of the 7th section of the act of 1839, the public use
and sale having been without the consent or allowance of the
inventor, the patent was not invalid. This was a direct adjudication upon the point involved in the present case.
In Davis v. Iiredericks, 21 Blatchford, 556, in 1884, in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, before
Judge Wheeler, the patent having been granted in 1868, the
invention had got into public use and on sale more than two
years prior to the application for the patent, but without the
inventor's consent or allowance. The court held, following
Campbell v. Te 3-fayor, that the patent was not invalid, thus
adjudging the point in question here.
Reference is also made in the brief for the appellants, to
twelve cases reported in I MacArthur's Patent Cases, running
from 1841 to 1859, decided by the judges of the Circuit and
Supreme Courts of the District of Columbia, on appeals from
the Commissioner of Patents; but in none of them was the
point here involved in judgment. In Heata v. llildret, p. 12,
no question arose under the act of 1839. In Anold v. Bishop,
p. 27, consent by the applicant to the use of his invention for
more than two years prior to his application was shown. In
HZunt v. _1owe, p. 366, the sile was made by the inventor.

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.
In Rugg v. Haines, p. 420, the use and sale were with the
consent and allowance of the applicant. In MAfowry v. Barber,
p. 563, the making and selling were by the applicant. In
Carroll v. Gambrill, p. 581, the applicant was defeated upon
the ground of estoppel and of abandonment of the invention.
In Ellithop v. Robertson, p. 585, he was defeated upon the
ground of laches on his part, amounting to abandonment., In
-Blackintom v. Douglass,p. 622, there was public use with the
consent of the inventor. This was also the case in Justice v.
Jones, p. 635. In Mickersham v. Singer, p. 645, there were
abandonment by the inventor and consent and allowance by
him. In Savary v. Lauth, p. 691, the applicants were defeated
on the ground of laches by them and presumed acquiescence.
In Spear v. Belson, p. 699, it was held that laches and delay
on the part of the applicant had caused a forfeiture of his
right.
The review we have given of the cases now cited on behalf
, of the appellants shows no adjudication by this court on the
question involved, and a direct adjudication as to the effect
of the second clause of the 7th section of the act of 1839, in
accordance with that-contended for by the appellants, in only
four cases in Circuit Courts (not including Andrews v. Ca.
man). To the contrary effect is the case of Egbert v. Lipp
mann, 15 Blatchford, 295, commented on in the former opinion
123 U. S. 270, 271.
It is alleged by the appellants, that this court was in error
in stating, as it did in its former opinion, (123 U. S.269,) that
in Andrews v. Carman, 13 Blatchford, 307, 324, the question
of the use of Green's invention by others more than two years
prior to his application does not appear to have been raised;
that it was in fact raised; and that the inference to the contrary grows out of a clerical error in the published opinion in
Andrews v. Carnan. It may be accepted that this is so, but
the question of law involved is the very question now under
consideration.
It is also alleged that the same question was distinctly raised,
in proof and argument, in the interference case between Green
and Suggett respecting this invention, and that Green's patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was thereafter granted, with the understanding in the Patent
Office that the Cortland wells now in question had been constructed subsequently to Green's invention and more than two
years before, his application. But patents are often granted
with a view to leaving open, to be decided by the courts,
questions which the Patent Office does not deem it proper to
adjudicate against the applicant by withholding the patent.
It is also urged, that, in the rules of the Patent Office, promulgated between the time of the passage of the act of March
3, 1839, and the enactment of the act of July 8, 1870, it was
made known to applicants for patents that a'patent would
not be granted if the invention had been in public use or on
sale, with the consent and allowance of the inventor, for more
than two years before his application. It was undoubtedly
true, that such a state of facts was sufficient ground for withholding a patent; but the promulgation and enforcement of
such a rule cannot be regarded as having the effect of a judicial or authoritative adjudication of the question under consideration.
The argument sought to be founded upon the various phases
assumed by the provisions of the act of July 8, 1870, in its
passage through the two Houses of Congress, is very unsafe
and unreliable, as a basis of judicial action, particularly when
the only inference sought to be drawn is one as to what view
Congress took of the act of 1839, in enacting the act of 1870.
If any inference is to be drawn on the subject, it can only
properly be drawn from the act of 1870 as it stands on the
statute book, and that inference is commented on in the fokmer
opinion of this court; at page 275 of 123 U. S.
The doctrine invoked by. the appellants, that where, the
meaning of a statute has been settled by judicial construction,
that construction becomes a part of the statute, is not applicable to the present case. A question arising in regard to the
construction of a statute of the United States concerning patents for inventions cannot be regarded as judicially settled
when it has not been so settled by .thehighest judicial authority
which can pass upon the question. The earliest decision of a
Circuit Court, directly adjudging the point here involved, was

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.

Opinion of the Court.
in 1873. This court has always had jurisdiction to review
suits on patents to a specified extent, and that jurisdiction was
extended by § 56 of the act of July 8th, 1870, 16 Stat. 207,
to writs of error and appeals, in such suits, without regard to
the sum or value in dispute. No question arising in any such
case, reviewable by this court, can be regarded as finally settled, so as to establish the law for like cases, until it has been
determined by this court. This view of the matter has been
applied by this court in analogous cases. Thus, in Wilsom v.
City Bdnk, 17 Wall. 473, a decision was made as to the constructi~n of § 35 and 39 of the bankruptcy act of March
2, 1867; which, this court said in its opinion, was contrary to
the view taken by "a large number of the district judges, to
whom the administration of the bankrupt law is more immediately confided." So, too, in Ex yate Wilson, (114 U. S.
417,) as to the proper construction of the constitutional provision that "no person shall be held to answer for a capital,
or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury," and as to what criminal prosecutions
required an indictment, and in what an information was allowable, this court said (p. 425): "Within the last fifteen years,
prosecutions by information have greatly increased, and the
general current of opinion in the Circuit and District Courts
has been towards sustaining them for any crime, a conviction
of which would not at common law have disqualified the convict to be a -witness." The court cited seven cases in the courts
of the United States, besides the -one before it, which had
adopted such view; but that" view was overruled, and a contrary one established.
Nor is this a case for the application of the doctrine, that, in
cases of ambiguity, the practice adopted by an executive department of the Government in interpreting and administering a
statute is to be taken as some evidence of its proper construction.
The question before us, as to the validity of a patent, by reason
of pretxisting acts or omissions of the inventor, of the characfer of those involved in the present case, is not a question of
executive administration, but is properly a judicial question.
Although it may be a question which, to some extent, may

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

come under the cognizance of the Commissioner of Patents,
in -granting a patent, yet, like all the questions passed upon
by him in granting a patent, which are similar in character
to the question here involved, his determination thereof, in
granting a particular patent, has never been looked upon as
concluding the determination of the courts in regard to those
questions, respecting such particular patent, and. a,fotiori,
respecting other patents.
It is contended for the appellants, that the claim of the
Green patent is for a process, being for "the process 'of constructing -wells by driving or forcing an instrument into the
ground until it is projected into the water, without removing
the earth upward as it is in boring, substantially as herein described;" that the Ith section of the act of 1839 applies only
to "a mac'ue, manufacture, or composition of matter;" and
that, therefore, that section does not apply to the present case.
In addition to the view to the contrary taken by this court in
.McClurg v. Xingslad,, 1 How. 202, before commented on,
it was held by this court in Beedle v. Bennett, 122 U. S. 71,
a suit on this very patent, that the patent covers the process
of draWing water from the earth by means of a well driven in
the manner described in the patent, and that the use of a well
so constructed was, therefore, a continuing infringement, because every time water was drawn from it the patented process was necessrily used.
The most plausible argument presented on the pkrt of the
appellants is, that, under §§ 6, 7,and 15 of the act of Xuly 4,
1836, a patent was invalid if the thing invented had been in
public use or on sale, with the consent and allowance of the
inventor, prior to iis. application for the patent; that § 7 of
the act of 1839 was intended'"only to limit the effect on the
validity of the patent.-of the acquisition of single specimens
of the patented. invention; that the interests of purchasers or
consti uctors of shch spcific articles were the sole objects of
that section; that the sesond cla.ise of the section was intended only to provide 'that.the pat6tee should hold his right
against the g~ner- pubtis unless there was prdof of abandonment. by him, or .tudless.the purchasb, 'sa1e, or -prioruse by or to

ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

individuals who had acquired such specific articles, had been
for more than two years prior to the application for the patent;
that in this respect alone were the provisions of the act of 1836.
intended to be modified; and that a defendant, in order to
show the invalidity of a patent, under § 7 of the act of 1839,
must show that he claims exemption from liability to the patentee because he purchased or constructed a specific article
covered by the patent prior to the application therefor, and
must show that the inventi6n was abandoned or that the purchase, sale, or prior use, or construction of the specific article
occurred more than two years before the application for the
patent, and with the consent and allowance of the inventor.
But our views in regard to the proper construction of the
7th section do not admit the soundness of this contention, and
were fully set forth in the former opinion.
It is proper to notice the suggestion, that there is no deQlaration in the 7th section of the act of- 1839, that either in the
case of an abandonment of the invention, or of the existence,
for more than two,years prior to the application, of the purchase, sale, or prior use referred to in the second clause of the
section, the patent shall be held to be invalid; and the further
suggestion, that there is only a hypothetical implication that
the patent shall be invalid in the excepted cases. But we cannot so interpiet the statute. Under §§ 6, 1, and 15 of the act
of 1836, a patent was made invalid if, at the time of the application'therefor, the invention had been in public use or on sale,
with the consent or allowance of the patentee, however short
the time. The second clause of the 7th section seems to us to
clearly intend, that, where the purchase, sale, or prior use referred to in it has been for more than two years prior to the
application, the patent shall be held to be invalid, without
regard to the consent or allowance of the inventor. Otherwise
the statute cannot be given its full effect and meaning.
The result of these views is that
Ihe ajpplicationj'ora rekearing is denied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
ANDREWS V. CoNE. Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Minnesota.
Mui. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD
,delivered the opinion of the court. This is an appeal by the plain*
tiffs in a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Minnesota, from a decree dismissing the bill. The
sult was brought for the infringement of the "driven well" patent
whieh was the subject of the decision of this court in Andrews v.
Hovey, 123"U. 9. 267, and in which case an application for a rehearing has just been denied. The decree below in Andrews v. Hovey
-dismissed the bill, and this court affirmed it, holding the patent to
have been invalid. In the present case there is a written stipulation, filed in this court, signed by the counsel of record here, that
this case shall abide the result of the case of Andrews v. Hovey, in
this court, and that the decree and mandate herein shall be the same
-as the decree and mandate in that case, except that no costs shall
be taxed or awarded, or disbursements or officers' fees allowed or
-awarded, in this case, in favor of or against either party hereto, and
that each party shall pay. his own costs and disbursements. In
.accordance with such stipulation,
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, subject to the above
recitedprovisions of the stipulation.
Mr.. George F. Edmunds and 31r. J. C. Clayton for appellants.

31r. Thomas Wilson for appellee.

