OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

BOYD v. WYLY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued December 14, 15, 1887.--Decided January9, 1888.

On a consideration of all the proof in this case the court holds (1) That
Boyd was a party to the proceedings which resulted in his removal from
his office as executor; and (2) that there is no reason to reverse the
decree of the court below on the merits.

Tmis was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Louisiana on Sep-

tember 10, 1881,'on behalf of Mfary E. R. Boyd, wife of Frederick W. Boyd, by her son and next friend, James R. Boyd,
citizens of Wisconsin, against William G. Wyly and Charles
Egelly, of the parish of East Carroll, citizens of Louisiana, and
to which by an amendment Frederick W. Boyd, of Wisconsin,
was made an additional defendant as dative testamentary executor of the last will of James Railey, late of Adams County,
Mississippi. The bill averred that on February 1, 1860, James
Railey, the father of the c6mplainant, made his last will, and
died in the summer of that year, leaving large estates in Mississippi, Arkansas, and Louisiana, which were disposed of by
the will, bequeathing to the complainant a certain plantation
in the parish of Carroll, Louisiana, known as the Raleigh
plantation; that James G. Carson was named in the will as
executor; that the will was duly probated in the proper court
of the parish of Carroll, and that Carson qualified according
to law as executor, and took upon himself the burden of the
execution of the will; that an inventory and appraisement of
the property of the succession in the parish of Carroll were
made on December 12, 1860, and that the lands of said Raleigh
plantation were valued at $119,393, which was the fair and
reasonable value of the same; that thereafter, Carson having
died, Frederick W. Boyd, the husband of the complainant, was
duly appointed dative testamentary executor of said will, and

BOYD v. WYLY.
Statement of the Case.

qualified as such, ,and that on July 16, 1866, in due course of
administration, he caused the said Raleigh plantation to be
again inventoried and appraised as containing 1935 acres at
$55 per acre, making in the aggregate $95,645, which was
alleged to be the fair and reasonable value of the same at that
time.
The bill further alleged that in July, 1868, the defendants
Wyly and Egelly combined and confederated with Edward
Sparrow and J. West Montgomery, attorneys at law, and
with divers other persons, to defraud the complainant by procuring, under the forms of law, a sale to Wyly of the Raleigh
plantation at a price far below its real value; that to accomplish the said fraud they took advantage of the temporary
absence of Frederick W. Boyd, the dative testamentary, executor, and instituted on July 16, 1868, proceedings in the parish
court of Carroll Parish to destitute him from his said office,
and to procure the appointment of Egelly as administrator of
the succession; that Boyd was not made a party to the proceedings, either personally or by the appointment of a curator
ad hoc to represent him'~, and had no notice of the proceedings,
nor of any subsequent proceedings resulting in the sale of the
Raleigh plantation to Wyly until after the same had been consummated; that on the same day on which said proceedings
to destitute Boyd of the executorship were instituted (merely
upon the ex parte affidavit of Montgomery, one of the lawyers
who had instituted the-proceedings) judgment was rendered,
removing the executor from his office, and thereafter, on September 16, 1868, the defendant Egelly was appointed administrator of the succession, and gave bond as such, with his
attorney, Montgomery, as surety.
The bill further alleged that on the same day the proceed.ings for the destitution of the executor were instituted and
ended, July 16, 1868, an order was obtained for a new inventory and appraisement of the property of the succession, and
that the defendants, Wyly and Egelly, in combination with
Montgomery, caused such an inventory and appraisement to
be made on September 4, 1868, by ignorant and incompetent
appraisers, who corruptly and fraudulently appraised the value

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.,

of the lands of the Raleigh plantation at the insignificant sum
of $2533.05. The bill further alleged that., under the pretext
that it was necessary to sell the said plantation in order to pay
debts of said succession to the amount of $46,000, of which
$6000 were alleged to be due to Sparrow & Montgomery, as
attorneys of the estate, an order was obtained from the parish
court for the sale of the same for cash, and that, after a single
advertisement in an obscure paper, the plantation was, without the knowledge of the complainant, or the said Frederick
W. Boyd, on October 20, 1868, fraudulently adjudicated to
Wyly for the said sum of $2533.05, being at the rate of 1.50
per acre for the said lands. The bill further alleged that the
fraudulent character of the transaction was well known to
Wyly, who participated therein, and who thereby became a
purchaser of the said plantation in bad faith, and should be
held in equity to have acquired the legal title to the said
Raleigh plantation in trust for the complainant, responsible to
her from the date of his purchase for the rents and revenues
thereof. The bill further alleged that shortly after the adjudication of the plantation to Wyly he sued out in the proper
court a process known to the law of Loisiana as a monition,
alleging that he was an innocent third party, who had purchased the plantation in good faith, and praying for an adjudication of homologation of title, which was accordingly entered.
The bill charged that under the laws of Louisiana said
judgment of homologation of title extended only to the cure
of defects of form, and not to the validation and ratification
of acts of fraud and spoliation, such as are alleged to have
infected the pretended purciase of said property by Wyly.
The bill called for answers, but not under oath, and prayed
fqr a decree declaring the pretended sale of the Raleigh' plantation by the said Egelly to Wyly on October 20, 1868, to be
collusive, fraudulent, null and void, and that .Wyly was a
purchaser thereof in bad faith, and that he be required to
deliver possession thereof to the complainant, to account to
her for the fruits and revenues thereof, and for general relief.
The defendants, Wyly and Egelly, answered the bill, setting
up various'technical objections to its frame in bar of the relief

BOYD v. WYLY.
Citations for Appellant.

prayed, and also denying positively and circumstantially all
allegations therein imputing or charging fraud in the sale and
purchase of the said plantation.
The cause was, heard upon the pleadings and full proofs,
when the court found that Wyly had acquired by the proceedings referred to a valid title to the property without fraud in
fact or in law on his part, and was entitled as a purchaser in
good faith to the protection of the defenc6 based upon the
statutory prescription of ten years. The bill was accordingly.
dismissed, from which decree this appeal was prosecuted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General .Maury (Mr. Robert .ott
was with him on the brief), for appellant, cited: 3cLeod v.
Drunwmm6nd, 14 Ves. 353; Ie Ceme v. dottin, 2 Martin (N. S.)
475; .Ie Page v. Nfew Orleans Gas Co., 7 Rob. La. 183;
.Dufour v. Camfranc, 11 Martin, 675; S. C. 13 Am. Dec.
360; Pearson v. Grice, 6 La. Ann. 232; Compton, v. Matthews, 3 La. 141; S. C. 22 Am. Dec. 167; Succession of
Fi4, 3 La. Ann. 705 ;"Succession of Bo utte, 30 La. Ann. 128;
O'Donagan v. Jnox, 11 La. Ann. 388; Donaldson,v. Dorsey,
4 Martin (N'. S.) 509; Casanova v. Acosta, 1 La. 187; Iesassier
v. Lesassier, 15 La. 55; Triehel v. Bordelon, 9 Rob. La. 191;
Choppins v. Forstall,28 La. Ann. 303; Pratt v. ffortram, 5
Mason, 95; .3fichoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503; Gaines v. H~ennen, 24 How. 553; Payne v. Book, 7 Wall. 425; Dupuy v.
Bemis, 2 La. Ann. 509; Shelton v.. Tiffln, 6 How. 163, 185;
Gillespie v. Twitchell,. 34 La. Ann. 288, 299; forton v. leynolds, 4 Rob. La. 26; .,cCluskey v. TVebb, 4 Rob. La. 201;
Gaines v. Do la Croix, 6 Wall. 719; Succession of W7ite, 9
Rob. La. 353; Succession of Guilbeau,25 La. Ann. 474; Quine
v. Ifayes, 2 Rob. La. 510; Conery v. Rotchford, 30 La. Ann.
692; Brswell v. Otis, 9 How. 336, 350; W'alden v. Craig, 14
1Pet. 147, 154; Doriocourtv. Jacobs, 1 La. Ann. 214; Baldwin
v. Htale, 1 Wall. 223; Gaines v. 2vew Orleans, 6 Wall. 642,
713; Sands v. Codwise, 4 Johns. 536; . C. 4 Am. Dec. 305;
Iluse v. Yarborough, h1 La. 531; Martin v. Smith, 1 Dillon,
85; Coles v. Tecothicek, 9 Ves. 234; Underhill v. Earwood,
10 Yes. 209; Copis v. Mfiddleton, 2 Madd. 410; Stiliwell v.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Wilkins, Jacob, 280; Peacock-v. Ebanw, 16 Yes. 512; Gwynne
v. ifeaton, 1 :Bro. Oh. 1; Osgood v. Franin,2 Johns. Oh. 1;

S. C. 7 Am. Dec. 513; Scott v. Tyler, 2 Dickens, 712.
-.M. j B. Beckwith and -'. John IT. Ludeling, for appellees, cited: Succession of Hebrard,18 La. Ann. 485; Succession of Ogden, 10 Rob. La. 457; Brown v. Jacobs, 24 La.
Ann. 531; P elan v. Ax, 25 La. Ann. 379; Barelli v. Gauche,
24 La. Ann. 324; 'Jani v. Franklin, 4 La. 198; Barrett
v. Bullard, 19 La. 281 ; Stockton v. Downey, 6 La. Ann. 174;'
ChaAbers v. Wortham, 7 La. Ann. 113; Brown v. Bouny, 30
La. Ann. 174; Davis v. Gaines, 104 U. S. 386, 404; .JfcGoon
v. Scales, 9 Wall. 23, 30; Wells v. Wells, 30 La. Ann. 936;
lelgwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Croxall v. &ererd, 5
Wall. 268, 289; Dickerson v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578; Coddington, v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 409; Lalanne v. Moreau,
13 La. 431; Wood v. Lee, 21 La. Ann. 505; Thompson v.
Tolrie, 2 Pet. 156; Grignon v. Astor, 2 How. 319.
Ia.
JUs E MAITTimWS, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The first point raised in argument on the part of the complainant is as to the validity of the proceeding in the court of
East Carroll parish, by which Frederick W. Boyd, was, in the
language of the Louisiana law, destituted of his office as dative
testamentary executor, and the defendant Egelly substituted
in his place. It is alleged in the bill, and insisted upon in argument, that this proceeding was had without any actual, and
without any legal constructive notice to Boyd, and that it is,
therefore, null and void. It is charged, as a consequence, that
Egelly became, not the rightful executor, but executor de son.
tort, and that of this Wyly had notice imputed to him by lawbecause shown by the record. It is thence argued, as an inference reasonably to be deduced, that the proceeding must have
been in pursuance of the fraud charged in the bill, and, taken
in connection with the subsequent proceedings and their result,
constitutes proof of the fraud charged.
It appears from a transcript of the record of the proceed..

BOYD v. WYLY.
Opinion of the Court.

ings in question, that on July 16, 1868, there was filed in the
office of the parish court for the parish of Carroll, a petition
on behalf of certain creditors of th6 succession of James
Railey, among whom are named Edward Sparrow and J. W.
Montgomery, in which it was alleged that Frederick W. Boyd,
after qualifying as dative testamentary executor in 1866, had
leased out the plantation for one year and cultivated it himself
during the year 1861; that he had never filed any account of
his administration, but had appropriated and used the rents.
and revenues of the estate for his individual benefit, without
paying any of the creditors any portion of their just dues;
that he had abandoned his administration, and had no domicile or residence in the State, and was permanently absent
therefrom; that he had never given any sufficient bond for the
faithfulness of his administration, the sureties thereon being
insolvent, and had no property in the parish, nor in the State,
and that he had left no power of attorney authorizing any,one
to represent him in the management of the estate. The petitioners, therefore, prayed that the office of the said Boyd and
the administration of the estate might be declared to be
vacated and unrepresented; that Boyd be decreed to have
abandoned his trust, and that, in order to protect the interest
of the creditors, an administrator be appointed to finish the
administration of the estate, and that Egelly be appointed
thereto. This petition was signed on behalf of the petitioners
by Sparrow and Montgomery as their attorneys, and was verified by the affidavit of Montgomery.
Among the papers on file in the matter of this proceeding
in the parish court appears one styled "Opposition of F. W.
Boyd," which is as follows:
"To the Hon. Geo. C. Benham, parish judge- in and for the
parish of Carroll, State of Louisiana.
"The petition of Frederick W. Boyd, a resident of the State
of Mississippi, with respect shows that he is the duly appointed
executor of the last will and testament of Jas. Railey, late
resident of your said parish and state; that he has duly administered the property of the succession of the said Railey

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

since his appointment and confirmation as executor under the
will.

I"Petitione further shows that an application has been made
to your honorable courb praying that E. R. Egelly, Esq., be
appointed dative testamentary executor of the said succession
notwithstanding your petitioner is acting as executor of the
same.
"Wherefore your petitioner prays that the said application
be rejected, and that the said applicant pay all costs of this
general relief."
proceeding and for a.11
This is signed by Goodrich, Pilcher, and Montgomery, as
attorneys. There are no official marks upon it showing the
fact or date of its being filed. The testimony of Charles M.
Filcher, one of the firm who signed it, is that the document
was written by him from a memorandum given to him by his
partner, Goodrich, who was the member of the firm who had
charge, during the administration of Boyd, of the business of
the succession of the Railey estate. The witness states that
the paper was prepared and filed, as he believes, on behalf of
Boyd, by virtue of authority of the firm to act for him, and
he states as his belief that when prepared and filed it was
upon a full sheet of paper, upon the back of which the style
of the case was noted, and on which would also be indorsed
the fact and date of its being filed in court, and that the paper
bears evidence of having been since mutilated by this half
sheet being torn off. F. F. Montgomery, the only other surviving member of the firm whose name appears -signed,to the
paper in question, was examined as a witness, and has no.
recollection of the paper nor of the transaction, buttestifies
that the document is in the handwriting of his partner;
Pilcher. Another witness, R. J. London, testified that he was
deputy clerk of the court at the time when these proceedings
took place, and having examined the document, stated that he
believed. it to be the original opposition of Boyd to the appointment of 0. R.Egelly; that his impression is that it was
marked filed, and put among the mortuary papers of the suc
cession of James Railey by himself as deputy clerk, though

BOYD v. WYLY.
Opinion of the Court.

the part of the sheet upon which the title was written and the
filing indorsed thereon seemed to have been torn off. The
handwriting is that of Charles A. Pilcher. He says: "I know
that an opposition was filed, and my impression -is that the
document marked B is the one. The opposition I refer to was
regularly filed and put away among the mortuary papers as
was customary in like cases."
Frederick W. Boyd was not called by the complainant as a
WVitness, though.he was a party defendant in the cause, having
entered his appearance in person, but filed' no answer, permitting a decree to be taken against him by default. If the facts
were as alleged on behalf of the complainant, that this proceeding, by which he was removed from his office, was without
notice to him,,the fact could easily have been established by
his oath. The allegations contained in the petition for his
removal, that he had abandoned his duties and deserted his
trust as dative testamentary executor of the estate of Railey,
and that he had no domicile or place of residence in the
locality or in the State, are not denied by him, nor does he
deny that the firm of Goodrich, Pilcher & Montgomery were
authorized to oppose the application for his removal, and that
they, in fact, appeared for him for that purpose. The condu-.
sion, therefore, cannot be resisted that he was an actual party
to the proceeding which resulted in his removal from his office
as executor, and that the appointment of Egelly in his place.
to continue the unfinished administration of the succession,
was valid.
The next point urged in support of the equity of the bill is
that the sum at which the plantation was valued by the
appraisers and sold to the defendant Wyly is so grossly inadequate, compared with the true value of the property, as to
shock the conscience of the court, and to furnish full proof of
the fraudulent means by which it was effected, and of the
fraudulent motives and intent of the parties in effecting it.
A large mass of testimony in the case bears upon this point.
It is undoubtedly true that, compared with the previous appraisements of the property and with its real value prior to
the breaking out of the civil war in 1861, ,the price at whiqh

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the plantation was sold to Wyly appears grossly oit of proportion, and several witnesses are called, who do testify that
the appraisement was below what it ought to have been when
made in 1868. On cross-examination, however, some of these
very witnesses also show by their testimony that the standard
in their own minds by which they test the fairness of the
-appraisement is their opinion of the intrinsic value of the property to hold and to use in reference to the future, and not the
actual market value of the property at the time to be sold for
.cash.
It also abundantly appears from the evidence in the cause
that immediately at the close of the war in 1865, and during
that year and the following year, 1866, there were a goreat
many speculative enterprises entered into by persons from the
Northern States investing large sums of cash capital in the
cultivation of cotton plantations in the expectation of large
profits. These expectations were not realized; on the contrary, almost universally they resulted in disaster, the pecuniary losses usually absorbing the entire amount invested.
A reaction immediately set in, producing a corresponding
depression in values. There was scarcely any cash capital in
the country for investment. In addition to this, the labor of
the country was' disorganized as a result of the war, and of the
political and social disorders which followed it. According to
the proof in the case, this disorganization seemed so complete
and so hopeless as to paralyze the business and industry of the
community, and to lead quite a number to such a despair of
the situation as to induce them to abandmi: the country in
order to better their fortunes by emigratioh to Mexico and
South America. The result of the testimony on this poinf is
stated very moderately by the District Judge, Boarman, in
his opinion in this case, in the following extract (18 Fed.
Rep. 355):
"In the early years after the war, the testimony in this case
affirms what is historically known to be true, that the section
of the state in Which the Raleigh plantation is situate, was,
by overflows and other physical and moral causes, almost
entirely bereft of its old-time prosperity and value. The plan-

BOYD v. WYLY.
Opinion of the Court.

tation was greatly damaged by previous overflows, and had
but little fencing, and it is shown by defendant Wyly, that he,
shortly after purchasing it, expended $25,000 in improvements.
Defendant has shown, whatever may have been the general
causes that depreciated property- on the Mississippi River in
1868, that many thousand acres of land, as valuable as the
plantation in question, were sold for prices not unlike the
paltry price at which Wyly bought his place. The testimony
as to the scarcity of ready money, as to the price for which
much valuable land sold when disposed of at forced sale, and
as to the political, moral and physical bankruptcy of the
country, leads md to believe that the complainant and the
unpaid creditors of her father's succession were victims to
the indifferent management and neglect of the executor and
to the physical and moral prostration of the country, which
was apparent everywhere in Louisiana in the early years
following the end of the war, rather than to the acts of any
of these several defendants."
The defendant Wyly took a more hopeful view, and, upon
the basis of a well-grounded faith in the futire of his country,
he was willing to invest his money in real estate, abandoned
by its owner, upon valuations made under the authority and
with the sanction of the proper judicial tribunals of the
locality.
We have examined with scrutiny and weighed with care all
the evidence in this cause, and every consideration urged upon
us by the zeal and ability of the counsel for the complainant,
with a view to ascertain and secure to her her just rights.
We are unable to discover any sufficient proof of the particulars of the fraud by which, as she complains, she has been
wronged. The sale to the defendant Wyly, however advantageous it has proved to be to him, in our opinion has not
been impeached.
The decree of the Circuit Court was, therefore, right, and is
hereby
-Alwned.

