•534

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

* TNA LIFE ITSURANUE COMPANY v. MIDDLEPORT.
APPEAL FRO1

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TH9 UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted January 4, 1888. - Decided February 6, 1888.

The town of Middleport having, in pursuance of a statute of Illinois, voted
an appropriation to the Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company, to be raised by a tax on the property of the inhabitants of the
town, issued bonds, payable with interest to bearer, for a sum. large
enough to include interest and the discount for which they could be sold,
and delivered them to the railroad company, and they were accepted by
that company, and sold and delivered to plaintiff. Reld:
(1) That the purchase of these bonds by plaintiffwas no payment of the
appropriation voted by the town to the railroad company.
(2) That, the bonds having been held to be void in a suit between the
plaintiff and the town, this did not operate as a subrogation of the
plaintiff to the right of the company, if any. such existed, to
enforce the collection of the appropriation voted by the town.
(3) .The doctrine of subrogation in equity requires, 1, that the person
seeking its benefit must have paid a debt due to a third party before he can be subsiftuted to that party's rights; and, 2, that in
doing this'he must not act as a mere volunteer, but on compulsion,
to save himself from loss by reason of a superior lien or claim on
the part of the person to whom he pays the debt, as in cases of
sureties, prior mortgagees, etc. The right is never accorded in
equity to one who is a mere volunteer in paying a debt of one person to another.

Turs was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit.Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, dismissing
on demurrer the bill of the .Etna Life Insurance Company, the
present appellant.
The substance of the bill was that the complainant is the
owner of fifteen bonds, of one thousand dollars each, issued by
the township of Middleport, in the State of Illinois, dated February 20, 1871, and delivered to the Chicago, Danville and
Vincennes Railroad Company. These bonds were payable to
bearer, and were bought of the railroad company by the complainant, who paid value for them.

_MTNA LIFE INS. CO. v.

MIDDLEPORT.

Statement of the Case.

The bill recited that this railroad company was incorporated
in 1865 under the laws of the State of illinoi$, with power'to
construct a railroad from a point in Lawrence Couty, by way
of Danville, to the city of Chicago; that an act of the legislature of that Stat6, passed Mvtarch 7, 1867, authlbrized cities,
towns, or townships, lying within certain limits, to appropriate
moneys and levy a tax to aid the construction of said road*
and "that said act authorized all incorporated towns and cities
and towns acting undor township organization, lying wholly or
in part within twenty miles of the east line of ,the State of
Illinois, and also between the city of Chicago and the southern
boundary of Lawrence County, in said State, to appropriate
suuh sums of money as they should deem proper to the said
Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company, to aid it
in the construction of its road,'to be paid as soon as the track
of said road should be laid and constructed through such cities, towns, or townships: Provided, however, that a proposition to make such appropriation should first be submitted to a
vote of the legal voters of such cities, towns, or townships at a
regular, annual, or special meeting, of which at least ten days'
previous notice should be given; and also provided, that a vote.
should be taken on such proposition, by ballot, at the usual
place of election, and that a mjjority of the votes cast should
be in favor of the proposition; and your orator further avers
that said act authorized and required the authorities of such
cities, towns, and townships to levy and collect such taxes
and to make such other provisions as might be necessary
and proper for the prompt payment of such appropriations so
made."
It was then alleged, that, on the .8th day of June, 1867,
after due publication of notice according to law, a meeting of
the legal voters of said town of Middleport was held, at which
they cast their votes by ballot upon the proposition to levy
and collect a tax of $15,00O upon the taxable property of the
inhabitants of the town to aid in the construction of said railroad, provided Watseka, a city in the county of Iroquois, situated in or near the soutlh line of said town, should be made a
point in said road; that it appeared, on counting the votes,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

that 323 were in,
favor of and 68 were against such tax, and
that thereupon the proposition was duly declared carried, the
proceedings 'relating to the meeting and vote duly.attested
by the town clerk and the moderator of the meeting, and by
said clerk duly recorded in the town records.
I The bill further averred that the railroad company accepted
this vote and appropriation of the township, and, relying, upon
such vote and the good faith of said town, accepted the condition of the appropriation, and constructed and completed its
track through said town; that on the 10th day of February,
1871, the board of town aucf'tors adopted a resolution, of
which the following is a copy:
"Whtreas the township of Middleport did, on the 8th day
of 'June, 186-7, vote aid to the Chicago, Danville & Vincennes
Railroad Company to the amount of fifteen thousand dollars,
and it appearing that said townshi is unable to pay such
amount in money:
"Therefore resolved by the board of auditors of said township that bonds issue to said Chicago, Danville &IVincennes
Railroad Company to the amount of fifteen thousand dollars,
together with a sufficient amount to coverthe discount necessary on said bonds in negotiating the same, to wit, one thousand five hundred dollars, said bonds to be dated February
20th, A.D. 1871, and to bear interest at the rate of ten per
cent from date per annum."
In pursuance of this resolution it was alleged, that, on the
24th day of March, 1871, the supervisor and town clerk of
-Middleport executed the fifteen bonds which are the subject
of this suit; that "the said bonds were numbered one to fifteen, inclusive, and were delivered to the said railroad coinpany, upon the fulfilment of the conditions of said vote, in
payment of ninety cents on the dollar of the appropriation
made to said company by said vote, both parties believing
that said bonds were fully authorized by law and were legal,
valid, and binding on said town, and also believing them to be
legal evidences of the debt in favor of said company incurred
'by said town in voting -aid appropriation."
-Itwas then alleged, that, on or about the 26th day of June,

= TNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MIDDLEPORT.
Statement of the Case.

1876, the town of Middleport, which up to that time had paid
the interest upon the bonds, filed a bill in equity in the Circuit
Court for the county of Iroquois against the complainant corporation as the holder of said bonds, and certain other persons, "alleging, in substance, the making and issuing of said
bonds, as herein stated, that the same were delivered to your
orator, and that your orator was the holder thereof, and that
the same were made and issued without authority of law and.
were invalid, and praying the court so to decree and to enjoin
your orator from collecting the same and for other relief, as
by the record in the cause, upon reference thereto, will fully
appear.))
It was averred that the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, l5ut
that upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Illinois the decree
dismissing it was reversed, that court holding that these bonds
were void as issued without -authority of law; and the case
was remanded to said Circuit Court for further proceedings';
whereupon it passed a decree in conformity with the opinion
of said Supreme Court, adjudging the bonds void, and enjoined
their collection.
The bill then charged that said Supreme Court, while holding the bonds to be void, did not deny, but impliedly admitted,
the validity of the appropriation by the town, and insisted that,
by the issue and delivery of said bonds to the railroad company, and their sale by that company to the present complainant, it was thereby subrogated to the rights of action which
that company would have on the contract evidenced by the
vote of the town, and the acceptance and fulfilment of the
contract by the railroad company. It was also alleged that
no part of the principal sum named in the bonds, or any part
of said appropriation, had ever been paid, but that. on the
contrary, the town. of Middleport denied all liability therefor;
that ever since the purchase of said bondsfthe complainant had
continued to hold, and then held, the same, and had been and
then was the holder of all rights which the railroad company
or its assigns had against said town by reason of the premises.
A decree was then prayed for that the town of Middleport
should pay to complainant the amount found due, and should

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

without delay levy and collect all taxes necessary for such pay-.
ment; also, that the court would enforce the rights of complainant by writs of mandamus, and such other and further
orders and decrees according to the course of equity as should
be necessary and proper; and also prayed that W. H. Leyford,
in whose hands as receiver the Chicago, Danville & Vincennes
Railroad Company had been placed by the court, it being insolvent, might be made a party defendant thereto.
To this bill the defendant demurred, and assigned the following as causes for demurrer:
First. That said bill does not contain any matter of equity
whereon this court can ground any decree or give complainant
any relief as against this respondent.
Second. Bill shows it is exhibited against respondent andthe Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company and
William Leyford, its receiver,. as respondents thereto, and the
facts set forth therein show the same relief cannot be granted
against all of said respondents; and fails to state facts showing
respondents jointly liable, but stated facts which show this
respondent, if liable at all, is not jointly liable or in any
manner connected with the others, and the bill is multifarious.
Third. Fails to show any written agreement on which suit
is brought that would bind respondent, and fails to state facts
showing a cause of action exists against respondent that arose
within five years last past before bringing of suit.
Fourth. Fails to show any written agreement on which
suit is brought binding on respondent on which has arisen a
cause of action within the last ten years prior to bringing this
suit.,
Fifth. Fails to set forth facts showing an excuse, for the
great delay in bringing suit which is shown on face of bill, and
equity will not relieve against laches,
Sixth. Bill contains many blanks of dates and names and
nothing on face of bill from which facts can be obtained to fill
Sal~ne.

The court below sustained the demurrer, and d.smissed the
bill, from which judgmnent complainant appealed.,

_ALTNA LIFE INS. CO. v. AIIDDLEPORT
Argument for Appellant.

.Abr. J. H. Sedgwicke and -Mr. 0. J. Bailey for appellant.
I. The contracts granting aid were completed, as binding
obligations on the towns in favor of the railroad company, at
the polls. Chinquy v. People, 78 Illinois, 570, 576; Chicago &
Iowa Railroad Co. v. Pinkney, 74 Illinois, 27; Fair2fteld v.
Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47 ; overruling Concord v. Savings
Bank, 92 U. S. 625. The fact that there were conditions in
the contract, as that the railroad should be built, &c., made it
no less binding. The railroad company performed the conditions about July, 1871. This mad6 the contracts absolute on
the part of the town to levy, collect and pay over to the railroad company the taxes voted. These contracts have never
been changed.
"The constitution (of Illinois, 1870) saved
whatever rights were acquired by the company under that
vote; for it left untouched the authority of the township to
complete the donation to the company according to the terms
upon which it was voted." Concord v. Robinson, 121 . 1.
165, 171.
The issuing of void bonds by the officers of the town to
represent or fund these contracts, and the acceptance of such
bonds by the railroad company, and its negotiation of them to
holders for v-luc, did not extinguish these valid obligations of
the towns. Alarsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676 ; Louisiana
v. Mood,*102 IT. S. 294; Paul v. .enosha, 22 Wisconsin, 256;
S. 0. 94 Am. Dec. 598; Curtis v. Ieavitt, 15 N. Y. 9; AVelson
v. 2 aybr, 63 N. Y. 535, 544; Anthony v. Jasper Co., 101 U. S.
693. But having sold the bonds and received the money on
them it would be inequitable for the railroad company to still
enforce the contracts for its own benefit. It therefore holds
them as trustee for our benefit. By buying the bonds suppbsed
to represent them we became in equity entitled to the benefit
of them. -Louisianav. Wfood, 102 U. S. 294, 298.
A purchaser will ordinarily be subrogited to all the rights
of his vendor in the property, even though they are not expressly conveyed to him. Sheldon on Subrogation, § 34.
II. The equitable assignee of a chos.- in action has the right
to go into a court of equity to have his interest therein estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellant.

lished; and when so' bstablished he will have the right to complete relief in the same action by decree of specific performance of the contract. .fechanics Bank of Alexandria v.
Seton, 1 Pet. 299; Fortiscue v. Ba-lnett, 3 Myl. & K. 36; Ear
parte Pye, :18 Yes. 140. In enforcing specific performance the
Supreme Court of the United States regards the technical distinction, as to whether the contract relates to realty or personalty, much less than it does the" other question; whether
the plaintiff is entitled to other or better relief than the law
can give him. fechanis Bank of Alexandria v. Seton, 6upra.
Our remedy at law to be subrogated to the rights of the
railroad company on these contracts with the towns, is very
far from being clear and perfect. The practice in Illinois,
which in this .case, being the ancient practice, is authority for
our procedure, requires us to go into equity for subrogation.
Courts of law there know nothing of this relief and cannot
administer it. XAteyer v. ]intonye, 106 Ill. 414. This is the
general rule wherever the jurisdictions are separate. Springer's
Admr. v. &7ringer, 43-Penn..St. 518; ilosier's AppeaZ, 56
Penn. St. 6; Eaton v. Ilasty, 6 Nebraska, 419.
Even in those States where the law, following equity, has
come to adn'iinister this relief more or less completely it
appears that equity still retains its jurisdiction. Sheldon on
Subrogation, ch. 1, §§ 1, 4. Indeed it is the rule that a United
States court of equity will not be ousted of its ancient jurisdiction because the state courts of law come to apply equity
principles more or less thoroughly. Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall.
425; Borer v. Chapman, 119 U. S. 587.
The cases at bar then belong to that class where the plaintiff
has an independent equity, the right to subrogation. If the
acti6n had been by the railroad company against the towns on
their contracts, it must have been at law, of course. Bat we
have no legal title to those contracts. They never have been
assigned to us. Had they been perhaps we might have brought
an action at law on them against the towns in the name of the
railroad company, or its receiver; though this is doubtful.
But clearly now our remedy to get the benefit of those contracts is wholly and purely equitable.

TNA -LIFE INS. CO. v. MIDDLEPORT.
Argument for Appellant.

Had these choses in action been actually assigned to us by
the railroad company, our right to them would have rested in
such contract of assignment. Now it rests on the fact that
we bought certain bonds, supposed at the time to represent
these contracts, but which afterwards turned out void. The
equity of subrogation arises where plaintiff's right rests not
upon contract, but upon a state of facts which give it. In
such cases the proper remedy is not at law but in equity.
MAosier's Appeal, 56 Penn. St. 76; Eaton v. Hasty, 6 Nebraska,
419.
We stand like a purchaser of land at execution sale which
has turned out invalid. Such facts subrogate the purchase to
the lien of the original judgment. ,MoHany v. Schenhe, 88
Illinois, 357.
III. But we are told that we have no right to this subrogation because in buying the bonds we made a mistake not of
fact but of law, and are therefore chargeable with notice of
the invalidity of the bonds. But how does this affect our
right to subrogation? "Circumstances may exist which will
give the holder of bonds an equitable right to recover from the
municipality the money which they represent, though he cannot enforce their payment or put them on the market as commercial paper." Anthony v. County qf Jojer,101 U. S. 693,
697.
This was said in a case where the bonds were held void
because issued by a fraud which amounted to forgery, and the
purchaser was held chargeable with notice of the fraud. If
we were suing the railroad company on an implied warranty
of the validity of the bonds, this question of implied notice of
their invalidity might cut some figure. But in equity, notwithstanding the notice of caveat eptor under which he purchased, a purchaser is subrogated to the lien of the original
judgment. So implied notice of defects in the thing purchased
has nothing to do with the purchaser's right to be subrogated
to all that fairly and equitably should go with his purchase to
recompense him, if it turns out a nullity. And whether the
mistake of the purchaser is one of law or fact, he has the right
to be subrogated to everything that equitably belongs with

OCTOBER TERM, 1887. Argument for Appellant.

his purchase.

Gause v. Clarksvillo, 5 Dillon, 165, 180 - Wood

V. Zouisiana,5 Dillon, 122, 124; Shirk v. Pulaski County, 4
Dillon, 209, 214; School -Districtv. Lombard, 2 Dillon, 493.
In- ouisianav. Wood, supra,it is settled that the purchaser of
void bonds, though chargeable with notice of their invalidity,
is subrogated to the seller's rights on the consideration for
which they were issued against the municipality issuing them.
But further: Whether the bonds were valid or not was, at
the time of the purchase, a mixed question of law and fact.,
The question as to whether these officers had in fact, if necessary under the law, been expressly authorized by the voters to
issue the bonds, was a question of fact. The people having
voted the aid, the supervisors being the proper officers to
decide, whether the requirements authorizing the issue of
bonds had been complied with (see People v. Cline, 63 Illinois, 394), and they issuing bonds reciting as these do that
they were issued in accordance with the acts of the legislature and the vote of the electors of the towns, we had the
right to assume that all facts-necessary to give the supervisors
authority to issue the bonds had been complied with. Pompton v. Cooper Union, 101 U. S. 196.
The towns cannot complain that we are subrogated to the
rights of the railroad company under these contracts ; for we
must bear in mind that ipithis case the liability of the town
was fiwed by the election, as held in Vhinguy v. People, and
.Fairteldv. Gallatin Co., supra. It is liable to somebody,
either the railroad company or to us as the equitable assignee
or successor of that company. It makes no difference to the
town to which it is liable. We bring it and the company into
a court of equity asking to have the liability declared and established in us by subrogation. If the railroad company makes
no objection to this, certainly the town cannot demur.
IV. There is no multifariousness in the relief asked. *It can.
all be granted in one decree. A decree subrogating us to the
railroad company's rights under its contracts -with the towns
and ordering the towns to perform that contract for our benefit, is certainly a very simple matter
V. But defendant's counsel tell us.that we are now. barred'

ITNA -LIFE INS. CO. v. MIDDLEPORT.
Argument for Appellant.

from our equity because we did not set it up in the former
case, the one finally disposed of by the'decision of the Illinois
Co., 82 IlliSupreme Court in ]Pidileport v. .Etna Life I.
nois, 562. In answer to this it is sufficient to say: 1st: We
did not know at that time that we had any such equity; we
could not know about that until the final decision of that case,'
supposing as we did all through the base that the bonds were
valid. 2d. We could not have set up this equity in that suit
even had we mistrusted that we possessed it, for that was a
bill by the town to invalidate the bonds- because irregularly
issued.
VI. But defendant's counsel tell us that though our equity
were valid and not barred by failure to set it up in the former
case, 3fiddleport v. BEtna As. Co., yet it is now stale and barred
by the statute of limitations. It is not stale unless it is barred
by the statute. Mere delay alone short of the period flxed as a
bar by the statute of limitations will not preclude the assertion
of an equitable right. It is only wheAt by delay and neglect
to assert a right that the adverse party is lulled into doing
that which he would not have done, or into omitting to do
that which he would have done in reference to the matter, had
the right been promptly asserted, that the defence of laches
can be considered. Gibons v. Hoag, 95 Illinbis, 45, 69;
Thmpson v. Scott, 1 Bradwell, App..111. 641; _ffz'lard v.
United States A ortgage Co., 14 Bradwell, App. Ill. 40; United
Statos v. Alexandria, 19 Fed. Rep. 609; . C. 4-Hughes, 545.
Here thbre can be no pretence that our delay to sue has
wrought an injury to defendants.
As to the question of limitation raised, it must be decided
upon the law in force at the time wAen the contract was made;
even though a new limitation law were enacted before suit
could be brought. Afeans v. Harrison,114 Illinois, 248; 21c.Mil an v. Ae Cormick, 117 Illinois, 79.
[Counsel then examined the statutes at length, contending
that-they did not bar the action, and that there had been no
laches.]
3&. FrancisFelowes also filed an argument for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

1b. Robert -Doyle for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, after stating

the case as above reported,

dplivered the opinion of the court.
In the argument of the demurrer before the Circuit Court
several objections to the bill were taken. The defendant in
error,' however, relies here upon three principal grounds of defence: -First,it denie-, the right of subrogation, upon which
rests the whole case of the complainant; secohd, it relies upon
the statute of limitations of five years; and third,it asserts
that the former decree in the state court is a bar to the action
here.
The Circuit Court held that the statute of limitations was a
bar to the present suit, and dismissed the bill on that ground.
But we regard the primary question, whether the complainant is entitled to be substituted to the rights of the railroad
company after buying the bonds of the township, a much more
important question, and are unanimously of opinion that the
transaction does not authorize such subrogation.
The bonds in question in this suit were delivered by the
agents of the town of Middleport to the railroad company,
and by that company sold in openi market as negotiable instruments to the complainant in this action. There was no indorsement, nor is there any allegation in the bill that there
was any express agreement that the sale of these bonds carried
with them any obligation which the cbmpany might have had
to enforce the appropriation voted by the town. Notwithstanding the averment in the bill that the intent of complainant in purchasing said bonds, and paying iti money therefor,
was to acquire such rights of subrogation, it cannot be received
as any sufficient allegation that there was a valid contract to
that effect. On the contrary, the bill fairly presents the idea
thdt by reason of the facts of the sale the complainant .was in
equity subrogated to said rights, and entitled to enforae the
same against the town of Middleport.
The argument of the learned counsel in the case is based
entirely upon the right of the complainant to be subrogated

MTNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MIDDLEPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

to the rights of the railroad company by virtue of the principles of equity and justice. He does not set up any claim of
aik express contract for such subrogation. He says:
"The equity alleged in the plaintiff's bill is, as I have said,
the equity of subrogation. Before proceeding to call the
attention of the court to the facts from which this equity
arises, it may be useful to advert to the instances in which the
right of subrogation exists, and to the principles on which it
rests."
He founds his argument entirely upon the proposition, that
whenthe complainant purchased these bonds he thereby paid
the debt of the town of iiddleport to the railroad company,
as voted by it, and that because it paid this money to that
company on bonds which are void, it should be subrogated to.
the right of the company against the town.
The authorities on which he relies are all cases in which the
party subrogated has actually paid a debt of one party due to
another, and claims the right to any security which the payee
in that transaction had against the original debtor. But there
is no payment in the case before us of any debt of the town.
The purpose of the purchase, as well as the sale of these bonds,
and what the parties supposed they had effected by it, was not
the payment of that debt, but the sale and transfer of a debt
of the town from one party to another, whiobh debt was evidenced by the bonds that were thus transferred. Neither
party had any idea of extinguishing by this transaction the
debt of the town. It was very clear that it was a debt yet to
be paid, and the discount and interest on the bonds was the
consideration which induced the complainant to buy them.
The language of this court in Otis et al. v. Cullum, Ree6ver,
92 U. S. 447, is very apt, and expresses precisely what was
done in this case. In that case Otis & Company were the purchasers of bonds of the city of Topeka from the First National
Bank of that place. These bonds were afterwards held by
this court to be void for want of authority, just as in the case
before us. A suit was brought against the bank, which had
failed and was in the hands of a receiver, to recover back the
money paid to it for the bonds. After referring to the decisVOL. CXXV-3-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ion of Lambert v. .Beath,15 Jlleeson & iWelsby, 486, this court

... . .
said: '
"Here, also, the plaintiffs in 'error got exactly what they
intended to buy, and did buy. They took nd guaranty. They
'are seeking to recover, as-it were, upon one; while none exists.
They are not clothed with the rights which such a stipulation
would have given them. N'ot having taken it, they cannot
have the benefit of it. The bank cannot be charged with a
liability which it did not assume. Such securities throng the
channels of commerce, which they are made to seek, and
Where they find their market. They pass from hand to hand
like bank notes. The seller is liable ea delioto for bad faith;
and ex contradtu there is an implied *arranty on his part that
they belong to him, and that they are not forgeries. Where
there is no express stipulation, there is no- liability beyond this.
If the buyer desires special protection, he must take a guaranty. He can dictate its terms, and refuse to buy unless it be
given. - If not taken, he cannot occupy the vantage ground
upon which it would have placed him." p. 449.
Nor can this case be sustained upon the principle laid down
in this court in Louisiana v. TWood, 102 U. S. 294. That was
a case in which the city of Louisiaha, having a right by its
charter to borrow money, had issued bonds and placed them
on the market for that purpose. These bonds were negotiated
by the-agents of the city, and the money received for their sale
went directly into its treasury. It was afterwards held that
they were invalid for want of being, registered. Afterwards
the parties who had bought these bonds brought suit against
the city for the sum they had paid, on the ground that the
city had receiired their money without any consideration, and
was bound ex 65luo et bona to pay it back. The court said:
-"The only contract actually entered into is the one the law
implies from what was -done, to wit, that the city would, on
demand, return the money paid to it by mistake, and, as the
money was got under a form of obligation which was apparently good, that interest should be-paid at the legal rate from
the time the obligation was denied."
In the present- case* there was :no borrowing of. money.

IETNA LIFE INS. CO. v.. MIDDLEPORr.
Opinion of the Court.

There was nothing which pretended to take that form. No
money of the complainants ever went into the treasury of the
town of Middieport; that municipality never received any
money in that transaction. It did not sell the bonds, either
to complainant or anybody else. It simply delivered bonds,
which it had no authority to issue, to the railroad company,
and that corporation accepte&them in satisfaction of the donation by way of taxation which had been voted in aid of the
construction of its road.
The whole transaction of the execution and delivery of
these bonds was utterly void, because there was no authority
in the town to borrow money or to execute bonds for the payment of the sum voted to the railroad company. They conferred no right upon anybody, and of -course the transaction
by which they were passed by that company to complainant
could create no obligation, legal or implied, on the part of the
t5Wvn to pay that sum to any holder of these bonds.
-Litch~feldv. Ballou, 114 U. S. 190, sustains this view of the
subject. That town hhd issued bonds for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a system of water-works. In that
case, as in Lo'isianav. Wood, the bonds were so far in excess
of the authority of the town to create a debt that they were
held by this court to be void in the case of Buchanan v. lit hfield, 102 U. S. 278. After this decision, Ballou, -another holder
of the bonds, brought a suit in equity upon the ground that,
though the bonds were void, the town was liable to him for
the money which he had paid in their purchase. This cpurt
held that there was no equity in the bill on the ground that, if
the plaintiff had any right of action against the city for money
had and received, it was an action at law, and equity had no
jurisdiction. It was also attempted in that case to establish
the proposition, that, the money of the plaintiffs having been
used in the construction of the water-works, there was an equitable lien in favor of the plaintiffs on those works for the sum
advanced. This was also denied by the court.
One of the principles lying at the foundation of subrogation
in equity, in addition to the one already stated, that the person
seeking this subrogation must have paid the debt, is that he

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

must have done this under some necessity, to save himself from
loss which might arise or accrue to him by the enforcement of
the debt in the hands of the original creditor; that, being
forced under such circurtistances to pay off the debt of a creditor who had some superior lien or right to his own, he could,
for that reason, be subrogated to such rights as the creditor,
whose debt he had paid, had against the original debtor. As
we have already said, the plaintiff in this case paid no debt.
It bought certain bonds of the railroad company at such discount as was agreed upon between the parties, and took them
for the money agreed to be paid therefor.
But even if the case here could be supposed to come within
the rule which requires theayment of a debt in order that a
party may be subrogated to the rights of the person to whom
the debt was paid, the payment in this case was a voluntary
interference of the fftna Company in the transaction. It had
no claim against the town of Middleport. It had no interest
at haiard which required it to pay this debt. If it had stood
off and let the railroad company and the town work out their
own relations to each other it could have suffered no harm and
ho loss. There was no obligation on account of which, or reason why, the complainant should have connected itself in any
way with this transaction, or have paid this money, except the
ordinary desire to make a profit in the purchase of bonds. The
fact that the bonds were void, whatever right it may have given
against the railroad company, gave it no right to proceed upon
another contract and another obligation of the town to the
railroad company.
These propositions are very clearly stated in a useful monograph on the Law of Subrogation, by Henry N. Sheldon, and
are well established by the authorities which he cites. -The
doctrine of subrogation is derived from the civil law, and "it
is said to be a legal fiction, by force of which an obligation
extinguished by a payment made, by a third person is treated
as still subsisting for the benefit'of this third person, so. that
by means of. it one creditor is substituted to the rights, remedies, and securities of another.

.

.

.

It takes place for

the benefit of a person who, being himself a creditor, pays

=iTNA LIFE INS. CO. v. AIDDLEPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

another creditor whose debt is preferred to his by reason of
privileges or mortgages, being obliged to make the payment,
either as standing in the situation of a surety, or that he may
remove a prior incumbrance from the property on which he
relies to secure his payment. Subrogation, as a matter of
right, independently of agreement, takes place only for the
benefit of insurers; or of one who, being himself a creditor,
has satisfied the lien of a prior creditor; or for the benefit of
a purchaser who has extinguished an incumbrance upon the
estate which he has purchased; or of a cobbligor or surety
who has paid the debt which ought, in whole or in part, to
have been met by another." Sheldon on Subrogation, § 2, 3.
In § 240 it is said: "The doctrine of subrogation is not
applied for the mere stranger or volunteer, who has paid the
debt of another, without any assignment or agreement for subrogation, without being under any legal obligation to make
the payment, and without being compelled to do so for the
preservation of any rights or property of his own."
This is sustained bSr a reference to the cases of S7inn v.
Budd, 14 N. J. Eq. (1 McCarter) 231; Sanford v. .3fc.ean.3
Paige, 117; Hoover v. Epl1er, 52 Penn. St. 522.
In Gad-sden. v. Brown, Speer's Eq. (So. Car.) 37, 41, Chancellor Johnson says: "The doctrine of subrogation is a pure
unmixed equity, having its foundation in the principles of natural justice, and from its very nature never could have been
intended for the relief of those who were in any condition/in
which they were at liberty to elect whether they would or
would not be bound; and, as far as I have been able to learn
its history, it never has been so applied. If one with the perfect knowledge of the facts will part with his money, or bind
himself by his contract in a sufficient consideration, any rule
of law which would restore him his money or absolve him
from his contract would subvert the rules of social order. It
has been directed in its application exclusively to the relief of
those that were already bound who could not but choose to
abide the penalty."
This is perhaps as clear a statement of the doctrine on this
subject as is to be found anywhere.

OCTOBER OTERMH, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Chancellor Walworth, in the case of Sanford v. .ticLean, 3
Paige, 122, said: "It is only in cases where the person
advancing money to pay the debt of a third party stands
in the situation of a surety, or is compelled to pay it to protect his own rights, that a court of equity substitutes him
in the place of the creditor, as a matter of course, without any
agreement to that effect. In other cases the demand of a
creditor, which is paid with the money of a third person, and
without any agreement that the security shall be assigned or
kept on foot for the benefit of such third person, is-.-bsolutely
extinguished."
In 3femphls & Little Book Railroad v. -Dow, 120 U. S.
287, this court said: "The right of subrogation is not founded
on contract. It is a creation of equity;. is enforced solely for
the purpose of accompjishing the ends of substantial-justice,
and is independent of any contractual relations between the
parties."
In the case of Shinn v. Budd, 14 .N. J. Eq. (1 McCarter)
234, the New Jersey Chancellor said (pp. 236-237):
"Subrogation as a matter of right, as it exists in the civil
law, from which the term has been borrowed and adopted in
our own, is never applied in aid of a mere volunteer. Legal
substitution into the rights of a creditor, for the benefit of a
third person, takes place only for his benefit who, being himself a creditor, satisfies the lien of a prior creditor, or for
the benefit of a purchaser who extinguishes the encumbrances
upon his estate, or of a cobbligor or surety who discharges
the debt, or of an heir who pays the debts of the succession.
Code Napoleon, book 3, tit. 3, art. 1251; Civil Code of Louisiana, art. 2157; 1 Pothier on Oblig., part 3, 'c. 1, art. 65 § 2.
'We are ignor'ant, say the Supreme Court of Louisiana, 'of
any law which gives to the party who furnishes money for the
payment of a debt the rights of the creditor who is thus paid.
The legal claim alone belongs not to all who pay a debt, but
only to him who, :being bound for it, discharges it.' ]'olte &
Co. v. Their Creditors, 9 Martin, 602; Curtis v. Zitchen, 8
Martin, 706; Coov. Baldwin, 1 Miller's Louis. R. 147. The
principle of legal substitution, as adopted and applied in our

IETNA LIFE INS. CO. 'v. MIDDLEPORT.
Opinion of the Court.

system of equity, has, it is believed, been rigidly restrained
within these limits."
The cases here referred to as having been decided in the
Supreme Court of Louisiana are especially applicable, as the
code of that State is ii the main founded on the civil law from
which this right of subrogation has been adopted by the chancery courts of this country. The latest case upon this subject
is one from the appellate court of the State of Illinois - $uppiger v. Garrels, 20 Bradwell App. Tll. 625 -the
substance
of which is thus stated in the syllabus:
"Subrogation in"
equity is confined to the relation of principal and surety and guarantors, to cases where a person to protect his own junior lien is compelled to remove one which is
superior, and to cases of insurance.

.

.

.

Any one who is

under no legal obligation or liability to pay the debt is a stranger, and, if he pays the debt, a mere volunteer."
No case to the contrary has been shown by the researches of
plaintiff in error, nor have we been able to find anything contravening these principles in our investigation of the subject.
They are conclusive against the claim of the complainant here,
who in this instance is a mere volunteer, who paid nobody's
debt, who bought negotiable bonds in open market without
anybody's indorsement, and as a matter of business. The complainant company has, therefore, no right to the siibrogation
which it sets up in the present action.
Without considering the other questions, which is unnecessary, the decree of the Circuit Court is
Afined.

These prificiples require also the affirmance of the decrees in the
cases of .zEtna Life Insurance Co. v. Belmont, No. 1136, and Etna
.,ife Insurance Go. v. Milford, No. 1136.
It is so ordered.

