OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Parker, and not in the bankrupts. Therefore nothing passed
to the assignees, and there was nothing for them to submit.
The judgment is aflrmed.

DOW v. MEMPHIS AND LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM1 THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued January 9, 18S.-Decided February 20, 1888.

dalveston Railroadv. 6Jowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, affirmed to the point that when
a railroad mortgage covers income, the mortgagor is not bound to account to the mortgagee for earnings while the property is in his possession until a demand is made therefor, or for a surrender of possession
under tile mortgage:
But the commencement of a suit in equity to enforce a surrender of possession to the trustees under the mortgage in accordance with its terms
is a demand for possession, and if the trustees are then entitled to possession the company must account from that time.

THE facts on which this case rested were these:
Robert K. Dow, Watson Matthews, and Charles Moran are
the trustees in two mortgages executed by the Memphis and
Little Rock Railroad Company as reorganized, one on the first
and the other on the second of May, 18'', to secure two sepaIrate issues of bonds. Each of the mortgages covered, among
other things, "all the incomes, rents, issues, tolls, profits, receipts, rights, benefits and advantages had, received or derived
by the party of -the first part from any of the herbby conveyed premises," which included the railroad of the company;
but it was provided that until default in the payment of interest or principal the company should "retain the possession of
all the property hereby conveyed, and receive and enjoy the
income thereof." In case of default for sixty days in the payment of interest the trustees were authorized to enter upon
and take possession of "all and singular the charter, franchises

DOW v. MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

and property

.

.

.

conveyed,?'" and take and receive the

income and profits thereof."
The company failed to pay its interest falling due July 1,
1882, and thereafter. For this reason the trustees began this
suit against the company in the Crircuit Court of the United
States on the712th of February, 1884, praying that they might
be put into the possession of the mortgaged property in accordance with the terms of the mortgage of May 2, 1877, and
for the purposes therein expressed, "and that the defendant
may be enjoined from interfering with their possession, or disturbing it in any way." On the 24th of March they applied
for the appointment of a receiver, and the court on 'the 27th
of that month granted the parties until April 7 to file briefs
on the motion, but ordered "that the defendant, until further
Qrder herein, hold the property mentioned in the bill subject
to the order of the court." On the 15th of April a receiver
was appointed, and the company was ordered at once to " surrender possession of its said railroad, rolling stock, and all
other money and property of every character" to him. To
this order exceptions were taken by the company, so far as it
directed the delivery of money to the receiver, on the ground
"that -all the money in its hands or possession was derived by
it from the operation of the railroad and other property mentioned in the bill, and was its income.and the income of said
property, and that it had no money whatever, save such as
was thus derived and received;" and that at no time had the
plaintiff demanded possession of the property. On the 18th
of April this motion was denied, but the receiver was directed
to hold the moneys to be paid him "'subject to the order of
the court, and to be repaid to defendant should the court so
adjudge."
On the 27th of March the company had in its hands
$42,123.68. Between that date and April 15 the company
paid out $46,458.16, and its earnings were such that, when
added to the $42,123.68, there was enough to make- these
payments and leave a balance of $32,216.20, which was paid
over to the receiver.
Certain persons, who were holders of bonds secured by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion" of the Court.

mortgage of M[ay 1, 1877, recovered judgments at law against
the company for past due coupons amounting in the aggregate
to more than the sum thus put in the hands of the receiver,
and they presented petitions for payment out of the fund.
Afterwards the court ordered the receiver to pay back the
$32,216.20 to the company, and to turn over the mortgaged
property to the trustees. The record did not show that there
were any other creditors than such as were secured by the
mortgages, which exceeded in amount the value of the property.
From that part of the decree directing the restoration of the
money to the company the trustees took this appeal. The
creditors who presented petitions for the payment of their
judgments did not appeal, so that the only question presented
here was whether the court erred in ordering the receiver to
pay the $32,216.20 to the company instead of the trustees.
-Mr. U. -.

Rose for appellants.

Mr. Wager Sivayne for appellee.
11R. CHEF JUSTUCE WAITE,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It is well settled that the mortgagor of a railroad, even
though the mortgage *c6vers income, cannot be required to
account to the mortgagee for earnings, while the property
remains in his possession, until a demand has been made on
him therefor, or for a surrender of the possession under the
provisions of the mortgage. That is the effect of what was
decided by this court in Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11
Wall. 459, 483.
In the present case a demand was made for the possession
by the bringing of this suit, February 12, 1884, and from that
time, in our opinion, the company must account. The bill was
not filed to foreclose the mortgage, but to enforce a surrender
of possession to the trustees in accordance with its terms.
The court below decided that the trustees were entitled to the
possession when the suit was begun, and from the decree to

DOW v. MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

that effect no appeal has been prosecuted. We must assume,
therefore, that the demand was rightfully made, and ought to
have been granted. It follows that after the suit was begun
the company wrongfully withheld the p6ssession, and under
such circumstances equity forbids that it should retain, as
against the mortgagee, the fruits of its refusal to do what it
ought to have done. It is a matter of no consequence that a
receiver was not appointed until April 15, or that an application was not made for such an appointment until Marcii 24.
If the surrender of possession had been made, as we must
assume it ought to have been, as soon as the suit was begun, a
receiver would have been unnecessary. All that was done
afterwards in that particular was in aid of the suit and because of the refusal of the company to comply with the
demand that had been made. It follows that from the time
of the bringing of the suit the company itself is to be treated
in all respects as a receiver of the property, holding for the
benefit of whomsoever in the end it should be found to concern, and liable to account accordingly. In GaZvestozm Rail,roadv. Cowdrey, before iited, the controversy was in respect
to earnings before suit brought, and the suit was for foreclosure only, the court being careful to say in its opinion that
it did not "appear that the complainants or their trustees
made any demand for the tolls and income until they filed the
present bill," and that "the bill itself did not contain any allegation of 'such a demand."
It remains only to inquire when the money which is the
subject matter of the controversy was actually earned, and we
have no hesitation in deciding, upon the evidence, that it must
have been after the suit was began. The admission is that on
the 27th of M arch the amount in the hands of the company
was $42,123.68. Between that date and April 15, the company paid out $46,458.16, which was $433,.48 in excess of
what it had on hand at the beginning. On the 15th of April
it had on hand $32,216.20, thus showing that its earnings from
March 27 until then must have been $36,550.68. The fair inference from the evidence is that the receipts were all from
the current earnings and the disbursements for the current

OCTOBER- TERMi; 1887.
Syllabus.

expenses.

The railroad was-all the time, before and after *the

suit, a, "going concern," "andcits receipts and disbursements

the subjects of current income aicount. Applying the disbursements as- they were made .from the income to. the payment of the older liabilities for the expenses, as is the rule in
ordinary running accountsi -i As: clear that, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, the mQney on hand was earned penaing
the suit.
Under these circiimstances,' as there are no current expense
creditors'claiming the fund, we are satisfied that the money is
to be treated as income covered by the mortgages, and should
be paid to the trustees to be held as part of that security.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
1?eversed, and tIe cause r'emanded witl istructions to enter
a decree in accordancewit&this pipnion.

HOBOKEN v. PENNSYLVANIA
PANY.

RAILROAD

COM-

SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SCIIMIDT.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. HAMBURG-AAMERICAN
COMPANTY.

STEAM PACKET

SAME v. NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT GOURT OF THE UNITED

STEAMSHIP
STATES

FOR THD

DISTRICT- OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued February 8, S, 1888.-Decided February 20, 1888.

The-title of tile Pennsylvania Railroad Company to its lands in controversy,
derived by grant from the Hoooken Land and Improvement Company,.
was conflaip d and enlargecl'by the ac.t of the legislature of XNew Jersev
of Marc f1,1869, "t enable the United Companies to improve lands

