BEAiRD v. PORTER.

437

Statement of the Case.

BEARD v. PORTER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF M ASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January 19,1888.-

Decided January 80, 18M5.

Merchandise was delivered to it9 importer after he had paid the duties on
it as first liquidated. Within a year after the entry, the local appraiser
made a reappraisal and a second report, from which the importer appealed, within such year. The board of reappraisemont met after the
year; the importer was present; the merchandise was not reappraised
because it could not be found, and it was not examined; and the fees of
the merchant appraiser were paid by the importer. The second report
of the local appraiser increased the values of the goods from the invoice
values, disallowed a discount which appeared on the invoice, and changed
the rate'of duty on some of the merchandise. The collector, after the
expiration of the year, made a new liquidation, by disallowing .the discount and changing the rate of duty, as suggested by the local appfaiser:
Held, that, under § 21 of the act 6f June 22, 1874 (18 Stat. 190) the first
liquidation of duties was final and conclusive against the United States,
as it did not appear that the second liquidation was based on any increase
of the value of the merchandise, or that the disallowance of the discount
and the change of the rate of duty depended on such increase, or were
involved, in any proper action of the local appraiser in appraising the
merchandise, or were matters which could not have been finally acted
npon by the collector at any time within a year from the entry as wNyg
as at any other time, and without any reference to any increase in the
appraised values of the goods.Whether the taking of steps by the collector for a reappraisement lY a
local appraisei,, within a year from the thme of the entry, in a case where
the question of reliquidation depends strictly upon a reappraisement of
the value of the merchandise will have the effect to make the reliquidation valid, under § 21, although that is made after the expirationof the
year, qy. ,re.
The "protest" referred to in § 21 is a protest against the prior "settlement
of duties" which the section proposes to declare to be final after the
expiration of the year.
It Is not necessary that the plaintiff should show.by his declaration that he,
has brought the suit within the time limited by § 2931 of the Revisect
Statutes, although that must appear, as a condition precedent to his
recovery,

Tmis was an action against a collector to recover an excess
of duties paid on imported goods. Judgment for plaintiff, to

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

review which defendant sued out 'this writ of error. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.Solicitor Generalfor plaintiff in error.
! r.C'arles Levi Woodbury for defendant in error.
M-u. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, by the members of
the copartnership firm of Cushing, Porter & Cades, against
Alanson W. Beard, collector of customs, to recover the sum of
$3228.10, with interest, as an excess of duties paid under pro-

test on the importation of certain merchandise into the port.
of Boston, in May, June, July, August, and September, 1878.
The question involved arises on the fourth count of the
declaration, which is in these -Vords:
"And the plaintiffs further say, that, on the several espective dates, and by the vessels, named in the account annexed
to the first count of said declaration, they imported and
entered at the custom-house in said Boston, the goods described
in the several items of said account annexed, and the defendant duly lfquidated the duties on said goods, and the plaintiffs
paid the same, .and the said defendant then and there delivered
to the plaintiffs all of the said goods.
"And the plaintiffs say, that, long afterwards, and after the
lapse of more than one year from said respective dates of
entry, the defendant made a new liquidation and settlement,
of duties upon said goods entered as aforesaid, and demanded
of the plaintiffs the full sum of three thousand thirty dollars
and five cents, as additional duties upon said goods so entered
as aforesaid. And the plaintiffs say, that they protested against
such second liquidation. and settlement of dujies, and protested
against the payment of said sum, and alleged in said protest,
and now allege, that said second liquidation was made after
the payment of the duties as first ascertained, and after the
goods had been delivered to the plaintiffs, and more than one
year after said several dates of entry, and the same was and is

BEARD v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

illegal and void. Plaintiffs appealed to the Secretary of the
Treasury, who decided thereon, affirming the actibn of the
defendant.
"And the plaintiffs further say, that they dIenied, by said
protest and appeal, the right of the government and of this
defendant to make such second liquidation and demand, and,
doubts having arisen as to the right of the plaintiffs to recover
back the same if paid, should the defendant contest the same
upon the ground that such payment was voluntary, the plaintiffs, by their attorney, addressed a letter to the Secretary of
the Treasury of the United States, a copy of which is hereto
annexed, rAarked A, and received in reply thereto a letter
from said Secretary, a copy of which is hereto annexed,
marked B, and said Secretary also addressed a letter to the
United States attorney for. said district, a copy whereof is
hereto annexed, marked 0, which was exhibitec. to the plaintiffs' attorney before the payment by the plaintiffs to defendant of the sum demanded up6n said second liquidaiion. And
the-plaintifis say, that, relying upon the said agreement and
assurance of the Secretary of the Treasury, that the question
of voluntary payment should not be raised or set up in any
manner as-a defence to a suit by the plaintiffs to recover back
said sum, the plaintiffs were induced to and did pay the said
defendant, under protest and appeal, the said sum of three
thousand thirty .ollars and five cents ($3030.05) illegally
ascertained and demanded as aforesaid, the same being the full
sum demanded by the defendant, and the defendant now owes
the plaintiffs the said sum, with interest thereon."
The defendant answered the fourth count as follows:
"And now comies the defendant, and for answer to the
fourth count of the plaintiffs' declaration, as amended, says:
"That, after the first liquidation, as .set forth in said fourth
count, and within one year from the time of the entries therein
described, the defendant caused said invoices to .bo-sent to
a United States local appraiser for reappraisal; that said
appraiser, within a year from the date of said entries, made a
new report thereon; that the plaintiffs, upon notice of this
report, and within one year from the date of the entries,

OCTOBER TERM,- 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

except by the Parthia of May 6th, 1818, and one day after
the..expiration of the year in case of the entry by said Parthia,
appealed from said report, and requested a redppraisement
according to law, a copy of which request is hereto annexed;
that a merchant appraiser was thereafter appointed by the
defendant to act with the general' appraiser in the appraisal
of the merchandise described in said entries, within one year
from the date of entry, except in case of the said Parthia, in
which it was after the expiration of the year; that said board
of-appraisal held many meetings at which the plaintiffs were
present personally and by counsel, said meetings being after
the expiration of one year from the date of said entries; that,
as, to the goods in controversy, said board reported that they
did not reappraise them, for the reason that they could not be
found and were not examined by them; that the fees of the
merchant appraiser were paid by the plaintiff; that at no
time before the final liquidation did the plaintiffs claim that
the first liquidation was final and conclusive, or object to the
second liquidation or to the reappraisal by the local appraiser,
otherwise than by their appeal therefrom as aforesaid, or by
the board of reappraisement, or to the power of the defendant
to order a reappraisal, though well knowing the facts above
set forth; that the second report aforesaid of the local appraiser increased the values of said goods from the invoice
values, disallowed a discount of twelve and one-half per centun, which appeared on the invoices, and changed the rate of
some of the merchandise; that the second liquidation, the
subject of this suit, was made by the defendant by the disallowance of said discount and by changing the rate of duty, as
suggested by the local appraiser as aforesaid."
The plaintiffs filed a demurrer to the answer to the fourth
count of the'declaration, setting forth that such answer was
not sufficient in law, and that the defendant had set out no
sufficient grounds to avoid the final and conclusive effect upon
all parties thereto of the first liquidation made by the collector
of the several entries in the case. - The court sustained the
demurr6r, and ordered that judgment-be entered for the plaintiffs for an amount to be found by an assessor. The assessor

BEARD v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

reported in favor of the plaintiffs for $3228.10, and a judgment was entered in their favor, on April 12, 1884, for that
amount, with interest from the date of the writ. The defendant has brought a writ of error to review this judgment.
The question involved in this case arises on § 21 of the act
of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. 190, which provides, "that, whenever any goods, wares, and merchandise shall have been
entered and passed free of duty, and whenever duties upon
any imported goods, wares, and merchandise shall have been
liquidated and paid, and such goods, wares, and merchandise
shall have been delivered to the owner, importer, agent, or
consignee, such entry and passage free of duty and such settlement of duties shall, after the expiration of one year from the
time of entry, in the absence of fraud, and. in the absence of.
protest by the owner, importer, agent, or consignee, be final
and conclusive upon all parties."
The claim on the part of the defendant is, that, inasmuch
as the collector, within one year from the time of the entries
mentioned in the fourth count, caused the invoices to be sent
to a local appraiser for a reappraisal, and the appraiser within
such year made a new report thereon, such reappraisement
was the first step in the continuous legal proceeding which
terminated in the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury
mentioned in the fourth count; that the plaintiffs applied for
a reappraisement, which application was made within one
year from the date of the entries, except as to one entry; that
the contest thus begun was continued by the plaintiffs after
the expiration of the one year, until the collector made the
second liquidation; that the plaintiffs paid the fees of the
merchant appraiser, and did not, prior to the making of the
final liquidation, claim that the first liquidation was conclusive; and that the plaintiffs, by such proceedings, waived the
objection now taken by them to the final liquidation. That
objection is, that the final liquidation was made after the
expiration of one year from the time of entry, and that, therefore, under § 21 of the act of 1874, the first liquidation and
the payment of the duties thereunder was a settlement of
duties, which was final and conclusive upon all parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the settlement of duties in the present case was conclusive upon the United States. We do not
find it necessary to decide wheiher the taking of steps by the
collector for a reappraisement by a local appraiser, within ".
year from the time of the entry, in a case where the question
of reliquidation depends strictly upon a reappraisement of the
value of the merchandise, will have the effect, as contended by
the defendant, to make the reliquidation valid, although that
is made after the expiration of one year from the time of the
entry; because it appears, by the answer to the fourth count
in the present case, that, although the second report of the
local appraiser increased the values of the goods from the
invoice values, and also disallowed a discount of 121, per cent,
which appeared upon the invoices, and changed the rate of
some of the merchandise, the second liquidation, which is the
subject of this suit, was made by the defendant solely by
disallowing such discount and by changing the rate of duty.
It does not appear that such second liquidation was based at
all upon any increase of the values of the goods from the
invoice values; or that such disallowance of the discount and
such change of the rate of duty were matters which depended
upon any increase in the appraised values of the goods, or were
matters at all involved in any. proper action of the local
appraiser in appraising the goods, or were matters which
could not have been finally acted upon by the colle6tor at any
time within a year from the date of the original entry as well
as at any other time, and without reference to any increase in
the appraised values of the goods. There is no allegation that
there was any fraud in the case.
It is suggested on the part of the defendant, that the settlement of duties spoken of in § 21 of the act is made final and
conclusive upon all parties only in the absence of protest by
the owner or importer, and that in this case a protest was
filed. But the protest referred to in § 21 is, manifestly, a
protest against the prior liquidation or settlement of duties
which the section proposes to declare to be final and conclusive
after the expiration of one year from the time of entry. .No

protest against that liquidation had been made.

BEARD v. PORTER.
Opinion of the, Court.

It is also contended on the part of the defendant, that, as
this suit was brough on the 21st of April, 1882, and it is not
stated in the fourth count of the declaration at what date the
decision of the Secretary of the Treasury on the appeal was
made, and as § 2931 of the Revised Statutes provides that the
decision of the Secretary on the appeal shall be final and
conclusive, unless suit shall be brought within ninety days
after such decision, the plaintiffs should have alleged in the
count that they had brought the suit within the time prescribed by the statute; and that this defect in the count can
be availed of by the defendant on the demurrer of the plaintiffs to the answer to the count.
It is true that this court decided, in Arnsom v. Murphy, 115
U. S. 579, following the decision in the same case in 109 U. S.
238, that, where an action is brought under § 3011, to recover
back an excess of duties paid under protest,, the plaintiff ,must,
under § 2931, as a condition precedent to.'his recovery, show
not only due protest and appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, -but also that the action was brought within the time
required by the statutei It was also held in the case in 115
U. S., that the conditions imposed by § 2931 were not matters
a failure to comply with which must be pleaded by the
defendant as a statute of limitations, inasmuch as the right of
action did not exist, independently of the statute, but was
conferred by it. This ruling was made on the authority of the
case of Ch'eadham v. United State8, 92 U. S.85. But, while
the plaintiff must, in order to recover in the suit, show, in a
proper case, that be has br6ught the suit within the time
limited by § 2931, we do not regard it as indispensable that the
declaration should state the fact, inasmuch as it is provided, in
§ 3012, that no suit shall be "maintained" for the recovery of
duties alleged to have been erroneously or illegally exacted
by a collector of customs, unless the plaintiff shall, within
thirty days after due notice of the appearance of the defendant, serve a bill of particulars of the plaintiff's demand, giving,
among other items, the date of the appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury and the date of his decision, if any, or such
appeal. This requirement seems to make it unnecessary to state

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

substantially the same thing in the declaration. Nothing
appears in the record in this case from which it can be inferred
that the suit was not brought within the prescribed time; and,
in view of the fact that the taking of the appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury and the rendering of his decision thereon
afiming the action of the collector are §et forth in the fourth
count of the declaration, it must be inferred that it was conceded that the suit was brought within the prescribed time.
It is proper to state that the United States waived in this
case all claim-that the plaintiffs voluntarily made the payment
of the duties sought to be recovered.
The judgment of the Circut Court is affirmed.

WESTEIRN UNION TEtEGRAPII COMPANY v. IA.LL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued Noveiber 30, 1887.-Decided January 30, 1888.

The damages to be recovered in an action against a telegraph company for
negligent delay in transmitting a message respecting a contract for the
purchase or sale of property are, by analogy with the settled rules in
actions between parties to such contracts, only such as the parties must
or would have contemplated in making the contract, and such as naturally
flow from- the breach of its performance, and are ordinarily measured
by actual losses based upon changes in the market values of the property:
And, accordingly, where such an action was brought to recover damages
caused by a delay ih the transmission of a message directing the person
to whom it was addressed to purchase property in the open market on
behalf of the sender, by means of which delay that person was prevented
from making the purchase on the day on which it was sent, and it ap-pearing that he did not make the purchase on the following day in consequence of an immediate large advance in price, nor at any subsequent
day; and it not appearing, further, either that the order to purchase was
given by the sender in the expectation of profits by an immediate resale,
or that he could have sold at a profit on any subsequent day if he had
bought: Held, that the only damage for which he was entitled to recover
was the cost of transmitting the delayed message.

