STEWART v. - MASTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Similar orders may be entered in Brown v. Hazzard, and Brown
v. Ranck, which were submitted on like motions.
Mr. Attorney General Garland on behalf of Hazzard and Ranek,
and Mr. TV.. TV. U2pton on behalf of Ranck, for the motion.
Mr..LeanderHolmes opposing.

STEWART v. MASTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted January 9, 1888.-Decided January 30, 1888.

The signing of a citation after the expiration of the term to which an appeal taken with security was returnable, and after the commencement
of the following term, and without taking new security, is in effect the
granting of a new appeal returnable at the next term of court thereafter.
An appeal docketed in this court after a term ends and before the next f 1lowing term begins, is docketed as of the next following term.
An appeal bond having become inoperative by reason of failure to docket
the appeal at the next term of this court, and a new appeal having been
granted without the filing of a new bond, on motion to dismiss for want
of filing an appeal bond; Held, that the motion should be granted unless
appellant, before a day fixed by the order, should file a bond with the
clerk of this court, with sureties to the satisfaction of the Justice allotted to the Circuit. Brown v. McConnell, ante, 489, followed.
MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

couirt.

-M'. . S. Hende for the motion.

2l[r. . C. Lancaster opposing.
MR. CiEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The facts on which this motion rests are these: The decree
from which the appeal was taken was rendered November 7,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

1884, and contained on its face the allowance of an appeal to
this court. That appeal was returnable to October Term,
1885, which began October 12 of that year. It does not appear that any bond was approved during the term at which
the decree was rendered, but one was approved October 10,
1885, which was before the beginning of the return term. A
citation was signed November 2, 1885, after that term began,
requirihg the appellee to appear in this court on the second
Monday in October, 1886. This citation was served February
17, 1886, but the case was not docketed in this court until
June 11, 1886, which was after our term of 1885 ended but
before that of 1886 began.
The bond approved October 10, 1885, must be deemed to
have been taken under the appeal allowed in open court, and
as that appeal became inoperative by reason of the failure to
docket it here during the term of 1885, the only question we
have now to determine is, whether the signing of the citation
November 2, 1885, was in effect the allowance of a new appeal,
returnable at the term of 1886. We have just decided in
Brown v. 7lfcConnell, ante, 489, that it was; but as the bond
which was executed October 10, 1885, became inoperative by
the failure to docket the first appeal in time, we now
Order that this appeal be dismis&.ed, undess the apellantshall,
on or before the 19th day of .AXarch next, file with the clerk
of this court a bond in the penaZ sum of $500, conditioned
according to lao, for the purposes-of the appeal, with
sureties to the 8atisfaction of the Justice of this court
alotted to the Fifth Circuit.

