GUMBEL v. rITKIN.
Syllabus.

built when the amendatory act was passed. No right had
vested in any tracts of land, and the power, as well as intent,
of Congress to require such payment cannot be contested."
The same statutory provisions were under consideration in
Railway Co. v. McSh7ane, 22 Wall. 444. In that' case, in
reference to the provision of § 21 of the act of 1864:, this
court said (p. 462): "That the payment of these costs of surveying the land is a condition precedent to the right to receive
the title from the Government, can admit of no doubt. Until
this is done, the equitable title of the company is incomplete.
There remains a payment to be made to perfect it. There is
something to be done, without which the company is hot
entitled to a.patent."

This view was affirmed in respect to like statutory provisions
concerning the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, in the
case of )Yorthern Pacit Railroad Co. v. Traill County, 115
U. S. 600, where, by an act passed in.
1870, Congress had provided that before any land granted to the company by the
United States should -be conveyed there should first be paid
into the Treasury of the United States the cost of surveying,
selecting, and conveying the same.
.These views seem to us to be decisive in the present case,
and,
The judgment of the Court of Claims is fJfrnmwd.

GULBEL v. PITK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued Deceraber 20, 1887.-Decided January 9,1888.

A court of the United States, sitting as a court of law, has an equitable
power over its own process to prevent abuse, opifression, and injustice;
which power may be invoked by a stranger to the litigation as incident
to the jurisdiction already vested, and without regard to his own citizenship.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
A marshal holding propertynnder color of a writ of attachment, even if
found to be invalid, issued from a court of the United States in an
action at law, can be made to hold also under a writ from a state court
subsequently served by the garnishment process; and if the creditor in
the process from the State intervenes in the cause in the Federal Court,
and invokes its equitable powers, it is the duty of the Federal Court to
take jurisdiction, and to give such relief as justice may require, and such
priority of.lien as the laws of the State respecting attachments permit,
without regard to citizenship.
The exercise of the jurisdition conferred upon Circuit Courts of the United
States by Rev. Stat. § 915 to administer the attachment laws of the
State in which the court is held, necessarily draws to itself everything
properly incidental, even though it may bring into thc court, for the
adjudication of their rights, parties not otherwise subject to its jurisdiction; and is ample to sanction the practice of permitting the constructive levy, by attaching creditors under state process, upon property
in possession of a United States marshal by virtue of an attachment
made under a process from a Circuit Court of the United States for the
same district, and their intervention in proceedings in the latter court
where, as between state courts of concurrent jurisdiction, a similar
method of acquiring and adjusting conflicting rights is prescribed.
A and B were citizens of th6 same State. A sued out a writ of attacliment
against B from a court of the State on a Saturday. On the following
Monday the sheriff attempted to levy the attachment, and found the
property of the debtor in the custody of the United States marshal for
the district, who had seized it by virtue of writs of attachment issued
aid levied on the intervening Sunday from the Circuit Court of the
United States, in favor of other creditors. Being unable to obtain
possession of the property from the marshal, he placed keepers about
the building (who remained there until the sale) and served notice of
seizure upon the marshal, and also process of garnishment. Subsequently, on the same Monday, the same and other creditors levied on the
same property under other writs of attachment issued from the Circuit
Court of the United States on that day, and the property, which remained
all the time in the custody of the marshal, -was finally sold by hin under
the Monday writs, the Sunday writs having been abandoned. .eld, that
it was the duty of the court, having in its custody the fund arising from
the sale of the property, all the parties interested in the fund being
before it, to do complete justice between them, and to give to A priority, as if he had been permitted to make an actual levy under his
writ.

THE statement of the case, prepared by the court, and prefixed to its opinion, was as follows:

This case was before this court on a motion to dismiss the

GU-MBEL v. PITKIN.
Statement of the Case.

writ of error, the result of which is reported in 113 'U. S. 545.
It is now here for final disposition upon its merits.
It appears by the record that a number of creditors of
Joseph Dreyfus brought several actions at law against him as
a citizen of Louisiana in the Circuit Court of the United States
for that district, the plaintiffs being citizens of other States, in
which writs of attachment were issued, and levied upon the
stock of goods belonging to him contained in a store and
warehouse, No. 33, Tchoupitoulas Street, in the city of New
Orleans. In these actions judgments were rendered in favor
of the several plaintiffs, and proceedings were had in them
whereby the attached property in the hands of the marshal
was sold, and the proceeds brought into the court for distribution. Pending these proceedings, and before an actual sale
under- the order of the court, Cornelius Gumbel, a citizen of
Louisiana, the present plaintiff in error, fied a petition, called,
according to the practice in that State, a petition of intervention
and third opposition. In that petition he shows that on October 27, 1883, he instituted a suit in the Civil District Court
for the parish of Orleans against Joseph Dreyfus, and obtained
therein a writ of attachment, which he alleges was executed
by a seizure of the defendant's property, being the same as that
levied on by the marshal in the actions in the Circuit Court;
that subsequently judgment was rendered in his favor for the
amount of his claim and interest, on which a writ of fl. fa.
was issued to the sheriff of said Civil District Court, directing
the seizure and sale of the same property to satisfy his judgment; that the sheriff was obstructed in the execution of said
writs, and the petitioner prevented from realizing the fruits
thereof by the fact that the property subject to his attachment
is in the actual custody of the marshal of the United States.
The petition particularly sets out the facts constituting a conflict of jurisdiction to be, that on the morning of the 29th of
October, 1883, when it was claimed that the sheriff had made
his levy under the petitioner's writ of attachment, he found at
the store, claiming to exercise rights of possession and control,
deputy marshals of the Circuit Court in charge as keepers, and
in execution of writs of attachment issued from that court; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement .of the Case.

at the time of the seizure made by the sheriff no valid or legal
writ had issued from the Circuit Court; -thatthe writ or writs
under which the marshal or his deputies were holding and
claiming to hold the property had been issued on Sunday,
October 28, 1883, and were absolutely null and void, both by
common law and the statute law of Louisiana; that said writs
so issued on Sunday, on account of their illegality, were discontinued and abandoned by the plaintiffs in the several suits
in which they had been issued; that other writs subsequently
issued in the same actions were issued to the marshal, and
under them he detained the property, which, however, in the
meantime had become subject to the seizure under the petitioner's writ in the hands of the sheriff. The petition prays
that the property in the custody of the marshal then advertised for sale should be restored to and placed in the hands of
the civil sheriff, to be sold under the petitioner's writs of execution, in order that the proceeds might be distributed by the
Civil District Court, or, if sold by the marshal, that the proceeds of the sale be ordered to be paid over to the civil sheriff,
to be distributed by the Civil District Court, and also "for
such other and further aid, remedy, and relief as the nature of
the case may require and law and equity permits." This
petition of intervention was filed by leave of the court, and
with it a transcript of the proceedings in the Civil District
Court in the case of Gumbel against Dreyfus.. The motion of
the intervenor for a stay of the marshal's sale of the goods
levied on was denied, and thereupon, on January 21, 1884, by
leave of the Circuit Court, an amended and supplemental
petition of intervention was filed by him, and also on the 8th
of March, 1884, a second supplemental petition. In these, the
petitioner claims that if it be held in fact and in law that the
marshal of the Circuit Court had effected a seizure of the property attached, which vested the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
as to its disposition and the distribution of 'its proceeds, and
rendered impossible any actual seizure or physical control over
the property by the civil sheriff, the intervenor is entitled to
have his attachment recognized by the Circuit Court, and to
share in the distribution of the proceeds of the property accord-

GUMBEL v. PITKIN.
Statement of the Case.

ing to priority of time of seizure under the laws of the State;
and alleges that in addition to the efforts made and proceed-

ings had in behalf of the intervenor, the United States marshal
had been served with interrogatories as garnishee, and in every
legal and practicable way notified of the writ held by the
sheriff, whereby a valid seizure was effected on petitioner's
behalf, to take rank according to the time at which it was
thus executed; and claims, in consequence, to be entitled to
payment out of the fund in preference to all other attaching
creditors.
The attaching creditors, plaintiffs inthe Circuit Court, were
made parties to these petitions of intervention, to which they
appeared and answered. The cause came on for hearing in the
Circuit Court, and judgment was rendered therein dismissing
the petitions of intervention and distributing the entire fund
in court, being the proceeds of the sales of the attached property, to the other parties plaintiffs -inthe attachments in that
court. The facts in relation to the levies under the attachments are found by the court as follows (20 Fed. Rep. 426):
"Various creditors had obtained attachments on Sunday in
this court which were also levied on Sunday. The same and
other creditors obtained attachments in several suits also in
this court, some early Monday morning, shortly after midnight, and others between 8.and 10 o'clock A.M., which were
also levied upon the same property.
"The intervenor had obtained his writ from the state court
on Saturday. Early Monday morning, shortly after midnight,
and while the marshal was holding possession of -the property
under the Sunday writs alone, the sheriff came to the store
where the property was situated for the purpose of serving the
writ and demanded entrance, which the marshal refused. The
sheriff placed his keepers around the building and guarded
the same continuously down to the time of the sale, and served
notice of seizure and subsequently process of garnishment upon
the marshal in pharge of the store [before the service of any
of the Monday writs] who had executed the process of attachment from this court. The marshal preserved his possession
without interruption from the moment of seizure down to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

time he sold the property under the Monday writs, the Sunday
writs having been abandoned. The property seized was the
wines and brandies, etc., the stock of 'a wholesale liquor store."
p,427.
The grounds of law on which the Circuit Court denied the
right of the intervenor to participate in the distribution of the
proceeds of the sale are stated as a conclusion of law, as
follows:
"1. As to the effect of what was done by the sheriff, nothing is before the court except the proceeds of a sale. They
and they alone can have an award who show title; and, since
all claim under process against the property of a common
debtor, those alone who show a levy of the process upon the
property ; for in this State the issuance and existence of the
process create no lien. It disposes of this part of the case
to say that the sheriff made no seizure, no caption of the
property. Its possession was withheld from him and -access
to it was forcibly denied him. Whether this was done under
color of a good or bad writ, or without any writ, all seizure
was prevented and no lien was effected. This would end the
case of the intervenor as to any privilege upon the fund.
unless he can maintain that the marshal, holding under color
of a writ from this court, can be made to hold also under a
writ from the state court subsequently served by the garnishment process. The authorities for this proposition cited are
Pattersonv. Stephenson, unreported, decided by the Supreme
Court of Missouri, at the April term, 1883, and Bates v. J)ay8,
17 Fed. Rep. 167. Those cases are put by the courts, which
decided them upon'a statute of the State of Missouri, which
was deemed to have been adopted by the practice act of Congress regulating the procedure in the Federal courfs. In
Louisiana we have no such statute, and there is, therefore, no,
need to discuss the question as to what would be the legal consequences if one. existed. In this State the courts are to be
guided by the doctrine which is settled by the cases of lagyav
V. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400, and Taylor v. Carryl,20 How. 583, to
the effect that when property susceptible of manual deliver v
has been seized and is held by the officer of and under pro-

GUIBEL v.' PITKIN.
Statement of the Case.

cess from the court of one jurisdiction, it is incapable to be
subjected to seizure by another officer of and under process
from the, court of another jurisdiction. The authorities 'are
collated in lilmer v. Atlanta and Richmond Air Line Railroad Company, 2 Woods, 409, 427, 428. It follows, then, that
since the goods were and continued to be in the physical possession and custody of the marshal, under writs of thir court,
the intervenor could have acquired and did acquire no interest
in the goods under his writ from the state court, and he can
have no claim to the proceeds arising from their sale." pp.
427, 428.
Proceeding further in its judgment to determine the order
of priority of the creditors who attached under the writs from
that court, the Circuit Court said: "No right is claimed, and
no right could have been acquired under the Sunday writs or
seizures. The statute prohibits (Civ. Pr., art. 207) the institution of suits, and all judicial proceedings on Sunday. The question then is as to the priority of the attachments which were
issued on Monday, i.e.,' after 12 o'clock on .Monday morning."
The judgment then proceeds to award priority among these
writs according to the order in which they were levied, after
they came into the possession of the marshal, by him. On
the trial of the issues upon the petitions of intervention, as
appears by a bill of exceptions in the record, the intervenor
offered in evidence a transcript of*the proceedings and judgment of the Civil District Court for the parish of Orleans in
tne suit in which he was plaintiff against Dreyfus, to the
introduction of which the defendants objected. From that
transcript it appears that by a petition in that cause it was
alleged that Pitkin, the marshal of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, was indebted to the defendant,
or had property and effects in his possession or under his control belonging to the defendant, wherefore it was prayed that
Pitkin, as marshal, be made garnishee, and ordered to answer
under oath the accompanying interrogatories filed therewith.
A citation was issued thereon to Pitkin requiring him to
answer the interrogatories, which, according to the sheriff's
return, was, together with a copy of the original and supple-

OCTO3ER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

mental petition and .interrogatories in the cause, served on
Pitkin in person on October 29, 1883, at 25 minutes past 12
A.m. The sheriff's return to the writ of attachment is as follows:
'"Ceceiveal Oct. 21th, 1883, ,and on the 29th day of October,
1883, proceeded to execute this writ against the movable
property of deft described more fully in my notice of seizure
when I found the said property in possession of the U. S.
marshal, and by instructions of pl't'ff's att'y placed my keepers on the sidewalk in front of said property, and kept them
continually, both night and day, until January 25th, '84, when
they were withdrawn by order of the pl't'ff's att'y; also made
gen~ral seizure by garnishment in the hands of J. R. G.
Pitkin, marshal of the U. S. Dist. Court; from said general
seizure nothing has. as yet come into my possession or under
my control, and this return is made up to date for the purpose of enabling the clerk of this cpurt to complete a transcript
of appeal."
It further appears from the transcript that on N"ovember '7,
1883, Pitkin appeared in the Civil District Court as garnishee
without answering the interrogatories, and excepted to the jurisdiction of the court. On November 16, 1883, judgment was
rendered by the Civil District Court in favor of Gumbel and
against Dreyfus for the sum of $23,184.57, with interest from
October 24, 1883, "with lien and privilege on the property
herein attached, and that plaintiff's claim be paid by preference over and above all other creditors, with costs of suit."
On December 6, 1883, a rule was granted by the Civil District Court upon Pitkin, requiring him to show cause why he
should not desist from interference with the sheriff in the
custody of the attached property or be punished for contempt
of the court in obstructing the execution of its orders and
judgments; and also a rule was granted December 1(, 1883,
upon the marshal, jointly with the attaching creditors in the
Circuit Court of the United States, requiring them to show
cause why the property seized under the attachment issued at
the suit of Gumbel should not be sold, and the proceeds of
the sale distributed in that cause. On January 4, 1884, some

GUMBEL v. PITKIN.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

of the defendants to that rule, without answering the same,
excepted to the jurisdiction of the court, on the ground "that
it is incompetent to either sell the property, or determine the
rank of the attaching creditors, or distribute the proceeds of
said property, for the reason that the said property was in the
hands of th6 United States marshal under attachment issued
by order of the judge of the Circuit Court oT the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana at the time of
said pretended seizure by the civil sheriff." On January 14,
1884, the transcript of the record shows the following entry:
"The rule and exception herein fixed for this day was by
consent of counsel ordered to be continued indefinitely."
Xr. COarles F. Buck for plaintiff in error. .Xr. George H.
Braughn was with him on the brief.
Xr. George Denegre, .7k&. Walter D. Denegre and Xr.
Thomas L. Bayne filed a brief for defendants in error, ftoffheimer & Brothers.
.Hr.Assistant Attorney General Xaury, with whom was r:
Thomas J. Semmes, for defendants in error, Maddox; Hobart
& Co., Kerbs & Spies; and Corning & Co.
The case turns on the question of seizure by the garnishment
proceedings.
Actual physical possession is necessary to constitute a valid
seizure under a writ of fierifacias,or a writ of attachment, unless there be gaiishment proceedings; then service of interrogatories on the garnishee suffices.. Haggerty v. TVilber, 16 Johns.
287; S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 321; Scott v. Davis, 26 La. Ann. 688;
Stockton v. Downey, 6 La. Ann. 585; Page v. Generes, 6 La.
Ann. 549, 551; Dennitown v. .Zrew York Steam Faucet Co.,
6 La. Ann. 782; N~elson v. Simpson, 9 La. Ann. 311. It is
admitted that priority of pfivilege is dependent upon the date
of seizure, and not upon the date of issue of the writ, and,
when necessary, fractions of the day will be noticed. 0.P.
Art. 723; Schofield v. BradZee, 8 Mart. 495; Heyp v. Glover,
15 La. 461; S. C. 35 Am: Dec. 206; IRarmon v. Juge, 6 La.
Ann. 768.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Defendants in Zrror.

Indeed, seizure alone will not confer priority unless it is
followed up by a judgment in the lifetime of the debtor or
before a cessio 5onorum, or surrender to his creditors; the
death or insolvency of the debtor before judgment defeats the
attachment. Hanna v. 6(reditors,12 Mart. 32; Beek v. Brady,
6 La. Ann. 44; -Fisherv. Yose, 3 Rob. La. 457; S. C. 38 Am.
Dec. 243 ; Co~lins v. Dufy, 7 La. Ann. 39. The case is thus
reduced to the effect of the seizure in the hands bf the marshal
as garnishee.
The proceedings show that the plaintiff in error relied all
the while on his physical seizure, or attempted physical seizure,
and not on his garnishment proceedings; he never attempted
to obtain judgment against the garnishee; the proceedings
against the garnishee were stopped by his exception to the
jurisdiction of the court, on the ground that it could not hold
him liable as garnishee in his oficial capacity for property in
his officiaZpossession.
The garnishment proceedings were not relied on; what the
plaintiff in error has always blaimed is, the right of the sheriff
to hold the goods, as first possessor under the state writ. This
contention fails if no such seizure was made, and there should
be. an end of his case. !-agan. v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400, and
Z'aylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, settle the question that goods
in possession of the marshal are not susceptible of seizure by
process from a state court. See also Pullam v. Osborne, 17
How. 471. On the same principle it has been decided that a
debt cannot be attached in a state court after suit has been
brought upon it in a court of the United States. Wallace v.
JlrcConnell, 13 Pet. 136 ; Thomas v. Wooldridge, 2 Woods, 68.
There cannot be two possessions of the same goods at the same
time by two separate courts under writs issued from, different
jurisdictions. The Louisiana statute referred to in the brief of
the appellant-is a statute regulating the adjustment of privileges
when property has been seized by different courts of the State;
this adjustment is to be made by the court by whose mandate
the property. was first seized, and for that purpose all suits are
to be transferred to such 5ourt. It is similar to the state insolvent law; which profides that when the debtor makes a cessio

GUMBEL v. PITKINT.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

bonorum, all suits against his person and property are to be
transferred to the insolvent court. . The Missouri statute is.
totally dissimilar. The Louisiana statute merely provides what
court shall have jurisdiction to classify privileges in case of confficts between creditors; the Missouri statute does not legislate
on the subject-of jurisdiction,but confers power on the court,
when the same _property is attached in several actions to determine all controversies which may arise between any of the
.paintijfs in relatioh to the property, priority,val'dity, good
faith and effect of the different attachments, and to dissolve
any attachment partially or wholly, or pos pone it to another,
or make such order in the premises as right and justice may
require. No court in Louisiana possesses any such power; nor is
any such discretion confided to any judicial tribunal in the State.
The facts show that the marshal was in possession of the
goods qua marshal; such possession was the possession of the
court which issued the writ by virtue of which the marshal
took possession.
The marshal was in possession virtute offlcii. In S'anderson
v. Baker, 3 Wilson, 309, it was decided by the Court of Cornmon Pleas, as long ago as 1172, that trespass vi et armis lies
against a sheriff for the act of his bailiff in taking the goods,
of A, instead of the goods of B, under a,§. fa. This principle
has been approved in the later cases. In Smart v. Button, 2
Nev. & Man. 426, the sheriffs officer arrested a defendant
without authority of law, but the sheriff was held liable for,
any act of his deputy colore offlqii. The same principle has
been followed in Massachusetts. Campbell v. Pheyps, 17 Mass.
246; Knowlton v. -artett, 1 Pick. 271. The same in substance is said in the case of Walden v. -Davison,15 Wend. 575.
The taking by a marshal of the United States, upon a writ
of attachment, on mesne process against one person, of the
goods of another, is a breach of the condition of his official
bond, for which his sureties are liable. This was recently
decided by this court in Lammon v. ffeusier, 111 U. S. 19.
See also Freeman v. Bowe, 24 How. 450; Kr'2pendorf v.
Hyde, 110 U. S. 276. If a writ of replevin could not reach the
property, how could a writ of attachment or a garnishment

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

proceeding under a writ of attachment issued by a state court
affect it?
The issue of the Sunday writs was not an unlawful act.
We never had a Sunday law in Louisiana until 1886, and that
law merely requires stores, shops, saloons and all licensed places
of business of a certain class to be closed. At no time was it
unlawful to make a contract on Sunday, nor is it unlawful
now, except in the prosecution of business in the prohibited
places. Prior to 1886, Sunday traffic was subject to the police
regulations of municipal authority. State v. Bott, 31 La. Ann.
663; M2Winden v. Silverstein, 36 La. Ann. 912, 916.
But the 0ode of Practice provides in article 207, "That no
citation can issue, no demand can be made, no _p'oceeding had,
nor suits instituted on Sundays, on the 4th of July, or the 8th
of Xanuary, or the 25th of December, 22d bf February or on
Good Friday; nor shall any arrest be made after sunset on
any individual within his domicile."
ThE-case stated finds that the writs of attachment were
obtair _d on Sunday; the issue of such writs by the clerk of
the cc irt was a mere ministerial act, and is not a judicial
proceeding.
We submit that there is no law in Louisiana which prohibits
the issue or the levy of a writ of attachment on Sunday. We
have no common law, and if we had, the common law did not
forbid any bat judicial acts on Sunday; all other prohibitions
are statutory. Swan9b v. Broomn, 3 Burrow, 1595; Pearce v.
Atwood, 13 Mass. 324, 347. , Our statute does not allow a
citation to issue, nor a demand to be made on Sunday, or
other dies non; nor can a suit be-instituted on Sunday, nor
can a judicial proceeding be had on that day.
But in a stiit instituted on Saturday, a writ of attachment
may be issued on Sunday by the clerk, because the isue of tie
writ is a mere ministerial act; and there is no lawA which
prevents the levy of a writ of attachment on Sunday.
The issue of the writ of attadhment by the clerk has been
held to be the performance of a mere ministerial duty. Purdee v. Cocke, 18 La. 482.485. So it is held that the receiving
of a verdict on Sunay is not a judicial proceeding. Hogh-

GUMBEL' v. PITKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

taling v. Osborn, 15 Johns. 119; Baxter v. People, 3 Gilman,
368. So the issue of a summons on Sunday by a justice of the
peace, was held to be a ministerial act. Smith v. JAling, 47
Mich. 614. So the taking of a recognizance on Sunday was
regarded as a ministerial act, and therefore valid. Johnson v.
_].eople, 31 11. 469, 473. So the Supreme Court of Massachusetts seemed to treat the issue of a writ of attachment, although
it was unnecessary to decide the point. Johnson v. Day,17'
Pick. 106, 109.
Mm.

JUSTicE MATTHEws

delivered the opinion of the court.

The grounds on which the Circuit Court proceeded in denying the relief prayed for by the intervenor, and which -have
been reiterated in argument at the bar, are, 1st, that no levy
.of the writ of attachment was in fact made by the sheriff,
because he did not and could not acquire actual possession
of the property sought to be seized then in the possession of
the marshal; it being essential, under the-laws of Louisiania, to
the validity of the levy of such a writ. that the officer should
thereby acquire actual and exclusive possession of the property
to be attached; and, 2d, that no levy by the sheriff under his
writ of attachment was effected by'the notice served upon the
marshal as garnishee, because the marshal, as an officer of
the Circuit Court of the United States, was not amenable to,
and could not be affected by, process from a state court.
It may be rnemaxked in the outset, that if the intervenor is
entitled to any relief, the mode in which he has sought it is
appropriate. On the motion to dismiss the writ of error (113
U. S. 545) it was decided that his right to intervene by petition in this action was justified by the laws of Louisiana and
by the decision of this court in Fpeernam v. Howe, 24 How."
450. In .Kippendorfv. H yde, 110 U. S.-276, 283, it was said:
"The grounds of this procedure are the duty of the court to
prevent its process from being abused to the injury of third
persons, and to piotect its officers and its own custody of
property in their possession so as to defend and preserve its
jurisdiction, for no one is allowed to question or disturb that

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

possession except by leave of the court. So the equitable
powers of courts of law over their own process, to prevent
abuses, oppression, and injustice, are inherent and equally
extensive and efficient, as is also their power to protect their
own jurisdiction and officers in the possession of property that
is in the custody of the law. Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334;
Hagan v. Zucas, 10 Pet. 400. And when, in the exercise of
that power, it becomes necessary to forbid to strangers to the
action the resort to the ordinary remedies of the law for the
restoration of property in that situation, as happens when
otherwise conflicts of jurisdiction must arise between courts of
the United States and of the several States, the very circumstance appears which gives the party a title to an equitable
remedy, because he is deprived of a plain . d adequate remedy
at law; and the question of citizenship, which might become
material as an element of jurisdiction in a court of the United
States when the proceeding is pending in it, is obviated by
treating the intervention of the stranger to the action in his
own interest as what Mr. -Justice Story. calls in Clarke v.
.fatt]ewsonr, 12 Pet. 164, 172, a dependent bill." In that case
it was further stated, speaking of contests between execution
-or attachment creditors in the Vederal courts on the*one hand
and strangers to the actions claiming title to the property on
the other, that "if the statutes of the State contain provisions
regulating trials of the right of property in such cases, it
might be most convenient to make them a part of the practice
of the court as contemplated by §§ 914, 915, 916 of the Revised
Statutes.' p. 287.
In the subsequent case of Covell v. Hfeyman, 111 U. S. 176,
it was decided that the principle that whenever property has
been seized by an officer of the court, by virtue of its process,
the property is.to be considered as in the custody of the court
and under its control for the time being, applies both to a
taking by a writ of attachment under a mesne process and to
a taking under a writ of execution. It was there also decided
that "property thus levied on by attachment or taken in
execution is brought by the writ within the scope of the jurisdiction of the court whose process it is, and as long as it

GUMBEL v. PITKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

remains in the possession of the officer it is in the custody of
the law. It is the bare fact of that possession under claim and
color of that authority, without respect to the ultimate right
to be asserted otherwise and elsewhere, as already sufficiently
explained, that furnishes to the officer complete immunity from
the process of every other jurisdiction that attempts to dispossess him." p. 184. So in _Lammbn v. Aeusier, 111 U. S. 17,
19. it was said: "When a marshal upon a writ of attachment
on mesne process takes property of a person not named in the
writ, the property is in his official custody and under the control of the court, whose officer he is, and whose writ he is
executing; and, according to the decisions of this court, the
rightful owner cannot maintain an action of replevin against
him, nor recover the property specifically in any way except
in the court from which the writ issued."
It thus .appears that the plaintiff in error came rightfully
-into the Circuit Court for whatever relief, either of a legal or
equitable nature, that court' was competent to give. It is
equally true that he must depend exclusively on the Circuit
Court for such relief as he can there obtain, for it is quite
clear that the Civil District Court acquired, no jurisdiction
,over the property under the writ of attachment held by the
sheriff, nor any jurisdiction over the person of the marshal as
garnishee, by virtue of the notice served upon him to answer
interrogatories as such. The sheriff acquired no such possession of the property as to bring it within the custody of the
state court, and the marshal was not amenable to the state
court as its custodian for property which he claimed to hold
officially under process from the Circuit Court. The Circuit.
Court alone had jurisdiction to inquire into and determine all
questions relating to the property, and the rights growing out
of its cusfody held by its own officer under color of its authority,
saving, of course, all rights of action against the marshal personally for his wrongful and illegal acts resulting in injury to
third persons, except such as involved the legal right to take
the property out of his possession.
As we have already seen, and as has been many times declared by this court, the equitable powers of the courts of the
VOL. cxxv'-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, sitting as courts of law, over their own process,
to'prevent abuse, oppression and injustice, are inherent, and as
extensive and efficient as may be required by the necessity for
their exercise, and may be invoked by strangers to the litigation as incident to the jurisdiction already vested, without regard to the citizenship of the complaining and intervening
party.. This is the equity invoked by the plaintiff in error,
which was denied to him by the Circuit Court.
It is certainly true, and must be conceded, as vas adjudged
in the court below, that Gumbel .acquired under his writ of
attachment no strict and technical legal standing as an attaching credifor with an actual levy on his debtor's property. There
was no such actual seizuire of the property by the sheriff as was.
necessary to constitute a levy at law. That seizure was pre-.

vented, and the attempted levy thus defeated, by the wrongful
and illegal act of the marshal.

That officer had taken posses-

sion of the goods on Sunday, under color of process" issued the
same day, illegal by the laws of the State, and- as such discontinued and abandoned by the parties. The possession thus
acquired was made use of for the benefit of the plaintiffs in
attachment in the Circuit Court to defeat the execution of the

process of the state court. It was illegal in the marshal to
have taken possession of the goods under the writs in his hands

issued on Sunday. It was his duty, when the sheriff appeared
with a lawful writ from the state court, to surrender possession
to-him.

His failure and refusal to do so was an actionable

injury in which the pr.esent plaintiff in error, in a suitable
action at law, would have been entitled to recover, both
against him and against the attaching creditors for whom
and at whose request he -was acting, the whole amount of
the lbss; measured by what the plaintiff would have made if
he had'seeured .the benefit of the priority to which he would
have been entitled by first
levy of his attachment upon the
property.
iistead of.resorting to such an action, the plaintiff
in error, appealed...to the Circuit Court for that equity which
that court €iias entitled to adninister by virtue of its duty to
redres§ injuries. occasioned'by the abuse of its process on the
part of- its. 6ffiters and suitors. Why should that equity not

GUMBEL v. PITKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

be administered in this proceeding? The court had before it
all the parties, together with the property which was the subject of contention. The remedy was plain, simple and effectual.
It could award to the intervenor the position in respect to tho
property and fund in court which, but for the injustice done
him by the conduct of its officer and suitors in the abuse of its
process, he would have acquired by a legal levy under his
attachment. Neither the marshal nor the creditors for whose
benefit he acted ought to be allowed to say that the intervenor
had been deprived of the substance of his rights, because by
their illegal and oppressive conduct he had been prevented
from clothing it with technical forms. It is a cardinal maxim
that no one shall be allowed in a court of justice to take advantage of his own wrong. No more flagrant instance of a violation of that fundamental principle can be conceived than that
which is furnished by the circumstances of the present case.
The very ground, and the sole ground, on which relief is
denied to the plaintiff in error is that he has been prevented
from asserting it legally by the violence and wrong of those
who now deny it.
This principle has especial application in cases of proceedings by attachment. "The existence of the proceeding by
attachment" (it is said in Drake on Attachment, § 272),
"could hardly fail to give rise to fraudulent attempts to obtain
preference, where the property of a debtor is insufficient to
satisfy all the attachments issued against him. When it transpires that there are circumstances justifying resort to this
remedy, the creditors of an individual usually press forward
eagerly in the race for precedence, sometimes to the neglect
of important forms in their proceedings, and sometimes without due regard to the rights of others. On such occasions,
too, notwithstanding the safeguards generally thrown arbund
the use of this process, and in violation of the sanctity of the
preliminary'oath, it has been found that men in collusion with
the debtor, or counting' on his absence for impunity, ha'Ve
attempted wrongfully to defeat the claims of honest creditors
by obtaining priority of attachment on false demands. Tbero
is, therefore, a necessity -.. apparent to the most superficial

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of .the Court.

observation -for some means by which all such attempts to
overreach and defraud, through the instrumentality of legal
process, may be summarily met and defeated. Hence provision has been made in the statutes of some States for this
exigency, and where such is not the case, the courts have
broken the fetters of artificial forms and rules, and attacked
the evil with commendable spirit and effect." Accordingly, it
has been held in New Hampshire, in the absence of a statute
authorizing an attaching creditor to impeach the good faith of
previous attachments, that on a suggestion that a prior attachment was prosecuted collusively between the plaintiff and
defendant for the purpose of defrauding creditors, the court
would permit a defence to be made by the creditors in the
name of the defendant, Buckman v. Buckman, 4 N. H. 319;
and that a subsequent attaching creditor might move to dismiss a prior attachment on the ground that there was no such
person as the plaintiff therein. fimball v. Wfellington, 20
:N. H. 489.
In Virginia it has been held that a junior attaching creditor
may come in and defend against a senior attachment by showing that the debt for which it issued had been paid. AoCluny
v. Jackson, 6 Grattan, 96. 'In mitk v. Gettinger, 3 Geo. 140,
it was decided upon general principles, and "without any -aid
from statutory provisions, that a judgment in an attachment
suit may be set aside in a court of law upon an issue, suggesting fraud and want of consideration in it, tendered by a junior
attaching creditor of the common defenduat. Ln Mssachusetts provision is made for appropriate relief in such cases by
statute. Lodge v. -Lodge,5 Mason, 407; Carter v. Gregory, 8
Pick. 164; Bairdv. Williams, 19 Pick. 381.; Swift v. Crocker,
21 Pick. 2411.
The case of Paradisev. Farmere'and Merchant' Bank, 5
La. Ann. 710, is an important adjudication, having a direct
bearing upon the point now under consideration. A suit in
chancery was instituted in Memphis, Tennessee, by ,stockholders of a bank there against the bank and its .president
and directors, in which a receiver was appointed, an, injunction
obtained, and an order for the delivery of the assets of the bank

GUMBEL v. PI[TKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

to the receiver served on the president, who, during an unsuccessful attempt to enforce the process of the court, obtained possession of the assets and ran off with them to New Orleans, where
they were attached in his hands by a creditor of the bank, and
were claimed in the attachment suit by the receiver appointed
by the court in Tennessee. The courts of Louisiana ordered
the attached property to be released from the process and
delivered to the receiver. The Supreme Court of the State, in
its opinion, said: "The property which thus stands before us
for adjudication thus appears to have been brought within the
jurisdiction of this court in disobedience and in violation of
the process of a court of a sistei State, and in fraudulent violation of the rights of property of its real owners. It is
proved that the process of the court of chancery and a writ
of injunction and an order directing the delivery of the assets
of the bank forthwith to the receiver appointed, were duly
served on Fowlkes, [the president,] as well as the directors of
the bank. The grounds on which it is contended the judgment of the District Court [ordering the property to be delivered to the receiver] is to be reversed are: 1, that a receiver
in chancery cannot maintain a suit without special authority
from the court which appoints him; 2, that the possession of
the. property attached not having been in the receiver, it is
liable to the process of attachment at the instance of a bona
JN. creditor. We will not inquire into the technical question whether :the authority- of the chancellor is necessary to
institute a suit at law; it is sufficient for us that property, in
relation to which an order of a court of a sister State of competent jurisdiction has been issued, has been fraudulently or
forcibly withdrawn from its jurisdiction by a party to the suit,
and that the injunction issued in this case by the chancellor is
still in force and binding upon the offending party. The
order of the court of chancery is a sufficient authority for the
intervenor [the receiver] to receive the assets of the bank;
and the delivery to him will be a good delivery binding upon
the bank, as well as in the furtherance of justice. We have
uniformly discountenanced all attempts, in whatever form they
may be made, of making our courts instruments for defeating

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the action of courts of other States on property within their
jurisdiction by means of clandestine or forcible removal to
this State. The only decree which we render in such cases is
that of immediate and pirompt restitution, or one preventing
any rights to be acquired by these attempts to defeat the ends
of justice. This is an answer to the question raised concerning the peculiar right of the creditor. The only right which
he in any event could reach would be subordinate to the injunction from the operation of which this property has been
attempted to be removed. Not only on general principles,
but on the cases cited by the learned judge who decided this
case, the claim of the plaintiff to subject this property to
attachment is without the shadow of right."
The case just cited was not so flagrant as the present. The
attaching creditor in that case was innocent of any participation in the wrong involved in the removal of the property
from the jurisdiction of the Tennessee court. -Here the attaching creditors are the very parties at whose instance and for
whose benefit the wrong upon the intervenor has been perpetrated. Upon general principles, therefore, and in the exercise of its equitable power as a court of law to prevent and
redress injustice committed upon a stranger by the abuse of
its process on the part of its officers and suitors, the Circuit
Court ought to have granted the relief to the intervenbr which
by its judgment it denied.
There is, however, another ground on which the same conclusion may safely rest. By § 915 of the Revised Statutes, the
Circuit Court is authorized, in favor of suitors in that court, to
administer the attachnent laws of the State in which the court
is held, and the exercise of this jurisdiction necessarily draws
to itself everything properly incidental, even though it may
bring into the court foi the adjudication of their rights parties
not otherwibe subject to its jurisdiction. So that, in AI'>fendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, 2S4, where the statute of Indiana
regulating the process of attachment provided that after the
institution of the suit, and before final judgment, any creditor
of the defendant might file and prove his claim with the
right to participate in the distribution of the proceeds of -the

GUMBEL v. PITKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

attached property, it was said that in an action rightly instituted in the Circuit Court in which. the property of the
common debtor was attached, all other creditors might appear
in pursuance of the state law and share in the distribution,
although citizens of the same State with the defendant, and
although the amounts due them were less than the jurisdictional sum of $500.
In the case of Bates v. Days, 17 Fed. Rep. 167, decided by
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Missouri, it was held, first by Judge Krekel, and affirmed
by the circuit judge, McCrary, on 6, motion for a rehearing,
that questions of priority between attaching creditors, some of
whom were plaintiffs in that court and some in the state court,
might be determined on proceedings for distribution of the
proceeds of sale of the attached property made by the marshal,
who had the actual custody by virtue of the first seizure, upon
the ground that § 915 of the Revised Statutes incorporated, as
a part of the practice of the courts of the United States for
that district, § 44[ of the Statutes of Missouri, which provided
that: "Where the same property is attached in several actions,
by different plaintiffs against the same defendant, the court
may settle and determine all controversies which may arise
between any of the plaintiffs in relation to the property, and
priority,. validity, good faith, and effect of the different attachments, and may dissolve any attachment, partially or wholly,
or postpone it to another, or make such order in the premises as right and justice may require," it being held in that
State that if the writs issue from different courts of -coordinate jurisdiction, such controversies shall be determined by
that court in which the first -writ of attachment was issued
and levied. In the case referred to, the first attachment was
issued out of the Circuit Court of the United States, the
marshal having possession' of the property by virtue of a
seizure under that writ. The writ of attachment iss-fed out
of the state court was returned by the sheriff, stating that he
had levied the same on the stock of- goods pf the defendant,
subject to the attachment of the plaintiff, in the United States
court, and that he notified the marshal of the attachment and

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

levy, and summoned him as garnishee. In deciding i'he case,
it was said by the district judge that: "The executive officers
of courts should understand that when writs issue from state
and federal courts against the same property, the officer first
obtaining possession, on being notified that a state court officer,
as in this case, has a writ against the same property, all reasonable facilities should be offered such officer to make a full return, and the officer holding the property should show in his
return whatever was done by such state court officer. Federal
and state courts are not foreign courts, or in hostility to each
other, in administering justice between litigants. The citizen
of the State in the federal court is as much in his own court
as in the courts of the State. The rights he has he cannot be
deprived of in a federal court. The citizen of another State
has the same claim to a debtor's property in the State of MNissouri as a resident, but no more."
The same principle is asserted by the Supreme Court of the
State of Missouri in the case of Pattrso v. Ste enson, 77
Missouri, 329, 333, as between cordinate state courts. It
was there said: "On principle and reason, the validity of successive levies by the same officers on the same property is a
recognition of the practical fact, that there may be, after a
taking into the custody of the law the property of the debtor,
an effectual imposition of another writ without an actual caption, or a taking away of the property, or an appropriation of
it for the time beifig, to the attaching creditor's claim. It is
held in such case that the second writ in the hands of the same
officer is executed by him sub modo, so ' it will be available to
hold the surplus after satisfying the previous attachment, or
the whole, if that (the first) attachment should be dissolved.
In such case no overt act on the part of the officer is necessary
to effect the second levy, but a return of it on the writ will be
sufficient. So, where the property is in the hands of a bailee,
the officer who placed it there may make another attachment,
without the necessity of an actual seizure, by making return
thereof, and giving notice to the bailee.' Drake on Attachment, § 269. In Tomlinson. v. Collins, 20 Conn. 364, it is
held in such case that the second attachment is valid even
without any notice to the bailee.

GUMBEL v. PITKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

"Evidently the making of a second levy by the same officer
is recognized because it does not disturb his custody of the
property. If the rule which prevents one officer from levying
on goods seized by another officer rests mainly on the prevention of conflict of jurisdiction and the interference of one
officei with the prior custodianship of another, then, on the
maxim, cessante ratione legis, cessat ipsa lex, I can see'no reason for the operation or recognition of the rule, where the
second levy does not produce such conflict or interference.
For it must be borne in mind that the other requirement of
the law, that the levying of an attachment is an actual seizure
of the property, is satisfied in the case of successive levies by
the same officer, by a constructive application of the succeeding writ 'to the surplus after satisfying the previous attachment.' Why, then, was not the act of the sheriff in the case
now under consideration, in taking the invoice of the goods in
connection with the constable, 'available to hold the surplus
after satisfying the previous attachment,' made by the constable? The constable had the requisite notice. It in n6wise
interfered with the prior custody. It produced no conflict,
and would lead to no confusion."
Upon this reasoning it is contended, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that he was entitled to the benefit of § 1942 of
the Revised Statutes of 1870 of Louisiana, which provides
that: "Whenever a conflict of privileges arises between creditors, all the suits and claims shall be transferred to the court
by whose mandate the property was first seized,, either on
mesne process or on execution, and the said court, shall proceed to class the privileges and mortgages according to their
rank and privilege, in a summary manner, after notifying the
parties interested."
There are difficulties in the literal application of such a
statutory provision, intended, of course, to regulate the practice between themselves of coiirdinate state courts, to cases
of conflicting rights arising between suitors in the federal
and state courts where the systems are independent. It is
impossible to transfer suits pending in the state courts into
the Circuit Courts of the United States, except as provided by

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

act of Congress for the removal of such causes. Nevertheless,
the substance of the provision may be applied to the practice
of the courts in attachment proceedings in such a way as
to promote and secure that comity which ought to prevail
between federal and state tribunals exercising concurrent
jurisdiction, and to administer justice in a conflict of rights
growing out of their independent action. Where, under a
writ of attachment, the marshal of the United States has first
seized property and taken it into custody, the exclusive jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. is established over it and over all
questions concerning it; but it ought not to follow that the
property is thereby withdrawn from the assertion and enforcement of claims against it by those who must necessarily pursue their remedy in the first instance in a state court. A
creditor residing in the same State with the defendant and,
therefore, required to institute proceedings in the state tribunal, ought to be enabled, by his writ of attachment, to
subject the property of the debtor in due course, and according to the order of priority, even though when the sheriff
proceeds to execute the -writ he finds that property in the possession of the marshal of the United States, and, therefore,
subject to the jurisdiction of the federal court. In that case
no rule of law or of convenience is violated if he is permitted,
by service of notice upon the marshal, to make a constructive
levy upon the property, subject to all prior liens, awd without
disturbing the marshal's possession. This, of course, would
iot have the effect of subjecting the marshal personally or
officially to answer as garnishee to the state court as custodian of the property for the purposes of its jurisdiction, but
wou(l entitle the a' tAhino creditor in the state court to
acquire a riglit in the p'operty and to appear in the proceeding in the Circuit Court to enforce it on a motion to distribute
the proceeds of the sale of the attached property in its custody.
This is the recognized practice in those States where successive
attachments are authorized to be served by the same olficer,
acting as the executive of different courts, or by different
officer- each acting indencndently of the other. There seems
to be no reason why a similar practice should not be adopted

GUMBEL v. PITKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

as between federal and state tribunals acting concurrently in
the administration of the same laws. Indeed, every consideration of justice and convenience might be adduced to support
it. And such a practice in the courts of the United States,
when authorized by law in the administration of attachment
proceedings as between state courts, seems to us to be justified as a reasonable implication from § 915 of the Revised
Statutes. That section expressly secures to plaintiffs in common law causes in- circuit and district courts of the United
States similar remedies by attachment against the property of
the defendant to those provided by laws of the State in which
such court is held for the courts thereof, and authorizes the
courts of the United States, by general rules, to adopt from
time to time such state laws as may be in force in the States
where they are held in relation to the same subject. The
remedies here spoken of, of course, are to b6 understood as
they are defined in the state laws, and subject to the same
conditions and limitations. The authority thus conferred is
ample to authorize and sanction the practice of permitting
the constructive levy by attaching creditors under state process upon the property in possession of the marshal and their
intervention in proceedings in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the same district where, as between state courts of
concirrcit jurisdiction, a similar method of acquiring and
adjusting conflicting rights is prescribed.
Uder such a practice, if in the present case the marshal
had acquired and held possession of the attached goods, by
virtue of a valid writ first levied, the plaintiff in error, by
making his constructive levy, subject to the prior right and
possession of the marshal, by giving him the appropriate
notice of his claim to hold him as a garnishee in possession of
the property for his benefit as to any surplus that might
remain after payment of prior claims, would have thereby
acquired the right, after establishing his clahn by judgment in
the state court and presenting proper proof thereof, to appear
in the Circuit Court as an intervenor and secure his right to
share in the proceeds of the sale of the attached property in
his proper order.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

But the case, as actually presented upon the circumstances
disclosed in this record, is much stronger for such an intervention. When the sheriff of the Civil District Court undertook
to levy upon the goods in question, and served the marshal
with notice as garnishee holding actual possession of the proper'y, the latter was in fact, as we have already seen, in possession illegally under a writ, which protected his official
possession only so far as to prevent the property from being
forcibly withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
by judicial process, that court having acquired jurisdiction, by
virtue of the seizure under color of its authority, to decide all
questions concerning it. That writ, though illegally issued and
levied, was not void on its face. In a certain sense, therefore,
the property was in custodia legis, and not subject to a levy
under process which would have the effect of taking it out of
his possession and control. But when, in the exercise of jurisdiction by the Circuit Court in the determination of the question raised by the' petition of intervention, the nature of the
marshal's title and possession came to be inquired into, it was
made apparent that he held the property illegally as a tre passer, and in that forum could be treated as holding it in a
private and not an official capacity. It was subject, therefore,
in the view of that court, to the consequences of the notice
served upon the marshal as garnishee. It was held by the
marshal as if it had been a surplus arising from the sale of the
property of a defendant on execution, which, as is well established, may be attached in his hands., Drake on Attachment,

§251:

The case, therefore, stands thus: For the reasons growing
out of the peculiar relation between Federal and state courts
exercising cordinate jurisdiction over the same territory, the
Circuit Court acquired the exclusive jurisdiction to dispose of
the property brought into its custody under color of its authority, although by illegal means, and to decide all questions of
conflicting right thereto; the plaintiff in error having pursued
his remedy by action against his debtor in the state court, to
which alone by reason of citizenship he could resort, attempted
the levy of his writ of attachment upon the goods in the pos-

DUNDEE MORTGAGE CO. v. HUGHES.
Syllabus.

session of the marshal; not being allowed to withdraw from
the marshal the actual possession of the property sought to be
attached, he served upon the marshal notice of his writ as garnishee; not being able by this process to subject the marshal
to answer personally to the state court, he made himself a
party to the proceedings in the Circuit Court by its leave, and
proceeded in that tribunal against its officer and the creditors
for whom he had acted; on a regular trial it appeared as a
fact that at the time of the notice the marshal was in possession of the property wrongfully as an officer,, and therefore
chargeable as an individual. It was competent for the Circuit
Court, and having the power it was its duty, to hold the marshal liable as garnishee, and having in its custody the fund
arising from the sale of the property, and all the parties inter-,
ested in it before it, that court was bound to do complete
justice between all the parties on the footing of these rights,
and give to the plaintiff in error the priority over all other
creditors; to which, by virtue of his proceedings, and as prayed
for in his petition of intervention, he was entitled.
On these grounds, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions, upon
the facts found in the Circuit Court, to award judgment
in favor qf the intervenor, Gumbde, in conformity with
this opinion.

DUNDEE MORTGAGE AND TRUST TNVESTMENT
COMPANY v. HUGHES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Argued December 2, 1887. -Decided

January9, 1888.

Rulings of a Circuit Court at the trial of an aution at law without a jury
when there had been no waiver of a jury by stipulation in writing
signed by the parties or their attorneys, and filed with the clerk, as required by § 649 Rev. Stat., are not reviewable here.
Baogher v. Insurdmce Co., 103 U. S. 90, distinguished from this case.

