PORTER v. BEARD.
Counsel for Parties.

did not exercise ordinary care, when he discovered the water,
gaining on his pumps in Lake Erie, because hd did not require
thq tug which was towing him to take him back to the Detroit
River, and it was in regard to this. claim of the defendant that
the court said what is thus specially objected to. We think
the instruction was proper in reference to the subject to which
it related.
We do not consider it necessary to discuss particularly any
of the other positions taken! by the defendant. They have all
of them been considered, we see no error in the record, and
The ji&dgmnt of the Circuit 0ourt is affirmed.

PORTER v. BEARD.
ERROR. TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THEDISTRICT OF 3UASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January 19, 1888. - Decided January 30,1888.

Merchandise was delivered to its importer, after he had paid the duties on
it as first liquidated or estimated on its entry.* Subsequehtly, the collector recalled the invoice, the local appraiser increased the valuation,
there was a reappraisement by the general appraiser and a merchant
appraiser, and a new liquidation, which increased the amount of duties,
The Importer paid that amount under protest, and appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, (who affirmed the action of the collector,) and then
brought a suit against the collector to recover the amount: Held, that
under § 3011 of the Revised Statutes, the action would not lie, because
the payment was not made to obtain possession of the merchandise.

Tmis was an action agaifist a collector to recover an alleged
excess of duties. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
colirt.
XrM.MCaurl

Levi TFoodbury for plaintiffs in error.

Ar. Solicitor GeneraZ for-defendant in error.

430

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE'BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of 'Massachusetts, by the members of tho copartnership firm of Cushing, Porter & Cades,
against Alanson W. Beard, collector of customs, to recover the
sum of $694.05, as an alleged excess of duties, paid under
protest, on merchandise imported by that firm into the port
of Boston. The case was tried before the court on the written
waiver of a jury. There was an agreed statement of facts in
the case, but either party had the right to introdude further
evidence. There are no separate findings of fact and of conclusions of law, nor is there any general finding for either
party; but there is accompanying the record an opinion of the
court, which is reported in 15 Fed. Rep. 380, which concludes
by directing a judgment for the defendant, and such judgment
was accordingly entered, and to review it the plaintiffs have
brought a writ of error.
There is a bill of exceptions made by the plaintiffs, which
states that all of the facts material to the bill of exceptions are
contained in the statement of agreed facts, which is thereto
attached and made a part of the exceptions; that, upon the
trial of the cause, the counsel for the defendant asked the
court to rule, that, as it appeared that 25 of the packages of
merchandise in question had been delivered to the plaintiffs by
the defendant before the payment of the duties thereon sued
for, the plaintiffs had not shown themselves entitled as a
matter of law, to maintain this action against the defendant,
so far as those packages were concerned, because such payment
of duties, although made under protest, was voluntary, and
was not made to obtain possession of the goods; that the court
adjudged that, as a matter of law, when the plaintiffs paid the
additional duties demanded by the collector upon the 25 packages, the defendant had no means of compelling the payment,
and that, as the payment was voluntary, the plaintiffs could
not recover the money; that the plaintiffs excepted to each of
those rulings; that the court thereupon refused to consider
further the agreed facts and the testimony which had been

PORTER v. BEARD.
Opinion of the Court.

adduced before it as to the subject matter of the protest in
relation to those packages; and that the plaintiffs excepted to,
such refusal.
It appears, by the agreed statement of facts, that all of the
goods in question were delivered to the plaintiffs by March 25,
1879, on their payment of the duties on the goods as first
liquidated or'estimated, on the entries of the 'goods. Subsequently, the invoices were recalled by the collector, and the
local appraiser reported an'increased valuation of the goods.
There was a reappraisement of them by the general appraiser
and a merchant appraiser, and new liquidations, which increased the duties.by the sum of $694.05. *The plaintiffs paid
this amount to the .collector, and duly' filed protests, and
appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed the
.action of the collector, and then this suit was brought.
The error assigned by the plaintiffs is, that the Circuit Court
erred in deciding that the payment of the increased duties,
after due protest and appeal, and the decision of the Secretary
of the Treasury, as to the 25 packages, was a voluntary payment and-was. a bar to the plaintiffs' right to recover.
It is provided by § 3011 of the Revised Statutes, that "any
person who shali have made payment under protest and in
order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for him,
to any collector, or person acting as collector, of any money
as duties, when such amount of duties Was not, or was not
wholly, authorized by law, may maintain an action in the.
nature of an action at law, which shall be triable by jury, to
ascertain the validity of such demand and payment of duties,
and to recover back any excess so paid." it is apparent that,
under this section, although a person may have paid duties
under protest, he is not entitled to maintain an action to recover
back the duties, unless he also paid them in order to obtain
possession of the merchandise.
It is found-as a fact, in this case, that the 25 packages upon
which the increased duties of $694.05 were paid were delivered
to the plaintiffs by the defendant on the payment of the
duties first liquidated or estimated, .and before the payment of
such increased duties.. The language of the agreed statement

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

of facts and of, the bill of exceptions, in regard to the 25
package.s, is, throughout, that they were "delivered" to the
plaintiffs. This necessarily means that they passed into the
possession of the plaintiffs; that, until the first liquidated or
estimated duties were paid, the merchandise was in the posgession of the United States; that the plaintiffs paid such
duties in order to obtain possession of the merchandise; that
it was in their possession when they paid the $694.05; and
that, therefore, they did not pay the latter amount in order to
obtain possession of the goods.
The plaintiffs contend, that, under the statute, the lien of
the United States on the goods for the amount of the indreased duties upon them remained, although the goods had
passed into the physical possession of the plaintiffs; and that
the payment by the plaintiffs of the increased amount of
duties was made in order to free the goods from such lien, aiad
was, therefore, a payment made, within the meaning of § 3011,
to obtain possession of the goods. But we are unable to adopt
"this view.
By § 2869 of the Revised Statutes it is provided, that, when
an entry of goods is made, the collector shall estimate the
amount of the duties on them, ind that, when such amount is
paid or secured to be paid, a permit may be granted to land
the goods. Provision is also made,. that the goods shall be
landed under the superintendence of inspectors, and in accordance with the permits. -Section 2888 provides, that the officer
charged with the deliveries shall return to the-collector copies
of his accounts of entries of deliveries, which shall comprise
"all deliveries made pursuant to permits, and all packages or
merchandise sent to the public stores." This necessarily implie§
that deliveries are to be made pursuant to permits, to persons
who have paid the first liquidated or estimated duties on
entries,' as contradistinguished from sending other goods to
the public stores. These deliveries are sufficient to put the
importer in possession of the merchandise, within the meaning
-of § 3011, without reference to any lien of the United States
upon, he goods, or to any right to fgllow and reclaim them,
in case of an insufficient payment of duties, to be liquidated
or ascertained afterwards.

PORTER v. BEARD.
Opinion of the Court.

The provisions of § 3011 are to be strictly followed, because,
as we held in Arson v. .Mturphy, 109 U. S. 238, an. action to

reQpver duties paid under protest is now based entirely on a
statutory liability, which is regulated as to all its incidents by
express statutory provisions. Among such regilations is the
one, that the-payment of the duties shall have~een made not
only under protest but also in order to obtain possession of
the imported merchandise, in order to authorize the action to
recover back the duties.
In addition, this case seems to us to be governed by the
decision in United State8 v. &lesinger, 120 U. S. 109. In
that case, the Circuit Court had, under § 3011, held that there
could be no suit against a collector to recover back an excess
of duties paid -upon merchandise imported, unless the payment, in addition to being made under protest, was made "in
order to .obtain possession," of the merchandise. The importers had paid the estimated amount of duties and had obtained
possession of the goods, and the suit was brought by the
United States against them to recover the difference between
the amount so paid and a larger amount, at which the collector .had subsequently liquidated the duties. The Circuit
Court bad held, that, under those circumstances, the importers
could not, in case they had paid such difference, recover it
back, and'that, therefore, they could obtain the benefit of the
exemption from the duties sued for, which were in fact illegally imposed, only by a defence in the suit brought by the
United States to recover them. This court concurred in that
view, and its decision was placed expressly on that ground.
The judgment of the Cirouit Court is qfvned.
VOL. cxxiv-28

