OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

perfect the legal titles. The only question is, whether such a
partition was made, and upon that the decision of the state
court is final, and not subject to review. It "drew in question
no act of Congress, nor any authority exercised under the Constitution or laws of. the United States, and therefore the decision of the state court could not be opposed either to the laws
or to any authority exercised under the laws of the United
States." This was said in Ye'nnedy v. Runt, 7 How. 586, 593,
in reference to the construction which had been given to a
Spanish title by a state court, and is equally applicable here.
It follows that
-Temotion to dismiss must be granted,and it is so ordered.

THORNTON v. SCHREIBER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVAIA.
Argued January 19, 20, 1888.- Decided February 13,1888.

An employ6 of a business house, who, having a principal place in the establishment, is entrusted by his employers under their direction and on their
behalf with the custody and possession, but in a building occupied by
them and subject to their control, of printed copies of a copyrighted
photograph, printed in violation of the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 4965, has
not such possession of them as will entitle the proprietor of the copyright to proceed against him for a forfeiture of one dollar for every sheet
under that section.
The words "found in his possession" in § 4965 of the Revised Statutes do
not relate to the finding of the jury that the articles in question were in'
the defendant's possession, but require that there should be a time before
the cause of action accrues, at which they are found in his possession.
Whether the provision in Rev. Stat. § 4965 that one-half of the profit shall
go" to the propeietor, and the other half to the use of the United States"
does not relate solely to the " case of a painting, statue, or statuary,"
quccre.

TrrE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

THORNTON v. SCHREIBER.
Opinion of the Court.

-kr.FrankP. Pritchardfor plaintiff in error.
G. Johmnon filed a brief for same.

"M?. John.

.M. -A. Sidney Bidde for defendants in error. -Mr.H. P.
-Brown, MXr. J.1R. Paul and kr. J. -. Valentine were, with
him on the brief.
MR.JusTiE MirLE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a qui tarA action brought by the defendants in error,
constituting a partnership in the name of Schreiber & Sons,
against Thornton, the plaintiff in error, under § 4965 of the
Revised Statutes. This is found in c. 3, Tit. LX, which has
relation to-copyrights. -As we have heretofo re decided in the
case of Bur Qw Giles Lithographie Co. v. Sa'ony, 111 13. S.
53, photographs are included, under certain circumstances,
among the things which may be copyrighted.
The plaintiffs in this action allege themselves to be the
owners of a valid copyright of a photograph, entitled "The
Mother Elephant 'Hebe' and her Baby 'Americus,"' and that
the defendant, Thornton, was liable to them under the above
section for an infringement of their exclusive right in such
photograph. The declaration consisted originally of four
counts, but the plaintiffs afterwards obtained leave to amend
it by striking out the third and fourth. Of the two counts
which remained, the first was for copying and printing said
photograph, with the charge that 15,000 sheets of the same
were found in the defendant's possession, printed and copied
by him, and claiming the sum of $15,000 as forfeited to plaintiffs and to the United States under said section. The second
*count alleged that the defendant published said photograph,
and that 15,000 sheets of the same were found in his possession.
SEc. 4965, on which this action is founded, reads as follows:
"If any person, after the recording of the title of any map,
chart, musical composition, print, cut, engra.ving, or photograph, or chromo, or of the description of any painting,
drawing, statue, statuary, or model or design intended to be
perfected and executed as a work of the fine arts, as provided

'614

" OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

by this chapter, shall, within the term limited, and without
the consent of the proprietor of the copyright first obtained
in writing, signed in presence of two or more witnesses, engrave, etch, work, copy, print, publish, or import, either in
whole or in part, or by varying the main design with intent
to evade the law, or, knowing the same to be so printed, published, or imported, shall sell or expose to sale any copy of
such map or other article, as aforesaid, he shall forfeit to the
.proprietor all the plates on which the same shall be copied,
and every sheet .thereof, either copied or printed, and shall
further forfeit one dollar for every sheet of the same found in
his possession, either printing, printed, copied, published, imported, or exposed for sale; and in case of a painting, statue,
or statuary, he shall forfeit ten dollars for every copy of the
same in his possession, or by him sold or exposed to sale;
one-half thereof to the proprietor and, the other half to the
use of the United States."
•It will be observed that this section gives no right of action
to recover damages, merely as such, by the owner of the photograph, but limits the remedy to the forfeiture of the plates
on which the infringing article is copied, "and eyery sheet,
thereof, either copied or printed," and to the further forfeiture
of "one dollar for every sheet of the same found in his possession, either printing, printed, copied, published, imported, or
exposed for sale." In case of "a painting, statue, or statuary,"
there is to be a forfeiture of ten- dollars for every copy found.
in the defendant's possession, or by him sold or exposed for
sale.
In § 4964, immediately preceding the one under bonsideration, it is declared, that every person who shall, without the
consent of the proprietor of-a copyrighted book, print, publish,
import, sell, or expose for sale kny copy of such book shall not
only forfeit every copy thereof to such proprietor, but shall
also, forfeit and pay such damages as may be recovered in a
civil action by such proprietor. And so in § 4966, which immediately follows the one under consideration, it is declared
that "any person publicly performing 'br representing any
dramatic comnosition for which a copyright has been obtained,

,THORNTON v. SCHREIBER.
Opinion. of the Court.

without the consent of the proprietor thereof, or his heirs or'
assigns, shall be liable for damages therefor, such damages in
all cases *tobe assessed .at such sum, not less than one hundred
dollars for-the first, and fifty dollars for every subsequent performance, as to the court shall appear to be just."
It will thus be seen that while this chapter provides a remedy by a civil action on behalf of the owner of ihe copyright
of a book or dramatic composition which has been violated, it
makes no such provision in favor of a copyright of "any map,
chart, musical composition, print, cut, engraving, or -photograph, or chromo, or of the description of any painting, drawing, statue, statuary, or model, &c.," except so far as it forfeits the plates on which they are copied, and the sheets, either
copied or printed, and one dollar for every sheet found in the
possession of the defendant. Section 4967 also allows an action for danages by the author or proprietor of any mamuscript published without his consent.
As the action in the present case is brought by plaintiffs below, who sued as well for the United States as for themselves,
finder the idea that the government was entitled to one moiety
of the penalty recovered, an*examination of the statute presents a question at the outset as to whether the United States

has any interest in the only penalty sought to be recovered,
namely, that of dn6-dollar for each sheet of the photographs
found'in the possession of the defendant. Looking critically at
the language of the statute the question is suggested whether
the one-half of the amount recovered which is to go to the
United States extends beyond the case of "a painting, statue,
or statuary."
It will be observed that in the beginning of the penalty
denounced in this section it is said that the defendant "shall
forfeit to the proprietor [meaning the proprietor of the copyIPight] all the plates on which the same shall be copied, and
every sheet thereof) either copied or printed, and shall further
forfeit one dollar for every sheet of the same found in his possession, either printing, printed, copied, published, imported,
or exposed for sale," and recurring, after a semicolon, to another branch of the subject, it is said that 0 in case of a paint-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ing, statue, or statuary, he shall forfeit ten dollars for every
copy of the same in his possession, or by him sold or exposed
for sale; one-half thereof to the proprietor and the other half
to the use of the United States."
With regard to the copyrighted articles mentioned in the
section under consideration, it would eem that the first penalty is a forfeiture of them to the proprieo, and afterwards,
when other copyrighted articles, enumerated as "a painting,
statue, or statuary," where the amount forfeited is different,
it provides that one-half of the forfeiture shall be to the proprietor and the other half to the use of the United States.
This point, however, was not raised by either counsel in the
argument, and as we are of opinion that the copies for which
judgment was recovered in this case against the defendant
were not found in his possession, within the meaning of the
statute, it is unnecessary to decide it here.
The suit was brought originally in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. It
was there tried before a jury, and a verdict rendered in favor
of the plaintiffs for a forfeiture of one dollar for each of the
copies found in defendant's possession, amounting to $14,800,
for which judgment was entered in that court. A bill of exceptions, taken at that trial, is found in the record. A writ of,
error took the case to the Circuit Court for that district,
which, on the case as made in the District Court, affirmed its
decision. To this latter judgment the present writ of error is
directed.
The assignment of errors questions the validity of the copyright, both as regards the subject matter of the photograph,
and as regards the evidences of proper proceedings with the
librarian to make the copyright effective. There are also
other errors assigned, which it mighi be interesting to examine, but which we do not think necessary to a decision of the
case as it is now before us.
The judge in the trial in the court below charged the jury
as follows:
"The court instructs you that under the evidence if you
believe it, and the court sees nothing that would justify disbe-

THORNTON v. SCHREIBER.Opinion of the Court.

lief, the plaintiff is entitled to recoyer and to have damages
assessed at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) for every sheet cf
that copied photograph found in his tdefendant's] possession;
and every sheet under his co.atrol at the time must be treated
as in his possession, notwithstanding the interest his employers
may have had in it."
"A large number of the copies, according to the testimony,
were upon a shelf."
"And he [the defendant] obtained these copies for the purpose of labels. They were found in the store where he was
and under his charge."
"Now, I repeat what I have said, that every sheet under his
control (then under his control) - notwithstanding the interest
that the firm of Sharpless & Sons may have had in them every -sheet thus subject to his control must beregarded, for
the purposes of this suit, as in his possession, and for every
sheet thus found in his possession, if you find for the plaintiff,
and I see nothing that would justify you in not so finding."
This left nothing for the jury to consider, but whether they
would believe the testimony; if they did, it was a peremptory
instruction to them to, find a verdict against defendant of one
dollar for every sheet found in the store of Sharpless & Sons.
There is no contradiction in the testimony on the subject of
the relation of the defendant, Thornton, to the possession of
these 15,000 sheets of the photographs. Sharpless & Sons
were a partnership in the city of Philadelphia, and large wholesale dealers in dry goods. Mr. Thornton was, according to his
own testimony and that of Mr. Sharpless, employed by them
somewhat in the character of a business manager, but his main
business was,. however, the purchasing of goods whic4 were
afterwards sold by that firm. Their place of business was a
three or four story building, in which they had large quantities of textile fabrics stowed away for sale, and it was in the
second or third story of this building that the sheets were
found which are the subject of this suit. They were among
other goods, and were to be used by pasting them upon parcels of dry goods, %whichwas also often done at the dyers
before the goods were brought to the business house for sale.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of Lhe Court.

That these copies were the property of Sharpless & Sons can
admit of no doubt; that they were in their building, subject
to their control and use, in the same manner as any of the
other goods that they had there, is also clear, as well as the
fact that the plaintiffs in this case so understood it.
It appears from the evidence of Francis Schreiber, who was
not, however, a member of the plaintiffs' firm, that he went,
in company with his brother Henry, to the place of business
of Sharpless & Sons, and sought an interview with Mr. Sharpless. In the course of the conversation which ensued he asked
Mr. Sharpless where he got the pictures from, and he said "his
man who had charge had got it at Queen's," by his man evidently meaning Thornton, the defendant. Then after some
conversation about the injury done the proprietors of the picture, Mr. Sharpless said that he did not intend to do anything
wrong; whereupon witness then asked himwhether he had any
of them, to which the reply was, yes, he had a great many of
them upstairs. The witness asked him wh6ther they could
have them, and Sharpless said, yes, they could have'the copies.
This .language is inconsistent with aiy other idea than that
Mr. Sharpless considered the matter entirely under his control.
This conversation with AMr. Sharpless occurred on the 8th
day of May, in their place of business, at the corner of Eighth
and Chestnut streets; it was in the second story of the building, and Henry Schreiber, a brother of the witness, was also
present.
In regard to this same conversation the witness, Francis
Schreiber, was asked.: "How came you to ask r. Sharpless
if he would surrender any of the pictures?" His answer was:
"I wanted to know if he had any.

.

.

.

That was my

object in going there."
Henry Schreiber, one of'the plaintiffs, was also sworn, and
stated that he was present upon the Saturday morning when
the conversation: occurred with Mr. Sharpless as to which his
brother Francis testified; that he had been there a few days
before, upon which occasion he saw Mr. Thornton, who was
employed there to the best of his knowledge. He testified
that Thornton showed him a picture; that he saw the place

THORNTON v. SCHREIBER.
Opinion of the Court.

from which it was taken, i shelf, and that there were others,
quite a package of them, on the shelf. He further testified
that in the conversation on Saturday, 11r. Sharpless said:
"IMr.Thornton has the sole charge 'of. that; he gets up the
labels, and gets everything that he thinks will be appropriate,"
or something-to that effect, and that Mr. Sharpless also said
that Thornton had shown him this picture before it was used,
and he (Sharpless) told him to go ahead., He also states that
MAr. Sharpless said that they had a lot upstairs, and that he
(the witness) could have them all.
fr. Thornton himself testified that he got up this plate, and
ordered 15,000 copies to be made; that these copies were delivered to Sharpless & Sons; that the tickets were often put on
the goods at the dyeing establishment, received afterwards by
Sharpless & Sons, and sold to other parties. After some further testimony as to the details of this transaction, Mr. Thornton was asked: "Tell us what your business was then at that
store of Sharpless & Sons." He replied: "I was employed
there as the superintendent of the wholesale domestic department; I have' the purchasing of all the goods, the maling of
the price, and seeing that they are sold." He testified in substance that these prints or copies were paid for by Sharpless &
Sons; that he never paid out any money, but that they were
paid for as other goods were by that firm in the course of
business; that they were contracted for by him and paid for
by Sharpless & Sons when the bill was sent to them.
The attempt was made to establish the fact that "Thornton
had the possession or control of these prints by showing that
he was the man who first conceived the idea of getting up and
using them in the business of Sharpless & Sons; that he 'did
in effect order the photograph to be made, and only showed it
to Mr. Sharpless after this was done. Thornton, however,
states that before it was used, and a month before the time
the prints were found at the store by the plaintiffs, Mr.
Sharpless had known about the photograph aiid copy; that he"
approved it, and that,the bills were paid by his firm.
.We do not see -how Mr. Thornton, merely as an employ6,,
although he may have had a principal place in that establish-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, could be said to have had the possession of these prints
when they were found by the plaintiffs in the store of Sharpless & Sons. In any other light that it can be viewed, thai
firm would be held to be in possession. An action of replevin
could have been sustained against theni for the possession of
these goods, or an action of trover, if they had been the property -of plaintiffs, on account of the possession of them by
-Sharpless & Sons. Sharpless & Sons could have done what
they pleased.with them;* they could have ordered them
thrown out and burned; they could have given them up, and
they did offer to give them up, to plaintiffs. It was Sharpless
himself who made this offer, and the plaintiffs obviously understood that Sharpless was the man with whom they were
*dealing all this time. Their first visits were to hiig; they
talked the matter over with him; they recognized him as having control of the plates, of the prints, of the entire transaction; and it is impossible, to conceive that Mr. Thornton had
any other control over those sheets than he had over any piece
of dry goods -1hthe building. What he did during all the time
which this transaction occurred was as an employ6 of Sharp.in
less & Sons; and any other clerk, porter, or salesman in that
establishment, who handled these articles, or who had access
to them and could use them upon packages of goods, had as
much possession of them as Mr. Thornton, and any such person could have been sued and a recovery had against him as
lawfully as against Thornton, so far as the matter of possession
is concerned. What right of action might have been maintained against Thornton for actively copying, printing, selling,
or exposing these prints for sale, is not now in questions the
recovery here is based upon the fact of their being found in
his possession.
COunsel for defendants in error, Schreiber &'Sons, insist
that the words "found in his possession" are to be construed
as referring to the finding of the jury; that the expression
means simply that where the sheets are ascertained by the
finding of the jury to have been at any time in the possession
of the, person who committed the wrongful act, such person
shall forfeit one dollar for each sheet so ascertained to have

UNITED STATES v. JUNG AH LUNG.
Syllabus.

been in his possession. .We, however, think that the word
"found" means that there must be a time before the cause .of
action accrues at which they are found in the possession of the
defendant. If, howev6r, plaintiffs' view of the subject were
tenable, the fact still remains that the only possession .r.
Thornton evdr had of these prints was the possession of Shaxpless & Sons, holding them merely as their employ6, subject
always to their order and control, and never with any claim
of right in him to control them except in their s.eryice..
The instructions of the court to the jury, therefore, on this
subject, were erroneous, and the testimony did not justify the
charge. For this reason
The judgment of the Circut Court is Teveried, and the case
remand d with imtsrution to set aside the verdiot, and
for further_proeedingsin accordame with this opinion.

UNITED. STATES v. JU-N'G AH LU'NG.
APPE'AL FROM THE CIMOUrT COUN T OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January9,1888.-Decided February 13, 1888.

A Chinese laborer, who resided in the United States on November 17th, 1880,
continued to reside there till October 24th, 1193, when he left San Francisco for China, taking with him a certificawe of identification issued to
him by the collector of that port, in the form required by the 4th section
of the act of Mlay 6, 1882, c. 126, 22 Stat. 58, which was stolen from
him in China, and remained outstanding and uncancelled.
Returning
from China to San Francisco by a vessel, he was not allowed by the
collector to land, for want of the certificate, and was detained in custody
in the port, by the master of the vessel, by direction of the customs
authorities. On a writ of habeas corpus, issued by the District Court of
the United States, it appeared that he corresponded, in all respects, with
the description contained in the registration books of the custom-house
of the Plerson to whom the certificate was issued, He was discharged
from custody, and the order of discharge was affirmed by the Circuit
Court.
On appeal to this court, by the United States, Held:

