OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.'
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES ex rel. McLEAN v. VILAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME' COURT

OF

THE DISTRICT OF

COLfIBIA,.

Argued November 21, 22, 1887.-Decided January 9, 1888.

Upon the statutes of the United States which are considered at length in
the opinion of the court, Held: That no obligation rests upon the Postmaster General to readjust the salaries of postmasters oftener than
once in tvo years; that such readjustment, when it t.ikes place, establishes the amount of the salary prospectively for two years; but that a
discretion rests with the Postmaster General to make a more frequent
readjustment, when cases of hardship seem to require it.
PETITION FOR M Aff D
US. Petition dismissed. The petitioner
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.

2fr. Bamuel F. -Phillipqfor the petitioner. M~r. H. S1 ,alding was with him on the brief.
Mr. Assistant Attovey GeneraZ Howard, and Xr. Assistant Attorney General Bryant opposing.

it.

Attorney Gen-

eral was with them on the brief.
MM. JUSTICE

MILLE.E

delivered the opinion of the court.

'This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia.
In the case of- United States v. .McLean, 95 U. S. 750, will
be found the report of the decision of this court in an action
instituted by the present plaintiff in error against the United
- States. The appeal was taken from a judgment of the Court
of Claims in favor of McLean for the sum of $569.50, for compensation as deputy postmaster at Florence, Kansas, from
April 14, 1871, to July 1, 1872, which was rendered on the
ground that he was entitled to a readjustment of his salary by
.*the Postmaster General for the period between those dates,
and that if such readjustment had been made his salary would

McLEAN v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

have been increased by the amount for which the court rentdered-judgment in his fayor."
This court, however, held on the appeal that -the Court of
Claims could not perform the duty of readjusting .the -sakry
under the acts which conferred that power on the Postmaster General, and that there was no legal liability agaist.
the United States for the amount claimed by him until that
officer had readjusted the salary in accordance 4th those acts
of Congr6ss. In its opinion the court suggested that if the
executive officer failed to do his duty in that respect h might
be constrained by a mandamus to perform it.
Acting upon this suggestion, and under the act of Congress
of March 3, 1883, which authorized and directed the Postmaster General, in proper cases, to make readjustments of
salaries which should act retrospectively, M r. McLean made
a demand upon that officer- indeed, he made two demands,
one upon Postmaster General Gresham, and the other upon
Postmaster General Vilas.- for such a readjustment. Both of
these officers declining to comply with his demand, he, on the
4th day o. August, 1886, commenced the present suit in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by filing therein
his petition for a writ of mandamus.
This petition alleges that McLean served as a postmaster of
the fifth class at Florence, Kansas, from or prior to April 14,
1871, to June 30, 1872, and, made full returns of the business:
and receipts of his office on the last day of each quarter to th6
officer designated by law to receive such returns; that upon
the returns made on the 30th of June, 1871, he was allowed
and paid a salary of $1.48, and that if paid in commissions
upon said returns, under the act of 1854, he.would have received $89.12. ' He further declares that upon all the returns
made by him between July 1, 1871, and July 1, 1872, he was
allowed and paid a salary of $7.00, and that if he had been
paid in commissions upon said returns, under the act of 1854,
he would have received $568.64. He also alleges that the
Postmaster General refused to readjust his salary as such postmaster during his said term of service, whereby he had been
unable to recover his just compensation in the Court of Claims;

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and further, that under the act of March 3i 1883, c. 119, 22
Stat. 487, he did, in writing; present his application for such
readjustment to William F. Vilas, Postmaster, General, who
refused to readjust his salary for the term of service between
April14, 1871, and July 1, 1872, or for any part of that term;
and, therefore, he prays the court for a writ of mandamus to
compel this readjustment.
An amended petition, was filed in the lower court, a demurrer to the petition as thus amended was overruled, and the
respondent then filed pleas to the jurisdiction of the court to
issue a mandamus in the case. He also filed a very elaborate answer, in which many defences were set out, and among
others a denial that by a true construction of the statutes by
which he was governed in the matter of the readjustment of
salaries of postmasters, the plaintiff is now or ever was entitled
to such a readjustment. The court below, having issued a
rule to show cause why a mandamus should not issue, to
which these defences on the part of the Postmaster General
were set up, on final hearing decided in his favor, and discharged the rule. To that judgment the present writ of error
is directed.
Before proceeding to examine with minuteness the various
statutes on which the arguments turn, it may be well to state
in condensed shape the two propositions relied on by the
contesting parties growing out of the construction of these
statutes.
Counsel for the defendant assert the proposition, that, under
the statutes on this subject, which will hereafter be referred
to, there was no obligation resting upon the Postmaster General to readjust the salaries of these officers oftener than once
in two years; that such readjustment, when it took place,
could only establish the amount of the salary for two years
thereafter, and that no such readjustment could be made unless
there were quarterly returns for two years preceding such
readjustment on which it could be based.
Counsel for the plaintiff, on the other hand, insist that whenever3, upon the filing of any quarterly return by a postmaster
of the third, fourth, or fifth class, it is shown that the salary

McL1&N v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

allowed is ten per cent less than it would be on the basis of
commissions under the act of 1854, then the Postmaster General shall review and readjust his salary under the provisions
of the act, and that this duty devolves upon him at the end
of every quarter when the return of the postmaster for that
quarter shows this condition of affairs; so that he is compelled,
by this construction of the law, to make this readjustment
four times a year if the returns justify it, instead of once every
two years, as the counsel for the Postmaster General contend.
From the beginning of the government down to the year
1864 postmasters were paid by. commissions on the receipts
at their offices, ascertained by their quarterly returns of the
moneys received for postage, stamps, box rents, &c. Until
1836 all postmasters were appointed by the Postmaster General, and were thence called deputy postmasters. So much of
the statute of June 22, 1854, as is pertinent to the considerati6n of this case, is here inserted:
"That in place of the compensation now allowed deputy
postmasters the Postmaster General be, and he is hereby,
authorized to allow them commissions at the following rates
on the postage collected at their respective offices, in each
quarter of the year, and in due proportion for any period less
than a quarter, viz.:
"On any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, sixty per
cent; but any postmaster at whose office the mail is to arrive
regularly between the hours of nin o'clock at night and five
o'clock in the morning, may be allon ed seventy per cent on
the first hundred dollars;
"On any sum over and above one hundred dollars, and not
exceeding four hundred dollars, fifty per cent;
"On any sum over and above four hundred dollars, but not
exceeding twenty-four hundred dollars, forty per cent;
"And on all sums over twenty-four hundred dollars, fifteen
per cent." 10 Stat. c. 61, 298.
In 1864 Congress, changed this system of allowing commissions on the amounts received by the postmasters as their compensation, and determined that it should be a fixed salary in
lieu of such commissions, and also divided these officials into

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

five classes. So much-of'this statute as is necessary to be considered in this connection is here inserted :
"SEc. 1. That the annual compensation of postmasters shall
be at a fixed salary, in lieu of commissions, to be divided into
five classes, exclusive of the postmaster of the city- of New
York.
"Postmasters of the first class shall receive not more than
lfour thousand dollars, nor less than three thousand dollars;
"Postmasters of the second class shall receive less than
three thousand dollars, and not less than two thousand dollars;
"1Postmasters of the third class shall receive less than two
thousand dollars, and not less than one thousand dollars;
"Postmasters of the fourth class shall receive less than one
thousand dollars, and not less than one hundred dollars;
- "Postmasters of the fifth class shall receive less than one
hundred dollars.
"The compensation of the postmaster of New York shall be
six thousand dollars per annum, to take effect on the first day
of July, eighteen hundred and sixty-four; and !he compensa
tion of postmasters of the- several classes aforesaid shall be
established by the Postmaster General under the rules hereinafter provided.
"Whenever the compensation of postmasters of the several
offices, (except the office of New York,) for the two consecutive years next preceding the first day of July, eighteen hun-h d I sixty-four, shall have amounted to an average annual
.sum not less than three thousand dollars, siich offices shall be
assigned to the first class; whenever it shall have amounted
to less than three thousand dollars, but not less than two
thousand dollars, such offices shall be assigned to the second
class; whenever it shall have amounted to less tlha:n two thousand dollars, but not less than one thousand dollars, such
offices shall be assigned to the third class; wheneveri it shall
have amounted to less than one thousand dollars, but not less
than one hundred dollars, such offices shall be assigned to the
fourth class; and whenever it shall have amounted to less than
one hundred dollars, such offices shall be assigned to the fifth

class.

-McLEAN v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

"To offices of the first, second, and third classes shall be
severally assigned salaries, in even hundreds of dollars, as
nearly as practicable in amount the same as, but not exceeding,
the average compensation of the postmasters for the two years
next preceding; and to offices of the fourth class shall be
assigned severally salaries, in even tens of dollars, as nearly as
practicable in amount the same as, but not exceeding, such
4verage compensation for the two years next preceding; and
to offices of the fifth class shall be severally assigned salaries,
in even dollars, as nearly as practicable in amount the sane as,
but not exceeding, such average compensation for the~two
years next preceding.
" Whenever returns showing the average of annual compensation of postmasters for the two years next preceding the
firs' day of July, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, shall not
have been received at the Post Office Department at the time
of adjustment, the same may be estimated .by the Postmaster
General for the purpose of adjusting the salaries of postmasters
herein provided for.
"And it shall be the duty of the Auditor of the Treasury
for the Post Office Department to obtain from postmasters
their quarterly accounts with the vouchers necessary to a correct adjustment thereof, and to report to the Postmaster
General all failures of postmasters to render such returns
within a proper period after the close of each quarter.
"SEc. 2. That the Postmaster General shall review once in
two years, and in special cases, upon satisfactory representation, as much oftener as he may deem expedient, and readjust,
on the basis of- the preceding section, the salary assigned by
him to any office; but any change made in such salary shall
not take effect until the first day of the quarter next following
such order, and all orders made assigning or changing salaries
shall be made in writing, and recorded in his journal, and
notified to the Auditor for the Post Office D~partment.
" SEC. 3. That salaries of the first, second, and third classes
shall be adjusted to take effect on the first day of July,
eighteen hundred and sixty-four, and of the fourth and fifth
classes at the same time or at the commencement of a quarter
as nearly as practicable thereafter.

-92

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion .f the Court.

"SEc. 4. That at offices which have not been established
for two years prior to the first of July, eighteen hundred and
sixty-four, the salary may be adjusted upon a satisfactory
return by the postmaster of the receipts, expenditures, and
business of his office." 13 Stat. 335, c. 197.
'By the act of June 12, 1866, this act of 1864 was amended
by adding the following proviso-to its second section:
"Provided, That when the quarterly returns of any postmaster of the third, fourth, or fifth class 'show that the salary
allowed is ten per centum less than it would be on the basis of
commissions under the act of 1854, fixing compensation, then
the Postmaster General shall review and readjust under the
provisions of said section." 14 Stat. 60, c. 114, ยง 8.
The law stood on these enactments during the period of
McLean's service, except that by the consolidating statute of
June 8, 1872, 17 Stat. 283, c. 335, the readjustment of salaries
was only obligatory when the compenmation was twenty per
cent, instead of ten per cent, less than it would have been under
the act of 1854. Its language is as follows:
" SEC. 82. That the salaries of postmasters shall be readjusted by the Postmaster General once in two years, and in
special cases as much oftener as he may deem expedient; and
when the quarterly returns of any postmaster of the third,
fourth, or fifth class show that the salary allowed is twenty
per centum less than it would be on a basis of commission, the
Postmaster General shall readjust the same.'?
The act of March 3, 1883, which authorized and directed
the Postmaster General to readjust the salaries of all postmasters and late postmasters of the third, fourth, and fifth
classes, is as follows:
"That the Postmaster General be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to readjust the salaries of all postmasters
and late- postmasters of the. third, fourth, and fifth classes,
under the classilication provided for in the act of July 1, 1864.
whose salaries have not heretofore been readjusted under the
terms of ยง 8 of the act of June 12, 1866, who made sworn
returns of receipts and business for readjustment of salary to
the Postmaster General, the First Assistant Postmaster Gen-

McLEA:N v. 'VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

eral, or the Third Assistant Postmaster General, or who nade
quarterly returns in conformity to the then existing laws. and
regulations, -showing that the saaiy. allowed was ten per
centum less than it would have been.fupon the basis of commissions under the act of 1854; such readjustments to be
made in accordance with the mode presented in ยง 8 of the
act of June 12, 1866, and to date from the beginning of the
quarter succeeding that in which such sworn returns of receipts and business, or quarterly returns, were made: Provided, That every readjustment of salary under this act -shall
be upon a written Application, signed by the postmaster or
late postmaster, or legal representative, entitled to said readjustment; and that each payment made shall be by warrant
or check on the Treasurer or some assistant treasurer of the
United States, made payable to the order of said applicant,
and forwarded by mail to him at the post-office within whose
delivery he resides, and which address shall be set forth in
the application above provided for." 22 Stat. c. 119, 487.
With the answer of the Postmaster General are presented
as exhibits two opinions of Attorney General Brewster, given
in response to requests of the Postmaster General; also an
opinion by the Assistant Attorney General for the Post Office
Department, and the opinion of Postmaster General Gresham
in a letter to Hon. Frank Hatton, First Assistant Postmaster
General. All of these sustain the proposition already stated
on behalf of the defendant.
These, with the argument of counsel, and the briefs now
before us, cover the whole field of controversy. M[any objections are taken by the counsel for the defendant which would
be worthy of serious consideration if it were necessary to
decide them, but as we agree with the Postmaster General
in such a construction of these statutes as shows that they
imposed no obligation upon him to make the readjustment
of salary claimed by the plaintiff, and as this goes to the
merits of the controversy, we prefer to rest the case on this
point without any consideration of the others.
Upon a very careful examination of these statutes we are
forced to the conclusion that the legislature in these enact-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

ments did not contemplate a readjustment of the salaries of
any of these officers oftener than once in two years, as a legal
duty or obligation upon the part of the Postmaster General.
true, undoubtedly, that many cases of hardship might
It is.
arise for want of a more frequent adjustment. In towns
where the .population and business grew very rapidly an
adjustment made at a time when' the compensation would
amount to three or four dollars a.quarter might be very inadequate, when, if readjusted according to the later returns,
the salary might amount to six or eight hundred dollars per
annum, while the officer, if he served at all, would be compelled to serve at the inconsiderable compensation originally
established.
The answer to this suggestion is, that the Postmaster General was expressly authorized, within his discretion, to make
readjustments in special cases, upon satisfactory representations, as much as he might deem expedient. The very fact
that this discretion was left to him in these special casqs, and
that the rule which should govern him in the exercise of the
power was left to his sense of right and propriety, is an
argument against the necessity of any more frequent readjustment than once in two years, as a positive duty arising
from a proper construction of the statutes.
The act of'1864, which abolished the system of compensation by a fixed commission on all the receipts at the postoffices, evidently adopted a principle of establishing a salary
for two years, which was to be fixed by a relation in each of
the five classes of postmasters, to the amount received at those
offices. It enacts that the compensation of the postmasters of
the several offices, except the office at New York, for the two
consecutive years next preceding the first day of July, 1864,
shall be the basis at which the salaries of those offices shall be
fixed for the next two years. The second section declares thai
the Postmaster General shall review once in two years, and, in
special cases, upon satisfactory representation, as much oftener
as 'he may deem expedient, and readjust,, on the basis of the
preceding section and of the rates there fixed, the salary
assigned by him to any office; and that any change made, in

McLEAN .6. VILAS.
I Opinion of the Court

such salary shall not take effect until the first day of the quarter next following such order.
Here is a very clear statement that the salaries of these
offices are to be fixdd once in two years, that this shall be done
by the Postmaster General, and that it shall be based upon the
receipts at those offices for the two consecutive years next preceding the time when it is made. The manifest purpose of this
statute is, first, to change the compensation of the postmaster
from a mere fixed commission on the receipts of his office to
a regular salary; second, that this salary shall be fixed for a
period of two years prospectively; and third, that, owing to
the varying amount of receipts at post-offices, which may rapidly, grow,"the Postmaster General is required to make, on the
basis already given, a readjustment once in two years. If, as
already said, cases of great hardship, where there is a sudden
increase of business, seem to demand a more frequent readjust-.
ment, the power to do this is left-with the Postmaster General,
but rests entirely in his discretion.
The statutory provision on which it is asserted that a change
of this rule rests, so that it is the duty of the Postmaster General to make a readjustment at the end of any quarter where
the return from an office shows that the salary allowed is ten.
per cent less than it would be on the basis of the commissions'
under the act of 1851, is the proviso found in section eight -of
the act of 1866, which reads as follows: "Provided, That when
the quarterly' returns of any postmaster of the third, fourth,, or
fifth class show that the salary allowed is ten per centum less
than it would be on the basis of commissions under the act of
1854 fixing compensation, then the Postmaster General shall
review and readjust under the provision of said section."
What quarterly returns are here meant, as showing that
the salary is ten per cent less than the commissions under the
act of 1854A The argument of counsel is, that when any one
quarterly return shall show this condition of affairs, the Postmaster General, on the request of the postmaster, must make
a readjustment, but suoh is not the language of the statute.
The expression used is, "when the quarterly returns" shall
show this, and inasmuch as the law had already established

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

that readjustments must be made on the basis of the quarterly
returns for two years, it is reasonable to suppose that that was
the meaning of Congress in this proviso.
To require the Postmaster General, who albne cn make
these readjustments, to act upon every case where the last
quarterly return shows a case for a readjustment, would be
imposing a duty which it would be impossible for one man to
perform, and which in itself would be an inconvenience not
justified by any benefit to the incumbents of such offices. This
compensation might vacillate .every quarter. A salary might
be increased one quarter, and it might be proper to diminish it
the next; so that, instead of having a salary, or yearly compensation, as we think the spirit of all the statutes requires,
and as it must be prospective, it would be in the end paying a
man for a fuure quarter a compensation which he had earned
on a past quarter. The whole spirit of the statutes seems to
imply that the returns for the past two years are to be taken
as the best conjectural basis that can be obtained for fixing the
salary for two years in the future. ]Before we can adopt such
a construction, therefore, as is contended for by plaintiff's
counsel, words imperatively declaring such a proposition should
be found in the statutes.
The language which is used in the proviso, instead of declaring as could easily have been done, that the return of every
quarter shall be the basis upon which to determine the compensation of the officer for the next succeeding quarter, is
"that when the quarterly returns of any postmaster" of the
classes specified "show that the salary allowed is ten per centun less than it would be on the basis of commissions under
the act of 1854, fixing compensation, then the Postmaster General shall review and readjust the salary under the provisions'of
said section." The provisions of that section, as we have
already seen, direct the Postmaster General to review and
readjust the salaries of postmasters once in two years, except
in special cases, upon the basis of the preceding section,
namely, ยง 2 of the act of 1864.
That basis of the preceding section is the returns for. the
two years consecutively preceding the readjustment. .So

McLEAN r. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

that, taking the use bf the plural, "quarterly returns," instead
of the singular, any quarterly return ; taking the reference to
the second section of the act of 1864, which is the basis of the
whole system, as the provision under which the readjustment
shall be made;- and the clear statement of that section that the
review shall be made once in two years, and shall be based on
the provisions of section one of the same statute, which requires returns of two consecutive years, we do not think that
the proviso is fairly capable of the construction which counsel
for plaintiff claim for it.
If that construction be a sound one, the salary for the first
quarter under it might not be half as much as would be a
proper compensation for the preceding quarter on the same
basis, and the return of a postmaster for the quarter on which
this basis may be made, while doing him no good, might produce a very exaggerated salary for the man who should succeed him at the end of the quarter. We see nothing in this
construction which commends it to the wisdom of Congress,
and we see nothing in the language used by Congress which
requires it. It is in conflict with the opinions of the two able
Postmasters General who have had the question under consideration, as well as with those of the Attorney General and his
assistants, and it is also opposed to our own judgment of its
fair meaning, taken in connection with the whole legislation on
the subject.
As the record shows that there were not returns from the
post office of the plaintiff for two years preceding the time
when he demanded that a readjustment should take place, and
also that a readjustment was made for the period from July 1,
1872, to July 1, 1874, it is obvious, according to this construction of the statutes, that there is no duty on the Postmaster
General to make the readjustment asked for.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia is. therefore,
Affirmed.
VOL. C=xiV-7

