GREAT FALLS 3MFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL:

581

Syllabus.

trial of a proceeding against the master, to recover the penalty,
and a judgment therefor had been rendered against him; and
all exceptions to the libel that the liability of the master, if
any, had not been ascertained--n a .proceeding against him
prior to the filing thereof were thereby waived.
For the reasons assigned, the decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed, and t/he cause remanded with directions to takefwrtlher proceedings therein, in accordancewith this opinion.

GREAT FALLS MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Submitted December 19, 1887. -Decided

Febuary 6, 1888.

An arbitration was had ir 1863 between the Great Falls Manufacturing
Company and the Secretary of the Interior (on behalf of the United
States) in regard to the amount of compensation to be paid to the company for its land, water rights and other property to be taken for the
Washington aqueduct. The arbitrators reported four alternative plans:
for the construction of the proposed work, and decided that if Plan 4
should be adopted, involving only a dam from the Maryland shore to,
Conn's Island, the Ufiited States should pay as damages the sum of$15,692; but that if Plan 1 should be adopted, involving the construction of a dam from the Maryland shore across the Maryland channel and
Conn's Island to the Virginia shore, the company should receive as damages the sum of $63,766, and should also have the right to build and
maintaifi a dam and bulkhead across the land of the United States in Virginia, and to use the water, subject to the superior right of the United
States to its use for the purposes of the aqueduct. The United States
The comconstructed the aqueduct, adopting substantially Plan 4.
pany sued in the Court of Claims for compensation, and recovered a
judgment for $15,692, which was affirmed here. 112 U. S. 645. By an act
of Congress passed in 1882, for increasing the water supply, provision
was made for the acquisition of further property and further rights, and
for the extension of the dam across Conn's Island to and upon the Virginia shore. This statute provided for a survey and for the making and
filing of a map of the property to be taken and acquired under it,and
also for notice of the filing ta the parties interelted, for appraisements
of property taken, for awards of damages, and forayment of the awards

582

OCTOBER TERM,, 1887.
Syllabus.

on receiving conveyances of the lands, &c., taken. A right was also
given to each owner dissatisfied with the award in his case, to proceed
for damages in the Court of Claims against the United States within one
year from the publication of the notice. Under this act of 1882 a dam
was constructed substantially in accordance with Plan 1, and other
property and other rights of the Great Falls Company were taken in the
construction, but no provision was made for a canal and bulkhead
whereby the company could use the surplus water. On the last day of
'the year after the filing of the notice under the statute, the company filed
its petition in the Court of Claims to recover damages for the taking of
its property, and then filed this bill in the Circuit Court, alleging that
that petition had been filed from fear that the company might lose any
benefit of the act by limitation, and to save its rights, and for no other
purpose; that the survey and map were defective inasmuch as land had
been taken from the company which was not included in them; that the
notice of the filing of the map had not been given as required by the statute, but was materially defective; and that the act requiring the company to submit its rights to the judgment of the Court of Claims was
unconstitutional in that, among other things, it made no provision for
ascertaining the amount of compensation by a jury. For relief the bill
prayed that the structures commenced might be removed, or, if it should
appear that the property had been legally condemned, that an issue be
framed, triable by jury, to ascertain the amount of plaintiff's damage, and
that judgment be given for the sum found. Defendant demurred and,
the demurrer being sustained, the bill was dismissed. Held:
(1) That the United States having adopted and executed Plan 4,
neither party was bound by the award as to Plan 1; and as no
reservation had been made by the act of 1882 as to the bulkhead or
canal for the use of the surplus water, that the officers charged
-with the construction of the dam were not bound to concede such
rights to the company, though the United States were bound to
make compensation for whatever rights or property of the company were taken and appropriated to public use;
(2) That, as the survey and map had been made in good faith and
undoubtedly embraced most of the property taken, if it happened
that any tract taken was not included in them the proceedings were
not invalidated by the omission, but the United States were bound
to make compensation for the omitted tract as if it had been included In the map;
(3) That defects in the notice were waived by filing the petition in the
Court of Claims;
(4) That the commencement of that proceeding was a waiver of any
constitutional objection against the taking of the company's property or of the settlement of the amount of the damage therefor by
the Court of Claims; but this was decided without intending to
express a doubt as to the constitutionality of the act of 1882;
(5) That the purpose with which the plaintiff invoked the jurisdiction of
the Court of Claims was immaterial.

GREAT FALLS MIFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

583

Statementof the Case.

THE court stated the case as follows:
Congress formed the purpose, many years ago, of supplying
the cities of Washington and Georgetown with water from the
Petomac River, at the Great Falls, in the State of Maryland.'
A controversy having arisen between the Secretary of the
Interior - charged with the expenditure of public moneys
appropriated for that purpose - and the Great Falls Manufacturing Company, as to the compensation, if any, which the
latter was entitled to receive for certain land and water
rights, it or near the Great Falls, which that company
claimed and which the officers of the Government proposed
to take for public use, articles of agreement were signed by
that company and the Secretary of the Interior,. on the 20th
of November, 1863, submitting the matters in dispute to the
arbitrament of Benjamin R. Curtis, Xoseph R. Swan, and others. The Government exhibited to the arbitrators four alternative plans, with specifications, for what is called the Potomac
dam of the Washington aqueduct. The majority of the arbitrators awarded and determined, FPebruary 28, 1863, that "if
the United States shall adopt and decide to execute the plan
of Qperations designated in the specifications and on the plat
as Dam A, being the first plan of operations mentioned in the
said specifications, then the Great Falls Manufacturing Company are legally entitled to the sum of sixty-three thousand
seven hundred and sxty-six dollars, (863,766,) as compensation
for the use and occupation by the United States of the land,
water rights, and privileges claimed by the said company, and
all consequential damages to the property and rights of the
said company, which they may legally claim by reason of the
execution by the United States of the plan of operations last
above mentioned. But this assessment is based upon the condition that the said company, as against the United States,
may lawfully build and maintain a canal and bulkhead across
and upon the land of the United States, on the Virginia shore
1 10 Stat. 206, c. 97; 11 Stat. 225, c. 105; 11 Stat. 263, c. 14; 11 Stat. 323,
e.154; 11 Stat. 435, e.84; 12 Stat. 106, c. 211; 13 Stat. 384, c. 244; 14 Stat.
316, C. 296.

OCTOBER TERML,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

of the Potomac, since marked on the same plat numbered 4 as
belonging to the United States, so .as to use the water of thepoolabove the Dam A, subject to the superior right of the
United States to use the water for the aqueduct in the manner

and to the extent shown by the aforesaid specification of the
said Dam A, and its corresponding plan of operations."
This plan involved, the construction of a dam from the
feeder of the aqueduct, thence across the Maryland channel
and Conn's Island to the Virginia bank, on land belonging to
the United States.
The arbitrators concurred in awarding and determining that
"if the United States shall adopt and decide to execute the
plan of operations designated in the specification and on the
plat as ' Plan 4th,' being the fourth plaii of operations named
in the said specification, then the .said Great Falls Manufacturing Company are legally, entitled to the sum of fifteen thousand six hundred and ninety-two dollars ($15,692) as compensation for the use and occupation by the United States of the
land, water rights, and privileges claimed by the said company,
and all coisequential damages to the property and rights of the
said company which they may legally claim by reason of the
execution by the United States of the plan of operations last
above mentioned."
The- latter plan involved the construction of a dam of
masonry from the Maryland shore to Conn's Island, and gave
the United States the right to deepen the channels on the Maryland side of that island, near its head.
In United States v. Great -Falls Manufacturing Copany,
112 U. S. 645, this court affirmed a judgment of the Court of
Cldims for $15,69% as compensation and damages to- that
company by reason of the adoption and execution by the
United States of Plan 4.
The present suit by the Great Falls Manufacturing Company
relates to the construction of a dam across and from Conn's
Island to the Virginia shore, for which provision was made by
an. act of Congress approved July 15, 1882, 22 Stat. 168, c.
294, entitled "An act to increase the water supply of the city
of Washington, and for other purposes." The act provides for

GREAT FALLS MFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

585

Statement of the Case.

a survey and map of the land necessary to extend the Washington aqueduct to the high ground north of WashingL3nm near
Sixth Street extended, and of the land necessary for a reservoir
at that point. But it also contains the following provisions:
. a
"The Secretary of _War shall cause to be made
like survey and map of the land necessary for a dam across
the Potomac River at the Great Falls, including the land no-V
occupied by the dam, and the laiid required for the extension
of said dam across Conn's Island to and upon the Virginia
shore; and when surveys and maps shall have been made the
Secretary of War and the Attorney General of the United
States shall proceed to acquire to and for the United States
the outstanding title, if any, to said land and water rights, and
to the land on which, the gate-house at Great Falls stands
by condemnation: . . . And provided further, That if it
shall be necessary to resort to condemnation, the proceeding
shall be as follows:
"When the map and survey are completed, the Attorney
General shall proceed to ascertain the owners or claimants of
the premises embraced in the survey, and shall cause to be
published, for the space of thirty days, in one or more of the
daily newspapers published in the District of Columbia, a
description of the entire tract or tracts of land embraced in
the survey, with a notice that the same has been taken for the
uses mentioned in this act, and notifying all claimants to any
portion of said premises to file, within its period of publication, in the Department of Justice, a description of the tract
or parcel claimed, and a statement-of its value as estimated by
the claimant. On application of the Attorney General, the
chief justice of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia shall appoint three persons, not in the employ of the Government or related to the claimants, to act as appraisers, whose
duty it shall be, upon rbceiving from the Attorney General a
description of any tract or parcel the ownership of which, is
claimed separately, to fairly and justly value the same and
report such valuation to the Attorney General, who thereupon
shall, upon being satisfied as to the title to the same, cause to
be offered to the owner or owners the amount fixed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

appraisers as the value thereof; and if the offer be accepted,
then, upon the execution of a, deed to the United States in
form satisfactory to the Attorney General, the Secretary of
War shall pay the amount to such owner or owners from the
appropriation made therefor in this act.
"In making the valuation the appraisers shall only consider
the present value of the land without reference to its value for
the uses for which it is taken under the provisions of this act.
"The appraisers shall each receive for their services five dollars for each day's actual service in making the said appraise,
ments.
"Any person or corporation having any estate or interest in
any of the lands embraced in said survey and map, who shall for
any reason not have been tendered payment therefor as above
provided, or who shall have declined to accept the amount tendered therefor, and any person who, by reason of.-the taking
of said. land or -by the construction of the works hereinafter
directed to be constructed, shall be directly injured in any
property right, may, at any time within one year from the
publication of notice by the Attorney G6neral as, above provided, file a petition in the Court of Claims of. the United
States, setting forth his' right or title and the amount claimed
by him as damages for the property taken or injury sustained;
and the said court shall hear and adjudicate such claims in the
same manner as other claims against the United States are
now by law directed to be heard and adjudicated therein:
Provided, That the court shall make such special rules in
respect to such cases as shall secure their hearing and adjudication with the least possible delay.
"Judgments in favor of such claimants shall be paid as
other judgments of said court are now directed to be paid;
and any claimant to whom a tender shall .have been made, as
hereinbefore authorized, and who shall have declined to accept
the same, shall, unless he recover an amount greater than that
so tendered, be taxed with the entire cost of the proceeding.
All claims for value or damages on account of ownership of
any interest in said premises, -or on account of injury to a
property right by the construction of said works, shall. uiless

GREAT FALLS M1FG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

587

Statement of the Case.

a petition for the recovery thereof be fied within one year
from the date of the first publication of notice by the Attorney General as above directed,, be forever barred: .P'ovided,
That owners or claimants ]aboring under any of the disabilities
defined in the statute of limitations of the District of Columbia
may file a petition at any time within one year from the
removal of the disability.
"Upon the publication of the rlotice as above directed, the
Secretary of War may take possession of the premises embraced in the survey and map, and proceed with the constructions herein authorized; and, upon payment being made
therefor, or, without" payment, upon the expiration of the
times above limited without the filing of a petition, an absolute title to the premises shall vest in the United States.
"SEc. 2. That the Secretary of War be, and is hereby, auto complete the dam at Great
thorized and directed . .
Falls to the level of one hundred and forty-eight feet above
tide, and extend the same at that level across Conn's Island to
the Virginia shore; and that he raise the embankment between
the Potomac iRiver and the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal above
the dam, so as to protect the canal from the increased flooding
which the completion of the-dam will cause in times of high
water, or pay to the canal company, in full satisfaction for all
such flooding, the amount hereinafter appropriated for that
purpose.
"SEc. 3. That the following sum or so much thereof as may
be necessary is hereby appropriated out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated: . . .
"To pay for water rights and land -necessary to extend
dam at Great Falls to the Virginia shore, forty-five thousand
dollars.
"For work and material to complete the dam at Great Falls
to the level of one hundred and forty-eight feet above tide, and
extend the same to the Virginia shore, 'one hundred and fortyfive thousand one hundred and fifty-one dollars. .
"To protect the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal from increased
flooding by reason of completing the dam Lt Great Falls,
twelve thousand three hundred dollars.

OCTOBER TERM0,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

"To provide for the erection of suitable fish-ways at the
Great Falls of the Potomac, and at the dam to be constructed
under the provisions of this act, in accordance with plans anid
specifications to be prescribed by the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, fifty thousand dollars, or so much
thereof as ma, be necessary."
The defendants are Augustus II. Garland, Attorney General
of the United States; William C. Endicott, Secretary of War;
Garrett J. Lydecker, Major of Engineers in the United States
Army, having charge, under the Secretary of War, of the construction of the before mentioned darn, from Conn's Island to
the Virginia shore; and George B. Chittenden and Samuel 1i.
Chittenden, contractors -ith the Secretary of War for said
work.
The plaintiff in its bill alleges that it is, the owner in fee of
Conn's Island; of other tracts of land in the Potomac River
above that island, being the several islands known as the
Cyclades; of a tract of about one thousand acres in Virginia,
on that river, at the Great Falls, known as the Toulson Tract;
and of all the easements, rights of water, use, navigation,
privileges, and fisheries appertaining to those several tracts
or bodies of land. The value placed by the plaintiff upon said
water rights is shown by the allegation that the water at the
Great Falls "being of great purity, and 148 feet above the
mean tide at Washington City, forms the best, most convenient, and almost the only supply of pure water for the capital
of the United States, which will flow by its own weight, and
without the cost of pumping, into the highest habitations of
said District, thus furnishing an unlimited supply of water for
domestic use and extinguishment of fires." The bill recites
the facts connected with the award of February 28, 1863, and,
after stating the circumstances under which it recovered said
judgment against the United States in the Court of Claims,
refers to the provisions of the.act of July 15, 1882. It alleges
that the Secretary caused to be made a survey and map, but
that they were not kufficiently accurate to be the foundation of
proceedings for the condemnation of plaintiff's land and water
rights to the public use. Referring to the notice of such sur-

GREAT FALLS MFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

589

Statement of the Case.

vey and map as-published by the Attorney General, it alleges
that the only claim made by that officer as to said land and
water rights was the following contained in such notice: "In
addition to acquiring to and for the United States any outstanding title to these lands at the Great Falls, it is also proposed to acquire all water rights implied in the possession of
the same or needed for- purposes contemplated by the act
under which tlese proceedings are taken. The map of the
surveys (in these tracings) iequired for the uses enumerated in
the above named act of 1882, c. 294, may be seen at this department by all claimants to any portion of said premises."
The lands above referred to are thus described in the same
notice:
"1st. For extending the dam to and upon the Virginia
shore, it is proposed to take and acquire title to a strip about
918 feet wide, crossing Conn's Island and the Virginia channel, and connecting the United States property on Fals.Island
and Hard-to-come-at, with the United States property on the
Virginia shore. This will extend the preseat limits of the
United States property on the Virginia shore to the south, by.
taking in a triangular lot containing about 8-10 acres.
"This tract is colored in yellow on tracing C."
The bill charges that, -" although no notice of any taking
has been given in the manner prescribed by law, and although
no act has been done which would justify him in so doing, the
Secretary of War, in the year 1883, by his servants and agents,
wrongfully took possession of the lands of your complainant,
claiming to have done so in behalf of the United States, in the
State of Maryland and in Virginia, which land was not within
any description made, surveyed, or traced by the Secretary of
War, and has used said land for the purpose of constructing a
dam along a portion of said land across Conn's Island and over
said river to the Virginia shore, and has built a large portion
of said dam by means of his said servants and agents without.
making any bulkhead in said dam or any provision whatever
by whichi your complainant can use any portion of the water
for manufacturing or other valuable purposes, as was awarded.
by the arbitratols in their award as aforesaid in favor of your

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

complainants, the .dam to be constructed after the manner of
Plan A. And your complainant is informed and believes, and
therefore avers, that the War Department of the United States
has occupied said land with a force sufficient to prevent any
opposition of your complainant to its acts and doings, or the
gets and doings of its servants, agents, and employ6s without
a breach of the peace of the State of Maryland."
It is also averred in the bill that the plaintiff waited, after
several applications by it, both verbally and in writing, to the
Attorney General and Secretary of War, until the last day
before the, year limited by said act in which claims might be
filed in the Court of Claims for damages, expecting that steps
would be taken by which its land and water rights might be
legally taken by the United States in such form that it could
obtain reasonable compensation for such property; and that
nothing being done, from great caution and fear lest it might
lose all benefit of any provision of said act by limitation, it
then filed a petition in that court, setting forth its claim in
order to save its rights, and for no other purpose whatever.
But it protests that what the Secretary of War and the Attorney.General did are simple trespasses and wrongs done to the
plaintiff, and that for the want of legal steps on theiri part, for
the condemnation of its property, the Court of Claims is without jurisdiction to ascertain and award compensation to it.
The bill concludes with the averment that, even if the provisions of the act of Cohgress had been strictly followed, the
9teps taken by the Secretary of War and the Attorney General would not be justified in law, because the act under which
they claimed to proceed is unconstitutional and void. The
grounds upon which its validity is assailed will be hereafter
-indicated.
,The relief asked is a decree restraining defendants
and each
of them froni further occupying the pTintiff's lands and premises or from building any structure thereon, or in any way
hindering or interfering with the natural flow of the water
between Conn's Island and the Virginia hore; that the de-fendants and eacli of them be required to remove and cause to
*berbm6ved every structure, dam, and embankment heretofore

GREAT FALLS MFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

591

Argument for Appellant.

erected by them or by any officer of the United States, acting
in their behalf in the premises; that if it shall appear that its
land and water rights have been legally condemned to the use
of the United States, an issue be framed, triable by a jury, for
the ascertainment of te compensation due the plaintiff, and
that it have 'judgment for the amount so found in its favor;
and that all persons, claiming to act for or on behalf of the
United States, be restrained from occupying or in any way
interfering with said land and water rights until the dmount
of such judgment be paid or tendered to plaintiff, or paid into
court for its use.
In the court below a demurrer to the bill was sustained, and
the plaintiff declining to amend, its suit was dismissed with
costs. G-reat Falls Manufacturing Co. v. Garland, 25 Fed.

Rep. 521.
Mr. Be7nyak
lant.

F. Butler and: 21r. 0. D. Barrett for appel-

I. The act of 1882 in its provisions is unconstitutional: (1)
In that it does not take private property for public use. Instead thereof it takes land and water-power, the property of
the United States under the award, but for which the Government has not paid compensation to the owner: (2) In that
the act tends to avoid an adjudication and determination of,
damages for land already taken by the United States by a
new taking: (3) In that the act tends to avoid and set -aside a
compact with a sovereign State for -the making of which the*
Governiment has received consideration from the State and its,
citizens, to which the faith of the Government is solemnly
pledged: (4) In that it takes private land and water privileges in that State without the assent of the State of Maryland, or any cession of jurisdiction thereof, for the use of the
inhabitants of Washington and Georgetown:
II. It is unconstitutional in that it does not provide for a
constitutional dnd impartial tribunal to assess and determine
the damages or compensation for the private property taken,
if the taking is a "purchase" or condemnation in these: (1) It.
provides for a valuation of land and water rights taken, for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellant.

purpose of fixing just compensation for the taking by appraisers, all appointed by an agent of the Government only, and
does not provide any notice to the injured party to take part
in such appointment, or to be present, or heard at the appraisement. And the only provision for compensation is a tender
of such valuation, and to get that, a deed of its land must be
executed at his own expense by the injured party: (2) It provides that such appraisers shall not consider the true and just
value of the property taken or injured: as compensation, in
these words: "In making the valuation the appraiser shall
only consider the present value of the land, -without reference
to the value for the uses for which it is taken, under the provisions of this act:" (3) It does not provide for a constitutional tribunal by which damages and- compensation shall be
assessed for private lands taken for a public use, such controversy being a "suit at law," the trial by jury was not provided,
nor any tribunal whose judgment as to compensation can be
enforced; nor is any pledge of the faith of the Government
that said compensation shall be paid, or'any payment ordered,
save in case such appraisement is accepted: (4)In this, that it
provides as the only tribunal, the Court of Claims, which has
no power to enforce the paymefit of any of its decisions, or to
adjudicate cases or suits like the present, where specific performances of contracts is to be adjudged and enforced: (5) In
that the act does not provide, nor is there any other provision
of law by which the comitpensation for the property taken shall
be paid, or any fund from which it shall be paid, save such as
may hereafter be voted by the legislature, and approved by
the accounting officers of the Treasury.
Under this head they cited as to the first and second propositions: Rhine v. .cl.invey, 53 Texas, 354; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 656; Great Laxey _ftlng Co. v. Olagve,
4 App. Cas. 115; Nicklin,v. Williams, 10 Exch. 259; lrame
v. K1nowles, 6 H. & N. 451; Lamb v. Walk-er, 3 Q. B. D. 389;
Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403; and as to their right to
a trial by juty: ( /1arlesRiver Bridge v. Marren Bridge, 11
'Pet. 420; )oe v. Stetson, 8 Greenleaf, 365; -orn v. _Hississip
-Central Railroad,36 Mississippi, 300; RaleigA & Gaston Rail-

GREAT FALLS AIFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

593

Argument for Appellant.

roadv. Davis, 2 Dev. & Bat. Law, 451; Evansville &o. Railroad v. Xiller, 30 Indiana, 209; .Plank Road Co. v. Pi kett,
25 Missouri, 535; KYohl v. United States, 91-U. S. 375; 3itchell v. Illinois & St. Louis Railroad, 68 Illinois, 286; Lake
84tore Railroad v. Sanford, 23 Michigan, 418; Whitehead v.
Arkansas Cntral Railroad, 28 Arkansas, 460; Burt v. Merchants' Ins. Co., 106 Massachusetts, 356; Jones v. UnitedStates,
109 U. S. 513; 2 Kent Com., 12th ed., 239, note f. ; Bloodgood
.v. . ohalwk & Hudson Riv" Railroad,18 Wend. 9 ; . C. 31
Am. Dec. 313; Garder v. _Newburgh, 2 Johns. Oh. 162;
S. C. 7 An. Dec. 526; Southwestern Railroad v. Southern
& Atlantic Telegraph Co., 46 Georgia, 43; Ligat v. Cornrnonwealth, 19 Penn. St. 456; Penrice v. Wallace, 37 Mississippi, 172; Brown v. Beatty, 34 Mississippi, 227; Talbot v.
Hudson, 16 Gray, 417; Orr v. Quibly, 54 N. H. 590; Connecticut River Railroad v. -Franklin County Commissioners,
127 Massachusetts, 50; Haverhill Bridge Proprietorsv. Essex
Count Commissioners, 103 Massachusetts, 120; Callison v.
Hedrick, 15 Grattan, 214; Green v. Mich. Southern Railroad,
3 Michigan, 496; Jackson v. WinW's -Heirs,4 Littell, 323;
M~arleston, Branch Railroad Co. v. -Middlesex, 7 Met. 78;
Thite v. Nashville &c. Railroad,7 Heiskell, 518;. Sinuns v.
Xernvhis &c. Railroad Co., 12 Heiskell, 621; State v. -Otessenger, 27 Minnesota, 119; Loweree v. Newark, 38 N. J. Law,
(9 Yroom,) 151; Long v. Fuller, 68 Penn. St. 170; People v.
Hayden, 6 Hill, 359.
III. The Circuit Court erred in this: Assuming the provisions of the act to be within the purview of the Constitution,
and the manner of taking as described by the act is not in any
of its parts constitutionally objectionable, the court should
have overruled the demurrer, and granted the relief sought for
by the bill by some proper order and decree in favor of your
orator: (1) Because it was the duty of those charged with the
execution of the act to carry out and enforce every provision
thereof in relation to purchasing and to "acquiring said land
and water rights," and providing for valuation and appraisement thereof, and so to do all things that your orator might
get relief in the premises without .,ny delay except that
VOL. cxxiv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of urgent necessity. As to all and each of which duties,
doings, and things to be done, prescribed by said act relative to your orator or his said lands, said officers or either
of them did nothing: (2) Because that the Secretary of
War and his officers and agents became trespassers ab initio,
by entering upon the lands of your complainant and taking
possession of them. By the provisions of said act, "upon the
publication of the notice as above directed, the Secretaxy of
War may take possession of the premises embraced in the
survey and map, and proceed with the constructions herein
authorized; and upon payment being made therefor, or without payment upon the expiration of the time above limited,
without the filing of a petition, an absolute title shall vest in
the United States;" and no surveys or proper map embracing
the'lands had been made by him, as is charged in the bill, and
as is admitted by the demurrer; nor was any provision for
payment made; and, without payment or provision for payment, Congress cannot vest. an absolute title to the lands of
the citizen in the United States: (3) Because, if the officers
charged with the execution of this act, do on the land anything
not authorized and directed by the act, or take any other and
different, or more property, or for any other purpose than they
are permitted by the act, then such officers become trespassers
ab initio, and should be enjoined, and other relief against them
be afforded.
To these points they cited: Keiley v. -Morton,2 Cowen, 424;
Carventer v. Grislim, 59 Missouri, 247; .fcCor'd v. High, 24
Iowa, 336,; Becl with v. BecX-,with, 22 Ohio St. 180; Nlewell v.
Wheeler, 48 1N. Y. 486; Stockett v. Nicholson, Walker (Miss.),
75; _fayoi. &c. v. _Delachaise, 22 La. Ann. 26; Dyckma v.
Mayor &o. of New York, 5 NS.Y. (1 Selden), 431; Burt v.
Brigam,117 Mass. 307; Reitenbaugh v. Chester Valley Rai road, 21 Penn. St. 100; United States v. Reed, 56 Missouri,
565; Currierv. .fAarietta & CincinnatiRailroad,11 Ohio St.
228.
ir. Solicitor General for appellees.
MR. JUSTicE HARnLAx, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

GREAT FALLS MFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

595

Opinion of the Court.

The bill alleges that the land and water rights described in
the published notice of the Attorney General are substantiallythose which would have been taken if the United States hadadopted and executed Plan A, as described in the report bf,
the arbitrators in 1863. In respect to that plan, the arbitral
tors decided that if it were adopted and executed the plaintff.
would be entitled to receive $63,766, and, in addition, to retain
the right of using the remainder of the water, by means of
proper canal and bulkhead appliances on the Virginia shore of
the river. While the company contends that its enjoyment of
the right so reserved cannot lawfully be interfered with, it is
not clear that it means to insist upon the award of 1863,
in respect to said amount, as absolutely binding upon the
United States in proceedings had under the act of 1882. It,
will be remembered that the award of 1863 covered four alternative plans for the Potomac dam of the Washington.aqueduct.
The United States adopted and executed only Plan 4, and
thereby manifested its purpose not to adopt and execute Plan
A. Neither the Government nor the company is bound by
that award, so far as it relates to plapp_ which the United
States did not adopt and execute. The present inquiry in respect to land or water rights iaken from 'the plaintiff must,
therefore, be conducted with reference to their value-not in
1863, when the Government declined to take them, but -in
1883, at the time of their being condemned for public use,
under the act of 1882. It is, consequently, an immaterial circumstance that the award of 1863 reserved to the company, as
against the United States, the right ,to maintain a canal and
blkhead across and upon thie land of the United States, on
the Virginia shore of the Potomac. No such reservation is
made by the act of 1882, and the officers charged with its execution were not required to concede any such right, though, of
course, the United States are bound to make just compensation
to the company for property rights of whatever description
taken from it for, and appropriated to, public use.
IMuch stress seems to be laid upon the allegation in the bill
that the
- which the appellant insists must be taken as true Secretary of War, by his servants and agents, took possession of'

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

lands of the plaintiff, which are "not within any description
made, surveyed, ortraced." by him, and has used.the same for the
purpose of constructing the proposed dam across Conn's Island
and to the Yirginia shore. As the act of Congress provided
that the Secretary of War, upon the publication by the Attorney General of the required notice, "may take possession of
the premises embraced in the survey and map," it is contended
that his possession of the company's land and water rights is
without authority of law, and constitutes a mere-trespass; in
which case, it is argued, the United States are not legally
bound to make compensation to the plaintiff. Itis clear that
the allegation that the lands takei for the purposes of the
dam in question are not embraced by the survey, is not to be
literally construed. The plaintiff surely does not mean that
all the lands taken by the Secretary are outside of the survey
made under his order; but, only that such lands are not entirely within its limits, and that the survey was not sufficiently
accurate "to be the foundation of passing the title to.the land
and water rights" of the complainant "necessary to be taken
for the purposes of said act." The plaintiff admits that a survey was, in fact, made, and that the Attorney General published a notice based upon it. And there is no suggestion that
the Secretary has taken any land other than that intended to
be embraced within the survey, of which the Attorney General gave notice by publication. Taking all the allegations o
the bill together, we understand the complaint only to be that
the survey and notice were not such as in law justified the Secretary of War in taking possession of the lands upon which
the proposed dam was being constructed when the suit was
brought. But even if it be true that some part of the land
actually occupied by the Government is not within the survey
and map, still the United States are under an obligation imposed by the Constitution to make just compensation for all
that has been in fact taken and is retained for the proposed
dam. While Congress supposed that a survey and map could
be made with such accuracy as to embrace all the land necessary, under any circumstances, for the purposes indicated in
the act of 1882, and while provision is made whereby the

GREAT FALLS MFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

597

Opinion of the Court.

owvners of lands, covered by such survey and map, can obtain
just compensation,'the act also opens the Court of Claims to
every person who, by the construction of the works in question, has been injured in any property right, provided that,
within a given time, such person file his petition in that court,
setting forth his right or title and the amoitnt claimed by him
as damages. So that if the Secretary of War, who was invested with large discretion in determining what land was
actually required to accomplish in the best manner the object
Congress had in view, found it necessary to tke, and has.
taken and used, and still holds lands of the plaintiff' for'the
proposed dam, which happen not to be covered by the survey
and map, the United States are as much hound to make Just
compensation therefor as if such lands had been actually embraced in that survey and map. Of course, we are not to be
understood as saying that the Secretary of War could, by any
act of his, bind the United States to pay for lands taken by
him which, manifestly, had no substantial connection with the
construction of the dam across Conn's Island to the Virginia
shore. It. is sufficient to say that the record discloses nothing
showing that he has taken more land than was reasonably
necessary for the purposes described in the act of Congress, or
that he did not honestly and reasonably exercise the discretion
with which he was invested; and, consequently, the Government is under a constitutional obligation to make compensation for any property or property-right taken, used, and held
by him for the purposes indicated in the act of Congress,
whether it is embraced or described in -said survey or map, or
not. United States v. Great Fals fanuftcitiring Co., 112
U. S. 645, 656.
In reference to the allegation that the survey and map made
by the Secretary were not sufficiently accurate, and that the
notice published by the Attorney General was materially defective, it may be furthcr said that all such objections were
waived by the company when, proceeding under the act of
1882 it invoked the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to give
judgment against-the United States for such compensation as
it.was entitled to receive for its land and water rights. Eve-n

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

if the Secretary's survey and map, and the publication of the
Attorney General's notice did not, in stribt law, justify the
former in taking possession of the land and water rights in
question, it was competent for the company to waive the tort,
and proceed against the United States, as upon an implied
contract, it appearing, as it does here, that the Government
recognizes and retains the possession taken in its behalf for the
public purposes indicated in the act under which its officers
have proceeded.
It is, however, contended that the act is, in all of its parts,
unconstitutional and void. The grounds upon which the plaintiff rests this contention -are: that the act makes no provision
by which compensation for property taken under it can be
constitutionally adjusted and determined; that it does not
provide for the ascertainment of such compensation by the
verdict of a jury; that it compels the plaintiff to have recourse
to the Court of Claims, which is a court unknown to the Constitution, being neither a court of equity such as was known at
the adoption of that instrument, nor a court of law proceeding
according to the rules of the common law, but only a board of
referee3, constituted by one party to hear such cases as another
party will consent to submit to its determination, and without
power to enforce its judgment against the party by whom it
is created; anl that it directs property to be taken and the
owner thereof dispossessed, without making provision for just
compensation
Thee are questions of much interest, and their examination,
in the light of the authorities, might not be altogether unprofitable. , But this opinion need not be extended for the purpose
of such an examination; for the questions propounded are not
material in the determination of the present case. They have
become immaterial by the act of the plaintiff in instituting
suit against the United States in the Court 3f Claims. In that
suit compensation was sought for its property taken for public
use, while the present suit proceeds upon the ground that it
has not been lawfully taken, and that it is entitled to be
placed in possession thereof. Congress prescribed a particular
-mode for ascertaining the compensation which claimants of

GREAT FALLS M1FG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL.

599

Opinion of the Court.

property taken for the purposes indicated in the act of 1882
were entitled to receive. It gave them liberty to proceed by
suit against the United States before a designated tribunal,
which, since the passage of the act of March 17, 1866, 14 Stat.
9, has exercised "all the functions of a court," from whose
judgment appeals regularly lie to this court. United States v.
Jlein, 13 Wall. 145; United States v. Jones, 119 U.S. 411;
Gordon,v. United States, 117 U. S.697. The plaintiff, by adopting that mode, has assented to the taking of its property by
the Government for public use, and has agreed -to submit the
determination of the question of compensation to the tribuiial
named by Congress. By the very ac.t of suing in the Court
of Claims, under the statute of 1882, it has not only waived
the right, if such right it had, to compensation in advance of
the taking of its property, but the right, if such it had, to
demand that the amount of compensation be determined by a'
jury.. By the same act it has estopped itself from suggesting
that no judgment obtained in the Court of Claims can be enforced against the United States, but must await an appropriation for its payment. When it resorted to that court, it knew
that its judgments against the United States could only be
paid out of money alppropriated for that purpose by Congress.
In short, the plaintiff has voluntarily accepted the provisions
of the act of Congress in respeat to the mode of ascertaining
the compensation to be made to it. This view cannot work
any permanent injury to the plaintiff; for that act expressly
declares that the absolute title to the premises in question
shall not vest in the United States until the owner receives
payment therefor; that is, the Government holds the premises
for public use, subject to the condition imposed by the Constitution, and by the act of Congress, that it will, without unreasonable delay, make such compensation therefor as may be
awarded by the tribunal to which the whole subject has been
submitted. It is to be assumed that the United States is
incapable of bad faith, and that Congress will promptly make
the necessary appropriation, whenever the amount of compensation has been ascertained in the mode prescribed by the act
of 1882.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It is scarcely necessary to say that it is immaterial that the
plaintiff invoked the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims from
fear that, if it did not file its petition in that court within the
time imited,,it might lose the right to demand compensation
for its property. If the act of the Secretary of War in taking
possession of the property was in violation of law, neither, he
nor his agents could rightfully hold possession against the
plaintiff; in which case, the plaintiff might have stood upon
its rights, under the Constitution, and invoked judicial authority for such protection as the law would afford against the
unauthorized acts of public officers. But the plaintiff chose to
acquiesce in the taking of its property for public use, and to
accept the offer of the Government to have the amount. of
compensation fixed by the Court of Claims, according to its
peculiar modes of procedure. The reasons inducing it to adopt
such a course can have no influence upon the action of that
court, nor affect its power t- ascertain and award just compensation for the loss of the property.
Upon the case as presented to us, and without intending to
express doubt as to the constitutionality of the act of July 15,
1882, we are of the opinion that there is no obstacle in the
way of the plaintiff's securing, by means of its suit in the
Court of Claims, and without unreasonable delay, just compensation for all of its property taken for the public use indicated in the act of Congress; and, consequently, the decree
dismissing its bill is

