UNITED STATES v. MOUAT.
Statement of the Case.

In the opinion of the Court of Claims it is said that-_
"The claimant was a ' private of the Marine Corps.' He was
one of 'the marines who composed the organization known
as the 'Marine Band.' He performed on the Capitol grounds
and on the President's grounds, under proper order, and, thus
falling withfn the phraseology of the statute, he should have
received the additional pay."
In this statement we entirely concur, and see no reason to
disturb the judgment of thd court, which is accordingly

Afflrned-

UNITED STATES v. MOUAT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
gubmitted December 14,1887. -Decided

January 23, 1888.

A paymaster's clerk, appointed by a paymaster in the navy with the approval of the Secretary of the Navy, is not an officer of the navy within
the meaning of the act of June 30, 1876, 19 Stat. 65, c. 159, so as to be
entitled to the benefit of the mileage allowed by that act,

Tim petition of the defendant in error in the Court of Claims
was as follows:
"The claimant, David, Mouat, respectfully showeth as follows:
"I. That on the 16th day of November, 1885, he was appointed a paymaster's clerk in the United States Navy, on
board the United States receiving ship ' Vermont,' subject tb the
laws and regulations governing the United States Navy. That
the said appointment was approved by Capt. A. P. Cooke,
commanding the 'Vermont,' and by D. B. Harmony, Acting
Secretary of the Navy. That on the 19th day of November,
1885, he accepted by letter said appointment, aad on the same
day took an oath to comply with and be obedient to such laws,
regulations, and discipline of the navy as were then in force,
or that might be enacted by Congress, or established by other
competent authority. Copies of the said appointment, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

letter of acceptance, and the oath are hereto annexed as Exhibit iNo. 1.1
"II. That when he received said appointment he was in
Chicago, in the State of Illinois, where the appointment was
addressed. In the said letter of appointment he was directed
to proceed to New York via Washington, D. C. That after
his acceptance of said appointment, and taking the oath aforesaid aild the oath to support the Constitution of the United
States, ard to faithfully discharge the duties of the office-upon
which he is about to enter, he proceeded to New York via
Washington, D. C., and on November 30, having arrived in
New York, reported .at the navy yard for duty as directed.
"III. That under the army mileage table, which has been
adopted by order of the Secretary of the Navy as the correct
table of distances in the United States, and as the standard
for determining the distances travelled by officers in the naval
service, the distance from Chicago to Washington, D. C., is
813 miles, and from Washington to New York 228 miles, the
whole distance travelled uider orders being 1041 miles.'
"IV. That under the act of Congress of June 30, 1876, he
was entitled to be allowed and to receive the sum of eight
cents per mile for this distance, the same being $83.28..
"V. That upon the presentation of his claim for, the
above amount of mileage the same was settled and .allowed
by the Fourth Auditor of the Treasury, but was not allowed
by- the Second Comptroller of the Treasury, and that the
claimant has not received any part thereof.
"That since the passage of the act of June 30th, 186; it has"
been the practice to allow mileage to paymastert' cleris who
were ordered to sea-going vessels upon travel as'performed
within the United States from July 1st, 1876, to February 5th,
1886. It has never been the practice to conside blerks employed by pay officers on shorestations as entitled to.mileage.
"VI. No apignnient or transfer of this.claim, fhor of any
part thereof, nor of any. interest' therein, has bden made; the
"claimant is justly entitled to the amount claimed fn this petiIt does not appear to be necessary to reprint these exhibits.

UNITED STATES v. M1OUAT.
Opinion of the Court.

tion from the United States after allowing all just credits and
set-offs; he is a citizen of the United States, and has at all
times borne true allegiance to the United States, and he
believes the facts stated in the petition to be true.
"Wherefore he prays judgment against the United States in
the sum of $83.28."
To this petition the United States filed a general demurrer,
upon which the Court of Claims rendered a judgment in the
petitioner's favor for $83.23; from which judgment the United
States took this appeal.
-Mr. Attorney General, .Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Howard, and .X?. F. P. Dewees for appellant.
-Mr. Linden -Kent for appellee.
MR. JusrTio

Ymniu

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
in favor of David Mouat, for the sum of $83.28.
The question arises as to the compensation to be paid to
Mouat for travelling expenses while acting as a paymaster's
clerk. The act of Congress of June 16, 1874, making appropriations for the support of the army for the next fiscal year,
has appended to the clause providing for the transportation of
officers and baggage, and for their travelling expenses, the
following:
"Provided, that only actual travelling expenses shall be
allowed to any person holding employment or appointment
under the United States, and all allowances for mileages and
transportation.'in e2cess of the amount actually paid are
.hereby declared illegal; and no credit shall be allowed to
any -of the disbursing officeirs of the United States for payment
or allowances in violation of this provision." 18 Stat. 72, c.
285.
This proviso in its terms is applicable to every person holding employment or appointment under the United States, and
seems to be one of those frequent cases in which Congress in a
general appropriation bill has intentionally enacted some law
VOL. MCxIV-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

reaching far beyond the general scope of the bill itself. ts
obvious purpose was to abolish all payments for travelling
expenses in which a specific allowance per mile was made by
la iv, and to establish the more equitable principle of paying the

actual expenses of persons travelling in the service of the (4overnment. And it is to be observed that the universality of this
principle is securedby the use of the two words "employment
or appointment" in reference to persons serving under the.
Government of the United States.
Two years later, when Congress was making appropriations.
for the naval service, by the act of June 30, 1876, the attention
of that body seemed to be directed to the fact that it included
officers of the navy, as well as all other officers of the Government. That act contains the following provision:
"And so much of the act of June sixteenth, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-four, making appropriations for the.
support of the army for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,.
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, and for otherpurposes, as provides tat 6 nly actual travelling expenses shall,
be allowed to any person holding employment or appointment
under the United States while engaged on public business, asis applicable to officers of the navy so engaged, is hereby
repealed; and the sum of eight cents per mile shall be allowed
such officers while so engaged, in lieu of their actual expenses."
19 Stat. 65, c. 159.
By this declaration Congress did net repeal the whole of that
statute. It did not even repeal it as applicable to the entire
ni1vy, but it selected a certain class of persons in the navy to
whom it should no longer apply, and who should thereafter be
relieved from keeping an account of their'actual expenses while
travelling for the Government, and should be allowed eight
cents per mile in lieu thereof.
The class of persons thus relieved from the effect of the act
of 1874 is designated as "officers of the navy." No other person holdings an employment or appointment under the United
States, although in the navy, was thus relieved from the effect
of that act. As this is a special statute, exempting for particular reasons a certain class of persons from the operation oi-.a

UNITED

STATES v. MOUAT.

Opinion of 'the Court.

general law, which was left to include all other persons in the
employment of or holding an appointment under the Government of the United States, it is obviously proper to confine
that class to. those who are, properly speaking, officers of the
navy. There is nothing in the context, nor in the reason
which may have been supposed to influence Congress in making this exception out of the general law, justifying its application to any other persons than those who are, strictly
speaking, officers of the navy.
What is necessary to constitute a person an officer of the
United States, in any of the various branches of its service,
has 'been very fully considered by this court in Unitedstatesv. Gernaine, 99 U. S. 508. In that. case, it was distinctly
pointed out that, under the Constitution of the United States,
all its officers were appointed by the President, By and with
the consedt of the Senate, or by a court of law, or the head
of a Department; and the heads of the Departments were
defined in that opinion to be what are now called the members of the Cabinet. Unless a person in the service of the
Government, therefore, holds his place by virtue of an appointment by the President, or of one of the courts of justice or
heads of Departments authorized by law to make such an
appointment, he is not, strictly speaking, an officer of the
United States.
We do not see any reason to- review this well established
definition of. what it is'that constitutes such an officer.
In response to this objection to the claimant as an officer of
the United States, it-is alleged that his appointment as paymaster's clerk, as shown by the finding of facts in the Court
of Claims, although made by a paymaster in the United States
Navy, has endorsed on it the approval of D. B. Harmony,
Acting Secretary of the Navy. If there were any statute
which authotized the head of the Navy Department to appoin.t
a paymaster's clerk, the technical argument, that the appointment in this case, "athough actually made by Paymaster
Whitehouse and only approved, by Harmony as Acting Seoretary in a formal way, with the approval of a half dozen other
officers, might still be considered sufficient to call this an

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

appointment by the head of that Department. But there is
no statute authorizing the Secretary of the Navy to appoint a
paymaster's clerk, nor is there any act requiring his approval
of such an appointment, and the regulations of the navy do
not seem to require any such appointment or approval for the
holding of that position.
The claimant, therefore, was not an officer, either appointed
by the President, or under the authority of any law vesting
such appointment in the head of a Department.
Section 1378 of the Revised Statutes enacts that ," all appointments in the pay corps shall be made by the President
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate." Sections
1386, 1387, and 1388 provide that certain classes of paymasters
shall be allowed clerks.
It is obvious from the language of ยง 1378 that the pay corps
is limited to officers commissioned by the President, and that
clerks and others who are not so commissioned do not belong
to the pay corps. The Naval Regulations of 1876, a copy of
which is found in the brief of the appellant, as far as relates
to this matter, provide very fully for these clerks, and the
manner of their appointment, but nowhere is there any mention that it must be approved by the Secretary of the Navy;
on the contrary, it is said that "every officer entitled to a
secretary or clerk may nominate him; but the appointment
or discharge of a clerk by any officer not in command is
subject to the approval of the commanding officer."
From all this it is clear, that neither by the regulations, nor
by the statutes, nor by any constitutional provision, is the
present claimant an officer of the navy. Undoubtedly Congress may have used the word "officer" in some other connections in a more popular sense, as will be shown in the case of
United States v. Hendee, immediately following this, in which
case it will be the "dutyof the court in construing such an act
of Congress to ascertain its true meaning and be governed
accordingly.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is accordingly"reversed, and the ease remanded to that court 'with instruetions to dismiss it.

