OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

November,.1882, he had, in conducting his business as a brewer
in San Francisco, heated water by means of a copper coil filled
with exhaust steam, placed in the water, the water being in a
closed tub containing fifty or sixty barrels, the copper pipe entering-the tub on the side, near the bottom, and forming a coil
inside, and then passing out through the top. It also appears
that a like apparatus was used in the United States, prior to
the issuing of the plaintiff's patent, for the purpose of heating
high wines by means of steam.in a copper c6il, so as to evolve
the alcoholic vapors. There was no patentable invention in
applying to the heating of wine or any other liquor, from the
inside of the cask, the apparatus which had been previously
used to heat another liquid in the same manner.
The case falls directly within the decisions of this court in
Pomace Holder Co. v. -Ferguson,119 U. S. 335, 338, and the
cases there collected, and in Thatcher Heating Co. v. Burtis,
121 U. S. 286.
There having been, therefore, nothing new as a process in
the operation or effect of the heat on the wine, and nothing
patentable in the application of the old apparatus to the heating of the wine,
The decree of the, Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case mtst be remanded to the Circuit Courtfor the Northern District of California,with a direction to dismiss the
bill.

ROBERTS v. BENJAMIN.
ERROR TO ME CIRCUIT COUMT
NORTHER"

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued December 22, 1887. - Decided January 9, 1888.

In an action at law in a Circuit Court of the United States in New York,
an order was made, referring the action to a referee "to determine the
issues therein." He filed his report finding facts and conclusions of
law, and directing that there be a money judgment for the plaintiff.
The defendant applied -to the court for a new trial on a "case and

ROBERTS

v. BENJAMIN.

Citations for Plaintiffs in Error.
exceptions," in which he excepted to three of the conclusions of law.
The court denied the application and directed that'judgment be entered
"1pursuant to the report of the referee," which was done. On a writ of
error from this court: Held, that the only questions open to review here
were, whether there was any error of law in the judgment, on the facts
found by the referee; and that, as the case had not been tried by the
Circuit Court on a filing of a waiver in writing of a trial by jury, this
court could not review any exceptions to the admission or exclusion of
evidence, or any exceptions to findings of fact by the referee, or to his
refusal to find facts as requested.
The defendant agreed to make for the plaintiff 400 tons of iron, and to
ship it about September 1st, or as soon as he could manufacture it, for
$19.50 per ton. He did not deliver any of it at or about that date, nor
as soon as he had manufactured the required amount. The referee
found that the defendant "postponed the execution of the contract
from time to time," and that, on November 7th, he insisted, as conditions
of delivering the iron, on certain provisions not contained in the original
agreement. The plaintiff did not comply with those conditions, and the
iron was not delivered. The referee found that the market value of
such iron, on November 7th, was $34 per ton, and did not find what the
market value of such iron was at any other time. In a suit by the plaintiff against the defendant to recover damages for a breach of the contract, he was allowed $14.50 per ton. On a writ of error: Held,
(1) The postponement of the execution of the contract must be inferred,
from the findings, to have been with the assent of the plaintiff;
(2) The rule of damages applied was proper.
A counterclaim set up by the defendant was, on the facts, properly
disallowed.

-AT law, in contract. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendants
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
Xr. James Breck Perkins, for plaintiffs in error, cited:
Pembroke Iron Co. v. Parsons, 5 Gray, 589; -Morris v.
Levison, 1 C. P. D. 155; Clark v. Baker, 5 Mlet. 452; Sheyherd v. Hiampton, 3 -Wheat. 200 ; Hadley v. Baxendale, 9 Ex.
341; .Yessmore v. Few York Shot and Lead Co., 40 N. Y.
422; 3clHose v. Flm?, '73 Penn. St. 365; Ogle v. Vane,
L. R. 3 Q. B. 272; Hill v. Smith, 34: Vt. 535; llickman v.
Haynes, L. R. 10 C. P. 598; _Exparte Llansamlet Tin Plate
Co., L. R. 16 Eq. 155; iNorton v. Wales, 1 Robertson (N. Y.
Sup. Ct.) 561; Hewitt v. Miller, 61 Barb. 567; Bleuter v.
Wallnaum, 45 Ill. 43; Charnpion v. Joslyn, 44 N. Y. 653;
VOL. CXXIV-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Hutchinson v. M3arket Bank of Troy, 48 Barb. 302; .Manhattan Co. v. _ydig, 4 Johns. 377; S. C.4 Am. Dec. 280; PAiips
v.. elden, 2 Edwd. Ch. 1; Donaldson v. Farnell,93 N. Y.
631; United States v. Hodge, 6 How. 279; Putnam v. Tffltibell, 42 N. Y. 106; JRing v. IDelaware Im. Co., 6 Cranch, 71;
.Dowsv. Exchange Bank, 91 U. S. 618.
Mr.Matthew Hale (with whom was .Ak. Esek Cowen on the
brief), for defendant in error, cited: Paine v. Central Vermont
Railroad,118 U. S. 152, 158; Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604,
606, 607, and cases there cited; Boogher v. Insurance Co., 103
U. S. 90; Tyng v. Grinnell, 92 U. S. 467; Tayloe v. Xerchants' -surance Co., 9 How. 390, 398; .Aaotler v. Frith,6'
Wend. 103; .C. 21 Am. Dec. 262; Jfiller v. Life Insurance
Co., 12 Wall. 285, 300, 301; Ryan v. Carter,93 U. S. 78, 81;
United States v. Dawson, 101 U. S. 569; Stanley v. Albany,
121 U. S. 535, 54T7, 548; Ogle v.Earl Vane, L. R. 2 Q. B. 275"
S. C. affirmed, L. R. 3 Q. B. 272; Hi , v. Smith, 34 Yt. 535,
547; JVewton v. Wales, 3 Robertson (N. Y. Sup. Ct.) 453;
IHeth.erington v. emp, 4 Camp. 192; Dana v. ifemble, .19
Pick. 112.
AIR. JuSTIOE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York, by
Henry M. Benjamin, a citizen of Wisconsin, against Henry C.
Roberts and Archibald S. Clarke, citizens of New York, composing the firm of H. C. Roberts & Co., doing business at
Rochester, New York, to recover damages for the alleged failure of the defendants to deliver to the plaintiff a quantity of
iron, on a contract for its sale by the former to the latter.
The complainant alleged that at the time of the breach of
the contract by the defendants the market value of iron of
the kind and quality agreed to be sold was much greater than
the contract price of the iron, and that, if the iron had been
delivered pursuant to the contract, the plaintiff could have
sold it at a large profit.
The defendants, m their answer, besides denying any liability

ROBERTS v. BENJAMIN.
Opinion of the Court.

to the plaintiff, set up by way of counterclaim (1) that the
plaintiff was indebted to them in the sum of $796.99, for coal
and iron sold and delivered by them to him, and that, as R.part
of the contract for the sale of the iron upon which the action
was brought, it was a condition that the plaintiff should pay
to the defendants the $796.99, which he had not done; (2)
that, on the sale and delivery to the plaintiff by the defend!
ants of certain coal, the plaintiff had claimed various items of
shortage in the .coal, for which the defendants had. allowed to
him $1926.73, that they had afterwards ascertained'that the
statements of the plaintiff as to the shortage were untrue, and
that they were ready to deliver the iron upon the payment to
them by the plaintiff of the $1926.73.
The reply of the plaintiff admitted an indebtedness to the
defendants of 8112.73, on account of the item of $796.99
claimed in the answer, and, in regard to the $1926.73, it alleged
that the items of shortage had been allowed and agreed to by
the defendants.
After issue was joined, it was stipulated in writing by the
parties, that the action be referred to a person named, "as
sole referee, to hear, try, and determine the issues therein."
Upon this stipulation, an order was entered by the court that
the action be referred to such person, "to determine the issues
therein."
The referee filed his report as follows:
"I, the undersigned, the referee to whom were referred the
issues in the action above entitled, do respectfully report that
I have heard the allegations and proofs of the respective
parties, and the arguments of counsel thereon, and, after due
deliberation, report the following as my findings of facts:
"First. The plaintiff is a citizen of the State of Wisconsin,
and resides in the city of Milwaukee, in said State, and the
defendants, on and prior to the 17th day of July, 1879, were,
have since then continued to be, and now are, citizens of the
State of New York, residing at Rochester, in said State, and
partners in business in said city, under the firm name of H. 0.
Roberts & Co.
"'Second. On or about the 17th day of July, 1 79, the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Cipinion of the Court.

plaintiff inquired of the said defendants, by telegraph, their
lowest price for four hundred tons of number two iron and
four hundred tons of number one iron, or one cargo of each,
delivered afloat at Milwaukee; to which, on the 92d day of
July, 1879, the said defendants replied by telegram, stating
the price at nineteen dollars and fifty cents cash, per .ton, for
number one foundry iron delivered afloat at Milwaukee, and
declining to put any price or to make any agreement for the
sale of nunber two iron,'and in a letter written on the following day promised and agreed to ship a cargo of the iron about
the first day of September, 1879, if the plaintiff should accept
the offer.
"On the 2.5th of July, 1879, the plaintiff, by letter, -accepted
the offer of a cargo of the iron, at $19.50 per ton afloat at
Milwaukee, provided that the plaintiff should be allowed the
,deduction from the price per ton, if freight could be had for
less than one dollar per ton; and also provided that the terms
should he, instead of cash, a credit of four months, with interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum after thirty days.
"The defendants, by letter dated July 28th, 1879, accepted
the modification of the terms and conditions of sale, and
agreed to ship the iron, about September 1st, 1879, or as soon
as they could manufacture it.
"Third. The term ' cargo,' employed in this correspondence,
was understood by the plaintiff and the defendants to mean a
cargo of four hundred tons.
"Fourth. The contract for the delivery of the cargo of iron
had no relation to or connection with any other dealings between the parties, and the performance thereof by the defendants was not conditioned upon the performance of any act on
the part of the plaintiff other than as stated in the preceding
findings.
"Fifth. The defendants did not deliver the iron or any part
of it to the plaintiff on or about the time specified in their
offer, nor did they deliver it as soon as they had manufactured
the required amount. They postponed the execution of the
contract from time to time, and finally insisted, as a condition
of the delivery of the iron, that the plaintiff should pay certain

ROBERTS v. BENJAMIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

outstanding indebtedness on other dealings, which the defendants claimed to be due to them from the plaintiff ; and also,
as a further condition, that payment for the iron should be
made upon delivery, that shipment should be by rail instead of
by boat, and in instalments of one hundred tons per month,
instead of one cargo of the full amount, and that the plaintiff
should pay, in addition to the contract price, one dollar per
ton for extra freight. The plaintiff did not comply with these
conditions, and the iron has never been delivered.
"Sixth. Atthe time when the letter containing these conditions was sent by the defendants .to the plaintiff, November
7th, 1879, the market value of number one foundry iron of the
kind manufactured by, the defendants was thirty-four dollars
per ton afloat in Milwaukee.
"Seventh.' From May, 1878, to November, 1878, the defendants delivered to the plaintiff four hundred and thirty-five
tons of iron, of the value of seventeen dollars per ton, to be
accounted for by the plaintiff to the defendants at that price.
The plaintiff has accounted and paid for all of this iron except
-6 1979-2240 tons, for which amount payment has not been
made, nor has the iron been returned to the defendants. A
statement of this account was submitted by the defendants to
the plaintiff, showing that there was due and unpaid thereon
$117.02, on the 18th day of June, 1879.
"Eighth. Between April 20th, 1876, and October 5th, 1878,
the defendants sold and delivered to the plaintiff a quantity of
coal, a statement of the weights and prices 'of which was rendered by the defendants to the plaintiff. Upon receipt of the
cargoes at Milwaukee, the coal was weighed at the dock by
the plaintiff, and thereafter he submitted to the defendants a
statement of the weights and demanded a deduction on account
of shortage in weight, which he claimed to exist. The defendants assented to and allowed the claim for shortage, and the
plaintiff paid the balance of the account in full. The claim for
•shortage was made by the plaintiff in good faith, upon the
basis of weights taken at his dock, and the defendants did not
in any manner object to the plaintiff's claim until after he had
insisted upon the performance of the contract upon which this
action was brought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"Ninth. In the months of October and November, 1878,
the defendants sold and delivered to the plaintiff coal at certain prices, which, with the interest added to the day of the
adjustment of the account, April 16th, 1879, amounted to the
sum of twenty thousand three hundred and four dollars and
seventy-one cents. Of this amount the plaintiff paid to the
defendants sums of money from time to time, which, with interest to the said 16th day of April, 1879, amounted to nineteen
thousand six hundred and seventy-eight dollars and ninety-four
cents. 'A statement of said account was made by the defendants to the plaintiff, showing a balance due from the latter to
the former on said day, amounting to six hundred and twentyfive dollars and seventy-seven cents. This balance has not,
nor has any part of it, been paid by the plaintiff to the defendants.
"Upon these facts I do respectfully report as my conclusions
of law:
"First. The plaintiff is entitled to recover-from the defendants th difference between the contract price of the four
hundred tons of iron which were to be delivered about the
first of September, 1879, and the market value of the said iron
afloat in Milwaukee, on the 7th day of November, 1879, when
the contract was finally broken by the said defendants, amounting to the sum of five thousand eight hundred dollars, with
interest from November 7th, 1879, to the date of this report.
"Second. The plaintiff is indebted to the defendants in the
sum of one hundred and seventeen dollars and two cents,
with interest from June 18, 1879, for the 6 1979-2240 tons of
iron as stated in the seventh finding of fact, amounting, at the
date of this report, to the sum of one hundred and forty-eight
dollars and twenty cents ($148.20), and they are entitled to
have the said amount offset against the amount otherwise due
from them to the plaintiff, as stated in the first conclusion of
law.
"Third. The plaintiff is indebted to the defendants in the
sum of six hundred and twenty-five dollars and seventy-seven
cents, with interest from April 16th, 1879, for the balance of
the account for coal sold to the plaintiff, as stated in the ninth

ROBERTS v. BENJAMIN.
Opinion of the Court.
s

,finding of facts, amounting, at the date of this report, to the
sum of seven hundred and ninety-nine dollars, and they are
entitled to have the said amount offset against the amount
otherwise due from them to the plaintiff, as stated in the first
conclusion of law.
"Fourth. The defendants have not established their right
to reopen the account between them and the plaintiff for coal
delivered' from April 20th, 1876, and October 5th, 1878, as
stated in the eighth finding of facts, and they are therefore
concluded by the settlement and adjustment made in that
respect, and not entitled to the counterclaim in that behalf
stated in their answer herein.
"Fifth. The plaintiff is entitled to judgment against the
defendants for the sum of six thousand two hundred and sixtyfour dollars an'd twelve cents ($6264.12), with interest thereon
from the date of this report, with the costs of this action, and
judgment for that amount is accordingly directed."
The defendants moved the court for a new trial upon a
case and exceptions," made according to the practice in the
State of New York, in which they excepted to the first, fourth,
and fifth conclusions of law found by the referee, but the
motion was denied, and the court thereupon made an order
denying it, and directing "that judgment be entered herein
pursuant to the report of the referee with costs." Thereupon,
judgment was entered for the plaintiff for the $6264.12, and
•$192.08 interest from the date of the report, and $399.70 costs,
amounting in all to $6855.90. The defendants have brought
a writ of error to review the judgment.
The item of recovery allowed to the plaintiff by the referee
was for 400 tons of iron at $14.50 per ton, being the difference
between $19.50, the contract price, and $34, the market value
on November 7, 1879.
The only questions open to review here are, whether there
was any error of law in the judgment rendered by the Circuit
Court upon the facts found by the referee. The judgment
having been entered "pursuant to the report of the referee,"
the facts found by him are conclusive in this court. Thornton
v. Carson, 7 Cranch, 596, 601; Alexandriq Canal v. Swann,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887
Opinion of the Court.

5 How. 83; York and Oumberland Railroad v. Myers, 18
How. 246; Heckers v. Fowler, 2 Wall. 123; Bond v. D,,stin,
112 U. S. 604, 606, 607; Paine v Central Vermont Railroad,
118 U. S. 152, 158.
The second and third findings of fact show that there was
a complete, valid, and binding contract made between the
parties, which was not void for uncertainty, or for any other
reason. It is expressly found that the term "cargo,5 employed
in the correspondence between the parties by whiich the contract was entered into, was understood by both of them to
mean a cargo of 400 tons. It is also expressly found that the
contract for the delivery of the iron had no relation to or connection with-any. other dealing between the parties, and that
the performance thereof by the defendants was not conditioned upon the performance of any act on the part of the
plaintiff, other than as stated in the second and third findings
of fact.
It is contended by the defendants that the referee erred in
taking the $34 per ton, the market value of the iron on
November 7, 1879, as the measure of damages, instead of the
market price in September, when the iron was to be delivered,
and when, it is alleged, the breach of the contract occurred.
But, although the defendants did not deliver any of the iron
on or about September 1, 1879, nor as soon as they had manufactured the required amount, yet it appears from the findings
'of fact, considered together, that the breach of the contract
did not take place until November 7, 1879. The statement
in the findings, that the defendants "postponed the execution
of the contract from time to time," and finally insisted upon
certain requirements as conditions of the delivery of the iron,
must be accepted as a statement that the postponement of the
execution of the contract from time to time down to November 7, 1879, was with the assent of the plaintiff. From the
fact that, as late as November 7, 1879, the defendants were
naming conditions on which they would deliver the iron,',it
must be inferred that the question of delivery was still regarded by both parties as an open one, and that the mere
failure to deliver the iron by the 1st of September, 1879, dr

ROBERTS v. BENJAMIN.
Opinion of the Court.

even thereafter as soon as the required amount had been
manufactured, -Fas not regarded by either party as a breach
of the contract. It was in the power of the defendants, instead of merely postponing the execution of the contract from
time to time, to have absolutely refused to perform it, if they
found that the price of iron was rising in the market, as is
alleged in argument. But it is not found as a fact by the
referee that there was any advance in the market value of
the iron in question between September 1, 1879, or the time
the iron was manufactured, and November 7, 1879, nor is
the price of the iron in the market found as a fact, at any
other date than November 7, 1879.
On the findings of fact, the rule of damages applied to this
case was in accordance with the authorities. Benjamin on
Sales, § 872; 2 Sedgwick on Damages, 7th ed., 134, note.b;
Ogle v. Earl Vane, L. R. 2 Q. B. 275, and in the Exchequer
Chamber, L. R. 3 Q. B. 272; Hiokman v. Ilayes, L. R. 10
C. P. 598; Hll v. S'nih, 34 Vermont, 535, 547; Nfewton v.
Wales, 3 Robertson (N. Y. Sup. Ct.) 453.
It is also alleged for error, that the referee erred in refusing
to open the account between the parties, and to allow the
defendants' counterclaim for $1926.73, as wrongfully charged
to them by the plaintiff for shortages on coal. The finding of
the referee is, that the plaintiff, after weighing the coal, submitted to the defendants a statement of the weights, and
asked a deduction on account of shortage; that the defendants assented to and allowed the claim; that the plaintiff paid
the balance of the account in full; that the claim for shortage
was made by the plaintiff in good faith, upon the basis of
weights taken at his dock; and that the defendants did not in
any manner object to the plaintiff's claim until after he had
insisted upon the performance of the contract on which this
action was brought. On these facts, the referee found, as a
conclusion of law, that the defendants had not established
their right to reopen the account for the coal in question;
that they were concluded by the settlement and adjustment
made in that respect; and that they were not entitled to the
counterclaim in that behalf stated in their answer.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

The answer alleged, in respect to such counterclaim, that
the statements of the weight of the coal made by the plaintiff
to the defendants were false, and were so known to be by the
plaintiff, and that the amount which he had received from the,
defendants for shortage was obtained from them by his unlawful act. No facts in support of this allegation of the
answer are found by the referee, and his conclusion of law
was correct.
This case not having been tried by the Circuit Court on the
filing of a waiver in writing of a trial by jury, this com't cannot on this writ of error review any of the exceptions taken
to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or any of the exceptions to the findings of fact by the referee, or to his refusal
to find facts as requested. Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604,1
606, 607; Paine v. Central ermnont Railroad,118 U. S. 152,
158.
T7e~judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

LANGDON v. SHERWOOD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted December 12, 3887.-Decided January 9,1888.

Section 429 of the Code of Nebraska, which provides that when a judgment or decree shall be rendered in any court of that State for a conveyance of real estate, and the party against whom it is rendered does not
comply therewith within the time therein named, the judgment or decree
• shall have the same operation and effect, and be as available, as if the
conveyance" "had been executed conformably to such judgment or decree" is a valid act; and such a decree or judgment, rendered in the
Circuit Court of the United States respecting real estate in Nebraska
operates to transfer title to the real estate which is the subject of the
judgment or decree, upon the failure of the party ordered to convey to
comply with the order.
An action of ejectment cannot be maintained in the courts of the United
States for the possession of land within the State of Nebraska on an
entry made with a register and receiver, notwithstanding the provision in

