UNITED STATES v. HENDEE.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. HENDEE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF C.LAIMS.
Submitted December 14, 1887.-Decided January 23, 1888.

A paymaster's clerk in the navy is an officer of the navy within the meaning of the provision in the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 473, c. 97, r,specting the longevity pay of officers and enlisted men in the army or
navy

THis was an appeal from a judgment rendered against the
United States in the Court of Claims. The petitioner, in hispetition to that court, set forth his claim as follows:
"To the honorable the Judges of the Court of Claims:
"The petition of George E. Hendee respectfully shows to
your honors that he is a citizen of the United States and an
officer of the navy thereof, to wit, a paymaster, and that his
military history is as follows:
"Paymaster's clerk, October 1861, to December, 1862, and
from August, 1863, to February, 1864; acting assistant paymaster, 25 March, 1864; passed assistant paymaster, 23 July,
1866; paymaster, 27 February, 1869.
"Your petitioner further says that the lowest grade having
graduated pay held by him since last entering the service is,
under the act of July 15th, 1870 (Rev. Stat. § 1556), that of
paymaster, and that the pay of said grade is as follows:

IAt sea.
1st 5 years after date of commission

.

.

2d " "
3d
"

•

"

"

"

•
•

After 20"

"

'

..

"

...

"
C

.

.

J

1
1I
"th
.

On aore.

On leave.

2,800

2,400

2,000

3,20.9
3,500
3,700

2,800
3,200
3,600

4,200

4,000

1

2,400
2,600
2,800

3,000

"Your petitioner says that he is, under the provisions of the
acts of August 5th, 1882, and March 3d, 1883 (22 Stat. 287
ard 473), entitled to have credit given him upon his said grade
of paymaster for all of his service as above stated, prior to the

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

date of his commission as a paymaster, to wit: 6 years, 5
months, and 26 days, and that he is entitled to the difference'
of pay, resulting from such credit, to wit :'to the sum of $-,
all of which remains due and unpaid, for which amount he
asks judgment."
The following were the facts as found by the Court of
Claims:
"I. The claimant was, on the 3d of March, 1883, and still
is, a paymaster in the navy. Previously thereto he had
served in the navy as follows: Paymaster's clerk from October 10, 1861, to November 30, 1862, and from October 30,
"1863, to March 5, 1864; acting assistant paymaster, from April
26, 1864, to July 23, 1866 ; passed assistant paymaster, from
July 23, 1866, to February 27, 1869; paymaster, from February 27, 1869.
"II. Under the provisions of the act'of March 3, 1883,
c. 97, 22 Stat. 472, 473, relating to the credit to officers
for length of service, there is due, and unpaid, the claimant
the sum of $8178.01, if he be entitled to have credited to him
under said act the time he served as paymaster's clerk as
aforesaid, and the sum of $6313.77 if he be not entitled to be
so credited.
"III. The practice of the Navy Department has not been
uniform as.to th6 classification of paymasters' clerks and their
designation as officers or otherwise, but in several regulations,
orders, and official documents they have been designated as
officers. The following are copies of official orders:
"'[General Order 153.]
"NA.VY

DEPART=ENT,

"' April 18, 1870.
"'Secretaries to commanders-in-chief, clerks to commanding office.s, and clerks to paymasters are officers of the navy,
within the meaning of the law, and are therefore entitled,
under orders from their appointing officers, to 10 cents per
mile for travel performed within the United States. .
Clerks .inthe navy pay offices are civil employ6s, and not
entitled to mileage. .

UNITED STATES v. HENDEE.
Statement of the Case.

"Upon cnange of the law substituting actual expenses for
nileage the following order was issued:
"'[General Order 193.]
LAVY DEPARTMENT,

"Alnril 5, 1875.

"'General Order No. 153, of April 18, 1870, is hereby
annulled. When an officer of the navy, who is entitled to a
secretary or clerk, appoints him from civil life and desires him
to report for duty at any given place, the Department, if it
approves thereof, will issue the requisite order on receiving
official notice of his appointment and request for such orders.
"' All officers, includingsecretaries and clerks, serving on
board ships in commission,-will receive orders which involve
travelling expenses from their commanding officer, senior officers present, commander-in-chief, or from the Department, as
the case may be.'
"Paymasters' clerks are charged with the 20 cents per
month hospital dues- imposed by Revised Statutes, § 4808,
and the following -is a copy of an official letter on the
subject on file in the office of the Fourth Auditor from the
Secretary of the Navy:
-"

NAvy DEPART.MENT,

" B ebruary 19,1882.
"Sir: Your letter of the 21st ultimo, inclosing a coinnunication from Passed Assistant Paynaster J. W . Jordan, U. S.
Navy, in regard to pay cleiks at navy yards and naval stations,
has been received.
"In reply you are informed that pay clerks; appointed under
authority of §§ 1380, 1387, and 1388, Revised Statutes, and in
the manner prescribed by the navy regulations, ard entitled
to medical attendance, and in cases of necessity, to hospital
treatment. Twenty cents per monthshould be deducted from
their pay to 1)e applied to the fund for navy hospitals, as is
required by § 4808, Revised Statutes.
"The letter of Passed Assistant Paymaster Jordan, with a

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

copy of U.-S. Navy Regulation Circulars, Nos. 21 and 29, are
inclosed.
"Very respectfully,
"WM. H. Hui-,
"cretary of the Ztravry.
"HoN. CHAS. BEAnDSLEY,

"Fourth Auditor."
On these findings the Court of Claims gave judgment for
the claimant, from which judgment the United States took
this appeal.
-2r. Attorney General, Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Howard and 21r. F. P. ]Dewees for appellant.
MrM. John Paul Jones and MAr. Robert B. Lines for appellee.
ML JusTIcE

MILLER

delivere. he opinion of the court.

George E. Hendee brought suit in the Court of Claims for
compensation as a paymaster in the navy beyond what he
had been allowed and paid for his services He recovered a
judgment in that court for the sum of $8178.01, of which
$6313.77 was not disputed. The disposition of the remainder,
of 81864.24, depends upon whether the period of time from
October 10, 1861, to November 30, 1862, during which he
served as a paymaster's clerk, should be counted for the purpose of increasing his salary under the longevity provisions of
the statutes.
This amount the accounting officer refused to allow, upon
the ground that a paymaster's clerk is neither an officer nor
an enlisted man in the navy, and as a consequence the time
of an officer who has been such a clerk is not entitled to be
computed under the provisions of the act of March 3, 1883, on
that subject. That statute provides as follows:
"And all officers of the navy shall be credited with the
actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men
in the regular or volunteer army or navy, or both, and shall
receive all the benefits of such actual service in all respects in

UNITED

STATES v. HENDEE.

Opinion of the Court.

the same manner as if all said service had been continuous and
in the regular navy in the lowest grade having graduated pay
held by such officer since last entering the service." 22
Stat. 473, c. 97.
In the opinion of the Chief Justice, rendered in the Court
of Claims, the single issue raised is the question of law.
whether or not a paymaster's clerk is an officer of the navy
within the meaning of said act.
We have just decided, in the case of United States v.
.foTuat, ante, 303, that a paymaster's clerk is not, in the constitutional sense of the word, an officer of the United States;
but we added also that Congress may have used the word
"officer" in a less strict sense in some other connections,
and in the passage of certain statutes might have intended a
more popular signification to be given.to that term. And in
regard to the act of 1883, we think that its proper construction requires that the officer, when subsequently coming to
compute what increase shall be made to his statutory salary by
reason of his previous service, has a right to count other service than that rendered in the character of an officer, as defined
by the Constitution of the United States. Its language is.
that "all officers of the navy shall be credited with the actual
time they may have served as officers or enlisted men,"
The claimant here is an officer of the navy, and -is, therefore, to be credited with the actual time that he served as an
officer or enlisted man in the rcgular or volunteer army or
navy, or both. • We think the words "officers or enlisted men
in the regular or volunteer army or navy, or both," was intended to include all men regularly in service in the army or
navy, and that the expression "officers or enlisted men" is not
to be construed distributively as requiring that a person should
be an enlisted man, or an officer nominated and appointed by
the President, or by the head of a Department, but. that it was
meant to include all men in service, either by enlistment or
regular appointment in the army or navy. We are of opinion
that the word "officer" is used in that statute in the inorgeneral- sense which would include a paymaster's clerk; that
this vas the intention of Congress in its enactment, and that

O6TOBE R TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the collocation of the words means this, especially when it is
added that they "shall receive all the benefits of such actual
service in all respects and in the same manner as if said service
had been continuous and in the regular navy."
In Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S. 13, the court' said: "The place
of paymaster's clerk is an important one in the machinery of
thenavy. Their appointment niust be approved by the commander of the ship. Their acceptance and agreement to submit to the'laws aud regulations for the government and discipline of the navy must be in writing, and filed in the Department. They must take an oath, and bind themselves to serve
until discharged. The discharge must be by the appointing
power, and approved in the same manner as the appointment.
They are required to wear the uniform of the service; they
have a fixed rank; they are upon the pay roll, and are paid
accordingly. They may also become entitled to a pension and
to bounty land. . . . If these officers are not in the naval
service, it may well be asked who are."
In the case of Bogart, who was brought before Judge Sawyer of the Circuit Court on a writ of habeacs co:pus, that judge
took the same liberal view in regard to the position of a paymaster's clerk in the navy; holding that as an officer of the
navy he was subject to be tried by a court martial, and accordingly remanded him to the custody of that court for trial. In
the opinion he says: "Was the petitioner, while a clerk of a
paymaster in the navy, on duty in the manner before stated, a
person in the naval service of the United States within the
meaning of this act? It is contended on his behalf that he was
not. But upon this point we entertain no doubt. He was not
merely an employ6 or servant of the paymaster, but on the
contrary, as we have seen from the regulations of the navy,
set out in the statement of facts, he was an officer of the navy."
2 Sawyer, 396.
In the opinion of Chief Justice Richardson, delivered in the
Court of Claims in the case now under review, the same view
was ably argued, and while we do not concede that a paymaster's clerk is, for all purposes and in the general sense of that
term, an officer of the navy, we believe that within the mean-

UNITED STATES v. FRERICHS..
Opinion of the Court.

ing- of the' statute now under consideration, 'providing for
increase of pay to officers of the navy according to length of
service, that it was the purpose of the framers of that act to
include service rendered as a paymaster's clerk in the navy.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore 'afrmd

UNITED STATES v. FRERICHS.
APPEAL. FOM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 5,1888.- Decided January 23, 1888.

Under § 3220 of the Revised Statutes, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is authorized to pay to the plaintiff in a judgment recovered against
a collector of internal revenue, for damages for a seizure of property
for an alleged violation of the internal revenue laws, made by the collector under the direction of a revenue agent connected with the office of -the
supervisor of internal revenue, the amount of such judgment, and is not
restricted to the payment of such amount to the collector.

T-HIs was an appeal from the Court of-' 1i ns from a judgment against the United States for the sum of $10,130.31.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Attorney Genera] and -Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Howard for appellant.
_ 'e.
Edward Salomon for appellee.
MR.JusTicE

BLAToiCFoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the United States from a judgment of
the Court of Claims, awarding to Frederick Frerichs a recovery of the sum of $10,130.31. The case was decided by that
court on a demurrer to the petition, alleging that sufficient
facts were not set forth to constitute a cause of action. The
demurrer was overruled, and the defendants declined to plead
further.
The facts set forth in the petition are in substa ee as

