OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

KELLY v. HEDDEN.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 13, 14,1887. -Decided

January 9, 1888.

The distinction between this case and Whitney v. Robertson, ante, 190, does
not warrant a different disposition of it.

THIS was an action to recover back duties alleged to have
been illegally exacted. It was atrgued with Whitey v. Rolertson, ante, 190.

Mr. A. J. Willard and -Mr. . . Tremain for plaintiff in
error. .Mr. .. V. Tyler was with them on their brief.
Mr. Solicitor General for defendant in error.
:MR.

JUSTICE

FiEiD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case, except in one particular, presents the -same questions considered and determined in Whitney v. Robertson.
The exceptional circumstance is this, that the act of 1883,
under which the duties were levied and collected, to recover
which the action is brought, declares that nothing in it "shall
in any way change or impair the force and effect of any treaty
between the United States and any other government, or any
laws passed in pursuance of or for the execution of any such
-,treaty, so long as such treaty shall remain in force in respect
of the subjects embraced in this aet." 22 Stat. 525. -The
most that can be conceded to this provision is, that it leaves a
previous treaty relating to the same subjects unaffected by the
act. Our observations in the former case, as to the effect of
subsequent legislation in conflict with the stipulations of a
treaty, are therefore inapplicable to the present case. But all
other considerations as to specific exemptions in return for
special concessions remain, in answer to the alleged contention

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 2.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiffs that articles, the produce and manufacture of
the island of San Domingo should be admitted free of duty
hecause similar articles, the produce and manufacture of the
Hawaiian Islands, are thus admitted.
Judgment5 affirmed.

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 2.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO
Argued December 20, 1557. -Decided

January 16, 1888.

The proceeding, authorized by the statutes of Colorado, for condemning
land to public use for sclool purposes, is a suit at law, within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States and the acts of Congress
conferring jurisdiction upon the courts of the United States, which may
be removedinto a Circuit Court of the United States from a state court.

Tuns was an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court,
remanding a cause to the state court from which it had been
removed. The cae is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Walter H. Sith for plaintiff in error. -Mr. A. .
Britton and -Mr.A. B. Browne were with him on the brief.
.k. Sarnuel.P. Rose and Xr. F. W: Owers also filed a brief
for same.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mm.

JUsTICE MATTEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

On June 2, 1884, School District No. 2 in the County of
Lake' and State of Colorado fied a petition in the county
court of that county against IR.S. Searl, the owner of a certain lot of land in the city of Leadville, therein described, for
the purpose of condemning the same to public use for school
purposes. and praying that the amount to be paid as compensation therefor should be assessed according to the statute in

