SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Syllabus.

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREE COURT OF THE STATE OF ALALBAMA.
Argued January4,1888.-Decided January30, 1888.

The legislature of Alabama enacted a law entitled "an act to require locomotive engineers in this State to be examined and licensed by a board to
be appointed for that purpose,"' in which it was provided that it should be,
"unlawful for the engineer of any railroad train in this State to drive
or operate or, engineer any train of cars or engine upon the main line or
roadbed of any railroad in this State which is used for the transportation of persons, passengers or freight, without first undergoing an examination and obtaining a license as hereinafter provided." The statute
then provided for the creation-of a board of examiners and prescribed
their duties, and authorized them to issue licenses and imposed a license
fee, and then enacted" that any engineer violating the provisions of this
act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than fifty nor more than five hundred dollars, and may also be
sentenced to hard labor for the county for not more than six months."
Plaintiff in error was an engineer in the service of the Mobile and Ohio
Railroad Company. His duty was to "drive, operate, and engineer" a
locomotive engine drawing a passenger train on that road, regularly plying in one continuous trip between Mobile in Alabama and Corinth in
Mississippi, and vice versa, 60 miles of which trip was in Alabama, and
265 in Mississippi. He never" drove, operated, or engineered" a locomotive engine hauling cars from one point to another point, exclusively within
the State'of-Alabaina. After the statute of Alabama took effect, lie continued to perform such regular duties without taking out the license required by that act. He was proceeded against for a violation of the
statute, and was committed to jail to answer the charge. He petitioned '
a state court for a Writ of habeas corpus upon the ground that he was
employed in interstate commerce, and that the statute, so far as it applied to him, was a regulation of commerce among the States, and repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. The writ was refused,
and the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama on appeal affirmed that
judgment. Held:
(1) That the statute of Alabama was not, in its nature, a regulation
of commerce, even when applied to such a case as this;
(2) That it was an act of legislation within the scope of the powers reserved to the States, to regulate the relative rights and duties of
persons within their respective territorial jurisdictions, being intended to operate so as to secure safety. of persons and property
for the public;
(3) That so far as it affected transactions of commerce among the States,
VOL. CX3UV-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
It did so only indirectly, incidentally and remotely, and not so as
to burden or impede them, and that, in the particulars in which it
touched those transactions at all, it was not in conflict with any
express enactment of Congress on the subject, nor contrary to any
intention of Congress to be presumed from its silence;
(4) That so far as it was alleged to contravene the Constitution of the
United States, the statute was a valid law.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This is a writ of error bringing into review a judgment of
theSupreme Court of the State of Alabama, affirming a judgment of the bity court of Mobile. The proceeding in the
latter court was upon a writ of habeas corpus sued out by the
plaintiff in error, seeking his discharge from the custody of
the sheriff of Mobile County, in that State, under a commitment by a justice of the peace upon the charge of handling,
engineering, driving, and operating an engine pulling a passenger train upon the Mobile and Ohio Railroad used in transporting passengers within the county of Mobile, and State of
Alabama, without having obtained a license from the board of
examiners appointed by the governor of said State, in accordance with the provisions of an act entitled "An act to require
locomotive engineers in this State to be examined and licensed
by a board to be appointed by the governor for that purpose,"
approved February 28, 1887, and after more than three months
had elapsed from the date of appointment and qualification of
said board. The plaintiff in error, upon complaint, was committed by the examining magistrate to the custody of the
sheriff to answer an indictment for that alleged offence. The
ground of the application for discharge upon the writ of habeas
coypus in. the- city court of :Mobile was, that the act of the
General Assembly of the State of Alabama, for the violation
of which he was held, was in contravention of that clause of
the Constitution of the United States which confers upon Congress power to regulate commerce among the States.
The facts, as they appeared upon the hearing upon the
return of the writ, are as follows: The petitioner at the time
of his arrest on July 16, 1887, within the county of Mobile,
was a locomotive engineer in the service of the MXobile and

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Statement of the Case.

Ohio Railroad Company, a corporation owning and operating
a line of railroad forming a continuous ,and unbroken line of
railway from 2obile, in the State of Alabama, to St. Louis, in
th3 State of Missouri, and as such was then engaged in handling, operating, and driving a locomotive engine, attached to a
regular passenger train on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad,
within the county and State, consisting of " postal car carrying the United States mail to all parts of the Union, a Southern express car containing perishable freight, money packages,
and other valuable-merchandise destined to Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, and other States, passenger coaches, and a Pullman palace sleeping car occupied by passengers to be transported by said train to the States of Mississippi, Tennessee,
and Kentucky. The petitioner's run, as a locomotive engineer
in the service of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, was
regularly from the city of Mobile, in the State of Alabama, to
Corinth, in the State of Mississippi, sixty miles of which run
was in the State of Alabama, and two hundred and sixty-five
miles in the State of Mississippi; and he never handled and
operated an engine pulling a train of cars whose destination
was a point within the State of Alabama when said, engine
and train of cars started from a point within that State. His
train started at Mobile and ran through without change of
coaches or cars on one continuous trip. His employment as
locomotive engineer in the service of said company also required him to take charge of and handle, drive, and operate
an engine drawing a passenger train which started from St.
Louis, in the State of Missouri, destined to the city of Mobile,
in the State of Alabama, said train being loaded with merchandise and occupied by passengers destined to Alabama and
other States; this engine and train he took charge of at
Corinth, in M ississippi, and handled, drove, and operated the
same along and over the Mobile and Ohio Railroad through
the States of Mississippi and Alabama to the city of Mobile. It
frequently happened that he was ordered by the proper officers
of the said comnpauy to handle, drive, and operate an engine
drawing a, passenger train loa'ded with merchandise, carrying
the United States mail, and occupied by passengers, from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

city of Mobile, in Alabama, to the city of St. Louis, in Missouri, being allowed two lay-overs; said train passing through
the States of Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Illinois, and
into the State of Missouri.,
It was admitted that the petitioner had not obtained the
license required by the act of the General Assembly of the
State of Alabama of February 28, 1881, and had not applied
to the board of examiners, or any of its members, for such
license, and that more than three months had elapsed since
the appointment and qualification of said board of examiners,
the same having been duly appointed by the governor of the
State under the provisions of said act.
The statute of Alabama, the validity of which is thus drawn
in question, as being contrary to the Constitution of. the United
States, and the validity of which has been affirmed by the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama now in review,
is as follows:
"AN AcT to Aequire locomotive engineers in this state to be
examined and licensed by a board to be appointed by the
governor for that purpose.
"SECTON 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
Alabama, That it shall be unlawful for the engineer of any
railroad train in this state to drive or operate or engineer any
train of cars or engine upon the main line or road-bed of
any railroad in this state which is used for the transportation
of persons, passengers, or freight, without first undergoing an
examination and obtaining a license as hereifiafter provided.
"SEc. 2. Be itfurther enacted, That before any locomotive
engineer shall operate or drive an engine upon the main line
or road-bed of any railroad in this state used for the transportation of persons or freight, he shall apply to the board of
examiners hereinafter provided for in this act, and be examined by said board or by two or more members thereof, in
practical mechanics, and concerning his knowledge of operat"ing a locemotive engine and his competency as an engineer.
. Sec. 3. Be itfurther enacted, That. upon. the examination
of any engineer as provided in this act, if the applicant is

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Statement of the Case.

found competenthe shall, upon payment of five dollars, receive a license, which shall be signed by each member of the
board, and which shall set forth the fact that the said engineer has been duly examined as required by law, and is authorized to engage as an engineer on any of the railroads in
this state.
"SEc. 4. Be itfurther enacted, That in addition to the examination provided for in section two (2), it shall be the duty
of said board of examiners, before issuing the license provided
for in this act, to inquire into the character and habits of all
engineers applying for license; and in no case shall a license
be issued if the applicant is foimd to be of reckless or intemperate habits.
"SEo. 5. Be it further enacted, That any engineer who,.
after procuring a license as provided in this act, shall at any.
time be guilty of any act of recklessness, carelessness, or negligence while running an engine by which any damage to
persons., or' property is done, or who shall within six hours
before, or during the time he is engaged in running an engine,
be in a state of intoxication, shall forfeit his license, with all
the rights and privileges acquired by it, indefinitely or for a
stated period, as the board may determine after notifying
such engineer to appear before the board, and inquiring into
his act or conduct. It shall be the duty of the board to determine whether the engineer is unfit or incompetent by reason
of any act or habit unknown at the time of his examination,
or acquired or formed subsequent to it, and if it is made to
appear that he is unfit or incompetent from any cause; the
board shall revoke or cancel his license, and shall notify every
railroad in this state of the action of the board.
"SEC. 6. Be itfurther enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the governor, as soon after the approval of this act as practicable, to appoint and commission five skilled mechanics, one
of whom shall reside in Birmingham, one inMontgomery, one
in Mobile, one in Selma, and one in Eufaula, who shall constitute a board of examiners for locomotive engineers. It shall
be the duty of said board to examine locomotive engineers,
issue licenses, hear causes of complaint, revoke or cancel

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

licenses, and perform such duties as are provided in this ac:
Provided, That any one of said board shall have authority to
examine applicants for licenses, and if the applicant is found
competent, to issue license to him: Providedfurther, That for
every examination provided in. this act, the board or member
thereof making the examination shall be entitled to five dollar's, to be paid by the applicant.
"SEc. 7. Be itfurter enacted, That all engineers now employed in running or operating engines upon railroads in this
state shall have three months after- the appointment of the
board herein provided within which to be examined and to
obtain a license.
"gEe. 8. Be itfurther enacted, That any engineer violating
the provisions of this act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
-and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than fifty nor
more than five hundred dollars, and may also be sentenced to
hard labor for the county for not more than six months."
.Mr.
error.

. L.

ussell and XAb. B. B. Boone for plaintiff in

No state has the' power to pass a law affecting interstate
commerce, where its, regulation requires a uniform rule, or
where the subject is national, and should admit of but one
form or plan of regulation. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;
-Mobile v. .imball, 102 U. S. 691; 'Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania,114 U9. S. 196; Fargo v. Zifiohigan, 121 U. S.
230; Tfestern Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347.
The transportation of passengers and freight from orz, State
to aniother is interstate commerce. Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196. The plaintiff in error while
operating an engine engaged in the business of interstate commerce is as much an instrument of such commerce as the locomotive or cars in which the merchandise or passengers are
transported. To subjebt him, under the facts of this case, to
examination and license and the payment of a fee before he
is allowed to engage in the business of interstate commerce, is
not a regulation local or limited in its nature, but one of gen-

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

eral application, and if it be held that the State of Alabama
can impose such a system of regulation upon interstate commerce, then every State in the Union could likewise devise
and impose an independent system in accordance with its own
policy and requirements, and it might so happen that each
State would have a different system of laws prescribing the
qualifications and competency of a locomotive engineer.
Congress, by an act approved Feb. 4, 1887, twenty-four days
before the passage and approval of the act of Alabama in
question, legislated upon the whole subject of interstate dmmerce carried on by the railroads of this country, and no
provision is made therein for the examination and licepse of
locomotive engineers, engaged in the business of interstate
commerce, and this court has held that the non-exercise. of
the power in respect to the regulation of commerce between the
States, is equivalent to a declaration that such commerce shall
be free and untrammelled. TWelton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 175;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196; Pickard v. Pullman Southern
Car Co., 117 U. S. 34 ; Wabash &c. Railway -0o. v. Illinois,
118 U. S. 557; Wailing v. Xichigan, 116 U. S. 446; Corson
v. Maryland,120 U. S. 502; )Tall v. De~uir,95 U. S. 485;
Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465.
The act of Alabama, when enforeed against plaintiff in error,
is not a local regulation. A State. has no power to prescribe
qualifications for persons engaged in interstate commerce.
Such business is open and free unless restricted by Congress.
Wtebber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344; Henderson v. iew York,
92 U. S. 259; People v. Comyagnie Transatlantiue,107 U.-S.
59. If this statute can be maintained, the State can exercise
the same power against every person employed in interstate
commerceAnd thus practically forbid all from engaging in it
within its boundaries, without first obtaining the authorization
of such State. Such action would seem to be clearly at variance
with the comnmercial clause of the Constitution of the United
States. The general rule deducible from the decisions of this
court concerning the constitutional immunity, is, that a State
will not be permitted to impose conditions which will amount

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Qourt.

to a regulation of interstate commerce. It has been held by
this court that foreign corporations carrying on such business
cannot be excluded from a State, nor can they be required to
conform to any regulation by the State as a condition precedent to the carrying on of such interstate commerce. Pensacola Telegraph 0o. v. TFesterm Unon Telegraph Co., 96 U. S.
1; Cooper .-3fanufacturing Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727;
Case of the State Freight State Tax, 15 Wall. 232.
Under the act of Congress, entitled " 'An act to regulate commerce," approved February 4th, 1887, Congress exercised to the
extent it deemed necessary the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the several States, and has
left it free t6 all persons to engage in it, and no State can,
alter, annul or abridge that freedom. If the State of Alabama
can prescribe that an engineer before he can engage in the business of interstate commerce as appears from the facts of this
case, must secure a license from the State, then, the other
thirty-nine States of the Union can do likewise, and a loco-motive engineer seekidng to engage in the business of operating
an ehgiiie carrying freight and passengers from one State to
another would be compelled to obtain forty different licenses,
and might have to qualify himself to meet forty different sets
of requirements.
This court held in the case of Pensacola Telegraph Co. v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S.1, that it was not only
the right, but the duty of Congress to take care that intercourse among the States is not obstructed by state legislation.
We contend that commerce among the several States could
not be maintained under, or at least, could not submit to such
obstruction as the procurement by an engineer of a license
from forty different States before he would be authorized to
engage in th6 business of interstate commerce.
.M. T. JT..V
ICiellan,Attorney General of the State of Alabama, for defendant in error.
MP. TUsTIO MArrW'ws, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

The grant of power to Congress in the Constitution t6 regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States, it is conceded, is paramount over all legislative powers
which, in consequence of not having been granted to Congress,
are reserved to the -tates. It follows that any legislation of
a State, although in pursuance of an acknowledged power
reserved to it, which conflicts with the actual exercise of the
power of Congress over the subject of commerce, must give
way before the supremacy of the national authority. As the,
regulation of cpmmerce may consist in abstaining from prescribing positive rules for its conduct, it cannot ilways be said
that the power to regulate is dorinant because not affirmatively
exercised. And when it is manifest that Congress intends to
leave that commerce, which is subject to its jurisdiction, free
and unfettered by any positive regulations, such intention
would be contravehed by state laws operating, as regulations
of comnmerce as much as though these bad been expressly forbidden. In such cases, the existence of the power to regulate
commerce in Congress has been construed to be not only paramount but exclusive, so as to withdraw the subject as the basis
of legislation altogether from the States.
There are many cases, however, where the acknowledged
powers of a State may be exerted and applied in such a manner as to affect foreign or interstate commerce without -being
intended to operate as commercial regulations. If their operation and application in such cases regulate such commerce, so
as to conflict with the regulation of the same subject by Congress, either as expressed in positive laws or implied from the
absence of legislation, such legislation on the part of the State,
to the extent of that conflict, must be regarded as annulled.
To draw the line of interference between the two fields of
jurisdiction, and to define and declare the instances of unconstitutional encroachment, is a judicial question often of much
difficulty, the solution of which, perhaps, is not to be found in
any single and exact rule of decision. Some general lines of
discrimination, however, have been drawn in varied and numerous decisions of this court. It has been uniformly held, for
example, that the States cannot by legislation place burdens

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

upon commerce with foreign nations or among the several
States. ."But upon an examination of the cases in which they
were rendered," as was said in Sherlock v. Ailing, 93 U. S. 99,
102, "it will- be found that the legislation adjudged invalid
imposed a tax upon some instrument or subject of .commerce,
or exacted a license fee from parties engaged in commercial
pursuits, or created an impediment to the free navigation of
some public waters, or prescribed conditions in accordance
with which commerce in particular articles or between particular places was required to be conducted. In all the cases,
the legislation condemned operated directly upon commerce,
either by way of tax upon its business, license upon its pursuit
in particular channels, or conditions for carrying it on." In
that case it was held that a statute of Indiana, giving a right
of action to the personal representatives of the deceased where
his death was caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, was applicable to the case of a loss of life occasioned by
*a collision between steamboats navigating the Ohio River
engaged in interstate commerce, and did not amount to a
regulation of commerce in violation of the Constitution of the
United States. On this point the court said (p. 103): "General legislation of this kind, prescribing the liabilities or duties
of citizens of a state, without distinction as to pursuit or calliig,
is not open to any valid objection because it may affect persons
engaged in foreign or interstate commerce. Objection might,
with equal propriety, be urged against legislation prescribing
the form in which contracts shall be authenticated, or property
descend or be distributed on the death of its owner, because
applicable to the contracts or estates of persons engaged in
such commerce. In conferring upon Congress the regulation of
commerce, it was never intended to cut the states off from legislating on all subjects relating to the health, life, and safety of
their citizens, though the legislation might indirectly affect
tie commerce of the country. Legislation, in a great variety
of ways, may affect commerce and persons engaged in it without constituting a regulation of it withiii the meaning of the
Constitution.

.

.

.

And it may be said generally, that

the legislation of a state, not directed against commerce or

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

any of its regulations, but relating to the rights, duties and
liabilities of citizens, and cnly indirectly and remotely affec;ing the operations of commerce, is of obligatory force upon
citizens within its territorial jurisdiction, whether on land or
water, or engaged in commerce, foreign or interstate, or in
any other pursuit." In that case it was admitted, in* the
opinion of the court, that Congress might legislate, under the
power to regulate commerce, touching the liability of parties
for marine torts resulting in the death of the persons injured,
but that, in the absence of such legislation by Congress, the
statute of the State, giving such right of action, constituted
no encroachment upon the, commercial power of Congress,
although, as was also said (p. 103), "It is true that the commercial power conferred by the Constitution is one without
limitation. It authorizes legislation with respect to all the
subjects of foreign and interstate commerce, the persons
engaged in it, and the instruments by which it is carried, on."
The statute of Indiana held to be, valid in that case was an
addition to and an amendment of the general body of the law
previously existing and in force regulating the relative rights
and duties of persons within the jurisdiction of the State, and
operating upon them, even when engaged in the business of
interstate commerce. This general system of law, subject to
be modified by state legislation, whether consisting in that
customary law which prevails as the common law of the land
in each state, or as a code of. positive provisions expressly enacted, is nevertheless the law of the State in which it is ad.ministered, and derives 'all its force and effect from the actual
or presumed exercise of its legislative power. It does not
emanate from the authority of the national government, nor
flow from the exercise of any legislative powers conferred upon
Congress by the Constitution of the United States, nor can it
be implied as existing by force of any other legislative authority than that of the several states in which it is enforced. It
has never been doubted but that this entire body and system
of law, regulating in general the relative rights and duties of
persons within the territorial jurisdiction of the State, without
regard to their pursuits, is subject to change at the will of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

legislature of each State, except as that will may be restrained
by the Constitution of the United States. It is to this law
that persons within the scope of its operation look for the definition of thbeir rights and for the redress of wrongs committed
upon them. It is the source of all those relative obligations
and duties enforceable by law,' the observance of which the
State, undertakes to enforce as its public p~licy. And it was
in contemplation of the continued existence of this separate
system of law in each state that the Constitution of the United
States was framed and ordained with such legislative powers
a0are therein granted expressly or by reasonable implication.
.It is among these laws of the states, therefore, that we find
pr'vfsiions concerning the rights and duties of common carriers
of :perSons and merchandise, whether by land or by water,
ana.the means authorized by which injuries resulting from the
failure, properly to perform their obligations may be either
prve'nted or redressed. A carrier exercising his calling within
- particular state, although engaged in the business of interstate commerce, is answerable according to the laws of the
State for acts of nonfeasance or misfeasance committed within
its limits. If he fail to deliver goods to the proper consignee
at the right time or place, he is liable in an action for damages
under the laws of the State in its courts; or if by negligence
in transportation he inflicts injury upon the person of a passenger brought from another state, a right of action for the
consequent damage is given by the local law. In neither case
would it be a defence that the law giving, the right to redress
was void as being an unconstitutional regulation of commerce
by the State. This, indeed, was the very point decided in
SherZock v. Ailing, above cited. If it is competent for the
State thus to administer justice according to its own laws for
wrongs done and injuries suffered, when comniitted and inflicted by defendants while engaged in the business of interstate or foreign commerce, notwithstanding the power over
those subjects conferred upon Congress by the Constitution,
- what is there to forbid the State, in the further exercise of the
same jurisdiction, to prescribe the precautions and safeguards
foreseen to be necessary and proper to prevent by anticipation

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

those wrongs and injuries which, after they have been inflicted,
it is admitted the Stat.'has power to redress and punish ? If
the State has power to secure to passengers conveyed by common carriers in their vehicles of transportation a right of action
for the recovery of damages occasioned by the negligence of
the carrier in not providing safe and suitable vehicles, or em
ploys of sufficient skill and knowledge, or in not properly
conducting and managing the act of transportation, why may
not the State also impose, on behalf of the public, as additional
means of prevention, penalties for the non-observance of these
precautions? Why may it not define and declare what particular things shall be done and observed by such a carrier in
order to insure the safety of the persons and things he carries,
or of the persons and property of others liable to be affected
by them?
It is that law which defines who are or may be common
carriers, and prescribes the means they shall adopt for the
safety of that which is committed to tneir charge, and the
rules according to which, under varying conditions, their conduct shall be measured and judged; which declares that the
common carrier owes the duty of care, and what shall constitute that negligence for which he shall be responsible.
But for the provisions on the subject found in the local law
of each State, there would be no legal obligation on the part
of the carrier, whether ex contractu or ex delicto, to those
who employ him; or if the local law is held not to apply
where the carrier is engaged in foreign or interstate commerce,
then, in the absence of laws passed by Congress or presumed
to be adopted by it, there can be no rule of decision based
upon rights and duties supposed to grow out of the relation of
such carriers to the public or to individuals. In other words,
if the law of the particular State does not govern that relation, and prescribe the rights and duties which it implies,
then there is and can be no law that does until Congress expressly supplies it, or is held by implication to have supplied
it, in cases within its jurisdiction over foreign and interstate
commerce. The failfire of Congress to legislate can be construed only as an intention not to disturb what already exists,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and is the mode by which it adopts, for cases within the scope
of its power, the rule of the state law, which until displaced
covers the subject.,
There is no common law of the United States, in the sense,
of a national customary law, distinct from the common law of
England as adopted by the several States each for itself, applied as its local law, and subject to such alteration as may
be provided by its own statutes. Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet.
591. A determination in a given case of what that law is may
be different in a court of the United States from that which prevails in the judicial tribunals of a particular State. This arises
from the circumstance that the courts of the United States,
in cases within their jurisdiction, where they are called u'pon
to administer. the law of the State in which they sit-or by
which the transaction is governed, exercise an independent
though concurrent jurisdiction, and are required to ascertain
and declare the law according to their own judgment. This
is illustrated by the case of Railroad- Co. v. Lockwood, 17
Wall. 351, where the common law prevailing in the State of
New York, in reference to the liability of common carri6rs for
negligence, received a different interpretation from that placed
upon it by the judicial tribunals of the State; but the law as
applied was none the less the law of that State.
In cases, also, arising under the lex mercatoria,or law merchant, by reason of its international character, this court has
held itself less bound by the decisions of the state courts than
in other cases. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet: 1; Carpenterv..Povidence Washinyton Insurance Co., 16 Pet. 495; Oates v..-ationaZ Bank, 100 UT. S. 239; Railroad Company v. -National
Bank, 102 U. S. 14.
There is, however, one clear exception to the statement that
there is no national common law. The interpretation of the
Constitution of the United States is necessarily influenced by
the -fact that its provisions are framed in the language of the
English common law, and are to be read in the light of its
history. The code of constitutional and statutory construction
which, therefore, is gradually formed 6y- the judgments of
this court, in the application of the Constitution and the laws

SMITil v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

and treaties made in pursuance thereof, has for its basis so
much of the common law as may be implied in the subject,
and constitutes a common law resting. on national authority.
-Moore v. United States, 91 U. .S. 970.
The statute of Alabama, the validity of which is drawn in
question in this case, does not fall within this exception. It
would, indeed, be competent for' Congress to legislate upon its
subject matter, and to prescribe the qualifications of locomotive engineers for. employment by carriers engaged in foreign
or interstate commerce. It has legislated upon a similar subject by prescribing the qualifications for pilots and engineers
of steam vessels engaged in the coasting trade and navigating
the inland waters of the United States while engaged in commerce among the States, :Rev. Stat. Tit. 52, §§4399-4500, and
such legislation undoubtedly is justified on the ground that it
is incident to the power to regulate interstate commerce.
In Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, this court adjudged
a law of the State of Alabama to be unconstitutional, so far as
it applied to vessels engaged in interstate commerce, which
prohibited any steamboat from navigating any of the waters
of the State without complying with certain prescribed conditions, inconsistent with the act of Congress of February 17,
1793, in reference to the enrollment and licensing of vessels
engaged in the coasting trade. -In that case it was said (p.
243): "The whole commercial marine of the country is placed
by the Constitution under the regulation of Congress, and. all
laws passed by that body in the regulation of navigation and
trade, whether foreign or coastwise, is therefore but the exercise of an undisputed power. When, therefore, an act of- the
legislature of a State prescribes a regulation of tire subject repugnant to and inconsistent with the regulation, of Congress,
the state law must give way, and this without regard to the
source of power whence the state legislature derived its enactient."
The power might with equal authority be exercised in prescribing the qualifications for locomotive engineers employed
by railroad companies engaged in the transportation of passengers and goods among the States, and in that ease would super-

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

sede any cohiflicting provisions on the same subject made by
local authority.
But the provisions on the subject contained in the statute
-of Alabama under consideration are not regulations of interstate commerce. It is a misnomer to call them such. Considered in themselves, they are parts of that body of the local
law which, as we have already seen, properly governs the relation between carriers of passengers and merchandise and
the public who -employ them, which are not displaced until
. they dome in conflict with express enactments of Congress in
'the eieroiSe of its power over commerce, and which, until so
'displaced, according to the evident intention of Congress, remain as the law governing carriers in the discharge of their
obligations, whether engaged in the purely internal coinmerce
of the State or in comiiaerce among the States.
No objection to the statute, as an impediment to the free
transaction of commerce among the States, can be found in
any of its special provisions. It requires that every locomotive
engineer shall have a license, but it does not limit the number
of persons who may be licensed nor prescribe any arbitrary
conditions to the grant. The fee of five dollars to be paid by
an applicant for his examination is not a provision for raising
revenue, but is no more than an equivalent for the service rendered, and cannot be considered in the light of a tax or burden
upon transportation. The applicant is required before obtain-,
ing his license to satisfy a board of examiners in reference to
his knowledge of practical mechanics, his skill in operating
a locomotive engine, aid his general competency as an engineer, and the board before issuing the license is required to
inquire into his 6haracter and habits, and to withhold the
license if he be found to be reckless or intemperate.
Certainly it is the duty of every carrier, whether engaged in
the domestic commerce of the State or in interstate commerce,
t6 provide and furnish itself with locomotive engineers of this
precise description, competent and well qualified, skilled and
sober; and if, by reason of carelessness in the selection of an engineer not so qualified, injury or loss are caused, the carrier, no matter in what business engaged, is responsible accord-

SMITH v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to the local law admitted to govern in such cases, in the
absence of congressional legislation.
The statute in question further provides that any engineer
licensed under the act shall forfeit his license if at any time
found guilty by the board of examiners of an act of recklessness, carelessness- or negligence while running an engine, by
which damage to person or property is done, or who shall,
immediately preceding or durifig the time he is engaged in
running an engine, be in a state of intoxication; and the board
are authorized to revoke and cancel the license whenever they
shall be satisfied of the unfitness or incompetency of the engineer by reason of any act or habit unknown at the time of his
The
examination, or acquired or formed subsequent to it.
eighth section of the act declares that any engineer violating
its provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and. upon conviction inflicts upon him the punishment of a fine not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and also that he may be sentenced to
hard labor for the county for not more than six months.
IfP a locomotive engineer, running an engine, as was the
petitioner in this case, in the business of transporting passengers and.goods between Alabama and other States, should,
while in that State, by mere negligence and recklessness in
operating his engine, cause the death of one or more passengers carried, he might certainly be held to answer' to the
criminal laws of the State if they declare the offence in such
a. case to be manslaughter. The power to puinish for the
offence after it is committed certainly includes the power to
provide penalties directed, as are those in the statute in question, against those acts of omission which, if performed, would
prevent the commission of the larger offence.
It is to be remembered that railroads are not natural highways of trade and commerce. They are artificial creations;
they are constructed within the territorial limits of a State,
and by the authority of its laws, and*ordinarily by means of
corporations exercising their franchises by limited grants from
the State. The. places where they may be located' and the
plans according to which they must be constructed, are prescribed by the legislation of the State. Their operation
VOL. CXXIV-31"

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

requires the use of instruments and agencies attended with
special risks and dangers, the proper management of which
involves peculiar knowledge, training, skill, and care. The
safety of the public in person and property demands the use
of specific guards and precautions. The width of the gauge,
the character of the grades, the mode of crossing streams by
culverts and bridges, the kind of cuts and tunnels, the mode
of crossing other highways, the placing of watchmen and signals at points of special danger, the rate of speed at stations
and through villages, towns, and cities, are all matters naturally and peculiarly within the provisions of that law from
the authority of which these modern highways of commerce
derive their existence. The rules prescribed for their construction and for their management and operation, designed to
protect. persons and property, otherwise endangered by their
use, are strictly within the limits of the local law. They are
not pet se regulations of commerce; it is only when they operate as such in the circumstances of their application; and conflict with the expressed or presumed will of Congress exerted
on the same subject, that they can be required to give way to
the supreme authority of the Constitution.
In conclusion, we find, therefore, first, that the statute of
Alabama, the validity of which is under consideration, is not,
considered in its own nature, a regulation of interstate commerce, even when applied as in the case under consideration ;
secondly, that it is properly an act of legislation within the
scope of the admitted power reserved to the State to regulate
the relative rights and duties of persons being and acting
within its territorial jurisdiction, intended to operate so as to
secure for the public, safety of person and property; and,
thirdly, that, so far as it affects transactions of commerce
among the States, it does so only indirectly, incidentally, and
remotely, and not so as to burden or impede them, and, in the
particulars in which it touches those transactions at all, it is
not in conflict with any express enactment of Congress on the
subject, nor contrary to any intention of Congress to be presumed from its silence.
For these reasons, we hold this statute, so far as it is alleged

UNITED STATES v. HESS.
S.tatement of the Case.

to contravene the Constitution of the United States, to be a
valid law.
1heju igme t of the Supreme Court of Alama is therefore
ffirrned.

MfI3. JuscE BRADLEY dissented.

-UNITED STATES v. HESS.
CERTIICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINON BETWEEN THE JUDGES OF THE
CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW, YORE.
Argued January 16, 1888. -Decided

January 20, 1888.

In an indictment for committing an offence against a statute, the offence
may be described in the general language of the act, but the description
must be accompanied by a statement of all the particulars essential to
constitute the offence or crime, and to acquaint the accused with what
he must meet on trial.
A count in an indictment under Rev. Stat. § 5480, which charges that the
defendant, "having devised a scheme to defraud divers other persons to
the jurors unknown, which scheme he" "intended to effect by inciting
such other persons to open communication with him" "by means of the
post-office establishment of.the United States, and did unlawfully, in attempting to execute said scheme, receive from the post-office" "a certain
letter" (setting it forth), "addressed and directed" (setting it forth),
"against the peace,' &c., does not sufficiently describe an offence within
that section, because it does not state the particulars of the alleged
scheme to defraud; such particulars being matters of substance, and not
of form, and their omission not being cured by a vprdict of guilty.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This case comes before us from the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York on a certificate of division of
opinion between the Judges. The defendant was indicted in
that court for an aleged offence, described in general terms as
that of devising "a scheme to defraud divers other persons,"
'to the jurors unknown, and intending to effect it by inciting

