. OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

caiuse be reformed to include -such a. statement, the, appellees
will meet with difficulty at the Land Office, in securing either
scrip for the lands sold or -patents for the portion, if any, remaining unsold.
ROBERT B. Lmvs,
of Caum~eZ for Appel~ee
MR. Jusnc BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is ordered that the judgment in this case be amended by
adding thereto instructions to the District Court from whose
decree the appeal was taken to amend its decree by describing,
according to United States surveys, the lands applied for. by
the appellees and confirmed to them by the decree, and by
declaring that if any parts of said lands have been sold or
granted by the United States, the appellees shall have the right
to enter upon any of the public lands of the United States, a
quantity 6f land equal in eitent to that so sold or granted;
and by directing a reference to be made to a master to ascertain whether any such sales, and if so what, and to whatextent, have been made; and by declaring the appellees entitled to scrip certificates to the extent and amount of such
sales and grants.
And the said District Court is further instructed to take
such further proceedings as may be necessary to carry out the
instructions of this decree.
So ordered.

CRAWFORD v. HALSEY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted February 2, 1888. -Decided

February 20, 1888.

A member of a bankrupt partnership, purchasing of the assignee in bankruptcy a debt due the firm, takes only such rights as the assignee has,
under the bankrupt laws, to contest the validity of a transfer otfthe debt
as in violation of those laws.

CRAWFORD v. HALSEY.
Statement of the Case.

Tmis suit was brought on the 29th of July, 1876, by Henry
Barnewell and William C. Gaynor, assignees in bankruptcy of
Crawford, Walsh, Butt & Co., a mercantile firm doing business
at Mobile, Alabama, composed of James Crawford, Charles
Walsh, Cary W. Butt, Robert C. Crawford, and Charles
Walsh, jr., against William F. Halsey, to recover $4118.55 and
interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum from February
28, 1874, claimed to be due for moneys had and received for
and on account of the bankrupts. The defence was that the
firm had assigned the claim on the 3d of December, 1873, and
that, to avoid litigation, it was, on the 12th of May, 1875, submitted by all parties, including the firm and the person to
whom the claim had been transferred, to the arbitrament of
certain persons, "with the powers of amicable compounders,"
who, on the 10th of June following, determined that there
was nothing due from Halsey.
On the 27th of May, 1879, the assignees in bankruptcy sold
the claim to Robert C. Crawford, one of the firm, and authorized him to prosecute the suit which had been begun. This
assignment was filed in the cause April 20, 1880. The parties
then went to trial, a jury having been waived, and on the 1st
bf May, 1880, a judgment was announced by the court in the
following form: "The court, considering that an assignment
was made by Crawford, Walsh, Butt & Co. to Parker & Son;
that the matter was submitted to amdicable compounders, who
rendered their judgment for defendant, and the present plaintiff in interest (Robert Crawford, a member of the late firm of
Crawford, Walsh, Butt & Co., bankrupts) cannot be heard to
set up the invalidity of the transfer by said firm, it is ordered,
adjudged, and decreed that this suit be dismissed with costs."
This judgment was duly entered on the minutes of the
court, which were signed by the, judge on the 5th of June,
1880, at the end of the term, but the judgment was not engrossed in the judgment book nor signed by the judge,. as
required by ยง 546 of the Code of Practice of Louisiana.
On the 1st of February, 1883, Crawford again appeared in
cou:rt knd entered a motion "for a new trial on the following
grounds: "That said judgment is contrary to the law and the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

evidence, in that the court failed to give effect to the evidence
showing an assignment of the claim sued on by the bankrupts
Within less than two months of the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and in that the court erred in holding
that one of the discharged bankrupts, now subrogated herein,
could not be heard to contest the validity of the said assignment of April 6, 1874."
This motion was denied, but on the 23d of June, 1883, the
court filed its findings of facts in the case to the effect: 1.
-That Crawford, 'Walsh, Butt & Co., assigned the claim to
G.' M. Parker, December 3, 1873, and that Robert C. Crawford -as then a member of the firm. 2. That on the 6th of
April, 1874, the firm made another assignment of the claim to
William Dunn, for the benefit of G. M. Parker & Son, Vass
Ulmer & Co., and the ]Miobile and Ohio Railroad Company, in
certain proportions. 3. That the petition in bankruptcy was
filed June 3, 1874, and the adjudication had on the 12th of
that month. 4. That Barnewell & Gaynor were appointed
assignees, and after this suit was begun assigned the claim to
Robert C. Crawford, one of the original pa;rtners.
At the end of this finding of facts appeared the following:
"That said assignments have been adduced in evidence, and
it appearing by the facts above recited that the said Robert C.
Crawford was now prosecuting this suit for his sole use and
benefit, the court held and ruled, as matters of law, tha;zhe
could not be heard to impeach the acts of assignment to which
he was a party, on the ground of their being void, as against
the creditors, and that the petition herein must be dismissed,
and there must be judgment for defendant."
Thereupon the judgment as originally entered on. the
minutes was recorded in the-judgment book and signed. To
review the judgment thus rendered this writ of erior was
brought, the amfount of the claim with interest added to the
time of the judgment being more than five thousand dollars.
Xlrb. . X, HYudson for plaintiff in error.
[ . Tbomas L. Bazyne and ).J.
ant in error.

George Denegre for defend.

CRAWFORD

-. HALSEY.

Opinion, of the Court.

MM.. COIEF JUSTIQE WAiTE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Without undertaking to determiffe whether the court could
properly entertain the motion for a new .trial and file an additional finding of facts after the end of the term at which the
judgment was entered, we decide that there is no errorin the
record as it now-stands. The finding of the award of the amicable compounders, which appears both in the judgment as
originally entered and in that finally recorded, must be taken
as part of the findings of facts in the. case; and the ruling of
the court upon the right of Robert C. Crawford to contest the
validity of the assignments must be taken in connection with
the motion for a new trial which confined the objection to the
assignment of April 7, 1874. As. the court has found that
there was an assignment to Parker as early as December 3,
1873, to Which Robert C. Crawford as one of the partners was
a party, and which *as not within the prohibitions of the
bynkrupt law, it was clearly right to hold that he was not permitted to show that it was fraudulent as against his creditors.
As to the assignment of April 7, which was within two months
of the date of the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, the case might have been different. But as an assignment had been made before which was valid both as against
the assignees and Crawford himself, it was a matter of no importance that the one made afterwards was void under the
bankrupt law. The rights of Crawford as purchaser of the
claim were only those of the assignees in bankruptcy.
There can be no question here as to the fact of the assignment in December. That is settled by the finding of the court
below, to the effect that "the claim on which the suit is
brought" was assigned. This disposes of all that is said in the
brief of counsel as to the fact that the coffee, out of which the
claim arose, had not been sold at the date of that assignment.
As the assignmeit was made more than two months before
the bankruptcy proceedings, it was not necessary that the
assignees should be parties to the submission to arbitration.
The title to the claim at the time of the bankruptcy was in

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Parker, and not in the bankrupts. Therefore nothing passed
to the assignees, and there was nothing for them to submit.
The judgment is aflrmed.

DOW v. MEMPHIS AND LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM1 THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued January 9, 18S.-Decided February 20, 1888.

dalveston Railroadv. 6Jowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, affirmed to the point that when
a railroad mortgage covers income, the mortgagor is not bound to account to the mortgagee for earnings while the property is in his possession until a demand is made therefor, or for a surrender of possession
under tile mortgage:
But the commencement of a suit in equity to enforce a surrender of possession to the trustees under the mortgage in accordance with its terms
is a demand for possession, and if the trustees are then entitled to possession the company must account from that time.

THE facts on which this case rested were these:
Robert K. Dow, Watson Matthews, and Charles Moran are
the trustees in two mortgages executed by the Memphis and
Little Rock Railroad Company as reorganized, one on the first
and the other on the second of May, 18'', to secure two sepaIrate issues of bonds. Each of the mortgages covered, among
other things, "all the incomes, rents, issues, tolls, profits, receipts, rights, benefits and advantages had, received or derived
by the party of -the first part from any of the herbby conveyed premises," which included the railroad of the company;
but it was provided that until default in the payment of interest or principal the company should "retain the possession of
all the property hereby conveyed, and receive and enjoy the
income thereof." In case of default for sixty days in the payment of interest the trustees were authorized to enter upon
and take possession of "all and singular the charter, franchises

