UNITED STATES v. MORANT.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. MORANT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRIOT OF FLORIDA.
Submitted January 30, 1888.-Decided February 20, 1888.

The court, on motion, amends the judgment and decree in this case heretofore announced, and reported 123 U. S. 335.

THIS case is reported 123 U. S. 335. After judgment was announced, Xr . Robert B. Lines, of counsel for appellees, on their
behalf, presented to the court the following motion, entitled in
the cause:
Come now the appellees, by Robert B. Lines, of counsel, and
move the court that the decree heretofore rendered in the
above entitled cause be set aside, and the said cause remanded
to the District Court for the Northern District of Florida,
with instructions to enter its decree confirming the title of
appellees to the lands in controversy, describing the same according to United States surveys, and specifying the amounts
of land and scrip certificates respectively, to which said appellees may be entitled, under the acts of Congress of June 22d,
1860, and March 2d, 1867.
And for ground of their said motion, the said appellees respectfully show:
That they are informed, that parts of said lands have been
sold or granted by the United States; that in such case, it is
provided by §§ 11 and 6 of said act of 1860, 12 Stat. 85, that
the confirmees shall have the right to enter upon any of the
public lands of the United States, a quantity of land equal in
extent to that sold by the Government; that it has been the
practice heretofore in such cases, for the decree of the lower
court, to state whether any and what lands have been so sold
within the limits of private hlad claims, (see Mandates and
Records in United States v. 64uihing, October term, 1873;
United States v. .Marquisof aaa "Y'iTjo, October term, 1878,
&c.); and that, unless the decree of the court below in this

. OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

caiuse be reformed to include -such a. statement, the, appellees
will meet with difficulty at the Land Office, in securing either
scrip for the lands sold or -patents for the portion, if any, remaining unsold.
ROBERT B. Lmvs,
of Caum~eZ for Appel~ee
MR. Jusnc BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is ordered that the judgment in this case be amended by
adding thereto instructions to the District Court from whose
decree the appeal was taken to amend its decree by describing,
according to United States surveys, the lands applied for. by
the appellees and confirmed to them by the decree, and by
declaring that if any parts of said lands have been sold or
granted by the United States, the appellees shall have the right
to enter upon any of the public lands of the United States, a
quantity 6f land equal in eitent to that so sold or granted;
and by directing a reference to be made to a master to ascertain whether any such sales, and if so what, and to whatextent, have been made; and by declaring the appellees entitled to scrip certificates to the extent and amount of such
sales and grants.
And the said District Court is further instructed to take
such further proceedings as may be necessary to carry out the
instructions of this decree.
So ordered.

CRAWFORD v. HALSEY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted February 2, 1888. -Decided

February 20, 1888.

A member of a bankrupt partnership, purchasing of the assignee in bankruptcy a debt due the firm, takes only such rights as the assignee has,
under the bankrupt laws, to contest the validity of a transfer otfthe debt
as in violation of those laws.

