M1ARSHALL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

sent to the bank for discount at the time the check was given
were never discounted, and were returned to the" sender.
They were not to be used for'the payment of the check unless
discounted.
An order to pay a particular sum out of a special fund cannot be treated as an equitable assignment pro tnto unless
accompanied with such a relinquishment of control over the
sum designated'that the fund-holder can safely pay it, and becompelled to do so, though forbidden by the drawer. A general deposit in'a bank is so much money to the depositor's
credit; it is a debt to him by the bank, payable on demand to
his order, not property capable of identification and specific
appropriation. A check upon the bank in the usual form, not
accepted or certified by its cashier to be good, does not constitute a.transfer of any money to the credit of the holder; it is
simply an order which may be countermanded, and payment
forbidden, by the drawer at any time before it is actually
cashed. It creates no lien on the money, which the holder
can enforce against th6 bank. It does not of itself operate as
an equitable assignment.
Judgment affirmed.
:MR. JusTicE MATrimws did not sit in this case or take any
part.in the decision.

MARSHALL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA-MS.
Submitted January 5, 1888. -Decided

January 23, 1888.

Seventy-five per cent of forty-five hundred dollars is the maximum pay to
Which an officer of the Army of the United States placed on the retired
list as a colonel is entitled.

* THE appellant brought suit against the United States in the
Court of Claims, wvhere judgment was entered against his
claim. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

-f. 1. B. Warden for appellant.
-Yfr. Attorney General, Xfr. Assistant Attorn-y General
Eoward, and -YM. 1R. P. 1Dewee8 for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

&RLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Elisha G. Marshall-the intestate of the appellants -served
as a cadet from July 1, 1845, to July 1, 1850; was in the
active service of the Army, in different positions, from the
latter date until September 11, 1867, when he was placed on
the retired list, with the rank of colonel, and thereafter served
continuously, until April 11, 1882, on the retired list of the
Army.
The claim made by his administrators is that "the pay of
his grade, as provided by law," is $2625, and that he was
entitled, from and after July 1, 1870, to forty per centum on
that sum for length of service; in all, to the sum of $3675 per
annum; whereas, he was only allowed and paid the sum of
$3375 per annum, or seventy-five per centum of the maximum
pay of a colonel in active service.
The following sections of the Revised Statutes were brought
forward from the act of Congress, approved July 15, 1870,
entitled "An act making appropriations for -the support of
the Army for the year ending June 30, 1871, and for other
purposes," 16 Stat. 315-20, c. 294:
"SEC. 1261. The officers of the Army shall be entitled to the
pay herein stated after their respective designations;
colonel - three thousand five hundred dollars a year.
"SEC. 1262. There shall be allowed and paid to each commissioned officer below the rank of brigadier-general, including chaplains and others having 'assimilated rank or pay, ten
per centum of their current yearly pay for each term of five
years of service.
1"SEc. 1263. The total amount of such increase for length of
*service shall in no case exceed forty per centum on the yearly
pay of'the grade as provided by law."
"SEc. 1267. In no case shall the pay of a colonel exceed

MARSHALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

four thousand five hundred dollars a year, or the pay of a
lieutenant-colonel exceed four thousand dollars a year."
"SEc. 1271. Officers retired from active service shall receive
seventy-five per centum of the pay of the rank upon which
they are retired."
The contention in behalf of the appellants is that under
ยง 1274: a colonel upon being retired should receive seventy-five
per centum of the pay of his rank or grade on the active list,
and in addition thereto, such longevity increase pay as length
of service shall *entitlehim to under ยง 1262, without regard to
what his current pay might have been had he remained on
the active list. It is insisted that Colonel Marshall was entitled to receive, after five years service from July 1, 1870,
$2887.50, that is, $2625, or seventy-five per centum of the
colonels' grade pay of 83500, and $262.50, or ten per~centum,
of his current yearly pay during that period; and, upon the
same basis, $3176.25 after ten years of service; -$3,93.87,
after fifteen years of service; and $3675, after twenty years
of service -the increase stopping at the last sum, by reason
of the provision in ยง 1263, that the total amount of longevity
increase shall not exceed forty per cent of the yearly pay of
the grade.
The construction of the statutes which this view would
require cannot be sustained. When it is provided, in respect
to officers in active service, that in no case shall the "pay of
a colonel exceed four thousand five hundred dollars a year,"
and that "officers retired from active service shall receive
seventy-five per centum of the pay of the rank upon which
they are retired," there is no room left for construction. Colonel Marshall was retired upon the rank of colonel. The annual maximum pay of that rank was and is forty-five hundred
dollars. He received seventy-five per centum of that maximum
pay, and, therefore, received all that Congress authorized to
be paid to him as a colonel on the retired list.
Judgment qffirmed.

