STATE BANK v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the amount thereof by the appellant, to decree a conveyance of the title of the parties to this cause by the trustee -to

the Districtof Columbia; and in default of sueh payment,
within a reasonable time to beffixed therefor, to direct a resale of the saidpremigesfor the satisfaction thereof.

STATE

NATIONAL

BANK

OF

SPRINGFIELD

v.

DODGE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 9, 1888. -Decided

January 23, 1888.

A District Court of the United States deposited in a national bank bankruptcy moneys, which were entered by the bank to the credit of the
court, in an account with the court. Each entry of a deposit in the books
of the bank, and in the deposit book of the court, had opposite to it a
number, consisting of four figures, which the bank understood to indicate a particular case in bankruptcy - in the present instance, No. 2105.
A check was drawn on the bank by the court, to pay a dividend in case
No. 2105. Payment of it was refused by the bank, on the ground that it
had no money on deposit to the credit of the court, it having paid out all
money deposited by the court. Some of such money deposited with the
number 2105 had been paid out by the bank on checks drawn beaihig
another number than 2105. There was enough money deposited with the
number 2105, and not paid out on checks bearing .he number 2105, to
pay the check in question. In a suit against the bank by the payee in
such check to recover the amount of the dividend, Held, that the bank
was not liable.
AT LAw.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

eMr. 20ton Hay and Mr. Henry

. Greene for plaintiff in

error.

Mr. George tunt for defendant in error.
MM. JUSTICE BLATCHFOiD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Illinois, by John L.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Dodge against the -State National Bank of Springfield, Illinois,
to recover a sum of money on an indebtedness alleged to have
arisen under the circumstances set, forth in the certificate of
division of opinion hereinaftei referred to. After issue joined,
the parties filed a stipulation in writing that the cause should
be tried before the court without the intervention of a jury.
It was so tried before the court held by the Circuit Justice and
the Circuit Judge, and, they having differed in opinion as to
certain questions arising at the trial, which questions, were
embodied in such certificate of division, duly filed, a judgment
was entered for the plaintiff, in accordance with the opinion
of the Circuit Justice, for the sum of $2326.80 and costs.
It is stated in the certificate that on the trial the court foundthe following facts:
"1. That the defendant was appointed depository for the
United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois about March 1st, 1873.
"2. That on March 4th, 1813, George P. Bowen, clerk of
the District Court, 'made the first deposit of funds belonging
in the registry of said District Court with said bank, and the
bank then, by direction of clerk Bowen, opened an account
with ' The United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois,' and entered said deposit to the credit of said
court, and that each deposit so made by the clerk was by the
bank entered on its book, and on the deposit book of the clerk,
to the credit of the particular case, naming the case with the
number, to which the funds so deposited belonged; that after.
wards, by direction of the clerk, all deposits so made were
entered by the bank in the name of ' The United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois,' dropping the
name, but retaining the number of the case, as hereinafter
specially set forth.
"3. That, said clerk continued to make deposit of funds
belonging in the registry of said court with said bank up to
-his death, which occurred in February, 1880, and said bank
continued to enter said deposits to ihe credit of the court in
the manner directed by the clerk.
"4. That the entries of these deposits were made under

STATE BANK v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

direction of the clerk, both on the books of the bank and on
the deposit book retained by the clerk, in the following
manner, viz.:
1873, March
1874, Januaxy
1875, January
1876, January

4th.
30th.
11th.
24th.

To dep. 1971
To dep. 1425.
To dep. 1590
To dep. 1637

.$1075
........
.
225
.......
. 4619
. ......
. . . . . . 5200

00
00
22
00

"5. That at the time each deposit was made the clerk brought
to the bank the money to be deposited, together with his
depositors book, and a ticket which would be.like the following, differing only as to number, date, and amount:
"'STATE N~inoNAL BAim,

"'SPRmGFIEID, ILLs., March 4th, 1873.
"'Deposited by George P. Bowen, clerk, current
00;'
.$1075
..........
funds, No. 1971 ....

whereupon the cashier of the bank would receive the funds
and the ticket and enter in the clerk's deposit book, as well as
in the, books of the bank, under the account with ' The District
Court for the Southern District of Illinois,' as follows:
1873, March 4th. To dep. 1971 ........

.$1075

00;'

that the bank understood, when these entries were made, that
the numbers on either side of the account (as No. 1971 above)
referred to the case in which the deposit in the first place was
made and in which the check in the second place was drawn.
"6. That case No. 2105 was pending on the bankruptcy
side of the court, and, during the years 1879, 1880, and 1881,
money to the amount of $38,300, realized from the estate of
H. Sandford & Co., and belonging in said case, was paid into
the registry of the court, and by the clerk Bowen, and his
successor, Converse, ddposited with said court, from time to
time, and entered, like all other deposits, to the credit of said
court, each deposit of the item of this fund being accompanied
by a ticket from the clerk like the following, differing only as
to date and amount, viz.:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Qpinion-of-thei-Court.

cc
'STATE NiTIoNAL BANx,
"'SPRnGFLD, LLS., July 25th, 1879.

"'Deposited by George P. Bowen, clerk, current
funds, No. 2105 ....
.....
....
$17,000 00;'
said deposit account in said case being in full asfollows:
"'The State National Bank of Springfield, Ills., in ac. with
U. S. dist. court, S. dist..Is.
$1T,000
1879, July 25th. To dep. 2105..........
Aug. 7th. "
"
2105 ..
.......
5,000
1880, Jan'y 10th."
" 2105 ...........
4,000
10,000
"
2105 .......
Oct. 14th. "
2,000
Nov. 12th. "
"
2105
1881, Feh'y 25th."
" 2105 .
300
"11. That the officers of the bank, on receiving deposits
accompanied by such ticket, understood the 'N1o. 2105' on
the ticket to refer to a case of that number in the District
Court.
"8. That the orders drawn by the court on the bank, for
funds, in bankruptcy cases, .were in the following forn, the
blanks being filled out to suit ea6h case:
Case No. -.
"'Check No. -.
In the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Illinois. In the Matter of , Bankrupt.
SPRINGFIELD,

ILLS.,

-

--

,

188-.

The State National Bank, U. S. depository.
dollars, being in full for
Pay to the order of
-,
188-, on
t1he dividend of per cent declared claim for $-,
proven against said bankrupt estate.

, Clerk.
Countersigned:
-

-,

Judge.'"

The 9th finding of fa6t sets forth that the checks or orde-3
so drawn and in controversy in this case were six in number,

STATE BANK v. DODGE.,
Opinion of the Court.

each in the form of the blank set forth in finding No. 8. In
two of the checks, the figure following the words "Check
No." was the figure "2 , " in two others of them, the figure
"3," in one of them, the ,figures "27," and in the remaining
one, the figures "28." In each of them, the figures following
the words "'Case No." were "2105." One check numbered
"2"1 was- entitled "In the Matter of Andrew Gundy;" the
other check numbered "2," "In the Matter of Joseph Bailey."
One check numbered "3" was entitled "In the Matter of Abner P. Woodworth;" the other check numbered "13," "In the
Matter of Joseph Bailey" Check No. 27 and Check No. 28
were each entitled "In the Matter of H. Sandford & Co."
Each of the six checks was dated May 12, 1881, and each
was payable "to the order of George Hunt, att'y for John L.
Dodge." The Gundy check No. 2 was for 8517.33, "in full
for the dividend of 4 per cent declared April 30th, 1881," on
a claim for $20,693.33.- The other check No. 2 was for $75.48,"in full for the -dividend of. u per cent declared April 30th,
1881," on a. claim for $22,8714.98. One of the checks No. 3
was for $724.26, " in full for the dividend of 31 per cent declared April 30th, 1881," on a claim for $20,693.33. The
other check No. 3 was "in full for the dividend of iy per
cent declared April 30th, 1881," on a claim for $20,693.33.
Check No. 27 was for $160.12, "in full for the dividend of 7&
per cent declared April 30th, 1881," on a claim for $22,874.98.
Check No. 28 was for $144.85, "in full for the dividend of A
per cent declared April 30th; 1881,?' on a claim for $20,693.33.
Each check was signed-by the clerk of the District Court, and
was countersigned by the District Judge.
The findings then proceed as follows:
"91. That Andrew Gundy, Joseph Bailey, Abner P. Wopdworth, and Hiram Sandford were all members of the firm of
H. Sandford & Co., whose case is numbered 2105 herein, and
that all of said parties were each individually adjudged bankrupts in said cause.
"10. That said checks were presented at the bank for payment and payment refused, and the checks were protested for
non-payment, June 27th, 1881.
VOL. cmxxv-22

OCTOBER TERM; 1887;
Opinion of the Court.

.' 11. That the funds actually belonging to said case No,
2105 and deposited with said bank in manner aforesaid'were
sufficient to pay all checks drawn by the clerk, and countersigned by the judge, in favor of creditors in said case, including said checks in controversy, the funds so deposited amountuing to $38,300, as aforesaid' and all checks drawn thereon,
including the checks in controversy in this suit, amounting to
$33,356.19, leaVing a balance to the credit of said case of
$4943.81.
" 12.. That the bank, before the presentation of the checks
in controversy, had actually paid out, on checks similar to the
above, signed by the clerk and countersigned by the judge, and
differing only as to number of case, names, dates, and amounts,
all the funds ever deposited with it to the credit of the court,
many of such checks being drawn, as indicated therein, in
cases in which no deposits had been made by the clerk.
"13. -That, from the time of the first deposit with said
bank, as depository of said court, up to the death of said
Bowen, in February, 1886, -the bank balanced the account
with said court nine different times, returning all the checks
to the clerk at each balancing, and entering the case, No., and
amount, of each check so returied, in the depositor's book of
the clerk, these balances being struck at the following dates,
and sbowing each time the general balance to the credit of the
court, as follows, viz:
...........
August 30th, 1877 ...
...........
December 8th, 1877 ...
...........
January 5th, 1878 ..
. . .-....
January 23d, 1879 . . ..
February 28th; 1879 .................
.............
June 2d, 1879 .....
............
August 2d, 1879 ....
...........
Oct6ber 30th, 1879 ......
........
.
.
1880.
January 10th,

..

$13,691
11,024
7,853
.
8,594
11,456
.. 27,095
28,2T3
21,2-4
32,670
.

57
74
04
00
01
36
82
48
57

"14. That the last balancing of said account, showing how
it stood when the bank refused to pay3. tie check in contro-

STATE BANK v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

versy, was in -July, 1881, when the account showed a balance
of $43.13 against the court.
"15. That the bank always treated the account as an
entirety, and paid out of it all checks drawn by the clerk and:
countersigned by the judge, until the deposits were exhausted,
and, in so doing, the deposits were exhausted before the drawing and presentation of the checks in controversy, many of
such checks so paid having'been drawn in cases, as indidated
by the numbers, in which no deposit had been made by the
clerk.
'16. That the bank was never served with a copy of the
order of the district court appointing it a depository of the
court, but its cashier was orally informed thereof by the clerk
of the court, and thereafter the bank acted as such depository,.
receiving and paying out money under the orders of the clerk,
countersigned by the judge, as above given.
"11. That the bank iever was furnished with a copy of
Rule 28 in bankruptcy, and had no actual knovledge of the
rule.
"18. That neither the clerk Bowen, nor his successor, Con'
verse, presented to the district court at each or .any regular
session of said court, after the defendant was so .appointed
depository, the account and vouchers required by ยง 798 of the,
Revised Statutes of the United States.
"19. That neither of these clerks made, or was required to
make, at any time after the defendant was -appointed depository, the.monthly report provided for by Rule 28 in bankruptcy.
"20. That the civil and criminal and admiralty cases in the
district court are numbered from one, consecutively, and, at
the time the deposits in question were made, there were two.
cases numbered 2105, in the district court: There was no
evidence that deposits were or were not made in this bank in
favor of, or checks drawn on, any other number 2105 than
those drawn in this bankruptcy case."
Rule 28 in bankruptcy, referred to in the 17th and 19th
findings of fact, was in these words:
"The district court in each digtrict shall designate certain

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

national banks, if there are any within the judicial district, or,
if there are none, then some other safe depository, in which
all moneys received by assignees or paid into court in the
course of any proceedings in bankruptcy shall be deposited;
and every assignee and the clerk of said court shall deposit all
sums received by them severally, on account of any bankrupt's estate, in one designated depository, and every clerk
shall make a report to the court of the funds received by him,
and of deposits made by him, on the first Monday of every
month. On the first day of each month, the assignee shall
file a report with the register, stating whether any collections,
deposits or payments have been made by him during the preceding month, and, if any, he shall state the gross amount of
each. The register shall enter such reports upon a book to be
kept by him -for that purpose, in which a separate account
shall be kept with each estate; and he shall also enter therein
the amount, the date, and the expressed purpose of each
check countersigned by him. No moneys so deposited shall
be drawn from such depository unless upon a check, or warrant, signed by the clerk of the court, or by an assignee, and
countersigned by the judge of the court, or one of the registers designated for that purpose, stating the date, the sum,
and the account for which it is dawn; and an entry of the
substafice of such check or warrant, with the date thereof, the
sum drawn for, and the account for which it is drawn, shall
be forthwith made in a book kept for that purl3ose by the
assignee or the 'clerk; and all checks and drafts shall be
entered in the order of time in which they are drawn, and
shall be nimbered in the caie of each estate. A copy of this
rule shall be furnished to the depository so designated, and
also the name of any register authorized to countersign said
checks."
'Section 798 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
referred to in the 18th finding of fact, was in these words:
"At each regular session of any court of the United States,
the clerk shall present to the court an account of all moneys
remaining therein, or subject to its order, stating in detail in
what causes they are deposited, and in what causes payments

STATE BANK v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

have been made; and said account and the vouchers thero
shall be filed in the court."
The certificate goes on to state that the Judges fouud'and
agreed upon the foregoing facts, and differed in opinion on
the following questions of law:
"First. Was it the duty of plaintiff in error to keep a
separate account with each case in bankruptcy in which
deposits were made in the bank?
"Second. Was it the duty of plaintiff in error to refuse
any check drawn in the nane of the court and countersigned
by the judge thereof, .unless such check specified the'.case itr
bankruptcy on account of which the same was drawn, and
there were funds in the bank to the credit of such cause?
"Third. Did the failure of the bank to keep such separate.
accounts, or its action in paying out all the funrds deposited to
the credit of the court on checks drawn generally, leaving no
funds to meet the checks in controversy, render the bank
liable in this action?
"Fourth. Did the fact that the defendant bank paid out
and exhausted all the funds placed to the credit of the court
on checks some of which did notfbear the number of any case
from which funds had been derived, render the, defendant
liable on the checks in controversy, when, if separate accounts
ho.: been kept with each case or number, there would have
.en funds to the credit of case No. 2105 sufficient to satisfy
said checks?
"Fifth. Notwithstanding the fact that the defendant bank
opened an account with ' The United States District Court for
the Southern District of Illifois,' and credited the funds received in bankrupt cases generally to the credit of said court
in the manner directed by the clerk' of said court, and notwithstanding the further fact, that, from time to time, the
bank settled said account with said court as a general account,
was it, nevertheless, the duty of said bank to keep the funds
received in each case of bankruptcy as a separate fund, to be
applied only to the payment of such checks as were drawn in,
and numbered in, the particular case from which such funds
were derived?

OCTOBE9R TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"Sixth. Did the fact that the'bank understood, wheii deposits were made, that the numberg on either side of the account,
as 2105 in this case, referred to the case in which the' deposit
in the first place was made and in which the check in the
second place was drawn, require the bank to keep the funds
belonging to such case for'the payment of checks drawn
therein, notwithstanding the fact that the account was opened
-and kept as a general account with the court, as directed by
the clerk of the court, and had, from time to time, been settled
with the court as a general account?
"Seventh. Did the fact that the bank understooUl: when
deposits were made, that the numbers on either side of the
account, as 2105 in this case, referred to the case in which the
deposit in the first place was made "andin which the check in
the second place was drawn, require the bank to keep the
funds belonging to such case for the payment of checks drawn
therein?

":Eighth. Was the fact that the bank understood, when
deposits were made, that the numbers on either side of the
account, as 2105 in this case, in which the deposit in the first
place was made and in .which the check in the second place
was drawn, sufficient notice to the bank of the nature of such
deposit, to justify it in refusing to pay out any of the funds
arising therefrom on checks drawn, as indicated therein, in
cases in which no deposits had been made by the clerk?"
The certificate states that the Circuit Justice was of opinion
.that each of the eight questions should be answered in the
affirmative, and that the Circuit Judge was of opinion that
they should be answered in the negative. The defendant has
,brought a writ of error to review the judgment.Notwithstanding the various forms of the questions of law
stated in the certificate, they substantially present but a single
question, and that is, whether the bank was warranted in
keeping its account with the District Court as a general
account, or whether it was its duty to keep a separate account
with each bankrupt estate. The ruling of the Circuit Justice
was that it was the duty of the bank to keep such separate
account with each bankrupt estate, and the judgment followed
such rdlin q.'

STATE BANK v. DODGE.
Orinion of the C6urt.

It being found as a fact that the funds actually belonging
to case No. 2105, and deposited with the bank in the manner
stated in the findings, were sufficient to pay the checks in controversy, ifthe baik had not, before the presentationof those
checks, actually paid out, on like checks, differing' only as to
number of case, names, dates, and amounts, all the funds ever
deposited with it to the credit of the court, many of such
checks being drawn in cases in which no deposits had been
made by the clerk, it is claimed by Dodge, that the ,money
deposited, belonging to case No. 2105, was improperly paid
out by the bank on checks drawn by the court on account of
other cases. On the other hand, the bank claims that the
deposits were made and entered to the credit of the court, and
that the checks drawn were drawn against a fund on deposit
to the"credit of the court, and not against a fund on deposit to
the credit of any particular case; that the bank had a right
to presume that,the court, as trustee, was properly performing
its duty, and was bound to honor all checks drawn by the
court as such trustee; and that the bank was under no duty
to keep accounts for the court, and to inform the court that it
was drawing checks in cases in which there were no funds to
the credit of the case in which the check was drawn.
It clearly appears, from the findings of fact, that the
deposits made in the bank by the clerk for the court were,
according to the direction of the 'clerk, entered by the bank in
the name of the "United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois," without any name of any bankrupt,
but with a number opposite the deposit and its date and
amount, both in the books of the bank and in the deposit book
retained by the clerk; and that the bank has paid out, upon
checks drawn by the court, all the moneys deposited in it by
the court, on checks drawn by the court, co parties who were
entitled to receive the amounts of the checks from the court,
as moneys which the court held in trust for the holders of the
checks. Under these circumstances, the only question is, upon
whom the loss shall fall, and whether it shall fall upon the
bank by reason of any violation by it of any duty which rested.
upon it.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opitiion of the Court.

It is insisted by Dodge, that it was the duty of the bank to
so keep its accounts as not to pay out on a'check drawn on
account of a case other than No. 2105, moneys deposited to

the credit of the court by a deposit opposite to which the
number "2105"

was found in the books of the bank and in

the deposit book of the court. The only fact in the case out
of which such duty could arise, was the fact of the existence
of the number " 2105" in the books of the bank and in the
deposit book of the court, and its absence from the face of the

checks.
In the manner in which it kept the account, the bank at all
times followed the directions of the clerk; and we are unable
to see anything in the transactions which implies any notice,
to or duty upon the bank to keep or deal with the deposits
made under each number as a separate account, especially in
view of the balancings of the account stated in the 13th finding
of fact. The claim on the part of Dodge is, that it was the
duty of the bank, not merely to keep. the funds of the court
safely, but to refuse to honor the 'checks of the court if it
found that the court was drawing checks in any particular
case, according to its number, beyond the amount deposited in
the bank under that number. But we are of opinion that the
bank had a right to assume that these memoranda of numbers
in the deposits and in the checks were merely for the convenience of the court and its officers; and that it also had a
right to presume that. the court and its officers were properly
performing their duty in distributing its trust funds. NAational
Bankl v. -Tim. Co., 104 U. S. 54, 64.
The deposits were made to the credit of the court, in accordance with ยง 995 of the Revised Statutes, which required that
"all moneys paid into any court of the United States, or
received by the officers thereof, in any cause pending or adjudicated in. such court, shall be forthwith deposited with the
Treasurer, an assistant treasurer, or a designated depositary of
the United States, in the name and to the credit of such
court;" and ยง 996 provided that "no money deposited asaforesaid shall be withdrawn except by order of the judge or
judges of said courts respectively, in term or in vacation, to be

STATE BANK v. DODGE.

Opinion of the Court.

signed by such judge or judges, and to be entered and certified
of record by the clerk; and every such order shall state the
cause in or on account of which it is drawn." The deposits
being, as required, in the name and to the credit of the court,
the bank was authorized and required to honor all checks
drawn by the court, and to pay them generally out of such
deposits; and the order br check for withdrawing the money,
in stating the cause in or on account of which it was drawn,
was a memorandum imposing no duty upon the bank, but only
operating for the convenience of the court and its officers, in
keeping its accounts. The obvious purpose of the memoranda
of numbers in the deposit bo6k of the court and. upon the
checks, was to enable the court and the clerk to properly keep
the accounts, and that the checks might operate as vouchers,
showing the manner in which the moneys in any particular
case were distributed, and to enable the clerk to show to the
court that he had deposited the funds which he had received.
There is no evidence anywhere of any intention that the bank
should be controlled by the numbers in paying any check
drawn upon it.
Nor do we perceive that there is anything in :Rule 28 in
bankruptcy which governs this subject. The requirement
in that rule, that "every assignee and the clerk of said court
shall deposit all sums received by them severally, on account
of any bankrupt's estate, in one designated depository," seems
to us to be abundantly satisfied by interpreting it as meaning
that the assignee and the clerk shall deposit all sums received
by them severally, that is, respectively, on account of any
bankrupt's estate, in one designated depository. The requirement of Rule 28, that the check or warrant for drawing money
from the depository shall state the account for which it is
drawn, that is, the name of the estate, contains no indication
that the bank is expqcted to keep a separate account with each
estate; because, if it had been the fiitention that a separate
account should be opened with each estate, it would naturally
have been required that each check should direct the bank to
charge the amount to such particular estate. Such was not
the requirement of the rule, and such was not the form of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

check used. The rule was fully complied with in the present
case. It did not require that the deposits should be made to
the credit of each particular estate, but merely that the moneys should be deposited by the clerk. If it had been intended
that the bank should keep a separate account with each bankrupf case, the requirement of the rule that each check should
specify the account for which it was drawn, would have been
superfluous, because no check otherwise drawn could or would
have been paid.
It appears thus to have been plainly the sole purpose of the
rule that each check, when drawn and paid, should remain
in the hands of the clerk, when returned to him by the bank,
as evidence not only of the payment by the bank of the
amount, but also that the court had paid the amount to the
particular creditor in the particular case. Thus the check
would become a voucher, not only as between the court and
the bank, of the payment by the latter of so much money
which had been on deposit in it to the credit of'the court, but
a voucher as between the court. and the creditor, who had re-'
ceived the money on account of what was due to him in a particular bankrupt case.
No bank is bound to take notice of memoranda and figures
upon the margin of a check, which a depositor places there
merely for his own convenience, to preserve information for
his own benefit; and in such case, the memoranda and figures
are not a notice to.the bank that the particular check is to be
paid only from a particular fund. So, too, a mark on a deposit ticket, if intended to require a particular deposit to be
kept separate from all other deposits placed to the credit of
the same depositor, must be in the shape of a plain direction,
if such a duty is to be imposed on the bank. No facts are
found in the present case which give to the figures which accompanied the depdsits such a meaning as could require the
bank to open a separate account with each bankrupt estate,
especially in view of the' fact found in the 2d finding, that,
after having had at one time the name of the case in which the
deposit was made entered by the bank on its book, and on the
deposit book of the clerk, in the credit, the clerk directed

31ATTHEWS v. IRONCLAD MANF'G. CO.
Syllabus.

afterwards that the hame should be dropped in deposits, and
that they should be entered simply in the name of the court,
but retaining the number of the case. It must be assumed
that this change in the manner of keeping the account had
some object in view, and that object clearly must have been
to avoid the keeping of separate accounts ;' and, if the keeping of separate accounts was in fact to continue to be required,
in view of the use of the numbers in connection with the deposit tickets, an equal amount of labor, if not a greater amount,
would have been caused to the bank by the change, as was
required of it before, without any possible object being accomplished by the change.
The questions certified are all of them answered in the negative, the judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and
the case is remanded to that court, with a direction to
enter a judgment in favor of the defendant.

MATTHEWS v. IRONCLAD MAN7UFAOTURING
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 21, 22, 1887.-Decided January 23, 1888.
A patent for a soda-water fountain, with a specification describing a foun-

tain consisting of a tin lining, with an outer shell of steel, having end
caps fastened on, "without flanges or projections, by tin joints, made by
soldering with pure tin, which, being a ringing metal, unites closely with
the steel exterior to mate a firm and durable joint, as other solders having
lead in them will not do," and a claim for "the tin vessel, incased by a
steel cylinder, and ends soldered to the latter, in the manner substantially
as described," was reissued sei-en years afterwards, with a similar specification and claim, except in omitting from the claim the words "steel"
and "soldered to the latter." Held, that the original patent was limited
to a fountain whose outer cylinder and end caps were united by a solder
of pure tin, without rivets or flanges; that if the reissue was equally limited, it was not infringed by. a fountain with end caps fastened to the

