OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

decision of any such federal question as will authorize an
appeal to this court under § 2 of the act of March 3, 1885, 23
Stat. 443, c. 355. An injunction restraining a person from
prosecuting an ordinary suit in replevin in a court established
under the authority of the United States, does not necessarily
involve a question of "the validity of a treaty or statute of or
an authority exercised under the United States."
Dei6id.

IRQN SILVER MINING OOKPANY v. REYNOLDS.
ERROR TO

THE

ciROi

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted January 4, 1888.-Decided January 23, 1888.

Plaintiff's complaint alleged that he was owner and in possession of a tract
of mining land described by metes and bounds and known as the Wells
and Moyer placer claim, and that while he was thus owner and possessor
defendant entered upon a.portion of it and *r'vongfully ousted him therefrom. Defendant denied these allegations and set up that at"the times
named he was owner and in possession of two lode mining claims known
as the Crown Point and the Pinnacle lodes, and that in working and following them he entered underneath the exterior surface lines of the placer
claim, and had not otherwise ousted plaintiff, and that these two lodes
were known to exist at the time of the application for plaintiff's patent,
and were not included in it. Plaintiff's replication traversed these defences, and further set up that at the times named he was owner, and in
possession, of two claims known as the Rock lode and the Dome lode,
immediately adjoining the Crown Point and Pinnacle lodes, and that
within their boundaries there was a mineral vein or-lode, which, in its.
dip , entered the ground covered by those claims, and that any portion of
any vein or lode, developed underneath the surface of the Crown Point
and Pinnacle lodes, was part of the Rock and Dome lodes. On these
pleadings plaintiff at the trial, in addition to the patent of the placer
claim, which was admitted without objection, offered in evidence a patent
for the Rock and Dome lodes, and a deed of them to him, to show tbt
the lode which, since the issue of the patent for the placer claim, had
been ascertained to dip into the -boundarie. of that claim, had its apex
within the boundaries of those lode claims. The court refused to admit
this evidence. Reld, that this was error, as the facts thus. offered to
be proved, if established, would force defendant from his position of

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. REYNOLDS.

375

Statement of the Case.
intruder without title, and compel him to show prior title to the premises
in himself, or to surrender them to plaintiff.
)n the trial of an issue whether the applicant for a patent of a placer claim
knew at the time of the application that there was alsoa vein or lode included within the boundaries, within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 2322,
an instruction to the jury that "if it appear that an application for a
patent was made with intent to acquire a lode or vein which may exist in
the ground beneath the surface of a placer claim, a patent issued upon
such application cannot operate to convey such lode or vein," and that
,that intention could be formed only upon investigation as to the character of the ground and the belief as to the existence of a valuable lode
therein, which would amount to knowledge under the statute," is erroneous.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This is an action for the possession of certain mining ground
situated in what is known as the California mining district,*in
Lake County, Colorado. The plaintiff is a corporation created
under the laws of New York. The defendant Reynolds is a
-citizen of the State of Illinois, and the defendant Morrisey is a
.citizen of Colorado. The complaint alleges that on the 1st of
January, 1884, the plaintiff was the owner and possessed of a
tract of mining land in the mining district and county of Col-orado mentioned, consisting of 1931% acres, nore or less, the
metes and bounds of which are given as described in the patent
of the United States issued therefor; that whilst thus the owner
and possessed of the same, and on the 1st of May, 1884, the
defendants entered upon a portion of .the said mining land,
which is designated as "the northwest portion of the said described premises at and near the north and east line" thereof,
and wrobgfully and unlawfully ousted the plaintiff therefrom,
and from that time have wrongfully and unlawfully withheld
the possession thereof; that the value of this portion of the
mining land, from which the plaintiff has been ousted, is over
$50,000; and that its rents and profits w hilst the defendants
have held possession, with the damage caused by them, are
$10,000. The plaintiff, therefore, demands judgment fof thb
possession of the premises and for the sum of $10,000 damages. The claim described in the complaint is designated in
the patent of the United States as the Wells and Moyer placer

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

claim, and is thus described in the subsequent pleadings and
proceedings of the case.
The defendants' answer sets up three defences:
1. The first consists of a specific denial of the several
allegations of the complaint.
2. The second is this, that at the times charged in the complaint the defendant Reynolds was, and still is, the owner and
in the actuhl possession of two lode mining claims called respectively the Crown Point lode and the Pinnacle lode,
adjoining on the north the Wells and Moyer placer claim, the
veins of which lodes, in their course downward, dip into and
underneath the exterior lines of the placer claim; and that int.
working and following such veins the defendant Reynolds, as
owner, and the defendant Morrisey, under the license of Reynolds, entered underneath the exterior surface lines of the
placer claim, following the veins as parcel of the premises embraced in the survey of their lode claims, and have not otherwise entered upon the premises described or claimed by the
plaintiff,, or ousted the plaintiff therefrom.
3. The third defence is this, that, at the time of the survey, entry, and patent of the said Wells and Moyer placer
claim, a certain lode, vein or deposit of quartz, or other rock
in place, carrying carbonates of lead and silver-bearing ore of
great value, called the Pinnacle lode, and a certain other lode,
vein or deposit, carrying like minerals of great value, called
the Crown Point lode, were known and claimed to exist
within the boundaries and underneath the surface of the placer
claim described in the complaint, and the fact that such vein
or veins were claimed to exist, and did exist, within said premises was known to the patentees of the placer claim at the
times mentioned, and that in their application for a patent
they were not included, but, by the patent issued upon such
application, were expressly excluded therefrom.
To the answer the plaintiff replied traversing the defences
set up, and, for a further replication, alleged, that at all times
charged in the answer of the defendants, it has been and still
is the owner, and in actual possession of the Rock lode mining
claim, and the Dome lode mining claim, which adjoin, imme-

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. rxNOLDS.

377"

Statement of the Case.

diately 6 n the north side, the said Pinnacle and Crown Point
mining claims, and that within their exterior boundaries there
is a vein, lode, lead, and valuable mining deposit of quartz,
and other rock in place, bearing silver and lead, which, on its
dip and downward course, enters into and underlies the land
adjoining, a portion of which consists of ground covered by
the said Crown Point and Pinnacle lode mining claims; and
that any portion or part of any vein, lode, lead, or valuable
mineral deposit which is found or developed underneath the
surface of the Crown Point and Pinnacle lode claims is a part
and portion of the said Rock and Dome lodes, veins, and
mineral deposits.
This action was twice tried by the Circuit Court. On the
first trial the plaintiff below, which is also the plaintiff in
error here, obtained a verdict in its favor. Being brought to
this court the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded
for a new trial. The case is reported in 116 U. S. 687.
On the present trial, to establish its title, the plaintiff gave
in evidence:
1. Three location certificates of the Wells and iMoyer placer
claim, made on the 23d of March, 1878.
2. A certificate showing application for a patent Mfay 16,
1878.
3. A certificate of entry issued July 22, 1878.
4. The patent to Wells and Mofyer from the United States,
dated March 11, 1879, which contained the following .conditions:
First. That the grant was restricted within the boundaries
described, and to any veins or lodes of quartz or other rock in
,-place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper, or other
valuable deposits thereafter discovered withiin those limits and'
which were not claimed or known to exist at the date of the
,patent.
Second. That should any vein or lode of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper,
or other valuable deposits be claimed or known to exist within
the above described premises at the date of the patent, the
same were expressly excepted and excluded from it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case

.Third. That the premises conveyed might be entered by
the proprietors of any vein or lode of quartz or other rook in
place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper, or other
valuable deposits, for the purpose of extracting and removing
the ore from such vein, lode or deposit, should the same or
any part thereof be found to penetrate, intersect, pass through,
or dip into the mining ground or premises granted.
.5. Deeds of conveyance from Wells and Moyer,
the placer
patentees,' to Storms and Leiter, dated October, 187T8, and
from the latter to the plaintiff, dated March, 1880.
The plaintiff then offered in evidence a patent of the United
States for the Rock and Dome lode mining claims, and deeds
conveying the title thereof from the patentees to the Iron
Silver IMining Company, for the purpose of showing that the
lode, whicfi, since 'the issue of the Wells' and Moyer placer
patent, has been ascertained to dip into and extend within the
boundariis of the patented claim, has its top, apex, and outcrop within the Rock and Dome lode mining claims; and of
tracing the right to that vein or lode from its top, apex, or
outcrop into the territory in dispute in this action.
The introduction of this evidence was objected to by the
defendants on the gr6und that there was no issue of the kind
in the pleadings, and the objection was sustained by the court,
to which ruling the plaintiff excepted.
On the trial the defendants, though they gave in evidence
their title to the Crown Point and Pinnacle lodes, admitted
that they did not rely, in support of their title to the premises
in controversy, upon the existence of.any apex cropping out
within the surface lines of the said lodes, which ,they could
lawfully pursue and hold under their patents. The case was,
therefore, limited to the single question, whether the title of
the plaintiff under the patent was affected by knowledge of
the patentees, at the time of their application for a patent,
that a lode or vein existed at the place in controversy within
their placer claim. The question as tried was one of knowledge on the part of the placer patentees, or whether the premises in dispute were a known vein or lode, within the exception
of the patent.

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. REYNOLDS.

379

Statement of the Case.

Section 2333 of the Revised Statutes, under which the patent issued, is as follows:
"Where the same person, association, or corporation is in
possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode included
within the boundaries thereof, application shall be made for a
patent for the placer claim, with the statement that it includes
such vein or lode, and in such case a patent shall issue for the
placer claim, subject to the provisions of this chapter, including such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars per
acre for such vein or lode claim, and twenty-five feet of surface on each side thereof. The remainder of the placer claim,
or any placer claim not embracing any vein or lode claim,
shall be paid for at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per
acre, together with all costs of proceedings; and where a vein
or lode, such as is described in section twenty-three hundred
and twenty, is known to exist within the boundaries of a
placer claim, an application for a patent for such placer claim
which does not include an application for the vein or lode
claim shall be construed as a conclusive declaration that the
claimant of the placei claim has no right of possession of the
vein or lode claim; but where the existence of a vein or lode
in a placer claim is not known, a patent for the placer claim
shall convey all valuable inineral and other deposits within
the boundaries thereof."
The evidence offered by the defendants, as to the knowl.
edge of the patentees, was of a vague, uncertain, and unsatis.
factory character. It consisted principally of impressions,
beliefs, and inferences on the subject, drawn from loo~e state,
ments made, or theories advanced by the patentees, or persons
alleged to have been interested in the claim, or the supposed
motives of their conduct. The court, among other things,
instructed the jury that it was unnecessary to state "what
circumstances may be sufficient to affect a patentee with
knowledge 'as declared by the statute, for if in any case it
appear that an application for a patent is made with intent to
acquire title to a lode or vein which may exist in the ground
beneath the surface of a placer claim, it is believed a patent
issued upon such application cannot operate to convey sucb

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

lode or vein ;" and that "that intention could be formed only
upon investigation as to the character of the ground, and the
belief as to the existence of a valuable lode therein, which
would amount ,to knowledge under the statute."
To this instruction the plaintiff excepted.
The jury found for the defendants, and upon their verdict
judgment was entered, which is brought to this court for
review.
Mr. I. S. Dixon and .MA. Frank W. Owers for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr.T. .M.Paterson,.Mr. (. S. Thomas, .r. P. . 3forrhvon,
and _31r. G. W. K'retzi'nger for defendants in error.
MR. JusTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As seen by the statement of the case, the patent of the
United States to Wells and Moyer of their placer claim, within
the surface lines of which, drawn down vertically, the premises in controversy are situated, contains several conditions,
and among others that the premises may be entered by the
proprietors of any vein or lode ol quartz, or other rock in
place, bearing gold, silver or other valuable deposits, for the
purpose of extracting and removing the ore from them, should
they be found to penetrate into the premises. This exception
* is founded upon the statute, which provides, that the owners of
any mineral vein, lode, or ledge situated on the public domain,
the location of which was made after the 10th day of May,
1872, should have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment, not only of all. the surface included within the lines of
their locations, but also the exclusive right of possession and
enjoyment "of all veins, lodes, and ledges throughout their
entire depth, the top or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically, although such veins,
lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in
their course downward as to extend outside the vertical side
lines of such surface locations." § 2322. The defendant

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. REYNOLDS.

381

Opinion of the Court.

Reynolds set up in his answer, that he is the owner of the
Crown Point mining lode and the Pinnacle mining lode, adjoining the llacer claim of the plaintiff, and that .he, and the
defendant Morrisey as his licensee, entered the premises in
controversy by following the veins of their lodes from their
outcropping within their surface lines. But on the trial the
defendants disclaimed any right to the demanded premises
under any apex or outcroppings of their lodes withii the
surface lines thereof, and rested their defence upofi ,another
exception of the patent, namely, that if any vein or lode of
quartz, or other rook in place, bearing gold, silver, or other
valuable deposit, was claimed or known to exist within the
premises described at the date of the patent, the same was
excluded from the grant. This exception is founded upon
and limited by the statute which we shall presently consider.
When this case was formerly before us, it was held that if
a lode or vein of gold or silver was known to exist within a
placer claim at the time the application for the patent was
made, the patentee could not recover its possession even as
against a mere intruder. The patentee having no title to
such lode or vein by reason of its exception from his patent
under the statute, could not enforce any legal right to it
against any one, being bound to rely upon the strength of
his own title and not the weakness of his adversary's. The
defendants, therefore, on this trial, placed their defence upon
this exception, and the question for determination was, whether
the lode or vein in question was knowm to exist at the time the
application for a patent was made.
In anticipation of this defence, and to establish title to the
demanded premises, if not sufficiently covered by the patent
for the placer claim, the plaintiff offered in evidence a patent
of the United States for the Rock aild Dome lode mining
claims, and a deed of them to the plaintiff from the patentees,
for the purpose of showing that the lode which, since the issue
of the patent of the placer claimhas been ascertained to dip
into and extend within the boundaries of that claim, has its
apex or outcrop within the boundaries of these lode claims;
but the court refused to adiuit the patent, and the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 187.
Opinion of the Court.

excepted. In thus ruling there was plain error. If the fact
thus sought to be established existed, it would force th6 defendahts from their position of intruders without title, and
compel them to show prior title in themselves to the premises
or to surrender them to the plaintiff.
It is not readily perceived on what ground the ruling of the
court rested. The plaintiff did not base its action upon any
particular source of title; it simply averred that it was the
owner and possessed of certain described mining ground, from
a portion of which .the defendants hai ousted it and wrongfully withheld the possession. The patent was evidence of the
grant of the whole of the described premises, if no portion
was excepted from its operation either in terms or by force of
the statute. But if any portion was excepted for any cause,
the duty fell, on the 'plaintiff to furnish title to such excepted
portion from some other source, and that, the court, by its
ruling, refused to permit the plaintiff to do.
The exception in the patent froi.-its grant of any vein or
lode of quartz, or other rock in piace,, bearing gold, silver,
cinnabar, lead, tin, or other valuable dep6sit, if "claimed or
known to exist," is in terms broaae-k thian the language of
§ 2333, under which the patent .was issued. The statute does
not except veins or lodes "cla i me4or kfnown to, exist," but
only such as are "known to exist," and it fixes the time at
which such knowledge.i§ to_7e had as that of-the. appli~ation
for the patent, and not that of the date of the patent j to take.
the vein or lode out- of its grant. Section 2333' as stated by
this court when the case was first here, makes provision for
three distinct classes of cases:
1. When one apphes for a placer patent, who is at the tiie
in the possession of a vein or lode included within itj bounda- •
ries, he must state the fact, and then, on payment of-the sum
required foi a vein claim and twenty-five feet on each. side of
it 5t $5.00 an acre, and $2.50 an acre for the placer claim, i
patent will issue to him covering both claim and lode.
2. Where a vein or lode, such as is described ina previous
section, is known to exist at the time within'the boundaries of
the placer claim, the application for a patent therefor, which

IRON SILVER MINING "O. v. REYNOLDS.

383

Opinion of the Court.

does not also include an application for the vein or lode, will
be construed as a conclusive declaration that the claimant of
the placer claim has no right of possession to the vein or lode.
3. Where the existence of a vein or lode in a placer claim is
not known at the time of the application for a patent, that,
instrument will convey all valuable mineral and other deposits
within its boundaries.
The question under this section, which must control and
limit any conflicting exception expressed in the patent, is,
when can it be said that a vein or lode is "known to exist"
within the boundaries of a placer claim for which a patent is
sought. The langnage of the statute appears to be sufficiently
intelligible in a general sense; and yet it becomes difficult of
interpretation when applied to the determination of rights
asserted to such veins or lodes from the possession, or absence,.
of such knowledge at the time application is made for the
patent. At the outset, as stated when the case was here.
before, the inquiry must be whether the alleged knowledge
must be traced to the applicant, or whether it is sufficient that
the existence of the vein or lode was at the time of the application generally known. If general knowledge of such existence should be held sufficient, the inquiry would follow as to
what would constitute such general knowledge, so as to create
an exception to the grant, notwithstanding the ignorance of
the patentee. Such suggestions indicate the difficulties of
some of the questions which may arise in the- application
of the statute.
The court below instructed the jury that-it was unnecessary
to declare what circumstances might be sufficient to affect a
patentee with knowledge as prescribed by the statute, "for,
if, in any case, it appear that an application for a patent is
made with intent to acquire title to a lode or vein which may
exist in the ground beneath the surface of a placer claim, it is
believed a patent issued upon such application cannot operate
to convey such lode or vein;" and further, that "that intention could be formed' only upon investigation as to the character of the ground, and the belief as to the existence of a
valuable lode therein, which would amount to knowledge
under the statute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

This instruction is plainly erroneous. The statute speaks of
acquiring a patent with a knowledge of the existence of a vein
or lode within the boundaries of the claim for which a patent
is sought, not the effect of the intent of the party to acquire a
lode which may or may not exist, of which he has no knowledge. Nor does it render belief, after examination, in the
existence of a lode, knowledge of the fact.
There may be difficulty in determining whether such knowledge in a given case was had, but between mere belief and
knowledge there is a wide difference. The court could not
make them synonymous by its charge and thus in effect incorporate new terms into the statute.
Knowledge of the existence of a. lode or vein within the
boundaries of a placer claim may be obtained from its outcrop
within such boundaries; or from the developments of the
placer claim previous to the application for a patent; or by
the tracing of the vein from another lode; or perhaps from
the general condition and developments of mining ground
adjoining the placer claim. It may also be obtained from the
information of others who have made the necessary explorations to ascertain the fact, and perhaps in other ways. We
do not speak of the sufficiency of any of these modes, but
mention them merely to show that such knowledge may be
had without making hopes and beliefs on the subject its
equivalent. As well observed by the court, when the case
was here before, it is better that all questions as to what kind
of evidence is necessary, and we may add sufficient, to prove
the knowledge required by the statute, should be settled as
they arise.
For the errors mentioned,
The judgment must be -reversed and te
a 'new trial.

case remanded for

