OCTOBER TERMi,

1887.

Syllabus.

may not have given value before maturity for other coupons
of the same bonds, or that he may not have given value for
the bonds before they became due.
There is nothing in that decision which can be made to support the contention of the plaintiff in this case. In the former
action against the present defendant the adjudication was
that the bonds themselves were never signed by the proper
officers required by the statute of the State to sign them, and
therefore they were, not legal obligations of the township.
Their invalidity equally affected the coupons attached to them,
and not merely those in suit, b4 all others. If the plaintiff
could give any evidence consistent with that adjudication,
there would be no objection to his doing so, and the former
action would not estop him; but the bonds being found to be
invalid and void, he is precluded from attempting to show the
contrary, either of the fact of their wanting the signature of
the county clerk, or of the law that for that reason they were
not binding obligations of the municipality. The fact and the
lay are adjudged matters between the parties, and not open,
therefore, to any further contest.
Judgment 4fined.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
ERROR TO TUE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
.Argued December 15, 16, 1887.-Decided January9, 1888.

The entire administration of the system devised by Congress for the collection of captured and abandoned property during the war was committed
by the acts regulatin3 it to the Secretary of the Treasury, subject to
the "President's approval of the rules and regulations relating thereto
prescribed by him, and with no other restriction than that the expenses
charged upon the proceeds of sales be proper and necessary and be
approved.by hin-; and his approval of an account of expenses incurred
on account of any particular lot of such property made before the passage of the j4int resnwition of March 31, 1869, '15 Stat. 251, is conclusive
evidence that they" were proper and necessary, unless it appears that

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Statement of the Case.
their allowance was procured by fraud, or that they were incurred in
violation of an act of Congress or of public policy.
The joint resolution of Congress of Afarch 31, 1868, 15 Stat. 251, affords
evidence that the practice of the Secretary of the Treasury prior to that
date not to cover into the Treasury the sums received from the sale of
captured and abandoned property, but, to retain them in the hands of
the Treasurer in order to pay them out from time to time on the order
of the Secretary, was known to Congress, and was acquiesced in by it,
as to what had been previously done; and all this brings the practice
within the well settled rule that the contemporaneous construction of a
statute by those charged with its execution, especially when it has long
prevailed, is entitled to great weight, and should not be disregarded or
overturned except for cogent reasons, and unless it be clear that such
construction is erroneous.
Settled accounts in the Treasury Department, where the United States have
acted on the settlement, and paid the balance therein found due, cannot
be opened or set aside years afterwards merely because some of the prescribed steps in the accounting, which it was the duty of a head of
a department to see had been taken, had been in fact omitted; or on
account of technical irregularities, when the remedy of the party against
the United States is barred by the statute of limitation, and the remedies
of the United States are intact, owing to its not being subject to an act
of limitation.

THE following was the case as stated by the court.

This writ of error brings up for review a judgment for the

defendant in error in an action brought against him on the
29th (lay of April, 1879, for the value of certain cotton which
came to his hands, as an assistant special agent of the Treasury Department, in the year 1865, and which, it is alleged, he
has not accounted for to*the plaintiff, but converted to his
own use. The defendant became such agent on the 8th of
May, 1865, under a written appointment by the Secretary of
the Treasury. He was charged with the duty of receiving
and collecting such cotton in the counties of Lowndes, Monroe, Oktibbeha, and Noxubee, in the State of Mississippi, as
had been purchased by or was held on account of the so-called
Confederate States Government, and of forwarding the same
to agents of the department at Memphis or Mobile, as, in his
judgment, was best for the government.
His commission was accompanied by a letter of instructions,
requiring him, with as little delay as possible, to ship the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

cotton received or collected to Wim. W. Orme, supervising
special agent at Mobile, "sending forward with each lot an
account of expenses (which will be paid by them), together
with a full record of the cotton shipped, &c., as required by
the fourth regulation concerning captured, abandoned,-and
confiscable personal property." He was informed that his
compensation would be thereafter fixed, and would depend,
in great measure, upon the result of his efforts; but that it
should be reasonable and liberal for the services performed.
The defendant, in his answer, denied that he had omitted
to account for any cotton received or collected by him, as
such agent. For further defence, he alleged that after the
times mentioned in the complaint, and on or about March 15,
1866, a just, true, and full accounting of his acts, as such
agent, was had with the United States, upon which he surrendered all papers, documents, and vouchers in his hands
relating to his agency; that upon such accounting the sum of
$33,972.59 was awarded to him, of which $2186.69 represented
his per diem .llowance, and the balance his commissions; that
said per diem allowance was paid on the 15th of Mlay, 1866,
and said commissions on the 15th of January, 1868; and that
he was thereupon fully released, acquitted, and discharged
from liability of every kind to the government.
By agreement of the parties, the issues were heard and determined, in the first instance, by Hon. William G. Choate,
4s referee, who inade a report of his special findings of fact
and law, accompanied by an elaborate opinion, in support of
the conclusion that the defendant was entitled to a judgment
dismissing the complaint on the merits. The case was subsequently tried by the court- the parties, by written stipulation filed, having waived a jury. The court adopted the special findings of .factmade by the referee, as its own finding.,
and dismissed the-complaint,
The several lots of cotton in question were delivered to one
Stewart, of Mobile, in the latter part of the year 1865. The
circumstanees under which they were delivered were-according to tae findings of fact - as follows: The cotton in the
counties constituting defendant's district was stored at various

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Statement of the Case.

points more or less remote from the Mobile and Ohio Railroad; much of it in very bad condition, requiring rebaling, or

new covering and ropes. In consequence of many impediments, arising from the unsettled state of the country, to the
successful execution by the defendant of his duties by agents
of his own Aelection, he obtained special authority from the
Secretary of the Treasury to make contracts with responsible
persons, for collecting cotton, putting it in shipping order, and
delivering it at the railroad; the contractors to be paid in kind
at the time of delivery, or in money after the cotton had been
sold, and the proceeds realized by the Government. The frst
lots of cotton were shipped to Dexter, the supervising agent
at Mobile. Afterwards, the defendant was directed by the
Secretary to ship, and he did ship, the cotton directly, through
his own agents at Mobile, to Simeon Draper, at New York,
who had been appointed as the general agent of the Treasury
Department to sell all the cotton collected in the South. Defendant's first agents at Mobile were Weaver & Stark; but,
.on August 14, 1865, he appointed one Cuny. The Government did not furnish money to pay the expenses attending
the collection, transportation and shipping. But Cuny undertook with the defendant to settle all bills for railroad freights,
the weighing and pressing of the cotton, and other incidental
expenses connected therewith up to the time of shipment to
New York; and he also agreed with the defendant to furnish
the means necessary to cover .such expenses. He arranged
with Stewart at Mobile to provide means for these purposes,
the latter to be reimbursed from time to time by Government
cotton at the market value. Stewart accordingly made large
advances to Cuny between September 4, 1865, and January 2d,
1866. These advances included $9307. 21 of expenses, which
Dexter, supervising special agent for the Treasury Department for the district in which Mobile was situated, incurred
on cotton from Johnston's district, and which expenses, Dexter insisted, should be paid by the defendant. The latter
at first declined to pay that bill, but subsequently, upon the
advice of Mellen, a general agent of the Treasury Department,
he gold cotton to meet it. Under the arrang-ement between

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Ouny and Stewart, the latter received between October 17,
1865,,nd December 16, 1865, different lots of cotton aggregating 483 bales, which is the cotton now in question, and
gave credit therefor, at its market value, in his account with
Cuny for advances., The total value of this cotton was 882,300.24. Stewart paid the. internal revenue tax of two cents
per pound - $3486.64 - on all except the last one hundred
bales, leaving $79,813.60 as the net value of the cotton, The
first of these transfers to Stewart was without the knowledge
of the defendant, but he subsequently approved-or acquiesced
in what Cuny did. This disposition of the 483 bales was
without authority from the plaintiff, except as to the part used
in meeting Dexter's bill.
The following additional facts were found by the court
below:
"August 18, 1865, the Secretary of the Treasury issued a
general letter of instructions directing all cotton to be forwarded to Simeon Draper, at New York, for sale, and that all
money required by supervising agents to defray expenses
should be sent upon their estimates therefor made to the Secretary on the 1st of each month. In September, 1865, Mr.
Johnston had made an arrangement to draw against Simeon
Draper, at New York, for the expenses on the cotton incurred
at Mobile, including the cost of transportation to Mobile, and
such drafts were drawn accordingly to the amount of upwards
of $150,000 between the 29th of November, 1865, and the 31st
of January, 1866. The drafts included one dollar a bale commission, which defendant paid to Ouny on the cotton shipped
by him after the drafts were paid. To carry out his instructions, that these drafts should be accompanied by vouchers,
sho)ving the details of the expenses drawn for, the receipted
bills of the railroad company paid by Cuny through the advances made by Stewart, and other bills so paid were surrendered, and duplicate receipts were taken to conform to the
shipments to Draper against which drafts were drawn, and
these duplicate vouchers accompanied the drafts. The same
expenses which had thus been paid out of the cotton transferred to Stewart, to the amount of about $68,000, were in-

UNITED STATES v,. JOHNSTON.
Statement of the Case.

eluded in the drafts upon Draper, and by him paid to Johnston,
so that as to these 483 bales the defendant had been a second
time paid by the Government to that extent, the expenses
for the payment of which they had- been transferred to
Stewart.
"On the 11th of January, 1866, the Secretary of the Treasiuy, by letter, called upon the defendant to make up and forward a full'statement of his transactions, and some time in
the month of February, 1866, the defendant and his chief
clerk, Dr. 'Vaughan, went to Washington with their books
and papers, and an account current or summary statement
which had been made up at Columbus, purporting to show the
whole amount of cotton collected by the defendant and the
disposition thereof. - They were referred, by the subordinate
in the Secretary's office in charge of the captured abd abandoned property .division, to the Commissioner of Customs, who,
at that time, under direction of the Secretary, had charge of
the examination and passinj of similar a-ounts. Meanwhile,
however, certain charges against the _.rexndant had been received in the Treasury Department from the War Department,
and the Secretary directed that these charges should be answered before the defendant's account was passed upon, and a
special reference of these charges was made by the Secretary
for examination to a clerk in his office named Parker, since
deceased. These charges were satisfactorily answered, and
the examination of his accounts by the Commissioner of Customs followed. Some objections were made to the form of
the account of cotton collected, and a new account was made
up upon blanks'furnished by the office of that part of the
transactions. In the account current or summary statement
made .up at Columbus, the 483 bales of cotton in question
were stated as follows:
"cSold by IR.H. Cuny, to pay bills of Dexter and others;
483.'
" At the suggestion of the examining officer in the Commissioner's office, a new summary statement was made up by Dr.
Vaughan, dividing this item.into two, namely.:
VOL. c)=-16

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

"' Sold by consent of General Agent Mellen, by R. H.
Cuny, topay Dexter's bill of expenses ......
.55
"'Sold and proceeds paid to officers and garrisons to
secure protection to cotton in their charge, and to
repel thieves ......
..............
.428'
"The only vouchers now remaining on file in the Treasury
Department in support of this last item are two affidavits, one
by the defendant and the other by Dr. Vaughan, the defendant's clerk and chief assistant, sworn to at Washington, during
the pendency of this examination, showing payments to military efficers for extra vigilance in guarding the cotton, protecting it against thieves and raids; copies of which are hereto
annexed, marked schedules C and D. The number of bales
assigned to the item of Dexter's bill does not conform to any
particular lot of cotton, part of the 483 bales transferred to
Stewart, but is substantially correct as representing upon an
average of the net proceeds of the cotton the amount of Dexter's bill.
"There was exhibited to the officers appointed by the Secretary to examine his accounts some proofs of large expenditures of money which, together vith the payments to military
officers, they held to be sufficient to justify them in passing
this item. These expenses, aside from the payments to military officers, aggregated about $68,000, and the military payments about $29,000. These expenses, other than the military
payments, were properly and necessarily incurred by the defendant in the discharge of his duty as assistant special agent
in the care and protection of the cotton after its delivery by
the contractors, and all these payments, including the military
payments, were made necessary by the unsettled state of the
country, the great accumulation of the cotton which the railroad company was unable to transport, the danger of theft and
robbery, and the interference of other agents or persons claiming to be agents of the Treasury Department, and of military
officers. The military payments included $10,000 paid out for
Colonel Young, which, however, was not proved to have been
received by him, and which the defendant collected from the

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Statement of the Case.

contractors. These military payments were all made in the
bona gfwe belief that they were necessary to protect the interest of the United States in the cotton, to secure increased vigilance, or to prevent connivance with parties interfering with
or attempting to interfere with the cotton.
"The result of the examination of the account in the office
of .the Commissioner of Customs was that the Commissioner
wrote to the defendant a letter dated the 15th :March, 1866, as
follows: ' Your property accounts as assistant special agent of
the Treasury at Columbus, Mississippi, from May 8, 1865, to
March 15th, 1866, have this day been examined' in this office
and passed, there being no difference.'
"Upon the receipt of this letter the defendant wrote to the
Secretary, communicating to him the contents of the letter.
received from the Commissioner of Customs, and stating that"
he had presented to Mr. Parker a written, answer to the military charges, and that Mr. Parker expressed himself entirely
satisfied, and that he would so report to the Secretary; and
requested an instruction to Mr. Draper, at New York, to pay
him his commissions' allowed under the regulations on the sales
of such cotton as Mr. Draper had received of his collecting,
when the 'Secretary should receive a report from Mr. Parker.
"To this the Secretary replied under the same date, March
15, 1866, as follows: 'I have received your letter of this date,
advising me that the Commissioner of Customs had favorably
reported on your property account, and that your explanation
of charges made by certain military officers against you has
shown them to be without substantial foundation, and asking
me to instruct the cotton agent at New York to pay you the
commissions allowed by .the regulations of August the, 18th
last, on the sales of such jroperty of your collection as he has
received. It affords me great pleasure to receive so gratifying
a statement in regard to your affairs, and I. have accordingly
this day instructed the Commissioner of Customs to issue a
requisition for your per diem compensation, at the rate of $6
per day, from the date of your appointment, and for such
mileage as you may be entitled to at the rate of ten-cents per
mile. At present no payments on account of commissions or

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1887."
Statement of the Case.

perce ntage are made to any of the agents of the Department,
and I deem it inexpedient.to make an exception to this rule in
any case till sufficient time has elapsed to enable me to examine and understand the whole matter connected with the
collection and forwarding of Government cotton. Just now
my time is too much occupied with other matters of vital
importance, to afford! me an opportunity to give your case
that consideration which justice to yourself, no less than to
the Department, requires.'
"On the same day, the Secretary by letter instructed the
Commissioner of Customs as. follows: ' The compensation of
Rar.ison Johnston, assistant special agent to this Department,
whose appointment is dated May 8, 1865, has been fixed at
$6 per day, with an allowance to cover travelling expenses of
10 cents per mile for all distances actually travelled by him,
and commissions on the cotton collected by him at the same
rate as is allowed to other assistant agents, in accordance with
general letter of iiistructions dated August 18, 1865. You are
accordingly hereby authorized to issue a requisition in the
usual form for his per diem allowan'ce at that rate to date and
for such mileage as he may be entitled to. For the present
no payments on commissions or percentage account are made
to any agents.'
"On the 16th TVarch, 1866, the defendant was directed by
the Secretary ,to answer certain charges made in letters received by the Department from General Agent Mellen, to
which the defendant replied in a letter to the Secretary on the
same day containing the following passage: ' I had the honor
on yesterday to request you to instruct Mr. Draper to pay me
my .commissions, basing that request on the assurance that
my answers to all charges were satisfactory and my property
account correct, not knowing then of these letters from Air.
Mellen. T now beg leave to withdraw the request until you
are fully satisfied of my every official act.'
"No further direct action was taken by the Secretary with
reference to these charges of General Agent Mellen, or the
defendant's reply thereto.
"On the 6th September, 1866, the defendant wrote to the

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Statement of the Case.

Secretary of the Treasury: If there are no l6nger any reasons
for withholding the commissions due me from the sale of
cotton collected by me and forwarded to Mr. Draper, I Will
thank you for an order upon Mr. Draper to pay over to me
commissions due me under regulations of August 18, 1865.'
To which the Secretary replied on the 17th September, 1866:
'The numerous undecided claims upon the cotton collected by
you make it inexpedient to award you at present the promised
commissions on the net proceeds of sale of the amount of your
collections.'
"On the 8th January, 1867, the Secretary wfote the Commissioner of Customs as follows ' Hereafter in the adjustment
of accounts of agents of the Department who have been
engaged in the collection of captured and abandoned property,
you will make no requisition in fairor of any of them for any
balance that may be found due until the details of such
account have been referred to me, and you have .received
further instruetions relative thereto.'
"On the 9th March, 1867, the Secretary wrote to the Commissioner of Customs as follows: 'As the various supervising
and assistant special agents lately in office are claiming the
amounts to which they deem themselves entitled as comissions on the proceeds of property collected by them under my
general letter of instructions of August' 18, 1865, you will
please report to me the names of those whose 'propeity accounts, as well as money accounts, have been satisfactorily
adjusted.' To which the Commissioner replied, on the 1Sth
March, as follows: 'In reply to your inquiry of the 9th inst.,
received this A.m., asking for the names of those agents whose
property accounts have been examined and adjusted, I have
to report that up to the present oiily money accounts have
been adjusted.'
"On the 13th March, 1867, the Secretary wrote to the Commissioner of Customs as follows: ' Referring to your reply of
yesterday to my inquiry of the 9th inst., relative to ihe property accounts of supervising and assistant special. agents, I
now request that you will transmit them to the First Auditor
for immediate examination and adjustment.'

OCTOBER. TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"On the 4th June, 1867, the defendant wrote the Secretary
as follows: ' I desire to be informed whether all claims for
proceeds of cotton from my district have been adjusted, and
whether there is any further objection to the payment of my
commissions as assistant special agent of the Treasury Departmen.' To which, on the 12th June, 1867, the Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury replied: ' The Secretary directs me
to say- that nothing can be done in the matter until the
accounts of the New York agency and the various property
accounts of the supervising special agents are collected and
settled, which he has ordered to be done as speedily as practicable.'
" On the 15th of January, 1868, the Secretary wrote to the
Commissioner of Customs as follows: ' Yot are hereby authorized and instructed to issue a requisition on F. E. Spinner,
Treasurer, and U. S. special agent, in favor of Harrison Johnston, late assistant special agent, for the sum of $26,785.90,
being the balance in fall found due to him for commissions on
the net proceeds of cotton collected by him and sold in New
York on government account in accordance with my letter of
August 18, 1865. Thetotal amount earned by him under that
letter is $31,785.90, on which he has had previously an
advance of $5000. The present requisition is for the balance.
This requisition followed an adjustment of the balance at that
sum communicated to the Secretary by the Commissioner of
Customs in a letter dated January 15, 1868, and requesting a
remittance to cover the same, and this amount was thereupon
paid to Mr. Johnston.'
"On the 16th of August, 1868, the First Auditor addressed
to the Commissioner ot1Customs a letter containing a detailed
statement? of the defenslant's property account, stating that he
had examined and adjusted the same, charging him with
30,610 Iales collected and crediting him with the cotton
shipped to Draper, paid to contractors in kind, and various
other items of credit as in the previous account rendered by
the defendant and passed by the Commissioner of Customs,
and included the following credits:

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

"By cotton sold to pay expenses .......
.55
bales
"
"and proceeds paid military officers for protecting cotton from
being burned and stolen by
428 bales.'
raiders. .........
"At the foot of this account so stated the Commissioner
added:
N. SARGENT,
"'Admitted and certified.
Commissioner of Customs.'
"On the 27th of February, 1869, the. Commissioner of Customs wrote the defendant as follows: ' Your account as assistant special agent of the Treasury Department at Columbus,
Mississippi, on account of captured and abandoned property,
for cotton received and disposed of has been adjusted and
closed on the books of the Department.'"
ZMr. Assistant Attorney General Zaury for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Benjamin -H. Bristow for defendant in error.
David Tillcox was with him on the brief.
MR. JusTmciE HaARx,

-Mr.

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the act of March 13,,1863, 12 Stat. 29, c. 120, providing
for the collection of abandoned property, it was made lawful
for the Secretary of the Treasury, as from time to time he
should see fit, to appoint a special agent or agents to receive
and collect all abandoned or captured property - other than
property used or intended to be used for carrying on war
against the United States - in any portion of any State or
Territory designated as in insurrection against the lawful government of the United States, by the President's proclamation
of July 1, 1862. The second section provided that "any part
of the goods or property received or collected by such agent
or agents may be appropriated to public use on due appraisement and certificate thereof, or forwarded to any place of sale

SOCTOBER TERMf,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

within the loyal states as the public interests may require;
and all sales of such property shall be at auction to the highest bidder, and the proceeds thereof shall be pafd into the
treasury of the United States." The third section directed the
Secretary to cause a book or books of account to be kept,
showing from whom, such property was received, the cost of
transportation, and the proceeds of the sale thereof. The
owner was given the right, within a prescribed period, to prefer his claims to the proceeds in the Court of Claims, and on
proof of his right to the same, and that he had not given any
aid or comfort to the rebellion, " to receive the residue of such
proceeds,, after the deduction of any purchase money which
may have been paid, together with the expense of transportation and, sale of said property, and any other lawful expenses
attending the disposition thereof."
But the act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 3M5, c. 225, greatly enlarged the powers. of the Secretary of the Treasury in reference to captured and abandoned property. The first section
authorized sales of such property, under the act of 1863 to be
made "at such places, in states declared in insurrection, as may
be designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, as well as at
other places," authorized by the original act. In addition to
the j roperty to be received, collected, and disposed of as provided in the act of 1863, the agents, approved by the Secretary, were required to take charge of and lease the abandoned
lands, houses, and tenements within the districts therein
named, and provide, in such leases or otherwise, for the employment and general welfare of all persons, within the lines
of national military occupation in the insurrectionary States,
formerly held as slaves, who are or shall become free. Sec. 2.
It was also provided that all mdneys arising from the, leasing
of abandoned lands, houses, and tenements or from sales of
captured and abandoried property, collected and sold in pursuance of the act of 1863, or of. the act of 1864, "shall, after
satisfying therefrom all proper and necessary expenses to be
approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, be paid into the
treasury, of the United States; and all accounts of moneys
received pr expended in connection therewith shall be audited

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

by the proper accounting 'officers of the treasury." See. 3.
the eleventh section of the same act it is provided that
"the Secretary of the Treasuky, with the approval of the
President, shall make such rules and regulations as are necessary to secure the proper and economical execution of the provisions of this act, and shall defray all expenses of such execu-"
tion from the proceeds of fees imposed by said rules and
regulations, of sales of captured and abandoned property, and
of sales hereinbefore authorized."
It is quite clear'that while the approval of the President
was made essential to the validity of all rules and regulations
in relation to captured and abaiidoned property, the entire administration of the system devised by Congress for the collection of such property, within the insurrectionary districts, and
its sale thereafter, was committed to the Secretary of the
Treasury. Upon him alone was imposed tbe responsibility, in
the first instance, of making rules and regulations for the
"cproper and economical execution" of the statutes in question, through agents whom he should designate. Congress
was aware of the unsettled condition of that part of the country dominated by the military power of the insurrectionary
government, and recognized the necessity of investing some
one officer with full authority to decide what expenses were
fairly chargeable against the proceeds of captured and abandoned property. Such authority was conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury, subject to no other restriction than
that the expenses charged upon the proceeds of sales be
"proper anl necessary," and be approved by him. But no
rule was prescribed for his guidance in determining what expenses were to be regarded as of that character ; for the reason, perhaps, that as each collection and sale of captured and
abandoned property must depend upon its special circumstances, it was not practicable to establish a rule that would
control every case. As no expenses could e charged against
the proceeds of any sale except upon the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, and as his discretion must have been
exercised with reference to the special facts of each case, his
approval of an account of expenses in relation to the collection

-By

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and sale of any particular lot of captured and abandoned property should be deemed conclusive evidence that such expenses
were proper and necessary, unless it appeared that the allowance of such expenses was procured by fraud, or that the expenses were incurred in violation of some'positive statute, or
of public policy. It is impossible to suppose that Congress
intended that every such account -after being approved by
the Secretary- should be subject to review by some subordinate officer of the Treasury, or even'by the courts, and to be
disallowed, merely because in the judgment of that officer, or
of the courts, such expenses should not have been incurred.
It is, however, contended that the words in the third section of the act of 1864, "all accounts of moneys received or
expended in connection therewith shall be audited by the
proper accounting officers of the Treasury," negative the supposition that those officers cannot disallow expenses incurred
in the collection and sale of captured and abandoned property,
which the Secretary may have approved as proper and necessary: *By "proper accounting officers of the Treasury" in
that statute, it is contended, is meant the First Auditor and
the First Comptroller It is consequently argued that the.
settlement upon which the defendant relies constitutes no obstacle to the examination of the items of his accounts.
The act of March 3, 1817, c. 35, § 2, 3 Stat. 366, provides that "all claims and demands whatever by the United
States, or against them, and all accounts whatever in which
the United States are concerned, either as debtors or creditors,
shall be settled and adjusted in the Treasury Department."
By the same act, it was made one of the duties of the First
Comptroller to examine all accounts settled by the First
Auditor, and certify the balances arising.thereon to the Register. And among the duties of the First Auditor is that of
receiving and examining all accounts accruing in the Treasury
l)epartment, certifying the balance due on such accounts, and
transmitting the same, with the vouchers and certificates, to
the First Comptroller for his decision thereon. These provisions have been preserved, and constitute §§ 236, 269,
and 277 of the Revised Statutes. It is contended in behalf

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the defendant, that the accounts which the third section
of the act of 1864 required to be "audited by the proper accounting officers of the Treasury" were strictly money accounts, as
distinguished from property accounts; whereas the accounts
of the defendant, in respect of the 483 bales of cotton in question belong, it is insisted, to the latter class. The referee in
his opinion says:
"What took place in this case was this: The defendant
having finished the work of his agency, was called upon by
the Secretary of the Treasury to settle his property accounts.
The defendant presented himself at the Treasury Department,
appeared before the officers designated by the Secretary for
the purpose of adjusting accounts of that character,and put in
a claim to b& credited with the 483 bales in question. As to
this he claimed that he had expended on behalf of the Government, and as necessary disbursements in the execution of the
duties of his agency, a sum considerably exceeding the value
of the 483 bales for which he acknowledged himself liable to
account. It would have been competent and proper for the
Secretary, or the accounting officer, to have treated this claim
for disbursements as a money account, which would then, according to the routine of the office at that time, have gone to
the First Auditor for examination. That this was not done is,
however, at most an irregularity. The Secretary had authority and jurisdiction, however, to settle and adjust the
defendant's property account, and this he did, making this
offset or allowance. He thereby necessarily passed and approved the expenses in question, both as to their nature as
necessary and proper and as to their amount; and by the
statute this question was confided to his exclusive determination. Upon the basis of this adjustment of the property account the defendant's account for commissibns was duly
adjusted and paid by order of the Secretary. In fact, the
Department twice thus acted on the basis of the adjustment
of the defendant's property account."
While there is much force in this view of the case, we do
not deem it necessary to decide whether the accounts of defendant, in respect to the 483 bales of cotton, were required

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

by the statute of 1864: to be audited by *theFirst Auditor and
transmitted to the First Comptroller for his decision thereon.
If the act of 1864 should be held to have required this, it would
not follow that those officers could have disregarded the action
of the Secretary of the Treasury in allowing the expenses
in question. In auditing those: accounts, they would have
been bound to regard such action of the Secretary as final.
What was said in United States v. Jones, 18 How. 92, 96, may
be repeated here, as applicable to accounts which have been
finally acted upon by a head of department, invested with authority in the premises. There the question was as to the
right of accounting officers to review the action of the Secretary of the Navy in approving certain disbursements made
by an officer of the Navy in conformity with tie orders of
the Secretary. This court said: "The accounting officers of
the Treasury have not the burden of responsibility cast upon
them of revising the judgments, correcting the supposed mistakes, or annulling the orders of heads of departments." See
.2fcEnight v. United States, 13 C. Cl. 292, 298, 309.
But, waiving any decision as to the power of accounting
officers, under the act of 1864, it is sufficient for this case to say
that the Secretary of the Treasury proceeded upon the ground
that the defendant's accounts in reference to this cotton were
property accounts, the settlement of which belongel to him
exclusively, and that such settlement could be made by him
personally, or through such of his subordinates as he might
designate for that purpose. In Rice, Assignee, v. United
Sates, 21 0. CL. 413, 419, it was said by Richardson, C. J.,
who was entirely familiar with the mode of conducting business in the Treasury Department, that "while Mr. Chase was
Secretary of the Treasury, and for some time afterwards, the
money received from captured and abandoned property was
merely deosited wiih the Treaurer,and was not technically,
in departmental language, 'covered into the Treasury;' and
so, according to the construction then given by the Department, was not subject to the constitutional provision that,
'no money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law.' Constitution, Art. I.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 9, par. 6. :M]ore than two and a half millions of it was paid
out by Secretaries Chase, Fessenden, and McCulloch (Hodges'
Case, 18 0. 01. 704) without any appropriations therefor, when
Congress interposed and passed the joint resolution of March
31, 1868. 15 Stat. 251." By that joint resolution, it was provided that "all moneys which have been received by any officer or employ6 of the Government, or any Department thereof,
from sales of captured and abandoned property in the late
insurrectionary districts, under or under color of the several
acts of Congress providing for the collection and sale of such
property, and which have not already been actually covered
into the Treasury, shall immediately be paid into the Treasury
of the United States, together with any interest which has
been receive4 or accrued thereon." The language of this resolution affords some evidence that Congress was aware of the
manner in which the several acts relating to captured and
abandoned property had been executed, and did not intend to
disturb what had been previously done under the practice prevailing in the Treasury Department.
In view of the foregoing facts the case comes fairly within
the rule often announced by this court, that the -contemporaneous construction of a statute by those charged with its
execution, especially when it has long prevailed, is entitled
to great weight, and should not be disregarded or overturned
except for cogent reasons, and unless it be clear that such con-,
struction is erroneous. Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206,
210; l2ited States v. _Moore, 95 U. S. 760; H-ahnz v. United
States, 107 U. S. 402 ; United States v. Phillrick,120 U. S. 52,
59.
We have said that the approval by the Secretary of the
Treasury of an agent's account of expenses in the collection
and sale of captured and abandoned property would not be
conclusive, if it appeared either that such approval was procured by fraud, or that such expenses were incurred in violation of some positive statute, or in contravention of public
policy. Much was said at the argument to the effect that the
transactions of the defendant were based' upon fraud; that
he withheld or suppressed evidence that it was in his power

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to produce; and that what he did was calculated to debauch
military officers to whom money was paid by him for the performance of services, in respect to which they were forbidden
by law to accept compensation. It is only necessary to say
that the findings of fact do not sustain these propositions.
The record contains nothing to justify this court in holding
that the defendant had been guilty of any fraud that would
invalidate the settlement of his accounts with the Government.
Taking the findings of fact to be correct, as is our duty to do,
we must assume that the payments made by the defendant,
of the allowance of which complaint is now made, "were made"
necessary by the unsettled state of the country, the great
accumulation of the cotton which the railroad company was
unable to transport, the danger of theft and robbery, and the
interference of other agents or persons claiming to be agents
of the Treasury Department, and of military officers;" and,
in- reSpect to what are called military payments, that they
"were all made in the bona jde belief that they were necessary to protect the interests of the United States in the cotton,
to secure increased vigilance, or to prevent connivance with
partie' interfering with or attempting to interfere with the
cotton." The utmost that the record establishes is that there
were- irregularities, perhaps carelessness, in the final closing
of defendant's account with the G6vernment. It may be that
he should have been required to present more satisfactory evidence than it may be supposed from the record he did in fact
present. These considerations, however, even if entitled to
weight as matter of law, lose much force after the lapse of
years without action upon them by the Government. The
defendant ought not now to be held to the same strictness of
proof that might justly have been required of him when all
the circumstances connected with the cotton in question could
have been readily established by competent evidence. We
ar6 of opinioil-that no case is made by the Government to invalidate the settlement of defendant's accounts. We concur
with the referee -when he says that "it would be an exceedingly dangerous doctrine that settled accounts where the
United States had acted on the settlement and paid the bal-

UNITED STATES, v. GLEESON.
Statement of the Case.

ance found due on the basis of that settlement, could be opened
or set aside, merely because some of the prescribed steps- in
the accounting which it was the duty of -a head of a department to see had been taken, had been in fact omitted; or, if
,they could be so opened and set aside on account of technical
irregularities in the allowance of expenses years afterwards,
when the remedy of the party against the United States is
barred by the statute of limitations, and the remedies of the
United States on 'the other side are intact, owing to its not
being subject to any act of limitation."
The facts found .being sufficient to support the judgment,
itis

UNITED STATES v. GLEESON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CIAIS.
Submitted January 4,1888.-Decided January 16, 1883.

On appeal by the United States from a judgment of the Court of Claims
against them for less than three thousand dollars, rendered pro forma,
against the opinion of that court, and for the purpose of an appeal, this
court, upon objection taken in behalf of the United States to the irregularity of the actions of the court below, reverses the judgment, and remands
the case for further proceedings according to law.

Tis was an appeal by the United States from a judgment
of the Court of Claims upon the petition of Jafies M. T. Gleeson, a clerk of the Post-Office Department, claiming arrears of
salary. Upon. the proofs in the cause, the Court of Claims
made a finding of facts, in substance as follows:
On NVovember 15, 1871, the claimant, by an order of the
Post-Office Department addressed to him, was "designated a
railway post-office head clerk on cars, between Washington,
D. C., and Lynchburg, Va. Pay $1400 per annum." He entered upon his duties under that order, and continued to serve
until May 23, 1883.
On August 14, 1876, one of the blank printed forms, used
by the department to notify railhvay post-office head clerks of

