OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Syllabus.

of the adversary proceeding in e artes, which constitutes a
suit in which the contrdversy takes on the form of a judicial
proceeding. Because under the Colorado law the appointment of the commissioners is a step in the suit after the filing
of the petition and the service of summons upon the defendant. It is an adversary judicial proceeding from the beginning. The appointment of commissioners to ascertain the
compensation is only one of the modes by which it is to be
determined. The proceeding is, therefore, a suit at law from
the time of the filing of the petition and the service of process
upon the defendant.
The precise question involved here was passed upon and
satisfactorily dealt with by the Circuit Judge in the Circuit
-Court for the District of Colorado in the case of the Colorado
M2idland Rai way Co. v. Jones, 29 Fed. Rep. 193, and by the
Circuit Court for the Western District 6f Michigan by the
District Judge, Brown, in the case of The fineral Range
Railroad Co. v. The Detroit and _Lake Suerior Copver Co.,
25 Fed. Rep. 515.
The case was properly removed, and the motion to remand
erroneously granted.. The judgment of the Circuit Court
thereon is accordingly
Revered, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Cwrt with
directions to proceed therein.

IN RE SAWYER and Others.
ORIGIN'AL.
.Argued December 12, 1887. - Decided January9, 1888.

A court of equity has no jurisdiction of a bill to stay criminal proceedings.
A court of equity has no jurisdiction of a bill to restrain the removal of a
public officer.
The Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction or authority to
entertain a bill in equity to restrain the mayor and committee of a city

IN

RE SAWYER.

Statement of the Case.
In Nebraska from removing a city officer upon charges filed against him
for malfeasance in office; and an injunction issued upon such a bill, as
well as an order committing the defendants for contempt in disregarding
the injunction, is absolutely void, and they are entitled to be discharged
on habeascorpus.

Tris was a petition for a writ of habeas cor.pus, in behalf of
the mayor and eleven members of the city council of the city
of Lincoln in the State of Nebraska, detained and imprisoned
in the jail at Omaha in that state by the marshal of. the
United States for the.District of Nebraska, under an order of
attachment for contempt, made by -the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district, under the following circumstances:
On September 24, 188'(, Albert F. Parsons presented to the
Circuit Judge a bill in equity against said mayor and councilmen, the whole of which, except the title, the address and the
signature, was as follows:
"Your petitioner is, and for more than fifteen years last
past has been, a citizeii of the United States, and a resident
and citizen of the State of Nebraska, and as such citizen has
been and is entitled to the equal protection of the laws, and to
life, liberty and property; nor could he be deprived thereof'
without due process of law, nor denied the same within the,
jurisdiction of the United States or of the State of Nebraska.
"On tie day of April, 1886, this complainant was duly
aid legally elected to the office of police judge of the city of
Linc oln, in I ancaster County, Nebraska, and soon thereafter,
did duly qua;ify and enter into the discharge of his duties a'
such police judge; and ever since, and yet at this'time, com-plainant has held and exercised all the functions and performed
all the duties of the said office; and for the last six months
and more all of the respondents except the said Andrew J.
Sawyer have been and yet are the duly elected, qualified and
acting councilmen of the said city, and the said Sawyer has
been and yet is the duly elected, qualified and acting mayor
of the said city.
day of August, 1887, and for a long time
"On the prior thereto, there was a certain ordinance lin the said city in

OCTOBER TERM, 1887,
Statement of the Case.

full force, relating to the removal from office of any official
of the said city, and which said ordinance provided that no
officer of said city should be put upon trial for any offence
charged against him, except before all the members of the said

city council.
"On the 7day of August, 1887, one John Sheedy, Gus.
Saunders and A. J. Hyatt filed in writing with the city clerk
of said city certain charges against this complainant, charging
this complainant with appropriating the moneys of the said
city, and' a copy of which is hereto attached and made a part
hereof; 1 and said mayor thereupon referred the said matter
1 To the Honorable Mayor and Council of the City of Lincoln:

Your petitioners, John Sheedy and A. Saunders, respectfully represent to
this honorable body, that they are citizens and resident taxpayers of the
city of Lincoln; and your petitioners would further represent that on the
13th day of July, 1887, they employed a skilful accountant, one ,M. M.
White, a resident and taxpayer of this city, to examine into the dockets and
files and reports of A. F. Parsons, police judge of this city of Lincoln, to
learn whether said A. F. Parsons, police judge, was making true and proper
statements to the city of the business done by him as police judge, and to
further ascertain whether or not said A. ). Parsons, police judge, had
turned over to the city and county treasurers all moneys coming into his
hands as -fines and properly belonging to the city and county.
And your petitioners say trat after a proper and careful examination of
the files and dockets and reports of said A. F. Parsons, police judge, they
have ascertained beyond question that said A. F. Parsons, police judge, has
appropriated to his own use and benefit large sums of money which is the
property of the city of Lincoln, and that he now has and keeps for his own
use moneys which he has collected as fines from persons brought before
him as police judge for violating the city ordinances.
And your petitioners say that the said A. F. Parsons, as police judge,
collected fines for the violation of the city ordinances, in the months of
August, September, October, November and December, 1886, which fines
and pioneys he has appropriated to his own use, and has utterly failed to
keep any record or account of the same or to account to the city, or turn
over to the city treasurer any of the moneys so appropriated, as is required
by law.
I And your petitioners say that in the months of April, May and June,
1887, the said A. F. Parsons received fines from divers persons, as police
judge, which he has appropriated to his own. use, and had wholly failed to
keep any record of said fines or to account to the city for the same.
And your petitioners say that the said A. F. Parsons, as police judge,
collected fines from divers persons in the month of May, 1887, and the

203'

IN RE, SAWYER.
Statement of the Case.

to a committee of only three of the members of the said council,
to make a finding of fact and law upon the said charges; and
said committee of three caused a notice to be served upon your
complainant, requiring him to appear and defend himself before
them; and complainant did appear before said committee, and
then objected to the jurisdiction of the said committee, that
they had no right or authority to render a verdict of the fact
against him, or give judgment of law upon the said charges,
or to hear or determine the said trial; And thereupon the
said committee reported back the said charges to said mayor
and council, that the said committde, under the charter to the
said city, bad no right or authority to render a verdict or judgment upon the said charges. But the said Sheedy and Saunders, who are, and for more than ten years have been, common
gamblers in the said city, and are men of large wealth and
months of March and April, 1887, and the month of September, 1886, which
fines he has appropriated to his own use and benefit, and has wholly failed
to keep any record of the said fines, or to make any report to the city of
the same.
And your petitioners say that the said A. F. Parsons has been polic(,
judge since April, 1886, and that during that time be has collected fines for
the violation of statutes of Nebraska to the amount of $329, according
to his dockets, and up to the 19th day of July, 1887, he had turned in to the
county treasurer of Lancaster County but the sum of $15; whereas he had
In his possession on the 1st day of July, 1887, the said sum of $314, which
properly belonged to the county.
And your petitioners say that on said 19th day of July, 1887, the day on
which the accountant M. Al. White completed the investigation of the said
police judge's dockets, said Parsons paid into the county.treasury the sum
of $195, which leaves due the county the sum of $119, which was in his
possession on the 19th day of July, 1887.
Your petitioners therefore ask that the Honorable Mayor and Council
may appoint a committee of your honorable body, and that a time and place
be mentioned on which to take testimony inquiring into the conduct of A.
F. Parsons as police judge and to investigate the management of his office,
and to give the said A. F. Parsons and your petitidners notice of such time
and place, and your petitioners will appear with the evidence and testimony
proving the facts hereinbefore stated.

A.

SAUNDIRS.

JoMi SHEEDY.

A. J.

HYATT.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

day of
influence in said city! council, at once and on the August, 188T, and long after said complaint against this complainant had been filed, and- long after said committee had
reported back to said mayor and city council that they had
no right, power or authority to hear said trial or to render
either verdict or judgment in said proceedings, did procure the
passage of another and different and ex post facto ordinance,
granting to the said committee of three, instead of the council
of twelve members, as by said ordinance required, the right
and power to try the facts as alleged in said charges and make
a report thereon, and, if in their judgment they saw fit, to
report to said mayor and city council that the office of the
police judge should be declared vacant, and that the said
mayor should fill the office of the said police judge, now occupied by your complainant, with some other person.
"And after the passage of this .ex post facto law, said coininittee of three assumed jurisdiction to render a verdict of
fact, and to hear and determine the said charges, and add
thereto a conclusion of law, and notified this complainant to
again appear and defend himself before the said committee,
and this complainant then and there again objected to the
jurisdiction of said committee to make any finding of facts
against him, or to render any judgment or report thereon,
upon the ground that said new ordinance was ex post facto,
and that said committee had no jurisdiction. *
"On the 19th day of September, 1887, the said committee,
having heard before themselves, denying to complainant a
trial to a jury, and the evidence for the prosecution of the said
action by certain gamblers and pimps, no material evidenfe
for the prosecution being offered to them otherwise, did render
a finding of fact against this complainant, and recommending
to said mayor and city council that the office of police judge
should be declared vacant, and that the said mayor should fill
the said office by the appointment of some other person than
complainant, and found that said ordinance was not ex pot
facto; and the said mayor and city council have set the matter' for, final vote on Tuesday, the 27th day of September,
1887, and threaten and declare that on the said day they will

IN

RE SAWYER.

Statement of the Case.

declare the office of the said complainant vacant, without
hearing or reading the evidence taken before said committee,
and appoint some other person to fill the same, and which report untruthfully states that all their evidence is filed therewith, and fraudulently so to suppress a certain book offered in
evidence by-complainant, which book is in the handwriting of
said Gus. Saunders, and which is done to favor and aid and
protect said gamblers, and to fraudulently obtain the removal
of complainant from his said office.
"This comrplainant says that all of the said proceedings,
trial, verdict, and other acts and doings of the said city coun,as well as the
cil, and the ordinance approved
said ordinance approved August -, 1887, were and are ilegal and void, and contrary to, and in conflict with, and prohibited by, the Constitution of the United States, whereby
among other things it is provided that no person shall be
deprived of life, liberty or property without due pocess of
law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction equal protection of the law, nor be adjudged of or tried for any offence
by an exyostfacto law; and complainant says that forasmuch
as by the Constitution of the United States it is provided that
no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law, and that in all criminal prosecutions
the accused shall have the right of process to compel the attendance of witnesses in his behalf, and a speedy trial by an
impartial jury of the county in which the offence is alleged to
have been committed, and that no ex post facto law shall be
passed, and that all of said rights shall remain inviolate, but
such rights being denied by said ordinance and proceedings
aforesaid to this complainant, he has been and is, and is
threatened to be, deprived of such rights without due process
of law, and that the same is ex post facto law, within the
.meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and which
protection has nor is not accorded to this complainant, he has
been by said proceedings, and yet is, deprived of the equal
protection of the laws.
"All of which illegal and oppressive acts .and things are in
violation of and in conflict with the Constituiion of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

States, and ought to be redressed by the judicial powers thereof.
"Wherefore complainant prays that a writ of injunction
may be allowed by your honor to be issued out of this honorable court, under the seal thereof, directed to the respondents
and all thereof, that they proceed no further with the charges
against this complainant, and that no vote be had by the city
council or the said defendants upon the pretended findings of
the facts, verdict or report, and filed September 19th, 1887,
with the said city clerk, handed in by Councilnau Billingsley,
and that said defendants nor any of them do not declare said
office vacant, or in any way or fdanner proceed further with
said charges, nor appoint any person to fill said office; that
said defendants may appear and answer this yor complainant's bill, but answer under oath being expressly waived; that
on the final hearing of this action said injunction be made perpetual, and that the defendants pay the costs of this action,
and that the-complainant have such other, further and different relief as justice may require."
Annexed to the bill was an affidavit of Parsons that he had
read it, and knew all the facts therein set forth, and that the
same were true.
Or reading the bill, the Circuit Judge ordered that the defendants show' cause before the.-Circuit Court, why a preliminary injunction should not issue as prayed for, "and that in
the mean time, and until the further order of the court, they
be restrained from doing any of the matters sought to be
enjoined."
In accordance with the prayer of the bill and the order of
the jndgo, an injunction was forth with issued and served upon
the mayor and councilmen.
After this, at a meeting of the city council held for the purpose, the mayor and councilmen proceeded to take up and
consider the charges against Parsons, and, after consideriig
the evidence, passed a resolution by which they "find that
said Parsons received a number of fines for the violation of
the city ordinances, which he failed to turn in to or report to
the city treasurer at times required by law, and specified in

IN RE SAWYER.
Statement of the Case.

the charges against said Parsons," and "that his arrangement
with the gamblers and prostitutes, that if they would pay a
fine monthly they would not otherwise be molested, was in
direct violation of law, and calculated to bring the city government into disgrace;" and "therefore confirm the report of
the committee who reported to this council on the charges
against said Parsons, and declare the office of police judge of
the city of Lincoln vacant, and request the mayor to fill the
office with some competent person." Thereupon the mayor
nominated, and the council on motion confirmed, H. J. Whitmore to be police judge, to fill the vacancy; and the mayor
issued an order to the city marshal, informing him that Whitmore had been duly qualified and given bond and been commissioned as police judge, and directing him to see that he be
duly installed in his office. Parsons declining to recognize the
action of the city council, or to surrender the office, the city
marshal forcibly ejected him and installed Whitmore.
Upon an affidavit of Parsons, charging the mayor and
councilmen with wilful and contemptuous violation of the
injunction, stating the above facts, and accompanied by a copy
of a notice to him from the city clerk, setting forth the resolution of the city council, and the nomination and confirmation
of Whitmore, as well as by a copy of the mayor's order to the
city marshal, the Circuit Court issued a rule to the mayor and
councilmen to show cause why they should not be attached
for contempt. Upon their answer to that rule, under oath,
producing copies of the ordinances undei which they acted,
(the material parts of which are set forth in the margin,')
The original ordinance contained these sections:
"SEc. 1. Whenever any officer of the city of Lincoln, whose office is
elective, shall be guilty of any wilful misconduct or malfeasance in office,
he may be removed by a vote of two thirds of all the members elected to
the council; .Provided, that no such officer'shall be removed from office
unless charges in writing, specifying the misconduct or nature of the nialfeasance, signed by the complainant, and giving the name of at least one
witness besides the complainant, to support such charges, shall be filed with
the city clerk, president of the council, or mayor, which charge and specifioations shall be read at a regular meeting of tue council, and a copy thereof,
certified by said clerk, president of the council, or mayor, accompanied with a

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

admitting and justifying their disregard of the injunction, and
suggesting a want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court to make
the restraining order, the court granted an attachment for
their arrest; and, upon a hearing, found them guilty of
violating the injunction, and adjudged that six of them pay
notice to show cause, at the next regular meeting of said council, why he
shall not be removed from office, shall be served upon the officer so accused
at least five days before the time fixed to show cause.
"SEC. 2. In case the said accused officer shall neglect to appear and file
a denial in writing, or render a reason for not doing so, at the first regular
meeting of said council after being duly notified, the said charge and
specifications shall be taken as true, and the council shall declare the office
vacant.
" SEc. 3. In case said officer shall file a denial of said charge and specifications in writing, the council shall adjourn to some day for the trial of said
officer; and if upon the trial of said officer said council shall .be satisfied
that he is guilty of any misconduct wilfully, or malfeasance in office, they
shall cause such finding to be entered upon their minutes, and shall declare
said office vacant, and shall proceed at once to fill such vacancy in the manner provided by statute and ordinance.
" SEC. 4. All proceedings and notice in the matter of such charges may
be served by the marshal or any policeman, and the return of any such
officer shall be sufficient evidence of the service thereof; servic' and return
shall be in the manner provided by law for the service of sumhnonses iu
justice's courts."
By the ordinance of August 24. 1887, section 3 of the former- ordinance
was repealed, and the following amendment substituted:
1"In case said officer shall file a denial of the sgid charges and specifications in writing, the council, or the committee of the council, to whom said
charges shall have been referred, shall appoint some day for thd trial of said
officer, and if upon the trial of said officer said council or said committee
shall be satisfied that he is guilty of any misconduct wilfully, or malfeasance or misfeasance in office, the council shall cause its findings, or the
findings of said committee, to be entered upon the minutes of the council,
and the council.shall declare th said office vacant and the said officer
removed therefrom. The council shall then forthwith cause the mayor to
be notified that the said office is vacant and that said officer is so removed.
When the mayor is so notified, the said office shall be filled by appointment
of the mayor by the assent of the council; and such person so appointed
shall hold said office until the next general election, and as in such case by
statute and ordinance made and provided. If the officer against whom said
charges are made shall appear and defend against the same, he shall Aeld
and deemed to have waived all irregularities of proceedings, if any, as do
not affect the merits of his defence."

IN RE SAWYER.
Opinion of the Court.

fines of six hundred dollars each, and the others fines of fifty
dollars each, beside costs, and in default of payment thereof
stand committed to the custody of the marshal until the fines
and costs should be paid, or they be otherwise legally discharged. They did not pay the fines or costs, and were
therefore taken and held in custody by the marshal.
The petition for a writ of habeas oorpus alleged "that the
court had no jurisdiction of said suit commenced by the said
Albert F. Parsons against your petitioners, and that said
restraining order was not a lawful order, and thai said judgment of said court that your petitioners were in contempt, and
the sent(' ce of said court that your petitioners pay a fine and
suffer imprisonment for violating said restraining order, is
void, and wholly without the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of the United States, and in violation of the Constitution of
the United States;" and further alleged "as special circum-"
stances, making direct action and intervention of this court
necessary and expedient, that it would be -useless to apply to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Nebraska for a writ of habeas corqus, because both the Circuit
and District Judges gave it as, their opinion in the contempt
proceedings that the said restraining order was a lawful order
and within the power of the court to make."
7f&. G. X. Lambertson for petitioners.
.Ar. L. C. Burr opposing, on behalf of Parsons.
Ym. JusTinc. GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by this petition of the mayor and
councilmen of the city of Lincoln for a writ of ;,,1eas corpas
is whether it was within the jurisdiction and author,'y of the
Circuit Court of 'the United States, sitting as a court of equity,
to make the order under-which the petitioners are held by the
marshal.
Under the Constitution and laws of the United States, the
distinction between common law and equity, as existing in
VOL. cXXIv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion. of the Court.

England at the time of the separation of the two countries,
has been maintained, although both jurisdictions are vested in
the same courts. Penn v. Holme, 21 How. 481, 484-487;
Tomplson. v. Ra'lroad Co., 6 Wall. 134; Heine v. Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655.
The office and jurisdiction of a court of equity, unless enlarged by express statute, are limited to the protection of
rights Qf property. It has no jurisdiction over the prosecu:
tion, the punishment or the pardon of crimes or misdemeanors,
or over the appointment and -removal of public officers. To.
assume such a jurisdiction, or to sustain a bill in equity to
restrain or relieve against proceedings for the -punishment of
offences, or for the- removal of public officers, is to invade the
domain of the courts of common -law, or of the executive and
administrative department of the government.
Any jurisdiction over criminal matters, that tho -English
Court of Chancery ever had, became obsolete long ago, except
as incidental to its peculiai- jurisdiction for the protection of
infants, or under its authority to issue writs of habeaq corpus
for the discharge of persong unlawfully imprisoned. 2 Hale
P. C. 14'7; Gee v. Pritcha.rd,2 Swanston, 402, 413; 1 Spence
Eq. Jur. 689, 690; Attorney Oenr&al v. Utica ins. Co., 2
Johns. Oh. 371, 378.
From long before the Declakation of-. Independence, it has
been settled in England, that a bill to stay criminal proceedings is not within the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery,
whether those proceedings are by indictment or by summary
process.
Lord Chief -Justice Holt, in declining, upon a motion in the
Queen's Bench for an attachment against an attorney for
professional niisconduct, to make it a part of the rule -to show
cause that he should-not move for an injunction in chancery
in the mean -time, said, "Sure chancery would not grant an
injunction in a criminal matter under examination in this
court; and if they did, this court would break it, and protect
any that would proceed in. contempt of it." IHolderst ffe v.
Saunders, Cas. temp. Holt, 136; S. G. 6 Mfod. 16.
Lord Chancellor Hardwicke, while exercising the power of

IN' RE /SAWYER.

211-•

Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Chancery, incidental to the disposition of a case
pending before it, of restrainin& a plaintiff, who had by his
bill submitted lhis rights to its determination, from proceeding
as to the same matter before another tribunal, either by
indictment or by action, asserted in th, strongest terms the
want of any power or jurisdiction to entertain a bill for an
injunction to stay criminal proceedings, saying, "This court
has not originally, and strictly, any restraining power over
criminal prosecutions;" and again, "This court has no jurisdiction to grant an injunction to stay proceedings on a mandamus; nor to an indictment,; nor to an information; nor to a
writ of prohibition; that I knoWv of." &ayor & Corporation
of York v. Pilkingtonz, 2 Atk. 302; S. 0. 9 Mod. 273; _Afontague v. .Dudman, 2 Ves. Sen. 396, 398.
The modern decisions in England, by eminent equity judges,
concur in holding that a court of chancery has no power to
restrain criminal proceedings, unless they are instituted by a
party to a suit already pending before it, and to try the same
right that is in issue there. Attorney General v. Cleaver, 18
Ves. 211, 220; T'rner v. Turner, 15 Jurist, 218; Saull v.
Browne, L. R. 10 Oh. 64; -Yerr v. Preston, 6 Oh. D. 463.
Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on Equity Jurisprudence, affirms the same doctrine. Story Eq. Jur. § 893.
And in the American courts, so far 'as we are informed, it has
been strictly and uniformly upheld, and has been applied alike
whether the prosecutions or arrests sought to be restrained
arose under statutes of the State, or under municipal ordinances. Tfest v. layor &c. of _New York, 10 Paige, 539;
-Davis v. American Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
.Animals, -75 N. Y. 362; Tyler v. Hamersley, 44 Conn. 419,
422; Stuart v. Board of Supervisors, 83 Illinois, 341; -Devron.
v. First .Municaleaity, 4 La. Ann. 11; Levy v. Shrev.eport, 2'
La. Ann. 620; NAoses v. .Mayor &c. of _M3bile,.52 Alabama,
198; Gault v. lfallis, 53 Georgia, 675; Phtillp.q v. -Mayor
&o. of Stone -Mountain,61 Georgia, 386; Colwn v. Goldsboro
Commissioners,'77 No. Car. 2; Tfaters Peirce Oil Co. v. Little
Bock, 39 Arkansas, 412; ASjink v. Francis,19 Fed. Rep. 670,
and 20 Fed. Rep. 567; Suess v. Noble,'31 Fed. Rep. 855.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It is equally well settled that a court of equity has no jurisdiction over the appointment and removal of public officers,
whether the power of removal is vested, as well as that of
appointment, in executive or administrative boards or officers,
or is entrusted to a judicial tribunal. The jurisdiction to determine the title to a public office belongs exclusively to the
courts of law, and is exercised either by certioranr, error, or
appeal, or by mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto, or information in the nature of a writ of quo warranto, according
to the circumstances of the case, and the mode of procedure
established by the common law or by statute.
No English case has been found of a bill for an injunction
to restrain the appointment or removal of a municipal officer.

But an information in the Court of Chancery for the regulation of Harrow School, within its undoubted jurisdiction, over
public charities, was dismissed, so far as it sought a removal
of governors unlawfully elected, Sir William Grant saying:
"This court, I apprehend, has no jurisdiction with regard
either to the election or. the amotion of corporators of any
description." Attorney General v. Clarendon, 1 Yes. 491,
498.
In the courts of the several States, the power of a court of
equity to restrain by injunction the removal of a'munioipal
officer has been deiiied in many well considered cases.
Upon a bill in equity in the Court of Chancery of the State
of New York by a lawfully appointed inspector of flour,
charging that he had been ousted of his office by one unlawfully appointed in his stead by the governor, and that the
new appointee was insolvent, and praying for an injunction, a
receiver, and an account of fees, until the plaintiff's title to
the office could be tried at law, Vice Chancellor McCoun
said: "This court may not have jurisdictioh to determine that
question, so as to render a judgment or decree of ouster of
the office;" but he overruled a demurrer, upon the ground
that the bill showed a primafacietitle in the plaintiff. Ta _pan v. Gray, 3 Edw. Ch. 450. On appeal, Chancellor Walworth reversed the decree, "upon the ground that at the time
of the filing of this bill the Court of Chancery had no juris-

IN RE SAWYER.
Qpinion of the Court.

diction or power to afford him any relief." 9 Paige, 507,
509, 512. And the Chancellor's decree was unanimously
affirmed by the Court of Errors, upon Chief Justice Nelson's
statement that he concurred with the Chancellor respectig
the jurisdiction of courts of equity in cases of this kind.
7 Hill, 259.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has decided that an
injunction cannot be granted to restrain a municipal officer
from exercising an office which he has vacated by accepting
another office, or from entering upon an office under an
appointment by a town council, alleged to be illegal; but that
the only remedy in either case i§ at law by quo warranto.
Hagner v. Heyberger, 7 Watts & Serg. 104; Updegraff v.
Crans, 47 Penn. St. 103.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, in a careful opinion delivered
by Judge Dillon, has adjudged that the right to a municipal
office cannot be determined in equity upon an original bill for
an injunction. Cochranev. c Cleary, 22 Iowa, 75.
In Delehanty v.-Jarner, 75 Illinois, 185, it Was decided that
a court of chancery had no jurisdiction to entertain a bill for
an injunction to restrain the mayor and aldermen of a city
from unlawfully removing the plaintiff from the office of
superintendent of streets, and appointing a successor; but that
the remedy was at law by quo warranto or mandamus.
In Sheridan v. Cotvin, 78 Illihois, 237, it was held that a
court of chandery had no jurisdiction to restrain by injunction
a city.council from passing an ordinance unlawfully abolishing
the office of commissioner of police; and the court, repeating
in great part the opening propositions of Kerr on Injunctions,
said : "It is elementary law, that the subject matter of the jurisdiction of a court of chancery is civil property. The court is
conversant only with questions of property and the maintenance of civil rights. Injury to property, whether actual or
prospective, is the foundation on which the jurisdiction rests.
The court has no jurisdiction in matters merely criminal or
merely immoral, which do not affect any right to property.
Nor do matters of a political nature come within the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery. Nor has the Court of Chan-

OCTOBER TERNI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

cery jurisdiction to interfere with the duties of any department of government, except under special circumstances, and
when necessary for the protection of rights of property." '78
Illinois, 24r.
Upon like grounds, it was adjudged in Dickey v. &ed, 78
Illinois, 261, that a court of chancery had no power to restrain
by injunction a board of commissioners from canvassing the
results of an election; and that orders granting such an
injunction, and adjudging the commissioners guilty of contempt for disregarding it, were wholly void. And in Haris
v. Sectlyock, 82 Illinois, 119, the court, in accordance with its
previous decisions, held that the power to hold an election was
political and not judicial, and therefore a court'of equity had
no authority to restrain officers from exercising that power.
Similar decisions have been made, upon full consideration,
by the Supreme Court of Alabama, overruling its own prior
decisions to the contrary. Beebe v. Robinson, 52 Alabama,
66 ; _oulton v. Reid, 54 Alabama, 320.
The statutes of Nebraska contain special provigions as to
the removal of officers of a county or of a city.
"_All county officers, including justices of the peace, may
be charged, tried and removed from office for official misdemeanors" of certain kinds, by the board of county commissioners, upon the charge of any person. "The proceeding shall
be as nearly like those in other actions as the nature of the
case admits, excepting where otherwise provided in this chapter." "The complaint shall be by an accuser against the
accused, and shall contain the charges with the necessary
specifications under them, and be verified by the affidavit of
any elector of the State that he believes the charges to be
true." No formal answer or replication is required ; "but if
there be an answer and reply, the provisions of this [the?]
statute relating to pleadings in actions shall apply." "The
questions of fact shall be tried as in other actions, and if the
accused is found guilty, judgment shall be entered, removing
the officer from his office, and declaring the latter vacant, and
the clerk shall enter a copy of the judgment in the election
book." Nebraska Comp. Stat. c. 18, art. 2.

IN

RE SAWYER.

Opinion of the Court,.

The nature of this proceeding before county commissioners
has been the subject of several decisions by the Supreme Court
of the State.
In the earliest one, the court declared: "The proceeding is
quasi criminal in its nature, and the incumbent undoubtedly
may be required to appear without delay and show cause why
he should not be removed. But questions of fact must be
tried as in other actions, and are subject to review on error.
The right to a trial upon distinct and specific charges is
secured to every one thus charged with an offerice for which
he is liable to be removed from office." ",Neither is it
sufficient for the board to declare and -resolve that the office
is vacant. There must be a judgment of ouster against the
incumbent." State v. Sheldon, 10 Nebraska, 452, 456.
The authority conferred -upon 'county commissioners to remove county officers has since been held not to be an exercise
of strictly judicial power, within the meanifig of that provision of the Constitution of :Nebraska,wbichi, requires that "the
judicial power of this state shall be- *ested in a supreme
court, district courts," and other courts and magistrates
therein enumerated. Constitution of Nebraska, art. 6, § 1;
State v. Olegon, 15 Nebraska, 247. But it has always been
considered as so far judicial in its nature, that the order of the
county commissioners may be reviewed on error in the district
court of the county, and ultimatdlv in the Supreme Court of
the State. State v. gTeldon, above cited; Xi, nkler v. State, 14
Nebraska, 181; State v. .feeker, 19 Nebraska, 444, 448. See
also Siouvx City & _Pa,:io ]i'ailroadv. lasldrgton County,

3 Nebraska, 30, 41; Nebraska Code of Civil Procedure, §§
580-584, 599 ; Criminal Code (ed. 1885), § 572.
This view does not substantialy differ from that taken in
other States, where similar orders have been reviewed by writ
of certiorari,as proceedings of an inferior -tribunal or board
of officers, not commissioned as judges, yet acting judicially,
and not according to the course of the common law. Cliar:l.s
v. 3layor &c. of Roboken, 3 Dutcher, 203; People v. Fire
Commissioners, '72 XN.Y. 445; Donahue v. County of Will,
100 Illinois, 94.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

In Nebraska, as elsewhere, the validity of the removal of a
public officer, and the title of the person removed, or of a
new appointee, to the office, may be tried by quo warranto
or mandamus. Nebraska Comp. Stat. c. 19, §§ 13, 24; c. 71 ;
Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 645, 704; Cases of Sh]eldon, Oleson, and -eeker, above cited; Tlie Queen, v. Saddlkrs' Co., 10H. L. Gas. 404; Osgood v. IXTelson, L. R. 5 El. L. 636.
The provisions of the statutes of Nebraska as to the removal
of officers of cities of the first class (of which the city of Lincoln is one) are more general, shfnply conferring upon the
mayor and council "power to pass any and all ordinances
not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the State, and
such ordinances to alter, modify, or repeal ;" and "to provide
for removing officers of the city for misconduct ;" and to fill
any vacancy, occurring in the office of police judge or other
elective office, by appointment by the mayor with the assent
of the council. Nebraska Comp. Stat. c. 13, §§ 11, 15 ; Stat.
1887, c. 11, §§ 8, 68, 114.
The original ordinance of the city council of Lincoln, made
part of the record, appears to have been framed with the
object that the rules established by statute for conducting
proceedings for the removal of county officers should be substantially followed in the removal of city officers elected by
the people.
After ordaining that whenever any such officer "shall be
guilty of any wilful misconduct or malfeasance in office, he
may be removed by a vote of two thirds of all the members.
elected to the council," it provides that no such officer shall be
removed unless "charges in writing, specifying the misconduct
or nature of the malfeasance, sigfmed by the complainant, and
giving the name of at least one witness besides the complainant,
to support such charges, shall be filed with the city clerk, president of the council, or mayor," and be read at a regular meeting of the council, and a certified copy thereof, with a notice
to show cause against the removal, bo served upon the officer
five days before the next meeting; that if he does not then
appear, and file a denial in writing, "the said charge and
specifications shall be taken as true, and the council shall

IN RE SAWYER.
Opinion of the Court.

declare the office vacant;" but if he does, the council shall
adjourn to some day for his trial, "and if upon the trial of said.
officer said council shall be satisfied that he is guilty of 'any
misconduct wilfully, or malfeasance in office, they shall cause
such finding to be entered upon their minutes, and shall declare said officevacant, and shall proceed at once to fill such
vacancy in the manner provided by statute and ordinance; ",
and that all proceedings and notices in the matter of such
charges may be served by the city marshal or by a policeman,
and the "service and return shall be in the manner provided
by law for the service of summonses in justice's dourts."
The only material change niade in that ordinance by the
ordinance of August 24 is, that the trial of the officer and the
finding of his guilt may be eithier by the whole council, or by
a-" committee of the council, to whom such charges shall have
been referred." In either case, the finding is to be entered
upon the minutes of the council, "and the council shall declare
the said office vacant and.the said officer removed therefrom,"
and certify the fact to the mayor, whereupon the vacancy
shall be filled by appointment by the mayor with the assent
of the council.
The whole object of the bill in equity filed by Parsons, the
police judge of the city of Lincoln, against the mayor and
councilmen of the city, upon which the Circuit Court of the
United States made the order, for the disregard of which they
are in custody, is to prevent his removal from the office of
police judge. No question of property is suggested in the
allegations of matters of fact in the bill, or would be involved
in any decree that the court could make thereon.
The case stated in the bill is, that chargds in writing against
Parsons for appropriating to his own use moneys of the city
were filed, as required by the original ordinance, by Sheedy
and Saunders; (Hyatt not otherwise named in those charges,
would seem to have signed them as the additional witness
required by that ordinance;) that the charges were referred
by the mayor to a committee of three members of the council;
that upon notice to the, accused, and his appearance before
that committee, he objected- that the committee had no

-21$

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

authority to try the charges, and the committee so reported
to the council; that thereupon Sheedy and Saunders procured
the passage of the amended ordinance, giving a committee,
instead of the whole council, power to try the charges and
report its finding to the council; that after the passage of
this ordinance, and against his protest, the committee resumed
the trial, and, in ordQr to favor and priotect his accusers, and
fraudulently to obtain his removal from office, made a report
to the city council, falsely stating that they reported all the
evidence, and fraudulently suppressing a book which he had
offered in evidence, and finding him guilty, and recommending that his office be declared vacant, and be filled by the
appointment of some other person; and that the mayor and
city council set the matter down for final vote.at a future day
named, and threatened and declared that they would then,
without hearing or reading the evidence taken before the
committee, declare the office vacant and appoint another person to'fill it.
The bill prays for an injunction to restrain the mayor and
councilmen of the city of Lincoln from proceeding any further with the charges against Parsons, or taking any vote on
the report of the committee, or declaring the office of police
judge vacant, or appointing any person to fill that office.
The matters of law suggested in the bill as grounds for the
intervention of the Circuit Court are, that the amended ordinance was an e~_ost facto law, and that all the proceedings
of the city council and its committee, as well as both ordinances, were illegal and void, and in conflict with and violation of those articles of the Constitution of the United States
which provide that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty
or property, without due process of law; that in all criminal
prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
public trial by an impartial jury of the State and district
where the crime shall have been committed, and to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor; and that
no State shall pass any ex post facto law; or deprive any person of life, liberty or property, without due process of law;
or deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.

-

IN RE SAWYER.
Opinion of the Court.

The Fifth and Sixth Amendlhents to the Constitution of
the United States, which provide that no person shall be
deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of
law, and secure to the accused in criminal prosecutions trial
by jury, and compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his
favor, apply to the United States only, and not to laws or
proceedings under the authority of a State. Spies v. Illinois,
123 U. S. 131. And that provision of the Constitution, which
prohibits any State to pass exp ost facto laws, applies only to
legislation concerning crimes. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386.
If the ordinances and proceedings of the city council are in
the nature of civil, as distinguished from criminal proceedingu, the only possible ground, therefore, for the interposition
of the courts of the United States in any form is that Parsons, if removed from the office of police judge, will be
deprived by the State of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution, or that the State has denied him the
equal protection of the laws, secured by that Amendment.
It has been contended by both parties in argument, that the
proceeding of the city council for the removal of Parsons upon
the charges filed against him is in the nature of a criminal
proceeding; and that view derives some support from the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska in State v. Sheldon, 10 Nebraska, 452, 456, before cited. But if the proceeding is of a criminal nature, it is quite clear, for the reasons and
upon the authorities set forth in the earlier part of this opifiion,
that the case stated in the bill is wholly without the jurisdiction
of any court of equity.
If those proceedings are not to be considered as criminal or
quasi criminal, yet if, by reason of their form and object, and
of the acts of the legislature and decisions of the courts of
Nebraska as to the appellate jurisdiction exercised in such
cases by the judicial power of the State, they are to be tonsidered as proceedings in a court, of the State, (of which we
express no decisive opinion,) the restraining order of the Circuit Court was void, because in direct contravention of the peremptory enactment of Congress, that the' writ of injunction

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

shall not be granted by any court of the United States to stay
proceedings in any court of a State, except when authorized by
a bankrupt act. Act of March 2, 1793, c. 22, § 5, 1 Stat. 335;
Diggs v. Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179; Peck v. Jenness, 7How.612,
625; Rev. Stat. § 720; Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 619, 719;
Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S. 254; .Dial v. ]Reynoldo, 96
U. S. 840; Sa'rgent v. Helton, 115 U. S.348.
But if those proceedings are to be considered as neither
criminal nor judicial, but rather in the nature of an official
inquiry by a municipal board entrusted by law with the administration and regulation of the affairs of the city, still,
their only object being the removal of a public officer from
his office, they are equally beyond the jurisdiction and control
of a court of equity.
The reasons which preclude a court of equity from interfering with the appointment or removal of public officers of the
government from which the court derives its authority apply
with increased force when the court is a court of the United
States and the officers in question are officers of a State. If a
person claiming to be such an officer is, by the judgment of a
court of the State, either in appellate proceedings or upon a
mandamus or quo wcrranto, denied any right secured to him
by the Constitution of the United States, he can obtain relief
by a writ of error from this court.
In any aspect of the case, therefore, the Circuit Court of
the United. States was without jurisdiction or authority to
entertain the bill in equity for an injunction.
As this court has often said: "Where a court has jurisdiction, it has a right to decide every question which occurs in
the cause; and whether its decision be correct or otherwise,
its judgment, until reversed, is regarded as binding in every
other court. But if it act without authority, its judgments and
orders are regarded as nullities. They are not voidable, but
simply void." Elliott v. Peir.sol, 1 Pet. 328, 340; Wilcox v.
Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 511; IHickey v. Stewart, 3 Ilow. 750,
762; F7w
honpson v. Wfltman, 18 Wall. 457, 467.
We do not rest our conclusion in this case, in any degree,
upon the ground, suggested in argument, that the bill does

IN RE SAWYER.
Opinion of the Court.

not show a matter in controversy of sufficient pecuniary value
to support the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court; because an
apparent defect of its jurisdiction in this respect, as in that of
citizenship of parties, depending upon an inquiry into facts
which might or might not support the jurisdiction, can be
availed of only by appeal or writ of error, and does not render
its judgment or decree a nullity. Prigg v. Adams, 2 Salk.
674; S. C. Carthew, 274; -Fisherv. Bassett, 9 Leigh, 119,
131-133; Des .foines .Yavigationz Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co.,
123 U. S. 552.
Neither do we say that, in a case belonging to a class or
subject which is within the jurisdiction both of courts of equity
and of courts of law, a mistake of a court of equity, in deciding
that in the particular matter before it there could be no full,
adequate and complete remedy at law, will render its decree
absolutely void.
But the ground of our conclusion is, that, whether the proceedings of the city council of Lincoln for the removal of
the police judge, upon charges of misappropriating moneys
belonging to the city, are to be regarded as in their nature
criminal or civil, judicial or merely administrative, they relate
to a subject which the Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting in equity, has no jurisdiction or power over, and can
neither try and determine for itself, nor restrain by injunction
the tribunals and officers of the State and city from trying
and determining.
The case cannot be distinguished in principle from that of a
judgment of the Common Bench in England in a criminal
prosecution, which was coram,non judice; or the case of a sentence passed by the Circuit Court of the United States upon a
charge of an infamous crime, without a presentment or indictment by a grand jury. Case of the Marshalsea, 10 Rep. 68,
76 ; Exparte lVilson, 114 U. S. 417; .2'xparte Bain, 121 U. S. 1.
The Circuit Court being without jurisdiction to entertain the
bill in equity -for an injunction, all its proceedings in the exercise of the jurisdiction which it assumed are null and void.
The restraining order, in the nature of an injunction, it had no
power to make. The adjudication that the defendants were

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

guilty of a contempt in disregarding that order is equally
void, their detention by the marshal under that adjudication is
without authority of law, and they are entitled to be discharged. Bx parte RZowland, 104: U. S. 604; Ex arte Fisk,
113 U. S. 713; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 507.
Writ of habeas capus to issue.
MIa.

JUSTICE FIELD,

concurring.

I concur in the judgment of this court, that the Circuit
Court of the United States had no jurisdiction to interfere with
the proceedings of the mayor and common council of Lincoln
for the removal of the police judge of that city. The appointment and removal of officers of a municipality of a State are
not subjects within the cognizance of the courts of the United
States. The proceedings detailed in the record in the present
case were of such an irregular and unseemly character, and so
well calculated- to deprive the officer named- of a fair. hearing,
as to pause strong comment. But, however irregular and violent, the remedy could only be found under the laws of the
State and in her tribunals. The police judge did not hold his
office under the United States, and in his removal the common
council of Lincoln violated no law of the United States. On
no subject is the independence of the authorities of the State,
and of her municipal bodies, from federal interference in any
form, more complete than in the appointment and removal of
their officers.
I concur also in what is said in the opinion of the court as
to the want of jurisdiction of a court of equity over criminal
proceedings, but do not perceive its applicatiou to the present
case. The proceedings before the common council were not
criminal in the sense to which 'the principle applies. That
body was not a court of justice, administering criminal law,
and it is only to criminal proceedings in such a tribunal that
the authorities cited have reference. In many cases proceedings, criminal in their character, taken by individuals or organized bodies of men,, tending, if carried out, to despoil one
of his property or other rights, may be enjoined by a court of
equity.

IN RE SAWYER.
Dissenting Opinions: Waite, C. J., Harlan, J.

MR.

CHIEF JusTicE WTArE,

dissenting.

I am not prepared to decide that an officer of a municipal
government cannot, under any circumstances, apply to a court
of chancery to restrain the municipal authorities from proceeding to remove him from his office without the authority of
law. There may be cases, in my opinion, when the tardy
remedies of quo warranto, certiorari,and other like writs will

be entirely inadequate. I can easily conceive of circumstances
under which a removal, even for a short period, would be
productive of irremediable mischief. Such cases may rarely
occur, and the propriety of such an application may not often
be seen; but if one can arise, and if the exercise of the jurisdiction can ever be proper, the proceedings of the court in due
course upon a bill fied for such relief will not be void, even
though the grounds on which it is asked may be insufficient.
If the court can take jurisdiction of such a case under any
circumstances, it certainly must be permitted to inquire, when
a bill of that character is filed, whether the case is one that
entitles the party to the relief he asks, and, if necessary to
prevent wrong in the mean time, to issue in its discretion a
temporary restraining order for that purpose. Such an order
will not be void, even though it may be found on examination
to have been improvidently issued. While in force i~t must be
obeyed, and the court will not be without jurisdiction to
punish for its contempt. Such, in my opinion, was this case,
and I, therefore, dissent from the judgment which has been
ordered.
YR. JuSTcE ItARLAN, dissenting.

I concur in the views expressed by the Chief Justice, and
unite with him in dissenting from the opinion and judgment
of the court.
The proceedings fnaugurated by the defendants against
Parsons are certainly not of a criminal nature; nor are they
embraced by the provision of the statute which declares that
"the writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a
State, except in cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to procecdings in bankruptcy." iRev.

Stat. § .720.
The act of March 3, 1887, declares that the Circuit Courts
of the United States shall have, original cognizance, concurrent
with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil
nature, at common law or in equity, arising under the Constitution of the United States.
Parsons' suit is, confessedly, of a civil nature;, and it proceeds upon the ground that what the defendants propose to
do will violate rights secured to him by the Constitution of
the United States. It is, therefore, a suit arising under the
Constitution of the United States. Whether the Circuit Court,
sitting in equity, could properly grant to the plaintiff the relief
asked is not a question of jurisdiction within the rule that
orders, judgments, or decrees are void, where the court, which
passed them, was without jurisdiction. It is rather a question
as to the exercise of jurisdiction. As this suit is one arising
under the Constitution of the United States, and is of a civil
nature, the inquiry in the mind of the Circuit Judge, when he
read the bill, was whether, according to the principles of equity,
a decree could be properly rendered against the defendants?
Osborn v. Bank7 of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 858.
The statute provides that "suits in"equity shall not be sustained in either of the courts of the United States in any case
where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had at
law." But if one of those courts should render a final decree,
in behalf of the plaintiff, notwithstanding he had a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy at law, would the decree be a
nullity? Could it be assailed, collaterally, as void, upon the
ground that no case was made justifying relief in equity?
When a party has disregarded a preliminary injunction issued
by a Circuit Court of the United States, has been fined for
contempt, and is in custody for failing to pay the fine, must
he be discharged upon kabeas corpus in every case where it
aligpears, upon the face of the bill, that the plaintiff has a plain,
adequate, and, complete remedy at law? Those questions, it

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Statement of the Case.

seems to me, should receive a negative answer. I do not
understand the court to decide that the Circuit Court could
not, under any circumstances, or by any mode of proceeding,
enforce the rights which the plaintiffs contend are about to be
violated by the defendants; but only, that the court below,
sitting in equity, had no authority to interfere with the proposed action of the defendants. It seems to me that this
question would properly arise upon appeal from any final
decree rendered in the cause, and is not determinable upon
writ of Aabeas corpu.
Upon the delivery of the opinions in this case, Mr&. Attorney
General stated to the court, in open court, that he would take notice
of the order awarding the writ, and that he would order the discharge of the prisoners, without requiring the issue of the writ.

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted December 6, 1887.-Decided January 9, 1888.

The entry of final judgment on demurrer concludes the parties to it, by way
of estoppel, in a subsequent action between the same parties on a different claim, so far as the new controversy relates to the. matters litigated
and determined in the prior action.
A final judgment for defendant in an action against a municipal corporation
to recover on coupons attached to bonds purporting to have been issued
by the corporation, entered on demurrer to an answer setting up facts
shoving that the bonds were never executed by the municipality, concludes the plaintiff in a subsequent action against the municipality to
recover on other coupons cut from the same bonds.
Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, distinguished.

THE following was the case, as stated by the court.
In October, 1880, the plaintiff below, who is also plaintiff in
error here, commenced an action in the Circuit Court of the
VOL. CXXIV-15

