OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

-M. 3fartin F.

aorrs, opposing.

MR. CnIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion is denied. While the stipulation binds the parties to submit the cause without oral argument, there is nothing which requires this to be done at any particular time. Its
terms will be fulfilled if the submission is made when the case
is reached in its order. As no reference is made to Rule 20,
we cannot apply that rule to the case on the suggestion of one

of the parties against the protest of the other.

Denied.

?

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY

.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 6, 1888. -Decided January 16, 1888.

Under the provision of the act of July 31, 1876, c. 246, 19 Stat. 121, " that
before any land granted to any railroad company by the United States
shall be conveyed to such company, or any person entitled thereto under
any of the acts incorporating or relating to such company, unless such
company is exempted by law from the payment of such cost, there shall
first be paid into the Treasury of the United States, the cost of surveying.
selecting and conveying the same by the said company or persons in
interest," the New Orleans Pacific Railway Company, as the owner, by
conveyance from the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad
Company, of its interest in the land grant made to the latter company by
§ 22 of the act of 'March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 579, was bound to pay
the cost of surveying the land, before receiving a patent for it, although
such cost had been incurred and expended by the United States before
March 3, 1871, the construction of no part of the road having been commenced before the expiration of the five years limited for the completion
of the whole of it.

APPEAL from a judgment against the petitioner in the Court
of Olaims. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. John . Blair, .11'. ,John F
SSzayne, for appellalt.

Dillon and Afl'. 11ra/er

PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.

125

Opinion of the Court.

.lr. .Attorney General and .Mr.Assitan&Attorney General
Howard, for. appellee.
MR- Jusmi; BLAToHFOrD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal by the New Orleans Pacific Railway
Company from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing
its petition, on a demurrer thereto, after it had failed to amend
the petition in accordance with leave granted to it by the
court.
The substantial allegations of the petition are these: The
petitioner is a corporation of Louisiana. The New Orleans,
Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad Compary" was incorpoiated by Louisiana in 1869. By § 22 of an act of Congress
passed March 3, 1S71, c. 122, 16 Stat. 579, there were granted
to the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad
company, its successors and assigiis, in aid of the construction
of its railroad from New Orleans to Baton Rouge, thence by
the way of Alexandria, in the State of Louisiana, to connect
with the Texas Pacific Railroad Company at its eastern terminus, the same number of alternate sections of public lands
per mile, in the State of Louisiana, as were, by the same act,
granted in the State of California to the Texas Pacific Railroad Company; and it was provided that said lands should be
withdrawn from market, selected, and patents issued therefor,
and opened for settlement and preemption, upon the same
terms and in the same manner and time as was provided for
and required from the Texas Pacific Railroad Company within
the State of California: "Provided, That said company shall
complete the whole of said road within five years from the
passage of this act."
By § 9 of the same act, there was granted to the Texas
Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and assigns, every
alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated by odd
numbers, to the amount of ten alternate sections of land per
mile on each side of said railroad in California.
Section 12 of the same act provided as follows: "That
whenever the said company" (the Texas Pacific Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Company) "shall complete the first and each succeeding section of twenty consecutive miles of said railroad and put it in
running order as a first-class road in all its appointments, it
shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to cause
patents to be issued conveying to said company the number of
sections of land opposite to and coterminous with said completed road to which it shall be entitled for each section so
completed. Said company, within two years after the passage
.of this act, shall designate the general route of its said road,
as near as in v be, and shall file a map of the same in the
Department of the Interior; and, when the map is so filed,
the Secretary of the Interior, immediately thereafter, shall
cause the lands within forty miles on each side of said designated route within the Territories, and twenty miles within
the State of California, to be withdrawn from preemption,
private entry, and sale."
On the 11th of November, 1871, the iNew Orleans, Baton
Rouge and Vicksburg Company filed in the Department of
the Interior a map of the general route of its road from Baton
Rouge to Shreveport, and, on the 13th of February, 1873, a
like map showing the general route of its road from New
Orleans to Baton Rouge. In 1871 and 1873, the lands along
said general route, within the grant of the act of March 3,
1871, were withdrawn from entry and sale by order of said
Department. On the 5th of January, 1881, the petitioner
became the owner, by conveyance from the Neew Orleans.
Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Company, of all its interest in
such grant of public lands; and the conveyance and its accepiance by the petitioner were duly recognized by the Department of the Interior. After January 5, 18S1, the petitioner
constructed two hundred and sixty miles of the railroad from
Shreveport, by way of Alexandria and West Baton Rouge, io
White Castle, in Louisiana,' within the limits of the lands withdrawn for its grantor, and substantially upon the course, direction, and general route of the road filed by such grantor.
On the 13th of March, 1883, the Secretary of the Interior
transmitted to the President of the United' States a report in
writing of the commissioner appointed by the President to ex-

PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.

127

Opinion of the Court.

-

amine said two hundred and sixty miles, and recommended that
they be accepted, and that patents for such lands as might have
been earned by their construction be issued to the petitioner.
This recommendation was approved in writing by the President, and on the 3d of March, 1885, patents were issued to
the petitioner for 679,284.64 acres of lands in Louisiana, as
earned by the petitioner. Before issuing the patents, tho
$14,713.63, alleging
Secretary of theInterior exacted from it;
the same to be due for the cost of surveying the lands, although
such cost had been incurred and expended by the United States
prior to March 3, 1,871. The petitioner denied the right of
the United States to that sum, and paid it under protest.
The.petitioner prayed judgment for that sum.
The question in the case is as to the effect of a statutory
provision enacted July 31, 1876, c. 246, 19 Stat. 121, in "An
act making appropruitions for sundry civil expenses of the
Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and for other purposes," in
these words: "And }xrovided further, That before any land
granted to any railroad company by the United States shall
be conveyed to such company, or any person entitled thereto
under any of the acts incorporating or relating to said company, unless such company is exempted by law from the payment of such cost, there shall first be paid into the Treasury
of the United States the cost of surveying, selecting, and, conveying the same by the said company or persons in interest."
We are of opinion that this provision of the act of 1876
controls the present case, and is conclusive against the right
of the petitioner to recover the money in question. At the
time this act was passed, neither the petitioner nor its grantor
had acquired any right to claim the lands granted. The five
years from March 3, 1871, within which, as a condition, the
whole of the road was to be completed, had elapsed. without
the commencement of any part, of the work of construction.
That was not begun until nearly ten years after the act of
March 3, 1871, was passed. The petitioner accepted the conveyance from its grantor with full knowledge of the provision
of the act of 1876. Congress had a right at that time to im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

pose upon the grant the new condition, the company having
failed to complete the whole of the road by March 3, 1876.
The restriction in the act of 1876, that the'provision for the
payment of the cost of surveying the land shall not apply to a
company which is "exempted by law from the payment of
such cost," does not apply to the case of the petitioner. There
is no express statutory provision exempting the grantor to the
petitioner from the payment of the cost of surveying the land.
All that can be said is, that the act of March "3, 1871, was
silent on the subject. It neither exempted the beneficiary
from paying the cost of surveying, nor did it expressly require
it to pay such cost. It and its grantee, therefore, fall within
the provision of the act of 1876, because not within the exception contained in that provision.
It is urged for the appellant, that, in the present case, the
surveys had been made and paid for by the United States
prior to the passage of the act of March 3, 1871, and that, as
12 of that act provided for the issuing of patents without
requiring the payment of the cost of surveying, the company
was therefore "exempted by law from the payment of such
cost," within the meaning of the provision of the act of
1876; and it is suggested, that no statute in respect to the
granting of public lands to either a State or a railroad company, passed prior to 1876, contained a provision expressly
exempting the grantee from the payment of the cost of surveying. It is further urged, that the terms of the provision
of the act of 1876 are not intended t6 apply to then existing
grants, but only to future grants and to the cost of surveys to
be made thereafter.
But we are of ipinion that the provision is a general one,
and that, although it is enacted in connection with an appropriation of money for the survey of public lands and of private land claims, and follows a requirement that no patent
shdll issue for a private land claim until the cost of survey and
platting shall have been paid into the Treasury by the party
in interest, yet it is not controlled by those circumstances. It
is manifestly general legislation, applying, as to the past, to all
land theretofore "granted to any railroad company by the

PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.

129

Opinion of the Court.

United States," and to the cost of siirveying such land, whether
that cost had been previously incurred or expended, or was to
be incurred or expended in the future. The exception created,
that the provision is not to apply to a company exempted by
law from the payment of the cost, is general in its language.
If such a company is to be found, the exception applies to it;
if it is not to be found, the provision applies ,to it.
It is urged for the appellant, that, inasmuch as § 17 of
the act of M\farch 3, 1871, provided, in regard to the Texas
Pacific Railroad Company, that, upon the- failure to complete
its road within the time- limited by that act, Congress might
adopt such measures as it might deem necessary and proper to
secure the speedy completion of the road, and, inasmuch as
that act contained no reservation. of a power to add to, alter,
amend, or repeal its provisions, Congress was restricted, on a
failure of the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Company to complete the whole of its road within five years from
the passage of the act, to the adoption of measures for the
securing of a speedy completion of the road, and that the imposition upon the company of the cost of surveying the land
was not such a measure.
But we are of opinion, that while, on the failure of the company to complete its road within the time limited, Congress
might adopt measures to secure its speedy completion, no
limitation was imposed on the right and power of Congress,
the company having failed even to commence the construction
of any part of its road witlin the time limited, to virtually
renew the grant and extend the time within which the land
might be earned, .with the imposition of a new condition, that,
before any patent. should be issued, the cost of surveying the
land patented should first be paid into the treasury.
In the case of Farnsworthv. Xinnesota & Pacifro Railroad
Co., 92 U. S.49, it was held by this court, that, where a grant
of land and connected franchises is made to a corporation, for
the construction of a railroad, by a statute.which provides for
their forfeiture upon failure to perform the work within the
prescribed time, the forfeiture may be declared by legislative
act, without judicial proceedings to ascertain and determine
VoL.

XXIV-t)

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the failure of the grantee; and that any public assertion by
legislative act of the ownership of the State after the. default
of the grantee is equally effective and operative. See, also,
Xfcieken v. United States, 97 U. S. 204, 217, 218.
In the present case, it is, true that the statute did not provide
for the forfeiture of the grant on failure to complete the whole
of the road within the five years; but, within the principle of
the case referred to, Congress was left free, on a failure of the
grantee to do any of the work within the five years, to impose
the condition it did upon the grant of the lands. As was said
in I2arnswortk v. _Minnesotat & Pacifie Railroad Co., the act
having made the construction of the whole of the road within
five- years a condition precedent to a patent for any of the
land granted, no conveyance in disregard of that condition
could pass any title to the company, as was held in Sckulenberg
v. Hfarriman, 21 Wall 44. It follows that Congress had the
power, after the lapse of, the time during which the right to
any conveyance could have been earned, to impose a condition
upon which such right could be earned in the future. The.
application by the petitioner for a conveyance or patent must
be taken as an assent by it to the condition imposed by the
act of 1876.
The same principle was applied in United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wall. 211. In Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603,
it was held by this court, that the 21st section of the act of
July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, amendatory of the act of July 1,
1862, 12 Stat. 489, to aid the Kansas Pacific Railway in the
construction of its road by the grant of lands, which amendatory section required the prepayment of, the cost of surveying,
selecting, and conyeying the, lands, required the prepayment
as to lands granted by the original act, as well as to those
granted by the amendatory act. It was contended by counsel
in that case, that, as the original act required no such prepayment, the United States could not, in disregard of the statute
which made the grant, annex new conditions to it by a subsequent enactment. But this court said (p. 608): "We are of
opinion that no patent could rightfully issue in any case until
the cost of survey had been paid. None of the road had been

GUMBEL v. rITKIN.
Syllabus.

built when the amendatory act was passed. No right had
vested in any tracts of land, and the power, as well as intent,
of Congress to require such payment cannot be contested."
The same statutory provisions were under consideration in
Railway Co. v. McSh7ane, 22 Wall. 444. In that' case, in
reference to the provision of § 21 of the act of 1864:, this
court said (p. 462): "That the payment of these costs of surveying the land is a condition precedent to the right to receive
the title from the Government, can admit of no doubt. Until
this is done, the equitable title of the company is incomplete.
There remains a payment to be made to perfect it. There is
something to be done, without which the company is hot
entitled to a.patent."

This view was affirmed in respect to like statutory provisions
concerning the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, in the
case of )Yorthern Pacit Railroad Co. v. Traill County, 115
U. S. 600, where, by an act passed in.
1870, Congress had provided that before any land granted to the company by the
United States should -be conveyed there should first be paid
into the Treasury of the United States the cost of surveying,
selecting, and conveying the same.
.These views seem to us to be decisive in the present case,
and,
The judgment of the Court of Claims is fJfrnmwd.

GULBEL v. PITK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued Deceraber 20, 1887.-Decided January 9,1888.

A court of the United States, sitting as a court of law, has an equitable
power over its own process to prevent abuse, opifression, and injustice;
which power may be invoked by a stranger to the litigation as incident
to the jurisdiction already vested, and without regard to his own citizenship.

