OCTOBER- TERMi; 1887.
Syllabus.

expenses.

The railroad was-all the time, before and after *the

suit, a, "going concern," "andcits receipts and disbursements

the subjects of current income aicount. Applying the disbursements as- they were made .from the income to. the payment of the older liabilities for the expenses, as is the rule in
ordinary running accountsi -i As: clear that, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, the mQney on hand was earned penaing
the suit.
Under these circiimstances,' as there are no current expense
creditors'claiming the fund, we are satisfied that the money is
to be treated as income covered by the mortgages, and should
be paid to the trustees to be held as part of that security.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
1?eversed, and tIe cause r'emanded witl istructions to enter
a decree in accordancewit&this pipnion.

HOBOKEN v. PENNSYLVANIA
PANY.

RAILROAD

COM-

SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SCIIMIDT.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. HAMBURG-AAMERICAN
COMPANTY.

STEAM PACKET

SAME v. NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT GOURT OF THE UNITED

STEAMSHIP
STATES

FOR THD

DISTRICT- OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued February 8, S, 1888.-Decided February 20, 1888.

The-title of tile Pennsylvania Railroad Company to its lands in controversy,
derived by grant from the Hoooken Land and Improvement Company,.
was conflaip d and enlargecl'by the ac.t of the legislature of XNew Jersev
of Marc f1,1869, "t enable the United Companies to improve lands

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Syllabus.
under water at Kill Yon Kull and other places," and the title of the other
defendants to their lands in controversy, also derived by grant from said
Hoboken Company, was enlarged and confirmed by grants from the State,
under the riparian act of the legislature of the same 31st March; and
thus all these titles are materially distinguished from the title of tile
Hoboken Land and Improvement Company, (derived only through ยง 4 of
its charter,) which was the subject of the decision of the highest court
of the State of New Jersey in Hobokeen Land and Improvement Go. v.
Hoboken, 7 Vroom, (36 N. J. Law,) 540.
The act of the legislature of New Jersey of March 31; 1869, "to enable the
United Companies to improve lands under water at Kill von Kull and
other places" embraced but one object, and sufficiently indicated that
object in its title, viz. : that it was intended to apply to the lands of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company in controversy in these actions; and
thus it complied with the requirements of the constitution of New Jersey
respecting titles to statutes.
By the laws of New Jersey lands below high-water mark on navigable
waters are the absolute property of the State, subject only to the power
conferred upon Congress to regulate foreign commerce and commerce
among the States, and they may be granted by the State, either to
the riparian proprietor, or to a stranger, as the State sees fit.
The grant by the State of New Jersey to the United Companies by the act
of Marc. 31, 1869, under which the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
claims, and the grants under the general riparian act of the same date
under which the other defenfants claim, were intended to secure, and do
secure, to the respective grantees the whole beneficial interest in their
respective properties, for their exclusive use for the purposes expressed
in the grants.
An estoppel cannot apply in this case to the State or to its successor in title.
Any easement, which the public may have in New Jersey to pass over lands
redeemed by filling in below high-water mark in order to'reach navigable
waters, is subordinate to the right of the State to grant the lands discharged of the supposed easement.
A riparian proprietor in New Jersey has no power to create an easement for
the public over lands below high-water mark, as against the State and
those claiming under it; and if he attempts to do it, and then conveys to
another person all his right to reclaim the land under water fronting his
property, his grantee may acquire from the State the title to such land,
discharged of the supposed easement.
The title of a grantee under the riparian acts of New Jersey differs in every
respect from that of a riparian owner to the alluvial accretions made by
the changes in a shifting stream which constitutes the boundary of his
possessions.
The defendants in error hold the exclusive possession of the premises in
controversy against the adverse claim of the plaintiff to any easement by
virtue of the original dedication of the streets to high-water mark on the
Loss map.
VOL. cxx rv-42

OCTOBER TERX, .1887.
Statement of the Case.

Tim following is .the case as stated by the court:
These are six actions of ejectment brought by the Mayor
and Common Council of the City of Hoboken originally in the
Supreme Court of New Jersey, and removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States for that district by the several defendans, on the ground of citizenship or alienage. In that
court they were tried as one case, the intervention of a jury
having been duly waived in writingby the parties. Judgment
was rendered in them severally for the defendants, to reverse
which these writs of error have been sued out.
The general nature of the controversy is accurately stated
by Judge Nixon, who tried the causes, in his opinion, as follows, 16 Fed. Rep. 816:
"The claim of the plaintiff is for an easeitint, and is based
upon the dedication of certain streets, in the year 1804, by
Col. John Stevens, who was then the owner of between 500
and 600 acres of land on the western shore of the Hudson
River, where the city of Hoboken now stands, ind who made.
'a plan of-the new city of Hoboken, "n the county of Bergen,'
'and caused the same to be fied in the clerk's office ..of said
county in the month of April, i805. This plan,-on the map
known as the Loss map, exhibits a number of streets running
north and south, and a still larger number running east and
west, all of the latter, except one, apparently terminating on
the river front at their eastern end, and one of the former having a like terminus on the south. Since that date,,and by legislative authority, the river bed below the ancient high-water
mark has been filled in for a long distance to the east and
south of the land included in,the Loss map, rendering the navi'
gable water inaccessible from the streets as therein laid out and
dedicated. This controversy has reference to extending one
of these streets, not named on the map, but now called River
Street, to the south, and :fIur others, to it, Newark Street,.
designated on the map th6 Philadelphia post road, and First,
Second and Third sfreets, to the east, until they respectivelyreach the navigable water of the river. The city claims the
right.of extension by virtue and force of the Stevens dedica-

HtOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD GO.
Statement of the Case.

tion. The defendants resist it, asserting that the title of CoL
Stevens was limited to high-water mark of th8 river in 1801;
that the soil below the high-water mark, as it then- existed,
belonged to the State of New Jersey, which not'-only has
never acquiesced in any easement over the land, but by various enactments has conferred upon the defendants or their
grantors an absolute title inconsistent with any right of w1'
in the public over the same."
The facts in all the cases are embraced in a series of findings
by the court constituting a single statement, as follows:
"(1) That the tract of land on which the city of HBoboken.
has been mainly built was fornierly the property of Col. John
Stevens, and contained 6riginally five hundred and sixty-four
acres.
"(2) That i-i the year 1804 Col. Stevens, then being the
owner of'saial tract, caused to be made 'a plan of the new city
of Hoboken\ in the county of Bergen,' known as Loss's map,
which was filed in-the clerk's office of the county of Berg~n,
in April, 1805.
"(3) That the public streets laid out on said map running
east and west extended eastw~rdly to the high-water mark of
Hudson River as it then existed.
"(4) That the only slreet thereon running north and'south
which concerns ,the present controversy is now called River
Street, and its southerly terminus on the map was at the highwater mark of *saidriver.
"(5) That subsequent to the filing of said map Col. Stevens
conveyed several lots or parcels of the land shown thereon to
different persons, and describing the lots so conveyed by reference to the map and the streets delineated thereon, -and that
other owners deriving title from or under him have since conveyed lots within said plan, describing the same by reference.
to the map and streets.
cc(6) That at the time of the filing of said map in the
clerk's office the title to all the land fionting the said Stevens
property and lying between high and low water mark of the
west bank of the Hudson River was in the State of New
Jersey.

-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"(7) That 'The Hoboken Land and Improvement Company' was incorporated by the legislature of said State by an
act entitled 'An act to incorporate the Hoboken Land and
Improvement Company,' approved February 21, 1838; that by
ยง 1 of the act they were authorized to hold real estate, but the
amount held by the company should not exceed 1000 acres at
any time; that by the fourth section the company was empowered to purchase, fill up, occupy, liossess, and enjoy all land
covered with water fronting and adjoining the lands that
might be owned by them, and to construct thereon wharves,
piers, and slips, and all other structures requisite or proper for
commercial and shipping purposes, provided that it should not
be lawful for the company to fill up any such land covered.
with water, nor to construct any dock, pier, or wharf immediately in front of the lands of any other person or persons owning down to the water, without the consent of such persons
first had in writing.
"(8) That by virtue of the powers and privileges of said
act of incorporation the company purchased all the land and
real estate described in the deed of conveyance from Edwin A.
Stevens and others, bearing date May 6, 1839, and duly recorded
in the clerk's office of the county of Bergen, in Liber 13 of
Deeds, fol. 105, and in which, among other land, is included
the tract of 564 acres embraced in the Loss map, and formerly
the property of Col. Stevens.
"(9) That at the time of said transfer by Edwin A. Stevens
and others to the said Hoboken Company the land for which
these suits were brought by the city of ioboken was under
water, and since the date of said conveyance has been filled
up, occupied, and possessed by said company or their grantees,
and that all of said land under water was in front of and adjoining the real estate purchased by the company; that since
the time of said purchase the company, or their grantees, have
a-t various times reclaimed the land, from the water and have
constructed thereon wharves, harbors, piers and slits, and
other structures requisite or proper for commercial purposes,
and have been in the exclusive possession, occupancy, and
enjoyment of the same from the time of such reclamation.

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case

"(10) That the city of Hoboken was incorporated by the
legislature of the State of New Jersey, by an act approved
March 28, 1855, with the powers and privileges therein
granted, prout the same, and that the territorial limits of
the said city embraced all the lands shown on the Loss map,
and also a large tract of real estate adjoining the same on the
west, extending to the west line of the lands of the late John
G. Coster, deceased, and that previous to said incorporation its
territo y embraced (a portion of) one of the townships of the
county of Hudson.
"(11) That the city of Hoboken never by ordinance recognized River Street south of Third Street, and only recognized
its existehce as far south as Third Street by the ordinance of
January 9, 1858; that Newark, First and Second streets were
never recognized by ordinance east of Hudson Street prior to
the ordiiiance of October 5, 1875, which ordinance provided
that said streets should extend to high-water mark on the
Hudson River; and that Third Street was never recognized
east of River Street prior to the said ordinance of October
5, 1875, which ordinance also provided that the said street
should extend to high-water mark of said river.
"(12) ThAt no proceedings have been taken by the city to
condemn the lands in controversy or to take them for the
purposes of a public street, except the passage of the ordinance
of 1875 and the bringing of these actions of ejectment claiming the dedication of the lands as a public street under the
iLoss map of 1804.
"(13) That the Hoboken Land and Improvement Company,
-in consideration of $68,583.33, executed a deed to the Camden
and Amboy Railroad Company, dated December 1, 1864, conveying a tract of land at the foot or easterly end of Second
Street, within the boundaries of which are embraced the premises that the plaintiff seeks to recover in the two suits against
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, and that the Camden and
Amboy fRailroad Company and its grantees or lessees have
been in the possession of said lands since said conveyance.
"(14) That the legislature of the State of New Jersey, by
alaw approved .March 31, 1869, authorized the united railroad

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

companies of New Jersey to reclaim and erect wharves and
other improvements in front of any lands then owned by them
or held in trust for them on any tide-waters of the State, and
when so reclaimed and improved to have, hold, possess, and
enjoy the same as the owners thereof, subject only to the provisions that they should pay for such grant unto the'treasury
of the State the sum of $20,000 before the first day of July
next ensuing, and should also file in the office of the Secretary
of the State a map and description of the -lands under water
in front of the upland designated in said act; that the sum of
*$20,000 was paid by the companies within the time limited
and the map and description filed as required. Exhibit D .9.
"(15) That an act of the legislature of New Jersey, supplementary to the act to ascertain the rights-of the State and
of riparian owners in the lands lying under water, approved
April 11, 1864; was passed on the thirty-first of March, 1869;
that by a proviso to the third section of the same ' all previous
grants of lands under water or right to reclaim made directly
by legislative act or grant or license power or authority so
made or given to purchase, fill up, occupy, possess, and enjoy
lands covered with water fronting or adjoining lands owned
by the corporation, grantee, or licensee named in the legislative
act mentioned, its, his, or their representatives, grantees, or
assigns,' are excepted from the operation of said supplement;
that in the fourth section of said act the riparian commissioner's are authorized, for the consideration therein mentioned,
to execute and'deliver in the name of the State of New Jersey,
to all persons coming within the terms of said proviso, a paper
capable of being acknowledged and recorded, conveying and
confirming to them the title to all lands, whether then under
water or not, which were held by previous legislative grant or
lease, either in the hands of the grantees or lessees or by their
representatives or assigns.
"(16) That under the provisions of said act the State of
New Jersey conveyed to the Hoboken Land and Improvement
Company, by deed dated December 21, 1869, for the consideration of $35,500, so much of the land and premises purchased
of Edwin A. Stevens and others as was originally below the

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

high-water nark of the river, and all lands under water in front
of the same, and as was situate between Second and Fourth
streets, if extended, and in front of Third Street, if extended,
to the exterior bulkhead and pier lines established by the riparian commissioners, and embracing the premises clailned in the
several suits against the Hamburg-American Steam Packet
Company and the North German Lloyd Steamship Company,
and that the said company and its grantees have been in the
possession of said premises since ihe date of said conveyance.
"(17) That on the twenty-sixth of September, 1866, the
Hoboken Land and Improvement Company and Edwin A.
Stevens executed a conveyance to the New York Floating
Dry Dock Company for certain lots and tracts of land, above
and under water, in front of and to the east of First Street,
and the northerly half of Newark Street, if extended, embracing the premises claimed in the suits against Adolph E.
Schmidt and others; that the said The New York Floating
Dry Dock Company transferred the same to Frederick Kuhne,
trustee of the German Transatlantic Steam Navigation Company, by deed dated August 31, 1872, the said Kuhne, on the
same day, executing a formal declaration of trust to the said
company; that on the ninth of November, 1872, the State of
New Jersey, in consideration of $22,625, granted and conveyed to said Kuhne, trustee as aforesaid, all the right and
title of said State in and to the land and premises described in
the above recited deed from the Hoboken Land and Improvement Company to the New York Floating Dry Dock Compahy, and that the same has been in the possession of the
said respective grantees from the date of the respective
conveyances.
"(18) That on the twenty-third of April, 1872, the Hoboken
Land and Improvement Company made a conveyance to the
North German Lloyd Steamship Company of a lot of land
situate in front of and to the east of Third Street, if continued
to the Hudson River, and embracing the premises claimed in
the several suits against the North German Lloyd Steamship
Company and the Hamburg-American Packet Company, and
the premises have been in the possession of said company and1
its iessees since the date of said conveyance.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

"(19) That River Street, as shown on the Loss map, cannot
be extended to reach the navigable waters of the Hudson
River without crossing land outside of that shown on said
map and without crossing land which, prior to April 28, 1874,
belonged to the State of New Jersey, and which the said
State, by deed of that date, leased. in perpetuity to the Morris
and Essex Railroad Company. See Exhibit D 8."
Upon these facts the Circuit Court founded its conclusions
of law, as follows:
"(1) That neither Col. John Stevens, in 1804-, nor at any
time thereafter, nor his grantees of an4y portion of the land
delineated on the Loss map, had power to dedicate to the
public use as a highway any part of the land or water adjoining said lands and lying east of and below high-water mark
of the river as it then existed, and that said land under water
belonged to the State of New Jersey, and could only be
dedicated or subjected to an easement by the State and its
grantees.
"(2) That the charter granted by the State of New Jersey
*to the Hoboken Land and Improvement Company was a
contract between the State and the corporatofs; that the
fourth section expressly authorized the corporation to fill up
all lands covered with water fronting and adjoining the lands
they might acquire, and to construct thereon wharves, harbors,
piers, and slips, and all other structures requisite or proper for
commercial or shipping purposes, and that the only restriction
imposed upon the corporation by the act was that it should
not fill up or build any dock, pier, or wharf upon any land
under water 'immediately in front of the lands of any other
person or persons owning down to the water;' and that
neither the plaintiff in these suits nor th6 State of New Jersey
nor the public was 'another person owning down to the
water,' within the legal meaning and intent of said charter
or contract.
"(3) That the provisions of the charter of.incorporation of
the plaintiff, so far as they are applicable to the subject of the
pending controversy, negative the plaintiff's construction of
its powers under said charter, in that (1) it withholds from

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

the corporate authorities any right or privilege as shore or
riparian owners; (2) while it vests the council with power to
take any lands that it may judge necessary for the opening
of Third Street, it requires payment to be made to the owner
for the fair value of the lands so taken and of the improvements thereon, and the damage done to any distinct lot or
parcel or tenement by taling any part of it for such purposes;
and (3)it expressly provides that nothing contained in the
charter shall be so construed as to interfere with or impair
the vested rights and privileges of any person or corporation
whatever, except as to property taken for public use, upon
compensation as provided for iii the act.
"14) That the State of New Jersey, being the absolute
owner of the land under the water below high-water mark,.
which was the limit of the Stevens dedication of streets, had
the light to fill in and make land as far as its ownership
extended; that the soil thus acquired and redeemed from the
water was in no sense alluvion or accretion, which became the
property of the shore-owner, but remained the land of the
state or its grantees, and that no right or authority existedin the shore-owner, by dedicating the public streets to the"
limits of its ownership, to charge such newly made land with
the burden of an easement over it.
"(5) That as to the two several suits against the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, the locus in.quo is embraced within the
descriptions of the deed from the Hloboken Land and Improvement Company to the Camden and Amboy Railroad Company,
dated December 6, 1864, and also within the grant of the
State to the united railroad companies of New Jersey of the
date of March 31, 1869, wherein the said companiies were
authorized, for the consideration therein expressed and afterwards paid, ' to reclaim and erect wharves and other hiprovements in front of any lands owned by or held in trust for
them,' subject to no restriction other than the regulations as
to solid filling and pier lines before recommended by the riparian commissioners, and that the defendant, who is the lessee
of the said companies,, is entitled to hold said premises against
the claim of plaintiff, unless compensation be first made for
the taldng thereof according to law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

"(6) That as to the two several suits against Adolph E.
Schmidt and others the locus in quo,is covered by the description of the deed from the Hoboken L andand-rnprovement
Company to the New York Floating Dry' DDk , Cbompaiy,'
dated August 31, 1872, and also within the grant from the
State by its commissioners, under the provisions of the fourth
section of the supplement to the act entitled ' An act to ascertain the rights of the State and of the riparian owners,' etc.,
to Frederick Kuhne, trustee, etc., under whom the defendants
hold by mesne conveyance, and that they are entitled to retain
the possession and ownership of said premises against the
plaintiff until the same is condemned and payment therefor
made accordihg to law.
"(7) That, as to the several suits against the HamburgAmerican Steam Packet Company and the North German
Lloyd Steamship Company, the locus in quo is within the grant
from the State of New Jersey to the Hoboken Land and Improvement Company of the date of December 21, 1869, and
also of the deed of conveyance. from the Hoboken Land and
Improvement Company to.the North German Lloyd Steamship Company, dated April 93, 1872, and that the said defendants are entitled to hold the said premises clear and discharged
of any right or claim therein or thereto by said plaintiff.
"(8) That none of the land and premises claimed by the
plaintiff in either of the said several suits are subject to an
easement in consequence of the dedication of public streets
made by Col. John Stevens in the Loss map. of 1804.
"(9) That the several defendants Au the several suits should
be adjudged not guilty."
i1Lr. James F. -l-finturn for plaintiff in Vrror.
-Mr. James B. Tredenburgh for the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, defendant in error.
_Mr>. Barker Gumummere for the Pennsylvania Railrogd Com,)any, defendant in error.
Leopo4 Gold.Xr.. Zeon A bbett for Adolph 'E.
"Schmidt,
schmidt, The Hamburg-American Steam Packet Company

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD

CO:

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and The North German Lloyd Steamship Company, defendants in error.
2.Ab. J D. Bedle for the Pennsylvania Railroad Company,
defendant in error.
.31r.JTomas ff. 31oCarterfor plaintiff in error.
I. In determining the questions of title to land and the construction of the statutes of the State of New Jersey, the court
can only inquire what is the law of New Jersey in regard to
the questions involved; and, so far as this court can find that
law settled, it is bound to adopt it for the purposes of this case.
Rev. Stat. 2d ed., p. 1311, ยง 721; and authorities collected in
margin, particularly: lTFebster v. Cooper, 14 How. 488, 504;
Suydam v. Williamson, 24 'How. 427; Ch/icago v. Robbins, 2
Black, 418, 428; Orvis v. Powell, 98 U. S. 176; Barney v.
XYeokuk, 94 U. S. 324.
II. A case between the plaintiff in these suits and The
Hoboken Land and Improvement Company, the grantor of all
the defendants, has been determined in the highest court of
the State of New Jersey, which settles and determines many
-of the questions necessary to be decided in these cases. This
is the case of -Mayor &o. of .Hoboken v. Hobokn Land and
Imfrovement Company, ' Vroom, (36 N. J. Law,) 540. It was
an action brought by the city to recover the filled-in portion
of the street delineated on the Loss map as Fourth Streetthat is, the portion between the water line as shown on the
Loss map and the new water line made by filling in opposite
the end of the street. The claim of the city to recover in that
action is in all respects identical with its claims in the present
suits. The following propositions were established by that
case.
1. That the plaintiff may maintain these actions of ejectment for lands dedicated to public use as a street.
2. That no acceptance of i dedicated street, or actual user,
is necessary to deprive the dedicating owner of his powei of
retraction, or to subject the dedicated land to the public use
when it shall be required for such purpose.

OCTOBER TERI,

1887.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

3. That the streets delineated on the Loss map as extending
to the Hudson River will be continued to the new water front
made by the filling in by the Hloboken Land and Improvement
Company, under its charter.
4. That an ordinance of the city adopting part of tbe street
is no abandonment of the rest, and that the city authorities
have no power, without legislative authority, to release the
public right in a dedicated street.
5. Lapse of time, however long the public right in a street
is suspended, though coupled with a user by the owner which
would otherwise be adverse, will not make title by prescription against the public.
6. The powers of filling and reclamation conferred by the
charter of the Hoboken Land and Improvement Company
will not be construed to extinguish the public right to streets
over such reclaimed land.
7. That under conditions above stated plaintiff could and
did succeed in recovering for Fourth Street.
8. The public right to an easement of access to the navigable wafers which existed when the Hoboken Company's
charter was passed, was entirely distinct, in its essential qualities, frofn the title of the. State in lands under tide-waters;
the former inheres in the State in its sovereign capacity, the
latter is strictly proprietary. A grant of the proprietary title
would-never operate as a release or extinguishment of a sov.ereign right, not necessarily included within the scope of the
grant.
9. That with respect to lands over which streets have been
laid, the ownership for all substantial purposes is in the public.
Nothing remains in the original proprietor but the naked fee,
which, on the assertion of the public right, is divested of all
beneficial interest..
10. The public easement is legally consistent with title to
iie soil in a private owner, and the legislative intent to vest
the proprietary title in defendants will have legal effect, without extinguishing the public right of access to the river
derived from the original dedication.
11. When two public rights of different origin, distinct in

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

their nature and capable of a separate enjo-nent, exist, a
grant of the one will not extinguish the other, iinless required
by clear and unequivocal language. The cardinal rule of
construction.is the inquiry whether the legislative gift can
take effect without drawing to it the additional right claimed.
If it can, the latter is, by operation of law, excluded from the
grant.
The above propositions are all extracted from the opinion
in the predous case.
It is quite manifest that in so far as .the present cases are
identical with Fourth Street, they are controlled by the above
case.
The defence to the present cases, if it is successful in any of
them, must rest on some circumstances or conditions that
were not in the Fourth Street case.
As to all points in which these cases coincide with Fourth
Street, it is practically res judicata in the state court, and
therefore in this court.
In addition to the authorities cited in the opinion above
referred'to, in support of the third of the above propositions,
reference is also made to the following: -Lockwood v. -New
York & -New caven Railroad, 37 Conn. 387; Peck v. Providence Steam Engine Co., 8 R. I. 353; Godfrey v. Alto, 12v
Illinois, 29; S.C. 52 Am. Dec. 476; Rowan v. Portland,8 B.
Mon. 232; Wood v. San Francisco,4 California, 190; -Xinor
v. San Francisco, 9 California, 39, 45; Tan J)ose v. -New
York, 17 Fed. Rep. 817; Potomac Steamboat Co. v. lijfer
Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672; Barney v. JKeokuk, 94
U. S: 324; Backus v. .Detroit, 49 Mich. 110; Steers v. Brook,
lyn, 101 N. Y. 51; Ledyard v. Ten Eyck, 36 Barb. 102.
The single exception from the rule that the federal courts
are bound by the construction put by the highest court of a
State on a state statute, is when such construction has
deprived a suitor of the constitutional protection referred to.
In no other. case does this court entertain appeals from the
-decree of the highest court of a State in the construction of
its laws. No such case is here. The fact that the controversy
in these cases relates to land under tide-water in a public river

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Piaintiff in Error.

does not make the questions arising in them "federal questions," for it is well settled in this court, that the people of
each State have acquired the absolute right to all the navigable waters and the soil under them. That right was not
granted by the Coustitutidn to the 'United States, but was
reserved to the States respectively. Barney v. Jfeokuk, 94:
U. S.324, 333, and cases cited.
The plaintiffs in error therefore respectfully contend that in
all the points in which the present cases are similar to the
Fourth Street case, they must be controlled by the decision in
that case, and the Circuit Court committed an error in disregarding or overruling it.
III. It remains to be considered what circumstances exist
in the present cases, or any of them, which distinguish them
from the Fourth Street case, and relieve them from the conclusive effect of that decision. This will require to some
extent a separate consideration of each case.
(1) River -t reet and Second Street.- The Pennsylvania
Railroad Company defends for these suits, and as its claim of
title includes the land claimed in each of these suits, th3y may
be considered together.
This claim, as before shown, is founded, first on a deed
from The Hoboken Land and Improvement Company to the
Camden & Amboy Railroad Company, dated December 1,
1864, and on a subsequent act of the legislature of New
Jersey, passed March 31, 1869, conferring on the United
Railway and Canal Companies of New Jersey, (the successors
in title of the Camden & Amboy Railroad Company, and now
succeeded by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company,) authority
to reclaim and improve certain lands, and, vhen so reclaimed
and improved, to possess and enjoy the same as owners thereof.
This act authorized the United Companies "to reclaim and
erect wharves and other improvements in front of any lands
nbw owned by or in trust for them, or either of them, or by
any company in which they now hold the controlling interest,
adjoining Kill von Kull, or any other tide-waters of the State;
and, when so reclaimed and improved, to have, hold, possess
and enjoy the same as owners thereof. Provided,That such

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

improvements shall be subject to the regulations (when applicable) as to the line of solid filling and as to pier lines, heretofore recommended in the report of the commissioners, made
and filed under the act, entitled ' An act to ascertain the rights
of the State and of riparian owners, in the lands lying under
the waters of the bay of New York and elsewhere in this
State,' approved April 11, 1864, but neither said improvements
nor those which may be pmade by said company in Harsimus
cove, shall be subject to any other restrictions, than those
contained in said report."
It is claimed on behalf of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company that this act applies to the land described in the deed
from the Hoboken Land and Improvement Company to the
Camden and Amboy Railroad Company and that it operated
to release and discharge any land improved or acquired under
its authority, from all public easements which might theretofore have xisted on the land. There are two answers to this
claim.
First. The act could iot apply to the land claimed in this
suit, because it was not owned by the companies named in this
act, nor by any of them, nor by any one in trust for them. It
was land under water which belonged to the State, as nothing
appears in the case to show that The Hoboken Land and Improvement Company ever acquired any title to it from the
State. It was held, by the Fourth Street case, that the grant
of power to purchase, fill up, and reclaim the lands of the
State was not a grant of the lands of the State. The same
has been repeatedly decided in New Jersey. roboken v. Hoboken Land and .Improvenent Co., 7 Vroom, (36 N., J. Law,)
540; Jersey City v. -Torris Canal Co., 1 Beasley, (12 N. J.
Eq.,) 547, 551; Aforris Canal Co. v. Central Railroad Co., 1
C. E. Green, (16 N. J, Eq.,) 419, 431; Stevens v. Paterson &
-NewarkRailroad Co., 5 Vroom, (34 N. J. Law,) 532, 534, 553;
New Fork, -Lake Erie, and Western Railroad v. Yard, 14
Vroom, (43 N. J. Law,) 121; S. C. in Error, Tb. 632.
Second. If the act of 1869 shall be held to apply to, and
include the lands in question in this suit, it does not follow
that the streets running or entitled to run over such lands are
thereby vacated.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

That grant of the power to reclaim and hold, does not
vacate the streets, was expressly held in the Fourth Street
case. If, therefore,-the act of 1869 was intended to vacate
streets, the intention must be found in the words, "but neither
said improvements, nor thbse which may be made by said
companies in Harsimus cove, shall be subject to any otier restrictions than those contained in said (Riparian Commissioners') report." It is argued that the extension of streets over
the reclaimed lands would subject its use to restrictions which
were intended to be abolished by that language.
But no such result can follow such an enactment. It would
be at variance with the most elementary and established rules
as to the construction of grants by which public rights are
dealt with. In fact, to give to this act of '1869 the construction claimed for it by the defendants, would render it of doubtful constitutionality.
The constitution of New Jersey (art. IV., sec. VII., ยง 4)
contains the following provision: "To avoid improper influences which may result from intermixing in one and the same
act, such things as have no proper relation to each other, every
law shall embrace but one object, and that shall be expressed
in the title."
In the case of the Penn&ylvania Railroad Co. v. .National
Railway Co., 8 C. E. Green, (23 N. J. Eq.,) 441, 455, the Court
of Chancery of New Jersey, speaking of the constitutional
provision above quoted, and of the things meant to be secured
by it, said: "They are to prevent men from obtaining from
the legislature the passage of acts without disclosing their real
meaning and purpose; to protect a legislature from being misled by doubtful or ambiguous language; to permit nothing to
The acquired from the public by covert and cunningly devised
phrases; to compel those who ask for special privileges to say
frankly and unmistakably what they mean, so that plain men
cannot fail to understand what it is they are asked to vote
away." There is not in the title of this act, or in the act itself,
the remotest allusion to Hoboken or to any street in any city,
nor does the power to improve lands mentioned in the title include the vacation of streets, much less is such an object ex-

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

pressed therein, and yet defendants would have the court decide
that in the language there used the legislature intended to
vote away the streets of the city of'Hoboken. See also Rader
v. Union Townshiyp, 10 Yroom, (39 N. J. Law,) 509, 512.
2. Piver Street.-The further grounds on which it is claimed
that River Street is taken out of the rule established by the
New Jersey court for Fourth Street, are: (a) That River Street
approaches the water by a line parallel to the Hudson River
and not at right angles thereto, and (b)that the right of extension rests upon the idea that where the street was dedicated
to the water line, and a new water line is made by filling in,
the street will be extended to such new water line because of
the right acquired by the public, through the dedication, to go
to the water, and that as the land in front of where River
Street originally struck high-water mark, by the Loss map, has
all been filled in, so that no extension of River Street can reach
the water, without passing beyond the bounds of the territory
included in the Loss map, and without going over lands granted
by the State to the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company, the right to extend the street to tide-water has
disappeared.
There certainly can be nothing in the point that the right of
extension does not exist as to River Street because it strikes the
water in a direction opposite to that of the other streets. The
right of extension to navigable water has been established in
regard to Hudson Street, in Jersey City, which was laid out
by'dedication, and precisely like River Street, in Hoboken,
reached the water of Communipaw Bay, south of Jersey City,
by a line parallel with the river, and at right angles to the
streets which approach the river transversely.
But the further argument is that, as the right to go to tidewater by a street cannot now be enjoyed without extending
the street beyond the bounds included in the original Loss
map, and without crossing lands granted by the State to the
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company, the
right is gone. It is respectfully submitted that this objection
is not open to and cannot avail the defendants in whose behalf
it is set up. The reason why River Street as originally dediVOL. CXxr--43

674,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cated cannot now get to tide-water on any part of the territory
included within the Loss map, is because The Hoboken Land
and Improvement Company have so filled up the bay or cove
to which the street originally ran as to exclude the tide-water
therefrom.
Such filling up, so far as it tended to prevent the street from
reaching tide-water, was unlawful. The Court of Errors in
the Fourth Street case made no exception founded on the direction in which the street approached the water. The principle laid down was that it was. the access to the water that
gave to the land on the street a peculiar value and gave the
public a right to have the streets extended to the water.
If, then, the defendants have filled in at the end of River
Street, a distance of one hundred feet, by a rule laid down in
the Fourth Street case, that would 4pso facto extend River
Street over that filling in, and so far as the filling in was
extended southerly the same result would follow. Each additional filling in would be an addition to or aggravation of
what the court described as "a public nuisance.".
It may be true, as found by the court, that in the present
condition of affairs the street cannot now reach tide-water
without going over land granted by the State to the M orris
and Essex Railroad Company, but that is no reason why the
street cannot be extended to tide-water, and if the defendants
by their unlawful filling in in front of this street have rendered the access to tide-water more difficult and expensive
than it otherwise would have been, that is no reason whytheir nuisance should be set up to prevent its getting to tidewater. The intervention of the land of the Morris and Essex
Railroad Company at a point where the street can now reach
tide-water does not deprive the city of the right to have it go
tlere. There is nothing in the grant to the Morris and Essex
Railroad Company, which would preclude the city from
ektending the street to or over its lands; non constat, but that
the c6inpany would, gladly have the street come to its lands.
The fact, of the existence of the Morris and Essex Railroad
Company's piers and basins is no obstruction to the street.
This precise point was passed upon by the Court of Errors in

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Argument for. Plaintiff in Error.

the case of Jersey City v. 3-.orris Canal Company, 1 Beasley,
(12 N. J. Eq.,) 5W. That was decided in 1859. In that case
the court held that by dedicating the street to the water the
public, represented by the city authorities, had the right to
extend it to tide-water, and that the fact that the legislature
had authorized the erection of a canal and basin between its
original terminus at the shore and the new terminus at tidewater, could not prevent the city from extending the street
across the canal basin to the new tide-water line; and although
in that case the basin, pier, and other works of the Morris
Canal Company- had been erected by competent and lawful
authority, and occupied the place required for the extension of
this street to the new tide-water line, the court held that, notwithstanding such obstruction, the common council had the
right to carry the street to the water.
3. Tkird Street. -An attempt is made to withdraw Third
Street from the operation of the decision of the Court of
Errors in the Fourth Street case by reference to certain provisions of the charter 6f the city of Hoboken. Subdivision 7
of the 40th section of that charter confers upon the Common
Council power to regulate and order the building of a dock at
the foot of Third Street, in said city, at the expense of said
city, such dock not to exceed in width the width of said street,
and to regulate sAid dock and the use thereof when built, and
the rates of wharfage, such wharfage to be received by said
corporation for their use and benefit; in connection with the
53d section of the same charter, by which it is enacted that
the Common Council shall have power to take any land that
they may adjudge necessary for the opening of Third Street,
upon paying to the owner the fair value of the lands taken
and of the improvements thereon, and the damage done to"
any diktinct lot or parcel, or tenement, 'by taking part oi it for
such "fUrpose,
provided, that the owners of property benefited
thereby shall bear a 'ust and, equitable proportion of- the
expenses and costs'of opening said street. The argument is,
that these two sections are to be.:conitued together, and. that
-the power to open Third Street was in ail of the 'oivor to
build the dock, and that the p&wer to taketlands by condem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

nation was an implied legislative admission that the street
could not be extended to the water without crossing lands
which would be required to be condenfned and paid for. To
this view there is a sufficient answer.
Third Street could be opened west much beyond the limit
of the dedication of the Loss map. It is found as a fact in
the case that the territorial limits of Hoboken embrace a large
tract of real estate adjoining the land in the limit of the Loss
map on the west, which, of course, was not affected by the
dedication, so that the extension of Third Street westerly on
such additional land could only be accomplished by the city
acquiring in some way the right to the lands needed for such
extension. This grant of power can, therefore, as well have
referred in the legislative mind to the extension of Third Street
west, as to the extension of Third Street to the river. But
even if the legislature had by express terms conferred upon
the common council the power to condemn such lands as
might be necessary t6 extend Third Street from the orlginal
shore line to the .Hudson River, such grant of power could not
be held to be a legislative decision that such land could not be
taken without condemnation. That was a question which the
legislature was not competent to decide. It was a judicial
question, not a legislative one, and if there was even a doubt
in the legislative mind as to the power of the common council
to extend Third Street over reclaimed land to the water for
the purpose of building the dock, the power to condemn, if it
should be necessary, might well be conferred, without its
being tortured into a legislative declaration that thepower
was necessary to be exercised in that particular case.
4. Riparian Commissioners' Grants.-The only remaining circumstance which distinguishes any of the present cases
from the Fourth Street case, is the fact that some of the
defendants claim to have obtained grants for lands under
water, including, the premises claimed in these suits, which,
being grants from the State, operated to vacate the streets or
to extinguish the public right to streets over the linds thus
granted. These grants were made by the Riparian Commissioners under the authority of the act of 1869, before referred

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to, a dopy of which is printed in the pamphlet annexed to the
record. These grants being in the name and on the part of
the State.of New Jersey, by persons acting as agents for the
State are subject to the same rule of constructior which applies to grants made directly by the legislature, namely, that
nothing passes by implication; in fact, a still more restrictive
construction will apply to these grants because they are not
made by the legislature, but in pursuance of power delegated
by the legislature, and, the act delegating the power to the
Riparian Commissioners to make the grants does not authorize
them to vacate that street. They have no authority whatever
over the subject. The vacation or laying out of a street is a
municipal or legislative act. The Riparian Commissioners
deal only with the proprietary rights of the State, and have
no jurisdiction whatever over any such question. American
Dock and Im-provernent Comnay v. Trustees of Public Schools,
8 Stewart, (35 N. X. Eq.,) 281.
5. Alluvion.- The court below, in its fourth conclusion of
law holds that the State has the right to fill in and make
Ia'nd as far as its ownership extends, and that the soil thus acquired was in no sense alluvion or accretion, which became
the property of the shore owner, but remained the land of the
State or its grantees, and that no right or authority existed in
the shore owner, by dedicating to the public streets to the limits of her ownership, to charge such newly made land with the
burden of an easement over it.
However correct the. law as thus stated may be, it has no
application to the facts of this case, for it is found as a fact
that the filling and reclamation was done by the Hoboken
Land and Improvement Company and their grantees, and that
such land under water was in front of and adjoining the real
estate purchased by that company.
We contend that when the reclamation is done by the shore
owner the land reclaimed partakes of the nature of alluvion or
accretion, and is assimilated in its title, estate and incidents to
-ersoy City v.
those of the land to which it became attached.
[orris Canal Co., supra; Lockwood v. New tork & NSew
Htaven Railroad Co., 37 Conn. 391; Calaplbell v. Laclede Ga8

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Co., 84 Missouri, 352, 312; Benson v. .ooe, 86 Missouri, 352;
Steers v. Brooklyn, 51 W. Y. 51.
MR. JUSTICE MATMrEWS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In the year 1813 the Court o Errors and Appeals of New
Jersey decided the case of the Hoboken Land and Improvement Co. v. Hoboken, 7 Vroom, (36 N. J. Law,) 540. It was
an action of ejectment for the recovery of the possession of a
strip of land, constituting the extension of Fourth Street, as
laid out on the Loss map, over lands below the original highwater mark, reclaimed by the plaintiff in error in that suit,
continued to the new water front. The unanimous judgment
of that court-afflrmed the right of the city of Hoboken to the
premises in dispute, being the extension of that street as a
public highway. The foundation of that judgment is the dedication, according to the Loss map, of the streets delineated
upon it as extending to the line of high-water mark at that
date, and the nature of the title acquired by the Hoboken
Land and Improvement Company, under the terms of their
charter, act of February 21, 1838, to the land made by filling
in, in front of the original high-water mark, upon and across
which itwas proposed to extend the street so as to secure
access in behalf of the public to the stream of the river. It is
argued that, as the present defendants claim title through the
Hoboken Land and Improvement Company, to premises similarly situated and equally affected by the original dedibation,
the judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals of New
Jersey in that case conclusively establishes the law applibable
to the present, and requires a reversal of the judgments of the
Circuit Court of the United States.
It becomes necessary, therefore, at the outset, to ascertain
and define the terms and scope of that judgment. In that
case the court said (p. 546): "The title to the soil between
the high-water line, as shown on Loss's map, and the present
high-water line was originally in the State. It became the
property of the defendants by reclamation under the powers

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

contained in their charter. The contention was that it was
not competent for Colonel Stevens to impress upon lands, the
property.of the State, a servitude such as the plaintiffs are seeking to have them appropriated to, and that when the defendants
acquired title under legislative permission, they were entitled
to hold such lands unimpaired by the servitude imposed upon
the upland. The first branch of this proposition is conceded.
But whether it will be available to his grantees to defeat the
present claim of the city will depend upon considerations incident to the nature and effect of the original dedication. The
treet as dedicated extended to the high-water mark as it then
was. There is no street shown on the map or in fact along
the river in which Fourth Street might terminate. River
Street, which is the first street crossing Fourth Street parallel
with the river, is laid down on the map at a distance of about
seventy-five feet from the high-water line as it appears on the
Loss map. The location of Fourth Street with its terminus
at the water, demonstrates conclusively that its purpose was
to provide a means of access for the public to the navigable
waters, and such was the scope and purpose of the dedication."
The court then refers to the case of lNew Orleans v. The
United States, 10 Pet. 662, 717, as showing that, according
to the recognized law concerning dedications to public use, a
grant, of land bounded on a stream which has gradually changed
its course by alluvial formations extends to the neW boundaries, including the accumulated soil, and that, on the same
principle, it had been held in that State in the case of Jersey
City v. Morris Canal, 1 Beasley, (12 N. J. Eq.,) 541, that a
dedicated street terminating at the waters of a navigable rive:'
is continued to the new water front obtained by filing in in
front on the shore by the owner of the land over which the
street was dedicated; and to the same point the court cites
the cases of The People v. -Lambier,5 Denio, 9, and Barclay
v. Howell's Lessees, 6 Pet. 498. The learned judge, delivering
the opinion of the New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals,
continues thus (p. 548): "In my judgment these cases declare the law correctly on this subject. The essence of the
gift is the means of access to the public waters of the river,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the advantage of which induced the growth of the city by
reason of its adjacency and connection' with the important
navigable waters-of the Hudson, which gave a peculiar commercial value to the lots put in the market by the dedication,
which can only .be preserved by maintaining unbroken the
connection of the streets with the navigable river. Any obstructions of that access would not only derogate from the
effect of the gift, but would also be a public nuisance." Referring then to the title claimed by the Hoboken Land and
Improvement Company, adverse to the application of this
presumptive right growing out of the original dedication on
behalf of the public, the court say. (p. 549): "The legislature
alone has the power to release the dedicated lands and discharge the public servitude when it once has attached. Extinguishment by legislative action, it is insisted, has been effected as to a part of the premises in dispute by the fourth
section of the defendants' act of incorporation. The argument
was that the land below high water, being the property of
the State, and both the easement and the title being under
legislative control, the extinguishment of the former, by a
necessary implication, resulted from the grant of the latter.
I am unwilling to concur in this construction of the statute.
The grant to the defendants is not of lands of the State in
express and definite terms. The right conferred is a mere
privilege 'of reclamation and appropriation to private uses.
Its exercise is expressly limited 'to lands covered with water
in front of and adjoining lands that should be owned by the
corporation. The proviso annexed to the grant shows clearly
the legislative intent that the rights of others owning to the
water should not be interfered with without express consint."
Referring then to certain authorities as justifying this construction, the opinion proceeds (p. 551): "It is not necessary
on the present occasion to express any opinion as to whether
the defendants could under their charter have filled in in front
of streets terminating at the water as against the public authorities resisting the execution of the work. The cases above
cited are referred to to show the strictness of the construction
made of statutes granting privileges of this kind to private

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.

.681

Opinion of the Court.

persons. . . . The defendants' act of incorporation would
probably relieve the defendants after the work was executed
from the consequences of an unlawful encroachment on public
lands in front of the streets, and of a nuisance in the obstruction of navigation; but it cannot affect the public easement
of access to the navigable waters which existed before the act
was passed. That public right is entirely distinct in its essential qualities from the title of the State in lands under tidewaters. The former inheres in the State in its sovereign capacity. The latter is strictly proprietary. A grant of the
proprietary title will never operate as a release or extinguishment of a sovereign right not necessarily included within the
scope of the grant. 17e State, -3orrisCanal and Banking
Cornpany v. Haigt, 7 Vroom, (36 R . J. Law,) 471. The
grant .to the defendants comprised the valuable privilege of
acquiring title to lands under tide-waters along their entire
frontage on the river. The public easement is legally consistent with title to the soil in a private owner, and the legislative
intent to vest the propietary title in the defendants will have
legal effect without extinguishing the public right of access to
the river, derived from the original dedication. Where two
public rights of different origin, distinct in their nature, and
capable of separate enjoyment, exist, a grafit of one will not
extinguish the other unless required by clear and unequivocal language. The cardinal rule of construction is the inquiry whether the legislative gift can take effect without
drawing to it the additional right claimed. If it can, the latter is by operation of law excluded from the grant. Stevens v.
Paterson and Newark Railroad Co., 5 Vroom, (34 N. J. Law,)
532. . . . The act incorporating the defendants contains
no language indicative of an intent to extinguish the public
right of access to the river, and the defendants hold the title
acquired by legislative permission, subject to the obligation
that resulted from the original dedication of permitting the
connection of the street with the navigable waters to remain
unbroken."
The two principal propositions established by this decision,
so far as material to be considered in these cases, appear

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

by these extracts from the opinion, therefore, to be as follows:
1st, that the scope and purpose of the original dedication of
the streets terminating at the water was to provide a means
of access for the public to the navigable waters of the Hudson
River; and, 2d, that the intent and purpose of this dedication
were not defeated by the rights acquired by the Hoboken
Land and Improvement Company, under the terms of its
charter, to the lands in front of the streets terminating at the
water as filled in by that company.
That company, it wil, be understood, had become the successor to the title of the original proprietor, Colonel John
Stevens, to the lands owned by him embraced within the
limits of the Loss map not previously sold. The object of its
incorporation and its principal powers in respect thereto, are
stated in the fourth section of its charter, as follows:
"SEc. 4. And be it enacted, That the said company be, and
they are hereby, empowered to improve all such lands as they
are hereby authorized to own or purchase, by laying out that
portion of the same whfch lies north of Fourth Street, in the
village of Hoboken, into 'lots, streets, squares, lanes, alleys,
and other divisions; of levelling, raising, and grading the
same, or making thereon all such wharves, workshops, factories, warehouses, stores, dwellings, and such other buildings
and improvements as may be found or" deme..d necessary,
ornamental, or convenient, and constructing; on the lands of
the said company aqueducts or reservoirs--for conveying,
collecting, and provid.ing pure and wholesome water; and
letting, renting, leasing, mortgaging, selling, or changipg the
same, or using any lot or other portioi of any of the said lands
for depots, and for agricultural, mining, or manufacturing
purposes; and they shall have power to purchase, fill up,
occupy, possess, and enjoy all land covered with water fronting
and adjoining the lands that may be owned by them; amd
they may construct thereon wharves, harbors piers, and slips,
and all other structures requisite or proper for commercial and
shipping purposes; and when they shall have purchased the
ferry right fr6m the owners thereof they may enjoy the same,
and purchase and build steamboats: Prqvided,'it shall not be

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

lawful for the said company to fill up any such land covered
with water, nor to.construct any dock, pier, or wharf immediately in front of the lands of any other person or persons
owning down to the water, without the consent of such person
or persons so owning, first had in writing and obtained."
Under this section it was that they proceeded to fill up,
occupy, and improve the land covered with water fronting
and adjoining the lands in the city of Hoboken which they
had purchased, filling as they progressed in front of the several
streets terminating on the river, as well as in front of the
other lands which they had bought. They acquired no title
to the lands reclaimed, except according to the terms of the
permission granted in this section of the charter. The construction put upon this section by the New Jersey Court of
Errors and Appeals was in substance that the license thereby
granted to the company did not convey an unqualified title to
the reclaimed lands in front of the streets, and therefore that
the authority conferred by it was not intended to exclude the
public right of access to the navigable water by. an extension
of the streets and highways laid out on the original land for
that purpose.
It remains to be considered whether, consistently with that
view of the law, the circumstances of the present cases distinguish them from the case decided, so as to justify us in affirming upon other grounds the judgments of the Circuit Court of
the United States now under reiew.
It appears from the findings of fact that the several defendants in these causes are the assignees of the Hoboken Land
and Improvement Company, and successors to that company
in respect to the parcels of land sought to be recovered, of all
its rights and title und-ir its charter. The Hoboken Land and.
Improvement Company conveyed the premises held by the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company by a deed executed December 1, 1864, in consideration of $68,583.33, the grantee being
the Camden and Amboy IRailroad Company. On March 31,
1869, the legislature of New Jersey passed an act entitled
"An act to enable the united companies to improve lands
under *ater at Kill von Kull and other places." Laws 1869,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

c. 386, p. 1026. This act recites that the united companies
had recently secured to the State the payment of $500,000
"for the grant of lands under water in front of lands owned
by them, and are desirous of having the right and privilege of
erecting and making wharves, piers, and other improvements
in front of other lands now owned by or in trust for them, so
that they may safely make such improvements'as they may
find necessary to fapilitate their business." It enacts "that
the said united companies shall be, and they are hereby,
authorized to reclaim and erect wharves and other improvements in front of any lands now owned by or in trust for
them, or either of them, or by any company in which they
now hold the controlling interest, adjoining Kill von Kull, or
aily other tide-waters of the State, and when so reclaimed
and improved, to hold and possess and enjoy the same as
owners thereof." It provides that such improvements shall
be subject to the regulations, where applicable, as to the line
of solid filling and as to pier lines heretofore recommended in
the report of the commissioners made and filed under the act
entitled "An act to ascertain the rights of the State and of
the riparian owners in the lands lying under the waters of the
bay of New York and elsewhere in the State," approved April
11, 1864, Laws of 1864, p. 681; but "neither said improvements, nor those which may be made by said companies in
Harsimus Cove, shall be subject to any other restrictions than
those contained in said report." It was further provided that
the united companies should pay the further sum of $20,000
in full satisfaction for the right and privilege thereby granted,
and that they should, on or before July 1, file in the office of
the Secretary of State a map and description of the lands
under water in front of the upland referred to in the section.
On the same day on which this act was passed and took
effect, March 31, 1869, the legislature of New Jersey passed
an act entitled a "Supplement to an act entitled '.An act to
ascertain the rights of the State, and of riparian owners in the
lands lying under the waters of the Bay of New York and
elsewhere in this State,' approved April 11, 1864:." Laws of
1869, p. 1017; Revision 1871, p. 982. By this act it was pro-

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the. Court.

vided that the bulkhead line or lines of solid filling, and the
pier lines in the tide-waters of the Hudson River, New York
Bay, and Kill von Kull, lying between Enyard's dock, on the
Kill von Kull, and the New York State line, so far as they
had been recommended and reported to the legislature by the
commissioneri appointed under the original act, were adopted
and declared to be fixed and established as the exterior bulkhead and pier lines between the points above named, as shown
upon the maps accompanying the reports of the commissioners and fied in the office of the Secretary of State. The act
made it unlawful to extend any structures into the river beyond these lines. It repealed an act approved March 18, 1851,
the object of which was to authorize the owners of lands upon
tide-waters to build wharves in front of the same, so far as the
tide-waters of the Hudson River, New York Bay, and Kill von
Kull were concerned, providing that said repeal "shall not be
construed to restore any supposed usage, right, custom, or local
common law, founded upon the tacit consent of the State, or
otherwise, to fill in any land under water below mean high
tide;"1 and it prohibited any person from filling in, building
on, or making any erection on, or reclaiming any land under the
tide-waters of the State in New York Bay, Hudson River, or
Kill von Kull without the grant or permission of the commissioners. This, the third section of the act, however, contained
the following proviso: "Provided, however, that neither this
section, nor any provision in this act contained, shall in any
wise repeal or impair any grant of land under water, or right
to reclaim made directly by legislative act, or grant, or license,
power or authority, so made or given, to purchase, fill up,
occupy, possess and enjoy lands covered with water fronting
and adjoining lands owned, or authorized to be owned, by the
corporation, or grantee, or licensee, in the legislative act mentioned, its, his or their representatives, grantee or assigns, or to
repeal or impair any grant or license, poker or authority to
erect or build docks, wharves and piers opposite and adjoining
land owned or authorized to be owned by the corporation, or
grantee, or licensee, in the legislative act mentioned, its, his or
their representatives, grantees or assigns, heretofore made or

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion 'of the Court.

given directly by legislative act, whether said acts are or are
not repealable, and as to any revocable license given by the
board of chosen freeholders of a county to build docks, wharves
or piers, or to fill in or reclaim any lands under water in the
said New York. Day, Hudson RiP}er or Kill von Kull, the same
shall be irrevodable, so far as th6 land under water has been
reclaimed or built upon under such license at the time that
this act takes effect."
The fourth section of the act provides that in case any person, who by any legislative act is a grantee or licensee, or has
any such power or authority, shall be entitled to a deed in the
name of -the State of New Jersey conveying the land in the
proviso to the third section mentioned, whether under water
.at that time or not, with the benefit of an express covenant
that the State would not make or give any grant or license,
power or authority affecting lands under water in front of said
lands; and the commissioners, or any two of them, with the
Governor and Attorney General for the time being, were
authorized to execute and deliver, and acknowledge, in the
name of the State, a lease in )!erpetuity to such grantee or
licensee of such lands and rights, reserving an annual rental of
three dollars for each lineal .foot measuring on the bulkhead
line, or a conveyance in fee upon the payment of fifty dollars
for each lineal foot meashring on the bulkhead line in front of
the land included in said coiyeyance. It was also provided
that "the c6nveyance or lease. of the commissioners under this
or any other section of this act shall not merely pass the title
to the land-therein descr~bed, but the right of the grantee or
licensee, individual or corporation, his, her or their heirs and
a signs, toexclude to the'exterior bulkhead line the tide-water,
by filling in or otherwise improying thle same, and to appropriate the land to exclusive private uses, and so far as the
upland, from time to time made, shall adjoin the navigable
water, the said conveyance or lease shall vest in the grantee or
licensee, individual or corporation, and their heirs and assigns,
the rights to the perquisites of wharfage, and other like profits, tolls and charges."
Under the provisions of said act, the State of New Jersey,

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

according to the findings of fact, for a valuable consideration,
has conveyed to the Hoboken Land and Improvement Company, by deeds and conveyances properly executed, or to its
assigns, the premises claimed in the several suifs against the
defendants other than the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
An objection is taken in argument to the validity, under the
Constitution of New Jersey, of the act to enable the united
companies to improve land under water at Kill von Kull and
other places of March 31, 1869, under which the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company claims title, on the ground that the title of
the act does not sufficiently indicate its subje6t and that the
subject is not single. The article of the state constitution to
which this act is alleged to be repugnant is article 4, section T,
paragraph 4, as follows: "To avoid improper influen ces which
may result from intermixing in one and the same act such
things as have no proper relation to each other, every law
shall embrace but one object, and that shall be -expressed in
the title." We cannot think, however, that this objection is
well founded. The subject of the enactment is single ; the
united compahies, it being recited, having paid $500,000 for
the grant of lands unde. water in front of lands owned by
them, were desirous of having the right and privilege of erecting and making wharves, piers, and other improvements in
front of other lands now owned by or in trust for them, so
that they might safely make such improvements as they might
find necessary to facilitate their business. This is the declared
purpose of the act. It has and professes to have but a single
object; this was to confirm the title of the united companies
to the lands described, and to define the uses to which they
were subject, and to which they might lawfully be devoted.
The subject matter of the legislation was the interest of the
united companies in respect to such land wherever situated.
For the right conveyed by the new act, a further consideration
of $20,000 was exacted and paid, and it was certainly appropriate that, in the same act requiring that consideration to be
paid, thefe should be a full statement of all the rights intended
to be secured. - The statute, therefore, is unobjectionable in
point of form.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion'of the Court.

It is next objected that this act of 1869 can have no application to the lands in question, because by its terms it applies
only to lands under water in front of upland owned by the
grantees, and- that it did not appear that at that time the
united companies owned any upland which these lands were
in front of. We cannot doubt, however, that the land in question refers to and embraces the premises in controversy. It
,expressly refers to all lands owned by the united companies
adjoining any of the tide-waters of the State, aid undoubtedly
had in view the lands conveyed by the Hoboken Land and
Improvement Company by the deed of December 1, 1864.
These they were authorized to reclaim, so far as necessary, by
filling out to the lines fixed by the commissioners under the
act of April 11 1864, as lines of solid filling and as pier lines,
upon which they were authorized to erect wharves and other
improvements, and when so reclaimed and improved to have,
hold, possess and enjoy the same as owners thereof, and so
absolutely such owners as that the improvements should not
be subject to any other restrictions than those contained in the
report of the commissioners. Under this act, having paid the
consideration required, they filed the map and the description
of the lands specified in the last proviso of the section, and the
findings of the. Circuit Court authorize us to assume that this
map and description embraced the premises in controversy.
In the examination of the effect to be given to the riparian
laws of the State of Ne* Jersey by the act of April 11, 1864,
in connection with the supplementary act of March 31, 1869,
it is to be borne in mind that the lands below high-water
mark, constituting the shores and submerged lands of the
navigable waters of the State, were, according to its laws, the,
property of the State as sovereign. Over these lands it had
absolute and exclusive dominion, including the right to appropriate them to such uses as might best serve its views of the
public interest, subject to the power conferred by the Constitution upon Congress to regulate foreign and interstate commerce. The object of the legislation in question was evidently
to define the relative rights of the State, representing the public sovereignty and interest, and of the owners of land bounded

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

by high-water mark. The regulations to this end had in view
a definite and permanent demarcation of the line in the water,
beyond which there should be no obstructions or impediments
to the public right of navigation; they also contemplated, as
of equal importance, the manner in which and the persons by
whom the intermediate space between those exterior lines and
the original high-water mark should be filled up, reclaimed,
occupied, and used, so as to make the enjoyment of such property most valuable to private and public interests involved in
the public right of navigating the water. It was for this reason that this space was made the subject of grants by the State
to corporations and other persons who were riparian owners
adjacent thereto, with authority to erect or build thereon
docks, wharves, and piers; and that prior grants of a similar
character under legislative authority, even although in the
form of mere executed licenses, were confirmed and perpetuated. It was for that reason that in the grant to the united
companies this right and privilege of erecting and making
wharves, piers, and other improvements was declared to be
"so that they may safely make such improvements as they
may find necessary to facilitate their business." For the same
reason it was declared in the act of March 31, 1869, that the
conveyance or lease of the commissioners under the act should
not merely pass the title to the land therein described, but the
right to reclaim and fill in and otherwise improve the same,
and "to appropriate the land to exclusive private uses." In
view of the same policy it was that -by the same act, in reference to land under water which had not been improved, and
in respect to which no authority or license to reclaim the same
had been previously granted, it was provided that the grant
from the State should be offered first to the riparian proprietor, and if after six months' notice he declined to buy the same
from the State at its statutory price, the commissioners were
authorized to grant the same to others having no riparian
ownership, on condition, however, that the interest of the riparian ownei as such in the shore and front of his land thus to
be taken from his use should be paid for at a valuation to be
judicially ascertained. The intent of, this legislation is, thereVOL. cxxrv--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

fore, manifest to treat the title and interest of the State in
these shore lands as a distinct and separate estate, to be dealt
with and disposed of in accordance with the terms of th6
statutes; first, by a sale and conveyance to the riparian owner
himself, or to his assignees; and, second, in case Cf his neglect
to take from the Statd its grant on the terms offered, then to
a stranger, who, succeeding to the State's title, would have no
relation to the adjacent riparian owner, except that of a common boundary. The title acquired by such a grantee, therefore, differs in every respect from that of a riparian owner to
the alluvial accretions made by the changes in a shifting stream
which constitutes the boundary of his possessions. The latter
comes to him by virtue of his title to land bounded by a
stream, and belongs to, him because it is within the description
of his original grant; -but the title under the :New Jersey
grants is not only of a new.estate, but in a new subject divided
from the upland or riparian property by a fixed and -permanent
boundary.
The nature of the title in the State to lands under tide-water
was thoroughly considered by the Court of Errors and Appeals
of New-Jersey in the case of Stevens v. Patemon and _fewark
Railroad Co., 5 Vroom, (34 . J. Law,) 532. It was there
declared (p. 549): "That all navigable waters within the territorial limits of the State, and the soil under such waters, belong in actual propriety to the public; that the riparian
owner by theccommon law has no peculiar rights in this public domain as incidents of his estate, and that the privileges
he possesses by the local custom, or by force of the wharf act,
to acquire such rights, can, before possession has been taken,
be regulated or revoked at the will of the legislature. The
result i-, that ther6 is no legal obstacle to a grant by the legislature.-to the defendants of that part of the property of the
public which lies in front-of the lands of the plaintiff, and
which is below high-water mark."
It was, therefore, held in that case, that it was competent
for the legislative power of the State to grant to a stranger
lands constituting the shore of a navigablP river under tidewater, below the high-water mark, to be occupied and used

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD

CO.

Opinion-of the Court.

with structures and improvements in such a manner as to cut
off the access of the riparian owner from his land to the water,
and that without making compensation to him for such loss.
The act of March 31, 1869, as we have seen, afterward secured
to the riparian owner the option of purchasing from the State
its title to the shore, or, if granted to a stranger, compensation
for the value of his privilege.
Having in view the manifest policy of this legislation, and
the force and meaning of its language, we do not hesitate to
adopt the conclusion that the several grants qf the State to
the united companies, under the act of March 31, 1869, to enable them to improve their lands under water at Kill von Kull
and other places, and the grints under the general act of the
same date, under which the other defendants claim, were.
intended to secure to the grantees the whole beneficial interest
id estate in the property described, for their exclusive use for
the purposes expressed and intended in the grants. And, construing these conveyances most strongly in favor of the public,
and yet so as not to defeat the grants themselves, we also conclude that the rights conveyed exclude every right of use or
occupancy on the part of the public in the land tself. The
land granted is specifically described by metes and bounds.
The grant is a grant of the estate in the land, and not of a
mere franchise or incorporeal hereditament. The uses declared
are such as require an exclusive possession by the grantees, that
they may hold, possess, improve, and use the same for their
own use and profit, according to the nature of the business
which by law they are authorized to conduct. In other words,
under these grants the land conveyed is held by the grantees
on the same terms on which all other lands are held by private persons under absolute titles, kind every previous right of
the State of New Jersey therein, whether proprietary or sovereign, is transferred or extinguished, except sich sovereign
rights as the State may lawfully exewise over all other private
property.
It is further objected, however, that upon this supposition
that the grants of the State in question are absolute and
unqualified, nevertheless they operated only upon the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

which the State had when it made them; and that, construing
the original dedication of Stevens by the Loss map of- the
streets to the river as containing an implied covenant that
they should be extended through any after-acquired lands
thereafter owned by Stevens or by those claiming under him,
the conclusion follows that the defendants, on acquiring the
title of the State to the premises in dispute, were thereafter
estopped to deny the right of the city of Hoboken to the
easement which it geeks to establish by its recovery in these
actions. It is admitted in the argument by counsel for the
plaintiff, that the dedication could not impose a burden on the
lands of the State, afid that no such burden existed as long as
the State remained the owner; bNt it is contended that, as the
grants of the State only operated on its present title, that
"when the State's title passed to the successor of John
Stevens, who was estopped from excluding these streets from
access" td tide-water, the right as against him by estoppel
sprang at once into existence and estopped him and all claiming under him." Suppose, instead of a dedication, it is said,
John Stevens had made an express covenant with the city,
that, as he acquired the State's title to these lands and reclaimed them, he would continue the streets to the new waterline. In such case no one would contend that the riparian
acts, or the grants made under them, would discharge such
liability; it would attach to the lands as he acquired them,
and bind him and his assigns. The dedication operates; it is
claimed, on the same principle. No grant of the State's title
would extinguish a liability which could noit attach until after
the State had parted with all its title to the lands.
But in-this case there was no express covenant, and if any
to that effect can be implied by law, it arises only upon the
principle of an estoppel. Whether such an estoppel would
arise upon the circumstances of the case, itis not necessary for
us to discuss or decide. If we suppose it to exist, so that if the
title acquired by the defendants from the State had been
acquired from some other source, it would have been affected
by it; nevertheless, the estoppel cannot apply to the defendants as successors to the title of the State. The grant, being

HOBOKEN v. PENN. RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

from the State, creates an estoppel against the estoppel; for
the State, in respect to the easements claimed, is the representative of the public, superior in authority and paramount in
right to the city of Hoboken; and, as we have already seen,
the existence of the easement defeats the grant of the State.
The State, therefore, being estopped by its grant is estopped
to deny its effect to extinguish the public right to the easement
claimed. The right insisted upon in these actions by tho city
of Hoboken is the pullc right, and not the right of individual
citizens, claiming by virtue of conveyances of lots abutting on
streets made by Stevens or his successors in the title. The
public right represented by the" plaintiff is subordinate to the.
State, and subject to its control. The State may release the
obligation to the public, may discharge the land of the burden
of the easement, and extinguish the public right to its enjoy'inent. Whatever it may do in that behalf conclusively binds
the local authorities, when, as in the present cases, the rights
of action asserted are based exclusively on the public right.
The extension of the easement of the public streets over the
shore, when filled up below the original high-water mark to a
new water-line, is, by the supposition, made, a mere legal conclusion. The original proprietor had no power to extend the
dedication beyond his own lines over the public domain. The
estd'ppPl sought to be raised against him by his subsequent acquisition of the title of the State to the shore is a mere conclusion of law, and may be extinguished by a subsequent law.
Such is the present case. If the law prior to the statutes of
March 31, 1869, extended the easements of the dedidated
streets to the newly made shore line, a subsequent law might
extinguish it. This is what in fact was done, for the statutes
of that date were not merely grants of rights of property, but
were laws, which had the force of repealing all prior laws
inconsistent with them.'
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the grants from the State
of New Jersey, under which the defendants claim, respectively,
are a complete bar to the recovery sought against them in
these suits. The effect of these grants was not considered or
determined by the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

sey in the case of the Hoboken "and and I.
ovement Company v. Hoboken, 7 Vroom, 540, and they were not elements
in that judgment. The present cases are decided upon the
distinction created by these grants from the State. It has not
been necessary, therefore, for us to consider other questions
raised in the argument in reference to the soundness in point
of law of the judgment of the courts of New Jersey upon the
facts involved, nor as to our obligation to follow that judgment as conclusive evidence of the settled law of the State on
the subject. The new, elelnents which have been introduced
into these cases establish the rights -of the defendants, as we
have declared them, upon the basis of the absolute and unqualified ,itle derived by them under direct grants from the State
of New Jersey. Under these grants they. have and hold the
rightful and exclusive possession of the premises in controversy
agiinst the adverse claim of the plaintiff to any easement or
right of way upon and over them, by virtue of the original
dedication of the streets to high-water mark on the Loss map.
The several judgments of the Circuit Court in these cases
are, therefore,
___
_
Affirmed.
ANDREWS v. HOVEY.
APEAL FROM THE CTRVuIT COURT

OF THE uNrED STATES FOR

THE SOJJTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted January 711.1888.-Decided February 20, 1888.

The decision of this court in Andrews v. Hovey, 123 U. S. 267, adjudging
reissued lotters-patent'No. 4372, granted to Nelson W. Green, May 9,.
1871, for an "'improvement in the method of constructing artesian
wells "to be invalid, confirmed, on an application for a rehearing.
The case of .iendall v. WIrinsor, 21 How. 322, and other cases examined.
The question of the proper construction of the second clause of ยง 7 of the
patent act of March 3, 1839, 5 Stat. 354, as affecting the validity of a
patent, considered.

Tins was a petition for a rehearing of the case. decided at
this term and reported in 123 U. S. at page 267. The allegatiodfs and prayer of the petitioners were as follows :

