OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

WORTHINGTON v. ABBOTT.
EJ;ROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Argued January 19, 1888.-Decided January 30, 1888.

Rolled iron, in straight flat pieces, about twelve feet long, three-eighths of
an inch wide, and three-sixteenths of an inch thick, slightly curved on
their edges, made for the special purpose of making nails, known in
commerce as nail-rods, not bought or sold as bar iron, and not known in
a commercial sense as bar iron, was not dutiable at one and one-half
cents a pound, as "bar iron, rolled or hammered, comprising flats less
than three-eighths of an inch or more than two inches thick, or less than
one inch or more than six inches wide," under § 2501 of the Revised
Statltes, (p. 464, 2d ed.,) but was dutiable at one and one-fourth cents a
pound, as "all other descriptions of rolled or hammered iron not otherwise provided for," under the same section (p. 465).

THIS was an action to recover back an alleged excess of
duties-demanded and paid in the revenue district of Boston
and Charlestown. Judgment for plaintiff, to review which
defendant sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Solicitor General-for plaintiff in error.
.r.

hares L
Zevi IFoodury for defendants in error.

MR. JUsTicE BIATOHFOID delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, by the memberg of
the copartnership firm of Jere. Abbott & Co., against Roland
Worthington, collector of customs, to recover the sum of
$56.11, as an alleged excess of duties on Swedish iron nail-rods
imported by them into the port of Boston. After issue joined,
a jury trial was duly waived and the case was tried by the
court without a jury, and a judgment was entered for the

WORTHINGTON v. ABBOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs for the above amount of damages and for costs, to
review which the defendant has brought a writ of error.
There is a bill of exceptions, which states that the defendant
liquidated the duties on the nail-rods, under § 2501 of the Revised Statutes, Schedule E, (p. 464, 2d. ed.,) as "Bar iron, rolled
or hammered, comprising fiats less than three-eighths of an
inch or more than two inches. thick, or less than one inch or
more than six inches wide," at one cent and one-half per
pound; that the plaintiffs contended that the duties should
have been liquidated under the7 following clause in Schedule E
of .§ 2504 (p. 465): "All other descriptions of iolled or hammered iron not otherwise provided for: one cent and onefourth per pound;" and that the plaintiffs paid the duties as
liquidated under protest, took due appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury, and seasonably brought this action to recover
the excess claimed to have been illegally exacted. The bill of
exceptions then proceeds:
"It further appeared in evidence at the trial, that the merchandise in controversy was rolled iron, in straight fiat pieces,
about twelve feet long, three-eighths of an inch wide, and
three-sixteenths of an inch thick, slightly curved on their
edges, and that they were made for the special purpose of
mal'ng nails. It further appeared in evidence, that, prior to
and in 187,4, and subseqiently, such iron was known in commerce as nail-rods, and had not been bought or sold as bar iron,
and that, in a commercial sense, nail-rods are not known as bar
iron; that, in similitude, the iron in question most resembles
scroll iron, in its shapes and sizes, but it was not known commercially as scroll iron. The defendant thereupon requested
the court to rule, that, in the provision of the statutes under
which the duties were liquidated, bar iron, comprising certain
sizes and descriptions, was used in the sense of 'iron in bars,'
comprising those sizes and descriptions, and was not used in a
commercial or technical sense; that, as the iron iulported
came directly within the statute description of ' bar iron,
rolled or hammered, comprising fiats less than three-eightis of
an inch or more than two inches thick, or less than one inch or
more than six inches wide,' the duties were properly assessed

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and liquidated; and that, on the evidence in the cage, the
plaintiffs were not entitled to recover. But the court declined
so to rule, and ruled that nail-rods, having acquired a specific
commercial designation among traders and importers, and haying been designated by a specific name in previouis legislation,
,would not properly come under the general term I bar iron 'in
the Revised Statutes, but should be classified as a description
of rolled or hammered iron not otherwise provided for, and so
subject to a duty of one and one-fourth cents a pound. To
which rulings and refusals to rule the defendant then and there
duly excepted, and prays that his exception may be allowed.
The foregoing exceptiQns presented by the defendant are
allowed."
The opinion of the Circuit Court, which accompanies the
record, and is repofted in 20 Fed. Rep. 495, proceeds upon the
ground, that, as the article in question was known commer,cially as nail-rods, and was not bought or sold as bar iron, and
wal rolled iron, it did not come within the description of "bar
iron, rolled or hammered," but came within the description of
*"rolled or hammered iron not otherwise provided for."
Although the article in the present case was in straight fiatpieces, less than one inch in width and less than three-eighths
•of an inch in thickness, yet it is distinctl y found, that it had
not been bought or sold as "bar iron," and was not known in
a commercial sense as "bar iron." Therefore, although, in oiie
sense, it might properly have been called "iron in bars," it was
not "bar iron," although it was rolled iron. It was known in
commerce as "nail-rods;" and it is found that, in a commercial
sense, nail-rods were not known as "bar iron." The article,
therefore, was a description of rolled iron "not otherwise provided for." The commercial understanding as to the description of the article by Congress must prevail. Arthur y. _2orrison, 96 U. S. 108; Arthur v. Iaey,96 U. S. 112.
The judgment of the CiUrouit Court is affirmed

