OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

free to surrender the securities to the receiver. This will not
affect the judgments that the creditors have recovered, any
further than to limit their operation, so far as the rc ceiver and
the sureties on the attachnient bonds are concerned, to the
adjudication of the debts as claims entitled to dividends from
the proceeds of the assets of the bank. To that extent, certainly, the court had jurisdiction in each of the suits after the
insolvency; but as the attachments were void the judgments
are inoperative as a basis of recovery upon the bonds.
The judgment in each of the suits at law is affirmed, but the
decree in the suit in equity is reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to enter a decree setting aside
and annulling the bonds which were given to dissolve the
attachments, and enjoining each and all of the creditors,
and those claiming under them, from _roceeding in any
mannuerto enforce the same against the sureties, and directing the sureties to surrender to the receiver the securities
they holdfor their indemnity.

SHOECRAFT v. BLOXHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE INORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued and Submitted February 2,1888.-

Decided February 20, 1888.

A suit to enforce the performance of a contract is a suit to recover the
contents of a chose in action, within the meaning of ยง 629 of the
Revised Statutes.
A deed of trust, in the nature of a mortgage, set out in full a contract
between the mortgagor and certain parties for the conveyance of several
parcels of land to him, and then conveyed to the mortgagee all the right,
title, and interest which he, the mortgagor, had, or might thereafter
acquire, "in and to" the lands embraced by the contract: Held, that the
conveyance was in legal effect an assignment of the contract; and that
the assignee could not maintain a suit for the enforcement of this contract in the Circuit Court of the United States, under ยง 629 of the
Revised Statutes, if the assignor could not have maintained the suit
In such Circuit Court if no assignment had been made.

SHOECRAFT v. BLOXHAM.
Statement of the Case.

Tur, case was stated by the court as follows:
This is a suit in equity to enforce the performance of a cdntract, made between the Trustees of the Internal Improvement
Fund of the State of Florida and the Jacksonville, Pensacola
and Mobile Railroad Company, for the conveyance of certain
lands in Florida, and to determine the rights of various parties
claiming interests in them.
As alleged in the bill, by the act of Congress of September
28, 1850, to enable the State of Arkansas and other States to
reclaim the swamp lands within their limits, 9 Stat. 519, there,
was granted to the State of Florida the whole of the swamp
and overflowed lands within it, made unfit thereby for cultivation, which were at the date of the act unsold; and this
grant was accepted by the State. "By an act of the Legislxture, approved Januafy 6, 1855, all of these lands .and "the
proceeds thereof were set apart as a separate fund, called the
Internal Improvement Fund of the State, to be applied as
there provided. To ensure the proper application of the fund
to the purposes declared, the lands and the charge of the
proceeds arising from their sale were vested in five trustees,
namely, the Governor, the Comptroller of Public Acconts,
the State Treasurer, the. Attorney General, and the Register
of Public Lands of the State, and their successors in office, in
trust, with power to sell the lands, to receive payment thereof,
and to make such disposition of the proceeds as the act directed,
and, among other things, to pay the interest as it should
become due on the bonds to be issued by different railroad
companies under the authority of the act; and also to receive
semiannually one-half of one per cent of the bonds of each
separate line of railroad, and invest the same in certain specifled securities. The act provided that all bonds issued under
its provisions by any railroad compauy should be a first mortgage on its'road-bed, iron, equipment, workshops, depots, and
franchises, and that upon its failure to provide the interest on
the bonds issued by it, and the sum of one per cent, per annum
as a sinking fund, the trustees should take possession of its
road and property and sell the samei and apply the proceeds

OCTOBER TERI

1887.

Statement of, be Case.

to the purchase and cancellation of the outstanding bonds on
which default was thus made.
The provisions of the act were accepted by various railroad
companies, namely, the Florida, Atlantic and Gulf Central
Railroad Company, the Tallahassee Railroad Company, and
the Florida, Railroad Company, each of which was, prior to
1860, a corporation created under the laws of the State, and
had issued its bonds, and prior to the year 1867, had made
default in the payment of the interest on them and of the one
per cent required for the sinking fund. These bonds, or at
least the interest thereon in default, and the one per cent,were a first lien upon all the swamp lands granted to the
State. The amount of the bonds, interest, and percentage in
default reached nearly three millions of dollars. In 1868 and
1869 the trustees seized each of these roads and sold them to
various purchasers for sums which in the aggregate were less
by one million and a half of dollars than the amount in default,
leaving the Internal Improvement Fund and the lands liable
for the deficiency.
Among the holders of railroad bonds issued was one Francis
Vose, a citizen of New York, who held bonds of the Florida
Railroad Company, and he brought a suit in equity in the
Uinited States Circuit Court for the Northern District of Florida against the trustees of the Improvement Fund, praying
that the amount due him .mightbe collected and enforced out
of the lands convey-ed to the trustees. On December 6, 1870,
an injunction was issued in that suit, restraining the trustees
from selling or disposing of the lands otherwise than in accordance with the provisioAs of the act of 1855. At this time the
Improvement Fund and the lands were encumbered for a very
large amount; and the trustees, being desirous to arrange for
the payment of the debts, including the claim of Vose, and to
aid in the construction of a certain railroad, on May 81, 1871,
eiftered into an agreement with the Jacksonville, Pensacola
and Mobile Railroad Company, by which they were to convey
to it all the lands held or to be held by them in trust under
the act of 1855, with some few exceptions not necessary to
be mentioned; and the railroad company, in consideration

SHOECRAFT v.

BLOXHAM.

Statement of the Case.

thereof, was to satisfy and pay all existing liabilities in the
nature of liens on the Internal Improvement fund, to.cancel
and surrender the evidences thereof to the trustees, to .pay ihe
sum of 8100,000 for the benefit of the fund, and to construct
a certain railroad from Jacksonville to Mobile, by extending
the road from Quincy, its then terminus, and complete it
within five years. The trustees were to execute deeds of all of
said lands and to deliver the same to the railroad company as
soon as the injunction in the Vose case should be dissolved
or modified. This contract was, in December, 1871,submitted
to the court by Vose and the trustees for its consideration and
approval, and the court thereupon decreed substantially as
follows:
That there was due Vose by the trustees the sum of $211,885.45 upon the past due coupons of the bonds held by him,
and also certain other sums, making in the aggregate $273,000;
that the articles of,-ggreement between the trustees and the
railroad company be confirmed and made valid upon the following conditions: that the trustees- should forthwith, upon
the payment by the railroad company of the sum of $100,000
as provided, execute and deliver to one Littlefield, president
of the company,, or such person or corporation as he should
designate, a deed of conveyance of a certain 100,000 acres of
land, and also execute and deliver deeds of conveyance to the
Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Railroad Company of all
the lands embraced in said articles of agreement, not in the
*decree otherwise provided for; which deeds were to be deposited with Brown Brothers and Company of New York City,
and to be delivered by such firm to the railroad company
upon the payment by it to said Vose of his claim upon the
Internal Improvement Fund, dpon such terms as should be
arranged between him and the company, within ten months
from the date of the decree.
Various transactions were had between the Jacksonville,
Pensacola and Mobile Railroad Company and other parties
subsequently to this contract, and, among others, it executed
and delivered to the Securty Construction and Trust Company
eight hundred of its bonds, for the suin of $10,000 each, run-

-OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

ning to the complainant Matthew J. Shoecraft or bearer, and
payable January 1, 1903, with interest annually at the rate of
six per cent per annum, and, in order to secure the payment
of the principal and interest of said bonds, executed to hirp
a.trust deed or mortgage, "bearing date January 23d, 1883,
upon the property and franchises of the railroad company and
upon the right, title and interest which the company had
or might thereafter acquire in and to the land granted or
agreed to be granted by the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund by the contract of May 31, 18'1. The trust thus
created was accepted by Shoecraft, and to compel a performance of the contract of May 31, 1871, by the execution of a
conveyance of the lands held by the trustees, and to determine
the rights of others claiming interest in the land, this suit is
brought.
.Mr.
C. K..Davis for appellant submitted on his brief.
Afr. 1? . Erwin (with whom was 21[r. IF. S. Chisiwrm
on the brief) for the South Florida Railroad Company, the
Florida Southern Railway Company, the Sanford and Indian
River Railway Company, the Live Oak and Rowland's Bluff
Railroad Company, the Live Oak, Tampa and Charlotte iHarbor Railway Company, the East 'Florida Railroad Company,
and the Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West RAilway Company, appellees.
MI . JusTIoE FiELD, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The conveyance to the company of the lands held by the trustees pursuant to the cQintract between those parties is essential
to the value of the security offered for the bonds executed to the
Security Construction and Trust Company, and to .enable the
co'mplainant to dischargethe trust accepted by him. But the
contract being between citizens of the State of Florida, a suit
upon it could not be maintained by the railroad company 'in
the Circuit Court of the United States3 and therefore could not
be maintained by its assignee, the complainant. Section 629

SHOECRAFT v. BLOXIIAM.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Revised Statutes, which was in force when the suit was
commenced, declares that "no Circuit Court shall have cognizance of Iny suit to recover the contents of any promissory
note or other cawse in action in favor of an assignee, unless a
suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases
of foreign" bills of exchange." The terms udsed, "the contents
of any promissory note or other chose in action," were designed
to embrace the rights the instrument conferred which were
capable of enforcement by suit. They were not happily chosen
to convey thismeaning, but they. have received a construction
substantially to that purport in repeated decisions of this court.
They weke so construed in the recent case of Corbin v. County
of Black Hawk, 105 U. S. 659, where the subject is fully considered, and the decisions cited. There a suit brought to enforce
the specific perforimance of a contract was held to be a suit to r3cover the contents of a chose in action, and therefore not maintainable, under the statute in question, in the Circuit Court of
the United States, by an assignee, if it could not have been
prosecuted there by the assignors had no assignment been made.
It is contended, however, that the complainant is not the
assignee of the contract of May 31, 1871, but a mortgagee in
trust of the lands mentioned therein, and can therefore maintain the suit by reason of his citizenship in New York. We
cannot assent to this position. It is true the complainant is
a mortagee in trust of such interest as the mortgagor had in
the lands, but he brings the suit, not to foreclose the mortgage,
but as one having a beneficial interest in the contract, and consequently a right to enforce it. The object of the suit is to perfect the title to .thelarids mortgaged by enforcing the performance of the contract. The deed of trust sets out in full the
contract, and conveys all the right, title and interest which he
railroad company had or might thereafter acquire in and to
the lands granted by the trustees by their contract of May 31,
1871. This conveyance of all right, title and interest "in and
to" the lands granted, or agreed to be granted, by the contract
of sale, carried with it to the complainant an interest in the
contract-so far as such lands were concerned, that is, the right

736

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to perfect the title to the lands by enforcement of the contract.
It was in legal effect the assignment of the contract itself. If
he cannot enforce that contract and thus secure the title to
the company, the-deed of trust, so far as the lands covered by
the contract are concerned, is worthless as a security. If he
has no interest in the contract he has no standing in court to
ask its enforcement, and, if he is to be regarded as an assignee
of the contract under the deed of trust, he is disabred from
maintaining the suit in the Circuit Court by ยง,629 of the Revised Statutes. He is subject to the same disability in that
respect as his assignor.
Decree afmed

