UNITED STATES v. BOND.
Syllabus.

Assuming this to be so, the question is presented upon the
whole testimony as offered, taken in connection with the documents read, whether the plaintiffs had thereby presented such
a case as, in the absence of all other testimony, would have
justified a verdict in their favor. The evidence on the subject
contained in the depositions did not tend to establish any possession of the premises in dispute later than the year 1835.
At that time Garcia himself had died, his daughter had married in the year 1833, and from the year 1835 the mother and
daughter, with the husband of the latter, had left Texas and
gone into Mexico, where they have ever after remained. There
is no evidence whatever that after the year 1835 they exercised any dominion or control over this property in San Antonio, or were in possession of it through tenants or agents.
The proof, therefore, does not satisfy the rule as stated by the
authorities cited, for, although it shows that the possession on
the part of the plaintiffs had been originally acquired undercolor of title, it does not show that that possession had been
continuous and had not been abandoned. On the contrary, so
far as the proof extends, it leaves a period of time, from 1835
to 1843, when, it is alleged in the petition, that the defendants,
or those under whom they claim title, entered into possession,
entirely unaccounted for, and during which, so far as the
plaintiffs are concerned, the possession appears to have been
vacant and abandoned. It follows, therefore, that the court
committed no error in rejecting the offered proof of a prior
peaceable possession under color of title. The judgment is
accordingly
______Afirned.

UNITED STATES v. BOND.
APPEA-L FROM THE COURT OF OLAThXS.
Submitted January9, 1888.-Decided January 23, 1888.

Claimant was a private in the Marine Corps, and one of the marines who
composed the organization known as the Marine Band. He performed
on the Capitol grounds and on the President's grounds under proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
order. HYeld, that he was entitled to the additional pay provided for by
Rev. Stat. ยง 1613.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment against the United
States in the Court of Claims.
-Yr. Attorney General and M#. Felix Brannigan for appellant.
-Mr. James F..Padgettfor appellee.
MR. JusncFI

MILLFR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
awarding t6 John Bond, the appellee, the sum of.V72.27.
The following facts were found by that court, upon which
this judgment wa, rendered in favor of the claimant, and from
which the present appea is taken:
"Claimant enlisted in the United States Marine Corps at
the Marine Barracks, Washington, D. C., October 29, 1879, as
a private,, was assignedto duty with the Marine Band at the
time of his enlistment, and remained and performed duty with
the band as a private from tfiat time until May 1, 1881, when
he was rated as a musician. Prior to this last mentioned date
he was at no time rated as a musician, although playing in the
band.
"Between the date of enlistment and May 1, 1881, the organization known as the, Marine Band performed, under proper
order, on the Capitol grounds and on the President's grounds.
Prior to May 1, 1881, claimant received no additional compensation for such service."
Section 1613 of the Revised Statutes reads as follows:
"The marines who compose the corps of musicians known
as the 'Marine Band' shall be entitled to receive at the rate
of four dollars a month each in addition to their pay as noncommissioned officers; .musicians, or privates of the Marine
Corps, so long as they shall perform, by order of the Secretary
of the Navy or other superior officer, on the Capitol grounds
or the Presiddnt's -grounds."

UNITED STATES v. MOUAT.
Statement of the Case.

In the opinion of the Court of Claims it is said that-_
"The claimant was a ' private of the Marine Corps.' He was
one of 'the marines who composed the organization known
as the 'Marine Band.' He performed on the Capitol grounds
and on the President's grounds, under proper order, and, thus
falling withfn the phraseology of the statute, he should have
received the additional pay."
In this statement we entirely concur, and see no reason to
disturb the judgment of thd court, which is accordingly

Afflrned-

UNITED STATES v. MOUAT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
gubmitted December 14,1887. -Decided

January 23, 1888.

A paymaster's clerk, appointed by a paymaster in the navy with the approval of the Secretary of the Navy, is not an officer of the navy within
the meaning of the act of June 30, 1876, 19 Stat. 65, c. 159, so as to be
entitled to the benefit of the mileage allowed by that act,

Tim petition of the defendant in error in the Court of Claims
was as follows:
"The claimant, David, Mouat, respectfully showeth as follows:
"I. That on the 16th day of November, 1885, he was appointed a paymaster's clerk in the United States Navy, on
board the United States receiving ship ' Vermont,' subject tb the
laws and regulations governing the United States Navy. That
the said appointment was approved by Capt. A. P. Cooke,
commanding the 'Vermont,' and by D. B. Harmony, Acting
Secretary of the Navy. That on the 19th day of November,
1885, he accepted by letter said appointment, aad on the same
day took an oath to comply with and be obedient to such laws,
regulations, and discipline of the navy as were then in force,
or that might be enacted by Congress, or established by other
competent authority. Copies of the said appointment, the

