UNITED STATES v. JUNG AH LUNG.
Syllabus.

been in his possession. .We, however, think that the word
"found" means that there must be a time before the cause .of
action accrues at which they are found in the possession of the
defendant. If, howev6r, plaintiffs' view of the subject were
tenable, the fact still remains that the only possession .r.
Thornton evdr had of these prints was the possession of Shaxpless & Sons, holding them merely as their employ6, subject
always to their order and control, and never with any claim
of right in him to control them except in their s.eryice..
The instructions of the court to the jury, therefore, on this
subject, were erroneous, and the testimony did not justify the
charge. For this reason
The judgment of the Circut Court is Teveried, and the case
remand d with imtsrution to set aside the verdiot, and
for further_proeedingsin accordame with this opinion.

UNITED. STATES v. JU-N'G AH LU'NG.
APPE'AL FROM THE CIMOUrT COUN T OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January9,1888.-Decided February 13, 1888.

A Chinese laborer, who resided in the United States on November 17th, 1880,
continued to reside there till October 24th, 1193, when he left San Francisco for China, taking with him a certificawe of identification issued to
him by the collector of that port, in the form required by the 4th section
of the act of Mlay 6, 1882, c. 126, 22 Stat. 58, which was stolen from
him in China, and remained outstanding and uncancelled.
Returning
from China to San Francisco by a vessel, he was not allowed by the
collector to land, for want of the certificate, and was detained in custody
in the port, by the master of the vessel, by direction of the customs
authorities. On a writ of habeas corpus, issued by the District Court of
the United States, it appeared that he corresponded, in all respects, with
the description contained in the registration books of the custom-house
of the Plerson to whom the certificate was issued, He was discharged
from custody, and the order of discharge was affirmed by the Circuit
Court.
On appeal to this court, by the United States, Held:

622

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

(1) He was in custody under or by color of the authority of the United
States, and the District Court had jurisdiction to issue the writ;
(2) The jurisdiction of the court was not affected by the fact that the
collector had passed on the question of allowing the person to
land, or by the fact that the treaty provides for diplomatic action
in a case of hardship;
(3) The case of the petitioner was not to be adjudicated under the provisions of the act of July 5, 1884, c. 220, 23 Stat. 115, where they
differed from those of the act of 1882.
(4) In view of the provisions df § 4 of the act of 1882, in regard to a
Chinese laborer arriving by sea, as distinguished from those of
§ 12 of the same act in regard to one arriving by land, the District
Court was authorized to receive the evidence it did, in regard to
the identity of the petitioner, and, on the facts it found, to discharge him from custody.

Tins was a petition for a writ of habeas caqus. The court
below ordered the discharge of the prisoner, from which judgment the United States. appealed. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.
_Mr. Attorney Generalfor appellant.
-M. Thomas D. Riordan for appellee.
B TCrc'FoRiD delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JusTicEi

This is an appeal by the United States from a judgment of
the Circuit Couft of the'United States for the District of California, affirming the judgment of the District Court of that
district, in a case of habeas corpus, which ordered the discharge fiom custody of the person in whose behalf the writ,
was sued out.
On the 28th of September, 1885, a petition was presented to
the District Court, alleging that Jung Ah Lung, a subject of
the Emperor:of China, was unlawfully restrained of his liberty
by the master of a steamship in the port of San Francisco, he
having arrived in that vessel and not being allowed to land
because it was contended that it was unlawful for him to do
so under the provisions of the acts of Congress on that subject.
On the filing of the petition, a writ of habeas corus was

UNITED STATES o. JUNG All LUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

issued by the District Court to the master of the vessel, commanding him to prbduce the body of Jung Al Lung before
the court. This 'vas done, and the master made return that
he held Jung Al Lung in his custody "by direction of the customs authoriiies of the port of San Francisco, California, under
the provisions of the Chinese Restriction Act."
On the 12th of October, 1885, by leave of the court, the
United States Attorney for the district was allowed to file, on
behalf of the United States, a special intervention and plea to
the jurisdiction of the court. Two questions were raised by it:
(1) that Jung Al Lung was not so restrained of his liberty as to
be entitled to the benefit of a writ of habeas corpu .(2) that the
collector of the port had passed judgment on the matters of law
and fact involved, and the same were i'es ajudicat. To this
intervention Jung Ah Lung demurred, and the demurrer was
sustained. The" opinion of the court is reported in 25 Fed.
Rep. 141. It considered the question of jurisdiction, and held
that (1) the case was a proper one for the issuing of a writ of
ha eas corpus; (2) the collector was not clothed with exclusive
jurisdiction in the prenises. It gave' leave to the District
Attorney to file an intervention to the merits, which he did,
setting forth that Jung Ah Lung was lawfully refused permission to land in the United States, in compliance with the provisions of acts of Congress, because he failed to produce to the
collector the certificate of identification provided for by those
acts; and that he was not entitled to land in the United States.
The issue thus joined was tried by the court.
There is a bill of exceptions, which states that the counsel
for Jung Ah Lung offered to prove that he was a Chinese
laborer, residing in the United $tates on November 11, 1880,
the date of the last treaty between the United States and the
Emperor of China; that he resided in the United States continuously until October 24, 1883, when, being about to return
to China, he received from the collector of San Francisco a
certificate enabling him to reenter the United States, in conformity with the act of Congress of May 6, 1882, c. 126, 22
Stat: 58 ; that he departed for China, taking such certificate
with him; that he remained in China until he embarked for

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion' of the Court.

San Francisco on August 25, 1885; that, prior thereto, and in
June, 1885, he was deprived of said certificate by its being
taken from him by robbery, by pirates, in China; that the
books in the registration office of the custom-house in San
Fraiicisco showed that the certificate was issued to him; that
no one had presented it or entered upon it, and it was uncancelled; and that he conformed in every particular with the
description kept in such registration office of the person to
whom such certificate was issued. The District Attorney
objected to the introduction of this testimony, as incompetent,
on the ground that the statute provided that the certificate
should be the only evidence permissible to establish the right
of a Chinese laborer to reenter the United States, andthat no
secondary evidence of the loss and contents of the certificate
could be received. The objection was overruled by the court,
the District Attorney excepted to the ruling, and the evidence
was received.
The District Court filed the following findings:
"Counsel for applicant proceeded to introduce testimony by
which it appeared to the satisfaction of this court, and this
court' so"finds : That Jung Ah Lung is a Chinese laborer, being
one of the proprietors of a laundry situated at Noe 1391 Second
Avenue, New York City; that he was a resident of the United
States on the 1th day of November, A.D. 1880, the date of
the last treaty between the United States and the Empire of
China, and that he resided continuously in the United States
until on or about the 24th day of October, A.D. 1883, when
he ' led foi China on the steamer Rio de Janeiro; that,
beforeailing for China; he duly applied for and received from
the -collector of customs for the. district of San Francisco 3
certificate of identification, stating his name, age, occupatioft,
last place of residence, physical marks and peculiarities, and
all facts necessary for his identification in conformity to the
act of Congress entitled 'An act to execute certai4 treaty
stipulations relating to Chinese,' approved May 6th 1882;
,that he departed on said steamer for China, having in his possession, and taking away with him, the said certificate; that,
during the month of June, A.D. 1885, while on a voyage from

UNITED STATES v. JUNG AH LUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

his native village to the city of Canton, China, the junk upon
which he was a passenger was attacked by pirates in.waters
notoriously infested with piratical craft, who deprived, said
Jung Ah Lung of said certificate entitling said applicant to
regnter the United States; that no one has presented said
certificate at this port, and said certificate is outstanding and
remains uncancelled on the books of the custom-house for the
-district of San Francisco; that the applicant corresponds, in
all respects, to the description, contained in the registration
books of the custom-house, of the person to whom the said
certificate was issued, and that no doubt can be entertained
that the applicant is the person to whom the said certificate was
issued and delivered; that it was not suggested by the District
Attorney, nor contended by him, that the proof, if admissible,
failed, to establish, in -the most satisfactory manner, the facts
herein found by the court, and he claimed that the applicant
should be remanded solely onthe ground that the testimony
offered by the applicant could not, under the provisions of the
a~ts of Congress known as the restriction acts, be received in
evidence. Whereupon, the court, being of, opinion that the
said proofs were admissible and fully established the facts as
claimed by the applicant, ordered that he be discharged."
The District Attorney filed the following exceptions to the
findings:
"1st. That the court had no authority or jurisdiction to
issue a writ in this case, as the applicant was not restrained of
his liberty within the true intent and meaning of the act of
Congress known as the habeas corus act.
"2d. That the court, on the return 'of said writ of habeas
corpus, had'no authority or jurisdi'ction to inquire into and
decide upon the lawfulness of said alleged restraint, for the
reason that the same had been decided to be lawful by the
collector of the port of San Francisco, or his deputy.
"3d. For the reason hereinbefore set forth, the said testimonyas to the issuance, loss, and contents of the certificate
mentioned aforesaid, and the evidence of the fact that the
applicant is the identical person to whom said certificate was
issued, is inadmissible under the provisions of the said restricVOL. cxx--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

tion acts, and that the applicant, having failed to produce his
certificate, is not now entitled to enter the United States."
On,.the 5th of November, 1885, the District Court entered a
judgment discharging Jung Ah Lung from custody. The
United States appealed to the Circuit Court from the judgment, and from the rulings objected to by the United States
on the trial, and especially from the order sustaining the demurrer to he special intervention and plea to the jurisdiction,
and from the rulings admitting other testimony than the certificate to establish the right of Jung Ah Lung to come into
the United States. The Circuit-Court affirmed the judgment, as before stated, and from its judgment this appeal is
*taken.
It is contended for the United States that there was no
jurisdiction in the District Court to issue the writ in the first
instance, because the party was not restrained of his liberty
iwithin the meaning of the habeazs J)'us statute., It is urged
that the only restraint of the party was that he was not permitted to enter the United States. But we are of opinion that
the case was a proper one for the issuing of the writ. The
party was in custody. The. ret-irn of the master was that he
held him in custody by direction of the customs authorities of
the port, under the provision.s of the Chinese Restriction Act.
That was an act of Congress. He was, therefore, in custody
under or by color, of the authority of the United States, within
the meaning of § 758 of the Revised Statutes. He was so
held in custody on board of a vessel within the city and county
of San Francisco. The case was one falling within the provisions of chapter 13 of Title 13 of the Revised Statutes.
"it' is also urged, that, if the right to issue the writ existed,
otherwise, under-the general provisions of the Revised Statutes, that right was taken away by the Chinese Restriction
Act, which regulated the entire subject matter, and was necessarily exclusive. The act of May-6, 1882, c. 126, 22 Stat. 58,
entitled "An act to execute certain treaty stipulations relating
to Cinese,'! as originally passed, and as amended by the act
of July 5, 1884, c. 220, 23 Stat.'115, isset forth in the margin,
the words in italics being introduced by the act of 1884, while

'UNITED STATES v. JUNG All LUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

those in brackets were in the act of 1882, and were stricken
out by the act of 1884.1
1A

ACT TO EXECUTE CERTAIDT TREATY STIPULATXIONS REMATING TO CHI"FSE,.,

APrROVED MIAY GTH, 1882, AS AMIENDED JULY 5TH, 1884.

Whereas in the opinion of the Government of the United States the coming of Chinese laborers to this country endangers the good order of certain
localities within the territory thereof; Therefore:
Be it enacted by the Senate and House q" Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled. That from and after the [expiration of ninety days next after the] passage of this act, aid until the expiration of ten years next after the passage of this act, the coming of Chinese
laborers to the United States be, and the same is hereby, suspended; and
during such suspension it shall not be lawful for any Chinese laborer to.
come from any foreign port or place, or, having so come [after the expiration of said ninety days,] to remain within the United States.
SEC. 2. That the master of any vessel who shall knowingly bring within
the United States on such vessel and land, or attempt to land, or permit to
be landed, any Chinese laborer, from any foreign port' r place, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars for each and every
such Chinese laborer so brought, and may [be also] also be imprisoned for
a term not exceeding one year.
SEC. 3. That the two foregoing sections shall not apply to Chinese labor-"
ers who were in the United States on the seventeenth day of November,
eighteen hundred and eighty, or who shall have come into the same beforethe expiration of ninety days next after the passage of the act to which this
act is amendatory,nor shiall said sections apply to Chinese laborers, [and] who
shall produce to such master before going on- board such vessel, and shall
produce to the collector of the port in the U.nited States at which such vessel shall arrive, the evidence hereinafter in this act required of his being
one of the laborers in this section mentioned; nor' shall the two foregoing
sections apply to the cse of any master whose vessel, being bound to a port
not within the United States, shall come Nfithin the jurisdiction of the
United States by reason of being in distress or in stress of weather, or
touching at any port of the United States on its voyage to any foreign port
or place: Provided, That all Chinese laborers brought on such vessel shall
not be permitted to land except in case qf absolute necessity, and must depart
with the vessel ou leaving port.
SEC. 4. That for the purpose of properly identifying Chinese laborers
who were in the United States on the'seventeenth day of November, eighteen hundred and eighty, or who shall have come into the same before the
expiration of ninety days next after the passage of the act to which this act
is amendatory, and in order to furnish then with the proper evidence of
their right to go from and come to the United States, [of their free will and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

We see nothing dn these acts which in any manner affects
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States to issue a
accord,] as provided by the said act and the treaty between the United States
and China dated November seventeenth, eighteen hundred and eighty, the
collector of customs of the district' from which any such Chinese laborer
shall depart from the United States shall, in perso1.or -by deputy, go on
board each vessel having on board any such Chines6 laborei and cleared or
abeut to sail from his. district for a f6reign port, and on such vessel make
a list of all such Chinese laborers, which shall be entered in registry-books
to be kept for that purpose, in which shall be stated the individual,family,
and tribal name in full, the age, occupation, when and where followed, last
place of residence, physical marks or peculiarities, and all facts necessary
for the identification of each of such Chinese laborers, which books shall be
safely kept in the, custom-house; and every such Chinese labQrer so departing from the United States shall be entitled to, and shall recoive, free of
any charge or cost upon application therefor, from the collector, o; his
deputy, in the name of said collector, and attested by said collector's seal of
office, at the time such list is taken, a certificate, signed by the collector or
his deputy and attested by his seal of office, in such form as the Secretary
of the Treasury shall prescribe, which certificate, shall contain a statemeht
of the individual,family, and tribal name in full, age, occupation, when and
where followed, [last place of residence, personal description and facts of
identification] of the Chinese laborer to whom the certificate is issued, corresponding with the said list and registry in all particulars. Ift case any
Chinese laborer, after having received such certificate, shall leave such vessel before her departure he shall deliver his certificate to the master of the
vessel, and if such Chinese laborer shall fail-to return to such vessel before
her departure from port the certificate shall be delivereff by the mhster to
the collector of customs for cancellation. The certificate herein provided
for shall entitle the Chinese laborerto whom the same is issued to retuin to
and reEnter the United States upon producing and delivering the same to
the collector of customs of the district at which such Chinese laborer shall
seek tQ reenter; and said certificate shall be the only etiddnce permissible to
establish his right of reEntry; and up6n [delivery] delivering-of such certificate by such Chinese laborer to the collector of customs at the tim of reentry in the United States, said collector shall cause the same to be filed in
the custom-house and duly cancelled.
SEc. 5. That any Chinese laborer mentioned in section four of this act
being in the United States, and desiring to depart from the United States
by land, shall hay - the right to demand and receive, free of charge or cost,
a certificate of identification similar to that provided for in section four of
this act to be issued to such Chinese' laborers as may desire to leave the
United States by water; and it is hereby-made the duty of the collector of
customs of the district next adjoining the foreign country to which said
Chinese laborer desires to go to issue such certificate, free of charge or cost,
upon application by such Chnege laborer, and to enter the same upon regis-

UNITED STATES v. JUNG Al

LUNG.

Opinion of the C.curt.

writ of habeas cwpus. On the contrary, the implication of
§ 12 is strongly in favor of the view that the jurisdiction of
try-books t6 be kept by him for the purpose, as provided for in section four
of this act.
SEC. 6. That in order to the faithful execution of [articles one and two
of the treaty in] the provisions of this act [before mentioned,] every Chinese.
person, other than a laborer, who may be entitled by said treaty [and] or
this act to come within the United States, and who shall be about to come
to the United States, shall obtain the permission of and be identified as so
entitled by the Chinese Government, or of such other foreign government of.
which at the time such Chinese person shall be a subject, in each case, [such
identity] to be evidenced by a certificate issued [under the authority of said]
by such governnent, whichcertificate shall be in the English language, [or
(if not in the English language) accompanied by a translation into English,
stating suck right to come] and shall show such permission, with the name of
the vermtted person in his or her propersignature, and which certificate.shall.
-

-

state'the individual,family, and tribal name in full, title, or official rank, if
any,the age, hibight, and all physical peculiarities, former and present occupation or profession, when and where and how long pursued, and place of
residence [in China] of the person to Whom the certificate is issued and
that such person is entitled [conformably to the treaty in] by this act [mentioned] to come within the United States. If the person so applying for a
certificate shall be a merchant,said certificate shall,in addition to above requirements, state the nature,character,and estimated value of the business carried-on
by him prior to and at the time of his applicationas aforesaid: rovided, That
nothing in thig act nor in said treaty shall be construed as embracing within the
meaning of the word " merchant," hucksters,peddlers, or those engaged in taking, drying, or otherwisepreserving shell or other fish for home consumption or
exportation. If the ertificate be soughtfor the purpose of travel for curiosity,
it shall also state whether the applicant irdends to pass th ough or travel within
the United States, together with his financial standing in the countryfrom which
such certificate is desired. The crtificateprovidedfor in this actdand the identity of the person named therein shall, before such person goes on board any
vessel to proceed to the United States, be visid by the indorsement of the diplomatic representativesof the United States in the foreign country from which
said certificate issues, or of the consularrepresentative of the United States at
the port orplace from which the person named in the certificate is about to
depart; and such diplomatic representative or consular representative whose
indorsement is so required is-hereby empowered, and it shall be his duty, 6efore
indorsingsuch cerificate as aforesaid,to examine into -the truth of the statements set forth in said certificate; and if he shall find upon examination that
said "orany of the statements therein contained are untrue it shall be his daty to
refuse to indorse the same. Such certificate, visid as aforesaid,shall be primg.
facie evidence of the fact set forth therein, and shall be produced to the
collector of customs, [or his deputy,] of the port in the distriet in the
United States at which the person named therein shall arrive, and afterward

630

OCTOBER TERM,. 1887..
. Opinion of the Court.

the courts of the United States in the premises was not intended to be interfered with. That section provides, that
produced to the proper authorities of the United States whenever lawfully demanded, and shall be the sole evidence permissible on the part of the person so
producing the same to establish a right of entry into the United States; but said
certificate may be controverted and the facts therein stated disproved by the
United States authorities.
SEe. 7. That any person who shall knowingly and falsely alter or substitute any name for the name written in such certificate or forge any such
certificate, or knowingly utter any forged or fraudulent certificate, or falsely
personatei any person named in any such certificate, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor;' and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in a stun not
exceeding one th6usand dollars, and imprisoned in a penitentiary for a term
of not more than five years.
SEc. 8. That the master of any vessel arriving in the United States from
any foreign port or place shall, at the same time he delivers a manifest of
the cargo, and if there be no cargo, then at the time of making a report of
the entry of the- vessel pursuant to law, in addition to the other matter
required to be reported, and before landing, or permitting to land, any Chinese passengers, deliver and report to the collector of customs of the district in which such vessels shall have arrived a separate list of all Chinese
passengers taken on board his vessel at any foreign port or place, and all
such passengers on board the vessel at that time. Such list shall show the
names of such passengers (and if accredited officers of the Chinese or of any
otherforeign Government travelling on the business of that government, or
their servants, with a note of such facts) and the names and other particulars, as shown by their respective certificates; and such list shall be sworn
to by the master in the manner required by law in relation to, the manifest
of the cargo. Any [wilful] refusal or wilful neglect of any such master to
comply with the provisions of this section shall incur the same _penalties
and forfeiture as are provided for a refusal or neglect to report and deliver
a manifest of the cargo.
Src. 9. That before any Chinese passengers are landed from any such
vessel, the collector, or his deputy, shall proceed to examine such passengers, comparing the certificates -with the list and with the passengers; and
no passenger shall be allowed to land in the United States from such vessel
in violation of law.
SEC. 10. That every vessel whose master shall knowingly violate any of
the provisions of thig act shall be deemed forfeited to the United States,
and shall be liable to seizure and condemnation in any district of the
United States into which such vessel may enter or in which she may be
found.
SEc. 11. That any person who shall knowingly.bring intO, or cause to be
brought into the United States by land, or who shall [knowingly] aid or
abet the same, or aid or abet the landing in the United States from any vessel of any Chinese person not lawfully entitled to enter the United States,

UNITED STATES v. JUNG AH LUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

"any Ohinese person found uilawfully within the United
States shall be caused to'be removed therefrom to the country
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction thereof,
be fned in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and imprisoned for a
term not exceeding one year.
SEC. 12. That no Chinese person shall be permitted to enter the United
States by land without producing to the proper officer of customs the certificate in this act required of Chinese persons seeking to land from a vessel.
And any Chinese person found unlawfully within the United States shall be
caused to be removed therefrom to the country from whence he came, [by
direction of the President .of the United States,] and at the cost of the
United States, after being brought before some justice, judge, or commissioner of a court of the United State, and found to be one not lawfully
entitled to be or to remain in the United States; and in all such cases the
person who brought or aided in bringing such personto the United States shall
-be liable to the government of the United -Statesfor all necessary expenses incurred in such investigation and removal; and all peace officers of the several
States and Territoriesof the United States are hereby invested with the same
authorityas a marshal or United States marshal in reference to carrying out
the pr'visions of this act or the act of which this is amendatory, as a marshal
or deputy marshal of the United States, and shall be entitled to like compensation to be audited and paid by the same officers. And the United States shall
pay all costs and chargesfor the maintenance and return of any Chinese person
having the certificateprescribed by law as entitling such Chineseperson to come
into the United States who may not have been permitted to landfrom any vessel
6y reason of any of the provisions of this act.
SEc. 13. That this act shall not apply to diplomatic and other officers of
the Chinese, or other Governments travelling upon the business of that government, whose credentials shall be taken as equivalent to the certificate
in this act mentioned, and shall exempt them and their body and household servants from the provisions of this act as to other Chinese persons.
Sxc. 14. That hereafter no state court or court of the United States shall
admit Chinese to citizenship; and all laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.
SEC. 15. That the provisions of this act shall apply to all subjects of China
and Chinese, whether subjects of China or any other foreign Power; and the
words "Chinese laborers," wherever used in this act, shall be construed to
mean both skilled and unskilled laborers and Chinese employed in mining.
SEc. 16. That any violation of any of the provisions of this act, or of the
act of which this is amendatory, the punishment of which is not otherwise hsrein
Provided for, shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable bt. fine
not e:eceeding one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than one
year, or both such. fine and imprisonment.
SEc. 17. That nothing contained in this act shall be construed to affect any
prosecutionor otherproceeding, criminal or civil, begun under the act of which
this [is] amendatory; but such proserutionor otherproceeding, criminal or civil,
shall proceed as if this act had not been passed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

from Whence hs came

.

.

after being brought before

some justice, judge, or commissioner of a court of the United
States and found to be one not lawfully entitled to be or
remain in th. United States." So that, if it were to be claimed
.bythe United States that Jung Ah Lung, if at any time he
should be found here, was found unlawfully here, he could not
be'removed to the country from whence he came, unless he
were brought before some justice, judge, or commissioner of a
court of the United States and were judicially found to be a
person not 16wfully entitled to b.e or remain here. This being
so, the question of his title to be here can certainly be adjudicated by the proper court of the United States. upon the question of his being allowed to land.
It is also urged, that the statute confides to the collector of
the port of San Francisco the authority to pass upon the question of allowing Jung Ah Lung to land in the United States,
and provides no means of reviewing his action in. the premises;
that only executive action in enforcing the treaty and the
statutes is contemplated; and that there is -no caqe in laW or
equity, growing out of the facts, to be inquired into by a judicial tribunal.
It is true that the 9th section of the act provides, that,
before any Chinese passengers are landed from a vessel arriving in the United States from a foreign port, the collector of
customs of the district in which the vessel arrives shall proceed
to examine such passengers, comparing with the list and with
the passengers the certificates issued under the act, and that
no passenger shall be allowed to land in the United States
from such vessel in violation of law. But we regard this as
only a provision for specifying the executive officer -who is to
perform the duties prescribed, and that no inference can be
drawn from that or any other language in the acts that any
judicial cognizance which would otherwise exist is intended to
be interfered with.
It is also uiged, that the treaty itself contemplates only
executive action, for the reason that the fourth article of the
treaty 22 Stat. 827 provides that, if the legislation adopted
by the United States to carry out the treaty shall be "found

UNITED STATES v. JUNG All LUNG.
Opinion of the Court.

to work hardship upon the subjects of China, the Chinese
minister-at Washington may bring the matter to the notice of
the Secretary of State of the United States, who will consider
the subject with him." But there is nothing in this provision
which excludes judicial cognizance, or which confines the
remedy of a subject of China, in a given case of hardship, to
diplomatic action.
The remaining question is as to the effect of the non-production of the certificate. It is contended for the United States,
that the actual production by Jung Ah Lung Qf the certificate
issued to him was essential to enable him to land; that' the
statute does not provide for secondary evidence of its contents; and that it is of no consequence that he corresponds in
all respects to the description, contained in the registration
books at the custom-house, of the person to whom the certificate was issued, for the reason that the statute does not say
that such species of evidence can be resorted to.
Jung Ah Lung having departed from the United States on
the 24th of October, 1883, and having then received the certificate of identification under the act of 1882, his case is to be
governed by the provisions of that act, and not by the provisions of the act of 1881. The certificate he received contained
the matters provided for by the act of 1882, and not those provided for by the act of 1884. The registry books of the custom-house contained, in regard to him, the particulars specified
in the act of 1882, and not those specified in the act of 1884.
The provisions of the act of 1884, in the respects in which they
differ from those of the act of 1882, do not apply to him or to
his certificate; and, if he had his certificate to present to the
collector, he could not be required to present a certificate containing the additional particulars required by the amendments
made by the act of 1884 to the 4th section of the act of 1882.
The provisions of the act of 1884, so far as they relate to the
contents of the certificate to be issued, and of the certificate
to be presented to the collector by the returning Chinese
laborer arriving by a vessel, are not retrospective. Thii principle was determined in the case of Cew ._eong v. United
States, 112 U. S. 536, where it was held, that a Chinese laborer,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

who was residing in the United States at the date of the treaty
of November 17, 1880, and who departed by sea before the
passage of the act of 1882, and remained out of the United
States until after the passage of the act of 1884, was not required to produce any certificate to the collector, because otherwise his previously vested right to return would be injuriously
affected. The same principle applies to the present case, in
respect to the right of Jung Ah Lung to return without having received a certificate containing the additional particulars
required by the amendatory act of 1884.
In regard to the main question involved, § 4 of the act of
1882 provides that, for the purpose of properly identifying
Chinese laborers who Were in the United States on the 17th of
November, 1880, and in order to furnish them with the proper
evidence of their right to go from and come to the United
States of their free will and accord, as provided by the treaty,
the collector shall, on board of the departing vessel, make a list
of the Chinese laborers who are about to sail, which shall be entered in registry books to be kept for the purpose, in which shall
be stated the particulars specified by the section, and all facts
necessary for the identification of each Chinese laborer, which
books shall be safely kept in the custom-house; and that each
Chinese laborer shall receive from the collector, at the time
such list is taken, a certificate signed by the collector and
attested by his seal of office, which shall contain a statement
of the particulars before mentioned, and facts of identification
of himself, corresponding with the said list and registry in all
particulars. The section then says: "The certificate herein
provided for shall entitle the Chinese laborer to whom the
same is issued to return to and reenter the United States,
upon producing and delivering the same to the collector of
customs of the district at which such. Chinese laborer shall
seek to reenter." It does not say that such certificate shall
be the only evidence permissible to establish the right of reentry. It merely says that it shall be given for the purpoge of
properly identifying the laborer, ,nd shall be proper evidence
of his right to go from and come to the United States, and
shall entitli him to return to and reinter the United States,

UNITED STArES v. JUNG AH LUNG.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Lamar, JJ.

upon producing and delivering it to the collector of the district

at which lie shall seek to reenter. It does not say that the
Chinese laborer returnifig by a vessel shall not be permitted to
enter the 'United States without producing the certificate. In
this respect there is a marked difference between §4 and § 12 of
the same act, in regard to a Chinese person entering the United
States by land. Section 12 provides, that no Chinese person
shall be permitted to enter the United States by land without
producing the certificate mentioned in § 4 of the act. This.
distinction of language is very marked, and we -think that, in
the absence of like language in § 4, in regard to a Chinese
laborer arriving by a vessel, it was competent for the District
Court to receive the evidence which it did, in the case of a certificate claimed to have been actually lost or stolen, and that
its conclusion of law was justified by the facts which it found.
In regard to a suggestion'made that a Chinese laborer who
has lost his certificate, or from whom it has been stolen, may
seek to reenter the United States, by a vessel, at some port
other than that at which he received the certificat% and that
there would be a practical difficulty in identifying him at such
port, in the absence of the certificate, it is sufficient to say that
this is not such a case; and that there would be no difficulty
in producing in evidence the record of the custom-house of
the port of departure, or a copy of it, at any port of entry, so
as to compare the particulars stated in it with the Chinese
laborer, and thus establish his identity or want of identity.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is aflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE lIA-LAN,
and M. JusTIcE

FIELD

with whom concurred Mn. JusmOE
LAiA.,

dissenting.

MR. JusTio FIELD, MR. JUSTICE L2AmA and myself are unable to concur in the interpretation placed by the court upon
the act -of May 6, 1882, passed by Congress in execution of
the supplemental treaty with China, concluded on the 17th of
November, 1880.
By that treaty the United States were at liberty, notwithstanding the stipulations of the original treaty, to enact laws

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Lamar, JJ.

regulating, limiting, or suspending the coming of Chinese
laborers to, or their residence in, the United States; such limitation or suspension to be reasonable in its character. It
further provided that "Chinese subjects, whether proceeding
to the United States as tea6hers, students, merchants, or from
curiosity, together with their body and household servants,
and Chinese laborers who are now [November 1, 1880] in
the United States, shall be allowed to go and come of their
own free will and accord, and shall be accorded all the rights,
privileges, immunities, and exemptions which are accorded to
the citizens and subjects of the most favored nation."
The first section of the act of Mlay 6, 1882, -2 Stat. 58, c.
1A6, suspends, the coming of Chinese laborers to the United
States from and after the expiration of ninety days next after
that dayte, and until the expiration of ten years next "afterthe
passage of the act; and makes it unlawful for any Chinese
laborer tp come, or having so come after the expiration of said
ninety days, to remain in this country. The second section
makes it an offence, punishable by fine and imprisonment, for
any master of a vessel to knowingly bring any Chinese laborer
within the United States on such vessel from any foreign port
or place.
. The third section exempts from the operation of the preceding sections only such Chinese laborers as were in this
country on the 17th of November, 1880, or who shall have
come into the same before the expiration of ninety days next
after May 6, 1882, "and who shall _produce to such master
before going on board such vessel, and shall _produce to the
collector of the port in the United States, at which such vessel
shall arrive the evidence h/reinafter in this act Pegui ed of his
being one of the laborers in this section mentioned."
The fourth section provides for registry books, to be kept
by the collector of customs, in which shall be entered a list of
all Chinese laborers departing on any vessel from his district,
in which shall be stated the name, age, occupation, last place
of residence, physical marks or peculiarities, and all facts
necessary for the identification of such laborers. Each Chinese
laborer, so departing from the country, after the passage of

UNITED STATES v. JUNG AH LUNG.
Dissenting Opinion: Fiid, Haklan, Lamar, JJ.

the act of 1882, was entitled to receive, free of charge, upon
application therefor, at the time such list is taken, a certificate,
showing thd above facts, signed by the'collector or his deputy,
and attested by his seal of office, in such form as the Secretary
of tle Treasury shall prescribe. It is important to observe that
this statute expressly declares that all this was to be done "for
the purpose of properlyidentfying Chinese laorerswho were in
the United States on the seventeenth day of 3Tovember, eighteen
hundred and eighty, or who shall have come into the same
before the expiration of ninety days next after the passage of
this act, and in order to furnish them with the _proper evidence
of their right to gofrom and come to the United States of their
free will and accord, as provided by the treaty between the
United States and China, dated November seventeenth, eighteen
hundred and eighty." Further: "The certificate herein provided for shall entitle the Chinese laborer, to whom the same
is issued, to return to and reenter the. United States upon producing and deliveing the same to the collector of customs of
the district at which such Chinese laborer shall seek to reenter, and upon delivery of such certificate by such Chinese
laborer to the collector of customs at the time of reentry in
the United States, said collector shall cause the sane to be
filed in the custom-house and duly cancelled."
The fifth section made provision for a similar certificate to a
Chinese laborer of the class mentioned in the fourth section,
and who desired to depart from this country "by land," to be
given .by the collector of customs of the district next adjoining the foreign country to which such laborer desires to go.
The twelfth section provides that "no Chinese person shalZ
be permitted to enter the United States by land, without producing to the proper officer of customs the certifcats in this
act requirdd of Chinese persons seeking to land from a vessel," &G.
In view of these provisions we have been unable to reach
any other conclusion than that Congress intended, by the act
of 1882, to prohibit the return to this country of any Chinese
laborer who was here on the 17th of November, 1880, and who
thereafter left the United States, taking with him the certifi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Lamar, JJ.

cate prescribed by that act; unless he produced such certificate
at the time he souglit to reenter. - It is not disputed that such
was the intention of Cbngress with respect to Chinese persons
seeking to enter -the United States "by land." Indeed, dispute upon that plint is precluded by the express prohibition,
in the twelfth section, upon all Chinese persons being permitted
to enter this country by land "without producing to the proper
officer of customs the certificate in this act required." But is
there any ground to suppose that Congress intended to prescribe a different or a more stringent rule in relation to Chinese
laborers entering by land than that prescribed in relation to
Chinese laborers entering at one of the ports of the country?
If it be said that the registry books kept at the port of departure furnish ample evidence for the identification of Chinese
laborers, seeling to enter the country at that port, we answer,
(1) that Congress saw fit to exclude from the country all
-Chinese laborers of the class to which appellee belongs, unless
they produced to the collector the certificate issued as evidence
of theii right to reenter the United States; (2) that the rule
prescribed is, by the very terms of the statute, uniform in its
application to all Chinese laborers and to every port of the
United States. The Chinese laborer, who received a certificate
under the act of 1882, was not bound to re~nter the United
States at the port from which he sailed and at which ho'
received that certificate. He could, as we have seen, reenter
by land or at any port of the United States, "upon producing
and delivering" his certificate "to th6 collector of customs of
the district at which such Chinese laborer shall seek, to reenter." Now, suppose the petitioner, Jung Ah Lung, had
sought to reenter the United States at the port of New York.
How could he have been identified at that port as a Chinese
laborer, to whom a certificate had been issued by the collector
of customs at San Francisco? The collector of customs at
INTwYork would have been without authority to accept affidavits in support of his claim of a right to reenter. It is to
be further observed that the act of July 5, 1884, 23 Stat. 115,
c. 220, provides that section four of' the act of 1882 shall be
so amended as to read that "said certificate shall be the only

HOADLEY v, SAN FRANCISCO.
Syllabus.

evidence .permissible to establish his right of reentry." This
did not declare a new rule, but indicates, in language clearer
than that pieviously used, the intention of Congress in passing
the act of 1882.
If appellee's certificate was forcibly taken from him by a
band of pirates, while he. was ibsent, that is his misfortune.
That fact ought not to defeat what was manifestly the intention
of the legislative branch of the Government. Congreis, in the
act of 1882, said, in respect to a Chinese laborer, who was here
when the treaty of 1880 was made, and .who afterwards left
the country, that "the proper evi~lence" of his right to go and
come from the United States was the certificate he received
from the collector of customs, at the time of his departure,
and that he should be entitled t reenter "upon producing
and delivering such certificate" to the collector of customs of
the district at which lie seeks to regnter; while this court
decides that he may reenter the United States, without producing such certificate, and upon satisfactory evidence that he
once had it, but was unable to produce it. As by the very
terms of the act, a Chinese laborer, who was here on November 17, 1880, is not excepted from the provision absolutely
suspending the coming of all that class to this country for a
given number of years, unless he produces to the collector the
certificate issued to him, we cannot assent to the judgmnent of
the court.

HOADLEY'S ADMINISTRATORS v. SAN FRANCISCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted ')eeenmber 8, 1887.-Decided February 20, 1888.

'When a cause is brought here by writ of error to a state court, on the
ground that the obligation of a contract has been impaired and property
taken for public use without due compensation, in --violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, the first duty of this
court is to inquire whether the alleged contract or taking of property
exists; and the facts in this record disclose no trace of the alleged contract or the alleged taking of property.

