OCTOBER TERM, "1887.
Opinion of the Court.

fore such sale or before a deed is finally made. There is no
sufficient evidence in this case of any purpose to discriminate
against the owner of the lands in controversy, nor of any
actual injury to him by the assessment which was made upcn"
his property.
The only discrimination made was between improved and
unimproved lands, without regard to the residence of the owners and the accidental circmnstance that more improved lands
were owned by residents than by non-residents, does not show
a violation or a purpose to violate the act of Congress.
T/he judgment of the Supreme Court qf Iowaz is zfflirmed.

DREYFUS v. SEARLE.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT

OF

CALIFORNIA.

Argued December 20, 21, 1887.-Decided January 9, 1888.

The claim of letters-patent No. 48,728, granted to John Searle, July 11, 1865,
for an "improvedprocess of imparting age to wines," namely, "The introducing the heat by steam, or otherwise, to the wine itself, by means of
metallic pipes br chambers passing through the casks or vessel, substantially as set forth," is not valid for a process, because no different
effect on the wine is produced from that resulting from the old method of
applying heat to the wine, and is not valid for the apparatus, because
that had before been used in the same way for heating a liquid.

BILL N EQUITY to restrain infringement of letters-patent.

Decree for complainant. Respondent appealed.
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

.A:r. J.Rubley Ashton for appellant.
X11.A. C. Bradley for appellee.
with him on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHrFORD

Hr. F T..

ewton' was.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California, by Sophia Searle,

DREYFUS v. SEARLE.
Opinion of the Court.

as executrix of the last will and testament of John Searle, deceased, against Benjamin Dreyfus,.Emanuel Goldstein, Jacob
Frowenfeld, and John J. Weglein, copartners under the firm
name of B. Dreyfus & Co., for the infringement of letterspatent of the United States, No. 48,728, granted to John
Searle, July 11, 1865, for seventeen years from June 15, 1865,
for an "improved process of imparting age to wines." The
bill was filed December 21, 1881.
The specification and claim of the patent are in these
words:
"Be it known that I, John Searle, of the city and county'of
San Francisco, State of California, have invented a new and
improved process for imparting Iage to wines and liquors;.'
and I do hereby declare that the within is a full and exact
description of the same.
"The nature of my invention consists in providing a process for shortening the time that is now required for ripening wines and liquors to about one-half the period, without
deteriorating their flavor, by the use of steam.
"1Madeira,sherry, port, teneriffe, and other wines haye been
prepared for many years, for imparting age, through the
medium of I estufas, or large ovens, having flues by which
they are heated. These Iestufas' are filled with wines and
spirits in casks or pipes, and are kept at a proper heat until
the contents of the casks show the desired age through the
staves. By this process the heat must necessarily be very
great (say 1400), which impairs the flavor of the wine, by imparting to it the taste of the cask, and oftentimes the casks
have to be taken out and recoopered before the process can be
completed.
"By the use of my process the following advantages are
derived:
"1st. There is a great saving of time and fuel, the building and air not being heated within as by the old process.
"2d. It can be effected in casks of the largest size, thereby
insuring uniformity of quality in the wine.
"3d. The process can be carried on in any storehouse or
cellar.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"4th. There is no injury to the casks, whereas by the old
system they become damaged and require constant repairs.
"5th. The breakage and loss on the liquors is very much
reduced, which is sometimes excessive in the 'estufas,' by the
falling to pieces of the heated and dried-up casks.
"6th. No bad taste is imparted to the liquors during my
process, which is too often the case in the ' estufas,' where the
wine receives the heat through the sides of the cask.
"To enable others skilled in the art to make use of,my
improvement, I will proceed to describe my process and its
operation. I use casks or tanks (as the case may be) for holding the wine; if casks, they may be placed on end. Through
each of these casks or tanks, near the base, I pass an iron or
metallic pipe, (copper is preferable,) of about one inch, and
open at its end. These pipes connect with a main steara-pipe,
and can be closed and the steam shut off, should the heat
become too great for the wine, by means of a stop-cock
attached to each of the pipes.
" The degree of heat which I use in the operation varies
from 100 to 140'.
"The time required to perfect the operation of ripening
wine by this process is about six weeks, yet, of course, it will
be left to the knowledge and discretion of the keeper of the
cellar to determine when the ripening process is completed.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim and
desire to secure by letters-patent is, the introducing the heat
by steam, or otherwise, to the wine itself, by means of metallic
pipes or chambers passing through the casks or vessel, substantially as set forth."
The answer of the defendants denied that the invention was
new or useful, and alleged that it was in public use in San
Francisco for more than two years prior to the date of the
atpplication by Searle for the patent, by two persoi,,s named
Wieland and Voorman.
Issue being joined, proofs.were taken on both sides, and, on
the 22d of May, 1883, the Circuit Court entered an interlocutory decree, adjudging the patent to be valid, that the defendants had infringed upon it by treating and ageing vine by the

DREYFUS v. SEARLE.
Opinion of the Court.

process described and claimed in it, and ordering a reference
to a master to take and report an account of profits from the
infringement. He reported the amount of profits to have
been $3249.60. Both parties excepted to the report, but all
the exceptions were overruled, and a final decree was entered
in August, 1884, awarding a recovery to the plaintiff of
$3249.60, with interest from the date of the entry of the interlocutory decree, May 22, 1883, and costs. From this decree
the defendants have appealed to this court.
It is stated in the specification of the patent, that age had
been imparted to wines, for many years, by placing them in
casks, in estufas, or large ovens, and keeping up a proper heat
therein, on the outside of the casks, until the contents of the
casks showed the desired age. The application of artificial
heat to impart age to wines was, therefore, old. The heat
was applied to the wine from the outside. The new process.
claimed in the patent is to introduce the heat by causing
steam, or other heating medium, to pass through metallic
pipes or chambers placed on the inside of the cask, and within
the body of the wine in the cask. This is called in the patent
a' new process; but, so far as the action or effect of heat on
the wine is concerned, in respect to ripening it or imparting to
it what is called "age," or any other quality imparted to it by
heat, the effect or result is the same as that produced by im.parting the heat to the wine from the heated air, in the oldfashioned estufa or oven. It is shown by the evidence that
the application of the heat to the wine from the inside of the
cask has no different effect upon it from that of the heat as
applied by the old process, and that no chemical or other
change is produced in the wine different from that produced
by the old process.
There was no novelty in the process as a patentable process.
Whatever novelty there could have been must have consisted
wholly in the apparatus used for introducing, the heat to the
inside of the body of the wine. But it appears by the evidence that the apparatus, as a means of imparting heat from
it to, the body of the liquid inside of which it was placed, was
not new. Wieland testifies that for twenty-five years prior to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

November,.1882, he had, in conducting his business as a brewer
in San Francisco, heated water by means of a copper coil filled
with exhaust steam, placed in the water, the water being in a
closed tub containing fifty or sixty barrels, the copper pipe entering-the tub on the side, near the bottom, and forming a coil
inside, and then passing out through the top. It also appears
that a like apparatus was used in the United States, prior to
the issuing of the plaintiff's patent, for the purpose of heating
high wines by means of steam.in a copper c6il, so as to evolve
the alcoholic vapors. There was no patentable invention in
applying to the heating of wine or any other liquor, from the
inside of the cask, the apparatus which had been previously
used to heat another liquid in the same manner.
The case falls directly within the decisions of this court in
Pomace Holder Co. v. -Ferguson,119 U. S. 335, 338, and the
cases there collected, and in Thatcher Heating Co. v. Burtis,
121 U. S. 286.
There having been, therefore, nothing new as a process in
the operation or effect of the heat on the wine, and nothing
patentable in the application of the old apparatus to the heating of the wine,
The decree of the, Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case mtst be remanded to the Circuit Courtfor the Northern District of California,with a direction to dismiss the
bill.

ROBERTS v. BENJAMIN.
ERROR TO ME CIRCUIT COUMT
NORTHER"

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued December 22, 1887. - Decided January 9, 1888.

In an action at law in a Circuit Court of the United States in New York,
an order was made, referring the action to a referee "to determine the
issues therein." He filed his report finding facts and conclusions of
law, and directing that there be a money judgment for the plaintiff.
The defendant applied -to the court for a new trial on a "case and

