RICHARDS v. MACKALL.
Statement of the Case.

anything that either the contractors or Ellicott did or said.
The case comes within the rule laid down by this court in Atlantie Delaine Co. v. James, 94 U. S. 207, 214, where it was
said: "Cancelling an executed contract is an exertion of the
most extraordinary power of a court of equity. The power
ought not to be exercised except in a clear case, and never for
an alleged fraud, unless the fraud be made clearly to appear;
never for alleged false representations, unless their falsity is
certainly proved, and unless the complainant has been deceived
and injured by them."

JTe decree is affbwd.

RIOHARDS v. MACKALL.
APPRAL

FROM

THE

SUPREMFE

COURT

OF

THE

DISTRICT

'OF

COLUMBIA.
Argued December 13,1887.-Decided January 9, 18M.

When a complainant in a bill in equity has been guilty of apparent laches
in commencing his suit his bill should set forth the impediments to an
earlier prosecution, the cause of his ignorance of his rights, and when
the knowledge of them came to him; and if it appears at the hearing
that the case is liable to the objection' of laches on his part, relief will
be refused on that ground.
In this case the court holds that the complainant was guilty of laches, and
refuses relief onthat ground alone.

Tuis case is the one referred to in the last clause of the
opinion of this court in .Xackall v. Richards, 112 U. S. 369,
376.
In the year 1859, Brooke IMackall, sen., made a verbal gift
to his son, Brooke Mackall, jr., of lot 7, in square 223, in the
city of Washington; the father, at the time, promising that
he would thereafter make a formal conveyance of the property.
The son, relying upon such promise, took possession of the lot
and commenced the erection of a building thereon, at the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

southwest corner of New York Avenue and 14th Street. The
lot was of irregular shape; its line on 14th Street being about
152 feet long, and on New York Avenue about 160 feet.
The marshal of the District of Columbia advertised, in 1869,
that in virtue of three writs of fieri facia's and one writ of
venditioni eqoponas, issued from the clerk's office of the Supreme
Court of the District, he would, on a named day, sell at public
sale, for cash, "all defendant's right, title, claim, and interest
in and to part of lot 7, in square 223, in the city of Washington, D..C., beginning at the northeast corner of said square
and running thence south 44 feet; thence west to the west
end of the lot; thence in a northerly direction with the west
line thereof to the north line of said lot; thence with said
north line to the place of beginning, together with all and
singular the improvements thereon, seized and levied upon as
the property of Brooke Mackall, jr., and will be sold to satisfy
executions Nos. 3477, 3478, 4117, and 3708, in favor of
Matthew G. Emery, George H. Plant, A. & T. F. Richards,
and Owen & Wilson."
Before the sale .took place, Mackall, jr., brought a suit in
equity against said execution creditors and the marshal. lHe
stated in his bill that, although he was equitably entitled to
the whole of lot 7, under the before mentioned gift of his
father, he had not received a conveyance therefor, and consequently did not hold the legal title. Referring to the description of the property as given in the levies and in the ddvertisement of sale, he alleged that it was both an indefinite and an
impossible description, and that a sale in the mode proposed
would prejudice his rights in the remainder of the lot. He
therefore prayed that the sale be enjoined. The execution
creditors severally answered, each averring that the legal title
to the property was in Mackall, jr., in virtue of a sale, in 1862,
to one Hyde for taxes assessed upon it by the corporation of
Washington, and that Mackall, jr., as assignee of the purchaser, had received and then held a tax deed for the lot,
dated October 6, 1865.
It does not appear from the record that any motion for an
injunction was made, or that an injunction was issued, or that

RICHARDS v. MACKALL.
Statement of the Case.

any further steps were taken, in that cause, beyond the filing
of the bill ana answer. The sale under the before mentioned
executions, levies, and advertisement, occurred June 13, 1870.
The present appellant became the purchaser at the sun of
$2500, all of which, except $646.89, was required to pay judgments prior in time to that recovered by A. & T. F. Richards.
On the 7th of October, 1870, he received a deed containing,
the following description of the property conveyed: "Part of'
lot 7 in square 223, beginning at the northeast corner of'
square and running thence south 44 feet; thence viesterl to
the west end of the lot; thence in a northerly direction with
the west line thereof to the-north line of said lot; thence with
said north line to the beginning." This deed was duly r corddd February 3, 1871. Richards took possession under his
purchase, and expended large sums upon the property in order
to make it available.
On the 2d of April, 1873, Brooke 1Mfackall, sen., (his wife
uniting and relinquishing her contingent right of dower,)
made a c6nvevaice of lot 7, in square 223, to Joseph 13: Hill
in trust, to permit the grantor to hold, occupy, and enjoy the
premises, with the -rents, issues,. and profits thereof, and to
convey them to such persons, and upon such terms, as the
grantor right in writing direct, and with authority in the
latter to encumber the premises or any part thereof as he or
his heirs and assigns might direct. This deed was recorded
September 29, 1873. When it was made, Mackall, sen., knew
that his son held the tax deed of 1865; indeed, the tax
deed was made to the son by the direction or procurement of
the father.
On the 30th of January, 1874, by a deed, in which Broole
Mackall, sen., and Joseph B. Hill, individually and as trustee,
united as grantors, lot 7, with all the buildings and improvements thereon, and all the rights appertaining thereto, w,
conveyed to Leonard Mackall, in trust, to hold he same for
the use and benefit of Brooke Mackall, sen., "and subject to
his absolute control and disposal, and to sell and dispose of
the same as the said Brooke Mackall, sen., may in writing
direct and require." This deed, for some reason, wa not recorded until June 3, 1878.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

By deed of February 27, 1880, Brooke Mackall, sen., con.
veyed the same lot, including his interest in a pending claim
for mesne profits against Alfred Richards, together with all
the buildings and improvements thereon, and with all rights
in law or in equity appertaining thereto, to Brooke Mackall,
jr., his heirs and assigns forever, for their sole use and benefit.
JMfackall, sen., died :March 7, 1880.
The present suit was brought by Brooke Mackall, jr., on the
11th day of April, 1882,- nearly twelve years after iRichards'
purchase, - for the purpose of having the sale of June 13,
1870, the conveyance of October 7, 1870, and all transfers depending thereon, adjudged to be void and of no effect. The
sale arid conveyance are attacked as invalid upon the following grounds: The price paid for it was grossly inadequate;
the executions on which the sale was made were issued without authority, other previous executions not having been returned; the judgments on which the executions were issued
were personal judgments only, while the executions directed
the sale of specific property described therein; the executions
did not sufficiently describe the nature of the debtor's, interest
in the property, whether legal, equitable or otherwise, nor define its boundaries, so that it could be identified, nor conform
to the description of the property as given in the declarations;
the court in two of - the cases was without jurisdiction to
render any other than personal judgments, the proper tribunal
for the enforcement of mechanics' liens being a court of
equity; that Brooke Mackall, sen., held the legal title to the
property, and was not a party to any of the said suits; that a
sale of an equitable interest in real estate could not be made
at law, whether for the enforcement of a mechanic's lien or
otherwise; that at bhe time of the sale, Mackall, jr., had no interest in the property except that arising from a verbal promise to convey and his action thereon; that the alleged levies
and sale were made long after the return day of the writs;
that the executions were issued and delivered to D. S. Gooding,
who was then the marshal of the District of Columbia, whbreas
the advertisement, sale and conveyance purport to have been
made by Alexander Sharp, who was- marshal at the time of

RICHARDS v. MACKALL.
Opinion of the Court.

sale; that the advertisement of sale does not sufficiently describe the property, nor the nature of the interest to be sold,
or agree with the other proceedings; and that the conveyance
by the marshal does not conform to any of the proceedings
in said causes.
The court below, in special term, dismissed the bill. But
that decree was reversed in general term, the sale and conveyance by the marshal to Richards, and all transfers depending
thereon, being set aside as void and of no effect. As between
the parties to the suit, the appellee was declared to be the
owner of the property, with a right to have the legal title conveyed to him, upon his paying appellant's claim as judgment
creditor, as well as his disbursements in connection with said
premises. The ground upon which the court below, in general term, proceeded, was, that "on account of the patent, and
palpable ambiguity and uncertainty in the description of the
property, both in the advertisement and in the marshal's
deed," the sale could not be sustained. .fackall v. Richards,
3 Mackey, 271.
.Mr. Enoch Totten for appellant.
with him on the brief.

Mr. William B. Web was

Mr.if. Willoughby for appellee.
after stating the facts as above reof the court.
opinion
ported, delivered the
AIR. JusTicE, H&nx._,

Is appellee entitled to relief in a court of equity in respect
to the sale of Tune 13, 1870 ?. In Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall.
87, 95, it was said that a party who makes an appeal to the
conscience of the chancellor should "set forth in his bill
specifically what were the impediments to an earlier prosecution of his claim; how he came to be so long ignorant of his
rights, and the means used by the respondent to fraudulently
keep him in ignorance; and bow and when he first came to a
knowledge of the matters alleged in his bill; otherwise, the
chancellor may justly refuse to consider his case, on his own
showing, without inquiring whether there is a demurrer or
formal plea. of the statute of limitations in his answer." So

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

in Sllivan v. Portland,&c., Railroad Co., 94 U. S. 806, 811:
"To let in the defence that the claim is stale, and that the.
bill cannot, therefore, be supported, it is not necessary that a
foundation be laid by any averment in the answer of defendants. If the case, as it appears at the hearing, is liable to the
objection by reason of the laches of the complainants, the
court will, upon that ground, be passive and refuse relief."
In the latter case, it was said that equity would sometimes
refuse relief where a shorter time than that prescribed by the
statute had elapsed without suit. See also Hume v. Beal, 17
Wall. 336 ; X1arslb v. Whitmore, 21 Wall. 178, 184, 185; Hayward v. iNationaZ Bank, 96 U. S. 611, 617; iSpeidel v. Henrici,
120 U. S. 377, 387.
These principles, applied to the present case, lead to a reversal, upon the ground that the appellee, upon his own showing,
has been guilty of gross laches in applying for relief. When
the sale to Richards was made the appellee had in his possession a tax deed to himself conveying the legal title- to the
whole of lot 7. While he says he was advised by counsel
that that depd was of no value, and for that reason he did not
put it upon record, he fails to suggest in his pleadings any
reason why it was not sufficient to invest him with the legal
title to the premises. The evidence fairly justifies the conclusion that he was induced, by reason of his embarrassed financial condition, to keep it from record in order thereby to
confuse the title to the property, and increase the difficulties
in the way of creditors reaching it for his debts. Be that as
it may, and assuming that th6 tax deed was invalid, the appellee having gone into possession of lot 7, and improved it,
with the consent of his father, and under the latter's promise
to convey it to him, he was entitled, at any time after the sale
to Richards, to raise the identical questions now presented, as
to the invalidity of the sale and conveyance. He made, as we
have seen, an effort, before the sale, to have it stopped; but
he did not prosecute the suit brought for that purpose; and
after the sale, so far as the record shows, he took no legal
steps whatever to prevent a conveyance being made to the
purchaser or to hve the sale set aside. It is true lie alleges

RICHARDS v. MACKALL.
Opinion of the Court.

that he complained to Richards of the injustice done by the
sale, and endeavored to procure a compromise with him; that
the latter repeatedly promised to do what was righIt, and to
release his claim on the property when he was reimbursed by
rents and profits for the money he had expended; that Richards promised to render an account of his claim, but no account
was ever rendered, ekcept one so extrava!iaht that it could not
be considered; and that he has never been able to effect any
arrangement with him. The evidence does not sustain these
allegations. Appellee testifies that in August, 1873,his father
tendered to Richards the amouit of'his judgment, together
with all the expenses and costs of all kinds. But he admits
that the appellant declined to accept the money. While appellant was, perhaps, willing to surrender his purchase, shortly
after it was made, if he had been reimbursed his expenditures in connection with the property, there is no satisfactory
proof that he ever recognized the legal or equitable right
of the appellee or of any one else to deprive him of the full
benefit of that purchase. We find nothing whatever in the
record to excuse the failure of the appellee to institute, legal
proceedings, in due time, to have the sale set aside. He knew
that the appellant relied upon the sale, and upon the -faith of
it expended large sums. He knew that the premises here in
dispute were in fact levied on for his debts, and were intended
to be sold in satisfaction of those debts., But after the property has largely increased in value, and after sleeping upon
his rights for nearly twelve years, with information, during
the whole of that period, of every fact now relied upon by
him, appellee asks the aid of a court of equity to set aside the
sale and conveyance, and adjudga him to be the owner of the
property; and chiefly, because of a mistake of the officer in
not so describing the premises in the advertisement of sale
and in the conveyance, as to properly identify them. In our
judgment, he is not in a positioii to claim the interference of
a court of equity. For that reason alone, the judgmentmust
be
Reversed and the cause remanded, wita direction to dismiss
tMe bill.

