SHIELDS

i.

SCHItF.'

351

Syllabus.

omitting the wQrd "closely" in speaking\of the fitting of the
shell to the lining,) as well as the testimony of,the patentee,
proves that there was no defect or insufficiency in the original
specification, and no error, inadvertence ormistake in framing
it.
If the omission, in the claim of the reissue, after the men-,
tion of the outer cylinder and the ends, Qf the words "soldered
,tothe latter," before the words "in the manner substantially
as described," still leaves the claim to be construed and limited
by the previous description in the specification, the patentee is
no better off than if he had not tgken out a reissue.
But if the' effect of omitting the words in question is to
extend the claim to a fountain, the outer cylinder and ends of
which are fastened together in any other manner than by a.
solder of pure tin, the claim is enlarged by omitting an essential element of the patentee's invention, and the reissue is
invalid, by the settled law of this court. .Wlrhler v. Brass Co.,
10-4 U. S. 350; -Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354; Parker &
W-hpple Co. v. YFale Clock Co., 123 U. S. 87.
-Decreeaflrmed.

SHIELDS v. SMIFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THEl,TATE OF LOUISIANA.

Argued November 9, 1887. - Declded January 23,1888.
The confiscation act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, c. 195, construed in connection with :the joint resolution of the same ddy explanatory of it, 12
Stat. 627, makes no disposition of the confiscated property after the
death of th" owner, but leaves it to devolve to his heirs according to the
lez rei sitz, and those heird lake qua heirs, and not 'by donation from
.the government.
A mortgagee, in Louisiana, under an act containing the pact de non alienanao,
can proceed against the mortgagor after the latter's expropriation
through confiscation proceedings, as though he had never been divested
of 'his title.
The holder of a mortgage upon real estate in Louisiana ordered to be sold
under a decree of confiscation may acquire the life interest of the mortgagor at the sale, and may possess and enjoy that title during the life-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
. Opinion of the Court.
time of the mortgagor without extinguishing either the debt or the
security, by reason of confusion as provided by the code of that State.
The heirs of a person, whose property in Louisiana was sold under a decree
of confiscation, succeed after his death by inheritance from him, and,
being in privity with him, are bound equally with him by proceedings
against him on a ihortgage containing the pact de non alienando.
If a mortgage debtor in Louisiana, in a suit to foreclose a mortgage containing the pact de non alienahdo, waives the benefit of prescri,,ti3.,
those who take from him are estopped from pressing it as effectually as he
is estopped.

TnE cAsE, and the federal question, are stated in the opinion
of the court.
-r.

G. A. Brea/u for plaintiffs in error.

.3. John A. Canmpbell for defendant in error.
MviR. Tus'rfoE BRAnEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Catherine Shields, a sister of Eustace Surget, deceased, and
the children of two other sisters of his, claiming to be his
nearest relatives and only heirs at law, (he having left neither
ascendants nor descendants,) filed a petition in the Civil District Court for the parish of Orleans against Arthur Schiff, in
March, 1883, alleging that said Eustace, in 1860 and thereafter, owned certain property in New Orleans, consisting of
certain lots of ground and buildings, particularly described,
acquired by purchase. from R. P. Hunt by act passed AprI
18thb, 1860; that, by proceedings in the United States Dist,ict
Court said property was condemned "grid confiscated as property of said Surget, under the act of Congress bf July 17th,
1862, and sold at marshal's sale ofi the 30th of May, 1865, to
Arthur Schiff; that Surget died on the 1st of February, 1882;
and that Schiff had continued in possession since that time,
receiving the rents and revenues. The petitioners prayed to
be declared owners of the property and entitled to the possessibn thereof since the death of Surget, and for a judgment
against Schiff for the rent and damages.
Schiff, by his answer, claimed to be the owner and possessor
of the property by lawful title acquired at public sale made by
the civil sheriff of Orleans on the 3d day of August, 1880,

SHIELDS v. SCHIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

under and by virtue of a writ of seizure and sale for the foreclosure of a mortgage given upon said property on the 8th
of January, 1860, by the former owner, R. P. Hunt, to one
Edward Schiff, to secure $24,000, payable in notes which matured in January, 1862; which mortgage the said Eustace Surget, in his act of purchase from Hunt, assumed to pay as part
of the price; and that the defendant, Arthur Schiff, was holder
of the notes secured by said mortgage.
U. ler these pleadings the parties went to proof, and the
statements of both petition and answer were verified. The
act of mortgage given by Hunt to Schiff, January 28th, 1860;
the act of sale by Hunt to Surget, April 18th, 1860; the confiscation proceedings and sale; the foreclosure proceedings and
sale; and testimony of witnesses as to the family of Surget,
were given in evidence. The mortgage from Hunt to Schiff
contained the clause agreeing not to alienate, called the pact
de non alienando. The act of sale by Hunt to Surget con-,
tained a statement that the,amount of the notes secured by the
mortgage was part of the purchase price, and an assumption
by Surget to pay the same, and a p~omise to fulfil and comply
with all the conditions and clauses therein contained.
It appears that Arthur Schiff intervened in the confiscation
proceedings for the protection of his mortgage upon the property, and at the sale became the purchaser for the sum of
$22,000, the residue of which, after payment of costs and expenses, was duly credited on his notes. From the time of said
sale (May 17th, 1865) Schiff had possession of the property.
There remained a large sum due to Schiff on the notes,
amounting, on the 22d bf June, 1880, to over $30,000. On
that day, he instituted proceedings to foreclose his mortgage,
by seizure and sale, making Eustace Surget, the debtor, party
to the proceedings. Surget, being then in France, could not
be personally served with the notice of demand of payment,
and it was served upon a cu'ator ad hoc appointed by the court;
and a writ of seizure and sale was issued, and, on the 3d of
July, 1880, the property was sold, and Schiff became the purchaser for the sum of $19,000. Monition proceedings were
afterwards had, homologating the sale.
VOL. CXXIV-23

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

It appears by a certificate of the authorities 'of the city of
Bordeaux, France, that Surget died in that place on the 1st of
February, 1882. He left a will, dated July 11th, 1872, with a
codieil thereto, dated November 12th, 1879. By the will he
gave all his property to his wife, M[ary Atwell Surget, (who
survived him,) and made her his sole executrix; and the codi-"
oil was in these words, to wit:
"I hereby forcibly enjoin upon my dear wife, or, should she
not be living at thetime of my own demise, upon my natural
heirs, to make immediately unto Arthur Schiff, of the city of.
New Orleans, Louisiana, a -clear and valid title to certain
property situated on Rampart Street, in that city, and conveyed to him by me by notarial act executed by me before
T. 0. Starke, notary public, in the city of New Orleans, on
the 18th of July, 1866, the confiscation laws of the United
States Government having deprived Mr. Schiff up to thepresent
time of the full enjoyment and possession of said property,
which is justly his, it having been my fixed and honest intention to make him a good and valid title to the said property."
It is understood that the property referred to is the same
property now in question in this suit.
The Civil District Court of New Orleans, in accordance
with the decisions of this court in Bigelow v. Forrest,9 Wall.
339; Daay v. -Micou, 18 Wall. 156; The Con 'ecation Cases, 20
Wall. 92; and Va~pes v. Thays, 108 U. S. 6; and also in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in
Aveegno v. Schmidt, (which has since been affirmed by this
court, 113 U. S. 293,) held that the confiscation of Surget's
estate did not affect the mortgage 'vhich his grantor, Hunt,
had given to Schiff, and that a sale of the property under that
mortgage in 1880 was perfectly valid; and that it made nodifference that Schiff, the purchaser of Surget's life estate under
the confiscation proceedings, became also the purchaser under
the mortgage.
It was objected by the plaintiffs against Schiff's title under
the foreclosure proceedings, that the notes, to secure which
the mortgage had been given, had been long prescribed, and
that the mortgage had lapsed for want of re-inscription. But

SHIELDS 9. SCHIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

the Civil District Court overruled this objection and said:
"Like the mortgage in the case of Avegno v. Schmidt, Schiff's
mortgage contained the pact de non aliencando. As we have
seen above, the confiscation proceedings did not disturb the
contractual relations existing between Surget and Schiff. And
as long as the debt was not prescribed, or, if prescribed, and
the debtor did not plead it, the foreclosure was in time.". The
court also held (though this was not necessary to the decision)
that Surget's instituted heir, and not his natural heirs, was
entitled to succeed to the estate upon his death. Judgment
was given in favor of the defendant. This judgment was
appealed' to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and was affirmed.
36 La. Ann. 645. The judgment of the Supreme Court is now
before us for revision; and substantially the same questions
are raised here which were made in the courts of Louisiana.
The opinions of the Justices of the Supreme Coifrt of
Louisiana are presented to us in the record, and seem to us
satisfactorily to dispose of every question which is necessarily
involved. The leading-opinion states the point to be decided,
and the propositions on which the decision should rest, as
follows:
"Under our views of the controversy, in the light of the
established jurisprudence on the true and correct meaning of
the confiscation act, the pivotal issue in the case hinges upon
the validity of the sale effected under the executory process
instituted against Surget by the defendant Schiff in June,
1880. A proper solution of that issue involves a consideration
of the question of the effect of the confiscation on the perpetual ownership or fee of the confiscated property.
"In the recent case of Avegno et a7. v. Schmidt & Ziegler,
35 La. Ann. 585, we had occasion to consider some of the
effects of proceedings instituted under that legislation.
"Under the guidance of numerous decisions of the Supreme
Court of the United States we established in that case the
following propositions, which are to some extent involved in
the present controversy, and which we shall therefore abstain
from discussing in this opinion:
"1st. The act of Congress of July 17, 1862, generally

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

known as the ' Confiscation Act,' and the joint resolution of
the same day explanatory thereto, must be construed together.
"2d. In a sale of property confiscated thereunder, all that
could be sold was a right to the property seized, terminating
with the life of the person for whose offence it had been
seized.
"3d. Such proceedings and sale do not affect the rights of
mortgage existing in favor of third persons on the property,
which goes to the Government or to the purchaser cum onere.
"4th. A mortgagee under an act containing thb pact de
non alienando, can proceed against the mortgagor, after
the latter's expropriation through confiscation proceedings,
as though the latter had never been divested of his -title.
Bigelow v. Forrest,9 Wall. 339; .Dayv. A1Tieou, 18 Wall. 160;
Taples v. Hays, 108 U. S. 6.
"Under the principles thus laid down, resting on the high
authority of the first tribunal of the land, and which we do
not understand to be contested by either party in the case at
bar, we conclude that the following propositions can be considered as fully established in the present controversy:
"1st. That the title which Schiff acquired at the confiscation
sale in May, 1865, expired with Surget at his death, in 1882.
"2d. That the mortgage rights of Schiff on the fee of the
confiscated property for the security of the unpaid balance of
his notes were not affected by that sale, but remained in full
force notwithstanding his acquisition of a life estate in the
property, and his possession and enjoymeni of the same under
his title, and that in this case there was no extinction of either
the debt or the security by reason of confusion, as providedin
our code." pp. 64:7, 648.
There seems to have been some difference of opinion between
the judges on the question whether, after the confiscation proceedings and sale, the fee was in albayance, or in the United
States, or in Surget divested of the power of disposition; but
all agreed that, however it was, the heirs succeeded by inheritance from Surget, and not by donation from the generosity
of the Government; and, hence, being in privity with their
,ancestor, they were bound, equally with him, by the proceed-

SHIELDS v. SCUIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

ings on the mortgage, which contained the pact de non
alienando.
Chief Justice Bermudez says:
"It is true that the proceeding is in rem,but the law of the
sitU

requires it to be conducted contradictorily with the

owner, in order that the judicial sale may operate a valid
divestiture of the title or fee, even if the defendant were not
the owner of the fee at the date of the proceeding and sale
following.
"But even assuming and conceding that the offender, Surget, was actually divested of his entire-ownership, perfect and
imperfect, and that the fee vested in the Uited States, the
divestiture would not be entitled to more effect than it would
have if Surge had, himself, in the absence of any condemnation and sale, voluntarily parted with his ownership of the
property.
"In such, a Oise, under the terms of the contract of sale on
which Schiff -bai-e.his claim, the alienation of the property by
Surget could not have prejudiced him, as it contains the clause
d- non alienando, which, under the laws of this State, authorizes'him to proceed in the enforcement of his debt against the
original ddbtor and mortgagor, regardless of the transfer and
ignori ig it -the property passing to the transferee or purchaser curn onere, or subject to that clause.
. "From that standpoint it is therefore immaterial whether
the fee remained in Surget or passed to the Government. It
was divested by the proceedings of 1880 and vested in Schiff.
"Prescription is a means of defence created by the law for
the necessity of things to which the individuals, in whose
favor it exists, may have recourse or not as they may deem
better. They are under no obligation to set it up. When,
therefore, they are sued in a case in which they could urge it,
and do not do so, they are deemed ta have waived the benefit
of it. Under such circumstances, those who take from them,
their heirs or assigns, are as equally estopped from pressing it
as effectually as the debtor himself.
"As Surget did not set up prescription or preemption prior
to the sale of the property, but, on the contrary, waived it,

OCTOBER .TEP.M, 1887.
Opinion of the' Court.

and recognized title in Schiff, as is shown by his silence and his
will, the claim of Schiff continued in existence, was legal and
valid, and the expropriation became complete in his favor, as'
creditor, purchasing as if.
there never was any prescription
law.
"Those and any other defences which could have been and
were not set up by Surget before the sale, the plaintiffs, who
are Surget's heirs and successors, and who have acquired no
rights which he did not possess, and could not have exercised,
cannot Iv permitted to assert and urge after his death.' pp.
657, 658.
IMr. Justice Fenner says:
"For the purposes of this controversy, it matters not where
the fee resided. Wherever it was, the Supreme Court has unequivocally settled the doctrine that it remained subject to
prior mortgages and privileges in favor of third persons, which
were entirely unaffected by the confiscation proceedings.
"Neither did those proceedings affect the debt due by Surget
to Schiff, which was secured by mortgage.
"The object and effect of the pact de non alienando under
our law is to secure to the mortgage creditor the right to 'foreclose his mortgage by executory process directed solely against
the original debtor, and to seize and sel the mortgaged property, regardless of any subsequent alienations.
"We make a long step towards eliminating irrelevant questions and exposing the real and, pivotal' question in this case
when we announce as an indisputable proposition, that if the
executory.proceedings against Surget were regular; if,, at the
date thereof, the debt subsisted; if the mortgage securing the
same were valid, and had been preserved by proper inscription
and re-inscription, the purchaser at the sale under these proceedings would have" acquired a valid title Against all the
world, regardless of who owned the fee at the date thereof.
"Indeed, I do not understand that the karned counsel of
plaintiffs would dispute this propositioh. They blain that the
title is invalid, as against plaintiffs, on two grounds, viz.:
"1 That at the date of the foreclosure proceeding, the debt
of Schiff had been extinguished, by prescription.

SHIELDS v. SCHIFF.
Opinion of the Court.

"2. That his mortgage had lapsed as to them by the failure.
to re-inscribe it within the term prescribed by law.
"At this point we encounter other elementary propositions,
too plain for dispute, establishing that, whatever force the above
objections might have if urged by third pers6ns, they have
none in favor of the mortgagor or *his heirs. As to prescription, the mortgagor having failed to plead it, its effect is forever lost as to him and his heirs. As to the want of re-inscription, neither inscription or re-inscription is necessary to preserve
the mortgage as against the mortgagor and his heirs.
"By this process of elimination we reduce this controversy
to a single question, viz.: Are the plaintiffs, heirs of Surget,
claiming title by virtue of inheritance through him, or are they
third persons as to him, deriving title from the bounty of the
United States conferred upon them under the merely descriptive quality of heirs of Surget? They have their right upon
the latter hypothesis. If we confine ourselves to the plain
language of the acts of Congress, it is difficult to discern any
foundation for such a theory."
. The learned justice then proceeds to demonstrate from the
words of the act of Congress of-July 17, 1862, and the explanatory resolution, that they make no disposition of the property
confiscated, after the death of the owner, but leave it to devolve
to his heirs according to the lex Pei sitce, and that those heirs
take qua heirs and not by donation from the government.
These opinions express precisely our own views with regard
to the effect of the confiscation act upon the devolution of
title at the death of tle owner in whose hands the property
was confiscated. Indeed, we expressed our concurrence in the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in this case in the
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Woods in Avegno v. Schmidt,
113 U. S. 293, 300. As this is the only federal question in the
case, and as we concur in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana -thereon, we accept the views of the state court as to
the validity of the proceeding for foreclosure under the local
laws of that State. In fact, nearly -every point raised in the
present case was decided in the case of 4vegno v. Schmidt,
above cited.
udment aflrmed

