UNITED STATES, v. GLEESON.
Statement of the Case.

ance found due on the basis of that settlement, could be opened
or set aside, merely because some of the prescribed steps- in
the accounting which it was the duty of -a head of a department to see had been taken, had been in fact omitted; or, if
,they could be so opened and set aside on account of technical
irregularities in the allowance of expenses years afterwards,
when the remedy of the party against the United States is
barred by the statute of limitations, and the remedies of the
United States on 'the other side are intact, owing to its not
being subject to any act of limitation."
The facts found .being sufficient to support the judgment,
itis

UNITED STATES v. GLEESON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CIAIS.
Submitted January 4,1888.-Decided January 16, 1883.

On appeal by the United States from a judgment of the Court of Claims
against them for less than three thousand dollars, rendered pro forma,
against the opinion of that court, and for the purpose of an appeal, this
court, upon objection taken in behalf of the United States to the irregularity of the actions of the court below, reverses the judgment, and remands
the case for further proceedings according to law.

Tis was an appeal by the United States from a judgment
of the Court of Claims upon the petition of Jafies M. T. Gleeson, a clerk of the Post-Office Department, claiming arrears of
salary. Upon. the proofs in the cause, the Court of Claims
made a finding of facts, in substance as follows:
On NVovember 15, 1871, the claimant, by an order of the
Post-Office Department addressed to him, was "designated a
railway post-office head clerk on cars, between Washington,
D. C., and Lynchburg, Va. Pay $1400 per annum." He entered upon his duties under that order, and continued to serve
until May 23, 1883.
On August 14, 1876, one of the blank printed forms, used
by the department to notify railhvay post-office head clerks of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

a reduction of their pay, and copied below, was filled up by
inserting the words and figures in brackets.
"Post-Office Department, Washington, D. C., August [24],
1876. [J. M. T. Gleeson, R. P. O. head clerk, Washington,
D. C.] Sir: The Postmaster General has changed your payas R. P. 0. head clerk between [Washington, D. 0., to Lynchburg, Va.,] from $[1400] to $[1300] per annum, to take effect
on and after August 1, 1876. Very respectfully, &c., [James
H. Ifarr, Acting] First Assistant Postmaster Geileral."
On June 12, 1879, the First Assistant Postmaster General
made an order to "r&duce the pay of" the claimant and three
others, "head clerks on the cars between Washington, D. C.,
and Lynchburg, Va., from $1300 to $1240 per annum, from the
1st to the 30th day of June, 1879, inclusive."
The claimant received these notices and orders, and received
full pay in accordance therewith. From August 1, 1876, to
July 31, 1882, his salary was reduced from $1400 to $1300 per
annum, and for the month of June, 1879, a further reduction
was made from $1300 to $1240 per annum, the whole amount
of the deductions being $597.84.
The further proceedings of the Court of Claims appeared by
the transcript certified by its clerk to this court to have been
as follows :"
Its conclusion of hawwas in these words: "And upon the
foregoing findings of fact, it appearing that the decision in
this case will affect . class of cases, and that the statutory
question involved-is novel, the court decides, for the purpose
of an appeal to the Supreme Court, that the claimant should
recover the sum of $597.8.".
One of the judges, in behalf of the court, delivered the following opinion:
"It has been the rde and usage of this court, when the determination of a new question will affect a class of cases, in
, none of which a claimant, by reason of the smallness of his
demand, will have a right of appeal, to render a judgmenioro
forma against the government in one case, to the end that the
question may be examined and the rights of all parties determined by the Supreme Court.

UNITED STATES v. GLEESON.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the present instance, the question is novel, and the
claimants are a deserving class of officials, whose skill, diligence and honesty affect the entire community probably more
than the personal services of any other officers. If this case
were to receive a final decision in this court, my own conclusion would probably be adverse to the claimant. To me it
seems clear that the Postmaster General had authority to reduce the claimant's compensation prospectively, whose continuation in the railway mail service must have been upon the
terms prescribed; but it does not seem more clear than other
class cases, which have been sent to the Supreme Court in the
same way, and in some of which the Supreme Court has
thought otherwise. Twenty Per Cent Cases, 4 C. Cl. 227;
9 C. 0.. 103.
1"The other members of the court desire to have it understood that their opinion is adverse to the claimant upon the
merits, and that if any other case of this class shall be brought
to a hearing before the question involved be determined by
the Supreme Court, the decision pro forma now rendered will
not furnish a precedent for a recovery.
"The judgment of the court is that the claimant recover of
the defendants the sum of $597.84."
Final judgment was entered in this form: "At a Court of
Claims held in the City of Washington, on the 24th day of
January, A.D. 1887, it was ordered that judgment pro forrna
for the purpose of an appeal to the Supreme Court be entered
as follows:
"The Court, on due consideration of the premises, find for
the claimant, and do order, adjudge and decree that the said
James 11. T. Gleeson do have and recover of and from the
United States the sum of five hundred and ninety-seven and
dollars ($597.84)."
-4
.Mr. Attorney General, -Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Howard, and -Alr. F. P. .Dewees for appellants.
.31r.Robert C. Schenck for appellee.
MR. JusncE, GRA Y, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court,
'VOL. CXXiv-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The United States can be sued for such causes and in such
courts only as they have by act of Congress permitted.
Neither the Court of Claims nor this court can hear and
determine any claim against the United States, except in the
cases, and under the conditions, defined by Congress.
By § 1059 of the Revised Statutes, the Court of Claims had
jurisdiction to hear and determine the claim of Gleeson. The
jurisdiction of this court over it depends upon the provision of
§ 707, by which "an appeal to the Supremie Court shall be
allowed on behalf of the United States from all judgments of
the Court of Claims adverse to the United States, and on
behalf of the plaintiff in any case where the amount in controversy exceeds three thousand dollars."
Congress has thus clearly manifested its will that, in any
cause where the amount in controversy does not exceed three
thousand dollars, the United States alone shall have a right
of appeal; and that if the opinion of the Court of Claims in
sich a cause is adverse to the claimant, a final and conclusive
judgment shall be rendered against him in that court.
By the existing statutes, Congress has neither made, nor
authorized an executive department or the Court of Claims to
make, the appellate jurisdiction of this court, over claims
against the United States for three thousand dollars or less, to
depend upon the question whether the decision will affect a
class of cases; and the omission is the more significant,
because former statutes gave this court, on the certificate of
the presiding justice of the Court of Claims, appellate jurisdiction, and the Court of Claims, on a submission by an executive
department, original jurisdiction, of claims of such an amount,
where the decision would affect a class of cases, or furnish a
precedent for the future action of any executive department
in the adjustment of a class of cases. Acts of March 3, 1863,
c. 95, § 5, 12 Stat. 766; June 25, 1868, c. 71, §§ 1, 7, 15 Stat.
75, 76; Rev. Stat. § 1063; Act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, § 9, 12.
24 Stat. 507.
In the transcript certified to this court, the judgment of the
Court of Claims, that the claimant recover of the United
States the sum of $597.84, appears upon its face to have been

UNITED STATES v. GLEESON.
Opinion of the Court.

rendered "pro forma for the purpose of an appeal to the
Supreme Court." The court's conclusion of law, which is a
necessary part of the record, shows that the decision was made
for that purpose, and because it would affect a class of cases,
and the question involved was novel. And the opinion, which,
though perhaps not strictly a part of the record, has been sent
up with the record, as required by Rule 8 of this court, shows
that the judgment was against the unanimous opinion of the
judges, and that they will not consider it a precedent for a
like decision in "ny other case..
The effect of this way of disposing of the case, if sanctioned
by this court, would be to nullify the restriction put by Congress upon appeals from the Court of Claims, to subject the
United States to be impleaded in this court without their consent, t9 make this court a court of original instead of appellate jurisdiction, and to compel it to hear and determine a
claim which, if the court below had performed the duty,
imposed upon it by law, of applying its own judgment to the
merits of the case, could not have been brought here at all.
In support of such a course of proceeding in a court of first
instance, the appellee relies on a passage in an opinion delivered
by Chief Justice Taney, in a case which came before this court
upon a certificate of division of opinion between two judges in
the Circuit Court, made, as the report states,, "_Zro formnao, and
for the purpose of obtaining the opinion of the Supreme Court
on the points certified." The passage quoted is as follows:
"We are aware that in some cases, where the point arising is
one of importance and difficulty, and it is desirable for the purposes of justice to obtain the opinion of this court, the judges
of the Circuit Court have sometimes, by consent, certified the
point to this court, as upon a division of opinion; when in
truth they both rather seriously doubted than differed about
it. We do not object to a practice of this description, when
applied to proper cases, and on proper occasions."
United
States v. Stone, 14 Pet. 524, 525. But that opinion contains
nothing to countenance the theory that the judges of a subordinate tribunal can be permitted, without considering a case
themselves, to transmit it to this court for determination, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

thus to shift a burden upon this court which none of the judges
below will have any share in disbharging. On the contrary,
the Chief Justice went on to say: "But they must be cases
sanctioned by the judgment of one of the judges of this court,
in his circuit. A loose practice in this respect might render
'this court substantially a court for the original decision of all
causes of importance; -Then the Constitution and the. laws
intended to make it altogether appellate in its character;
except in the few cases of original jurisdiction enumerated in
the Constitution." In that case this court held that it had no
jurisdiction, by reason of the irregularity in the proceedings of
the Circuit Court, and remanded the case to that court for
further proceedings according to law. And in later cases
brought up by certificate of division of opinion, this court has
steadfastly declined to answer questions not certified in accordance with the spirit, as well as the letter, of the statutes upon
that subject. WTebster v. Cooper, 10 How. 54; Railroad Co. v.
WVAite, 101 U. S. 98; Jewell v. lnight,123 U. S. 426.
It is true that there are cases in the books, in whiclr appeals
from judgments of the Court of Claims, appearing to have
been renderedproforma, but no objection being taken on that
ground, have been considered and decided upon the merits.
Twenty Per Cent Cases, 20 Wall. 179, 181, and 9 C. 01. 103,
105, 302, 314; United States v. Martin, 94 U. S.400, and 10
C. (U. 276; United States v. Driscoll, 96 U. S. 421, and 13 C.
01. 15, 40; United States v. Fisher, 109 U. S.143, and 15 C.
01. 323..
But in the case at bar, the irregularity of the action of the
Court of Claims has been objected to by the Attorney General
in behalf of the United States, and cannot be passed-over.
Judgmentreversed, and case remanded to the Court of Claims
forfurtherproceedings according to law.

