OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

The answer alleged, in respect to such counterclaim, that
the statements of the weight of the coal made by the plaintiff
to the defendants were false, and were so known to be by the
plaintiff, and that the amount which he had received from the,
defendants for shortage was obtained from them by his unlawful act. No facts in support of this allegation of the
answer are found by the referee, and his conclusion of law
was correct.
This case not having been tried by the Circuit Court on the
filing of a waiver in writing of a trial by jury, this com't cannot on this writ of error review any of the exceptions taken
to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or any of the exceptions to the findings of fact by the referee, or to his refusal
to find facts as requested. Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604,1
606, 607; Paine v. Central ermnont Railroad,118 U. S. 152,
158.
T7e~judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

LANGDON v. SHERWOOD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted December 12, 3887.-Decided January 9,1888.

Section 429 of the Code of Nebraska, which provides that when a judgment or decree shall be rendered in any court of that State for a conveyance of real estate, and the party against whom it is rendered does not
comply therewith within the time therein named, the judgment or decree
• shall have the same operation and effect, and be as available, as if the
conveyance" "had been executed conformably to such judgment or decree" is a valid act; and such a decree or judgment, rendered in the
Circuit Court of the United States respecting real estate in Nebraska
operates to transfer title to the real estate which is the subject of the
judgment or decree, upon the failure of the party ordered to convey to
comply with the order.
An action of ejectment cannot be maintained in the courts of the United
States for the possession of land within the State of Nebraska on an
entry made with a register and receiver, notwithstanding the provision in

LANGDON v. SHERWOOD.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

§ 411 of the Code of Civil Procedure of that State, that "the usual duplicate receipt of the receiver of any land office . . . is proof of title
equivalent to a patent, against all but the holder of an actual patent."
AT LAw: in the nature of ejectment. The land was in
Nebraska. As to one part of the tract the plaintiff relied
upon the decree of a court of competent jurisdiction for the conveyance of the land to his privy in estate, claiming that under
the operation of § 429 of the Code ot Nebraska, set forth in
the opinion of the court, infra, the decree operated as a conveyance. As to the remainder; he relied upon a certificate of
the register of the land office at Omaha, claiming that under
the provision of § 411 of the Civil Code of Nebraska, also set
forth infra, that was evidence of a legal title. Judgment, for
the plaintiff. Defendants ued out this writ of error.

MAr. J. X. Woolworth, for plaintiffs in error, as to the
first point contended as follows:
The decree of the Circuit Court for Nebraska was incompetent to show title in the plaintiff below, and the court erred in
receiving in evidence the decree and the bill upon which it was
rendered, and taking cognizance thereof in its finding and
judgment.
The reason for the rule violated by the judge in receiving
these papers in evidence, is the principle, well settled in this
court, that evidence of an equitable title is inadmissible in an
action of aiectment.
So this court decided in the Lessee of Hickey v. Stewart,.3How. 'i5.
The action was ejectment. Thd plaintiffs showed
a patent to James Mather, and that they were his heirs. The
defendants traced title to themselves from the heirs of Robert
Starke. They were permitted to read in evidence the record
of proceedings in a suit in chancery, in the Supreme Court of
the State of Mississippi, in which the heirs of Starke were
plaintiffs and the heirs of Mather were defendants. This
record contained a decree finding "that the title of the defendant was obtained by fraud and force and violence against the
.equity of the cbmplainants' ancestor. . . . It was therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed that the title of defendants

OCTOBER TERI,

1887.

Argmnent for Plaintiffs in Error.

said tract of land be and the same is hereby declared to be
fraudulent and void as against the complainants," and that the
defendants shall deliver to the complainants the fall, -peaceable
and actual possession of said lands, (see argument of Henderson, page 752,) and "convey the land to the complainants" and
"awarded the writ of Itaberefacias,' which writ the court of
chancery was authorized to order by a statute of the State."'
(See opinion, page 759:) Under this writ the defendants were
placed in possession.
Mr. Justice McKinley, speaking of the effect of the decree
upon the legal title, says on page 759: "The court -by its decree established the right of the complainants to the land in
controversy, and ordered Mather's heirs, who were all nonresidents of the State of Mississippi, to convey the land to the
complainants, and to deliver to them the possession, and
awarded the writ of habere facia.9; which writ the court of
chancery is authorized to order by a statute of the State.
Without the aid of this writ the court could not have put the
complainants into possession,' the defendants being out of their
jurisdiction; nor could they, for the same reason, compel a
conveyance to the title to the land. The decree is, therefore,
if not otherwise valid, nothing more than an equitable right,
ascertained by.the judgment and decree of a court of ohancery; and until executed by a conveyance of the legal title,
according to the decree, Starke's heirs and those claiming
under them have nothing but an equitable title to the land in
controversy."
The defendant in error seeks to escape the rule laid down in
the above case by citing § 429 (b)of the Code, (Compiled Statutes, ed. 1885, 683,) which is as follows: "When any judg.
ment or decree shall be rendered for a conveyance, release or
acquittance in any court of this State, and the party or parties
against whom the judgment or decree shall be rendered do not
comply therewith within the time mentioned in said judgment
or decree, such judgment or decree shall have the same operation and effect, and be as availale, as if the conveyance,
release or acquittance had been executed conformable to such
judgment or decree."

-to

LANGDON v. SHERWOOD.
Argument for Defendafit in Error.

But this section does not give to a decree the effect of a conveyance of the legal title. It does not say that it shall operate
as a conveyance or be available as a conveyance, but only that
its operation and effect shall be preserved, although a conveyance be not made. The language is, "it shall have the same
operation and effect and be as available as if the conveyance"
had been executed. Its object was to preserve in force the
judgment or decree, notwithstanding the failure to make the
deed, and thus preserve it,
although the decree would otherwise by lapse of time become dormant.
The contention of the defendant in error would have some
foundation if the language were, that the decree should operate as a deed to transfer the legal title from the party against
whom it was made to the party in ^whose favor it was made.
But that was not within the contemplation of the legislature.
It did not mean to give the decree such effect. All that the
statute provides is, that the decree shall be in force and effect
after the expiration of the time limited for the making of the
deed.
The statute, therefore, does not take the case out of the
rule, that a decree in equity directing the defendant therein toexecute a deed, establishes only an equitable title, which will
not support an ejectment.
MJr. John X1.TWarston, for defendant in error, on the second
point contended as follows:
On the trial it was supposed by counsel, and was held by
the court, that § 411, of the Nebraska Code of Civil Procedure, was sufficient to authorize the receipt of those certificates
in evidence to show ay.rimafaoie title in the plaintiff. That
section is as follows: "The usual duplicate receipt of the
receiver of any land office, or, if that be-lost or destroyed, or
beyond the reach of the party, the certificate of such receiver,
that the books of his office show the sale of a tract of land to
a certain individual, is proof of title equivalent to a patent
against all but the holder of an actual patent."
The case of Bagndl v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 436, cited by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs in error, does not, it seems to me, support the claim
urged by opposing counsel. The holding in that case is that
a certificate of the land office cannot be used to maintain title
in ejeciment against an adverse claim under a patent; and the
court in thit case says: "Nor do we doubt the power of the
state to pass laws authorizing purchasers of land from the
United States to prosecute actions of ejectment against trespassers on the land purchased." Is not this such a case ?
I am aware of the fact that the decision in ]Hoo er v.
Scheime ', 23 How. 235, tends to support the claim of counsel
for plaintiffs in error. It seems to hold that the title, shown
.by the production of the land office certificate, is only equita1"le, and'-will not support aii action in ejectment. But in all
cases cited, the parties holding the land office certificate, wereseeking to defeat patents subsequently issued, or at least were
attempting to oust from possession those claiming under some
adverse legal title.
I do not challenge the correctness of the holdings of this
court upon this question, but I may be permitted to suggest
that the rule laid down in Bagnell v. Broderick goes far
enough, and it should not be enforced in favor of mere naked
possession.
Hlowever, I do not apprehend that the judgment in this case
would be reversed in toto because of a failure of proof of title
to a small portion of, land in controversy.
Mm. JUsTioE

MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Nebraska.
The defendant in error brought in that court a suit in the
nature of an action of ejectment to recover several tracts or
parcels of land then in the possession of the plaintiffs in error.
The case was first tried before a jury, and the verdict after,
wards set aside. By a written agreement of the parties, it was
then submitted to the court without a jury. That court made
a general finding in favor of the plaintiff, Sherwood, and certain special findings, and upon both of these rendered a judg-

LANGDON. v. SHERWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

ment for him, for all the land claimed in his petition. A bill
of exceptions was taken, which related to the introduction of
evidence and the findings of the court. On this bill of exceptions and the special findings of fact the plaintiffs here assign
two principal errors.
The first one of these, which affects all the land embraced
in the suit, has reference to the introduction and effect of a
decree in chancery, rendered in the Circuit Court of the
United. States for the District of Kebraska, April 9, 1883, in
which Sherwood was complainant and the Sauntee Land and
Ferry Company' was defendant. The plaintiff in the action of
ejectment, having given evidence which he asserted showed
title to all.the land in controversy in the Sauntee Land and
Ferry Company, introduced the record of this suit in chancery
to establish a transfer of the title by means of the proceedings
in that suit from that company to himself. The bill of complaint set out that this company, while owner of the land, had
made a verbal agreement with -William A. Gwyer that the
latter should take, have, and hold the real estate mentioned,
as his own property, and as consideration for the same should
pay off, settle, and discharge the indebtedness of the company.
The decree of the court established the fact that Sherwood
had acquired the interest of Gwyer in the property, whereby
he became the equitable owner of it all, and that he was entitled to have a conveyance of the legal title from the Sauntee
Land and Ferry Company. The decree then proceeded in the
following language:
"It is further ordered and decreed that the respondent, the
Sauntee Land and Ferry Company, shall, within twenty days
after the entry of this decree, execute, acknowledge, prove,
and record, in the manner provided by law, a good and sufficient deed of conveyance to the complainant of all said real
estate, to vest the entire legal title thereof in the respondent,
and to deliver said deed of conveyance so. executed, acknowledged, proved, and recorded to the complainant.
"It is further ordered and decreed that in case said respondent shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make, execute, acknowledge,
prove, record, and deliver to the complainant such deed of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

conveyance within the time hereinbefore fixed, then, and in
that case, this decree shall stand and be a good, sufficient, and
complete conveyance from the respondent, the Sauntee Land
and Ferry Company, to the complainant, Willis M. Sherwood,
of all the right, title, and estate of said respondent in and to
said real estate, and shall be taken and held as good, complete,
,and perfect a deed of conveyance as would be the deed of conveyance hereinbefore specified. And that the respoiident, and
all persons claiming through, from, or under it, be, and they
are hereby, perpetually barred, restrained, and enjoined from
asserting any right, title, ownership, or interest in or to said
real estate adversely to the complainant, and from in any
manner interfering with the peaceable and quiet possession of
complainant in and of the same."
No conveyance was ever made under this decree by that
company, and it is objected that for this reason Sherwood did
not acquire by that proceeding the stfict legal title, but only
obtained an equitable one, and the quieting of that title as
against the Sauntee Land and Ferry Company. Section 429
of the Code of Nebraska is, however, relied upon by Sherwood's counsel as giving to the decree in his favor in the
chancery suit the effect of an actual conveyance of the title.
That section is as follows:
"When any judgment or decree shall be rendered for a conveyance, release, or acquittance in any court of this State, and
the party or parties against whom the judgment or decree
shall be rendered do not comply therewith within the time
mentioned in said judgment.-or decree, such judgment or
decree shall have the same operation and effect, and be as
available, as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance had
been executed conformable to such judgment or decree."
I We are of opinion that if this section of the code be valid,
it wasthe intention of the makers of it that a judgment and
decree, such as the one before us, should have the same effect,
*whre the parties directed to make -the conveyance fail to
comply with the order, as it would have had if they had- complied, in regard to the transfer of title-from them to the party.
to whom they were bound to convey by the decree:" The

LANGDON

v. SHERWOOD.

Opinion of the Court.

language of this section of the code hardly admits of any
other " construction. When the party decreed to make the
conveyance does not comply therewith within the time mentioned in the judgment or decree, such judgment or decree
shall have the same effect and operation and be as available
as if the conveyance had been executed. The operation or
effect here meant was the transfer of title, and it could not
have been made any clearer if it had .said that it should have
the effect of transferring the title from the party who fails to
convey to the one to whom it ought to be conveyed. This
must have been the meaning in the minds of the legislators.
It was undoubtedly the ancient and usual course in such a
proceeding to compel the party who should convey to perform the decree of the court by fine and imprisonment for
refusing to do so. But inasmuch as this was a troublesome
and expensive mode of compelling the transfer, and the party
might not be within reach of .the process of the court so that
he could be attached, it has long been the practice of many of
the States, under statute,- enactecd for thaL purpose, to attain
this object, either by the appointment of a special -ommissioner who should convey in the name of the party ordered to
convey, or by statutes similar to the one under consideration
by which the judgment or decree of the court was made to
stand as such conveyance on the failure of the party ordered
to convey.
The validity of these statutes has never been questioned, so
far as we know, though long iD existence in nearly all the
States of the Union. There can be no doubt of their efficacy
in transferring the title, in the courts of the States which
have enacted them, nor do we see any reason why the courts
of the United States may not use this mode of effecting that
which is clearly within their power.
The question of the mode of transferring real estate is one
peculiarly within the jurisdiction of the legislative power of
the State in which the land.-aies. As this court has repeatedly
said, the mode of conveyance is subject to the control of the
legislature of the State; and as the case in hand goes -apon
the proposition that the title had passed from the government
VOL.CxxiV-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opihion of the Court.

of the United States and was in controversy .between private
citizens, there can be no valid objection. to this mode of
enforcing the contract for conveyance between them according to the law of Nebraska. United States v. Crosby, 7
Cranch, 115; Olark v. Graham, 6 Wheat. 577; .McCormick v.
Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192; United States v. -Fox, 94 U. S. 315;
-Brinev. Insurance Co., 96 U. S. 627; Connecticut ins. Co. v.
Cushman, 108 U. S. 51. We cannot see, therefore, any error
in the Circuit Court in permitting the proceedings in the
chancery suit to be given in evidence, nor in giving to them
the effect of transferring from the Sauntee Land and Ferry
Company such legal title as it had to any of the property in
controversy.
The plaintiff, in order to sustain his right of action in this
suit, offered in evidence, first, a, certificate of the register of
the land office at Omaha, Nebraska, of the date of August
14th, 1857, of the location by John Joseph Wright of a military land warrant upon the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section twenty-ei'rht, and the west half
of the northwest quarter of section thirty-three, in township
.thirteen North of Range ten East, containing one hundred
and twenty acres. He also offered the assignment of this
land and the certificate to the Sauntee Land and Ferry Company. Another certificate of the receiver at Omaha, of the
same date, was also offered, acknowledging the payment of
$45.50 for the purchase of lot number one of quarter section
number thirty-three, in Township number.thirteen North of
Range ten East, containing thirty-six acres and forty-hundredths, and an assignment thereof to the same company.
To both of these certificates and assignments the defendants
objected, on the ground that they were immaterial, and did
not 'purport to be a conveyance of said lands, and that title
could not be shown in this action of ejectment by a certificate
of a register or receiver. In its findings, the court, upon this
subject, finds specially, that by virtue of these certificates "the
said Wright became seized in- fee of the said-lands, and that
by his deed of conveyance thereof the same passed to the
Sauntee Land and Ferry Company."

LANGDON v. SHERWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

It has been repeatedly. decided by this court, that such
certificates of the officers of the land department do not convey the legal title of the land to the holder of the certificate,
but that they only evidence an equitable title, whichi may
afterwards be perfected by the issue of a patent, and that in
the courts of the United States such certificates are not sufficient to authorize a recovery in. an action of ejectment. The
ground of these decisions is, that in these courts, a recovery in
ejectment can only be had upon the strict legal title; that this
class of certificates presupposes the existence of the title in the
United States at the time they were-given; and that something more is necessary to show that this legal title was ever
divested from the United States by a patent or otherwise.
The decisions on this subject are quite numerous, and the
principle on which they rest has been frequently asserted and
maintained with uniformity.
In the case of Bagn v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 436, 450, this
question was very fully considered, and the language of the
court, expressive of the result arrived at, is, that "Congress
has the sole power to declare the dignity and effect of titles
emanating from the United States; and the whole legislation
of the Federal Government, in reference to the .public lands,
declares the patent the superior and conclusive evidence of
legal title; until its issuance the fee is in the government,
which, by the patent, passes to the grantee; and he'is entitled to recover the possession in ejectment."
Few v. IHolines, 21 How. 481, 483, was also a case of this
character, and in that the court said: "This is an attempt to
assert at law; -and by a legal remedy, a right to real property
-an action of ejectment to establish the right of possession
in land. That -the plaintiff in ejectment must in all cases
prove a legal title to the premises in himself, at the time of the
demise laid in the declaration, and that evidence -f an equitab1e estate will not be sufficient for a recovery, are principles
so elementary and so familiar to the profession as to rbfder
unnecessary the citxtion bf authority in slupport of them."
The case of Hoqper v. Sclwimer, 23 HoW',235, was an action
of ejectment in the Ciiuit Court of the UTited States fdr .pi e

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Eastern District of Arkansas. The plaintiff endeavored to
maintain his right to recover possession by the production of
an entry made in the United States Land Office. A statute
of Arkansas enacted that an action of ejectment may be maintained where the plaintiff claims possession by virtue of an
entry made with the register or receiver of the proper Land
Office. This court, however, after referring to the case of
BagnelZ v. Broderick, and declaring that its principles are the
settled doctrine of the court, adds: "But there is another
question standing in advance of the foregoing, to wii: Can
an action of ejectment be maintained in the Federal courts
against a defendant in possession, on an entry made with the
To which question it responds by
register and receiver?"
saying: "It is also the settled doctrine of this court, that no
action of ejectment will lie on such an equitable title, notwithstanding a state legislature may have provided otherwise 15y
statute. The law is only binding on the state courts, and has
no force in the Circuit Courts of the Union." See also Foster
v. . ora, 98 U. S. 425, for an assertion of the same principle.
The defendants in error rely upon § 411 of the Nebraska
Code of Civil Procedgre, which is analogous in its provisions
to the statute of Arkan~as referred to in the case of tHooer v.
Sckeirner. That section is as follows: "The usual duplicate
receipt of the receiver of any land office, or, if that be lost or
destroyed, or beyond the reach of the party, the certificate of
such receiveq,.ihat the books of his office show the. sale of a
tract of land to a certain individual; is proof of title equivalent
to a patent, against all but the holder of an actual patent."
But, whatever effect may be given to this statute in the courts
of the State of Npbraska, it is obvious tbat, in the Circuit Court
of the United States, it cannot be received as establishing the
legal title in tie holder of such certificate. Where the question is one of a derivation of title from the United States, it is
plain that this class of evidence implies that the title remains
in the United States. The certificate is given for the purpose
of vesting in the receiver of it an equitable right to demand
*the patent of the government after such further proceedings
as the laws of the United States and the course of business in
the departments may require.

LAXGDON v: SHERWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court cannot presume that a patent has been
issued to the party to whom such certificate was issued, or to.
any one to whom he may have transferred it. The fact of the
issue of a patent is a matter of record in the Land Department
of the United States, and a copy of that record may be so
easily obtained by application at the proper office, that no
necessity exists for the acceptance in an action at law of the
receipt of a register or receiver as a substitute for the patent.
If it never issued it is obvious that the legal title remains in
the United States, and, according to the well-settled principles
of the actionof ejectment, the plaintiff cannot be entitled to
recover in the action at law.
To receive this evidence, and to give to it the effect of proving a legal title in the holder of such a receipt, because the
statute of the State proposes to give to -it such an effect, is to
violate the principle asserted in Bagnell v. Broderick, that it
is for the United States to fix the dignity and character of the
evidences of title which issue from the government. And it is
also in violation of the other principle settled by the cited decisions, that in the courts of the United States a recovery in
ejectment can be had alone upon the strict legal title, and that
the courts of law do not enforce in that manner the equitable
title evidenced by these certificates.
There was error, therefore, in the decision of the court admitting these certificates from the land office as evidence of
title; and in the finding that there was such evidence of title in
the plaintiff as justified the recovery. The judgment of the
court on the facts found in regard to.the remainder of the land
is correct. It must, however, be reversed for the error in
regard to.the one hundred and fifty-six acres and forty-hundredths included in'the two certificates of the land office. It
is, therefore,
Remanded, with instructionsto render judgment against the
2laintifffor the one hundred anndffty-six acres andfortyhundredths, and in his favor for the remainder of the
land.

