BROWN v. AlcCONNELL.

489

Opinion of the Court.

stance and not of form, and their omission is not aided or
cured by the verdict.
It follows that
Tle three questions certified to us must be answered in the
negative; and it is so ordered.

BROWN v. McCONNELL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHINGTON.
Submitted January 9, InS3.-Decided January 30, 1888..

The signing of a citation returnable to the proper term of this court, but
without the acceptancb of security, nevertheless constitutes an allowance
of appeal which enables this court to take jurisdiction, and to afford the
appellants an opportunity to furnish the requisite security here, before
peremptorily dismissing .the case.
Castro v. United States, 3 Wall. 46; and United States v. Curry,6 How. 106;
distinguished.
MOTION TO

DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
-Yfr. Attorney General Garland for the motion.
-f.

Leander Holmes opposing.

Mr.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. delivered

the opinion of the court.

The facts on which this motion rests are these:
A judgment was rendered by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington July 18, 1885, dismissing an appeal. On
the 15th of July, 1886, Lorenzo D. Brown and Leander Holmes
presented a bond as security for an appeal from this judgment
to one of the justices of that court, and he, on the 21st of that
month, indorsed upon it his approval. On the 17th of November, 1886, a citation was signed by the same justice, requiring
McConnell, as appellee, to appear in this court to answer the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal "on the second Monday in October next," which was
the first day of the present term. This citation was served on
McConnell the day of its date. On the 23d of -May, 18.7,
which was the last Monday in our term of 1886, the appeal
was docketed anddismissed under Rule 9, on motion of counsel for the appellee. On the Ith of August, 1887, the case
was again docketed by the appellants. This motion is to
dismiss upon that docketing.
Even if it should be conceded that an appeal was allowed
by the approval of the bond July 21, 1886, that appeal became
inoperative by the failure of the appellants to docket the case
at our term of 1886 and by the order to dismiss made upon
the docketing by the appellee. The rights of the parties depend, therefore, on. the legal effect of the signing of the citation on the 17th of November, 1886, returnable to this term
without taking any new security.
The statute makes no special provision as to the form of an
allowance of an appeal, but this court has said that "as there
can be no appeal without the taking of security, either for
costs or costs and damages, and this to be done by the court,
or a judge or justice, the acceptance of the security, if followed
when necessary by the signing of a citation, is, in legal effect,
the allowance of an appeal." Sage. v. Railroad Co., 96 -U. S.
712, 714; -Draperv. Davis, 102 U. S. 370, 371; Brandies v.
Cochrane, 105 .U. S. 262.
In the present case there was the signing of a citation returnable to the present term, but no 'acceptance of security, and
the question presented is, whether that is enough of itpelf to
constitute an allowance of an appeal such as will give this
court jurisdiction, and, if it is, whether, before dismissing the
case peremptorily, we may permit the appellants to give the
requisite security here. O'Reilly v. Edrington, 96 U. S. 724,
726.
An appeal to this court in a proper case -is matter of right,
and its allowance'is in reality nothing more than the doing of
those things which are necessary to give the appellant the
meails of invoking our jurisdiction. A writ of error is the
process of this court, and it is issued, therefore, only upon our

BROWN v. McCONNELL.
Opinion of the Court.

authority; but an appeal can be taken without any action by
this court. All that need be done to get an appeal. is for the
appellant to cite his adversary in the proper way to appear
before this court, and for him to docket the case here at the
proper time. Such a citation as is required may be signed by
a judge of the Circuit Court from which the appeal is taken or
by a justice of this court. Rev. Stat. § 999. As appeals from
territorial cotrts are to be taken in the same manner and under
the same regulations as from the circuit courts,, (Rev. Stat.
§'703,) it follows that citations on such appeals may be signed
by a judge or justice of the territorial court or by a justice of
this court.
If an appeal is taken by'the action of the court in session
bef6re the end of the term at which the decree is rendered no
formal citation is necessary,, because both parties, being constructively ;n court during the entire term, they are charged
by law with notice of all that is done in the case affecting their
interests. But if the necessary security is not taken until after
the term, a citation is required to bring Lhe appellee before us,
although, if the case is docketed here in time, it will not be
dismissed at the return term until an opportunity has been
afforded the appellant to give the requisite notice. The appeal
taken in open court, if docketed here in time, gives tlhis court
jurisdiction of the subject matter and invests it with power
to make all orders, consistent with proper practice, which are
needed in furtherance of justice. This subject was fully considered in Hewitt v. Filbert,116 U.. S.142.
To get an appeal after the term at which the decree is rendered a party must apply to the proper justice or judge to
sign a citation. If he signs it, he furnishes the appellant the
means of getting his case into this court, and in legal effect
allows an appeal. All the appellant has to do after that to
give this court jurisdiction both of the subject matter of the
appeal and of the parties, is to serve his citation and to docket
the case here in time.
By § 1000 of the Revised Statutes the justice or judge is required when he sighas a citation to take good and sufficient
security that the appellant shall prosecute his appeal to effect,

OCTOBER -TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and if he fail to make his plea good answer all costs. The
failure to take such security is an irregularity, but it does not
necessarily avoid the citation. The security is required, however, in the due prosecutiofA of the appeal, and if the case is
docketed here in time it will not ordinarily be dismissed because
of the neglect or omission of the justice or judge to require the
security until the appellant has been afforded a reasonable
opportunity of curing the defect. The taldng of security is
not jurisdictional in its character, and its omission affects only
the regulaxity of the proceedings. Such being the case, permission to supply it here may properly be given in furtherance
of justice.
There is nothing in the case of Castro v. United .States, 3
Wall. 46, or in that of United States v. Curry, 6 Iow. 10(,
which is at all inconsistent with our present ruling to the effect
that in ordinary cases the signing of a citation in time by the
proper justice or judge is a sufficient allowance of an appeal.
Castro's Case arose under the act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631,
0. 41, to ascertain and settle private land claims in California,
which required (§ 9) appeals to be granted by the district court
on the application of the party against whom the judgment
was rendered. Clearly, a citation signed by a judge out of
court would not be the allowance of an appeal under that
statute, because that appeal must be allowed by the court.
Curr!s Case arose under the act of May 26, 1824, 4. Stat. 52,
c. 173, which required an appeal to be taken within one year
from the time of the rendition of the judgment, (§ 2,) and the
citation was not signed before the end of that time. The
jurisdiction of this court depended, therefore, entirely on the
first appeal, which had become inoperative by failure to docket
it at the return term.
It is, therefore,
Orderedthat the cause stand dismissed, unless the appellants
shall, on or before the 19th day of 3farch next, file with
the clerc of this court a bond in theoenal sum of five
hundred dollars, conditioned according to lawfor the purposes of the apeal, with sureties to be approved by the
Justice of this court allotted to the 3Tinth Circuit.

STEWART v. - MASTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Similar orders may be entered in Brown v. Hazzard, and Brown
v. Ranck, which were submitted on like motions.
Mr. Attorney General Garland on behalf of Hazzard and Ranek,
and Mr. TV.. TV. U2pton on behalf of Ranck, for the motion.
Mr..LeanderHolmes opposing.

STEWART v. MASTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted January 9, 1888.-Decided January 30, 1888.

The signing of a citation after the expiration of the term to which an appeal taken with security was returnable, and after the commencement
of the following term, and without taking new security, is in effect the
granting of a new appeal returnable at the next term of court thereafter.
An appeal docketed in this court after a term ends and before the next f 1lowing term begins, is docketed as of the next following term.
An appeal bond having become inoperative by reason of failure to docket
the appeal at the next term of this court, and a new appeal having been
granted without the filing of a new bond, on motion to dismiss for want
of filing an appeal bond; Held, that the motion should be granted unless
appellant, before a day fixed by the order, should file a bond with the
clerk of this court, with sureties to the satisfaction of the Justice allotted to the Circuit. Brown v. McConnell, ante, 489, followed.
MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

couirt.

-M'. . S. Hende for the motion.

2l[r. . C. Lancaster opposing.
MR. CiEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The facts on which this motion rests are these: The decree
from which the appeal was taken was rendered November 7,

