OCTOBER ,TRM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

bankruptcy, apd there was no right growing out of the agreement which passed, or could pass, to the assignee in bankruptcy, as representing Hood, because, in that respect, the rights
of the plaintiff attached only to rights which existed in favor
of Hood at the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
The only other right which the plaintiff could have, in his
capacity as assignee in bankruptcy, was the right to reach
property transferred by Hood in fraud of his creditors. As
to that, the proof is that no property was transferred by Hood
in fraud of his creditors, or taken by Frellsen in fraud of such
creditors.
We see nothing to impeach the validity of the rights of
Frellsen sought to be enforced by the executory process, and
affirm the decree of the Circuit Court.
-Affirmed.

DRYFOOS v. WIESE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 14, 188T.-Decided January 9, 1888.

Claim 2 of reissued letters-patent No. 9097, granted. to Louis Dryfoos,
assignee of August Beck, February 24, 1880, for an "improvement in
quilting machines," namely, "2. The combination, with a series of vertically reciprocating needles mounted in a laterally reciprocating sewingframe, of conical feed-rolls, and mechanism for causing them to act
interinittingly daring the intervals between the formation of stitches,
substantially a herein shown and described," is not infringed by a
machine which has no conical rollers, but has short cylindrical feedrollers at each edge of the goods, which they feed in a circular diredtion
by moving at different rates 6f speed constantly, the needles having a
forward movement corresponding to that of the cloth while the needles
are in it, nor by a machine which has the well-known sewing-machine
iour-motion feed, which is capable of feeding in a circular direction: by
lengthening the feed at the longest edge of the goods.

BILL IN EQUITY to restrain alleged infringements of letterspatent. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

DRYFOOS v. WIESE.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Edmund Wetmore for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
M

.JUSTICE BLATcHFOED delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by
Louis Dryfoos against William Wiese, for the infringement
of reissued letters-patent No. 9097, granted to said Dryfoos,
assignee of August Beck, February 24, 1880, for an "improvement in quilting machines," on an application for a reissue
filed January 24, 1880, the original patent, No. 190,184, having been granted to Louis Dryfoos and Joseph Dryfoos, as
assignees of Beck, May 1, 1877, on an application filed February 27, 1877. Joseph Dryfoos assigned all his interest to
Louis Dryfoos, and the patent was reissued to Louis Dryfoos
January 29, 1878, as No. 8063, on an application filed January

2, 1878.
There are six claims in the second reissue, but the bill
alleges infringement only of claim 1, and prays for an injunction only as to claim 1. The plaintiff's proofs, however, were
directed to showing ,ininfringement of claims 1 and 2.
The Circuit Court, 21 a'tchford, 19, considered the case in
respect to both claim 1 and claim 2. It held the second reissue
to be invalid in respect to claim 1, and to be valid as* to claim
2; but it held that the defendant had not infringed claim 2,
and dismissed the bill. From that decree the plaintiff has
appealed.
In the opinion of the Circuit Court, delivered by Judge
Wheeler, the questions involved are so well stated that we
adopt his language, as follows: "The invention was and is
stated, in the original and reissues, to be of improvements on
the quilting machine shown in letters-patent No. 159,884,
dated February 16, 1875, granted to the same inventor," (that
is, to Louis Dryfoos, as assignee of Beck, as inventor). "That
machine was for quilting by gangs of needles in zigzag parallel
lines, and was fed by cylindrical rolls having an intermittent
VOL. Cx.x-IV-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

rotary motion, which would move the cloth while the needles
were out of it, and could be arranged to feed in straight lines,
direct or oblique. The original of the patent in suit showed
different mechanism for actuating the feed-rolls so that th&
length of stitch could be varied at pleasure, and conical rolls.
having an intermittent motion to feed the conical bodies
of skirts and skirt-borders in a circular direction,, when the
needles
were out of the cloth, as well as cylindrical rolls for
straight goods, and other improvements upon other parts of
the machine, and had claims for the feed mechanism, and
improvements upon the other parts of the machine*,but none
for the conical feed-rolls. The first reissue further described
the conical feed-rolls as made of such taper as to conform to>
the shape of the skirt or borddr to be quilted, and claimed the
combination of the series of needles with the conical feed-rolls.
acting intermittently, in place of one of the other claims. The
reissue in suit still further describes the conical feed-rolls as.
the embodiment of a feed device which. extends substantially
throughout the width of the conical strip of goods, and, as it
departs from the shorter curved edge and approaches the
longer curved edge, is adapted to have a proportionately
increased range of feed movement, so that it will feed the
conical strip of goods in the requisite curved path evenly and
without any injurious strain or drag; and further claims the
combination with the gang of sewing mechanisms, and the
cloth-plate which supports the goods under them, of a feed
device operating intermittingly in the intervals between the
formation of the stitches, -which extends and operates substantially across the conical strip of goods, and which, as it departs.
from the shorter curved edge, and approaches the longer curved
edge, of the goods, is adapted to have- a proportionately increased range of feed movement. The defendant is engaged
inusing a quilting machine for quilting conical goods, having
a gang of needles, and short cylindrical feed-rollers at each
edge of the goods, which they feed in a circular direction, by
moving at different rates of speed constantly, the needles having a forward movement corresponding to that of the cloth
while in it; and, also, one with a four-motion feed, which is.

DRYFOOS v. WIESE.
Opinion of 'the Court.

capable of feeding in a circular direction, by lengthening the
feed at the longest edge of the goods, but is not shown to
have been so used, or intended to be so used. The validity
of the reissue and infringement of it, if valid, are denied."
The Circuit Court then proceeds: "Beck well appears to have
meritoriously invented effective means for giving circular
direction to the feed of quilting machines having gangs
of needles for quilting several parallel seams.' He set forth
these means in the specifications and drawings of his original
patent, and seems to have been well c.ititled to then have a
patent for them, and for the combination of the mechanism
with the gang of needles. But he does not appear to have been
entitled to a patent for merely giving such direction to such
feed-motion apart from the mechanism, nor to the process of
operation of his mechanism for giving such direction. Neither
could he claim the combination of mechanism not then known,
or its processes, with the needles. He invented his own mechanism, and the combination of that with the co5perating
parts of the machine, and nothing more; and seems to have
been entitled to a patent for those and no more. The first
reissue was within a few months of the original, and before
others appear to have done anything in that region of invention, and seems to have been well enough. The second reissue
was more than two years after the original, but, whether too
long after or not, was, in effect, for the combination of the
gang of needles and cloth-plate with any feeding mechanism
which would reach across the cloth and feed the long side
faster than the other. This was, clearly, beyond the invention shown in the original, and, except as to the mechanism
shown in the original, beyond 'the invention in every way.
This claim of the reissue is, therefore, wholly invalid."
Claims 1 and 2 in the second reissue are as follows:
"1. In a machine for quilting conical strips of goods, the
combination, with the series or gang of sewing mechanisms
and the cloth-plate which supports the goods under the action
of the same, of a.,feed device operating intermittingly in the
intervals bEtweeii.the formation of the stitches, which extends
and opera-bes substantially across, or from edge to edge of,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

the conical strip of goods, and which, as it departs from the
shorter curved edge and approaches the longer curved edge
of said goods, is adapted to have a proportionately increased
range of feed-movement, substantially as and for the purposes
set forth.
"2. The combination, with a series of vertically reciprocating
needles mounted in a laterally reciprocating sewing-frame,
of conical feed-rolls, and mechanism for causing them to 'ct
intermittingly during the intervals between the formation
of stitches, substantially as herein shown and described."
Claim I is n 6 t brought before us by the counsel for the
appellant, for, in his brief, he states that it is only necessary
to consider claim 2, for the reason that, if claim 1, first introduced into the second reissue, is broader than claim 2, (which
is substantially in the same language as claim I of the first
reissue,) it is an unlawful exTansion, introduced nearly three
years after the original patent was granted; and that, if the
defendant has not infringed claim 2 of the second reissae, he
has infringed no lawful claim of it. We therefore make no
ruling as to claim 1.
As to claim 2, the Circuit Court held that, as it was valid
as claim I of the first reissue, in the form in which it there
appeared, and was brought forward into the second reissue,
as claim 2 thereof, in substantially the same language, it was
not made invalid by the fact that claim 1 of the second reissue
was invalid; and that the plaintiff appeared, therefore, to be
entitled to a monopoly of the conical feed-rollers in claim 2.
On the question of the infringement of claim 2, the ,Circuit
Court held, that neither one of the defendant's machines above
described infringed that claim, because neither one of those
machines had conical rollers, nor any of the other mechanism
of the plaintiff; that what the defendant did was not to divide
the plaintiff's conical feed-rollers into sections or parts, in such
manner as to make the parts the equivalent of the whole; but
that the plaintiff's machine gave the circular direction to the
goods by mechanism which accomplished the result in one
way, while in the defendant's mnachines the result was accomplished by different mechanism in a different way. We are
of opinion that this view of the case was correct.

DRYFOOS v. WIESE.
Opinioif of the Court.

The specification of the second reissue states that Beck's
feed device "extends substantially throughout th6width of the
conical strip of goods;" that, as such feed device "departs
from the shorter curved edge and approaches the longer
curved edge of the goods," it "is adapted to have a proportionately increased range of feed-movement-;" that such .feed
the drawings, of feed-rolls H,
device "consists, as is shown 'in
which re made of conical shape, and of such taper or relative
diameters at their respective ends as to conform to the shape of'
the skirt or border to be quilted." In one of the defendant's
machines there are short cylindrical feed-rollers at each edge
of the goods, which they feed in a circular direction by moving at different rates of speed constantly, the needles having a
forward movement corresponding to that of the cloth while the
needles are init. The other one of the defendant's machines
has the well-known sewing-machine four-motion feed, which
is capable of feeding in a circular direction by lengthening
the feed at the longest edge of the goods. Neither of these
*machines has any such conical rollers as are found in the plaintiff's patent, and are particularly specified as an element in
claim 2 of the second reissue.
It is contended for the plaintiff, that, as Beck was the first
to devise a combination the gist of which is a feed feeding faster at one end than at the other, with a laterally moving gang
or series of needles, and an intermittent feed when the needles
are out of the stitches, he is entitled to cover all variations in
the form of the feed, so long, as by any means it operates to
feed faster at one end than at, the ther; and that, if that
result is accomplished, the mechanism must be an equivalent
for that of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff's patent must be limited to the mechanism
described and claimed by him, and cannot be extended so as
to cover all mechanism for giving a circular direction to the
feed-motion, nor to the process of operation of the mechanism
described in his patent; and the defendant's mechanism, in
each form of his machine, cannot be regarded as merely an
equivalent for the plaintiff's mechanism. The case is substantially like that of Yale Lock Co. v. Sargent, 117 U. S. 3'73.

OCTOBER TERM,' 1887.
Syllabus.

There te claim of the patent, which was for an improvement
in permutation 'locks, claimed the arrangement of two or more
rollers, of varying eccentricity, resting upon the periphery of
a cam, for the purpose of preventing the picking of the lock.
In the defendant's lock, the rollers were indentical with each
other in eccentricity and shape, but it was claimed by the
plaintiff that, when in revolution, they varied in eccentricity in
reference to the cam which operated them, so that, in action,
their eccentricity varied, and the same result was produced.
But this court held that the description in the patent, and the
claim, required that the variation of eccentricity should be
between the rollers themselves, and not a variation in action
in reference to the cam; that, although the same result might
be produced, it was not produced by the same means; and
that there was no infringement.

D)ecree fl~rmed.

iINOCHXN v. LINCOLN.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THB

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 18, 21, 1887. -Decided

January 9, 1888.

In general it is for the jury to determine whether, under all the circumstances, the acts which a buyer does or forbears to do amount to a
receipt and acceptance within the terms of the statute of frauds.
Where the facts in relation to a contract of sale alleged to be within the
statute of frauds are not in dispute, it belongs to the court to determine
their legal effect.
A court may withhold from the jury facts relating to a contract of sale
alleged to be within the statute of frauds, when they are not such as can
in law warrant the finding of an acceptance, and this rule extends to
cases where, though there may be a scintilla of evidence tending to.show
an acceptance, -the court would still feel bound to set aside a verdict
which finds an acceptance on that evidence.
In. order to take an alleged contract of sale out of the ,operation of the
statute of frauds there must be acts of such a character as to place the
property unequivocally within the power and under the exclusive dominion of the buyer, as absolute owner, discharged of all lien for the price.
Where, by the terms of the contract, a sale is to be for cash, or any other
condition precedent to the buyer's acquiring title in the goods be
imposed, or the goods be at the time of the alleged receipt not fitted for
delivery according to the contract, or anything remain to be done by the

