UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
Syllabus.

UNITED GAS PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. TEXAS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 13.

Argued October 15, 18, 1937. Reargued December 14, 15,
1937.-Decided February 14, 1938.

1. Procedure of a state commission in fixing the rate of a public
utility; of a state court of first instance in a review by a trial
de novo; and of a state appellate court in reviewing the judgment
sustaining the rate,-held consistent with due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 128 et seq., 138.
2. It is not' the function of this Court, in reviewing a judgment of
a state court, to determine whether the procedure in that court
was in accordance with the state law; the final judgment of the
state court detei r.ines that it was. P. 139.
3. The power of
State over the procedure of its courts includes
the power to reuire that issues of fact be decided by jury, even
in a complicated and difficult case involving the adequacy of a rate
fixed for a public utility. P. 139.
4. On a trial of a rate case in which the issue of confiscation was put
before a jury on a general charge with respect to the elements to
be considered in determining whether the rate would yield a fair
return on the value of the company's property used and useful
in the public service,--held that the company was not entitled
under the Fourteenth Amendment to have special issues framed
and submitted covering some but not all of the items involved in
the determination. P. 141.
5. This Court will review the findings of fact by a state court (1)
where a federal right has been denied as a result of a finding
shown by the record to be without evidence to support it, and
(2) where a conclusion of law as to a federal right and findings of
fact are so intermingled as to make it necessary, in order to pass
upon the federal question, to analyze the facts, such analysis being
made, not to determine issues of fact arising on conflicting testimony or inference, but to perform this Court's proper function in
deciding the question of law arising upon the findings which the
evidence permits. P. 142.
6. Upon a trial of the issue of confiscation, a public utility is not
entitled to have property not used or useful in its business in-

OCTOBER TERM, I937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

cluded in the rate base even though it was so included by the
commission that fixed the rate. P. 144.
7. In fixing a rate for the future, the rate-making authority, in its
consideration of returns from operations, is not limited to a particular year-especially a year of abnormal economic conditions;
and similarly, a trial court may consider the results of the utility's
operations for a series of years, including those intervening between the time of promulgation of the rate, and the time of trial,
and determine the issue of confiscation in the light of the average
return thus shown. P. 145.
8. In estimating what will be the returns from a rate which has not
been put into effect, a court is entitled to a reasonable basis for
prediction, especially in view of a contemplated emergence from
a period of extreme economic depression. P. 145.
89 S. W. 2d 1094, affirmed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment sustaining
an order of the Railroad Commission of Texas fixing a
rate for the appellant Gas Company in the City of Laredo. The Supreme Court of Texas declined to grant a
writ of error. With respect to the validity of a provision
of the order making the questioned rate retroactive, this
Court is equally divided.

Messrs. John P. Bullington and F. G. Coates for appellant on the reargument. Mr. F. G. Coates, with whom
Mr. John P. Bullington was on the brief, for appellant
on the original argument.
Messrs. Alfred M. Scott and Edward H. Lange, with
whom Mr. William McCraw, Attorney General of Texas,
was on the brief, for appellees on the reargument and on
the original argument.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellant, United Gas Public Service Company, challenges the validity of a rate fixed by the Railroad Commission of Texas for natural gas supplied by appellant
for domestic uses in the City of Laredo.

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

125

Opinion of the Court.

The City Council of Laredo, on December f5, 1931, enacted an ordinance fixing gas rates which included a rate
of 40 cents per 1000 cubic feet for domestic consumption,
with a provision for a discount of 10 per cent. on payment
of bills within ten days, the ordinance to become effective
on January 1, 1932. The rate had previously been 75
cents per m. c. f. with a 10 per cent. discount for payment within ten days. The Texas Border Gas Company, which was supplying natural gas to consumers in
Laredo, filed an appeal with the Railroad Commission
and posted the required supersedeas bond in accordance
with the provisions of Articles 6058 and 6059 of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas (1925).' The condition of
1"Art.

6058. Appeal from city control.-When a city government

has order,,d any existing rate reduced, the gas utility affected by
such order may appeal to the Commission by filing with it on such
terms and conditions as the Commission may direct, a petition and
bond to review the decision, regulation, ordinance, or order of the
city, town or municipality. Upon such appeal being taken the Commission shall set a hearing and may make such order or decision
in regard to the matter involved therein as it may deem just and
reasonable. The Commission shall hear such appeal de novo. Whenever any local distributing company or concern, whose rates have
been fixed by any municipal government, desires a change of any
of its rates, rentals or charges, it shall make its application to the
municipal government where such utility is located and such municipal government shall determine said application within sixty days
after presentation unless the determination thereof may be longer
deferred by agreement. If the municipal government should reject
such application or fail or refuse to act on it within said sixty days,
then the utility may appeal to the Commission as herein provided.
But said Commission shall determine the matters involved in any
such appeal within sixty days after the filing by such utility of such
appeal with said Commission or such further time as such utility
shall in writing agree to, but the rates fixed by such municipal government shall remain in full force and effect until ordered changed by
the Commission.
"Art. 6059. Appeal from orders.-If any gas utility or other party
at interest be dissatisfied with the decision of any rate, classification,

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

the bond was that the Company should refund to the
City for the benefit of consumers any excess of rates collected "over and above the rates and charges that shall
be finally determined to be a fair and reasonable return
upon the value of its property used and useful in supplying natural gas and natural gas service to the City of
Laredo."
Prior to the hearing before the Commission, the South
Texas Gas Company, which owned and operated the
transmission properties and transported the gas sold to
the Texas Border Gas Company at the Laredo city gate,
was made a party to the proceeding. The Texas Border
Gas Company applied to the City for an increase of rates
and, because of the City's failure to act, took an appeal
to the Commission as the statute provided. The two
appeals were consolidated. The United Gas Public Service Company, a Delaware corporation, entered its :3)pearance on both appeals alleging that it had acq L d the
properties of both companies. The Commission, y order
of June 13, 1933, fixed a rate of 55 cents per m. c. f. with
a penalty of 10 per cent. for non-payment within ten
rule, charge, order, act or regulation adopted by the Commission,
such dissatisfied utility or party may file a petition setting forth the
particular cause of objection thereto in a court of competent jurisdiction in Travis County against the Commission as defendant. Said
action shall have precedence over all other causes on the docket of a
different nature and shall be tried and determined as other civil
causes in said court. Either party to said action may have the right
of appeal; and said appeal shall be at once returnable to the appellate court, and said action so appealed shall have precedence in said
appellate court of all causes of a different character therein pending.
If the court be in session at the time such right of action accrues,
the suit may be filed during such term and stand ready for trial after
ten days notice. In all trials under this article the burden of proof
shall rest upon the plaintiff, who must show by clear and satisfactory
evidence that the rates, regulations, orders, classifications, acts or

charges complained of are unreasonable and unjust to it or them."

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

days, and the order was made retroactive to January 1,
1932. 2 P. U. R. (N. S.) 503.
The United Gas Public Service Company then brought
suit in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Texas to restrain the enforcement of
the Commission's order. On July 26, 1933, the State of
Texas, the members of the Commission and the City instituted the present suit in the District Court of Travis
County in the nature of an appeal under Article 6059 1
for the purpose of protecting the jurisdiction of the state
court and of enforcing the Commission's order if determined to be valid. The state court thereupon stayed all
proceedings by the Commission, or by the officials of the
State and City, to enforce the Commission's order until
the determination of the suit. On August 1, 1933, the
District Court of the United States composed of three
judges, 28 U. S. C. 380, stayed all proceedings in that
court pending the final determination of the suit in the
state court. Subject to the order of the state court, the
Company has continued to charge its 75 cent rate.
The trial in the state court resulted in a judgment on
April 24, 1934, which sustained the Commission's order
of June 13, 1933, except so far as its rate was made retroactive to January 1, 1932, that part of the order being held
invalid. The Company then appealed to the Court of
Civil Appeals, which rendered its judgment on October
30, 1935, reforming the judgment of the trial court so as
to declare the retroactive portion of the Commission's
order valid and enforceable and affirming the judgment
as thus modified. 89 S. W. (2d) 1094. The Supreme
Court of the State refused writ of error.
A motion to dismiss the appeal taken to this Court from
the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals was denied.
301 U. S. 667. Upon hearing, the Court ordered reargu'See Note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

ment, noting that it especially desired to hear the parties
on the state of the evidence as to the effect of the application of the Commission's rate to the years 1932 and
1933, that is, as to the revenues and expenses for those
years on that basis, and as to the effect upon the rights of
the appellant, with respect to those years, of the bond
given on its appeal to the Commission. 302 U. S. 647.
Reargument has been had accordingly.
Appellant, invoking the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution, contends that in the state proceedings it has
been denied procedural due process and also that the
prescribed rate is confiscatory.
The proceedings before the Commission and its rulings.
The Commission gave a full hearing. It received voluminous evidence offered by appellant and the City as
to every phase of the controversy and their counsel were
fully heard in argument. The opinion of the Commission
reviews the history of the utility from the time that the
Texas Border Gas Company received its franchise from
the City in 1909. The Commission found the interrelation of the companies concerned and that the present
appellant, which had become the owner of the properties
of the former operating companies, was itself a unit of
the United Gas System. It was in view of the "interrelated company operation and ownership," that the gathering, transmission and distribution properties used and useful in serving the city of Laredo were valued as a combined property. As consumers in a number of other communities within the Laredo area were also served, it became necessary to allocate to Laredo its appropriate proportion. Methods of allocation were submitted by the
respective parties and the Commission adopted a weighted
average per cent., which had been taken by the City's
engineer as an approximate mean between two percentages used by the Company's engineer, as coming the

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

123

closest to a fair and correct allocation. Evidence of historical cost and of reproduction cost new less depreciation
was submitted. The Company's appraisal on the basis of
reproduction cost new, less depreciation, was $1,231,601.
The appraisal of the City's engineer on the same basis
was $810,698. The City adduced evidence showing the
depreciated historical cost as of July 31, 1932, to be
$709,991.23.
The Commission for the purpose of its valuation divided the properties into three groups, (a) gathering system, (b) transmission system, and (c) distribution system. The Commission stated and considered the
respective appraisals of each group. While the City included an allowance of $124,668 asjhe depreciated cost of
that portion of the transmission lines extending from
Pescadito Junction to the Jennings Field, a distance of
about 26 miles, the Commission found "that this line was
used only one day during the twelve months' period ending July 31, 1932, in transporting gas to Laredo," and
further that "the condition of this line is such that it
could neither safely nor profitably transport the necessary
volume of gas to the City." The Commission concluded
that, if the Company's properties were reproduced, that
section of the line would not be necessary.
The Commission then considered the questions of working capital, of going concern value and of accrued depreciation. After referring to the respective estimates, the
Commission decided that "the over-all per cent. condition" of the pioperties was 78 per cent.
The Commission's conclusion was that the total "present fair value" of the properties was $885,000. The Commission said:
"In arriving at a decision and making an order herein
that is deemed by the Commission to be just and reasonable, we have carefully and fully considered all the evidence pre~ented and all the facts and circumstances re533830 -3S-9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

flected by the record herein; and upon giving due consideration to all the elements of value inhering in the
property involved in this proceeding, have valued the
Company's properties as an operating concern, with business attached; have made ample allowance for materials
and supplies, working cash, and general overheads; and
have included in such value the Pescadito-Jennings Trans-,
mission Line and the West Jennings Gathering System
(although the record clearly discloses that these last two
named property items are neither being used, nor are they
necessary as standby equipment), and we find the present fair value of the properties of the Company used, and
useful in the gathering, transporting and distributing of
natural gas within the City of Laredo, Texas, to be in
the sum of $885,000."
The Commission fixed the annual depreciation rate
which should be allowed at 3 per cent. The Commission
also found that an annual rate of return of 7 per cent.
on the present value of the properties was adequate.
With respect to "available revenue," the Commission
said that the Company had presented a "setup" of operating revenues and expenses for the twelve months'
period ending July 31, 1932, only. On the other hand,
the City had presented a similar "setup" covering the
years ending June 30, 1929, 1930 and 1931, and for the
year ending July 31, 1932-a period of four years.. The
Commission was of the opinion that the one year ending
July 31, 1932, should not be taken as a test period. It
was believed to be a matter of common knowledge that
"from a general business standpoint the year 1932 was
the worst year since 1929." The City's exhibit was deemed
to show that the fiscal year 1931 was also subnormal, and
the Commission concluded that neither that year, nor
an average of those 'two years, should be taken as an
adequate test. The Commission also thought that it
would be unfair to the Company to take the year 1930

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

or an average of the three years, 1930, 1931 and 1932, as
it appeared that the year 1930 was the best year in point
of gross revenues that the Company had experienced
since 1928. On the whole, the Commission thought that
justice would be done if an average of revenues and expenses for the four fiscal years, 1929, 1930, 1931 and 1932,
should be taken as the test period for the computation
upon which a fair return should be predicated.
It had been stipulated by the parties at the outset that
a rate of five cents per m. c. f. was a fair and reasonable
price of gas at the well. While the Commission did not
make specific findings with respect to revenues and exlenses for the years which it took as a basis, it did reject
certain allowances for which the Company contended.
As to an allowance of a gathering charge in relation to
gas purchased from the Carolina-Texas field, the gathering lines in which were the property of an affiliate, the
Commission allowed a charge of one-half of one per cent.
instead of the one per cent. which the Company sought.
With respect to items not particularized by the Commission, we think that it substantially appears from its opinion that the Commission, save as to the items disallowed,
accepted the City's exhibit which covered the revenues
and expenses for the four-year period and stated separately the items contained therein which were deemed to
be questionable.
The Commission found the rate, for all domestic uses,
of 55 cents per m. c. f., the minimum bill per user per
month to be one dollar and the penalty for non-payment
within ten days to be 10 per cent., to be "just and reasonable." The Commission found that its application would
produce "a net return in excess of seven per cent (7%)
per annum on the present fair value of the properties,
after provision for operations and reserve for depreciation." The Commission ordered that the rate should be
effective from and after January 1, 1932, and that there

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

should be refunded to the City of Laredo for the benefit
of domestic gas consumers the difference between the
amount collected under the existing rate and the amount
that would have been due by consumers under the Commission's order.
The proceedings in the District Court of Travis County.-The trial was essentially de novo. It was begun in
March, 1934, and was had before a jury, a motion by the
appellants to have the jury discharged and the cause determined by the court being overruled. The entire record
before the Commission was placed in evidence and additional testimony was introduced as to property values,
depreciation reserve accrual, revenues, expenses, rates of
return, etc. It appears that the evidence was brought
as near as possible to the time of trial. The evidence as
to revenues and expenses which appellant adduced again
related to the year ending July 31, 1932, and the years
1932 and 1933, and the appellees introduced evidence for
the four-year period, to which they had addressed their
computations before the Commission, and also for the
year 1933.
At the close of the evidence, appellant moved for a
peremptory instruction in its favor and also for the suspension of the Commission's order for the years 1932 and
.,1933. These motions were overruled. Appellant then
moved to have the case submitted to the jury on "special
issues" and not upon a "special charge." The court
stated that in its view its charge was on "special issue"
and hence complied with the request. The appellant then
moved to submit to the jury certain special issues which
were separately stated; that is, that the jury should make
separate findings as to the values of component parts of
appellant's property during the years 1932 and 1933, respectively, also as to the amount of the necessary materials and supplies and cash working capital, and the
amount which should be allowed for "going value," and

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

as to the average cost of gas at the well mouth and the
proper annual allowance for the depreciation reserve.
These requests were refused.
The trial court submitted to the jury a single special
issue as follows:
"Do you find that the order of the Railroad Commission of Texas bearing date June 13, 1933, providing for
a fifty-five cent gas rate to residential consumers within
the city of Laredo, Texas, under the facts introduced in
evidence before you, is unreasonable and unjust as to
defendant, United Gas Public Service Company. Answer this question 'yes' or 'no'."
The court prefaced that submission with the following
definitions and instructions:
That by "fair return" was meant that the appellant
was entitled to earn a rate "on the present fair value of
its property which it employs for the convenience of the
public equal to that generally being made at the same
time within the same general part of the country upon investments in other business undertakings which are attended by like risks and uncertainties." That the rate
of return should be reasonably sufficient "to assure confidence in the financial soundness of the utility and should
be adequate under efficient and economical management
to maintain and support its credit and enable it to raise
money necessary for the proper discharge of its duties."
That by "fair value" was meant "the reasonable worth
of the property at this time that is being used and useful
in the public service." That by "used and useful" was
meant that it embraces all the property "actually being
used" in that service and also such property as was reasonably necessary to permit "continuous and efficient
service."
That by "operation expenses" was meant such expenses
as were incurred in the operation of appellant's property
in furnishing gas to the people of Laredo.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

That by "annual depreciation" was meant the amount
per annum that was reasonably necessary to compensate
for the wearing out and any necessary replacements and
retirements of appellant's property.
That by "reproduction cost new" was meant "the cost
to the owner under the conditions which may reasonably
be expected to exist if the property were to be reproduced
new."
That by "going value" was meant the added value of
appellant's property as a whole, used and useful for serving the City, over the sum of the values of its component
parts, by reason of the fact "that it is an operating, assembled and established property, functioning with a
trained personnel, a co-ordinated plant and property, with
customers attached, and its business established."
Referring to the findings of the Commission, and the
transcripts of evidence and exhibits, which were before
the Commission and had been introduced in evidence,
the court told the jury that the same might be considered
for the purpose of assisting the jury in determining
whether the Commission's order was unreasonable and
unjust and for no other purpose. The court concluded
its charge with the following instructions:
"You are instructed that the burden of proof is upon
the defendant, United Gas Public Service Company, to
show by clear and satisfactory evidence that the rate pro.mulgated by the Railroad Commission in its said order
of June 13, 1933, is unreasonable and unjust as to it.
"You are further instructed that in determining your
answer to said issue in the light of all the evidence introduced in this case the defendant, United Gas Public
Service Copnpany, is entitled to receive a fair return at this
time on the present fair value of its property that is
used and useful in the public service after first deducting
all necessary operating expenses and a fair and reasonable
amount for the annual depreciation of said property, and

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

that in considering what is a fair value of said property
you will take into consideration all elements of value
that have been introduced in evidence before you, including reproduction cost new of said property and the amount
of going value (if any) that inheres in said property.
"By 'unreasonable and unjust' is meant that the rate
prescribed and adopted in the said order of the Railroad
Commission was so low as to have not provided for a
fair return upon the fair value of defendant's property
used and useful in supplying the service furnished by the
United Gas Public Service Company to the inhabitants
within the city of Laredo, Texas."
Appellant took exceptions to the court's charge and to
the refusal of its requests.
The jury answered the special issue in the negative.
Appellant's motion for judgment non obstante veredicto
was denied and judgment was entered.
The court in its judgment ruled that the provision in
the Commission's order requiring the refund of the excess
collections over the Commission's rate was a separable
part, and as the court was of the opinion that the Commission's retroactive application of its rate to January 1,
1932, and the provision for a refund, were invalid, that
part of the Commission's order was set aside without
prejudice to the right of the City to recover the excess
collections, should that provision be sustained on appeal.
The judgment then enjoined appellant from making any
charge in excess of the Commission's rate, with direction
for supersedeas pending appeal upon the filing of a
described bond. A motion for a new trial, in which
appellant again stated its objections to the court's rulings,
was denied.
The ruling of the Court of Civil Appeals.-The appellate court reached the conclusion that appellant had not
only failed to establish its claim for reversal, and for
judgment in its favor, but that "*,hen viewed in the light

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

of the presumption in favor of the validity of the Commission's rate order, and of the quantum and character of
proof required to overcome such presumption, the evidence
adduced was insufficient, as a matter of law, to show that
the 550 rate order was either unjust and unreasonable or
confiscatory." In that view, the court added, "all questions of practice," presented by appellant, "go out of the
case."
The court noted the fact that the Commission had
reluctantly included in the valuation of the property the
items of $124,688, representing the Pescadito-Jennings
transmission pipe line, and also had "included the -West
Jennings Gathering System at a value of $10,342",
although the Commission found that these "two property
items are neither used nor are they necessary as standby
equipment." The court also said that there was evidence
before both the trial court and the Commission which
tended to show "the fair value of appellant's property
to be about $700,000; and that a 2% annual accrual for
depreciation would be fair and reasonable." Referring
to the evidence as to operating revenues and expenditures,
the court set forth tables based on the computations of
an expert accountant of the appellees showing average
net revenues for the four-year period and the year 1933.
These calculations were on the basis of appellant's existing 75 cent rate. The court thus stated the criterion which
it applied in overruling appellant's contentions:
"The rule is settled that rates are not based upon the
results of business of any one year alone, but upon what
is estimated as being the average business over a period of
years; the future being gauged as nearly as possible by
the past experience. . . . It is also the rule that only
actual experience under the rate complained of can furnish any real criterion or guide as to the effect of the rate
on the business; and that this experience should be obtained by a practical test for such a period of time as

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

will under the facts of the particular business determine
the matters which are of doubtful or uncertain influence.
In absence of an actual test of the rate, the court on appeal must resolve all doubts against the complaining
party; pare down valuations unsparingly; and the rate
must appear to be clearly confiscatory, or unjust and unreasonable before the court should by injunction restraih
its enforcement in advance of actual experience of the
practical results of the rate. And while the equal protection, the due course, and the due process clauses of the
fundamental laws of both state and nation guard against
the taking of, or compelling of the use of private property for public service without just compensation, still
they do not assure the public utility the right under all
conditions and circumstances to have a return upon the
value of the property so used. If actual experience for a
proper period of time under the rate complained of should
reveal sufficient reasons, the rate order may then be
changed through proper channels."
Proceeding on this principle, the court said:
"In the instant case appellant has continuously charged
and collected the 750 rate; hence no actual test has been
made under the lower 550 rate. An actual test of the
lower rate might have resulted in a larger return by bringing about an increase in appellant's business, and manifestly this court would not be warranted in holding that
the lower rate was either confiscatory, or unjust and un-,
reasonable, as a matter of law, in advance of an actual
test of the rate; . . . So when the property valuation
is pared down to this lowest valuation (about $700,000),
and doubtful items of expenses are deducted, the net revenues received by appellant under the 750 rate for the
year ending December 31, 1933, would afford more than
a 11% return. And calculations based on the $700,000
valuation and the estimated difference in revenues between the 55¢ rate and the 75 rate, show a return of more

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

than 7% for the year 1933. But even if the lower rate
did not or would not yield a return of 7% for the year
1933, this court would not be warranted in enjoining the
enforcement of the rate, because the test period was too
short, no actual test was made under the lower rate and
the undisputed evidence showed the year to be
abnormal."
In concluding its opinion, the court held that the trial
court erred in its ruling that the retroactive provision of
the Commission's order was invalid. The appellate court
said that on the appeal to the Commission to review the
City's ordinance, the Commission was authorized to suspend the rate fixed by the City and to require the utility
to give a bond "ou. such terms and conditions as the Commission may direct." The trial court had refused to receive the bond in evidence but it appeared in the record.
The appellate court quoted its condition and noted that
the supersedeas bond filed on appeal to that court was
similarly conditioned. The court held that the Commission had the power upon determining that the rate
fixed by the City's ordinance was unreasonable to "substitute its own just and reasonable rate therefor, and to
make it effective as of date of the city ordinance rate for
which it was substituted."
The Court of Civil Appeals then entered judgment
sustaining the retrospective and refund provision of the
Commission's order and affirming the judgment of the
trial court as thus modified.
First.- The question of proceduraldue process.-There
is no ground for holding that appellant did not have a
fair hearing before the Commission. Appellant's evidence was received and weighed; its arguments were
heard and considered. The Commission made findings
as to the value of appellant's property, the permissible
allowance for depreciation and the rate of return. The
amounts of revenues and expenses for the four years

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

which the Commission took as a basis sufficiently appear,
as already stated, from the City's exhibit to which the
Commission referred in its opinion. The estimated
amount of revenue at the Commission's rate appears from
a simple calculation, applying the rate of return to the
rate base after the annual allowance for depreciation. In
the Commission's procedure there was no lack of the due
process required by the Federal Constitution. Railroad
Commission of California v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co.,
302 U. S. 388; Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 304, 305; West Ohio Gas Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n (No. 1), 294 U. S. 63, 70.
With respect to the proceedings in the state courts,
appellant urges that the case was not tried and determined
as required by state law, and we are referred to the state
statutes and the decisions of the Texas courts as to the
proper procedure in the trial court and on appeal. It is
not our function, in reviewing a judgment of the state
court, to decide local questions. We are concerned solely
with asserted federal rights. The final judgment of the
state court in the instant case must be taken as determining that the procedure actually adopted satisfied all state
requirements. John v. Paullin, 231 U. S. 583, 585; Lee v.
Central of Georgia Ry. Co., 252 U. S. 109, 110; Central
Union Co. v. Edwardsville, 269 U. S. 190, 194, 195.
As to the requirement of due process under the Federal
Constitution, appellant contends that it was denied the
independent judicial judgment upon the facts and law to
which it was entitled. See Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben
Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287; Bluefield Water Works Co.
v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 679; State Corporation Comm'n v. Wichita Gas Co., 290 U. S. 561, 569; St.
Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 38, 49.
The proceeding in the state court undoubtedly purported
to afford an independent judicial review. As the Court
of Civil Appeals of Texas said in the instant case, the

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

trial of the issues whether the rate was unreasonable or
confiscatory was "de novo." Appellant itself recognizes
that the trial "was essentially de novo, new and full testimony being introduced as to property value, depreciation
reserve accrual, revenues, expenses, rates of return, etc."
Appellant's evidence was received by the trial court and
appellant's contentions were heard. The question whether
due process in the court's procedure was accorded thus
comes to the mode of trial; that is, (1) the propriety of
a trial by jury, and (2) the manner in which the issues
were submitted to the jury.
We do not fail to appreciate the difficulty in presenting
to a jury the complicated issues in a rate case, especially
where, as here, the evidence is voluminous, embracing the
conflicting valuations of experts and a host of details in
appraisals and in accounts of operations, with elaborate
tabulations. Even in trials of such cases without a jury
the service of a special master for the analysis of the
details in evidence with respect to values and return has
been found advisable. We have had abundant occasion to
become familiar with the difficulty of such determinations.
But we are not dealing with questions of policy as to procedure. - The State is entitled to determine the procedure
of its courts, so long as it provides the requisite due process. And on that question we have never held that it is
beyond the power of the State to provide for the trial by
a jury of questions of fact because they are complicated.
Cases at law triable by a jury in the federal courts often
involve most difficult and complex questions, as, for
example, in patent cases at law presenting issues of
validity and infringement. *See Tucker v. Spalding, 13
Wall. 453, 455; Keyes v. Grant, 118 U. S. 25, 36, 37;
Royer v. Schultz Belting Co., 135 U. S. 319, 325; Coupe v.
Royer, 155 U. S. 565, 578, 579. Most difficult questions of
fact in protracted trials, with much conflicting expert
testimony, are not infrequently presented in criminal
cases triable by jury. The issue of life or death may be

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

decided in such a case. We have held that a State may
modify a trial by jury or abolish it altogether, Walker v.
Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581;
Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, but never that the timehonored method of resolving questions of fact by a jury
must be abandoned by a State under compulsion of the
Federal Constitution. And we find no warrant for such
a ruling now.
The question remains as to the manner in which the
instant case was submitted to the jury. The special issue
was submitted whether the Commission's rate was "unreasonable and unjust as to defendant." This submission,
under the court's instruction in relation to the import of
the phrase "unreasonable and unjust," covered, as appellant conceded at this bar, the issue whether the rate was
confiscatory. Appellant did not ask to have the issue
of confiscation submitted by the use of that precise term.
The question then is as t6 the denial of the submission
of the particular issues which appellant requested and
as to the character of the instructions given by the trial
court.
The special issues which appellant requested were for
findings as to the value of component parts of appellant's
property during the years 1932 and 1933 and as to the
amounts necessary to cover material and supplies, working capital, going value, and certair. other items. It will
be observed that these special issues did not embrace all
the questions which the jury should consider, as for
example, the questions of operating revenues, operating expenses and return for the period to which the evidence before the Court appropriately related and not simply for the
years 1932 and 1933. If trial by jury was permissible, as
we hold it was, we cannot say-putting aside questions of
correct practice under the state law not reviewable herethat appellant was entitled under the Federal Constitution
to have special issues framed and submitted to the jury,
much less that appellant could demand that the particu-

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

lar items it mentioned should be singled out and specially
passed upon. We consider that question in the light of
the total power which the State possesses to provide for
jury trials, and for the manner of conducting them, and
not with respect to any alleged limitations imposed by
state statutes. See Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674,
683.
We have stated at some length, and need not repeat,
the general instructions given by the trial court. The
jury were instructed as to the right of appellant to receive
a fair return on the fair value of its property that is used
and useful in the public service and that the jury should
take into consideration all elements of value that had
been introduced in evidence, including the reproduction
cost new of the property and the amount of going value,
if any, that inhered in it. The court deflned the terms
that it used, such as "fair return," "fair value," "used and
useful," "operation expenses," "annual depreciation,"
"reproduction cost new" and "going value," and the court
explained what would constitute an adequate rate of
return. No instructions were given which could be taken
in any sense to conflict with appellant's federal right;
on the cbntrary, the jury, if it duly followed the
instructions, could not but enforce that right.
Appellant, while objecting to the charge upon grounds
that are not impressive, did not submit and request amplified instructions which might have aided the jury's consideration. Appellant was apparently content to object
to the pertinent instructions that were given, and to a
general charge, and to stand upon its limited requests
as to special issues.
Upon such a record we are unable to hold that there
'was a denial of federal right so far as procedural due
process is concerned.
Second.-The question of confiscation.-We have said
that our inquiry in rate cases coming here from a state

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

court "is whether the action of the state officials in the
totality of its consequences is consistent with the enjoyment by the regulated utility of a revenue something
higher than the line of confiscation." West Ohio Gas Co.
v. Public Utilities Comm'n (No. 1), supra. This Court
will review the findings of fact by a state court (1)
where a federal right has been denied as the result of a
finding shown by the record to be without evidence to
support it, and (2) where a conclusion of law as to a
federal right and findings of fact are so intermingled as to
make it necessary, in order to pass upon the federal quc tion, to analyze the facts. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co
v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593;
Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Conley, 236 U. S. 605, 609,
610; Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389,
394. We make that analysis, not to determine issues of
fact arising on conflicting testimony or inferences, and
thus to usurp the function of the state court as a trier
of the facts, but to perform our own proper function in
deciding the question of law arising upon the findings
which the evidence permits.. Kansas City Southern Ry.
Co. v. Albers Commission Co., supra.
Here, the issues of fact were determined in the trial
court. Counsel agree that under the state practice the
Court of Civil Appeals had no authority to make findings
of fact. "Where the evidence is without conflict, it may
render judgment. But where there is any conflict in the
evidence on a material issue, it has no authority to substitute its findings of fact for those of the trial court."
Post v. State, 106 Tex. 500, 501; 171 S. W. 707. The
Court of Civil Appeals held not only that appellant had
failed to make good its claim that it was entitled to judgment in its favor but that, having regard to the presumption in favor of the Commission's rate order and the clear
and satisfactory proof required to overcome such pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

sumption, appellant's evidence was insufficient as matter
of law to show that the Commission's rate was confiscatory. The reasoning of the Court of Civil Appeals was
directed to the decision of those legal questions. Upon
the issue of confiscation, the judgment of the trial court
was affirmed and thus its finding of fact was not disturbed.
Separate questions are presented (1) as to the value
of appellant's property and (2) as to its return from operations. As to the first, the Commission found the value
to be $885,000. But the Commission stated that this
valuation included property which was neither used nor
useful. If it be assumed that the Commission in the
exercise of its legislative discretion might include that
property in fixing a "reasonable rate," still appellant
would not be entitled to its inclusion on the issue of
confiscation. While the evidence as to value was conflicting, we are unable to conclude that there was not
adequate evidence to sustain a finding that the total
property used and useful, after making deductions for the
portions not of that sort, was worth not more than
$750,000.
Appellant complains that the Court of Civil Appeals
based its conclusion upon a valuation of "$700,000" which
appellant contends is inadmissible, and that the appellate
court misapplied the rule as to the burden of proof in
holding that the value must be "pared down unsparingly"
to that amount. But we must distinguish ."between what
was said and what was done," between "dictum and decision," between reasoning and conclusion. Dayton
Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S.
290, 298, 302. What the appellate court did was to affirm the judgment of the trial court an~1 if, as we think,
a valuation of appell.nt's property at $750,000 would
have adequate support in the evidence, we need go no
further in relation to that part of the case.

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

Opinion of the Court.

With respect to return from operations, the crucial
question is whether appellant was entitled to have the
rate for the future fixed with sole regard to the result of
operations in the years 1932 and 1933, as appellant contends, or it was permissible to fix the rate upon a consideration of the returns for a number of years, that is,
for the four years prior to July 31, 1932, as taken by the
Commission, or for that period and the years 1932 and
1933, as shown by the evidence before the trial court.
The Commission held its hearing in the latter part of
1932 and made its order in June, 1933. Apart from the
question raised by the retrospective feature of its order,
we think it manifest that in fixing its rate for the future
the Commission was not limited to the results of operations for the year ending July, 1932. Not only was that
but a single year, but the Commission regarded it as an
abnormal year and the propriety of its ruling in that respect is supported by common knowledge of economic
conditions at that time. Similarly, the trial court, sitting
in the spring of 1934, was not bound to limit its vision to
the results of 1932 and 1933. What would happen in the
future was necessarily a matter of prophecy. The Commission's rate had not been put into effect and in estimating what would be the consequence of the requirement
the court was entitled to a reasonable basis for prediction,
especially in view of a contemplated emergence from a
period of extreme depression. As the Court of Civil
Appeals observed, the way was open to the appellant to
seek a change in the rate on proof of actual experience.
Of course, appellant was entitled to take its chances on
appellate review of the trial court's judgment, but it cannot complain of the delay incident to. that review and its
case must be judged as it stood before the trial court. We
hold that there was no error in taking into consideration
the results of appellant's operations for the years 1929 to
1933, inclusive, according to the evidence produced in the
52333*-,'8n-10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., concurring.

303 U. S.

trial court, and in determining the issue of confiscation
in the light of the average return thus shown.
Appellees introduced evidence tending to show that
appellant's operating revenues, calculated on the basis of
the 55 cent rate and after deducting the operating expenses deemed to be allowable and the annual allowance
for depreciation, for the years ending June 30, 1929, 1930,
and 1931, and July 31, 1932, yielded net amounts of
$106,815.36, $123,293.02, $91,554.04, and $48,556.88, respectively, and for the year 1933, $46,371.85. Appellant
contends that on the basis of the 55 cent rate its net operating revenue for 1932 would have been but $10,086.25,
and for 1933, $18,408.39. We do not think it necessary,
so far as concerns the validity of the Commission's rate
in its prospective application, to extend this opinion by
stating in detail the contentions pro and con as to these
estimates, questions which largely relate to the permissible allowances for operating expenses. We are satisfied
that if we consider the results of appellant's operations for
the entire period, 1929 to 1933, the evidence was adequate
to support the judgment of the trial court.
Third.-With respect to the question of the validity
of that part of the Commission's order which made its
rate retroactive to January 1, 1932, considered in the light
of the evidence relating to the intervening period and of
the bond given on the appeal to the Commission from
the City's ordinance, this Court is equally divided and
the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals in that relation is accordingly affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED took no part in the consideration and

decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, concurring.

Although I concur in sustaining the judgment of the
court below, I do not agree that the rights of this Delaware
corporation doing business in Texas are derived from the

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

BLACK,

J., concurring.

Fourteenth Amendment' or that the Fourteenth Amendment deprives Texas of its constitutional power to determine the reasonableness of intra-state utility rates in
that State.
Even applying the Fourteenth Amendment under the
prevailing doctrine, I do not believe that this Court
(apart from procedural questions) is called upon to do
more than determine the sole question of confiscation.
Any indication by this Court of the value of the company's
property will unjustifiably affect and" control subsequent
valuations for rate making purposes.
The record discloses a striking absence of satisfactory
evidence of the actual cost of the company's properties;
its funded indebtedness; the actual investments of stockholders in the company; profits in past years; and the
percentage of past profits to actual investment. These
matters have important bearing upon the issue of confiscation. There is evidence that only a part of the company's depreciation reserve, accumulated over and above
expenditures for repairs and property maintenance,
reaches approximately $500,000-or over 40% to 70%
of the various estimated values of all the company's
assets. In addition appellant has not shown beyond a
reasonable doubt that there is an actual investment of
stockholders-over and above the amount of borrowed
capital-which could be confisct ted.3 Appellant has obviously failed to establish all the elements necessary to
prove beyond a reasonable doubt 4 that the rate fixed
by the State will result in confiscation of its property.
'See dissent filed in Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson,
ante, p. 83.
2 See McCard!e v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S. 400; McCart v.
Indianapolis Water Co., 302 U. S. 419; 13 F. Supp. 110; 89 F.
(2d) 522, 525, 526.
'Cf. Chicago & G. T. Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339; see
dissent in McCart case, supra.
'Cf. San Diego Land Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739, 754;
Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270.

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., concurring.

303 U. S.

EXPENSES.-The record shows that appellant is one of many corporate associates and affiliates
connected with the Electric Bond and Share Company
and the United Gas System. Practically all operating
expenses appeared as-inter-company charges among these
associates, affiliates, etc. Under these circumstances confiscation cannot be established merely by proof that the
books of appellant show alleged expenditures purporting
to have been made by or through its affiliates, associates,
etc. The strong presumption of the validity of these
rates-fixed by a State-can be overcome only by proof
that each expenditure, alleged to have been made or
incurred by or through an associate or affiliate, was in
fact so made or incurred and was fair and reasonable.
Such proof was not made in this case. As an illustration,
a witness testifying for the City said that it was impossible
for him to ascertain proper operating expenses for the
year 1933, because his examination was confined to the
South Texas Border Gas Company and the South Texas
Gas Company "and all I saw in support of these items
was inter-company invoices, andI was not able or had no
way of determining whether items were proper or not."
Since the major part of appellant's income is absorbed
by associated companies in the name of "operating expenses" and by intercorporate transactions, the operations
and expenses of these associates, affiliates, etc., are brought
within the field of inquiry. Referring to intercorporate
transactions of holding companies, subsidiaries, associates,
affiliates, etc., this Court has said:
"It is urged that as these averments were uncontradicted they constitute, when taken with the facts previously stated, a prima facie case for the reasonableness of
the rate charged. This might well be true were it not for
the fact of unity of ownership and control of the pipe line
and the distribution system. An averment of negotiation and effort to procure a reduction in the wholesale rate
OPERATING

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

BLACK,

J., concurring.

means little in the light of the fact that the negotiators
are both acting in the same interest,-that of the holding
company which controls both. All of these facts so averred in the pleadings would be far more persuasive with
respect to the propriety of the rate if the parties were
independent of each other and dealing at arm's length.
Where, however, they constitute but a single interest and
involve the embarkation of the total capital in what is
in effect one enterprise, the elements of double profit and
of the: reasonableness of inter-company charges must
necessarily be the subject of inquiry and scrutiny before
the question as to the lawfulness of the retail rate based
thereon can be satisfactorily answered.
". ..
The argument is made that the proofs demanded by the Commission will involve an extensive and
unnecessary valuation of the pipe-line company's property and an analysis of its business, and that this burden
should not be thrown upon appellant. Whether this is
so we need not now decide. It is enough to say that in
view of the relations of the parties, and the power implicit
therein arbitrarily to fix and maintain costs as respects
the distributing company which do not represent the true
value of the service rendered, the state authority is entitled to a fair showing of the reasonableness of such
costs, although this may involve a presentation of evidence which would not be required in the case of parties
dealing at arm's length and in the general and open market, subject to the usual safeguards of bargaining and
competition." '
'Western Distributing Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 285 U. S. 119,
126, 127.
"Purchases are frequently made by. a member or members of a
system from affiliates or subsidiaries, and with comparative infrequency from strangers. At times obscurity or confusion has been
born of such relations. There is widespread belief that transfers
between affiliates or subsidiaries complicate the task of rate-making
for regulatory commissions and impede the search for truth. Buyer

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., col'curring.

303 IT.S.

Not only did appellant fail to prove the reasonableness
of its intercompany dealings, but it did not-as requested
in open court-produce a full list of salaries paid by its
associates, affiliates, etc. It is true that evidence did show
that some of the officers of associates, affiliates, etc., received from $65,000 to $100,000 a year but there was no
proof of the reasonableness of such salaries or of their
effect upon appellant's local gas distribution expenses.
This Court has previously declared the importance of
salaries in determining the question of confiscation in
Chicago & G. T. Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345.
There it was said:
"Of what do these operating expenses consist? Are
they made up partially of extravagant salaries; fifty to
one hundred thousand dollars to the president, and in
like proportion to subordinate officers? Surely, before
the courts are called upon to adjudge an act of the legislature fixing . . . maximum . . .rates for railroad companies to be unconstitutional, . . . they should be fully
advised as to what is done with the receipts and earnings
of the company. . . . While the protection of vested
rights of property is a supreme duty of the courts, it has
not come to this, that the legislative power rests subservient to the discretion of any railroad corporation
which may, by exorbitant and unreasonable salaries, or
in some other improper way, transfer its earnings into
what it is pleased to call 'operating expenses.' "
When a public utility chooses to pay out a large part
of its "operating expenses" to corporate associates, affiliates, etc., these payments might conceivably be used to
and seller in such circumstance&may not be dealing at arm's length,
and the price agreed upon between them may be a poor criterion
of value. Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of
Ohio, 292 U. S. 290, 295; Western Distributing Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n of Kansas, 285 U. S. 119; Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone
Co., 282 U. S. 133." American Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. United
States, 299 U. S. 232, 239.

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

BILACK,

J., concurring.

drain the operating company's income and to inflate the
"operating expenses." Inflated operating expenses inevitably lead to inflated rates. Since affiliates, associates,
etc., do not ordinarily deal at "arm's length" appellant
had the burden of proving the fairness and reasonableness of all expenditures made or charged as inter-company
transactions.
DUE PROCESS AND TRIAL BY JURY.-Appellant contended in the court below that "the submission of this
case . . . to a jury will deprive this defendant of that
character of hearing and trial contemplated under the
Constitution and- laws of the United States and of the
Constitution and laws of thie State of Texas." Appellant
here further insists that over appellant's protest, the court
below did submit the cause to a jury "Despite the recognized inability of such a body to deal adequately with
p:oof of that nature . . . , despite appellant's vigorous
protest and efforts to extricate itself from this
situation . . ."
The Constitution of the United States does not prohibit
trial by jury, but the Seventh Amendment, judicially construed as a limitation on the federal government,'
provides:
"In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by
jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury shall
be otherwise reexamined in any Court of the United
States, than according to the rules of the common
law."
This Court said in 1855' that "The words, 'due process
of law,' were undoubtedly intended to convey the same
meaning as the words, 'by the law of the land' in Magna
Charta." Again this Court said: 8
'Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 247; Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall.
532, 557,
'Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Imp. Co., 18 How. 272, 276.
'Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343, 349, 350.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
303 U. S.

BLACK, J., concurring.

"When Magna Charta declared that no freeman should
be deprived of life, etc., 'but by the judgment of his peers
or by the law of the land,' it referred to a trial by twelve
jurors. Those who emigrated to this country from England brought with them this great privilege 'as their
birthright and inheritance, .

.

..' . . .

'The trial . . . by

a jury of one's country, is justly esteemed one of the principal excellencies of our Constitution; for what greater
security can any person have in his life, liberty or estate,
than to be sure of not being divested of, or injured in any
of these, without the sense and verdict of twelve honest
and impartial men of his neighborhood? . . .
There is nothing in the letter or spirit of our Constitution or any constitutional amendment, which deprives a
state of the right to submit issues of fact to a trial by jury.
That Constitution indicates no preference for determination of facts by judges or masters appointed by judges.
On the contrary, our Federal Constitution, the State Constitutions, and our national tradition demonstrate a wellestablished preference for trial by jury.
"One of the objections made to the acceptance of the
Constitution as it came from the hands of the Convention
of 1787 was that it did not, in express words, preserve the
right of trial by jury, and that under it, facts tried by a
jury could be reexamined by the courts of the United
States otherwise than according to the rules of the common law. The Seventh Amendment was intended to
meet these objections, and to deprive the courts of
the United States of any such authority." '
Further, "Upon the reasoning in the case just referred
to [The Justices v. Murray, 9 Wall. 274, 278] it would
seem to be clear that the last clause of the Seventh
Amendment forbids the retrial by this court of the facts
tried by the jury in the present case. . ..
'Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 243.

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

MCREYNOLDS and

BUTLER,

JJ., dissenting.

Even if we were of opinion in view of the evidence
that the jury erred in finding that no property right, of
substantial value in money, had been taken from the
railroad company, by reason of the opening of a street
across its right of way, we cannot, on that ground, re~xamine the final judgment of the state court. We are
permitted only to inquire whether the trial court prescribed any rule of law for the guidance of the jury that
was in absolute disregard of the compahy's right to just
compensation." 10
This cause was tried in the courts of Texas in accordance
with regular court procedure applicable to such cases.
The facts were submitted to a jury as provided by the
constitution and laws of that State, and in harmony with
the traditions of the people of this nation. Under these
circumstances, no proper interpretation of the words "due
process of law" contained in the Fourteenth Amendment,
can justify the conclusion that appellant has been
deprived of its property contrary to that "due process."
In October, 1877, this Court in Davidson v. New Orleans,
96 U. S. 97, 105-in discussing the Fourteenth Amendment-said:
"But however this may be, or under whatever other
clause of the Federal Constitution we may review the case,
it is not possible to hold that a party has, without due
process of law, been deprived of his property, when, as
regards the issues affecting it, he has, by the laws of the
State, a fair trial in a court of justice, according to the
modes of proceeding applicable to such a case."
I concur in the affirmance.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR.
JUSTICE BUTLER.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I are of opinion that the judgment under review should be reversed. We adhere to the
" Id., 244, 246.

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
MCREYNOLDS

and

BUTLER, JJ.,

dissenting..

303 U. S.

doctrine announced iiOhio Vallcy Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287, and often reaffirmed. When rates
fixed for a public service corporation by an administrative
body are alleged to be confiscatory the Federal Constitution requires that fair opportunity be afforded for submitting the controversy to a judicial tribunal for determination upon its own independent judgment both as to law
and facts. Here such opportunity has been denied.
June 13, 1933, the Texas Railroad Commission directed
appellant to observe a new schedule of rates. By bill
presented to the United States District Court June 29,
1933, appellant challenged this action as confiscatory.
July 26, 1933, the Commission began this proceeding in
the state court by filing an original petition which, among
other things, alleged"Notwithstanding defendant's remedies are adequate
and complete in the courts of this State, and notwithstanding every constitutional and legal right to which it
may be entitled is and will be fully safeguarded and protected in said court, the defendant, nevertheless, elected to
and did, on or about the 29th day of June, 1933, file its
bill of complaint in the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Texas, Laredo Division, in a
cause en.titled, United Gas Public Service Company,
plaintiff v. Lon A. Smith, et al., defendants, No. 32 in
Equity, and being a cause wherein your defendant is
plaintiff and wherein each and all of your plaintiffs are
defendants, except the State of Texas. . ....
"In said action in said United States District Court,
United Gas Public Service Company alleges in substance
and effect that the order entered by the Railroad Commission of Texas fixed and prescribed a rate confiscatory
of its property used and useful in the public service, and
alleged that said order is unconstitutional and upon said
allegation [obtained] a temporary restraining order out
of said court enjoining and restraining your plaintiffs and

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

MCIRYNOLDS and BUTERi, JJ., dissenting.

each of them (except the State of Texas) from compelling
or attempting to compel your defendant to observe said
order of said Commission."
"Plaintiffs allege that the defendant is attempting to
evade the laws of this State and the lawful order of the
Railroad Commission of Texas fixing and prescribing rates
and charges for the distribution and sale of natural gas
within the limits of the City of Laredo, and that in charging a rate in excess of that prescribed by the Railroad
Commission, plaintiffs herein, and each of them, are suffering irreparable injury, and that there is no adequate
remedy prescribed by the laws of this State which will
protect tlhe public interest involved and the rights of
plaintiffs herein."
"Plaintiffs are desirous of having the constitutional
questions involved in the attack being made by United
Gas Public Service Company upon the Commission's
order heard and determined in the courts of this State,
and to that end desire this court to enter a stay of proceedings in accordance with the provisions of Section
38 [380 *], Title 28, U. S. C. to the end that all proceedings in the district courts of the United States will
be stayed pending a final determination of this cause in
the courts of this State."
It is further provided that if
Sec. 380, Title 28 U. S. C. "...
before the final hearing of such application [to a federal court for
injunction] a suit shall have been brought in a court of the State
having jurisdiction thereof under the laws of such State, to enforce
such statute or order, accompanied by a stay. in such State court of
proceedings under such statute or order pending the determination
of such suit by such State court, all proceedings in any court of the
United States to restrain the execution of such statute or order shall
be stayed pending the final determination of such suit in the courts
of The State. Such stay may be vacated upon proof made after hearing, and notice of ten days served upon the attorney general of the
State, that the suit in the State courts is not being prosecuted with
diligence and good faith. ..."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
MCREYNOLDS and BUTLER,

JJ., dissenting.

303 U. S.

"This action is filed in this court in the nature of an
appeal under the terms of Article 6059, Revised Civil
Statutes, but such appeal is not taken because the plaintiffs herein are dissatisfied with the rates and charges
prescribed in the Commission's said order, but primarily
for the purpose of protecting the jurisdiction of this
Court and its venue to hear and finally determine the
matters in controversy and to enforce the said order, if it
should be determined to be valid upon final hearing."
The petition asked: That the defendant appear and
answer; that upon final trial the plaintiffs have an appropriate judgment; that defendant be enjoined from
charging any rates other than those fixed by the Commission; also that an order issue staying further proceedings by the Commission pending the termination of
this suit, &c.
July, 26, 1933, the state court entered a stay order as
prayed. August 17, 1933, upon the Commission's application, the United States District Court ordered that all
proceedings in that court be stayed, pending final action
by the state court.
Under the compulsion indicated, appellant unwillingly
appeared in the state court and filed an answer setting
up its rights under the Federal Constitution. The matter
was supposed to stand in that court for hearing de novo.
Voluminous evidence was presented by both sides.
Notwithstanding appellant's definite objections and
its duly presented requests for adequate instructions, a
single issue was submitted to the jury. "Do you find that
the order of the Railroad Commission of Texas bearing
date June 13, 1933, providing for a fifty-five cent gas
rate to residential consumers within the city of Laredo,
Texas, under the facts introduced in evidence before you,
is unreasonable and unjust as to defendant, United Gas
Public Service Company? Answer this question 'Yes,'
or 'No.'" The jury answered "No," and judgment
affirming the Commission's order in part was entered.

UNITED GAS CO. v. TEXAS.
123

McREYNOLDS and BUTLER, JJ., dissenting.

The Court of Civil Appeals took the cause for review
upon the record made in the District Court. The following excerpts from its opinion sufficiently indicate the
reasons which moved it partly to sustain and partly to
overrule the judgment of the trial court and finally to
approve the Commission's action in toto.
"We have reached the conclusion that appellant not
only failed to establish its claim for reversal and rendition of judgment in its favor, but that when viewed in the
light of the presumption in favor of the validity of the
Commission's rate order, and of the quantum and character of proof required to overcome such presumption, the
evidence adduced was insufficient, as a matter of law,
to show that the 550 rate order was either unjust and
unreasonable or confiscatory. In view of this conclusion,
all questions of practice presented in 'Part II.' of the brief
go out of the case."
"In absence of an actual test of the rate, the court on
appeal must resolve all doubts against the complaining
party; pare down valuations unsparingly; and the rate
must appear to be clearly confiscatory, or unjust and
unreasonable before the court should by injunction
restrain its enforcement in advance of actual experience
of the practical results of the rate."
"That in advance of any actual test of the practical
result of the new rate, the court on appeal will not disturb the rate where it is based upon conflicting evidence
as to valuations of property, or as to any other item used
as a basis for the calculation of the rate; because to do so
would merely substitute the findings of the court or jury
upon conflicting evidence for that of the Commission, and
would therefore permit the court to exercise the legislative
function of rate-making. R. R. Commission v. Shupee,
57 S. W. (2d), 295; affirmed 73 S. W. (2d), 505. And
that by 'resolving all doubts against' the appellant, 'and
using valuations pared down unsparingly,' there could

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

have been no reasonable doubt in the judicial mind that
the 55¢ rate was neither confiscatory nor unjust and unreasonable. Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., 258 U. S.,
165."
Considering the rules which the Court of Civil Appeals
declared applicable to the trial, quite evidently appellant
had no adequate opportunity to submit the law and facts
relevant to the controversy to a fair judicial tribunal for
determination according to its own independent judgment.
A tribunal required to accept weighty presumptions
against a defendant, resolve all doubts against it, pare
down valuations to the utmost and refuse a judgment in
its favor when the evidence is conflicting as to valuations
or other important elements, could not reach an independent judgment in respect of the law and facts-could not
arrive at a fair judicial determination. To us the
proceedings in the state courts seem an empty show.

NEW YORK

EX REL.

CONSOLIDATED WATER CO. v.

MALTBIE

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 380. Argued February 3, 4, 1938.-Decided February 14, 1938.
A public utility in New York, complaining of an order reducing its
rates, sought a review by certiorari, which under the state practice
is limited to questions of law. Hcld:
1. That it had no standing to say that the limitation deprived
it of due process of law. P. 160.
2. That of. the questions of, law presented, including the question
whether there was evidence to sustain the findings of fact made
by the rate-fixing body, none was a substantial federal question.

Id.
Appeal from 275 N. Y. 357; 9 N. E. 2d 961, dismissed.

Mr. Thay:." Burgess, with whom Mr. George H.
Kenny was on the brief, for appellent.

