OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

come received from the operation of the oil and gas wells
by one who has a capital investment therein,-not income from the sale of the oil and gas properties themselves. See Darby-Lynde Co. v. Alexander, 51 F. (2d)
56; 59. We conclude that as respondent disposed of the
properties, retaining no investment therein, it was not
entitled to make the deduction claimed for depletion.
Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551, 557; Helvering v. Twin
Bell Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 321; Thomas v. Perkins,
301 U. S. 655, 661; Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., ante,
p. 362; Helvering v. O'Donnell, supra.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. MOUNTAIN PRODUCERS CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 600.

Argued February 10, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.

1. The allowance for depletion in the case of oil and gas wells is
fixed by Rev. Act 1926, § 204 (2), arbitrarily at a specified per
cent. of the "gross income from the property," for convenience
of administration; the allowance is an act of grace; the rule prescribed can not be varied to suit particular equities; the term
"gross income from the property," means gross income from the
oil and gas, and must be taken in its natural sense,-such income
may be more or less than market value according to the bearing
of particular contracts. P. 381.

HELVERING v. PRODUCERS CORP.
376

377

Statement of the Case.

2. The Rev. Act of 1926 provides that in the case of oil and gas
wells "the allowance for depletion shall be 271/ per centum of the
gross income from the property (luring the taxable year." The
taxpayer, a corporation owning oil and gas properties, made a
contract with a refining company pursuant to which, until a day
specified, all the oil produced by the taxpayer was sold to the refiner at prices based on the average price received by the refiner
for gasoline and kerosene, the refiner taking delivery from measuring tanks near the wells. As part of the price of the oil purchased, the refiner agreed to conduct the production operations.
Held that the taxpayer's "gross income from the property" was the
sum of the payments received from the refiner without adding the
cost of production defrayed by the refiner under the contract.
P. 378.
3. A school' section, part of the land granted by the United States
to the State of Wyoming for educational purposes by the Enabling Act of July 10, 1890, 26 Stat. 222, 223, was leased by the
State to a private corporation for production of oil and gas,
the State reserving a royalty. The Enabling Act provides that
the proceeds of the land shall constitute a permanent school
fund, and authorizes the State to lease for not more than five years.
The lessee executed a declaration of trust, that~it held an undivided 50% of the lease and its net proceeds for the benefit of
the taxpayer in this cse. Held:
(1) That, as respects the power of the Federal Government to
tax income from the lease, no distinction can be made between
the income received by the lessee and the income received by
the cestui que trust. Pp. 382-383.
(2) A federal tax on such income is not subject to constitutional
objection as a tax upon an instrumentality of the State and as
constituting a direct and substantial interference with the execution of the trust assumed by the State under the Enabling Act.
Pp. 383-387.
Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S.393 and Gillespie
v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S.501, overruled.
92 F. 2d 78, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 681, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 34 B. T. A. 409,
which affirmed, in reduced amount, a deficiency assessment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
()pinioni of the Court.

303 IT.S.

Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Maurice J. Mahoney, Warner W.
Gardner, and Edward J. Ennis were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Harold D. Roberts, with whom Mr. Randolph E.
Paul was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

'delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondent, Mountain Producers Corporation, owned
all the capital stock of the Wyoming Associated Oil Corporation and filed a consolidated income tax return for
the year 1925. Two distinct questions are involved with
-respect to the taxable income of the above-mentioned
affiliate. These are (1) as to the amount of the gross
income of the affiliate for the purpose of the statutory allowance for depletion in the case of oil and gas wells (Revenue Act of 1926, § 204 (c) (2), § 234 (a) (8)); and
(2) as to a claim of exemption from taxation of income
received by the affiliate under a trust agreement with the
owner of an oil and gas lease from the State of Wyoming.
The Board of Tax Appeals decided against respondent
upon both points (34 B.-T. A. 409) and its decision was
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 92 F. (2d)
78. Because of an asserted conflict with a decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in the case
of Bankline Oil Co. v. Commissioner, 90 F. (2d) 899,
(see Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., ante, p. 362), we
granted certiorari.
First.-Wyoming Associated, organized in 1919, held
certain placer mining claims, leases and operating agreements in the Salt Creek Oil Field in Natrona County,
Wyoming. Pursuant to the Oil and Gas Leasing Act of
Congress of February 25, 1920, the company exchanged
its placer claims for government leases, and later certain

HELVERING v. PRODUCERS CORP.
376

Opinion of the Court.

exchanges were made with thc Midwest Oil Company
and the Wyoming Oil Fields Company. In 1923, Wyoming Associated made a contract with the Midwest Refining Company by which the former agreed to sell to*
the latter all the oil produced by it in the Salt Creek Oil
Field'and the Refining Company agreed to purchase such
oil until January, 1934, upon a sliding scale of prices
based upon the average price received by the Refining
Company for gasoline and kerosene. Wyoming Associated agreed to give the Refining Company free use of
all storage facilities, pipe lines, buildings and equipment,
and so much of the oil and gas produced as might be
reasonably necessary for production purposes. The Refining Company agreed, as part of the price of the oil thus
purchased, to drill, case and maintain all wells, supply
water, install and operate pumps, and conduct all development and production operations. The Refining
Company agreed to take delivery of the purchased oil
at the outlet gates of the measuring tanks located at or
near the wells.
Respondent contended that the gross income of Wyoming Associated from its properties during the taxable
year, for the purpose of the statutory allowance for depletion, consisted of the total cash payments received by
Wyoming Associated, plus the cost of production defrayed by the Refining Company under its contract. The
amount of that cost was shown by stipulation. The
Board of Tax Appeals limited the gross income of Wyoming Associated to the cash payments received. The
Circuit Court of Appeals was of the opinion that the cost
of production incurred by the Refining Company should
be added in the view that, had Wyoming Associated produced the oil at its own expense, its gross income would
have been the amount which it received for the oil sold
and it would thus have obtained in cash the proportionate amount which represented the cost of the production.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of Ihe Court.

303 1'. S.

Laying emphasis upon the provision of the contract
that the Refining Company should perforin its services
as a part of the purchase price of the oil, respondent
'contends that it is irrelevant that the Refining Company
acted for its own benefit; that the production and lifting
services were performed prior to delivery of the oil, and
that the Refining Company was acting as the agent for
Wyoming Associated down to the point of delivery and
not until then became a vendee; that thus Wyoming
Associated did not sell oil under the ground but oil severed from the ground and treated for delivery; that it
was not essential for respondent to show that the total
price under the contract must be either above or below
the market price at any specified time, and that the
price as fixed by the contract controlled the dealings and
the taxes of the parties. Respondent agrees that an interest in oil or gas or some type of ownership is essential
to the right of deduction for depletion and assumes that
no one but Wyoming Associated owned any interest in
the oil and gas in place.
The Government argues that the cash price received
for the oil is the seller's entire "gross income from the
property" where, as in this instance, the oil is purchased
under a contract by which a refiner agrees to defray the
expense of the development and production. operations
and to pay a cash price based on the prices it obtains
for the products it sells at its refinery; that the oil production operations were conducted by the Refining Company for its own benefit in order to obtain the oil at a
price it deemed to be favorable; that the method of determining the purchase price under the contract was not
related to the field market price of oil but was expressly
related to a different basis, which might be greater, that
is, to a basis consisting of the current prices obtained by
the Refining Company for its gasoline and kerosene;
that if the development operations had been unsuccess-

HELVERING v. PRODUCERS CORP.
376

Opinion of the Court.

ful and no oil had been produced, the services of the
Refining Company would still have been paid for by the
owner's promise to sell at a fixed price whatever oil might
be produced, and that this should be taken to be the meaning of the provision that the Refining Company should
perform its services as part of the price for oil purchased;
that the owner of oil in place, instead of preparing it for
delivery and sale, may prefer to lessen his work, lower
his price and thus decrease his gross income from the
property, and in such case the services which the buyer
may perform are not to be regarded as part of that
income.
We think that the Government's argument is sound.
The evident purpose of the statutory provision controls.
It is a unique provision to meet a special case. Analogies
sought to be drawn from other applications of the revenue acts may be delusive and lead us far from the intent
of Congress in this instance. Congress has recognized
that in fairness there should be compensation to the
owner for the -exhaustion of the mineral deposits in the
course of production'. United States v. Ludey, 274 U. S.
295, 302. But 'to appraise the actual extent of depletion
on the particular facts in relation to each taxpayer would
give rise to problems of considerable perplexity and would
create administrative difficulties which it was intended
to overcome by laying down a simple rule which could
be easily applied. To this end, the taxpayer was permitted to deduct a specified percentage of his gross income from the property. See United States v. DakotaMontana Oil Co., 288 U. S.459, 461. Congress was free
to give such an arbitrary allowance as the deduction was
an act of grace. In answer to the contention that the
provision may produce "unjust and unequal results,"
we have remarked that this is likely to be so "wherever
a rule of thumb is applied without a detailed examination of the facts affecting. each taxpayer." Helvering v.
Twin Bell Syndicate, 293 U. S.312, 321.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

The rule being of this sort for obvious purposes of
administrative convenience, we must apply it in the
simple manner it contemplates. The 27/ per cent. allowed is a fixed factor, not to be increased or lessened by
asserted equities. The term "gross income from the
property" means gross income from the oil and gas (Helvering v. Twin Bell Syndicate, supra) and the term
should be taken in its natural sense. With the motives
which lead the taxpayer to be satisfied with the proceeds
he receives we are not concerned. If, in this instance,
the development operations had failed to produce oil, it
would hardly be said that the expense of drilling, borne
under contract by another, constituted "gross income" of
the taxpayer within the meaning of the statute. Nor,
when oil or gas is produced, does the statute base the percentage on market value. The gross income from time
to time may be more or less than market value, according
to the bearing of particular contracts. We do not think
that we are at liberty to colistruct a theoretical gross income by recourse to the expenses of production operations.
The Refining Company for its own purposes undertook
the expense of those operations, and Wyoming Associated
was content to receive as its own return the cash payments for the oil produced, leaving to the Refining Company the risks of production.
We are of the opinion that the cash payments made by
the Refining Company constituted the gross income of
Wyoming Associated and were the basis for the computation of the depletion allowance.
Second.-The State of Wyoming, in 1919, made a lease
for the term of five years to the Midwest Oil Company
covering a section of "school land" (section 36, township 40 north, range 79 west) for the purpose of producing oil and gas, reserving a royalty to the State. The
lease was superseded in 1923 by another lease of like
import, running from 1924, the royalty to the State being fixed at 65 per cent. of oil and gas produced. In

HELVERING v. PRODUCERS CORP.
376

Opinion of the Court.

1923, the Midwest Oil Company executed a declaration
of trust, that it held an undivided- 50 per cent.. interest
in the lease, and in the net proceeds to be realized therefrom, and all renewals thereof, for the benefit of Wyoming Associated. In 1925, the State received the agreed
royalty of the oil produced and the proceeds of the sale
of the remaining oil were divided between Wyoming
Associated and the Midwest Oil Company.
The question is whether Wyoming Associated is subject to a federal income tax with respect to the amount
it thus received. Immunity is claimed upon the ground
that in this relation Wyoming Associated is a state
instrumentality.
By the Enabling Act, the land in question was granted
to the State of Wyoming for educational purposes, the
proceeds to constitute a permanent school fund. Authority was given to lease such -land for not more than
five years.. Act of July 10, .1890, c. 664, §§ 4, 5, 26 Stat.
222, 223. Apart from the fact that the claim is made
by Wyoming Associated by virtue of the declaration of
trust, and not by the lessee, the case would fall directly
within the decision in Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co.,
285 U. S. 393, relating to a federal tax upon net income
derived by a lessee under a lease of "school lands" by
the State of Oklahoma. In Burnet v. Jergins Trust, 288
U. S; 508, we limited the application of the Coronado
case, saying that the doctrine invoked was to be applied
strictly. But a distinction solely upon the ground that
the income in the instant case was received under a declaration of trust by the lessee, and not by the lessee itself,
does not appear to be substantial and we are of the opinion that the Coronado case and the decision upon which
it rested should be reconsidered in the light of our other
decisions as to the taxing power.
The Coronado case was decided as a corollary to the
case of Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501. The Court
there denied to Oklahoma the right to enforce its tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

upon net income derived by a lessee from sales of his
share of oil and gas received under leases of restricted Indian lands. See Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison,
235 U. S. 292; -Indian Territory Illtiminating Oil Co. v.
Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522. As Oklahoma was thus
barred from enforcing its tax upon the income of a federal lessee of Indian lands, the Court in the Coronado
case held that a similar principle should be applied to the
enforcement of a federal tax upon the income of the
State's lessee of school lands. In such a case, as the
State was executing a trust imposed by Congress as a
condition of the State's entering the Union, the cases in
which the State had engaged in business enterprises, apart
from what should be deemed to be its essential governmental functions, were thought to be inapplicable. 285
U. S. p. 400.
The -ground of the decision in the Gillespie case, as
stated by Mr. Justice Holmes in speaking for the Court,
was that "a tax upon the leases" was "a tax upon the
power to make them, and could be used to destroy the
power to make them" (240 U. S. p. 530) and that a tax
"upon the profits of the leases" was "a direct hamper
upon the effort of the United States to make the best
terms that it can for its wards." In the light of .the
expanding needs of State and Nation, the inquiry has
been pressed whether this conclusion has adequate basis;
whether in a case where the tax is not laid upon the
leases as such, or upon the government's property or interest, but is imposed upon the 'gains of the lessee, like
that laid upon others engaged in similar business enterprises, there is in truth such a direct and substantial interference with the performance of the government's obligation as to require immunity for the lessee's income.
We have held that the ruling in the Gillespie case should
be limited strictly to cases closely analogous (Burnet v.
Coronado Oil & Gas Co., supra),. and the distinctions

HELVERING v. PRODUCERS CORP.
376

Opinion of the Court.

thus maintained have attenuated its teaching and raised
grave doubt as to whether it should longer be supported.
In numerous decisions we have had occasion to declare the competing principle, buttressed by the most
cogent considerations, that the power to tax should not
be crippled "by extending the constitutional exemption
from taxation to those subjects which fall within the general application of non-discriminatory laws, and where
no direct burden is laid upon the governmental instrumentality and there is only remote, if any, influence
upon the exercise of the functions of government." Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 225, and illustrations there
cited. Thus we have held that the compensation paid
by a State or a municipality to a consulting engineer for
work on public projects may be subjected to a federal
income tax (Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514,
524) and that the income of independent contractors engaged in carrying on government enterprises may be
taxed. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134.
We have always recognized that no constitutional implications prohibit a non-discriminatory tax upon the
property of an agent of government merely because it
is the property of such an agent and used in the conduct
of the agent's operations and necessary for the agency.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 436; Railroad
Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 33; Alward v. Johnson,
282 U. S. 509, 514. The Congress may tax state banks
upon the average amount of their deposits, although deposits of state funds by state officers are included. Manhattan Company v. Blake, 148 U. S. 412. Both the Congress and the States have the power to tax transfers or
successions in case of death, and, this power extends to
the taxation by a State of bequests to the United States
and to the taxation by the Congress of bequests to States
or their municipalities. United States v. Perkins, 163
U. S. 625; Snyder v. Bettman, 190 U. S. 249, 253, 254.
5:;3

°-:18

-25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

While a tax on the interest payable on state and municipal bonds has been h6ld to be invalid as a tax bearing
directly upon the exercise of the borrowing power of the
Government (Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 468, 469;
Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429,
586), the sale of the bonds by their owners after they
have been issued by the State or municipality is regarded
as a transaction distinct from the contracts made by the
government in the bonds themselves, and the profits of
such sales are subject to the federal income tax. Willcuts v. Bunn, supra, p. 227. See, also, Burnet v. Jergins
Trust, supra;Helvering v. Therrell, ante, p. 218; and Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., ante, p. 362.
fi Group No. 1 Oil Corporationv. Bass, 283 U. S. 279,
profits derived by a lessee from the sale of oil and gas
produced under a lease from the State of Texas were held
not to be immune from federal taxation. This decision
was distinguished in the Coronado case *uponthe narrow
ground that under the law of Texas the leases effected a
present sale to the lessee of the oil and gas in place.
In Indian Territory Oil Co. v. Board of Equalization, 288
U. S. 325, the Court sustained a non-discriminatory ad
valorem tax imposed by the State of Oklahoma on oil
extracted from restricted Indian lands under leases approved by the Secretary of the Interior, where the oil had
been removed from the lands and stored in the owner's
tanks and the Indians had no further interest in it.
These decisions in a variety of applications enforce
what we deem to be the controlling view-that immunity
from non-discriminatory taxation sought by a private
person for his property or gains because he is engaged
in operations under a government contract or lease cannot be supported by merely theoretical conceptions of
interference with the functions of government. Regard
must be had to substance and direct effects. And where

HELVERING v. PRODUCERS CORP.
376

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

it merely appears that one operating under a government
contract or lease is subjected to a tax with.respecf to his
profits on the same basis as others who are engaged in
similar businesses, there is no sufficient ground for holding that the effect upon the Government is other than
indirect and remote. We are convinced that the rulings
in Gille~pie v. Oklahoma, supra, and Burnet v. Coronado
Oil & Gas Co., supra, are out of harmony with correct
principle and accordingly they should be, and they now
are, overruled.
In the instant case, we find no ground for concluding
that the tax upon the profits of Wyoming Associated derived under its lease from the State constituted any direct and substantial interference with the execution of
the trust which the State has assumed, and the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals to the contrary must be
reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzor and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting.

At least since M'Culloch v. Maryland (1819), 4 Wheat.
316, the dual form of government resulting from the adoption of the Constitution has been deemed necessarily to
imply that no.State may tax the operations of the Federal Government in the exertion of powers that the people
delegated to it and that, for the same reason, the Federal
Government may not tax the operations of any State in
the exertion of any of its essential functions of government. As to that principle, the urgency of governmental
demand for money does not justify yielding here. No
one can foresee the extent to which the decision just
announced surrenders it. The transactions of a State

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

for the purpose of raising money to provide for schools
are admittedly within the principle as heretofore it has
been understood and applied. Now this Court makes it
lawful for the United States to lay tribute upon them.
A few citations will be sufficient to suggest the character of the change so wrought.
M'Culloch v. Maryland held that impliedly the Federal Constitution forbade imposition by Maryland of any
tax upon the operations of the Bank of the United States
within that State. There Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for a unanimous Court, demonstrates (p. 426): "1st.
That a power to create implies a power to preserve. 2nd.
That a power to destroy, if wielded by a different hand,
is hostile to, and incompatible with these powers to create and to preserve. 3d. That where this repugnancy
exists, that authority which is supreme must control, not
yield to that over which it is supreme."

Farmers & Mechanics Bank v. Minnesota (1914), 232
U. S.516, held that a State cannot tax bonds issued by a

territory of the United States; that a tax upon the bonds
is a tax on the government issuing them; that such a
tax, if allowed at all, may be carried to an extent that
will entirely arrest governmental operations. The Court
rested that decision upon M'Culloch v. Maryland, saying

(p. 521): "The principle has never since been departed
from, and has often been reasserted and applied." 1
Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison (1914), 235 U. S.
292, held that, where by agreement with an Indian tribe
the United States assumed a duty in regard to operation

of coal mines, the lessees of the mines were instrumentalities of the government and could not be subjected
to a state occupation or privilege tax.'
'Citing Osborn. v. U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 859; Home Savings
Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 513; Grether v. Wright, 75 Fed.
742, 753.
2Citing M'Culloch v.. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Farmers & Mechanics Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516.

IIELVERING v. PRODUCERS CORP.
87(

I 'j('.:1,

.1., dis.cnlfing.

Indian, Trrilury Oil Co. v. Oklah.ma (1916), 240
U. S. 522, held that oil leascs in Oklahoma made by the
Osage' tribe were under the protection of the Federal
Government; that the corporation owning the leases was
a federal instrumentality and that therefore the State
could not tax its interest in the leases, either directly or
by taxing the capital stock of the corporation owning
them.'
Gillespie v. Oklahoma (1922), 257 U. S. 501, held that
net income derived from leases like those considered in
Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, supra, 'and Indian
Territory Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, supra, could not be taxed
by the State; for the lessee was an instrumentality used
by the United States in fulfilling its duties to the Indians.' The Court said (p. 506): "The same considerations that invalidate a tax upon the leases invalidate a
tax upon the profits of the leases, and, stopping short of
theoretical possibilities, a tax upon such profits is a
direct hamper upon the effort of the United States to
make the best terms that it can for its wards."
Citing Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292.
"Citing Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292; Indian
Territory Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; Howard v. Gipsy Oil
Co., 247 U. S. 503; Large Oil Co. v. Howard, 248 U. S. 549.
As to taxability of gains from interstate commerce, see U. S. Glue
Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Shaffer v. Carter, 2.52 U. S. 37, 57.
In Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 399, 400,
it is stated that Gillespie v. Oklahoma has often been referred to as
the expression of an accepted principle, citing Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 522; Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271
U. S. 609, 613; Northwestern Mutual Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275
U. S. 136, 140; Heiner v. Colonial Trust Co., 275 U. S. 232, 234;
Shaw v. Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corp., 276 U. S. 575, 579; Panhandle
Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, 221, 222; Carpenter v. Shaw, 280 U. S. 363, 366; Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S.
216, 229; Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283 U. S. 279, 282, 283;
Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 576; Choteau
v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 691, 696.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BIT,'TLE:,,J.,(3ic

i g.

803 U.S.

Jaybird Mininy Co. v. 11'cir (1926), 271 U. S. 609,
held that where mining land was leased by incompetent
Indian owners with the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, in consideration of royalty in kind, a state ad
valorem tax assessed to lessee on ores in bins on the
land, before sale or segregation, was void as an attempt
to tax an agency of the Federal Government.'
In Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co. (1932), 285 U. S.
393, it appeared that lands granted by the United States
to Oklahoma for the support of common schools were
leased by the State to a private company for extraction
of oil and gas, the State reserving a part of the gross production, the proceeds of which were paid into the school
fund. We held that the lease was an instrumentality of
the State in the exercise of a strictly governmental function, and that application of the federal income tax to the
income derived from the lease by the lessee was therefore
8
unconstitutional.
To reach in this case the conclusion that respondent's
affiliate is subject to federal income tax on the proceeds
of its share of the oil received under the lease of state
school lands, this Court expressly overrules Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, supra, and Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas
Co., supra; and with them necessarily goes a long line of
decisions of this and other courts. The opinion brings
forward no real reason for so sweeping a change of conCiting Farmers & Mechanics Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516;
Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U. S. 292; Indian Territory Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; Gillespie v. Oklahoma,
257 U. S. 501; Howard v. Gipsy OilCo., 247 U. S. 503; Large Oil
Co. v. Howard, 248 U. S. 549.
6 Following Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501. Citing Texas v.
White, 7 Wall. 700, 725; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; Pollock v.
Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 584; Farmers & Mechanics
Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516, 527.

HELVERING v. MITCHELL.
376

Syllabus.

struction of the Constitution. It is to the plain disadvantage of Indian wards of the National Government and
school children of the several States; it threatens many
business arrangements that have been made for their
benefit.
I dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE,. v. MITCHELL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FUR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 324.

Argued January 14, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.

Section 293 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1928, Title I, provides that,
if any part of a deficiency is due to fraud with intent to evade
tax, 50% of the total amount of the deficiency (in addition to
such deficiency) shall be assessed, collected and paid. Section
146 (b) of the same Title declares that any person who wilfully
attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by
the Title, shall, in addition to other penalties provided" by law, be
guilty of a felony and upon conviction be subject to fine and
imprisonment.
Held: That an acquittal of a charge of wilful attempt to evade,
under § 146 (b), does not bar assessment and collection of the
.397 et seq.
50% addition prescribed by § 293 (b).
The doctrine of res judicata is inapplicable because of the difference in quantum of proof in civil and criminal cases; the acquittal
was merely an adjudication that the proof was not sufficient to
overcome all reasonable doubt of guilt. P. 397.
The doctrine of double jeopardy is inapplicable because the 50%
addition to tax provided by § 293 (b) is not primarily punitive
but is a remedial sanction imposed as a safeguard for protection of
the revenue and to reimburse the Government for expense and
loss resulting from the taxpayer's fraud. As such it may be
enforced by a civil procedure to which the accepted rules and

