DEITRICK v. STANDARD SURETY CO.

471

Statement of the Casc.

DEITRICK, RECEIVER, ET AL. v. STANDARD
SURETY & CASUALTY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THIE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 455. Argued March 7, 8, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.
1. A defense of fraud, good against a national bank in an action
to enforce a contract, is good against the bank's receiver in such
an action. P. 479.
2. The receiver of a national bank sought to enforce against a
surety company, as contracts made to the bank, bonds purporting to have been executed by the company through a general agent
and purporting to guarantee payment of certain notes held by the
bank. The surety alleged and the proofs showed that the bonds
were obtained by the bank through the fraud of the bank's president
in collusion with the surety's agent. There was evidence that the
agent knew the bonds would be shown to the bank directors and to
any others entitled to inquire concerning the notes, for the purposes of deception. Held that the pleadings afforded no bdsis for a
recovery by the receiver upon the theory that because the Comptroller and national bank examiners were deceived by the bonds
to the injury of creditors, therefore the surety was estopped to
deny their validity as against the receiver, representative of such
creditors. P. 479.
90 F. 2d 862, 866, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 676, to review the affirmance of

judgments and decrees of the District Court in actions
at law brought by the predecessor of the above-named
petitioner, receiver of a national bank, to recover from
the surety company on bonds held by the bank, and in
suits in equity brought by the surety company in a
state court and'subsequently removed, in which the surety
sought to have the bonds canceled for fraud. The cases
were heard in conjunction by the District Court, and
evidence was taken and findings were made by an Auditor
and Master. That court dismissed the actions and decreed in the surety's favor.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Messrs. George P. Barse and Robert E. Goodwin, with
whom Messrs. Richard M. Nichols, James Louis Robertson, afid Trevor V. Roberts were on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Frederic H. Chase and Raymond P. Baldwin,
with whom Mr. Frank H. Stewart was on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Boston-Continental National Bank, established in
December 1930 through consolidation of Boston National
Bank and Continental National Bank, became insolvent.
December 17, 1931, a receiver appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency took charge of its affairs. Petitioner is his successor. Among the bank's effects were
four "Note-Guaranty" Bonds--$40,000, $52,000, $20,000
and $20,000-alike in form, dated in August and December 1930 and June and July 1931, with certain "endorseinents" showing extensions. Each purported to be executed by the maker of a described note as principal with
Respondent as surety, and was conditioned to pay to the
bank the amount of the note upon default, &c.
In June and September 1932 the Receiver brought
separate actions at law upon three of these bonds. In
each he alleged that the Company was indebted to him
for the specified penalty with interest; and for this he
asked judgment. The three declarations are alike in
form and allegations. One, typical of all, is copied below.'
' DeclarationNow comes the plaintiff in the above-entitled action and says that
on December 22, 1931, he was appointed receiver of Boston-Continental National Bank by the Comptroller of the Currency of the
United States, that he duly qualified and is now acting as such
receiver.
And the plaintiff says that the defendant duly entered into, executed under seal and delivered to the Continental National Bank of

DEITRICK v. STANDARD SURETY CO.
471

473

Opinion of the Court.

There also is one of the Note-Guaranty Bonds, typical of
all.2 Each declaration exhibited a bond, alleged that
thereby the Company bound itself to pay the bank a
Boston, now known as Boston-Continental National Bank, a written
instrument or bond, copy whereof is hereto annexed marked "A" and
hereby made a part hereof; that by the terms of said bond the defendant bound itself to pay said Continental National Bank of Boston
the sum of forty thousand dollars ($40,000) in the event that four
notes of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) each signed by Westchester
Discount Corporation were not paid upon the due dates as set forth
in said bond, the last due date being April 20, 1931; that some time
prior to April 20, 1931, said bond was extended to June 20, 1931, by
a written instrument called endorsement, copy whereof is hereto
annexed marked "B"; that some time prior to June 20, 1931 said
bond was extended to December 20, 1931 by a written instrument
called endorsement, copy whereof is hereto annexed marked "C";
that the condition of said bond as extended as aforesaid has been
broken in that Westchester Discount Corporation, the principal
named therein, has not paid the notes described in said bond according to their terms, but on the contrary has failed, refused and declined
to pay said notes and still continues so to refuse, notwithstanding the
fact that all times have elapsed and all conditions have been fulfilled
necessary to entitle the plaintiff to payment in full of said notes;
that the defendant was duly notified of the default in accordance
with the provisions of the bond; that the damages sustained by the
plaintiff on account of the default of said Westchester Discount Corporation are in excess of forty thousand dollars ($40,000).
Wherefore, the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in the penal
sum of said bond with interest from December 20, 1931.
And the plaintiff says that this is an action at law arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States and is a case for
winding up the affairs of said Boston-Continental National Bank;
and the District Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts has original jurisdiction under Section 24 of the Judicial
Code of the United States.
(Signed) By his Attorneys,
2Copy

of Bond-

No.
$40,000.00
Know all Men by these Presents That we, Westchester Discount Corporation of Mount Vernon, New York, as Principal, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 '. S.

specified sum in the event of default, which had occurred,
&c., that damages had been sustained whereby the surety
had become indebted "in the penal sum of said bond,
with interest."
the Standard Surety & Casualty Company of New York, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of New
York and having an usual place of business in Boston, as Surety, are
held and firmly bound and obliged unto the Continental National
Bank of Boston, a banking corporation duly organized under the
laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and having an usual
place of business in Boston in the County of Suffolk, in the full and
just sum of forty thousand dollars ($40,000.), to be paid to said
Continental National Bank of Boston as hereinafter provided to
which payment we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators firmly by these presents.
The condition of this obligation is such that if the said Westchester
Discount Corporation shall upon the due dates as hereinafter indicated make to the Continental National Bank of Boston full and
true payment of a schedule of four notes as listed below then this
obligation shall be void, otherwise shall remain in full force and effect.
Schedule of Notes.
Date

Amount

Maturity

Dec. 20, 1930 .............
$10,000.00
January 20, 1931
Dec. 20,1930 .............
10,000.00
February 20, 1931
Dec. 20, 1930 .............
10,000.00
March 20, 1931
Dec. 20, 1930 .............
10,000.00
April 20,1931
In the event of default on the part of the principal on any note,
the obligee shall notify the Home Office of the Surety Company at
80 John Street, New York City, New York, within ten (10) days by
registered mail, of such default, and the Surety Company shall pay
any liability hereunder, not exceeding the amount still unpaid on
any or all of the aforesaid notes and in no event exceeding forty
thousand dollars ($40,000.), said payment to be made by the Surety
within thirty days after maturity of the final note.
Witness our hands and seals, and dated this 20th day of December, A. D. 1930.
WESTCHESTER DISCOUNT CORPORATION

By

[SEAL],

JOSEPH STONE, Treas.
STANDARD SURETY

&

CASUALTY COMPANY
OF NEW YORK,

By PERcY G.

CLIFF, Attorney-in-fact.

DEITRICK v. STANDARD SURETY CO.
471

475

Opinion of the Court.

Answering, the Company denied liability and alleged
that, as the bank well knew, the bond was executed without authority, had been fraudulently obtained, was invalid.
Before the three law actions were filed the Surety Cornpany instituted four separate equitable proceedings in
the Supreme Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts,
against the bank arid makers of guaranteed notes. Each
complaint alleged that the bank had fraudulently obtained the bond and asked that it be declared null and
void. Later the Receiver became party in these causes
and all were removed to the federal court. There, he filed
separate answers, substantially alike, averring that the
bond had been duly executed, that default had taken place
and that damages amounting to the full amount of the
specified penalty had been sustained. Each answer concluded-"Wherefore these defendants pray: 1. That the
court determine the amount due from the plaintiff to
Boston-Continental Bank and John B. Cunningham, its
receiver, and order lhe plaintiff to pay the same with interest. 2. For such further relief as the court finds meet
and just."
Copies of one complaint:' and answer ' thereto, typical
of all, are in the margin.
'Bill of Complaint1., The plaintiff is a corporation legally established and existing
under the laws of the State of New York, having a usual place of
business in Boston in the County of Suffolk in this Commonwealth.
2. The defendant Boston-Continental National Bank formerly
called Continental National Bank of Boston, is a national banking
association, legally established and existing under the laws of the
United States of America, having its usual place of business in said
Boston. The defendant Westchester Discount Corporation is a corporation established and existing under the laws of the State of New
York having its usual place of business in Mount Vernon in the
County of Westchester and State of New York.
3. The plaintiff is informed and believes and therefore avers that
on or about December 20th. A. D. 1930 the defendant Westchester

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

:03 U. S.

A jury was waived in the law actions and the seven
causes went to ail Auditor and Master with instructions
Discount Corporation and one Percy G. Cliff executed an instrument
a copy of which is hereto annexed marked A and made a part' hereof,
and at the same time the defendant bank executed and delivered to
said Cliff an instrument entitled "Release" a copy of which is hereto
annexed Marked B and made a part hereof.
Thereafter, so the plaintiff is informed and believes and therefore
avers, the s.id Cliff executed the instruments entitled "Endorsements"
copies of which marked respectively C. and D. are hereto annexed
and made parts hereof.
4. The plaintiff is informed and believes and therefore avers that
all of the instruments aforesaid marked A. C. and D. were executed
by said Cliff at the request and solicitation of the defendants without
any consideration or security, without premium charged or paid or
intended to be charged or paid therefor, upon the understanding between the defendants and said Cliff that said instruments were not
binding obligations of the plaintiff, and upon the assurance and
promise given by the defendants to said Cliff and upon the understanding that said instruments would not be used or enforced by said
bank against the plaintiff, that the plaintiff should never be informed
of the existence thereof, and that after remaining in the custody of
th6 defendant bank for a short time they should be returned to said
Cliff.
5. All of the instruments above described copies of which are
hereto annexed marked A. C. and D. were executed by the stid Cliff
without authority from the plaintiff and without its knowledge or
consent, as both defendants well knew. The plaintiff has only recently learned of the existence of said instruments which are now in
the possession of the defendant bank.
Wherefore the plaintiff prays:
1. That the defendants be enjoined from enforcing or attempting
to enforce the said instruments marked A. C. and D. or any of them
by suit or otherwise.
2. That the said instruments marked A. C. and D. be declared null
and void and that the defendant bank be ordered to deliver them
up to be cancelled.
3. For such other and further relief as may be necessary and
proper.
(Signed) By its Attorneys,

DEITRICK v. STANDARD SURETY CO.
471

477

Opinion of the Court.

to report findings of fact and conclusions of law, the former
to be final. After taking much evidence he reported with
'ANSWER OF BOSTON-CONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK
AND JOHN B. CUNNINGHAM, RECEIVER OF BOSTONCONTINENTAL NATIONAL BANK.
Now come Boston Continental National Bank and John B. Cunningham, receiver of Boston-Continental National Bank, and for
answer to the plaintiff's bill of complaint say as follows:
1. They admit the allegations contained in the first paragraph of
the bill of complaint.
2. They admit the allegations contained in the second paragraph
of the bill of complaint.
3. As to the allegations contained in the third paragraph of the
bill of complaint, they say that the instrument, a copy whereof is
attached to the bill of complaint marked "A", was duly executed by
Westchester Discount Corporation by Joseph Stone, its treasurer,
and was duly executed by the plaintiff, by Percy G. Cliff, its attorney-in-fact, and that an attested copy of said Cliff's general power
of attorney was attached to the original instrument; that thereafter
the plaintiff duly executed the instruments entitled "Endorsements"
by said Cliff, its attorney-in-fact, copies of which endorsements are
attached to the bill of complaint marked "C" and "D"; that if a
purported release was delivered to said Cliff by Continental National
Bank by Terrell M. Ragan in the form attached to the bill of complaint marked "B", such purported release was delivered without
authority of the board of directors of said Continental National
Bank, was executed without consideration and is voidable and void.
Except as aforesaid, they deny the allegations contained in said paragraph 3 of the bill of complaint.
4. They deny the allegations contained in the fourth paragraph
of the bill of complaint.
5. They deny the allegations contained in the fifth paragraph of
the bill of complaint.
6. Further answering they say that the condition of said instrument, copy of which is attached to the bill of complaint marked
"A" as extended by instruments, copies of which are attached to the
bill of complaint marked "C" and "D", has been broken in that
Westchester Discount Corporation, the principal named in said instrument, has not paid the notes described therein according to their
terms, but on the contrary has failed, refused and declined to pay
said notes and still continues so to refuse, notwithstanding the fact

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

a finding of facts showing clearly that the bank obtained
the bonds through the fraud of its president, Ragan, and
Cliff, general agent of the Company. Among other things
he said: "I rule that the bonds and 'endorsements' in
suit were not binding obligations in the hands of the bank
as a going concern, for the reason that Ragan's knowledge
of their infirmities is imputed to the bank; and that the
bonds and 'endorsements' would not be binding obligations in the hands of the recei~vr, if his rights were derived solely from the bank as distinguished from its creditors." He further ruled that as Cliff, general agent of
the Surety Company, knew the bonds would be shown to
the bank directors and to any others entitled to inquire
concerning the notes described therein for the purpose of
deception, therefore "the bonds and 'endorsements' in suit
are binding obligations in the hands of the receiver due
to the fact that he represents the bank's creditors."
The District Court heard the' causes on report and exceptions. It held the bonds void and further "adjudged
ant decreed that the counterclaim of the defendant receiver, set forth in his answer, be and the same is hereby
dismissed."
that all times have elapsed and all conditions have been fulfilled
necessary to entitle Boston-Continental National Bank and John B.
Cunningham, receiver of said bank, the successors to the obligee described therein; to payment in full of said notes; that the plaintiff
was duly notified of the default in accordance with the provisions of
the said instrument; that the damages sustained by these defendants
on account of the default of said Westchester Discount Corporation
are in excess of $40,000.
Wherefore these defendants pray:
1. That the court determine the amount due from the plaintiff to
Boston-Continental NationalBank and John B. Cunningham, its
receiver, and order the plaintiff to pay the same with interest.
2. For such further relief as the court finds meet and just.
(Signed) By their Attorneys,

DEITRICK v. STANDARD SURETY CO.
471

479

Opinion of the Court.

By stipulation the causes were joined for appeal upon
a single record. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the District Court and said: "The master and auditor
held that the receiver in bringing these actions did not
derive his right of recovery through the Bank, but because
one or more creditors of the Bank were depeived, and as
he represents creditors he derived his right of action
through them. The receiver, however, makes no such allegations in his declaration." "It is clear from the pleadings that the receiver seeks to recover on these bonds as
assets of the Bank. In such an action he stands no better
than the Bank itself. All defenses open against the Bank
in such a case are open against the receiver, and he is
chargeable with knowledge of all facts known to the bank
affecting the character of the claim." "If therefore, the
contract with the Surety Company was illegal as to the
Bank, because, as the master and auditor found, the Bank
was charged with the knowledge of its president, a recovery based on the contract of surety cannot be had by the
receiver, since a recovery must be based on the pleadings,
and the allegations of liability in the plaintiff's declarations are based solely on the contract of surety." In respect of the Receiver's counterclaim set up in the equity
suits it said: "The plaintiff's counterclaim distinctly
raises the question of the validity of the bonds. The issue
of trust for the benefit of creditors is. not raised or suggested." "The obligations of the Surety Company based
on the depositors of the bank being injured by the giving
of the bonds, and the receiver's claim against the Surety
Company based on a trust relationship are not mentioned,
and, we think, are not raised by the plaintiff's counterclaim in the equity suits."
We agree with the conclusion reached by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Its judgment must be affirmed.
Counsel for the Petitioner here submit-"The Receiver's position rests primarily upon the proposition that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

circumstances surrounding the giving of the note-guaranty bonds by Cliff to the Bank accompanied by the
supporting powers of attorney, . . . and the consequences which followed the credence given to said bonds
and powers of attorney by the national bank examiners
and the Comptroller, acting as the representatives of the
depositors and other creditors, give rise, in a suit by the
Receiver to enforce the bonds, to an estoppel which precludes the Surety Company from denying the validity
of the bonds and from asserting as a defense that its agent
acted fraudulently and without authority in executing
the bonds and that a fraudulent official of the Bank knew
of the agent's misconduct."
An exarnination of the pleadings makes it quite clear
that the Receiver undertook to set up rights acquired by
the insolvent bank through duly executed contracts between it and the Surety Company. He makes no suggestion of a purpose attributable to the company to mislead
creditors or others; makes no allegations of damage except that sustained by the bank. He sets up no facts
which would render unconscionable a denial of liability
upon the bond because of the agent's fraud obviously induced by the president of, the bank. In this state of the
pleadings the Receiver may not have judgment; he cannot rely on something not complained of, nor can he have
damages because of supposed deceptions which the pleadings fail to suggest.
In Rankin v. City National Bank, 208 U. S. 541, 545,
546, a suit by the receiver of the Capitol National Bank
of Guthrie to recover the amount of an alleged deposit
where it appeared "that the whole business, from beginning to end, was and was intended to be a mere juggle
with books and papers to deceive the bank examiner,"
this Court denied the receiver's claim and said: "If the
Guthrie Bank had sued while it was a going concern it
could not have recovered, and the receiver stands no bet-

DEITRICK v. STANDARD SURETY CO.

481

BLACK, J., dissenting.

471

ter than the bank." We adhere to the doctrine there
approved and regard it as decisive of the present cause.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
When two or more persons have jointly perpetrated
a fraud with intent to injure others, justice and law combine to entitle injured parties to recover-from any or all
of the conspirators. Corporations can act only through
agents. When, as here, two corporations, acting through
authorized agents, have jointly perpetrated a fraud which
was intended to-and did-injure others, a just rule of
law should likewise hold both corporations joitly and
severally responsible for the damages inflicted by them
upon innocent parties.

In this case innocent depositors and other creditors of
a now insolvent national bank suffered damages as a
direct result of fraud wilfully perpetrated on them by
joint action of the bank and the respondent surety corporation, acting through their agents. Because of the
guilty participation of the bank president in this fraud,
the opinion just read denies the receiver of the insolvent
bank a recovery which would inure to the benefit of the
innocent depositors. At the same time, however, the
respondent surety corporation is freed from any responsibility to these innocent parties, in spite of the admitted
guilty participation of its agent. That the agent of the
respondent surety corporation was authorized to write
the indemnity bonds used -in the fraud is disclosed by the
findings of the master and auditor-acting "under a stipulation that findings of fact shall be final." These findings
show that:
The duly licensed agent of the surety company (respondent) conspired with the president of the bank to
53883 °--88.31

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

supply indemnity bonds guaranteeing the payment of
certain notes held by the bank, which bonds were to be
placed among the assets of the bank for the purpose of
deceiving federal bank examiners, the bank's directors
and all others entitled to inquire as to the soundness of
the notes; the surety company's agent also personally assured the examiners that the bonds were all right; no
premium was paid the surety company and the bonds
were intended by the respondent's duly authorized agent
and the president of the bank to be valueless and used
as "window dressings" to accomplish deceptions; respondent's duly licensed agent had a power of attorney
"to make, execute and deliver . . . for and on its behalf
as surety, any and all bonds . . . undertakings, or anything in the nature of any of them, . . . to all intents
and purposes as if same had been duly executed and acknowledged by the regularly elected officers of the coinpany . . . "; a copy of the power of attorney was attached to the bonds and the examiners inspected public
records and verified the authenticity of this power of
attorney; these bonds were executed after the examiners
had notified the bank to make good an impairment of
capital and the execution of these bonds caused the comptroller to withdraw his order to make good the impairment and as a result the bank continued to remain open,
assumed additional obligations, and accepted further deposits in large amounts.
Since the receiver represents the creditors as well as
the bank 1 he can sue in his own name to recover assets
1 Case v. Terrell, 11 Wall. 199, 202; High, "On Receivers," 4th ed.,
§§ 314, 320; In re Pleasant Hill Lumber Co., 126 La. 743, 757;
52 So. 1010; Duke v. Stayton Co., 132 Wash. 69, 77; 231 Pac. 171;
Atlantic Trust Co. v. Dana, 128 Fed. 209, 221; De Stafano v. Almond
Co., 107 N. J. Eq. 156, 159; 152 Atl. 2; Industrial Mut. Dep. Co.'s
Receiver v. Taylor, 118 Ky. 851, 854; 82 S. W. 574; Iglehart v. Todd,
203 Ind. 427, 440; 178 N. E. 685.

DEITRICK v. STANDARD SURETY CO.
471

483

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

on behalf of the bank or its creditors. 2 "It is the duty
of the receiver of an insolvent corporation to take steps
to set aside transactions which fraudulently or illegally
reduce the assets available for the general creditors, even
though the corporation itself was not in a position to
do so." Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorff, 291 U. S.
245, 261. There is no occasion to consider whether the
bank could recover against the insurance company oan
the indemnity bonds. "Enough that the receiver has the
requisite capacity." McCandless v. Furlaud, 296 U. S.
140, 160. In the McCandless case (page 171), the minority view was that "the receiver's rights could rise no
higher" than the corporation's rights. The majority rejected this viewpoint (page 159), holding that where corporate officers and shareholders combined with others to
despoil a corporation, recovery could be had "either by
the creditors directly or in their behalf by a receiver."
The receiver does not merely represent the corporation-the bank. The object of the appointment of a receiver is to collect and protect all of the insolvent's assets
in the interest, of the creditors first, then for the benefit of
the stockholders. It has long bean recognized that even
in the case of a going bank the rights of depositors and
the public would be jeopardized unless given protection
in addition to that afforded by the bank's officers elected
by the stockholders. For that reason, among others, the
Government has provided a system of examination for
all national banks.2 Statutes require banks to make reports to the Comptroller of the Currency and to permit
examinations by federal bank examiners. These examinations are designed to prevent such frauds as were perpetrated in this case. This objective will be frustrated if
surety companies-with
complete
immunity-can,
through their authorized agents, conspire with bank offi2

See, Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498, 506.
See, Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220, 238.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

cials to deceive and trick bank examiners. The convenient fiction that knowledge of an officer of the bank
is imputed to the bank itself is not sufficient to relieve
respondent surety company from the consequences of the
wrong committed by its authorized agent. There is not

even a fiction under which knowledge can be imputed to
innocent depositors. Strange, indeed, it is if the elaborate system of precautions provided by the Government
to protect the interests of creditors of national banks by
examination and visitation of federal officials must be
held for naught by application of the fiction that the
bank-not the injured depositors-knew everything its
president knew. The interests of the bank and the interests of the depositors and creditors are not always identical. That their interests are recognized as separate
and distinguishable is amply shown by laws passed to protect depositors and creditors of national banks. Public
solicitude for protection of depositors is exemplified by the
recent passage of the law insuring public deposits.'
The receiver filed suits at law side to recover on the
several indemnity bonds. The surety company proceeded
in equity praying cancellation of the bonds. All actions were tried on evidence before a master and auditor
"under a stipulation that findings of fact shall be final."
These findings set forth all of the rights of the receiver
as the representative of the creditors, the stockholders
and the bank.
In this case, the principles involved are of great importance. The decree below adjudged the indemnity
bonds to be void and unenforceable. Since I believe the
receiver was entitled under these actions to enforce the
bonds and to protect the innocent victims of fraud, I
would reverse the decree below.
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs
4

12 U. S. C. § 264 et seq.

in this opinion.

