OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

36

Syllabus.

303 U. S.

"3. It was highly incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial, and in its nature highly prejudicial to the defendant.
Its admission was not necessary to clarify 76-A and it
was not related to 76-B."
We think this assignment adequately met the applicable requirements of Rule 11. Clearly, it quoted the
full substance of the evidence admitted and was definite
enough to enable both court and opposing counsel readily
to perceive the point intended to be relied on. Seaboard
Air Line Ry. Co. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 91.
Other assignments also seem sufficiently definite and
formal to demand consideration. We do not pass upon
the merits of any assignment and decide only that some,
if not all, of them were improperly rejected.
The challenged judgment must be reversed. The cause
will be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
further proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the considera-

tion and decision of this case.
MUNRO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 218.

Argued January 6, 7, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

1. A suit in the District Court to recover on a War Risk insurance
policy, the procedure in which is the same as that provided in
§§ 5 and 6 of the Tucker Act, was not brought in time to toll
the statute of limitations where the complaint was not filed with
the clerk of the court before the period of limitations expired.
P. 39.
To commence the suit in accordance with §§ 5 and 6 of the
Tucker Act, it was not enough to serve a copy of the summons
upon the District Attorney and mail another to the Attorney
General.

MUNRO v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

36.

2. Suits against the United States can be maintained only by permission, in the manner proscribed and subject to the restrictions
imposed. The Conformity Act can not be relied upon to change
any of these. P. 41.
3. A District Attorney has no power to waive conditions or limitations imposed by statute in respect of suits against the United
States. Id.
89 F. (2d) 614, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 668, to review the reversal of a

judgment against the United States in a suit on a War
Risk Insurance claim.
Messrs. Alger A. Williams and Charles H. Kendall,
with whom Mr. George Clinton, Jr., was on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Julius C. Martin, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, and Messrs. Wilbur C. Pickett, Fendall Marbury,
and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Charles B. Rugg, H. Brian
Holland,and Warren F. Farrfiled a brief on behalf of the
Bates Manufacturing Co., as amicus curiae, in support
of petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Certiorari was granted because of conflicting views in
the lower courts.
Claiming to be permanently and totally disabled, petitioner instituted an action in the United States District
Court, Western District of New York, to recover under a
War Risk Insurance Policy. He was honorably discharged
in 1919.
Before the cause came on for trial respondent moved
for dismissal because the action was not brought within

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

the time prescribed by § 19, World War Veterans Act
1924, as amended by Act July 3, 1930, 46 Stat. 992, copied
in the margin.' This motion was overruled. Whether
properly so, is the matter for our consideration.
'Act of July 3, 1930, c. 849, 46 Stat. 992.
"See. 19. In the event of disagreement as to claim, including claim
for refund of premiums, under a contract of insurance between the
bureau and any person or persons claiming thereunder an action
on the claim may be brought against the United States either in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia or in the district
court of the United States in and for the district in which such
persons or any one of them resides, and jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon-such courts to hear and determine all such controversies.
The procedure in such suits shall be the same as that provided in
sections 5 and 6 of the Act entitled 'An Act to provide for the
bringing of suits against the Government of the United States,'
approved March 3, 1887, and section 10 thereof so far as
applicable. ....
"No suit on yearly renewable term insurance shall be allowed
under this section unless the same shall have been brought within six
years after the right accrued for which the claim is made or within
one year after the date of approval of this amendatory Act, whichever is the later date, and no suit on United States Government
life (converted) insurance shall be allowed under this section unless
the same shall have been brought within six years after the right
accrued for which the claim is made; Provided, that for the purposes
of this section it shall be deemed that the. right accrued on the happening of the contingency on which the claim is founded: Provided
further, That this limitation is suspended for the period lapsing
between the filing in the bureau of the claim sued upon and the
denial of said claim by the director. .. "
Tucker Act, March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 506.
Sec. 5; U. S. C., Title 28, § 762.
"Petition in suit against United States. The plaintiff in any auit
brought under the provisions of section 41, paragraph 20, of this
title shall file a petition, duly verified with the clerk of the respective court having jurisdiction of the case, and in the district where
the plaintiff resides. Such petition shall set forth the full name
and residence of the plaintiff, the nature of his claim, and a succinct
statement of the facts upon which the clai~n is based, the money or
any other thing claimed, or the damages sought to be recovered

MUNRO v. UNITED STATES.
36

Opinion of the Court.

By concession it was necessary to bring suit not later
than July 1, 1933.
March 16, 1933, a praecipe for issuance of summons
was filed with the Clerk of the District Court; on the
same day copy of the summons was served upon the
United States Attorney in Buffalo and another mailed to
the Attorney General at Washington; no copy of the complaint was served upon the United States Attorney until
July 26, 1933; the original complaint was not filed with
the Clerk until April 23, 1936.
February 15, 1934, the United States Attorney filed an
answer without questioning the timeliness of the suit;
a year later he moved to dismiss. The cause was heard in
April, 1936; judgment went for the assured July 29, 1936.
In following the above described procedure petitioner's
counsel acted upon information given by the Assistant
United States Attorney, who declared that service of
summons would suffice to give jurisdiction and toll the
statute; that complaint might be served thereafter.
Two points are presented. Did procuring the summons, serving one copy on the United States Attorney
and sending another to the Attorney General begin the
and praying the court for a judgment or decree upon the facts and
law."
See. 6; U. S. C., Title 28, § 763.
"Service; appearance by district attorney. The plaintiff shall cause
a copy of his petition filed under section 762 of this title, to be

served upon the district attorney of the United States in the district
wherein suit is brought, and shall mail a copy of the same, by registered letter, to the Attorney General of the United States, and shall
thereupon cause to be filed with the clerk of the court wherein suit
is instituted an affidavit of such service and the mailing of such letter.
It shall be the duty of the district attorney upon whom service of
petition is made as aforesaid to appear and defend the interests of the
Government in the suit, and within sixty days after the service of
petition upon him, unless the time should be extendedby order of the
court made in the case to file a plea, answer, or demurrer on the
part of the Government,

40.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

suit within the requirement of the statute? If not, do the
circumstances establish waiver of the defense that suit
was out of time.
Section 19, Act of 1924, permits an action on a War
Risk policy to be brought in the United States District
Court for the district in which the claimant resides. Also
directs, "The procedure insuch suits shall be the same as
that provided in Sections 5 and 6" (§ § 762 and 763, Title
28, U. S. C.) of the Tucker Act of March 3, 1887, "and
Section 10 thereof [§ 765, Title 28, U. S. C.] insofar as
applicable." Sec. 5 of the Tucker Act provides that the
plaintiff "shall file a petition" with the Clerk of the court,
containing a succinct statement of the facts upon which
the claim is based; Sec. 6 that he shall cause one copy
of this to be served upon the District Attorney and mail
another to the Attorney General. These requirements
were not complied with prior to July 1, 1933.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held the suit was not
brought in time to toll the statute, and with this conclusion we agree. The opinion there adequately refers to
the sundry opinions which have considered the subject,
discloses the claims of the parties and reasons for the
judgment.
Affirmation here, upon authority of United States v.
Larkin, 208 U. S. 333, of the District Court's judgment
in United States v. Mill Creek, etc., and two similar causes
(Nos. 103, 104, 105, Oct. Term 1919), 251 U. S. 539,
cannot properly be regarded as authority for a view contrary to the one we now approve. Those causes came up
under a statute which permitted direct appeals from District Courts solely upon questions of jurisdiction. We
determined only that the District Court had power to
hear and rule upon the questions presented to it-among
them whether the suits were brought in .time. The merits
of the controversy-whether in reality the suits were in
time-we did not consider. Examination of the opin-

MYERS v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
36

Syllabus.

ion in Larkin's case and the statute then in force will
make this clear enough.
Suits against the United States can be maintained only
by permission, in the manner prescribed and subject to
the restrictions imposed. Reid v. United States, 211 U. S.
529, 538. The Conformity Act cannot be relied upon to
change any of these.
The District Attorney had no power to waive conditions or limitations imposed by statute in respect of suits
against the United States. Finn v. United States, 123
U. S. 227, 233. Judgment against them is not permissible
if first sought after expiration of the time allowed.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

MYERS

ET AL.

v. BETHLEHEM SHIPBUILDING
CORP.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 181.

Argued January 5, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

1. The National Labor Relations Board, upon a charge made to it,
issued a complaint against a corporation engaged, at the plant
involved, in the building and sale of ships, boats and marine
equipment. The complaint alleged that the corporation dominated and interfered, in a manner described, with a labor organization of its employees, and was thus engaged in unfair labor
practices affecting commerce within the meaning of the National
Labor Relations Act of July 5, 1935. The corporation was given
notice of a hearing to be had upon the complaint. Held:
(1) That the District Court had no jurisdiction of a suit by the

corpdration to enjoin the Board from holding the hearing. P. 47.
*Together with No. 182, Myers et al. v. MacKenzie et al., also
on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit.

