OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
.. labus.

WESTERN LIVE STOCK
REVENUE

ET AL. v.
ET AL.

303 U. S.

BUREAU OF

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW MEXICO.

No. 322.

Argued January 31, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. The mere formation of a contract between persons of different
States is not within the protection of the commerce clause, unless
the performance is within its protection, at least in the absence of
Congressional action. P. 253.
2. Taxation of a local business or occupation which is separate and
.distinct from the transportation and intercourse which are interstate commerce is not forbidden merely because, in the ordinary
course, such transportation or intercourse is induced or occasioned
by the business. P. 253.
3. A statute of New Mexico levied on all engaged within the State
in the business of publishing newspapers or magazines a privilege
tax of 2% on the gross receipts from the sale of advertising.
Appellants, whose only office and place of business was within
the State, prepared, edited and published there a journal, the
circulation of which was partly interstate. Part of their receipts
from advertising was derived from contracts with advertisers out
of the State. Such contracts involved interstate transmission,
from advertisers to appellants, of cuts, mats, information, copy,
etc.; also payment through interstate facilities. Held, the tax
as applied to appellants in respect of the sums received under
such advertising contracts did not infringe the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 259-260.
So far as the advertising rates reflected a value attributable
to the maintenance of a circulation of the magazine interstate,
the burden on the interstate business was too remote and too
attenuated to call for a rigidly logical application of the doctrine
that gross receipts from interstate commerce may not be made the
measure of a tax.
4. The commerce clause does not relieve those engaged in interstate commerce from their just share of the state tax burden,
even though the cost of doing the business be thereby increased.
P. 254.
5. The vice characteristic of such local taxes, measured by gross
receipts from interstate commerce, as have been held invalid, was
that they placed on the commerce burdens of such a nature as

WESTERN LIVE STOCK v. BUREAU.
250

251

Opinion of the Court.

were capable, in point of substance, of being imposed, or added
to, with equal right by every State which the commerce touched,
merely because interstate commerce was being done, so that without the protection of the commerce clause it would bear cumulative burdens not imposed on local commerce. The tax here involved is not subject to that objection. P. 255.
6. The business of preparing, printing and publishing magazine advertising is peculiarly local and distinct from its circulation whether
or not that circulation be interstate commerce. P. 258.
7. In reconciling opposing demands that interstate commerce bear
its share of local taxation, and, on the other hand, not be subjected to multiple tax burdens merely because it is interstate
commerce, practical rather than logical distinctions must be
sought. P. 259.
8. Fis-her's Blend Station v. State Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650, and
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, distinguished.
Pp. 200-261.
41 N. M. 288; 67 P. 2d 505, affirmed.
Appeal from a judgment affirming a judgment against

the appellants in a suit brought by them to recover taxes
paid under protest and alleged to have been unlawfully
exacted.

Mr. D. A. Macpherson, Jr., with whom Mr. J. R.
Modrall was on the brief, for appellants.

Mr. Frank H. Patton, Attorney General, with whom

Mr. Richard E. Manson, Assistant Attorney General, of
New Mexico, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

Section 201, c. 7, of the New Mexico Special Session
Laws of 1934, levies a privilege tax upon the gross receipts of those engaged in certain specified businesses.1 "See.

201. There is hereby levied, and shall be collected by the
Tax Commission, privilege taxes, measfired by the amount or volume
of business done, against the persons, on account of their business

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Subdivision I imposes a tax of 2% of amounts received
from the sale of advertising space by one engaged in the
business of publishing newspapers or magazines. The
question for decision is whether the tax laid under this
statute on appellants, who sell without the state, to advertisers there; space in a journal which they publish in
New Mexico and circulate to subscribers within and without the state, imposes an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce.
Appellants brought the present suit in the state district
court to recover the tax, which they had paid under protest, as exacted in violation of the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution. The trial court overruled a demurrer to the complaint and gave judgment for appellants, which the Supreme Court reversed. 41 N. M. 141;
65 P. 2d 863. Appellants refusing to plead further, the
district court gave judgment for the appellees, which the
Supreme Court affirmed. 41 N. M. 288; 67 P. 2d 505.
The case comes here on appeal from the second judgment
under § 237 of the Judicial Code.
Appellants publish a monthly livestock trade journal
which they wholly prepare, edit, and publish within the
state of New Mexico, where their only office and place
of business is located. The journal has a circulation in
New Mexico and other states, being distributed to paid
subscribers through the mails or by other means of transportation. It carries advertisements, some of which are
activities, engaging, or continuing, within the State of New Mexico,
in any business as herein defined, and in the amounts determined by
the application of rates against gross receipts, as follows:
"I-At an amount equal to two percent of the gross receipts of
any person engaging or continuing in any of the following businesses: . . . publication of newspapers and magazines (but the
gross receipts of the business of publishing newspapers or magazines
shall include only the amounts received for the sale of advertising
space) . ."

WESTERN LIVE STOCK v. BUREAU.
250

253

Opinion of the Court.

obtained from advertisers in other states through appellants' solicitation there. Where such contracts are entered into, payment is made by remittances to appellants
sent interstate; and the contracts contemplate and provide for the interstate shipment by the advertisers to appellants of advertising cuts, mats, information and copy.
Payment is due after the printing of such advertisements
in the journal and its ultimate circulation and distribution, which is alleged to be in New Mexico and other
states.
Appellants insist here, as they did in the state courts,
that the sums earned under the advertising contracts are
immune from the tax because the contracts are entered
into by transactions across state lines and result in the
like transmission of advertising materials by advertisers
to appellants, and also because performance involves the
mailing or other distribution of appellants' magazines to
points without the state.
That the mere formation of a contract between persons
in different states is not within the protection of the commerce clause, at least in the absence of Congressional
action, unless the performance is within its.protection, is
a proposition no longer open to question. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648;
New York Life Ins. Co. v. Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S.
495; cf. Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405;
Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128. Hence it is unnecessary
to consider the impact of the tax upon the advertising
contracts except as it affects their performance, presently
to be discussed. Nor is taxation of a local business or
occupation which is separate and distinct from the transportation and intercourse which is interstate commerce
forbidden merely because in the ordinary course such
transportation or intercourse is induced or occasioned by
the business. Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270; Ware &
Leland v. Mobile County, supra; Browning v. Waycross,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

233 U. S. 16; General Railway Signal Co. v. Virginia, 246
U. S. 500, 510; Utah Power & Light Co. v. PJost, 286 U. S.
165. Here the tax which is laid on the compensation
received under the contract is not forbidden either because
the contract, apart from its performance, is within the
protection of the commerce clause, or because as an incident preliminary to printing and publishing the advertisements the advertisers send cuts, copy and the like to
appellants.
We turn to the other and more vexed question, whether
the tax is invalid because the performance of the contract, for which the compensation is paid, involves to some
extent the distribution, interstate, of some copies of the
magazine containing the advertisements. We lay to one
side the fact that appellants do not allege specifically that
the contract stipulates that the advertisements shall be
sent to subscribers out of the state, or is so framed that
the compensation would not be earned if subscribers outside the state should cancel their subscriptions. We assume the point in appellants' favor and address ourselves
to their argument that the.present tax infringes the commerce clause because it is measured by gross receipts
which are to some extent augmented by appellants' maintenance of an interstate circulation of their magazine.
It was not the purpose of the commerce clause to relieve those engaged in interstate commerce from their
just share of state tax burden even though it increases the
cost of doing the business. "Even interstate business
must pay its way," Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252, 259; Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., 145 U. S. 1, 24; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v.
Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 696; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co.
v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 225, 227, and the bare fact that
one is carrying on interstate commerce does not relieve
him from many forms of state taxation which add to the
cost of his business. He is subject to a property tax on

WESTERN LIVE STOCK v. BUREAU.
250

255

Opinion of the Court.

the instruments employed in the commerce. Western
Union Teleg. Co. v. Attorney General, 125 U. S. 530;
Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S.
439; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S.
194; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Missouri ex rel. Gottlieb, 190
U. S. 412; Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S.
299, and if the property devoted to interstate transportation is used both within and without the state a tax fairly
apportioned to its use within the state will be sustained.
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18;
Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450. Net
earnings from interstate commerce are subject to income
tax, United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321,
and if the commerce is carried on by a corporation a franchise tax may be imposed, measured by the net income
from business done within the state, including such portion of the income derived from interstate commerce as
may be justly attributable to business done within the
state by a fair method of apportionment. Underwood
Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113; cf. Bass,
Ratclifl & Gretton v. State Tax Comm'n, 266 U. S. 271.
All of these taxes in one way or another add to the
expense of carrying on interstate commerce, and in that
sense burden it; but they are not for that reason prohibited. On the other hand, local taxes, measured by
gross receipts from interstate commerce, have often been
pronounced unconstitutional. The vice characteristic of
those which have been held invalid is that they have
placed on the commerce burdens of such a nature as to be
capable, in point of substance, of being imposed (Fargo
v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Philadelphia& Sou. S. S. Co.
v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326; Galveston, H. & S. A. R.
Co. v. Texas, supra; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223
U. S. 298) or added to (Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,
245 U. S. 292; Fisher's Blend Station v. State Tax-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650) with equal right by every state
which the commerce touches, merely because interstate
commerce is being done, so that without the protection
of the conmerce clause it would bear cumulative burdens
not imposed on local commerce. See Philadelphia& Sou.
S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, 346; Case of State Freight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 280; Bradley, J., dissenting in Maine
v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217, 235; cf. Pullman's
Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, 26. The multiplication of state taxes measured by the gross receipts
from interstate transactions would spell the destruction
of interstate commerce and renew the barriers to interstate trade which it was the object of the commerce clause
to remove. Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig,'Inc., 294 U. S.
511, 523.
It is for these reasons that a state may not lay a tax
measured by the amount of merchandise carried in interstate commerce, Case of State Freight Tax, supra, or
upon the freight earned by its carriage. Fargo v. Michigan, supra; Philadelphia& Sou. S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
supra, restricting the effect of State Tax on Railway Gross
Receipts, 15 Wall. 284, with which compare Miller, J.,
dissenting in that case at p. 297. Taxation measured by
gross receipts from interstate commerce has been sustained when fairly apportioned to the commerce carried
on within the taxing state, Wisconsin & M. Ry. Co. v.
Powers, 191 U. S. 379; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co.,
supra; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, supra; United
States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, and in
other cases has been rejected only because the apportionment was found to be inadequate or unfair. Fargo v.
Michigan, supra; Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas,
-supra; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co., supra, with which
compare Wisconsin & M. Ry. Co. v. Powers, supra.
Whether the tax was sustained as a fair means of measuring a local privilege or franchise, as in Maine v. Grand
Trunk Ry. Co., supra; Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing

WESTERN LIVE STOCK v. BUREAU.

257

Opinion of the Court.

250

Dist., supra; American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis,
250 U. S. 459, or as a method of arriving at the fair
measure of a tax substituted for local property taxes,
Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, supra; United States
Express Co. v. Minnesota, supra; cf. Postal Telegraph
Cable Co. v. Adams, supra; see McHenry v. Alford, 168
U. S. 651, 670-671, it is a practical way of laying upon
the commerce its share of the local tax burden without
subjecting it to multiple taxation not borne by local commerce and to which it would be subject if gross receipts,
unapportioned, could be made the measure of a tax laid
in every state where the commerce is carried on. A tax
on gross receipts from tolls for the use by interstate trains
of tracks lying wholly within the taxing state is valid,
New York, L. E. & TV. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S.
431; cf. Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S.
150, although a like tax on gross receipts from the rental
of railroad cars used in interstate commerce both within
and without the taxing state is invalid. Fargo v. Michigan, supra. In the one case the tax reaches only that
part of the commerce carried on within the taxing state;
in the other it extends to the commerce carried on without the state, boundaries, and, if valid, could be similarly
laid in every other state in which the business is conducted.
In the present case the tax is, in form and substance, an
excise conditioned on the carrying on of a local business,
that of providing and selling advertising space in a published journal, which is sold to and paid for by subscribers,
some of whom receive it in interstate commerce. The
price at which the advertising is sold is made the measure
of the tax. This Court has sustained a similar tax said
to be on the privilege of manufacturing, measured by the
total gross receipts from sales of the manufactured goods
both intrastate and interstate. American Manufacturing
Co. v. St. Louis, supra,462. The actual sales prices which
53383°-38-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

measured the tax were taken to be no more than the measure of the value of the goods manufactured, and so an appropriate measure of the value of the privilege, the taxation
of which was deferred until the goods were sold. Ficklen
v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., supra, sustained a license
tax measured by a percentage of the gross annual commissions received by brokers engaged in negotiating sales
within for sellers without the state.
Viewed only as authority, American ManufacturingCo.
v. St. Louis, supra, would seem decisive of the present
case. But we think the tax assailed here finds support in
reason, and in the practical needs of a taxing system
which, under constitutional limitations, must accommodate itself to the double demand that interstate business
shall pay its way, and that at the same time it shall not
be burdened with cumulative exactions which are not
similarly laid on local business.
As we have said, the carrying on of a local business
may be made the condition of state taxation, if it is distinct from interstate commerce, and the business of preparing, printing and publishing magazine advertising is
peculiarly local and distinct from its circulation whether
or not that circulation be interstate commerce. Cf.
Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, 302
U. S. 90, 94.. No one would doubt that the tax on the
privilege would be valid if it were measured by the
amount of advertising space sold. Utah Power & Light
Co. v. Plost, supra; Federal Compress & W. Co. v.
McLean, 291 U. S. 17, or by its value. Oliver Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Hope Natural Gas Co.
v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284. Selling price, taken as a measure
of value whose accuracy appellants do not challenge, is
for all practical purposes a convenient means of arriving
at an equitable measure of the burden which may be
imposed on an admittedly taxable subject matter. Unlike the measure of the tax sustained in American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, supra, it does not embrace

WESTERN LIVE STOCK v. BUREAU.
250

259

Opinion of the Court.

the purchase price (here the magazine subscription price)
of the articles shipped in interstate commerce. So far
as the advertising rates reflect a value attributable to
the maintenance of a circulation of the magazine interstate, we think the burden on the interstate business is
too remote and too attenuated to call for a rigidly logical
application of the doctrine that gross receipts from interstate commerce may not be made the measure of a tax.
Experience has taught that the opposing demands that
the commerce shall bear its share of local taxation, and
that it shall not, on the other hand, be subjected to
multiple tax burdens merely because it is interstate commerce, are not capable of reconciliation by resort to the
syllogism. Practical rather than logical distinctions must
be sought. See Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas,
supra., 227. Recognizing that not every local law that
affects commerce is a regulation of it in a constitutional
sense, this Court has held that local taxes may be laid
on property used in the commerce; that its value for taxation may include the augmentation attributable to the
commerce in which it is employed; and, finally, that the
equivalent of that value may be computed by a measure
related to gross receipts when a tax of the latter is substituted for a tax of the former. See Galveston, H. &
S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, supra, 225.
Here it is perhaps enough that the privilege taxed is of
a type which has been regarded as so separate and distinct from interstate transportation as to admit of different treatment for purposes of taxation, Utah Light &
Power Co v. Pfost, supra; Federal Compress & W. Co.
v. McLean, supra; Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S.
584, and that the value of the privilege is fairly measured
by the receipts. The tax is not invalid because the value
is enhanced by appellant's circulation of their journal
interstate any more than property taxes on railroads are
invalid because property value is increased by the circumstance that the railroads do an interstate business.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

But there is an added reason why we think the tax is
not subject to the objection which has been leveled at
taxes laid upon gross receipts derived from interstate
communication or transportation of goods. So far as the
value contributed to appellants' New Mexico business by
circulation of the magazine interstate is taxed, it cannot
again be taxed elsewhere any more than the value of railroad property taxed locally. The tax is not one which
in form or substance can be repeated by other states in
such manner as to lay an added burden on the interstate
distribution of the magazine. As already noted, receipts
from subscriptions are not included in the measure of the
tax. It is not measured by the extent of the circulation
of the magazine, interstate. All the events upon which
the tax is conditioned-the preparation, printing and
publication of the advertising matter, and the receipt of
the sums paid for it-occur in New Mexico and not elsewhere. All are beyond any control and taxing power
which, without the commerce clause, those states could
exert through its dominion over the distribution of the
magazine or its subscribers. The dangers which may
ensue from the imposition of a tax measured by gross receipts derived directly from interstate commerce are
absent.
In this and other ways the case differs from Fisher's
Blend Station v. State Tax Comm'n, supra, on which appellants rely. There the exaction was a privilege tax
laid upon the occupation of broadcasting, which the Court
held was itself interstate communication, comparable to
that carried on by the telegraph and the telephone, and
was measured by the gross receipts derived from that
commerce. If broadcasting could be tax-d, so also could
reception. Station WBT, Inc. v. Poulnot,46 F. (2d) 671.2
2 Great Britain levies an annual license tax on radio receiving
apparatus. See Wireless Telegraphy Act of 1904, c. 24, 4 Edw. 7, as
explained .by c. 67, 15 & 16 Geo. 5, and implemented by regulation
printed in Great Britain, Post Office Guide, July, 1936.

LABOR BD. v. GREYHOUND LINES.
250

Syllabus.

In that event a cumulative tax burden would be imposed
on interstate communication such as might ensue if gross
receipts from interstate transportation could be taxed.
This was the vice of the tax of a percentage of the gross
receipts from goods sold by a wholesaler in interstate commerce, held invalid in Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,
supra. In form and in substance the tax was thought
not to be one for the privilege of doing a local business
separable from interstate commerce. Cf. American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, supra. In none of these respects is the present tax objectionable.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. PENNSYLVANIA GREYHOUND LINES, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 413.

Argued February 4, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. Upon a finding that an employer has created and fostered a
labor organization of employees and dominated its administration
in violation of § 8 (1), (2) of the National Labor Relations
Act of July 5, 1935, the National Labor Relations Board has authority, under § 10 (c) of the Act, in addition to ordering the
employer to cease these practices, to require him to withdraw all
recognition of the organization as the representative of his employees and to post notices informing them of such withdrawal.
Pp. 263, 268.
2. Whether continued recognition -by the employer of the employees'
association would in itself be a continuing obstacle to the exercise
of the employees' right of self-organization and to bargain col-

