LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
315

Syllabus.

change traffic with one or the other of the pooling roads,
or with their connections. If the private interest of any
such outside carrier should move it to refuse its assent to
the arrangement it could, in the view urged by the appellant, veto the proposal although, on the whole and in
the long view, the consummation of the plan might
greatly enhance the economies of operation of large and
important carriers and so promote the public interest.
We cannot believe that every carrier, in such sense affected
by a proposed pool to which it is not a party, was intended
to have a status different from, and perhaps at war with,
the interest of the general public in the efficient and economical operation of the railroads envisaged by the Transportation Act.
We conclude that not only the words of the statute but
the obvious policy and intent underlying its provisions
require an affirmance of the judgment of the District
Court.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
LAUF ET AL. v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 293.

Argued January 12, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. An unincorporated labor union demanded of an employer that
he require all his employees, none of whom belonged to the union,
on pain of dismissal, to join it and make it their bargaining agent.
The employees, though left free in the matter by the employer,
refused .to join, having an organization of their own. The employer having rejected the demand, the members of the union, for
the purpose of coercing him and in a conspiracy to destroy his

business if he refused to yield, caused false and misleading signs
to be placed before his markets; caused persons who were not his

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

303 U. S.

employees to parade and picket before the markets; falsely accused
him of being unfair to organized labor in dealings with employees,
and, by molestation, annoyance, threats, and intimidation, prevented patrons and prospective patrons of the employer from
patronizing the markets. Irreparable injury resulted. Held:
(1) That there was a "labor dispute" within the meaning of
Wisconsin Labor Code, §§ 103.62, 103.53, and of the NorrisLaGuardia Act, 29 U. S. C. § 113 (c). P. 327.
(2) In a suit brought by the employer against the union for an
injunction, the substantive rights of the parties were governed
by the state law, as construed by the state Supreme Court. Id.
(3) An injunction was too broad which included peaceful picketing, advertising the employer as unfair to organized labor,
solicitation of customers not to trade, etc., these being acts which
are made lawful by the Wisconsin Labor Code, § 103.53, if
fraud, violence or threat thereof are not involved. P. 328.
(4) The District Court was without jurisdiction to grant an
injunction in the absence of findings of fact required by the NorrisLaGuardia Act, 29 U. S. C. § 117. P. 329.
(5) The declarations of policy in the two Acts mentioned,
to the effect that employees shall have full freedom of association, designation of representatives of their own choosing, etc.,
free from coercion of their employers, did not put the case beyond the scope of those Acts, since those declarations do not
narrow the definition of "labor dispute" in the Acts; and the
rights of the parties and the jurisdiction of the federal courts are
to be determined according to the express provisions applicable
to labor disputes as so defined. P. 330.
2. Since the courts below did not pass on the questions of the legality under the Wisconsin law, of the acts charged to have been
done by the union, or the constitutionality of that law in legalizing any of such acts, no opinion is expressed on these questions,
and the case is remanded. P. 330.
90 F. 2d 250, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 669, to review the affirmance of
a decree permanently enjoining acts on the part of a
labor union,-picketing, parade of misleading signs, solicitation of customers, etc.-directed against the plaintiff, a retail dealer in meats. See also 82 F. 2d 68.

LAUF v. E G. SHINNER & CO.
323

325

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. W. Richter argued the cause, and Mr. Morris
Iromkin was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Walter L. Gold for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to restrain the petitioners from picketing
the respondent's place of business; from coercing the respondent to discharge any of its employes who do not
belong to the petitioning union, or to compel them to become members of the union and to accept it as their bargaining agent and representative; and from advertising
that the respondent is unfair to organized labor, or molesting customers or prospective customers or persuading
them to cease patronizing it. After a hearing, and upon
findings of fact and conclusions of law, the District Court
granted a preliminary injunction. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed.1 Upon final hearing the parties relied
upon the record as made in the preliminary hearing and
some additional testimony.
The District Court found the following facts: The respondent is a Delaware corporation maintaining five meat
markets in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The petitioners are,
respectively, an unincorporated labor union and its business manager, citizens and residents of Wisconsin. The
respondent's employes number about thirty-five; none
of them are members of the petitioning union. The petitioners made demand upon the respondent to require its
employes, as a condition of their continued employment,
to become members of the union. The respondent notified the employes that they were free to do this and that
it was willing to permit them to join but they declined
I Lauf v. Shinner & Co., 82 F. (2d) 68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

and refused to join. The union had not been chosen by
the employes to represent them in any matter connected
with the respondent. For the purpose of coercing the
respondent to require its employes to join the union
and to accept it as their bargaining agent and representative, as a condition of continued employment, and for
the purpose of injuring and destroying the business if the
respondent refused to yield to such coercion, the petitioners conspired to do the following things and did them:
They caused false and misleading signs to be placed before the respondent's markets; caused persons who were
not respondent's employes to parade and picket before
the markets; falsely accused respondent of being unfair
to organized labor in its dealings with employes, and, by
molestation, annoyance, threats, and intimidation prevented patrons and prospective patrons of respondent
from patronizing its markets; respondent suffered and
will suffer irreparable injury from the continuance of the
practice and customers will be intimidated and restrained
from patronizing the stores as a consequence of petitioners' acts. There is more than $3,000 involved in the controversy.
The District Court held that no labor dispute, as defined by federal or state law, exists between the respondent and the petitioners or either of them; that the respondent is bound to permit its employes free agency
in the matter of choice of union organization or representation; and that the respondent had no adequate remedy
at law. It entered a final decree enjoining the petitioners
from seeking to coerce the respondent to discharge any of
its employes for refusal to join the union or to coerce
the respondent to compel employes to become members
of the organization, from advertising that the respondent
is unfair to organized labor, and from annoying or molesting patrons or persuading or soliciting, customers, present
or prospective, not to patronize the respondent's markets.

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
323

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree.2 By
reason of alleged conflict with a decision of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, [222 Wis. 383; 268 N. W. 270, 873]
and with our decision in Senn v. Tile Layers Protective
Union, 301 U. S. 468, we granted the writ of certiorari.
In the Court of Appeals the petitioners assigned error
to certain of the District Court's findings of fact as well
as to its conclusions of law. In this court the only errors
assigned are to the holdings that, on the facts found, there
was no labor dispute and that the Norris-LaGuardia Act
and the Wisconsin Labor Code had no bearing on the
case as made. In these circumstances we accept the findings of fact and confine our inquiry to the correctness of
the District Court's conclusions based upon them.
The institution of the suit in the federal court is justified by the findings as to diversity of citizenship and the
-amount in controversy. As the acts complained of occurred in Wisconsin the law of that State governs the
substantive rights of the, parties. But the power of the
court to grant the relief prayed depends upon the jurisdiction conferred upon it by the statutes of the United
States.
First. The District Court erred in holding that no labor
dispute, as defined by the law of Wisconsin, existed between the parties. Section 103.62, paragraph (3) of the
Wisconsin Labor Code,' is:
"The term 'labor dispute' includes any controversy
concerning the terms or conditions of employment, or concerning the association or representation of persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing, or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment, or concerning,
employment relations, or any other controversy arising
out of the respective interests of employer and employe,
regardless of whether or not the disputants stand in the
proximate relation of employer and employe."
2 90 F. (2d) 250.
8Wisconsin Statutes,

1937, c. 103, § 103.62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

The District Court was bound by the construction of
the section by the Supreme Court of the State,4 which
has held a controversy indistinguishable from that here
disclosed to be a labor dispute within the meaning of
the statute.'
Second. The District Court erred in not applying the
provisions of § 103.53 ' 'of the Wisconsin Labor Code,
which declares certain conduct lawful in labor disputes;
inter alia "giving publicity to . . . the existence of, or
the facts involved in, any dispute . . . by . . .patrolling any public street . . without intimidation or coercion, or by any 'Other method not involving fraud, violence, breach of the peace, or threat thereof"; advising,
urging, or inducing, without fraud, violence or threat
thereof, others to cease to patronize any person; peaceful
picketing or 1patrolling, whether singly or in numbers.
A Wisconsin court could not enjoin acts declared by the
statute to be lawful;7 and the District Court has no
greater power to do so. The error into which the court
fell as to the existence of a labor dispute led it into the
further. error of issuing an order so sweeping as to enjoin
acts made lawful by the State statute. The decree forbade all picketing, all advertising that the respondent
was unfair to organized labor and all persuasion and solicitation of customers or prospective customers not to trade
with respondent.
.

4Senn v. Tile Layers Union, supra, p. 477.
5American Furniture Co. v,.Chauffeurs, Teamsters & Helpers
Union, 222 Wis. 338, 268 N. W. 250. See, also, Senn v. Tile Layers
Union, supra.
6 Wisconsin Statutes, 1937, c. 103, § 103.53.
7Senn v. Tile Layers Protective Union, 222- Wis. 383, 400, 268
N. W. 270, 872; American Furniture Co. v. Chauffeurs, Teamsters &
Helpers Union, supra.

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
323

Opinion of tile Court.

Third. The District Court erred in granting an injunction in the absence of findings which the Norris-LaGuardia
Act 8 makes prerequisites to the exercise of jurisdiction.
Section 13 (c) of the Act ' is:
"The term 'labor dispute' includes any controversy concerning terms or conditions of employment, or concerning
the association or representation of persons in negotiating,
fixing, maintaining, changing, or seeking to arrange terms
or conditions of employment regardless of whether or
not the disputants stand in the proximate relation of employer and employee."
This definition does not differ materially from that
above quoted from the Wisconsin Labor Code, and the
facts of the instant case bring it within both.
Section 7 " declares that "no court of the United States
shall have jurisdiction to issue a temporary or permanent
injunction in any case involving or growing out of a labor
dispute, as herein defined" except after a hearing of a
described character, "and except after findings of fact
by the court, to the effect (a) that unlawful acts have
been threatened and will be committed unless restrained
or have been committed and will be continued unless restrained" and that no injunction "shall be issued on account of any threat or unlawful act excepting against
the person or persons, association, or organization making
the threat or committing the unlawful act or actually
authorizing or ratifying the same . . ." By subsections
(b) to (e) it is provided that relief shall not be granted
unless the court finds that substantial and irreparable injury to complainants' property will follow; that as to
8Act of March 23, 1932, c. 90, 47 Stat. 70, U. S. C. Tit. 29, § 101
et seq.
947 Stat. 73; U. S. C. Tit. 29, § 113 (c)..
10 47

Stat. 71; U. S. C. Tit. 29, § 107.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

each item of relief granted greater injury will be inflicted upon the complainant by denying the relief than
will be inflicted *upon defendants by granting it; that
complainant has no adequate remedy at law; and that
the public officers charged with the duty to protect complainants' property are unable or unwilling to provide
adequate protection. There can be no question of the
power of Congress thus to define and limit the jurisdiction of the inferior courts of the United States." The
District Court made none of the required findings save
as to irreparable injury and lack of remedy at law. It
follows that in issuing the injunction it exceeded its
jurisdiction.
Fourth. The Court of Appeals erred in holding that
the declarations of policy in the Norris-LaGuardia Act
and the Wisconsin Labor Code to the effect that employes are to have full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own
choosing, free from interference, restraint or coercion of
their employers, puts this case outside the scope of both
acts since respondent cannot accede to the petitioner's demands upon it without disregarding the policy declared by
the statutes. This view was expressed in the court's first
opinion on the appeal from the issue of an interlocutory
injunction,' 2 and the opinion on the appeal from the final
order adopts what was said on the earlier appeal as the
law of the case. We find nothing in the declarations
of policy which narrows the definition of a labor dispute
as found in the statutes. The rights of the parties and
the jurisdiction of the federal courts are to be determined
according to the express provisions applicable to labor
disputes as so defined.
Fifth. Since the courts below were of opinion that a
labor dispute, as defined by state and federal statutes,
1

Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226, 233-234.

1282 F. (2d) 68, 72-73.

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
323

BUTLER,

J., cissenting.

had not been shown, they did not pass on the questions
of the legality, under the Wisconsin law, of the acts
charged to have been done by the petitioners or the
constitutionality of that law in legalizing any of such
acts. As the case must go back for further proceedings,
we express no opinion upon these questions.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting.

The opinion just announced reflects faithfully though
quite nakedly the findings of fact. These and uncontradicted details disclose the circumstantial basis of the
suit. Local No. 73 is an unincorporated labor union,
never in any way related to respondent. None of its
employees is a member of the union; all have definitely
rejected the suggestion that they join it. In every legal
sense, the union is a stranger both to respondent and its
employees. Shortly before petitioners conspired to destroy respondent's business, one Joyce, of the American
Federation of Labor, called by telephone respondent's
vice-president, Russell, at his Chicago office. The latter's uncontradicted narration of the conversation follows: "Mr. Joyce . . .said 'We are in Milwaukee and
want you fellows to join our Union up there. They tell
me up there you are the man'I must see, to get a contract
signed for Shinner & Company with the Butchers Union
up there.' I told him I could not sign any contract with
him, that our men had their own association and were
perfectly well satisfied, and didn't want to belong to any
other union. He said 'Well, I am going there tonight

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Bu';1t, J., dimcnting.

303 U. S.

and if you don't join. I will declare war on you.' I said
'There is nothing I can do about it.' He said 'All right,
the war is on, and may the best man win,' and he hung
up."
Then followed a demand by the union that respondent
compel its employees, on pain of dismissal from their
employment, to join the union and constitute it their
bargainingrepresentativeand agent. Respondent rightly
declined to undertake any such interference with the liberty of its employees, but informed them that they were
free to do as they saw fit. It left them wholly free to
join or not to join the union; the union was left free to
invite, urge, persuade or induce them to join. Every one
who respects the lawful exercise of individual liberty of
action must regard the attitude of the respondent as being above criticism and beyond reproach. The opinion
of the Court just announced does not suggest a contrary
view.
Under these circumstances, the union, in order to force
respondent to coerce its employees, and in pursuance of
a conspiracy to that end, publicly and falsely accused respondent of being unfair to labor in dealing with its employees; and by means of false placards and banners and
by picketing, molestation, annoyance, threats and intimidation it prevented, and when this suit was brought was
continuing to prevent, patrons and prospective patrons
from dealing with respondent-all to the latter's serious
and irreparable injury.
1. Respondent's business constitutes a property right;
and the free opportunity of respondent and its customers
to deal with one another in that business is an incident
inseparable therefrom. It is hard to imagine a case which
more clearly calls for equitable relief; and the court below
rightly granted an injunction. Truax v. Corrigan, 257
U. S. 312, 327, and cases cited.

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
323

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

But here it is held that the decree conflicts with the
Norris-LaGuardia Act. That the action demanded by
petitioners of respondent with respect to its employees, if
taken, would have been morally indefensible is plain;
that it would have been against the declared policy of the
Act is equally plain. That Act, 29 U. S. C., § 102,1 declares that under prevailing conditions, the individual
unorganized worker, "though he should be free to decline
to associate with his fellow workers" should "have full
freedom of association, self-organization, and designation
of representatives of his own choosing," and should "be
free from the interference, restraint, or coercion of employers of labor, or their agents, in the designation of such
representatives," etc. This declaration of policy, as the
introductory clause plainly recites, was intended as an
I Section 2 of the Act of March 23, 1932, 47 Stat. 70, 29 U. S. C.
§ 102:
"Public policy in labor matterg declared. In the interpretation
of this chapter and in determining the jurisdiction and authority of
the courts of the United States, as such jurisdiction, and authority
are defined and limited in this chapter, the public policy of the
United States is hereby declared as follows:
"Whereas under prevailing economic conditions, developed with the
aid of governmental authority for owners of property to organize
in the corporate and other forms of ownership association, the individual unorganized worker is commonly helpless to exercise actual
liberty of contract and to protect his freedom of labor, and thereby
to obtain acceptable terms and conditions of employment, wherefore,
though he should be free to decline to associate with his fellows, it is
necessary that he have full freedom of association, self-organization,
and designation of representatives of his own choosing, to negotiate
the terms and conditions of his employment, and that he shall be
free from the interference, restraint, or coercion of employers of
labor, or their agents, in the designation of such representatives or
in self-organization or in other concerted activities for the purpose
of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection; therefore,
the following definitions of and limitations upon the jurisdiction and
authority of the courts of the United States are hereby enacted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

aid "in the interpretation" of the Act and "in determining
the jurisdiction and authority of the courts" under the
Act. If respondent had joined the conspiracy and yielded
to the demand of the union its action as an employer of
labor unquestionably would have constituted an "interference, restraint, or coercion" of its employees in the
designation of their representatives, in the teeth of the
declared policy of the Act.
The opinion of the Court asserts, however, that this
definite declaration of policy in no way narrows the definition of the phrase "labor dispute" found in substantive
provisions of the Act. But that statement cannot be intended to suggest that the declaration of policy does not
affect the meaning and application of the words used, for
the opening clause of that declaration is precisely to the
contrary. Whether a labor dispute exists in a given case
depends upon the facts; and in each case the phrase
"labor dispute" is to be interpreted in harmony with the
declared policy of the Act. That is the congressional
mandate and courts are required to observe it. In Ozawa
v. United States, 260 U. S. 178, 194, we said "It is the
duty of this Court to give effect to the intent of Congress.
Primarily this intent is ascertained by giving the words
their natural significance, but if this leads to an unreasonable result plainly at variance with the policy of the
legislation as a whole, we must examine the matter further. We may then look to the reason of the enactment
and inquire into its antecedent history and give it effect
in accordance with its design and purpose, sacrificing, if
necessary, the literal meaning in order that the purpose
may not fail." See also to the same effect, Heydenfeldt
v. Daney Gold & S. M. Co., 93 U. S. 634, 638; Holy
Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 459
et seq.; Fleischmann Construction Co. v. United States,
270 U. S. 349, 360; Karnuth v. United States, 279 U. S.
231, 243. The principle applies here with peculiar force;

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
323

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

for it is an unnatural assumption to suppose that Congress intended by general definition of the flexible term
"labor dispute" to annul its own very explicit declaration
in respect to the policy to be observed by the courts in
the administration of the Act.
The decision just announced ignores the declared policy
of Congress that the worker should be free to decline
association with his fellows, that he should have full freedom in that respect and in the designation of representatives, and especially that he should be free from interference, restraint, or coercion of employers. To say that
a "labor dispute" is created by the mere refusal of respondent to comply with the demand that it compel its
employees to designate the union as their representative
unmistakably subverts this policy and consequently puts
a construction upon the words contrary to the manifest
congressional intent.
Moreover, the immediately preceding section of the
Act, 29 U. S. C., § 101,2 provides that no restraining order
or injunction in a case involving or growing out of a labor
dispute shall issue "contrary to the public policy declared in this chapter." Sections 101 and 102 taken, together constitute nothing less than an expression of the
legislative will that the court shall enforce the public
policy set forth in § 102 and shall have regard thereto in
reaching a determination as to whether it has jurisdiction
to issue an injunction in any particular case. Since the
2 Section

1 of the Act of March 23, 1932, 47 Stat. 70, 29 U. S. C.

§ 101:
"Issuance of restraining orders and injunctions; limitation; public
policy. No court of the United States, as defined in this chapter,
shall have jurisdiction to issue any restraining order or temporaryor permanent injunction in a case involving or growing out of a
labor dispute, except in a strict conformity with the provisions of
this chapter; nor shall any such restraihing order or temporary or
permanent injunction be issued contrary to the public policy declared
in this chapter."

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

whole aim of the injury here inflicted and threatened to
be inflicted by the union was to compel respondent to
influence and coerce its employees in the designation of
their representatives, the acts of the union were in plain
defiance of the declared policy of Congress, and find no
support in its substantive provisions.
2. But putting aside the congressional declaration of
policy as an indication of meaning, and considering the
phrase entirely apart, the facts of this case plainly do not
constitute a "labor dispute" as defined by the Act. Undoubtedly "dispute" is used in its primary sense as meaning a verbal controversy involving an expression of opposing views or claims. The Act itself, 29 U. S. C., § 113
(c), so regards it: "The term 'labor dispute' includes
any controversy concerning terms or conditions of employment," etc. In this case, there was no interchange
or consideration of conflicting views in respect of the settlement of a controversial problem. There was simply
an overbearing demand by the union that respondent
should do an unlawful thing and a natural refusal on its
part to comply. If a demand by a labor union that an
employer compel its employees to submit to the will of
the union, and the employer's refusal, constitute a labor
controversy, the highwayman's demand for the money of
his victim and the latter's refusal to stand and deliver
constitute a financial controversy.
There being an utter lack of connection between the
petitioners and respondent or its employees, the union
was an intruder into the affairs of the employer and its
employees. The union had the right to try to persuade
the employees to join its organization; but persuasive
methods failing, its right under the law in any manner to
intermeddle came to an end. It lawfully could not coerce
the employees to abandon their own organization and to
join Local No. 73 any more than the employees could
coerce the union to disband and its members to join

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
323

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

their organization. Otherwise, the worker would not "be
free," as the Act requires, "to decline to associate with
his fellows"; nor would he have "full freedom of association, self-organization and designation of representatives
of his own choosing." Clearly the union could not be
authorized by statute to resort to coercive measures directly against the employees to compel submission to its
wishes, for that would be to give one group of workmen
autocratic power of control in respect of the liberties of
another group, in contravention of the Fifth Amendment
as well as of the policy of Congress expressly declared in
this Act. And that being true, the attempt to coerce
submission through constrained interference of the employer was equally unlawful.
So far as concerns the question here involved, the phrase
"labor dispute" is the basic element of the Act. For unless there was such a dispute-that is to say, a "controversy"-the Act does not even purport to limit the district court's jurisdiction in equity. The phrase must receive a sensible construction in harmony with the congressional intent and policy. There can be no dispute
without disputants. Between whom was there a dispute
here?. There was none between the union and respondent's employees; for the latter were considered by the
union mere pawns to be moved according to the arbitrary
will of the union. There was none between respondent
and its employees; for they were in full accord. And
finally there was none between the union and respondent;
for it would be utterly unreasonable to suppose Congress
intended that the refusal of a conscientious employer to
transgress the express policy of the law should constitute
a "labor dispute" having the effect of bringing to naught
not only the policy of the law, but the obligation of a
coirt of equity to respect it and to restrain a continuing
and destructive assault upon the property rights of
the employer, as to which no adequate remedy at law
existed. °
5332

38-

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

3. As to what constitutes a "labor dispute" within the
meaning of the Wisconsin statute, .the interpretation put
upon it by the highest court of that state is binding here.
Knights of Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U. S. 30, 32. Morehead v. New York ex rel. Tipaldo, 298 U. S. 587, 609.
But this Court authoritatively declares the meaning of
Acts of Congress and is required to decide for itself what
constitutes a "labor dispute," which, within the meaning
of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, will have the effect of
abridging the jurisdiction of a federal court.
The things here found to have been done for the purpose of coercing respondent to compel its employees to
join the union are not declared lawful by the Wisconsin
statute or by the courts of that state. Cf. American Furniture Co. v. Chauffeurs, T. & H. Union, 222 Wis. 338;
268 N. W. 250; Senn v. Tile Layers Protective Union, 222
Wis. 383; 268 N. W. 270, 872. While this Court refrains
from condemning the means employed by petitioners, the
opinion contains nothing to suggest that their conduct
was not wrongful and unlawful. The publicity and peaceful picketing declared legal by Wisconsin laws are utterly
unlike the display of libelous signs, parade of pickets,
false accusations, molestation, threats and intimidation
employed by the union, not on behalf of former or present employees of respondent, but to destroy the business
of respondent. Here, by means everywhere held to be
unlawful, the union carried on and was continuing to
carry on a campaign of destruction in order to coerce respondent to deprive its employees of their right of freedom of association, self-organization and designation of
representatives of their own choosing. That the Wisconsin statute does not attempt to make lawful the means
employed by the union to impose its will upon respondent
and its employees clearly appears from this Court's portrayal of that law in Senn v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S.
468.

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
323

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

The opinion in that case states (p. 478): "The judgment of the highest court of the state establishes that
both the means employed and the end sought by the
unions are legal under its law . . . The Legislature of
Wisconsin has declared that 'peaceful picketing and patrolling' on the public streets and places shall be permissible 'whether engaged in singly or in numbers' provided
this is done 'without intimidation or coercion' and free
from 'fraud, violence, breach of the peace or threat
thereof.' The statute provides that the picketing must
be peaceful; and that term as used implies not only absence of violence but absence of any unlawful act. It precludes the intimidation of customers. It precludes any
form of physical obstruction or interference with the
plaintiff's business. It authorizes giving publicity to the
existence of the dispute 'whether by advertising, patrolling
any public streets or places where any person or persons
may lawfully be'; but precludes misrepresentation of the
facts of the controversy. And it declares that 'nothing
herein shall be construed to legalize a secondary boycott.' . . . Inherently, the means authorized are clearly
unobjectionable. In declaring such picketing permissible
Wisconsin has put this means of publicity on a par with
advertisements in the press. . . . The picketing was
peaceful. The publicity did not involve a misrepresentation of fact; nor was any claim made below that relevant
facts were suppressed."
The state statute, defining "labor disputes" and declaring the means that lawfully may be used against employers in such controversies, does not purport to make lawful
either the end here sought by petitioners or the means
they employed to attain it. Their purpose was not unionization of respondent's employees, for they already belonged to a labor organization of their own choosing. The
purpose was to coerce the employees to join a particular
organization which they had already repudiated. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

is nothing in the state or federal statutes that purports to
give labor unions or individuals so contriving the status
of party to a "labor dispute." Coercion of employees to
surrender their freedom of self-organization is repugnant
to both statutes. Wis. Stats., 1937, § 103.51. 29 U. S. C.
.§ 101, 102. Cf. American Furniture Co. v. Chauffeurs,
T. & H. Union, 222 Wis. 338; 268 N. W. 250; Senn v. Tile
Layers Protective Union, 222 Wis. 383; 268 N. W. 270,
872; Senn v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S.468. There is
no ground upon which petitioners' purpose in this case or
the means employed to accomplish it can be supported
as lawful.
4. The case is a simple one. Respondent's employees
had no connection with the union, and were unwilling to
have any. The union, being unable to persuade the employees to assent to its wishes in that regard, undertook
to subjugate them to its will by coercing an unlawful interference with their freedom of action on the part of the
employer. If that is a "labor dispute," destructive of the
historical power of equity to intervene, then the NorrisLaGuardia Act attempts to legalize an arbitrary and
alien state of affairs wholly at variance with those principles of constitutional liberty by which the exercise of
despotic power hitherto has been curbed. And nothing is
plainer under our decisions than that if the Act does that,
its effect will be to deprive the respondent of its property
and business without due process of law, in contravention
of the Fifth Amendment. Truax v. Corrigan,supra, 327328.
I am of opinion that the circuit court of appeals rightly
held that this case discloses no "labor dispute" within
the meanirg of the Norris-LaGuardia Act; that the
union's coercive attack upon respondent was unlawful under state law and in violation of the policy declared by the
federal statute, and was properly enjoined; and that, there
being no "labor dispute" as defined by that Act, its pro-

UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
323

Counisel for Parties.

visions as to allegations, proof, and findings do not apply.
I would affirm the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH

No..445.

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 11, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

Under § 307 of the World War Veterans Act, as amended July 3,
1930, a claim for total permanent disability on a reinstated and
converted War Risk policy can not be contested upon the bare
ground that the total and permanent disability existed before
the insurance was reinstated. P. 342.
Section 307 provides that policies of insurance "issued, reinstated, or converted shall be incontestable from the date of issuance, reinstatement, or conversion, except for fraud, nonpayment of premiums, or on the ground that the applicant was not
a member of the military or naval forces of the United States."
The converted policy sued on promised to pay in the event of
total, permanent disability, upon due proof of such disability
"while this policy is in force." Unlike original policies issued
under the War Risk Act, it contained no clause expressly excluding liability for total, permanent disability incurred before the
policy was applied for.
90 F. 2d 715, affirmed.
. CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 676, to review the affirmance of

a judgment recovered against the Government on a Veteran's policy of insurance.

Mr. Wilbur C. Pickett, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Solicitor General Bell, and Messrs, Julius
C. Martin and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. Warren E.

Miller, with whom Mr. Stephen A.

Cross was on the brief, for respondent.

