RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.

573

Syllabus.

NEW YORK RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. CITY OF
NEW YORK.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 435.

Argued February 7, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

1. Since carriers or other utilities with the right of eminent domain.
the use of public property, special franchises or public contracts,
have many points of distinction from other businesses, including
relative freedom from competition, they may for purposes of
taxation be classed separately. P. 578.
2. Utilities subject to supervision by the New York Department of
Public Service-including those engaged in transportation of persons
or property, and those furnishing gas, electricity, steam, water,
communication by telegraph or telephone-were subjected by local
laws of the City of New York to privilege taxes of 3% of their
gross incomes. The laws were enacted for short periods under
authority from the state legislature, and the proceeds were earmarked for use exclusively in relieving the unemployed in the city.
Transit companies operating in the city assailed the levies under the
due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the contraci clause, of the Federal Constitution. Held:
(1) It is not a valid objection that the taxpayers are defined
by reference to the classification previously established by the New
York Public Service Law rather than by specific reference in the
taxing law itself to the character of their businesses. P. 579.
(2) Separate classification of the utilities taxed is justifiable, upon
the grounds that they enjoy a special measure of statutory protection from competition; that they are required to make financial
reports to public authority which are of administrative convenience
in ascertaining and collecting such taxes; and that the revenues
of such utilities, furnishing indispensable services, may be subject
to relatively little fluctuation, even in times of depression. P. 580.
(3) The facts that the transit companies have a low margin of
net income, and that because of contracts with the city they can
not pass-on the added tax burden by increasing their charges, are
fortuitous and do not render the taxes arbitrary and unreasonably
* Together with No. 436, Brooklyn & Queens Transit Corp. v. City

of New York, also on appeal from the Supreme Court of New York.

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

discriminatory against them as compared with the other utilities
or with business in general. P. 581.
The legislature is not required to make meticulous adjustments
in an effort to avoid incidental hardships.
(4) Taxes on gross receipts, rather than on net income, are
justified upon the ground of convenience in admuinistration and because of the close relation of the volume of transactions in a business to cost of i,ssupervision and protection by government.
Stewart Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S. 550, distinguished.
P. 582.
(5) The fact that the tax is levied for the specific purpose of
relieving conditions (unemployment) to which the utilities taxed
bear no special relation, does not render it unconstitutional. P. 584.
(6) Within the meaning of the rule that classification must
rest upon some ground of difference having a fair and substantial
relation to the object of the legislation, the 'object' in this case is
the raising of the revenue. That an appropriation of the funds for
relief is part of the same legislation is not significant; it is not
constitutionally necessary that the classification for the tax be related to the appropriation of the proceeds. P. 585.
(7) The laws under consideration do not violate the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 587.
3. To sustain a claim of contractual tax exemption the language must
be clear and express. P. 593.
4. In deciding a case under the contract clause, this Court determines for itself the existence and meaning of the contract; but, in
so doing, it leans toward agreement with the courts of the State
and accepts their judgment unless manifestly wrong. P. 593.
5. In a contract between the City of New York and a transit corporation, the city agreed to construct certain railroads and the
company to contribute to their cost and equipment and to reconstruct and build additions to its own railroads. The city leased
the railroads it agreed to construct to the company and the coipany agreed to operate them, in conjunction with its own as one
system, for a designated fare. The gross receipts were to be
pooled; deductions were to be made, in their order, first to reimburse the company for specified expenses and outlays, including
taxes, and then to reimburse the city for certain interest and
amortization charges; and the remainder was to be divided equally
between the city and the company. The tax deduction included
"all taxes . ..of every description (whether on physical property,
stock or securities, corporate or other franchises, or otherwise)

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

575

Opinion of the Court.

assessed or which may hereafter be assessed against the Lessee in
connection with . ..the operation of the .. .Railroads." At the
time of making the contract, the taxing power of the city was confined to special assessments for public improvements and ad
valorem taxes on real estate and on special franchises granted by
the city. Later, under new power acquired from the legislature,
the city levied a privilege tax of 3% of the gross receipts. Held:
(1) That the collection of such tax was not in violation of the
contract but in accordance with its express terms. Pp. 588, 591.
(2) The contract may not be construed as limiting the taxes
deductible from gross receipts to those which the city was authorized to impose when the contract was made. P. 591.
275 N. Y. 258, 454; 9 N. E. 2d 858; 11 id. 293, affirmed.
APPEALS from judgments of the Supreme Court of New
York, entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals.
These were actions to recover from the city large sums
exacted as taxes. The Special Term of the Supreme Court
held the taxes void; the Appellate Division affirmed, 251
App. Div. 710; 296 N. Y. S. 1006, 1012; the Court of
Appeals upheld the taxes and reversed the judgments.

Messrs. Harold L. Warner and Paul D. Miller, with
whom Messrs. George D. Yeomans, Andrew M. Williams,
and Arthur A. Ballantine were on the briefs, for
appellants.
Mr. Paxton Blair, with whom Messrs. William C.
Chanler, Oscar S. Cox, and Sol Charles Levine were on
the briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question for decision is the constitutional validity
of Local Laws of the City of New York (Local Law No. 21
of 1934, as amended by Local Law No. 2 of 1935, and
extended by Local Law No. 30 of 1935) which provide,
§ 2, that "for the privilege of exercising its franchise or
franchises, or of holding property, or of doing business in

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

the City of New York" an excise tax shall be paid by every
"utility" doing business in the City of New York during
1935 and the first six months of 1936.
"Utility" is defined, § 1 (e), to include "any person
subject to the supervision of either division of the department of public service," and every person, whether or
not subject to such supervision, engaged "in the business
of furnishing or selling to other persons, gas, electricity,
stean, water, refrigeration, telephony and/or telegraphy"
or service in these commodities. Each utility is required
to pay a tax "equal to three percentum of its gross income" received during the effective period of the Local
Laws, with a minor variation not here assailed for utilities
not subject to the specified supervision.' The Local Laws
specify that all revenues from the tax "shall be deposited
in a separate bank account or accounts, and shall be available and used solely and exclusively for the purpose of
relieving the people of the City of New York from the
hardships and suffering caused by unemployment" (§14).
The Local Laws, admittedly passed under authority
granted by the state legislature,-' are assailed under the
United States Constitution. For convenience we shall
discuss the contentions of the New York Rapid Transit
Corporation alone, as determination of the objections
1Utilities

subject to the supervision of the department of public

service pay three per cent. of their "gross income," as defined by
§ 1(c); the other utilities pay three per cent. of their "gross operating
income," as defined by § 1 (d).
'N. Y. Laws 1934, c. 873, authorized any city of a million inhabitants to impose for purposes of unemployment relief any tax
within the powers of the state legislature, including a tax on gross
income or gross receipts of those doing business in the city. The act
specifically provided (§ 2) that the revenues shall be deposited in a
separate bank account and used solely for the relief purposes. The
authority granted by this statute expired December 31, 1935, but was
extended, with certain restrictions not material here, until July 1, 1936,
by N. Y. Laws 1935, c. 601.

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

577

Opinion of the Court.

raised by it is conclusive of those advanced by the Brooklyn
and Queens Transit Corporation.
The New York Rapid Transit Corporation operates
rapid transit railroads in the City of New York under a
contract known as Contract No. 4, dated March 19, 1913,
made pursuant to the New York Rapid Transit Act, Laws
1891, c. 4, as amended, between its predecessor (New York
Municipal Railway Corporation) and the City. As a
common carrier engaged in the operation of rapid transit
railroads, the corporation is under the supervision of the
transit commission, the head of the metropolitan division
of the state department of public service. Accordingly,
but under protest, it paid the taxes imposed by the Local
Laws set out above, for the months January, 1935, to June,
1936, inclusive. It brought this action against the City
of New York to xecover the amounts paid, $1,408,697, with
interest, on the ground that the Local Laws are unconstitutional. The case arises on the City's motion to dismiss the complaint.
The Supreme Court of New York, Special Term, denied
the motion to dismiss the complaint and found that the
Local Laws denied equal protection because of gross inequality of burden in comparison with other utilities.
This order was affirmed by the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court, without opinion, on a 3-2 vote (251 App.
Div. 710; 296 N. Y. S. 1006). The Court of Appeals
reversed (275 N. Y. 258; 9 N. E. 2d 858), upheld the
Local Laws against all att cks, and ruled that the complaint did not state a cause of action. Appeal was taken
to this Court under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28
U. S. C. § 344 (a).
The Corporation challenges the Local Laws as violative
of the equal protection and due process clauses of the
14th Amendment and the contracts clause of Article I,
§ 10, of the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

I. Classification. No question is or could be made by
the Corporation as to the right of a state, or a municipality with properly delegated powers, to enact laws or
ordinances, based on reasonable classification of the objects of the legislation or of the persons whom it affects.
"Equal protection" does not prohibit this. Although the
wide discretion as to classification retained by a legislature, often results in narrow distinctions, these distinctions, if reasonably related to the object of the legislation, are sufficient to justify the classification. German
Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 418; Atchison,
T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96, 105; Giozza
v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657. Indeed, it has long been the
law under the 14th Amendment that "a distinction in
legislation is not arbitrary, if any state of facts reasonably can be conceived that would sustain it, . . ." Rast
v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 357; Borden's
Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 209; Metropolitan Casualty
Ins. Co. v. Brownell, 294 U. S. 580, 584. "The rule of
equality permits many practical inequalities." Magoun
v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 296;
Breedlove v. Suttles, 302 U. S. 277, 281; Carmichael v.
Southern Coal & Coke Co., 301 U. S. 495, 509. "What
satisfies this equality has not been and probably' never
can be precisely defined." Magoun v. Illinois Trust &
Savings Bank, supra,293.
The power to make distinctions exists with full vigor in
the field of taxation, where no "iron rule" of equality.
has ever been enforced upon the states. Bell's Gal, R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657, 662. A state may exercise a wide
discretion in selecting the subjects of taxation (Magoun
v. Illinois Trust-& Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 294:
Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62; Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, 255) "particularly

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
57;3

579

Opinion of the Court.

as respects occupation taxes," Oliver Iron Mining Co. v.
Lord, 262 U. S. 172. 179; Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S.563, 573; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas,
217 U. S. 114. 121, 126; see Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281
U. S. 146, 159.
Since carriers or other utilities with the right of eminent domain, the use of public property, special franchises or public contracts, have many points of distinction from other businesses, including relative freedom
from competition, especially significant with increasing
density of population and municipal expansion, these
public service organizations have no valid ground by
virtue of the equal protection clause to object to separate treatment related to such distinctions. Carriers may
be treated as a separate class (compare Seaboard Air Line
v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73) and, as such, taxed differently
or additionally. Southern R. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S.519,
530. This Court has approved the adoption of modes and
methods of assessment and administration peculiar to
railroads (Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321,
337), and upheld tax rates for railroads differing from
those on other property, and as between railroad taxpayers, Michigan ;Central R. Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S.
245, 300; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 590; Columbus & G. Ry' Co. v. Miller, 283 U. S.96. Similarly, we
have explicitly recognized that a State may subject public service corporations to a special or higher income tax
than individuals or other corporations. Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co. v. Daughton, 262 U. S.413, 424. The Corporation concedes this general right to set apart the utilities in New York for taxation.
The Corporation is brought within the purview of the
Local Laws because "utility" is defined to include those
"subject to the supervision of the department of public
service." § 1 (e). It contends that classification in an

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

excise tax, however, should be made by specific reference
to the character of the business to be taxed, and that it
is arbitrary to make taxability depend on whether a person is subject to the supervision of d commission. Valid
reason for the definition utilized appears from the fact
that the Local Laws merely adopted the classification
previously established in' the New York Public Service
Law (N. Y. Laws 1910, c. 480, as amended) which had
selected those offering several kinds of public services,
including the transportation of persons and property
(§ 25),' and made them subject to the supervision of
the department of public service.
Several reasons may be suggested for the selection for
special tax burdens of the utilities embraced by the Local
Laws under discussion. We mention a few. Those subject to the supervision of the department of public service
are assured by statute that new private enterprises may
not enter into direct competition without a showing of
convenience and necessity' for the public service' (see
New York Steam Corp. v. City of New York, 268 N. Y.
137, 147; 197 N. E. 172). The Corporation suggests
that the statute does not curb competition from the City's
own rapid transit lines and from taxicabs. Freedom from
unlimited, direct, private competition is of itself a sufficient advantage over ordinary businesses to warrant the
imposition of a heavier tax burden. Reports which must
be filed with the department of public service on the basis
of approved systems of accounting suggest an administrative convenience in the collection and verification of the
Others are the production and/or furnishing, of gas, electricity,
,steam, and water, communication by telegraph or telephone, omnibus
transportation. New York Public Service Law, §§ 64, 78, 89-a, 90, 60.
'New York Public Service Law (Laws 1910, c. 480), as amended:
§ 53 (railroad; street railroad); § 63-d (omnibus); § 68 (gas;
electricity); § 81 (steam); § 89-e (water); § 99 (1) (telephone and
telegraph).

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

581

Opinion of the Couri.

tax -which might properly have been taken into account
by the City's legislature. See Carmichael v. Southern
Coal & Coke Co., 301 U. S. 495, 511, and cases cited. The
legislature may reasonably have conceived that the revenues of utilities furnishing indispensable services are subject to relatively little fluctuation, even in depression
times, and reasonably have shaped its tax system accordingly.
II. Discrimination. The Corporation urges here, as
the lower state courts held, that these general principles
of classification are not effective to validate legislation
where, as in these Local Laws, arbitrary, unreasonable
and hostile discrimination against certain railroad companies is shown. This unlawful discrimination appears,
because "they are," as the Corporation sees it, "in a far
poorer position to bear the burden of unemployment
relief than is business in general." Business may pass on
taxes. Other utilities may apply to the commission and
perhaps to the courts for an adequate rate increase. This
Corporation cannot do so as by Contract No. 4 with the
City it is bound t'o furnish transportation for a five-cent
fare, which by City Charter provision cannot be changed
without the approval of the proposal by a majority of the
qualified voters, on referendum.'
It is alleged in the
complaint that rapid transit corporations are less able
to pay a gross receipts tax than other utilities, whose
"Operating revenues are reported by railroads. See, e. g., Transit
Commission, Summary of Reports of Rapid Transit, Street Surface
Railway and Bus Companies operating in the City of New York for
*the Quarter April-June, 1935, and for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
1935; Id., Quarter, April-June, 1936, and for the Fischl Year Ended
June 30, 1936.
City of New York, Local Law No. 16 of 1925.
The argument is applicable in No. 436. There the limitation on
fare exists in a franchise, alleged in the complaint to be beyond the
regulatory power of the transit commission.

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

gross income yields a higher percentage of profit, that
the operation and maintenance expenses of these corporations are higher in relation to gross receipts than
those of other utilities, the ratio of net income to gross
receipts, lower. It is said to be highly discriminatory to
classify these railroads apart from other businesses, or in
the same group as other- utilities. The differences from
business are not enough and from other utilities too great
to justify this attempted classification, which sets them
apart from business as a whole, and yokes them with
other utilities.
The disadvantages complained of, as to fare limitations, are applicable only to the Corporation, a single
member of a class of utilities. It is quite fortuitous that
this particular corporation must seek adjustments in fare
in a peculiar way. "The legislature is not required to
make meticulous adjustments in an effort to avoid incidental hardships," see Great Atlantic & Pac. Tea Co. v.
Grosjean, 301 U. S. 412, 424. "If the accidents of trade
lead to inequality or hardship, the consequences must be
accepted as inherent in government by law instead of
government by edict." Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294
U. S. 87, 102.
In comparing its burdens with those of other utilities,
the Corporation, by its argument, suggests that a gross
receipts tax is invalid while a net income tax is valid. In
taxing utilities as a class the legislature is not required to
make "meticulous adjustments" for a particular sub-.class
of utility, see Great Atlantic & Pac. Tea Co. v. GrosJean,
301 U. S. at 424, supra. Moreover, while taxation of net
income is apportioned to ability to pay, and is therefore "an equitable method of distributing the burdens of
government," see New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300
U. S. 308, 313, it is not a compulsory method. There are
other justifications for the gross receipts tax. Unconcerned

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

583

Opinion of the Court.

with disputes about permissible deductions, it has greater
certitude and facility of administration than the net income tax, an important consideration to taxpayer and
tax gatherer alike. And the volume of transactions indicated on the taxpayer's books may bear a closer relation
to the cost of governmental supervision and protection
than the annual profit and loss statement. In Clark v.
Titusville, 184 U. S. 329, we rejected an equal protection
objection to a license tax on merchants, which we said
(p. 334) was "a tax on the privilege of doing business
regulated by the amount of sales, and . . . not repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States." And we have
heretofore had occasion to remark that gross receipts from
an occupation constitutes an "appropriate measure of the
privilege" of engaging in that occupation, Western Live
Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250; American
ManufacturingCo. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S.459, 463; Maine
v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217, 228.
Reliance is placed upon certain language of the opinion
in Stewart Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis, 294 U. S.550. But
the tax on retailers held invalid in that case increased in
rate with increasing volume. The Court said that the
excise was laid upon the making of a sale, and that the
statute "exacts from two persons different amounts for
the privilege of doing exactly similar acts because the one
has performed the act oftener than the other" (p. 566).
For that reason it was thought necessary to inquire
whether the tax could be justified as related to ability
to pay, an inquiry we need not here pursue. The Court
did not condemn a fixed-rate gross receipts tax, such as
is involved in the present case. Indeed it suggested that
the "desired end" might have been secured by the widely
adopted "flat tax on sales" (p. 563), and indicated by way
of contrast that though such a tax "would impose a
heavier burden on the taxpayer having the greater volume

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

of sales" the graduated tax under consideration exacted
not only a larger gross amount but one "larger in proportion to sales" (p. 564).
III. Relation to Object of Legislation. As a further
ground for the invalidity of the Local Laws the Corporation urges that "the classification must rest upon some
ground of difference, havifig a fair and substantial relation
to the object of the legislation." It is asserted, and correctly so, that the Local Laws in question, as well as the
state enabling statutes, show by their titles and content
that the proceeds of the challenged taxes were for the
relief of unemployment.' Violation of the rule invoked,
it is asserted, 'ccurs from the discrimination shown by the
legislation in raising "a special fund for the particular
purpose" from taxpayers no more responsible than others
for the conditions. The Corporation seems to be of the
opinion that no "state or city can, without conflict with
the Constitution, adopt a tax statute, which states a
specific object sought to be accomplished thereby and
which at the same time puts the entire burden of the tax
'N.Y. Laws 1934, c. 873 (the enabling act):
"An Act to enable, temporarily, any city of the state having a
population of one million inhabitants or more to adopt and amend
local laws, imposing in any such city any tax and/or taxes which the
legislature has or would have power and authority to impose to relieve
the people of any such city from the hardships and suffering caused
by unemployment and to limit the application of such local laws .
"§ 2. Revemues resulting from the imposition of taxes authorized
by this act shall be paid into the treasury of any such city and shall
not be credited or deposited in the general fund of any such city, but
shall be deposited in a sepg rate bank account or accounts and shall be
available and used solely and exclusively for paying the principal
amount of any instalment of principal and of interest due during the
aforesaid period on account of the ten-year serial bonds sold to obtain
moneys to pay for home relief and work relief in any such city in the
month of November, nineteen hundred thirty-three, and for the relief
purposes for which the said taxes have been imposed under the provisions of this act."

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

585

Opinion of the Court.

upon one particular class of business, even though that
class is in no different position in relation to the object
sought to be accomplished than business in general." The
brief states the point to be "that there is a distinction
between the ordinary excise tax with no specific purpose
attached thereto, and a tax which is a part of a plan for
the accomplishment of a specified object." The "object
of the legislation," to the taxpayer, is apparently the relief
of unemployment.
While, of course, the object of this legislation is in a
sense to relieve unemployment, this is the object of the
appropriation of the proceeds of the tax. The "object,"
as used in the rule and cases referred to by the Corporation, is the object of the taxing provisions, i. e., the raising of the money. If the designation of utilities as the
only taxpayers under the legislation in question does not
deny to them the equal protection of the laws, the fact
that an appropriation of the funds for relief is a part of
the legislation is not significant. "A tax is not an assessment of benefits." Carmichael v. Southern Coal & Coke
Local Law No. 21 of 1934, as amended by Local Law No. 2 of 1935:
"A local law to relieve* the people of the city of New York from
the hardships and suffering caused by unemployment and the effects
thereof on the public health and welfare, by imposing an excise tax
on the gross income of every person doing business within such city
and subject to supervision of either division of the department of
public service, and of any and all other utilities doing business within
such city to enable such city to defray the cost of granting unemployment, work and home relief.
"§ 14. Disposition of Revenues.-All revenues and moneys resulting
from the imposition of the taxes imposed by this local law shall be
paid into the treasury of the city of New York and shall not be
credited or deposited in the general fund of the city of New York
but shall be deposited in a separate bank account or accounts, and
shall be available and used solely and exclusively for the purpose of
relieving the people of the city of New York from the hardships and
suffering caused by unemployment, including the repayment of moneys
borrowed for such purpose."

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Co., 301 U. S. 495, 522. Taxes are repeatedly imposed on
a group or class without regard to responsibility for the
creation or relief of the conditions to be remedied. Idem,
note 14, p. 522. The Carmichael case involved a state
act which levied a tax on employers of eight or more
to provide unemployment benefits for workers employed
by this class of employers. It was urged that the classification should have been based on the unemployment
record of the employer, i. e., should have borne a relation to the object of unemployment relief. Against this
contention, that there was no relation between the class
of taxpayers and the purpose for which the fund was
raised, this Court held that it is not necessary that there
be "such a relationship between the subject of the tax
(the exercise of the right to employ) and the evil to be
met by the appropriation of the proceeds (unemployment)" p. 522. See also Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United
States, 301 U. S. 308, 313. The Corporation suggests
that in the Carmichael case there was a special relationship between the class taxed and the purpose for which
the proceeds were spent, but the Court expressly said
that this was something "the Constitution does not require" (p. 523). There need be no relation between the
class of taxpayers and the purpose of the appropriation.
The cases cited by the Corporation to sustain its contention that classification must rest upon some ground of
difference having a fair and substantial relation to the
object of the legislation, do not support the conclusion
that the "object" referred to is the purpose for which
the proceeds are to be spent. These authorities rather
support the view that the "object" is the revenue to be
raised by the acts. In Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404,
it was recognized that the classification "must rest upon
some ground of difference having a fair and substantial
relation to the object of the legislation" (p. 423) but it

IRAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

587

Opinion of the Court.

was said (p. 424) that "the object of the act . . .simply

is to secure revenue." In Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S.
137, Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412, and
Air Way Appliance Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71, the rule
contended for by the Corporation was recognized but
with no intimation that the "object" was considered to
be the purpose for which the proceeds of the tax were
spent. The "object" of the Local Laws under consideration, as in the case with most tax statutes, was obviously
to secure revenue. In some cases a classification of taxpayers may be upheld as having a'fair and substantial
relation to a constitutional non-fiscal object (Alaska
Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 48; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62, 63; Aero Mayflower Transit Co.
v. Georgia Public Service Comm'n, 295 U. S. 285, 291),
but it is not constitutionally necessary that the classification be related to the appropriation. In United States
v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, also relied upon by the Corporation,
the attack on the federal statute was successful because
the tax was said to be a part of an unconstitutional
scheme to regulate production through expenditures. It
was not held invalid because there was no relation between the taxpayer and the appropriation. See Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United States, supra. We conclude.
therefore, that the provisions of the legislation earmarking the funds collected are not of importance in determining whether or not the classification of the challenged
acts is discriminatory.
What we have said in showing that the Local Laws
do not deny the equal protection of the laws also disposes of the Corporation's contention that the Local Laws
constitute a deprivation of due process, as being measured without regard to the net income of or ruinous effect
on the taxpayers, and as laying on a particular class
a burden which should be borne by all.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
()pioion of the Cotrf.

303 U. S.

IV. Contracts Clause.' The Corporation contends that,
in contravention of the Constitution, Article 1, § 10,
the Local Laws impair the obligation of the contract
known as Contract No. 4, entered into March 19, 1913,
between its predecessor and the City, under which it
operates its owned and leased properties in New York.
By the terms of the contract, as summarized in the
Corporation's complaint, the City agreed to construct
certain rapid transit railroads, and the New York Municipal Railway Corporation, appellant's predecessor, agreed
to contribute a portion of the cost of construction and
to equip the railroads for operation. The latter further
agreed to reconstruct and build additions to certain existing railroads, which it then had the right and duty to
operate, so as to adapt them for operation in conjunction
with the railroads to be constructed by the City. Under
the terms of Contract No. 4, the City leased the railroads
which it agreed to construct, and their equipment, which
was to be furnished by the lessee, to the New York Municipal Railway Corporation, its successors and assigns,
for a term of forty-nine years commencing on or about
the first day of January, 1917, and the lessee agreed
to operate said railroads to be constructed by the City in
conjunction with the existing railroads as one system,
and for a single fare not exceeding five cents.
The gross receipts of all the railroads combined from
whatever source derived, directly or indirectly, were to
be pooled. The City and its lessee were to share the
receipts equally after the deduction of certain items provided in Article XLIX of Contract No. 4. It will suffice
here if we summarize the provisions for deductions in
'In No. 436, the legislation is not challenged as an impairment of an
obligation of contract. The Brooklyn and Queens Transit Corporal
tion "does not operate under Contract 4, but under street railroad
franchise from the City."

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

589

Opinion of the Court.

the language of appellant. The deductions were for the
following purposes and in the following order:
"1. Rentals actually paid by Lessee under leases approved by the Commission;
"2. Taxes [The full provision as to 'taxes' is set forth
later] ;
"3. Operating expenses exclusive of maintenance;
"4. Charges for maintenance of both the Railroad and
the Existing Railroads [Railroad refers to the system to
be constructed by the City; Existing Railroads refers to
the company-owned lines as they existed at the time of
execution of the contract];
"5. Charges for depreciation of the Railroad, the equipment, and the Existing Railroads;
"6. To be retained by the Lessee: 1/4th of $3,500,000,
representing the average income from operation of the
Existing Railroads;
"7. To be retained by the Lessee: 1/th of 6% per annum on (a) the Lessee's contribution to cost of construction of the Railroad, (b) cost of equipment furnished by
the Lessee, (c) cost of extensions and additional tracks
constructed by the Lessee, and (d) cost of reconstruction
of Existing Railroads (out of which quarterly payments
the Lessee is required to amortize such costs);
"8. To be retained by the Lessee: 1/
4th of the actual
annual interest payable by Lessee upon the cost of additional equipment, plus an amortization charge;
"9. To be paid to the City: 1/
4 th of the annual interest
payable by it upon its share of the cost of construction
of the Railroad plus an amortization charge;
"10. To be paid to the City: 1/4th of the annual interest payable by the City upon cost of construction of
additions to the Railroad plus an amortization charge;
. "11. 1% of the gross receipts, to be paid into a coiitingent reserve fund.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

"In connection with the above allocation provisions,
Contract No. 4 provided (Art. LI, p. 66) that if in any
quarter the gross receipts should be insufficient to meet
the various obligations and deductions above recited, the
deficits should be cumulative, and payment thereof should
be made in the order of priority above set forth."
The Corporation does not claim.that Contract No. 4
exempts it or its property from taxation generally. It does
assert that the City "may not, in the exercise of its governmental power, subject appellant to the payment of a
lax on or measured by the gross receipts of the combined
system of railroads," and that "by providing in specific
terms for the disposition and allocation of the entire gross
receipts, the parties necessarily precluded any kind of
tax or charge by the City which would directly and specifically al er ,uch disposition and allocation, to appellant's
prejudice, except in so far as any such tax or charge may
clearly be said to have been provided for in the contract
provisions as to the disposition of gross receipts."
The Corporation further complains that the tax payments deprive it of "a substantial part of the interest
and sinking fund allowance to which it was entitled"
under deductions Nos. 7 and 8 set out above. The loss
thus suffered was alleged to total more than $600,000.
We search in vain for any provision in the contract
which expressly exempts the Corporation from payment
of this tax, or indeed of any tax.
Yet this is what is
required before support can be obtained from the contracts clause. More than a hundred years ago it was stated
by Chief Justice Marshall, in Providence Bank v. Billings,
4 Pet. 514, 563, that the taxing power is of such "vital
importance" that "We must look for the exemption in
the language of the instrument; and if we do not find
it there, it would be going very far to insert it by construction." In Erie Ry. Co. V.Pennsylvania,21 Wall. 492,
499, this Court said that "the language in which the sur-

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

591

Opinion of the Court.

render is made must be clear and unmistakable." At the
present term, the Court has reiterated that contracts of
tax exemption are "to be read narrowly and strictly,"
Hale v. State Board, 302 U. S. 95, 109. See also Pacific
Co. v. Johnson, 285 U. S.480, 491; Puget Sound Power &
Light Co. v. Seattle, 291 U. S. 619, 627.
Not only is the Corporation unable to point to an unmistakable exemption, but the contract itself contains
an express provision permitting the deduction of taxes
from the gross receipts." Its language is broad. It refers
to "all taxes . . . of every description (whether on physical property, stock or securities, corporate or other
franchises, or otherwise) assessed or which may hereafter
be assessed against the Lessee in connection with . . . the
operation of the . . .Railroads." The taxes under discussion clearly come within its terms.
It is alleged that at the time of the execution of the
contracts, and prior to the passage of the state enabling
acts,1" the tax power of the City was confined to special
assessments for public improvements, and ad valorem
taxes on real estate and special franchises issued by the
City. The Corporation insists that it was contemplated
that no other type of tax would be assessed, and that it
was not necessary to make provision for exemption since
the Corporation was merely accepting the tax burden common to all owners of property. It is urged that the contract be interpreted from this point of view, and the
The clause reads as follows: "Taxes, if any, upon property actually
and necessarily used by the Lessee in the operation of the Railroad
and the Existing RailrQads, together with all taxes or other governmental charges of every description (whether on physical property,
stock or securities, corporate or other franchises, or otherwise) assessed
or which may hereafter be assessed againsi the Lessee in connection
with or incident to the operation of the Railroad and the Existing
Railroads. Also such assessments for benefits as are not properly
chargeable to cost of construction or cost of equipment."
"0See supra note 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

provision limited to taxes of the type which the City could
have imposed in 1913.
There is no reason to limit the ordinary meaning of
words used in a contract by men prepared to invest under
its terms. " . . . a business proposition involving the
outlay of very large sums cannot be and is not taken by
the parties concerned according to offhand impressions;
it is scrutinized phrase by phrase and word by word."
New York v. Sohmer, 237 U. S. 276, 284; cf. Ohio Ins. Co.
v. Debolt, 16 How. 416, 435.
Where the intention was to prevent the imposition of
new taxes, adequate language was available. The court
below adverted to its opinion in Brooklyn Bus Corp. v.
City of New York, 274 N. Y. 140; 8 N. E. 2d 309, where
the contract entitled the corporation to a broader tax
exemption because it provided that "any new form of tax
or additional charge that may be imposed by any ordinance
of the city or resolution of the Board upon or in respect
of the franchise . . . shall be deducted from the compensation payable to the City hereunder . . . "
A similar suggestion that the contract be limited to
the taxes known at the time of its making was urged
upon us, and discarded, in J. W. Perry Co. v. Norfolk, 220
U. S. 472. Under a lease made by Norfolk in 1792, when
Norfolk was a borough without power to tax, the lessee
agreed to pay, in addition to rent, "the public taxes which
shall become due on said land." The lessee sought to
enjoin the collection of taxes in 1906 by the City of Norfolk, on the ground that the parties contemplated only
taxes imposed by Virginia or the United States. This
Court held that the language was broad enough to cover
the city tax, saying (p. 480), that "the provision that the
lessee was to 'pay public taxes' was sufficiently comprehensive to embrace municipal -taxes whenever they could
thereafter be lawfully assessed on land or the improve-

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

593

Opinion of the Court.

ments which were a part of the land. Where one relies
upon an exemption from taxation, both the power to
exempt and the contract of exemption must be clear.
Any doubt or ambiguity must be resolved in favor of the
public."
Admitting that with respect to a franchise contract
silent as to taxes the city may validly impose a license tax
on the privilege of doing business, since "surrender of the
state's power to tax the privilege is not to be implied from
the grant of it," Puget Sound Power & Light Co. v.
Seattle, 291 U. S. 619, 627, it is urged by the Corporation
that here the City is violating the affirmative covenants
of a contract, namely, the provisions for allocation of
revenue. The contention is made that these provisions
preclude an "alteration" by virtue of a gross receipts
tax.
This Court, in construing a contract to determine
whether or not legislation is violative of its provisions
within the meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution, will examine for itself the existence and meaning
of the contract as well as the relation of the parties and
the circumstances of its execution. Appleby v. City of
New York, 271 U. S. 364, 379-380; Funkhouserv. Preston
Co., 290 U. S. 163, 167; Violet Trapping Co. v. Grace,
297 U. S. 119, 120. But of course in so doing we "lean
toward agreement with the courts of the state, and accept
their judgments as to such matters unless manifestly
wrong," Hale v. State Board, 302 U. S. 95, 101; Tampa
Water Works Co. v. Tampa, 199 U. S. 241,243-244; Southern Wisconsin Ry. Co. v. Madison, 240 U. S. 457, 461. In
this case the Court of Appeals of New York, 275 N. Y.
258,268; 9 N. E. 2d 858, has determined that "the right
to tax cannot be lost by such tenuous implication," i. e.,
on the theory that the tax enables the City to secure a
portion of the gross income in contravention of the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

tract. We see no reason for disagreeing with the conclusion of the Court of Appeals of New York upon this
point.
In effect, the Corporation is urging that a constructive
condition restricting the City's power of taxation should
be incorporated in the contract, by speculation as to what
the parties must necessarily have intended, despite the
long standing rule that exemptions must be "clear and
unmistakable." Erie Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall.
492, and other cases, all cited supra.
The Corporation professes to dread an interpretation
of the contract and the legislation, which will put it
"wholly at the mercy" of the City; under which the Corporation's gross receipts would be disposed of, not as Contract No. 4 provides, but as the City may from time to
time in its wisdom determine." The Corporation is not
deprived of its right to resist on constitutional or legal
grounds whatever tax or assessment may be imposed upon
it or its property. The City can not lay a gross receipts tax
on the Corporation unless it selects a class of taxpayers
which meets the requirement of the equal protection of
the laws. The provisions of the contract as to taxes are
certainly not sufficiently explicit to justify us in denying
to the City the right to collect such taxes as those ihvolved
in this litigation. The danger which the Corporation sees
from what it considers to be a violation by legislation
of its contract rights is a danger which every utility, with
a franchise which does not protect its property from
additional taxation, must endure.
Convincing precedent for the contention of the City is
found in North Missouri R. Co. v. Maguire, 20 Wall. 46,
where this Court considered a statute of Missouri which
provided that the railroad could issue bonds having priority over the State's mortgage. The Act made specific
provision for the allocation of the earnings of the Railroad
Company in much the same manner as Contract No. 4

RAPID TRANSIT CORP. v. NEW YORK.
573

595

Opinion of the Court.

does in the present case. The Act established a "fund
commissioner" and provided that the railroad company
should pay over to this commissioner "all the gross earnings and daily receipts." It was provided that the commissioner should first pay amounts required for "actual
current expenditures"; should then make other specified
deductions, and lastly, should apply any excess to certain
first mortgage bonds and then against the railroad's debt
to the State.
Subsequently the State Constitution was amended to
provide that an annual tax of 10% of the gross receipts
should be levied on the North Missouri Railroad Company and two other named corporations. The state court
held that the earlier statute constituted a contract but
considered the payment of taxes to fall within "current
expenditures for carrying on the ordinary business."
In this Court, the company argued that the tax constituted a violation of this contract, since it overturned
the allocation of receipts and had the effect of converting
the State from a junior creditor to a first mortgagee.
This Court agreed that "serious difficulty" would arise
if "the ordinance was a mere change of the order of
disbursing the receipts and earnings," instead of "an expression of the sovereign will of the people of the State
levying taxes to pay and discharge the indebtedness of
the State," but concluded that the tax actually imposed
was proper. Of the provisions for allocation of the gross
receipts, the Court said (p. 63):
"Further examination of those provisions is certainly
unnecessary, as it is too plain for argument that they do
not afford the slightest support to the views of the plaintiffs. On the contrary, they are entirely silent upon the
subject of taxation, and fully justify the remarks of the
State court when they say that the subject of taxation
forms no part of the contract contained in the act under
consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
303 U. S.

Syllabus.

"Nothing is said about taxation, and it does not seem
to have entered into the contract between the parties, but
was obviously left where the law had placed it before the
act was passed, nor was any provision made for the
payment of taxes unless it may be held that the disburse-

inents for that purpose may fairly be included in such
as are required to pay the current expenditures in carrying on the ordinary business of the corporation."
In our opinion, as the contract does not prohibit this
tax, the legislation does not violate the contracts clause.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE

and MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
SHANNAHAN ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 502. Argued February 28, March 1, 193S.-I)ccided April 4,1938.
The Railway Labor Act confers upon the National Mediation Board
certain duties respecting mediation or arbitration of labor controversies on railroad carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce
Act, with the proviso that the term "carrier" shall not include any
street, interurban, or suburban electric railway not operating as a
part of a general steam-railroad system of transportation, etc., and
directs the Interstate Commerce Commission upon request of the
Mediation Board or upon complaint of any party interested to
determine after hearing whether any line operated by electric power
falls within the proviso. Held:
1. That a decision of the Commission finding a railway not to
he a street, interurban, or suburban electric railway within the
meaning of the proviso was not an "order," either in form or in
substance, but a determination of fact, negative in character, and
not enforceable by the Commission or by the Board. Therefore
it was not reviewable under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913.
P. 599.

