INDIANA

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

95

Syllabus.

INDIANA

ANDERSON v. BRAND,
TRUSTEE.

EX REL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 256. Argued January 10, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.
1. Where a state court does not decide a cause upon an independent
state ground, but, deeming a federal question to be before it,
actually entertains and decides that question adversely to the
federal right asserted, this Court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment if final. P. 98.
2. This Court may not refuse jurisdiction because the state court
might have based its decision, consistently with the record, upon
an independent and adequate state ground. P. 98.
3. The opinion of the state court may be examined to ascertain
whether a federal question was raised and decided or whether the
court rested its judgment on an adequate non-federal ground.
P. 98.
4. Any doubt here as to whether the validity of the state statute
under the Federal Constitution was drawn into question, arising
from the generality of a reference in the opinion of the state court,
held removed by a oertificate signed by all the justices of the
state court, and made a part of the record, to the effect that the
reference was to Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution of the United
States. P. 99.
5. A legislative enactment may contain provisions which, when accepted as the basis of action by individuals, become contracts
between them and the State, within the protection of Art. I, § 10,
of the Federal Constitution. P. 100.
6. Where it is claimed that a state statute impairs the obligation
of a contract alleged to have been created by an earlier statute,
this Court, while according great weight to the views of the highest court of the State, must determine for itself questions as to
the existence and effect of the contract and as to whether its
obligation was impaired. P. 100.
7. The Indiana Teachers' Tenure Act of 1927 provided that a public
school teacher who had served under contract for five or more
successive years, and thereafter entered into a contract for further
service with the school corporation, thereby became a "permanent
teacher," and. that the contract, upon the expiration of its stated

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

term, should be deemed an "indefinite contract" and remain in
force until succeeded by a new contract signed by both parties or
cancelled in the manner provided in the Act. A permanent teacher's contract must be in writing and could be cancelled only after
notice and hearing, and for causes specified in the Act, but not
for political or personal reasons. The teacher could cancel only
upon five days' notice, but not during the school term nor within
30 days of the beginning thereof. An amendatory Act of 1933,
as construed by the state court, repealed the earlier Act in so
far as township teachers and schools were concerned, and permitted the termination of the employment of such teachers without
regard to the conditions and limitations of the earlier Act. Held
that, under the Act of 1927, the right of a permanent teacher to
continued employment upon an indefinite contract was contractual, and the obligation of such a contract in the case of a township teacher was unconstitutionally impaired by the Act of 1033.
P. 104.
8. Although every contract is made subject to the implied condition
that its fulfillment may be frustrated by proper exercise of the
police power, yet in order to have this effect the exercise of the
power must be for an end which is in fact public and the means
adopted must be reasonably adapted to that end. P. 108.
9. The state court's decision of a federal question in favor of the
defendant being erroneous, and it not having passed upon a second
ground of 'demurrer which appears to involve no federal question,
and which may present a defense still open to the defendant, the
cause is reversed and remanded for further proceedings. P. 109.
5 N. E. (2d) 531, 913; 7 N. E. (2d) 777, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 678, to review a judgment affirming the dismissal, on demurrer to the complaint, of an
action for a writ of mandate.
Messrs. Paul R. Shafer and Thomas F. O'Mara, with
whom Mr. Denver Harlanwas on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Raymond Brooks and Asa J. Smith, with whom
Mr. George C. Gertman was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner sought a writ of mandate to compel the

INDIANA

Ex REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

97

Opinion of the Court.

95

respondent' to continue her in employment as a public
school teacher. Her' complaint alleged that as a duly licensed teacher she entered into a contract in September,
1924, to teach in the township schools and, pursuant to
successive contracts, taught continuously to and including the school year 1932-1933; that her contracts for the
school years 1931-1932 and 1932-1933 contained this
clause: "It is further agreed by the contracting parties
that all of the provisions of the Teachers' Tenure Law,
approved March 8, 1927, shall be in full force and effect
in this contract"; and that by force of that Act she had
a contract, indefinite in duration, which could be cancelled by the respondent only in the manner and for the
causes specified in the Act. She charged that in July,
1933, the respondent notified her he proposed to cancel
her contract for cause; that, after a hearing, he adhered
to his decision and the County Superintendent affirmed
his action; that, despite what occurred in July, 1933, the
petitioner was permitted to teach during the school year
1933-1934 and the respondent was presently threatening
to terminate her employment at the end of that year.
The complaint alleged the termination of her employment would be a breach of her contract with the school
corporation. The respondent demurred on the grounds
that (1) the complaint'disclosed the matters pleaded had
been submitted to the respondent and the County Superintendent who were authorized to try the issues and had
lawfully determined them in favor of the respondent;
and (2) the Teachers' Tenure Law had been repdaled in
respect of teachers in township schools. The demurrer
was sustained and the petitioner appealed to the State
The proceeding was instituted against the respondent's predecessor who then held the office of School Trustee; the respondent was
subsequently substituted as defendant. Nothing turns on this'substitution and both trustees will be referred to as the respondent.
53383 °-38-----7

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Supreme Court which affirmed the judgment.2 The court
did not discuss the first ground of demurrer relating to the
action taken in the school year 1932-1933, but rested its
decision upon the second, that, by an Act of 1933, the
Teachers' Tenure Law had been repealed as respects
teachers in township schools; and held that the repeal
did not deprive the petitioner of a vested property right
and did not impair her contract within the meaning of
the Constitution. In its original opinion the Court said:
"The relatrix contends . . . that, having become a permanent teacher under the Teachers' Tenure Law before
the amendment, she had a vested property right in her
indefinite contract, which may not be impaired under the
Constitution. The question is whether there is a vested
right in a permanent teacher's contract; whether, under
the tenure law, there is a grant which cannot lawfully be
impaired by a repeal of the statute." Where the state
court does not decide against a petitioner or appellant
upon an independent state ground, but deeming the federal question to be before it, actually entertains and decides that question adversely to the federal right asserted,
this Court has jurisdiction to review the judgment if, as
here, it is A final judgment.' We cannot refuse jurisdiction because the state court might have based its decision, consistently with the record, upon an independent
and adequate non-federal ground. And since the amendment of the judiciary act of 1789 ' by the act of February
5, 18671 it has always been held this Court may examine
the opinion of the state court to ascertain whether a fed2

5 N. E. (2d) 531; on rehearing, 7 N. E. (2d) 777; dissenting

opinion of Treanor, J., 5 N. E. (2d) 913.
8
Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 635-6; Henderson Bridge Co.
v. Henderson, 173 U. S. 592, 608; Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240
U. S. 184, 188-189; Grayson v. Harris,267 U. S. 352, 358; Virginia v.
Imperial Coal Sales Co., 293 U. S. 15, 16; InternationalSteel Co. v.
National Surety Co., 297 U. S. 657, 666.
§ 25, 1 Stat. 85.
§ 2, 14 Stat. 386.

INDIANA
95

EX BEL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

99

Opinion of the Court.

eral question was raised and decided, and whether the
court rested its judgment on an adequate non-federal
ground.' Any ambiguity arising from the generality of
the court's reference to the Constitution is resolved by a
certificate signed by all the Justices of the Court, made a
part of the record, to the effect that the reference to the
Constitution in the opinion was to Art. I, § 10 of the
Constitution of the United States. It thus appearing
that the constitutional validity of the repealing act was
drawn in question, and the statute sustained, we. issued
the writ of certiorari.
The court below holds that in Indiana teachers' contracts are made for but one year; that there is no contractual right to be continued as a teacher from year to
year; that the law grants a privilege to one who has
taught five years and signed a new contract to continue
in employment under given conditions; that the statute
is directed merely to the exercise of their powers by the
school authorities and the policy therein expressed may
be altered at the will of the legislature; that in enacting
laws for the government of public schools the legislature
exercises a function of sovereignty and the power to control public policy in respect of their management and operation cannot be contracted away by one legislature so
as to create a permanent public policy unchangeable by
succeeding legislatures. In the alternative the court declares that if the relationship be considered as controlled
by the rules of private contract the provision for reamMurdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 633-634; Kreiger V. Shelby R.
Co., 125 U. S. 39, 44; Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 163 U. S.
416, 421; Thompson v. Maxwell Land Grant Co, 168 U. S. 451, 456;
Columbia Water Power Co. v. Columbia Electric St. Ry. Co., 172
U. S. 475, 488-489; Abie State Bank v. Bryan, 282 U. S. 765, 771;
Utley v. St. Petersburg,292 U. S. 106, 111; Fox Film Corp. v. Muller,
296 U. S. 207, 209.
'International Steel Co. v. National Surety Co., 297 U. S. 657,
662.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

ployment from year to year is unenforceable for want of
mutuality.
As in most cases brought to this court under the contract clause of the Constitution, the question is as to
the existence and nature of the contract and not as to the
construction of the law which is supposed to impair it.
The principal function of 'a legislative body is not to make
contracts but to make laws which declare the policy of
the state and are subject to repeal when a subsequent
legislature shall determine to alter that policy. Nevertheless, it is established that a legislative enactment may
contain provisions which, when accepted as the basis of
action by individuals, become contracts between them
and the State ur its subdivisions within the protection of
Art. I, § 10.' If the people's representatives deem it in
the public interest they may adopt a policy of contracting in respect of public business for a term longer than
the life of the current session of the legislature. This the
petitioner claims has been done with respect to permanent teachers. The Supreme Court has decided, however, that it is the state's policy not to bind school corporations by contract for more than one year.
On such a question, one primarily of state law, we
accord respectful consideration and great weight to the
views of the State's highest court but, in order that the
constitutional mandate may not become a dead letter, we
are bound to decide for ourselves whether a contract was
made, what are its terms and conditions, and whether the
State has, by later legislation, impaired its obligationY
This involves an appraisal of the statutes of the State and
the decisions of its courts.
The courts of Indiana have long recognized that the
employment of school teachers was contractual and have
'New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104, 113, 114.
Phelps v. Board of Education, 300 U. S. 319, 322, and cases cited.

INDIANA
95

EX EPL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

101

Opinion of the Court.

afforded relief in actions upon teachers' contracts. 10 An
Act adopted in 1899 11 required all contracts between
teachers and school corporations to be in writing, signed
by the parties to be charged, and to be made a matter of
public record. A statute of 1921 12 enacted that every such
contract should be in writing and should state the date of
the beginning of the school term, the number of months
therein, the amount of the salary for the term, and the
number of payments to be made during the school year.
In 1927 the State adopted the Teachers' Tenure Act 13
under which the present controversy arises. The pertinent portions are copied in the margin. 4 By this Act it
was provided that a teacher who has served under con" City of Crawfordsville v. Hays, 42 Ind. 200; Charlestown School
Twp. v. Hay, 74 Ind. 127; Harrison School Twp. v. McGregor, 96
Ind. 185; Kiefer v. Troy School Twp., 102 Ind. 279; 1 N. E. 560;
Sparta School Twp. v. Mendell, 138 Ind. 188; 37 N. E. 604; School
City'of Lafayette v. Bloom, 17 Ind. App. 461; 46 N. E. 1016; Henry
School Twp. v. Meredith, 32 Ind. App. 607; 70 N. E. 393; Gregg
School Twp. v. Hinshaw, 76 Ind. App. 503; 132 N. E. 586.
11
Act of Feb. 28, 1899, G. L. Ind. 1899, p. 173, Burns' Ind. Stat.
Ann. 1933, §§ 28-4302 and 28--4303.
'Act of March 7, 1921; Acts of 1921, p. 195; Burns' Ind. Stat.
Ann. 1933, § 2&-4304.
"Act of March 8, 1927; Acts of 1927, p. 259, Burns' Ind. Stat.
Ann. Supp. 1929, § 6967.1.
1,"Section 1. Be it enacted by the general assembly of the
State
of Indiana, That any person who has served or who shall serve under
contract as a teacher in any school corporation in the State of Indiana for five or more successive years, and who shall hereafter enter
into a teacher's contract for further service with such corporation,
shall t1ereupon become a permanent teacher of such school corporation .... Upon the expiration of any contract between such
school corporation and a permanent teacher, such contract shall be
deemed to continue in effect for an indefinite period and shall be
known as an indefinite contract. Such an indefinite contract shall
remain in force unless succeeded by a new contract signed by both
parties or unless it shall be cancelled as provided in ,section*2 of this
act: Provided, That teachers' contracts shall provide for the annual
determination of the date of beginning and length of school terms by

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

tract for five or more successive years, and thereafter
enters into a contract for further service with the school
corporation, shall become a permanent teacher and the
contract, upon the expiration of its stated term, shall be
deemed to continue in effect for an indefinite period, shall
be known as an indefinite contract, and shall remain in
force unless succeeded by a new contract or cancelled as
provided in the Act. The corporation may cancel the
the school corporation: and, Provided, further, That teachers' contracts may contain provisions for the fixing of the amount of annual
compensation from year to year by a salary schedule adopted by
the school corporation and such schedule shall be deemed to be a
part of such contract: and, Provided, further, That such schedule
may be changed by such school corporation on or before May 1st
of any year, such changes to become effective at the beginning of the
following school year: Provided, That all teachers affected by such
changes shall be furniched with printed copies of such changed
schedule within thirty days after its adoption.
"Sec. 2. Any indefinite contract with a permanent teacher as defined
in section 1 of this act may be cancelled only in the following
manner: Not less than thirty days nor more than forty days
before the consideration by any qchool corporation of the cancellation
of any such contract, such teacher shall be notified in writing of the
exact date, time when and place where such consideration is to take
t
place; and such teacher slall be furnished a written s atement
of the reasons for such consideration, within five days after any
written request for such statement; and such teacher shall, upon
written request for a hearing, filed within fifteen days after the
receipt by said teacher of notice of date, time and place of such
consideration, be given such a hearing before the school board, in
the case of cities and towns, and before the township trustee, in
the case of townships; such hearing shall be held not less than
five days after such request is filed and such teacher shall be given
not less than five days' notice of the time and place of such hearing.
Such teacher, at the hearing, shall have a right to a full statement
of the reasons for the proposed cancellation of such contract, and
shall have a right to be heard, to present the testimony of witnesses
and other evidence bearing upon the reasons for the proposed cancellation of such contract. No such contract shall be cancelled until

INDIANA
95

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

103

Opinion of the Court.

contract, after notice and hearing, for incompetency,
insubordination, neglect of duty, immorality, justifiable
decrease in the number of teaching positions, or other good
or just cause, but not for political or personal reasons.
The teacher may not cancel the contract during the school
term nor for a period of thirty days previous to the beginning of any term (unless by mutual agreement) and may
cancel only upon five days' notice.
the date set for consideration of the cancellation of such contract;
nor until after a hearing is held, if such hearing is requested by
said teacher; nor until, in the case of teachers, supervisors, and
principals, the city or town superintendents, in cities and towns,
and the county superintendents, in townships and in cities and
towns not having superintendents, shall have given the school corporation his recommendations thereon, and it shall be the duty
of such superintendent to present such recommendations upon five
days' written notice to him by such school corporation. . . . Cancellation of an indefinite contract of a permanent teacher may be made
for incompetency, insubordination (which shall be deemed to mean
a wilful refusal to obey the school laws of this state or reasonable
rules prescribed for the government of the public schools of such
corporation), neglect of duty, immorality, justifiable decrease in
the number of teaching positions or other good and just cause, but
may not be made for political or personal reasons: . ..
"Sec. 4. No permanent teacher shall be permitted to cancel his
indefinite contract during the school term for which his said contract
is in effect nor for a period of thirty (30) days previous to the
beginning of such school term unless such cancellation is mutually
agreed upon; such permanent teacher shall be permitted to cancel
his indefinite contract at any other time by giving a five days' notice
to the school corporation. Any permanent teacher cancelling his
indefinite contract in any other manner than in this section provided
shall be deemed guilty of unprofessional conduct and the state
superintendent is hereby authorized to suspend the license of such
teacher for a period of not exceeding one year. . ..
"Sec. 6. This act shall be construed as supplementary to an act
of the general assembly, page 195, acts 1921, entitled, 'An act
concerning teachers' contracts and providing for the repeal of
conflicting laws.'"

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

By an amendatory Act of 1933 15 township school corporations were omitted from the provisions of the Act
of 1927. The court below construed this Act as repealing
the Act of 1927 so far as township schools and teachers
are concerned and as leaving the respondent free to
terminate the petitioner's employment. But we a~e of
opinion that the petitioner had a valid contract with
the respondent, the obligation of which would be impaired
by the termination of her employment.
Where the claim is that the State's policy embodied
in a statute is to bind its instrumentalities by contract,
the cardinal inquiry is as to the terms of the statute
supposed to create such a contract. The State long prior
to the adoption of the Act of 1927 required the execution
of written contracts between teachers and school corporations, specified certain subjects with which such contracts must deal, and required that they be made a matter
of public record. These were annual contracts, covering
a single school term. The Act of 1927 announced a new
policy that a teacher who had served for five years under
successive contracts, upon the execution of another was
to become a permanent teacher and the last contract
was to be indefinite as to duration and terminable by
either party only upon compliance with the conditions
set out in the statute. The policy which induced the legislstion evidently was that the teacher should have proteetion against the exercise of the right, which would
o herwise inhere in the employer, of terminating the employment at the end of any school term without assigned
reasons and solely at the employer's pleasure. The state
courts in earlier cases so declared."8
Act of March 1, 1933, Acts of 1933, p. 716, Burns' Ind. Stat.
Ann. 1933, § 28-4307.
" Ratcliff v. Dick Johnson School Twp., 204 Ind. 525.; 185 N. E.
143; Kostanzer v. State, 205 Ind. 536; 187 N. E. 337; State v. Stout,
206 Ind. 58; 187 N. E. 267; Arburn v. Hunt, 207 Ind. 61; 191 N. E.
148.

INDIANA
95

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

105

Opinion of the Court.

The title of the Act is couched in terms of contract.
It speaks of the making and cancelling of indefinite
contracts. In the body the word "contract" appears ten
times in § 1, defining the relationship; eleven times in
§ 2, relating to the termination of the employment by
the employer, and four times in § 4, stating the conditions
of termination by the teacher.
The tenor of the Act indicates that the word "contract"
was not used inadvertently or in other than its usual
legal meaning. By § 6 it is expressly provided that the
Act is a supplement to that of March 7, 1921, supra, requiring teachers' employment contracts to be in writing.
By § 1 it is provided that the written contract of a permanent teacher "shall be deemed to continue in effect for
an indefinite period and shall be known as an indefinite
contract." Such an indefinite contract is to remain in
force unless succeeded by a new contract signed by both
parties or cancelled as provided in § 2. No more apt
language could be employed to define a contractual relationship. By § 2 it is enacted that such indefinite contracts may be cancelled by the school corporation only in
the manner specified. The admissible grounds of cancellation, and the method by which the existence of su;h
grounds shall be ascertained and made a matter of record,
are carefully set out. Section 4 permits cancellation by
the teacher only at certain times consistent with the convenient administration of the school system and imposes
a sanction for violation of its requirements. Examination of the entire Act convinces us that the teacher was
by it assured of the possession of a binding and enforceable contract against school districts.
Until its decision in the present case the Supreme
Court of the State had uniformly held that the teacher's
right to continued employment by virtue of the indefinii
contract created pursuant to the Act was contractual.
In School City of Elwood v. State ex rel. Griffin, 203
Ind. 626; 180 N. E. 471, it was said (p. 634):

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

"The position of a teacher in the public schools is not
a public office, but an employment by contract between
the teacher and the school corporation. The relation remains contractual after the teacher has, under the provisions of a teachers' tenure law, become a permanent
teacher-but the terms and conditions of the contract
are thereafter governed primarily by the statute."
In Kostanzer v. State, 205 Ind. 536; 187 N. E. 337, an
action in mandate to compel reinstatement of a discharged
teacher, it was said (p. 547):
"If appellee's position is not an office appellants insist
that mandamus is not available for the reason that the
granting of mandatory relief results in enforcing a purely
contractual right. It is true that mandatory relief against
appellants will result in enforcing appellee's rights under
her contract; but the duty which the judgment of the
trial court compelled appellants to perform was a duty
enjoined by statute and not by contract. The contract
between appellants and appellee created a relation which
entitled appellee to have appellants perform the duty in
question; but the duty was not imposed by any proviSion of the contract."
And in the same case' it was also said (pp. 548-549):
"The tenure act permits a teacher to cancel his contract
at any time after the close of a school term up to thirty
days prior to the beginning of the next school term, provided five days' notice is given, and appellant contends
'that there was no contract between appellee and appellants for the reason 'that a contract which does not bind
both parties binds neither of them.' This proposition is
'undoubtedly supported by the law of contracts. But there
is nothing in the law of contracts to prevent one party
to a contract granting to the other the privilege of rescission or cancellation on terms not reserved to the former
party. The local school corporations are agents of the
state in the administration of the public schools and the

INDIANA
95

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

107

Opinion of the Court.

General Assembly has the power to prescribe the terms of
the contract to be executed by these agents."
In State v. Board of School Commissioners of Indianapolis, 205 Ind. 582; 187 N. E. 392, an action in mandate
to compel reinstatement of a discharged teacher, the court
referred to the indefinite contract of a permanent teacher
and held that it remained in full force and effect until
succeeded by a new contract or cancelled as provided in
§ 2 of the Act.
In Arburn v. Hunt, 207 Ind. 61; 191 N. E. 148, it is
said: "The source of authority for the so-called permanent
teacher's contract is the statute. The legislature need not
have provided for such contracts, but, since it did so provide, the entire statute, with all of its provisions, must
be read into and considered as a part of the contract."
We think the decision in this case runs counter to the
policy evinced by the Act of 1927, to its explicit mandate
and to earlier decisions construing its provisions. Also
that the decision in Phelps v. Board of Education, 300
U. S. 319, that the Act there considered did not create a
contract, is not, as the court below suggests, authority for
a like result here. Dodge v. Board of Education, 302
U. S. 74, on which the respondent relies is distinguishable, because the statute there involved did not purport
to bind the respondent by contract to the payment of
retirement annuities, and similar legislation in respect of
other municipal employees had been consistently con-,
strued by the courts as not creating contracts.
The respondent urges that every contract is subject
to the police power and that in repealing the Teachers'
Tenure Act the legislature validly exercised that reserved
power of the state. The sufficient answer is found in the
statute. By § 2 of the Act of 1927 power is given to the
school corporation to cancel a teacher's indefinite contract
for incompetency, insubordination (which is to be deemed
to mean wilful refusal to obe'y the school laws of the

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

state or reasonable rules prescribed by the employer),
neglect of duty, immorality, justifiable decrease in the
number of teaching positions or other good and just
cause. The permissible reasons for cancellation cover
every conceivable basis for such action grbwing out of a
deficient performance of the obligations undertaken by
the teacher, and diminution of the school requirements.
Although the causes specified constitute in themselves
just and reasonable grounds for the termination of any
ordinary contract of employment, to preclude the assumption that any other valid ground was excluded by
the enumeration, the legislature added that the relation
might be terminated for any other good and just cause.
Thus in the declaration of the state's policy, ample reservations in aid of the efficient administration of the school
system were made. The express prohibitions are that the
contract shall not be cancelled for political or personal
reasons. We do not think the asserted change of policy
evidenced by the repeal of the statute is that school boards
may be at liberty to cancel a teacher's contract for political or personal reasons. We do not understand the respondent so to contend. The most that can be said for
his position is that, by the repeal, township school corporations were again put upon the basis of annual contracts, renewable at the pleasure of the board. It is significant that the Act of 1933 left the system of permanent
teachers and indefinite contracts untouched as respects
school corporations in cities and towns of the state. It
is not contended, nor can it be thought, that the legislature of 1933 determined that it was against public policy
for school districts in cities and towns to terminate the
employment of teachers of five or more years' experience
for political or personal reasons and to permit cancellation,
for the same reasons, in townships.
Our decisions recognize that every contract is made
subject to the implied condition that its fulfillment may

INDIANA
95

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

109

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

be frustrated by a proper exercise of the police power
but we have repeatedly said that, in order to have this
effect, the exercise of the power must be for an end
which is in fact public and the means adopted must be
reasonably adapted to that end,' and the Supreme Court
of Indiana has taken the same view in respect of legislation impairing the obligation of the contract of a state
instrumentality.1 8 The causes of cancellation provided
in the Act of 1927 and the retention of the system of
indefinite contracts in all municipalities except townships
by the Act of 1933 are persuasive that the repeal of the
earlier Act by the latter was not an exercise of the police
power for the attainment of ends to which its exercise
may properly be directed.
As the court below has not passed upon one of the
grounds*of demurrer which appears to involve no federal
question, and may present a defense still open to the respondent, we reverse the judgment and remand the cause
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the, considera-

tion or decision of this case.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

In my opinion this reversal unconstitutionally limits
the right of Indiana to control Indiana's public school'
system. I believe the judgment should be affirmed
because:
Home Bdg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S.398, 438; Worthen
Co. v. Thomas, 292 U. S.426, 431, 432; Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh,
295'U. S. 56, 60; Treigle v. Acme Homestead Assn., 297 U. S. 189,
197.
" Central Union Tel. Co. v. Indianapolis Tel. Co., 189 Ind. 210;
126 N. E. 628; Downing v. Indiana State Board of Agriculture,
129 Ind. 443; 28 N. E. 123.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

110

BLACK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

(1) It does not appear in the record that a federal
question was necessarily involved in the decision of the
state court; 1
(2) The record does not disclose beyond a reasonable
doubt ' that Indiana, by the Teachers Act of 1927, surrendered its sovereign, governmental right to change and
alter at will legislative policy related to the public welfare, or that its legislatur'e had the power to do so.
First. It does not appear from the record that a federal question "was nec ssarily involved in the decision;
and that the state court could not have given the judgment or decree which they passed, withoift deciding it." S
Therefore, "it is a matter of no consequence to us that
the court may have gone further and decided a federal
question." ' "Where a case in this Court can be decided
without reference to questions arising under the Federal
Constitution, that course is usually pursued and is not
departed from without important reasons."
Petitioner's complaint disclosed: that, after a hearing,
she was removed from her position as a teacher for causes
including those set out in the statute, i. e., (1) "neglect
of duty" and (2) "for other good and just cause"; and
that the county superintendent, on appeal, approved her
removal. A demurrer was sustained to the complaint.
The demurrer assigned the general ground that the complaint failed to "state facts sufficient to constitute a good
cause of action." One of the specific reasons set out for
demurrer was that the complaint showed on its face that
petitioner had been removed only after a proper notice
and hearings before the township trustee and the county
superintendent, in accordance with the requirements of
the Act.
Moore v. Mississippi, 21 Wall. 636, 639.
Cf. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270.
8

Armstrong v. Treasurer of Atnens County, 16 Pet. 281, 285.
'Moore v. Mississippi, supra.
'Siler v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 213 U. S. 175, 193.

INDIANA
95

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

111

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Under these circumstances, we can consider the decision
of the Indiana courts as based on a finding of inadequacy
in petitioner's complaint under Indiana law. This Court
does not decide "questions of a constitutional nature
unless absolutely necessary to a decision of the case." 6
We should not depart from this policy in order to strike
down a law passed by a state in its sovereign capacity
to establish legislative policies for the education of its
people.
neither the
Second. This Court has declared that "...
[Fourteenth] amendment . . .'nor any other amendment, was designed to interfere with the power of the
State, sometimes termed its police power, to prescribe
regulations to promote . . .education . . . of the people
• Article 8, § 1 of the Constitutiomof Indiana provides: "Knowledge and learning, generally diffused
throughout a community, being essential to the preservation of a free government; it shall be the duty of the
General Assembly.. . . to provide, by law, for a general
and uniform system of Common Schools, wherein tuition
shall be without charge, and equally open to all." In carrying out this constitutional mandate to provide education for the people of the State, the legislature of Indiana
has found it necessary-as have other States--to alter
legislative policy from time to time. The statutes and the
decisions of Indiana indicate a laudable desire and a commendable effort not only to -provide sufficient funds to
'Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283, 295. "If the experience
of one hundred and ffty years of constitutional interpretation has
taught any lesson, it is the unwisdom of making solemn declarations
as to the meaning of that instrument which are unnecessary to decision. They can serve no useful purpose and their only effect may be
to embarrass the Court when decision becomes necessary. O'Donoghue v. United States, 289 U. S. 516, 550; Humphrey's Executor v.
United States, 295 U. S. 602, 626-627." Stone, J., dissenting, Wright
v. United States, 302 U. S. 583, 604.
"Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BiAcK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

carry out these educational aspirations of the State, but
also to provide reasonable security of employment for
teachers. Such effort brought about the "Indiana
Teachers Tenure Act of 1927." This law provided the
conditions upon which "permanent" teachers with "indefinite contracts" could be removed from their positions, and
was evidently intended to provide statutory security
against their discharge by local school authorities for any
causes except those specified in the law. These "permanent" teachers could cancel their "indefinite contracts"
upon five days' notice at any time except during the school
term or for a period of thirty days previous to it.
In 1933, the legislative representatives of the people
of Indiana decided to change this policy by excluding
township school corporations from its operation. The
contention here is that the statutory tenure given teachers
under the 1927 Act amounted to contracts with the state
which could not be impaired by repeal or modification of
the law.
The Indiana Supreme Court has consistently held, even
before its decision in this case, that the right of teachers,
under the 1927 Act, to serve until removed for cause, was
not given by contract, but by statute. Such was the
express holding in the two cases cited in the majority
opinion: Kostanzer v. State, 205 Ind. 536; 187 N. E. 337;
and Elwood v. State, 203 Ind. 626; 180 N. E. 471.
In Kostanzer v. State, supra, a teacher filed petition for
mandamus alleging removal contrary to the "indefinite
contract" obligation under the Act of* 1927. Mandamus
was opposed as an improper remedy because the teachers
sought to compel action under a teachers tenure "contract." Denying the contention that the teacher's rights
were fixed by contract, the Supreme Court of Indiana
said:
"But the duty which the judgment of the trial court
compelled appellants to perform was a duty enjoined by

INDIANA
95

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

113

BLA CK, J., dissenting.

statute and not by contract. . . . the duty was not imposed by any provision of the contract. In School City
of Elwood v. State ex rel. Griffin, supra, this same contention was disposed of in the following language: 'It is
because of appellees' right under this statute . . . that
mandamus is the proper remedy in this case. . . . A
public school teacher who, under a positive provision of
the statute, has a fixed tenure of employment or can be
removed only in a certain manner prescribed by the statute, is entitled to reinstatement if he has been removed
from his posion in violation of his statutory rights.'"
These cases demonstrate that the Supreme Court of
Indiana has uniformly held that teachers did not hold
their "indefinite" tenure under contract, but by grant
of a repealable statute. In order to hold in this case
that a contract was impaired, it is necessary to create a
contract unauthorized by the Indiana legislature and declared to be non-existent by the Indiana Supreme Court.
In the similar case of Phelps v. Board of Education,
300 U. S. 319, coming to this Court from New Jersey,
the Supreme Court of that State declared that:
"The status of tenure teachers, while in one sense perhaps contractual, is in essence dependent on a statute,
. . . which the legislature at will may abolish, or whose
emoluments it may change."
Under the New Jersey Act, which appears in the margin,8 teachers could serve during "good behavior and
'The New Jersey Act (as quoted in Phelps v. Board of Education,
300 U. S. 319, 320-321):
Section 1 (4 N. J. Comp. St. 1910, p. 4763). "The service of all
teachers, principals, supervising principals of the public schools in
any school district of this State shall be during good behavior and
efficiency, after the expiration of a period of employment of three
consecutive years in that district, unless a shorter period is fixed by
the employing board; . . . No principal or teacher shall be dismissed or subjected to reduction of salary in said school district except for inefficiency, incapacity, conduct unbecoming a teacher or
53383 °-38-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

efficiency" and subject to removal only after a hearing
and for cause. The Supreme' Court of New Jersey
declared that the tenure of New Jersey teachers was "in
one sense perhaps contractual." The Supreme Court of
Indiana declared that the tenure of Indiana teachers was
not contractual. Yet this Court in the case of Phelps v.
Board of Education, supra, decided that New Jersey's
discharge of its teachers employed by the State "in a
sense perhaps contractual" did not impair their contracts.
The Court now strikes down Indiana's Teachers Tenure
Law after repeated decisions by the state's Supreme Court
that the teachers tenure is not contractual. The intent
of the New Jersey Act and the intent of the Indiana Act
were evidently identical and in view of this fact, I believe
that the decision on the New Jersey appeal and the
majority decision on the Indiana appeal are irreconcilable.
The Act of 1927 certainly does not clearly establish that
the people of Indiana intended to surrender their sovereign right to change their educational policies from time
to time to meet new needs or changed conditions. Under
these circumstances "The presumption is that such a law
(Teachers Tenure Law) is not intended to create private
contractual or vested rights but merely declares a policy to
be pursued until the legislature shall ordain otherwise. '
It is the end of every government to promote the general welfare of its people and we do not assume "that the
government intended to diminish its power of accomplishing the end for which it was created." 10
The Supreme Court of Indiana here held that "the
Tenure Law does not purport to give a teacher a definite
other just cause, and after a written charge of the cause or causes
shall have been preferred against him or her, . . . and after the charge

shall have been examined into and found true in fact by said Board
of Education, upon reasonable notice to the person charged, who may
be represented by counsel at the hearing. .. ."
'Dodge v. Board of Education, 302 U. S. 74, 79.
10 Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 547.

INDIANA
95

EX REL.

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

115

BAacK, J., dissenting.

and permanent contract. The word 'indefinite' is used in
The Tenure statute was only
the statute itself....
intended as a limitation upon the plenary power of local
school officials to cancel contracts. . . . It was not
intended as, and cannot be, a limitation upon the power
of future Legislatures to change the law respecting
teachers and their tenures. These are matters of public
policy, of purely governmental concern, in which the legislative power cannot be exhausted or consumed, or contracted away, so as to limit the discretion of future
General Assemblies." "'
Prior to this decision and even before the 1927 Act,
the Supreme Court of Indiana had said:
"With that [legislative] determination [relating to
educational matters] the judiciary can no more rightfully
interfere, than can the Legislature with a decree or judgment pronounced by a judicial tribunal...
"As the power over schools is a legislative one, it is not
exhausted by exercise. The Legislature having tried one
plan is not precluded from trying another. It has a
choice of methods, and may change its plans as often as
it deems necessary or expedient; and for mistakes or
abuses it is answerable to the people, but not to the
court." 12
The clear purport of Indiana law is that its legislature
cannot surrender any part of its plenary constitutional
right to repeal, alter or amend existing legislation relating
to the school system whenever the conditions demand
change for the public good. Under Indiana law the legislature can neither barter nor give away its constitutional
investiture of power. It can make no contract in conflict
with this sovereign power. The construction of the constitution of Indiana by the Supreme Court of Indiana
must be accepted as correct. That court holds that Indi11 5. N. E. (2d) 531, 532.
"State ex rel. Clark v. Haworth, 122 Ind. 462; 23 N. E. 946.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

ana's Constitution invests Indiana's legislature with continuing power to change Indiana's educational policies.
It has here held that the legislature did not attempt or
intend to surrender its constitutional power by authorizing definite contracts which would prevent the future
exercise of this continuing, constitutional power. If the
constitution and statutes of Indiana, as construed by its
Supreme Court, prohibit the legislature from making a
contract which is inconsistent with a continuing power to
legislate, there could have been no definite contracts to
be impaired. "The contracts designed to be protected
by the [Federal Constitution] . . . are contracts by
which perfect rights, certain definite, fixed private rights
of property, are vested. . . . It follows, then, upon
principle, that, in every perfect or competent government,
there must exist a general power to enact and to repeal
laws; and to create, and change or discontinue, the agents
designated for the execution of those laws." 18
Merits of a policy establishing a permanent teacher
tenure law are not for consideration here. We are dealing
with the constitutional right of the people of a sovereign
state to control their own public school system as they
deem best for the public welfare. This Court should
neither make it impossible for states to experiment in
the matter of security of tenure for their teachers, nor
deprive them of the right to change a policy if it is found
that it has not operated successfully.
The Indiana Constitution gives the State legislature
complete authority to control the public school system.
The State Supreme Court declares that under this authority the legislature can change school plans as often as
it believes a change will promote the interest of education
"and for mistakes or abuses it is answerable to the people,
Butler v. Pennsylvania, 10 How. 402, 416.

INDIANA
95

EX REL.
BLACK,

ANDERSON v. BRAND.

117

J., dissenting.

but not to the court."'4 I believe the people of Indiana,
if they prefer, have the right under the Federal Constitution to entrust this important rublic policy to their
elective representatives rather than to the courts. Democracy permits the people to rule. I cannot agree that
the constitutional prohibition against impairment of contracts was intended to-or does-transfer in part the de-termination of the educational policy of Indiana from the
legislature of that State to this Court.
Indiana, in harmony with our national tradition, seeks
to work out a school system, offering education to all, as
"essential to the preservation of free government." That
great function of an advancing society has heretofore been
exercised by the states. I find no constitutional authority
for this Court to appropriate that power. Indiana's highest court has said that the State did not, and has strongly
indicated that the legislature could not, make contracts
with a few citizens, that would take away from all the
citizens, the continuing power to alter the educational
policy for the best interests of Indiana school children.
The majority decision now places in this Court a power
which has been exercised by the states since the adoption
of our Constitution. The people have not surrendered
that power to this Court by constitutional amendment.
For these reasons I cannot agree to the majority decision and I believe the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Indiana should be affirmed.

"4State ex rel. Clark v. Haworth, supra.

