OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

and cure of a kind and for a period which can be definitely
ascertained.
The courts below have made no findings sufficient to
enable us to fix the amount which respondent is entitled
to recover. The decree is accordingly reversed and the
cause remanded to the district court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion, and without prejudice to any later suit by respondent to recover maintenance and cure to which he may then be entitled.
-

MR. JUSTICE BLACK is of

Reversed.

opinion that the judgment

should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ADAMS, RECEIVER, v. NAGLE ET

AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 123.

Argued December 16, 17, 1937. Reargued March 8, 9,
1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

Stockholders of the "P" and "R" national banks brought bills in
equity to enjoin the receiver from enforcing assessments, ordered
by the Comptroller of the Currency pursuant to the statute governing the additional liability of shareholders, on the grounds that
the action of the Comptroller in ordering the assessments was in
excess of his statutory power, arbitrary, capricious, and a denial
of due process of law. The bills alleged, inter alia, that the Comptroller erroneously disregarded agreements theretofore entered into
between the "P" and "R" and the "F" banks, whereby the first
two conveyed all of their assets to the last, which assumed all of
their liabilities except liabilities to stockholders, and out of which
*Together with No. 124, Adams, Receiver, v. Tobias et al., also on
writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit.

A])AIS v. NAGLE.
5:32

(ouslel for Parties.

agreements arose claims against the "F" bank sufficient to 1pay the
debts of the "P" and "It" h~anks without the necessity of assessment of stockholders. Upon the allegal ions of the bills, held:
1. The assessments were not subject to attack or frustration in
these proceedings upon the grounds set forth in the bills. P. 5,38.
2. The agreements between the banks did not effect a consolidation in conformity with the National Banking Act, and the Comptroller was bound to deal with them, so far as their assets and
liabilities were concerned and in respect of stockholders' liability,
as three separate entities. P. 538.
3. It was not a condition precedent to the validity of the assessments that the Comptroller should have exhausted the assets of
the "P" and "R" banks. P. 539.
4. The Comptroller's determination as. to the necessity for the
assessments was made in the exercise of the discretionary power
vested in him and was final and conclusive. P. 540.
5. Collection of the assessments could not be made to await the
outcome of litigation challenging the correctness of the Comptroller's decision as to the effect of the agreements between the
banks. P. 544.
88 F. 2d 936, reversed.

302 U. S. 665, to review a decree reversing
orders of the District Court dismissing the bills of complaint in two suits brought by stockholders of two insolvent national banks to enjoin the receiver from enforcing assessments ordered by the Comptroller of the
Currency. By order of the trial court the cases were
CERTIORAm,

consolidated for the purpose of appeal.

Messrs. Charles E. Wainwright and George P. Barse,
with whom Messrs. Brice Clagett and Charles W. Matten
were on the brief, for petitioners on the reargument and
on the original argument.
Mr. Lemuel B. Schofield, with whom Messrs. Edward
W. Madeiraand W. Bradley Ward were on the brief, for
respondents on the reargument and on the original
argument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS

303 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are stockholders' suits to enjoin the receiver of
two national banks from -enforcing assessments ordered
by the Comptroller of the Currency pursuant to the statute governing the additional liability of shareholders.'
The respondents in No. 123 are stockholders of the
Penn National Bank and Trust Company of Reading,
Pennsylvania; those in No. 124 are stockholders of the
Reading National Bank and Trust Company of the same
city; and the petitioner is receiver of both banks. The
controversy has its origin in a transaction between the
two banks and the Farmers National Bank and Trust
Company of Reading. The causes of action are identical
and it will suffice to outline the allegations of the bill
in No. 123. These are:
On February 17, 1933, Penn and Reading were subjected to unusual withdrawals which depleted their reserves and placed both on the verge of insolvency. Due
to this condition the two banks on that date entered into
an agreement with the Farmers contemplating a consolidation of the three in accordance with Title 12 U. S. C.
§§ 33 and 34. The agreement called for a valuation of
the assets of the three banks with ensuing recapitalization
and for the Comptroller's approval of the terms of consolidation as required by law. It further provided for
transfer by Penn and Reading of all their assets to
Farmers, with the right to hypothecate and rehypothecate
them, and for assumption by Farmers of the liabilities
of the transferring banks except that to stockholders, they
reserving the right to enforce against their stockholders
any statutory excess liability. Farmers was to operate
'R. S. § 5151; Act of Dec. 23, 1913, c. 6, § 23, 38 Stat. 273, U. S. C.
Tit. 12, §§ 63 and 64.

AI)AMS v. NAGLE.
532

Opinion of the Court.

their banking houses as its branches. On the same day
Penn and Reading turned over their assets to Farmers,
which mingled them with its own and thereafter dealt
with them as its own. There is no assertion that on February 17 the Comptroller knew, or approved, of the agreement and transfer. It is alleged, however, that, by his
direction, a supplemental agreement was made February
20, 1933, by which Penn and Reading guaranteed to
Farmers that the assets of each would exceed in value
its liabilities assumed by Farmers under the agreement
of February 17; and that he acquiesced in the continued
administration of the affairs of Penn and Reading by
Farmers. On February 17 the assets of Penn which were
transferred to Farmers had a reasonable market net value
of $5,400,000 as against total liabilities of $5,100,000, and
the assets of Farmers were of the fair value of $8,000,000
(to which is to be added the stockholders' liability for
assessment in the amount of $1,000,000), as against liability to creditors of $9,000,000.2 The claims of the two
banks against Farmers were, at the date of transfer, and
still are, more than sufficient, in the ordinary course of
liquidation, to pay all of their liabilities without the
necessity of an assessment of the stockholders.
Farmers continued to do business with the combined
and commingled assets from February 17 to March 18,
1933. Then the Comptroller appointed a conservator
who took possession of -ll of the assets. October 10,
1933, the Comptroller, without notice to Penn or Reading,
their depositors, creditors, or stockholders, and without a
hearing, ruled that the agreements of February 17 and
February 20 were without legal effect and directed that
the transfer and delivery of the assets, and the assumption of liabilities thereunder, should be disregarded; and
' The bill in No. 124 alleges that on the same day Reading's assets
exceeded in value its liabilities of approximately $9,000,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

he attempted to allocate among the three banks the assets
theretofore transferred and delivered to Farmers. He appointed the same person he had previously named conservator for Farmers to be conservator of the other two
banks. October 20, 1933, the Comptroller proposed a
so-called plan of reorganization of the three banks which
provided for the organization of a new national bank,
the issue by it of stock and-securities, the pledge of some
of its assets to secure a loan from Reconstruction Finance
Corporation, a sale of the assets in the possession of the
conservator of Farmers to the new national bank, and
a division of the proceeds on the basis of thirty-five
per cent. to Farmers, twenty-five per cent. to Penn, and
twenty-five per cent. to Reading. It is charged that this
division was arbitrary and was based on a classification
adopted from the report of national bank examiners dated
April 24, 1933, and not on the financial condition of the
banks as of February 17, 1933, the date of the execution
of the agreement, transfer of assets, and assumption of
liabilities. The conservator of all three banks, in furtherance of the plan, reconstructed the assets and liabilities
of each as of April 24, 1933, made a division thereof
amongst the banks, consummated the sale to the new
bank, and apportioned the proceeds according to the plan.
In so doing, in conformity with the Comptroller's ruling,
he disregarded all rights and obligations arising from the
agreement of February 17, 1933, and disregarded the
claim of Penn, in the amount of $5,100,000, and the claim
of Reading, in the amount of $9,000,000, against Farmers.
The bills charge that this conduct was arbitrary, and that
the Comptroller's ruling respecting the two agreements
was beyond the powers conferred upon him by the National Bank Act or other statutory law, was an unlawful
assumption of judicial powers not delegated to him by
statute, or capable of being so delegated, was in violation
of the rights of Penn and Reading, their depositors, other

ADAMS v. NAGLE.
532

Opinion of the Court.

creditors, and stockholders, and deprived them of ttieir
property without due process of law.
After consummation of the plan of reorganization the
Comptroller certified that each of the three banks was
insolvent and, in October and November 1934, appointed
a receiver for each of them. January 15, 1935, he certified
that, upon a proper accounting by the receivers of Penn
and Reading, and a valuation of the uncollected assets
remaining in their hands, it appeared that a 100% assessment was necessary to pay their debts and he accordingly
ordered such an assessment. The bills characterize his
conduct as a failure, neglect, and refusal to collect the
claims of Penn and Reading against Farmers and a consequent failure to comply with the conditions and provisions of the statute authorizing assessments of stockholders, and as "in fraud of the rights" of Penn and Reading, their creditors and stockholders. His ignoring the
claims is charged to have been "a grave error of law based
upon his unwarranted assumption of judicial power in
abrogating, cancelling, and waiving" the claims of Penn
and Reading against Farmers, and "adjudicating the private rights and obligations of parties not subject to his
power and control," which invalidated the assessments.
The receiver interposed motions to dismiss which were
sustained by the District Court. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed,' holding the bills set forth a cause of
action since, if their allegations were true, the. Comptroller had exceeded his statutory power and acted arbitrarily in ordering the assessments. The importance of
the question involved and asserted conflict of decision
moved us to grant certiorari.
The petitioner's position is that the agreement and
transfer of assets to the Farmers did not effect a statutory consolidation; that the Comptroller was, there-88 F. (2d) 936.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

103 U. S.

fore, at liberty to treat all three banks as separate entities for the purpose of assessing stockholders' liability
and that stockholders may not, by a proceeding in equity,
challenge his official findings as to insolvency and necessity for an assessment. The respondents say the Comptroller's power of assessment is conditioned on a basic
or quasi-jurisdictional fact,-that the ordinary resources
of a bank have been exhausted,-and, if they have not
been, or are deficient only because of the Comptroller's
unlawful abrogation of and refusal to require collection
of a valid claim sufficient to pay the bank's debts, the
assessment is subject to direct attack as in excess of that
officer's statutory power, as arbitrary, capricious, and a
denial of due process of law. We are of opinion that
the assessments were not subject to attack or frustration
in these proceedings upon the grounds set forth in the
bills.
1. The agreements of February 17 and February 20
did not effect a consolidation in conformity with the
National Banking Act so as to constitute the existing
stockholders of Penn and Reading, together with the
stockholders of Farmers, stockholders of a consolidated
bank. The steps requisite to such consolidation were
never taken.'
2. When the Comptroller took charge of the banks in
question he was bound to deal with them, so far as their
assets and liabilities were concerned and in respect of
stockholders' liability, upon the basis that they were
three separate associations. This conclusion is unaffected by the legality and effectiveness of the agreement of February 17, 1933, upon which respondents insist.' At mosf the agreement substituted a new asset'See U. S. C. Tit. 12, § 33.
'Compare City National Bank v. Fuller, 52 F. (2d) 870; Wannamaker v. Edisto National Bank, 62 F. (2d) 696, 699; B. V. Emery &
Co. v. Wilkinson, 72 F. (2d) 10, 12.

ADAMS v. NAGLE.
532

Opinion of the Court.

the promise of Farmers-for the old assets. Respondents
do not claim that the contract and the transfer pursuant
to it worked a novation whereby the creditors of the
transferring banks became creditors of the transferee.
So far as the Comptroller was concerned these creditors
were still those of the former and entitled to look to
their assets for payment.
3. Whether the Comptroller took the view that the
contracts and what was done under them were effective
to commute the physical assets of Penn and Reading
into a chose in action against Farmers, or that the transaction did not so operate but left Penn and Reading owners of their assets so far as they could be identified and
segregated, it was not, as respondents suggest, a condition
precedent to the validity of his assessment that he should
have exhausted the assets of Penn and Reading.
At the argument the position was taken that the Comptroller was without power to lay an assessment until he
had gotten in the avails of all the ordinary assets
of the banks and that the claims of Penn and Reading
against Farmers under the contract of February 17 were
such ordinary assets. The conclusion is that until the
receiver of Penn and Reading had recovered upon the
contract and distributed the proceeds the Comptroller was
without power to order an assessment. No decision of
any court was cited to support this position, but it was
sought to maintain it by reference to an amendment of
the National Bank Act of June 3, 1864,' offered and
adopted in the Senate. The purpose of this amendment
was stated to be to "enable the receiver at any time whenever it becomes necessary, to enforce the individual liability; and in case it is not necessary, if the'other assets
are sufficient, he will not enforce this contingent liability, which is intended as an ultimate security of the
. c. 106, 13 Stat. 99.

OCTOBER TERTM, 1937.
,Opinion of the ('urt.

303 U. S.

creditors of the bank." We think the adoption of the
amendment in the light of the explanation is far from
sustaining the respondents' contention. It has always
been recognized that if the assets of a closed national
bank are sufficient to answer its liabilities the Comptroller
is not to levy an assessment, but to him is confided the
determination of the sufficiency of the assets and, if he
concludes they are insufficient, it is not only his right but
his duty immediately to invoke the contingent liability
of the stockholders. This has been the invariable administrative practice and any other would tend to depreciate
the availability and the value of stockholders' liability.
4. The question remains whether, if the Comptroller's
action arose from mistake of fact or law, the remedy
here invoked is appropriate. In establishing the national
banking system Congress has invested the Comptroller,
an administrative officer, with jurisdiction to appoint a
receiver after investigation and a finding that a bank
has become insolvent, and to order an assessment up to
one hundred per cent. of the par value of the stock
against the shareholders to pay creditors' claims if, upon

an investigation, he finds that the assets are insufficient
to pay the debts. Plainly these are questions for the
exercise of administrative discretion. The necessity for
vesting this power in an administrative officer springs
from the desirability of prompt liquidation. It would be
intolerable if the Comptroller's decision could be attacked
collaterally in every suit by a receiver against the shareholders to collect the amount of the assessment. It is
settled this cannot be done.' It would be equally intolerable if stockholders as a class could call upon a court
to review the Comptroller's ekercise of his discretion.
For a court to entertain a suit for this purpose would be
'Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498, 505; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673,
681; Bushnell v. Leland, 164 U. S. 684.

ADAMS v. NAGLE.
532

Opinion of the Court.

to render nugatory the functions Congress has confided in
the Comptroller. It has often been decided this may
not be done.8
The respondents, however, urge, and the bill charges,
that the Comptroller, in ruling that the contract of February 17 should be disregarded, and the receiver, in following this ruling, exceeded their statutory powers and acted
arbitrarily and may be enjoined from enforcing an assessment based on the ruling. The contention rests upon a
statement in United States v. Knox, 102 U. S. 425:
"Although assessments made by the comptroller, under
the circumstances of the first assessment in this case, and
all other assessments, successive or otherwise, not exceeding the par value of all the stock of the bank, are conclusive upon the stockholders, yet if he were to attempt
to enforce one made, clearly and palpably, contrary to
the views we have expressed, it cannot be doubted that
a court of equity, if its aid were invoked, would promptly
restrain him by injunction." This was said in a case where
a creditor sought a mandamus to compel the Comptroller
to order an assessment, he having refused so to do on
the ground that the very terms of the statute forbade
such action. Relying on this expression a number of the
federal courts have said that, while an assessment may
not be collaterally attacked, it may be avoided by direct
attack for "clear error of law, fraud, or mistake."
Respondents admit this statement is too broad. Other courts
8Liberty

National Bank v. McIntosh, 16 F. (2d) 906; Wanna-

maker v. Edisto National Bank, supra; Meeker v. Baxter, 83 F. (2d)
183; Davis Trust Co. v. Hardee, 85 F. (2d) 571; Acker v. Hamilton,
85 F. (2d) 574; Barbour v. Thomas, 86 F. (2d) 510; Church v. Hubbard, 91 F. (2d) 406.
'See, e. g., Deweese v. Smith, 106 Fed. 438, 445; B. V. Emery &
Co. v. Wilkinson, 72 F. (2d) 10, 12; Trustees v. Picher, 90 F. (2d)
741, 743; United States Nat. Bank v. Pole, 2 F. Supp. 153, 157;
Angeny v. Keuper, 16 F. Supp. 542, 543.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

have said that the only ground of successful attack is
fraud on the part of the Comptroller."° This case presents
no such basis for relief. The bills do not charge bad faith
or fraud on the part of the Comptroller. The averment
that his ruling with respect to the contract of February
17 hnd the consequent action of the receiver were "in
fraud" of the rights of Penn and Reading and their stockholders falls far short of any charge of actual fraud. Indeed no suggestion of such fraud was advanced by respondents either in brief or in argument.
The respondents rely upon decisions holding that a bill
in equity or a writ of mandamus will lie to compel an
executive officer to comply with the plain mandate of a
statute. These have no application for they deal with a
situation wholly foreign to that here presented. Where
a statute vests no discretion in an executive officer but to
act under a given set of circumstances, or forbids his acting
except upon certain named conditions, a court will compel
him to act or to refrain from acting if he essays wholly
to disregard the statutory mandate; but if a discretion is
vested in him, and he is to act in the light of the facts
he ascertains and the judgment he forms, a court cannot
restrain him from acting on the ground that he has exceeded his jurisdiction by reason of an error either of fact
or law which induced his conclusion. Plainly, therefore,
the respondents are wrong in asserting that as the facts
set forth in their bill charge the Comptroller with an error
of law, he exceeded his authority.
The respondents further insist that their allegation that
the Comptroller's action was "arbitrary," which is amplified and given content by the facts alleged and admitted by the motion to dismiss, requires a decree avoiding
the assessment. The epithet "arbitrary," used in this
1"O'Conner v.

Watson, 81 F. (2d) 833, 836; Meeker v. Baxter, 83

F. (2d) 183, 186; Davis Trust Co. v. Hardee, 85 F. (2d) 571, 573;
Dunn v. O'Connwr, 89 F. (2d) 820, 827.

ADAMS v. NAGLE.
532

Opinion of the Court.

connection, can mean no more than do the other averments that the Comptroller, in reaching his conclusion,
"committed grave error of law" in failing to regard the
contract of February 17 as effective. It would be arbitrary, in the proper sense of the term, for an official to
act in the teeth of a statute or stubbornly to refuse to act
at all where a statute commands action, but where he
essays to exercise the jurisdiction conferred upon him,
though his errors may be subject to subsequent correction, they cannot be enjoined as an arbitrary exercise of
his authority. To hold otherwise would render orderly
administrative procedure impossible.
A reference to the situation with which the Comptroller
was confronted when his receiver took charge of the banks
will serve to demonstrate that a case was presented calling
for the exercise of his discretion. The bill asserts that
over a substantial period subsequent to the transfer of
Penn's and Reading's assets to Farmers these were intermingled with Farmers' assets. It avers that an attempted
segregation of assets, was made upon the basis of a report
of bank examiners dated April 24, 1933, more than two
months after the transfer; it alleges that, at the date of
transfer, Farmers owed $9,000,000 against which it had
assets of $8,000,000 and a possible recovery by way of
stockholders' liability of an additional million dollars; it
fails to state what the condition of Farmers was when
a conservator was appointed for it; what its condition
was when a receiver was appointed for it; what its financial status is today. The pleader contents himself with
the statement of a conclusion that the "claims" of Penn
and Reading against Farmers were, at the time of transfer
of their assets, and still are, sufficient in amount to pay
all of those banks' creditors. But if the allegation is
true, the only conclusion to be drawn from it is that in
ordering the assessment the Comptroller erroneously estimated the value of the banks' assets. Whatever may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

thought of the legality of the transfer of assets pursuant
to directors' action on the eve of insolvency, the creditors
of Penn and Reading were not bound to look to Farmers
and might prefer to look to the assets transferred or to
so much of them as could be traced. And there well may
have been reason for the Comptroller to doubt the legal
efficacy of the transfer in the face of creditors' attack.
These and other matters were to be considered by him in
arriving at an informed judgment as to the availability and
value of the assets of Penn and Reading to answer the
claims of their creditors. As an exercise of the discretionary power vested in him, the Comptroller's action must be
treated as final and conclusive as to the necessity for an
assessment.
5. If the Comptroller's decision with respect to the contract of February 17 was erroneous as matter of law the
stockholders may or may not have a remedy. But their
remedy is not to attack, or seek to evade payment of, the
assessment. The collection of the assessment cannot be
made to await the outcome of litigation of that question.
Moreover, if, as they assert, the Comptroller's judgment
is wrong and the assets of Penn and Reading, consisting
of their claims under the contract, are sufficient to pay
their creditors, the amounts paid pursuant to the assessments will be returned to stockholders in final liquidation.
Meantime, however, the creditors, the protection of whose
interests is the primary object of the statute, will have
been paid and, as is right, reimbursement of the stockholders will await possible realization upqn assets which
the Comptroller believes insufficient to satisfy the
creditors.
The decrees are reversed and the causes remanded with
instructions to dismiss the bills.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

