UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
323

Counisel for Parties.

visions as to allegations, proof, and findings do not apply.
I would affirm the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH

No..445.

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 11, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

Under § 307 of the World War Veterans Act, as amended July 3,
1930, a claim for total permanent disability on a reinstated and
converted War Risk policy can not be contested upon the bare
ground that the total and permanent disability existed before
the insurance was reinstated. P. 342.
Section 307 provides that policies of insurance "issued, reinstated, or converted shall be incontestable from the date of issuance, reinstatement, or conversion, except for fraud, nonpayment of premiums, or on the ground that the applicant was not
a member of the military or naval forces of the United States."
The converted policy sued on promised to pay in the event of
total, permanent disability, upon due proof of such disability
"while this policy is in force." Unlike original policies issued
under the War Risk Act, it contained no clause expressly excluding liability for total, permanent disability incurred before the
policy was applied for.
90 F. 2d 715, affirmed.
. CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 676, to review the affirmance of

a judgment recovered against the Government on a Veteran's policy of insurance.

Mr. Wilbur C. Pickett, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Solicitor General Bell, and Messrs, Julius
C. Martin and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. Warren E.

Miller, with whom Mr. Stephen A.

Cross was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered

303 U. S.

the opinion of the

Court.
January 31, 1918, Stanley J. Patryas (respondent), then
a soldier, purchased from the government a $10,000 yearly
renewable War Risk Insurance contract which he permitted to lapse after his honorable discharge from the
Army, July 29, 1919. June 28, 1927, while a patient at
a Veterans' Government Hospital, he obtained reinstatement of his War Risk policy and immediately converted
it into a five year renewable term policy upon which he
paid premiums to June 1932. Claiming total permanent
disability, the veteran obtained, in the District Court, a
verdict and judgment on his reinstated policy. Finding
the issues for the veteran, the jury fixed the date of permanent total disability at 1924-a date three years before
his policy was reinstated.
The Court of Appeals affirmed.'
The government's right to contest this policy is limited
by the following statutory provision:
"... policies of insurance . . . issued, reinstated, or

converted shall be incontestable from the date of issuance,
reinstatement, or conversion, except for fraud, nonpayment of premiums, or on the ground that the applicant
was not a member of the military or naval forces of the
United States, . .."

The question here is:
Can the government, in the absence of fraud or bad
faith, "contest" and defeat payment of total permanent
disability insurance, sold to a World War veteran, on the
ground that the veteran was totally and permanently
disabled before the policy was reinstated and converted?
First. The government contends that "Congress has
190

F. (2d) 715.

2 Sec.

307, World War Veterans Act, 1924, as amended July 3,

1930, c. 849, § 24, 46 Stat. 1001.

UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
341

Opinion of the Court.

not, . . . authorized . . . insurance benefits for total,
permanent disability existing prior to any contract of
insurance on which the claim is made."
The original War Risk Insurance Act of October 6,
1917,1 provided:
"That in order to give every commissioned officer and
enlisted man and to every member of the Army Nurse
Corps (female) and of the Navy Nurse Corps (female)
when employed in active service under the War Department or Navy Department greater protection for themselves and their dependents . . . , the United States,
upon application to the bureau and without medical
examination, shall grant insurance against the death or
total permanent disability of any such person . . ."
The War Risk Insurance Act must be considered in
the light of its passage during the war, while men and
women were being called into war service. This requires
recognition of its generous and liberal purpose to provide " greater protection for (soldiers, sailors and nurses)
. . . and their dependents. ' 4 Its passage indicated Congress conclusively presumed that every person, who had
successfully undergone mental and physical examination
for war service, was--when inducted into such serviceinsurable against death and total permanent disability.5
The Act commanded that insurance against death and
total permanent disability be granted, without medical
examination, to every applicant who had previously been
examined and accepted for war service. Congress manifestly intended by these sweeping provisions that policies
should be granted without regard to the health of applicants and should be enforceable obligations against the
government. Any other construction of this broad, war
8Sec. 400, War Risk Insurance Act of Oct. 6, 1917, c. 105, 40
Stat. 409.
4 See, United States v. Arzner, 287 U. S. 470, 472.
5See, United States v. Domangue, 79 F. (2d) 647, 648.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

time legislative grant to soldiers, sailors and nurses would
take away the benefits Congress intended them to receive.
The 'provisions of the War Risk Insurance Act are sufficiently comprehensive and inclusive to authorize its administrators to grant insurance covering past or future
total permanent disability, if such action is found necessary to carry out its far reaching national plan and purposes.
Second. It is contended that the government can contest liability on the ground that the veteran was totally
and permanently disabled prior to the reinstatement,
despite the provision that such policy "shall be incontestable . . . except for fraud, nonpayment of premiums,
or on the ground that the applicant was not a member of
the military or naval forces of the United States, . . ."
It is urged that this provision "has no application where,
as here, the validity of the policy is not questioned and
liability under it is denied solely on the ground that a
loss has not occurred during the period of insurance protection." However, it is admitted that this policy did not
"expressly exclude total permanent disability occurring
prior to insurance protection, as did the language of the
original term contract."
This converted policy of insurance provided protection
against loss from two causes: namely, death and total
permanent disability. A provision making a policy "incontestable" except for certain clearly designated reasons,
is wholly meaningless and ineffective if, after proof of the
loss insured against, the policy can be contested upon
grounds wholly different from those set out in the exception. The object of the provision is to assure the insured
that payment on his policy will not be delayed by contests and lawsuits on grounds not saved by the exceptions.' Here, it has been established that the veteran is
"Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 254 U. S. 96,
101, 102.

UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
341

Opinion of the Court.

totally and permanently disabled. Yet his policy is contested on the ground that it does not insure against this
disability because it existed before the policy was issued.
If this defense can be interposed, his policy has never actually protected him against total permanent disability.
Since permanent total disability is one of the two risks insured against in the policy, any contest (not based on
the exceptions) whichmay prevent the policyholder's recovery for such admitted total permanent disabilityexisting while the policy is in force-is a "contest" forbidden by the "incontestable" provision.
No legal obstacle prevents parties, if they so desire,
from entering into contracts of insurance to protect
against loss that may possibly have already occurred.
Marine insurance and ante-dated fire insurance policies
frequently afford protection against risks which, unknown
to the parties, have already attached.7
Even with the benefit of scrupulous good faith, it is not
always easy to determine with complete certainty
whether or not total permanent disability exists. This
uncertainty may lead an insurer, after his own investigation, and for adequate compensation, to treat unknown
past and uncertain prospective disability, upon the same
basis. This case is an illustration. Here, the government has never admitted that the veteran is totally and
permanently disabled. It not only issued him a policy
against such disability-with complete knowledge of his
then condition-but in this continued contest has denied
that the policyholder was totally and permanently disGeneral Interest Ins. Co. v. Ruggles, 12 Wheat. 408; see, Hooper
v. Robinson, 98 U. S. 528, 537; Pendergast v. Globe & R. Fire
Ins. Co., 246 N. Y. 396; 159 N. E. 183; Hallock v. Commercial
Ins. Co., 26 N. J. L. (2 Dutch.) 268; see, Springfield Fire & M. Ins.
Co. v. National Fire Ins. Co., 51 F. (2d) 714, 718-719. A valid
aleatory contract may be based on an unknown past event. 3
Williston, On Contracts, (Rev. ed.), § 888.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

abled at any time-before, when, or after the policy was
issued. There was also a sharp conflict of evidence on
this disputed fact.
When a policy of disability insurance is issued after
complete examination by the insurer and full and fair
disclosure by both parties, there is no legal reason why
the insurer cannot contract to afford full protection
against loss resulting from past as well as prospective disability. This veteran's policy did not expressly limit
liability to prospective total permanent disability. The
provisions of the policy in this regard contain a promise
to pay the veteran "in . . . event of the total permanent
disability . . . (and) Upon due proof of the total permanent disability of the Insured while this policy is in force,
."
Original policies issued under the War Risk Act
expressly excluded liability for total permanent disability
incurred before the policy "was applied for." The deliberate omission, in the converted policies, of this previous
exclusion, the language and purport of the original Act
and its amendments, the administrative interpretations
and legislative history, all throw a flood of light on the
intention to include liability for disabilities existing prior
to the issuance of the policies.
For more than a decade prior to 1934, (during which
period this veteran's policy was purchased), the Bureau,
unvaryingly observing the statutory mandate, announced
and applied the practice that "insurance was incontestable except for the grounds specifically enumerated" in
the incontestable provision. A "subsequent rating of permanent total disability effective as of a date prior to the
date of reinstatement," under this consistent administrative interpretation and practice, did "not affect the validity of such reinstatement." Because of court decisions
and rulings by the Comptroller General tending to nullify
and defeat this administrative practice 8 the Veterans'
'9 Compt. Gen. 291; Jordan v. United States, 36 F. (2d) 43;
Golden v. United States, 34 F. (2d) 367.

UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
341

.Opinion of the Court.

Administration urged the amendment of July 3, 1930, to
confirm its practice and to strengthen and clarify the incontestable provision. For this purpose, the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs testified before the Senate Committee as to the necessity for this amendment:'
"This is a very sweeping amendment and will place beyond contest many contracts and policies of insurance
which otherwise would be contestable. It is a well recog.nized principle of commercial insurance companies, however, and in reality is only a clarification of the existing
law which was practically nullified by a recent decision
of the Comptroller General."
The Solicitor of Veterans' Affairs also testified:
"... the present World War Veterans Act of 1924, as
amended, contains a provision to the effect that where
a policy is maintained in force for a period of six months,
it should be incontestable, except for fraud or nonpayment of premiums. We have followed that, and in all
cases where the policy has remained in force for six
months we have paid the claim, irrespective of the merits
of it, unless there was fraud or failure to pay premiums. . . . However, under date of January 16, 1930,
notwithstanding the long practice of the bureau, the
Comptroller General, in the case of Mabry W. Woodall,
held that if a man was permanently and totally disabled
at the time he applied for a reinstatement of insurance, or
conversion of insurance, . . . the policy was not incontestable, the statute did not protect it . . ."
In the Woodall case referred to, the Comptroller General had held:
".... if the insured was in fact dead or permanently and
totally disabled, at the date of application, reinstatement
or conversion,...
the insurance was subject to subsequent contest.
9 H. R. 10381, 71st Cong., 2d Sess., Hearings Senate Committee on
Finance, pages 90-91.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

"Accordingly, the rule may be stated that where the
Veterans' Bureau has heretofore established or may hereafter establish the condition of permanent total disability at or prior to date of original application for insurance, or applicationfor reinstatement and/or conversion of insurance,... the insurance should be considered
as invalid..." •
The Senate Report on this amendment "o stated:
"The purpose is to make all contracts or policies of insurance incontestable from date of issuance, reinstatement, or conversion, for all reasons except fraud, nonpayment of premiums, or that the applicant was not a
member of the military or naval forces of the United
States. This incontestabilitywould protect contracts...
where the applicant was not in the required state of
health, or was permanently and totally disabled prior to
the date of application, . . . It is appreciated that this
is a broad provision, but it was felt that it was necessary
in order to do justice to the veterans, . . . and to overcome decisions of the Comptroller General which practically nullified the section as it now exists."
The conclusion is inescapable that Congress enacted the
1930 amendment in order to overcome the effect of the
above rulings of the courts and the Comptroller General,
and with the intention to sustain the Bureau's previous
administrative interpretation and practice under the
incontestable provision.
To resist payment of this veteran's insurance policy
on the ground that he was totally and permanently disabled prior to the issue of the policy, is to "contest" payment within the generally accepted meaning of the word
and violates the "incontestable" provision. The purchaser of a policy contract containing a provision that
1

Senate Report No. 1128, p. 10, 71st Cong., 2d Sess., on H. R.

13174.

UNITED STATES v. PATRYAS.
341

Opinion of the Court.

the insurer waives its right to contest except for fraud,
nonpayment of premiums, and lack of military or naval
service, is entitled to rely on the plain terms and inducements of the provision which limits the grounds for contest of liability to those specifically reserved."' The incontestable provision here means that a claim of a veteran whose death or total permanent disability is established shall not be contested except for fraud, nonpayment of premiums or on the ground that the insured
had not really been a member of the war forces of the
nation or because he was included in Title 38, U. S. C.,
§ 447.1" Congress evidently believed these exceptions
afforded the government ample protection against impositions or unjust claims and intended to limit the right
to contest these policies to the specific grounds reserved
in the exceptions. The judgment of the Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the considerktion or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO
1 See,

Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, supra, at

102.
. 12 38 U. S. C., § 518, and § 447. This reference
to § 447 excluded
from the benefits of this incontestable provision any person who had
been discharged or dismissed from the service on the ground that
he was "guilty of mutiny, treason, spying, or any offense involving
moral turpitude, or willful and persistent misconduct, of which he
was found guilty by a court-martial, or that he was an alien, conscientious objector who refused to perform military duty or refused to
wear the uniform, or a deserter, . .."

