LABOR BD. v. GREYHOUND LINES.
250

Syllabus.

In that event a cumulative tax burden would be imposed
on interstate communication such as might ensue if gross
receipts from interstate transportation could be taxed.
This was the vice of the tax of a percentage of the gross
receipts from goods sold by a wholesaler in interstate commerce, held invalid in Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,
supra. In form and in substance the tax was thought
not to be one for the privilege of doing a local business
separable from interstate commerce. Cf. American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, supra. In none of these respects is the present tax objectionable.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. PENNSYLVANIA GREYHOUND LINES, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 413.

Argued February 4, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. Upon a finding that an employer has created and fostered a
labor organization of employees and dominated its administration
in violation of § 8 (1), (2) of the National Labor Relations
Act of July 5, 1935, the National Labor Relations Board has authority, under § 10 (c) of the Act, in addition to ordering the
employer to cease these practices, to require him to withdraw all
recognition of the organization as the representative of his employees and to post notices informing them of such withdrawal.
Pp. 263, 268.
2. Whether continued recognition -by the employer of the employees'
association would in itself be a continuing obstacle to the exercise
of the employees' right of self-organization and to bargain col-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

lectively through representatives of their own choosing, is an
inference of fact to be drawn by the Board from the evidence
reviewed in its subsidiary findings, and when supported by evidence the Board's finding of the fact is conclusive. P. 270.
3. The Board's findings in this case that the employer had engaged
in unfair labor practices, and that withdrawal of recognition of
the employee association by the employer, accompanied by suitable publicity, would appropriately give effect to the policy of
the Act, were amply supported by the evidence. P. 271.
4. To enable the Board to determine whether the employer had
violated the statute or to make an appropriate order against him,
the presence of the employees' association *was not essential and
it was not entitled to notice and hearing., P. 271.
5. An order of the Board such as that requiring the employer to
withdraw recognition of the employees' association, and to post
notice of such action, lawful when made, does not become moot
because it is obeyed or because changing circumstances may
lessen the need for it. P. 271.
91 F. 2d 178, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 676, to review a judgment deny-

ing in part a petition of the National Labor Relations
Board for enforcement of an order.

Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, and Messrs. Robert L.
Stern, Robert B.

Watts, and Laurence A. Knapp were

on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ivan Bowen, with whom Messrs. Charles H. Young
and M. H. Boutelle were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The main question for decision is whether, upon a finding that an employer has created and fostered a labor organization of employees and dominated its administration
in violation of §-8 (1), (2) of the National Labor Relations Act of July 5, 1935 (c. 372, 49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C.,
§ 151, et seq.), the National Labor Relations Board, in addition to ordering the employer to cease these practices,

LABOR BD. v. GREYHOUND LINES.
261

263

Opinion of the Court.

can require him to withdraw all recognition of the organization as the representative of his employees and to
post notices informing them of such withdrawal.
Respondent Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, Inc., is a
corporation operating a passenger motor bus system between the Atlantic Coast and Chicago and St. Louis. Respondent Greyhound Management Company, an affiliate
of the Pennsylvania Company, performs various services
relating to employee personnel of the latter and its affiliated corporations. Together, respondents act as employers of those employees working at the Pittsburgh
Garage of the Pennsylvania Company and together actively deal with labor relations of those employees.
Upon charges filed by Local Division No. 1063, Amalgamated Association of Street, Electric Railway and Motor Coach Employees of America, a labor organization,
the Board issued its complaint, as permitted by § 10 (b)
of the Act, charging that respondents had engaged in
specified unfair labor practices affecting interstate commerce, in violation of § 8. After notice to respondents,
and hearing, the Board found that they had engaged
in unfair labor practices by interfering with, restraining,
and coercing employees in the exercise of their rights,
guaranteed by § 7, in that they had dominated and interfered with the formation and administration of a labor
organization of their employees, Employees Association
of the Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, Inc., and had contributed financial and other support to it in violation of
§ 8 (1), (2).
The Board ordered that respondents cease each of the
specified unfair labor practices. It further ordered that
they withdraw recognition from the Employees Association as employee representative authorized to deal with
respondents concerning grievances, terms of employment,
and labor disputes, and that they post conspicuous notices
in all the places of business where such employees are en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

gaged, stating that the "Association is so disestablished
and that respondents will refrain from any such recognition thereof." 1 N. L. R. B. 1.
Upon the Board's petition under § 10 (e) to enforce
the order, heard April 1, 1936, the Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit gave judgment after a delay of one
year and two months, during which there were three postponements and two rearguments. It struck from the order all provisions requiring the withdrawal by respondents
of recognition of the Employees Association and publication of notice of withdrawal, and directed that in other
respects the Board's order be enforced. 91 F. (2d) 178.
The court thought that the Board was without authority
to order the employers to withhold recognition from the
Association, without notice to it and opportunity for a
hearing, and without an election by the employees to
choose a labor organization to represent -them. We
granted certiorari, 302 U. S. 676, the questions involved
being of importance in the administration of the National Labor Relations Act.
Respondents do not assail the Board's findings of fact
as without support in the evidence, and the principal
questions for decision are of law, whether in the circumstances disclosed by the findings the Board acted within
the authority conferred upon it by §§ 7, 8 and, 10 of the
Act. Section 7 provides:
"Employees shall have the right to self-organization,
to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain
collectively through representatives of their own choosing,
and to engage in concerted activities, for the purpose of
collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection."
Section 8 declares:
"It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer"(1) To interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in
the exercise of the rights guaranteed in section 7.

LABOR BD. v. GREYHOUND LINES.
261

Opinion of the Court.

"(2) To dominate or interfere with the formation or
administration of any labor organization or contribute
financial or other support to it: . . ."
By § 10 (b) the Board is given authority to hear complaints of unfair labor practices upon evidence; and § 10
(c) 1 directs that when the Board finds that any person
has engaged in unfair labor practices it "shall issue and
cause to be served on such person an order requiring such
person to cease and desist from such unfair labor practice, and to take such affirmative action . . . as will effectuate the policies of this Act. . .. "
Notwithstanding the mandatory form of § 10 (c), its
provisions in substance leave to the Board some scope
for the exercise of judgment and discretion in determining, upon the basis of the findings, whether the case is
one requiring an affirmative order, and in choosing the
particular affirmative relief to be ordered. Hence, upon
the challenge of the affirmative part of an order of the
Board, we look to the Act itself, read in the light of its
history, to ascertain its policy, and to the facts which
the Board has found, to see whether they afford a basis
for its judgment that the action ordered is an appropriate
means of carrying out that policy.
The history of the Act and its language show that its
ruling purpose was to protect interstate, commerce by
I "See. 10 (c). The testimony taken by such member, agent or
agency or the Board shall be reduced to writing and filed with the
Board. Thereafter, in its discretion, the Board upon notice may
take further testimony or hear argument. If upon all the testimony
taken the Board shall be of the opinion that any person named in
the complaint has engaged in or is engaging in any such unfair
labor practice, then the Board shall state its findings of fact and
shall issue and cause to be served on such person an order requiring
such person to cease and desist from such unfair labor practice, and
to take such affirmative action, including reinctatement of employees
with or without back pay, as will effectuate the policies of this
Act. .... "

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

securing to employees the rights established by § 7 to
organize, to bargain collectively through representatives
of their own choosing, and to engage in concerted activities for that and other purposes. National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S.
1, 23, 33. This appears both from the formal declaration
of policy in § 1 of the Act, National Labor Relations
Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., supra, 22-24, and
from § 7, in itself a declaration of the policy which, in
conjunction with § 10 (c), it adopts as the controlling
guide to administrative action.
Before enactment of the National Labor Relations Act
this Court had recognized that the maintenance of a
"company union," dominated by the employer, may be a
ready and effective means of obstructing self-organization
of employees and their choice of their own representatives
for the purpose of collective bargaining. Section 2 (3)
of the Railway Labor Act of 1926, had provided that representatives, for the purposes of the Act, should be designated by employer and employees "without interference,
influence, or coercion exercised by either party over the
self-organization or designation of representatives by the
other." We had held that in enforcing this provision,
employer recognition of a company union might be enjoined and the union "disestablished," as an appropriate
means of preventing interference with the rights secured
to employees by the statute. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v.
Brotherhood of, Railway & S. S. Clerks, 281 U. S. 548,
560; see also Virginian Ry. Co. v. System FederationNo.
40, 300 U. S. 515, 542 et seq.
Congress, in enacting the National Labor Relations Act,
had in mind the experience in the administration of the
Railway Labor Act, and declared that the former was
"an amplification and further clarification of the principles" of the latter. Report of the House Committee on

LABOR BD. v. GREYHOUND LINES.
Opinion of the Court.

261

Labor, H. R. 1147, 74th Cong., 1st Scss., p. 3. It had
before it the Railway Clerks case which had emphasized
the importance of union recognition in securing collective
bargaining, Report of the Senate Committee on Education and Labor, S. Rep. 573, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 17,
and there were then available data showing that once an
employer has conferred recognition on a particular organization it has a marked advantage over any other in
securing the adherence of employees, and hence in preventing the recognition of any other? The National
Labor Relations Act continued and amplified the policy
of the Railway Labor Act by its declaration in § 7, and
by providing generally in § 8 that any interferences in the
exercise of the rights guaranteed by § 7 and specifically
the domination or interference with the formation or
administration of any labor organization were unfair
labor practices. To secure to employees the benefits of
self-organization and collective bargaining through representatives of the employees' own choosing, the Board
was authorized by § 10 (c) to order the abandonment
of unfair labor practices and to take affirmative action
which would carry out the policy of the Act.
In recommending the adoption of this latter provision
the Senate Committee called attention to the decree
which, in the Railway Clerks case, had compelled the employer to "disestablish its company union as representative of its employees." Report of the Senate Committee
On the significance of recognition in collective bargaining see
Commons and Andrews, Principles of Labor Legislation (Harper &
Bros., 4th ed., 1936), p. 372; Catlin, The Labor Problem (Harper &
Bros., 1935), pp. 431, 522; Rufener, Principles of Economics (Houghton-Mifflin Co., 1927), p. 399; Twentieth Century Fund, Inc., Labor
and the Government (1935), p. 47; Yoder, Labor Economics and
Labor Problems (1933), p. 443; U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau
of Labor Statistics, Characteritics of Company Unions, Bulletin No.
634, Chs. VII, XXII.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

on Education and Labor, supra. The report of the House
Committee on Labor on this feature of the Act, after
pointing out that collective bargaining is "a sham when
the employer sits on both sides of the table by supporting
a particular organization with which he deals," declared:
"The orders will of course be adapted to the need of the
individual case; they may include such matters as refraining from collective bargaining with a minority
group, recognition of the agency chosen by the majority
for the purposes of collective bargaining, posting of appropriate bulletins, refraining from bargaining with an
organization corrupted by unfair labor practices." Report of the House Committee on Labor, supra, pp.
18, 24.
It is plain that the challenged provisions of the present
order are of a kind contemplated by Congress in the enactment of § 10 (c) and are within its terms. There remains the question whether the findings adequately support them.
The Board's subsidiary findings of fact fully sustain its
conclusion that respondents had engaged in unfair labor
practices, by active participation in the organization and
administration of the Employees Association, which they
dominated throughout its history, and to whose financial
support they had contributed; and that they had interfered with, restrained and coerced their employees in the
exercise of the rights confirmed by § 7 to form for themselves a labor organization and to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing.
It is unnecessary to repeat in full detail the facts disclosed by the findings. They show that before the enactment of the National Labor Relations Act, respondents,
whose employees were unorganized, initiated a project
for their organization under company domination. In
the course of its execution, officers or other representatives of respondent were active in promoting the plan, in

LABOR BD. v. GREYHOUND LINES.
261

Opinion of the Court.

urging employees to join, in the preparation of the details
of organization, including the by-laws, in presiding over
organization meetings, and in selecting employee representatives of the organization.
The by-laws and regulations provided that all motorbus
operators, maintenance men and clerical employees, after
three months service, automatically became members of
the AF sociation, and that only employees were eligible to
act as employee representatives. No provisions were made
for meetings of members, nor was a procedure established
whereby employees might instruct their representatives,
or whereby those representatives might disseminate information or reports. Grievances were to be taken up
with regional committees with final review by a Joint
Reviewing Committee made up of an equal number of
regional chairmen and of management representatives,
but review in those cases could not be secured unless there
was a joint submission of the controversy by employee
and management representatives.
Change of the by-laws without employer consent was
precluded by a provision that amendment should be only
on a two-thirds vote of the Joint Reviewing Committee,
composed of equal numbers of employer and employee
representatives. Employees paid no dues, all the Association expenses being borne by the management.
Although the Association was in terms created as a bargaining agency for the purpose of "providing adequate
representation" for respondents' employees by "securing
for them satisfactory adjustment of all controversial matters," it has functioned only to settle individual grievances. On the one recorded occasion when the employees
sought a wage increase, the company representatives prevented its consideration by refusing to join in the submission to the Joint Reviewing Committee.
In May, 1935, shortly before the passage of the Act,
certain of respondents' Pittsburgh employees organized
a local union, Local Division No. 1063 of the Amalga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

mated Association of Street, Electric Railway and Motor
Coach Employees of America, affiliated with the American Federation of Labor, and continued to hold metings
of the organization after the passage of the Act on July
5, 1935. Before and after that date, respondents' officers
were active in warning employees against joining the
union and in threatening them with discharge if they
should join, and in keeping the union meetings under
surveillance.
Section 10 (e) declares that the Board's findings of
fact "if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive."
Whether the continued recognition of the Employees
Association by respondents would in itself be a continuing
obstacle to the exercise of the employees' right of selforganization and to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing, is an inference of fact
to be drawn by the Board from the evidence reviewed in
its subsidiary findings. See Swayne & Hoyt v. United
States, 300 U. S.297.
We may assume that there are situations in which the
Board would not be warranted in concluding that there
was any occasion for withdrawal of employer recognition
of an existing union before an election by employees under
§ 9 (c), even though it had ordered the employer to cease
unfair labor practices. But here respondents, by unfair
labor practices, have succeeded in establishing a company
union so organized that it is incapable of functioning as a
bargaining representative of employees. With no procedure for meetings of members or for instructing employee representatives, and with no power to bring grievances before the Joint Reviewing' Committee without
employer consent, the Association could not without
amendment of its by-laws be used as a means of the collective bargaining contemplated by § 7; and amendment
could not be had without the employer's approval.

LABOR BD. v. GREYHOUND LINES.
261

Opinion of the Court.

In view of all the circumstances the Board could have
thought that continued recognition of the Association
would serve as a means of thwarting the policy of collective bargaining by enabling the employer to induce
adherence of employees to the Association in the mistaken
belief that it was truly representative and afforded an
agency for collective bargaining, and thus to prevent
self-organization. The inferences to be drawn were for
the Board and not the courts. Swayne & Hoyt v. United
States, supra. There was ample basis for its conclusion
that withdrawal of recognition of the Association by
respondents, accompanied by suitable publicity, was an
appropriate way to give effect to the policy of the Act.
As the order did not run against the Association it is
not entitled to notice and hearing. Its presence was not
necessary in order to enable the Board to determine
whether respondents had violated the statute or to make
an appropriate order against them. See General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261,
285-286.
Respondents suggest that the case has become moot by
reason of the fact that since the Board made its order it
has certified the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen as
representative of the motorbus drivers of the Pennsylvania company for purposes of collective bargaining and
that in a pending proceeding under § 9 (c) for the certification of a representative of the other Pittsburgh employees, to which the Employees' Association is not a
party, the Pennsylvania company and Local Division No.
1063, who are parties, have made no objection to the
proposed certification. But an order of the character
made by the Board, lawful when made, does not become
moot because it is obeyed or because changing circumstances indicate that the need for it may be less than
when made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

272

Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

We have considered but find it unnecessary to comment upon other objections to the order, of less
moment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
PACIFIC GREYHOUND LINES, INC.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
NINTH

No. 504.

OF

APPEALS FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 4, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. National Labor Relations Board v. Penns9ylvania Greyhound
Lines, ante, p. 261, followed.
2. The evidence and subsidiary findings in this case support the
conclusion of the National Labor Relations Board that continued recognition of a company union by an employer would
be a continuing obstacle to the exercise of the employees' right
of self-organization and of collectively bargaining through representatives of their own choosing, and justified its order requiring
the employer to withdraw all recognition of such union and give
appropriate notice of the withdrawal to employees. P. 275.
91 F. 2d 458, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 679, to review a judgment setting
aside, in part, an order of the National Labor Relations

Board, upon a petition for its enforcemen .
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, and Messrs. Robert L.
Stern, Robert B. Watts, and Laurence A. Knapp were on

the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ivan Bowen, with whom Mr. M. H. Boutelle was

on the brief, for respondent.

