N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.

161

Argument for Petitioner.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. GAMER,
EXECUTRIX.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 323. Argued January 13, 1938.-Decided February 14, 1938.
A life insurance company stipulated to pay double indemnity (twice
the face of the policy) upon receipt of due proof that death of the
insured resulted, directly and independently of all other causes,
from bodily injury effected solely through external, violent and
accidental means, but that double indemnity should not be payable if the death resulted from self-destruction. The insured died
of a rifle shot. In an action on the policy in which only the right
to the additional payment was in controversy, the issue raised
by the pleadings was whether the death was accidental, the company claiming suicide. Held:
1. That the burden was upon the plaintiff to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the death was accidental. P. 171.
2. The presumption that the death was due to accident rather
than suicide lost its application to the case when evidence was
introduced sufficient to sustain a finding that death was not due
to accident. Id.
3. This presumption requiring the inference of accident rather
than suicide in a case of violent death is a rule of law; it is not
evidence and may not be given the weight of evidence. Id.
Travellers' Insurance Co. v. McConkey, 127 U. S. 661, distinguished.
90 F. (2d) 817, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 670, to review the affirmance of

a judgment recovered by the present respondent in an
action on a life insurance policy. See also 76 F. (2d) 543.
Mr. J. A. Poore, with whom Messrs. M. S. Gunn and
Charles R. Leonard were on the brief, for petitioner.
The physical facts show suicide. It is unnecessary to
show motive. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Trimble, 69 F.
(2d) 849, 851; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Tooley, 16 F. (2d)
243, 244; Burkett v. New York Life Ins. Co., 56 F. (2d)
53383-38-

11

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Petitioner.

303 U. S.

105, 107, 108'; but in the record there is evidence of
motive.
Surmise or conjecture of accident will not sustain the
judgment. Pennsylvania Ry. Co. v. Chamberlain, 288
U. S. 333; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Anderson, 66 F.
(2d) 705, 709; Frankel v. New York Life Ins. Co., 51 F.
(2d) 933, 935; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Tooley, 16 F. (2d)
243, 245; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Alman, 22 F. (2d)
98, 101; Burkett v. New York Life Ins. Co., 56 F. (2d)
105, 108; Stevens v. White City, 285 U. S. 195.
The District Court should have sustained the motion
for a directed verdict for the defendant.
The complaint alleges that the death of the insured
"resulted directly and independently of all other causes
from bodily injury effected solely through external, violent and accidental means and . . . that the death of
said insured did not result from self-destruction (but)'
resulted directly from the accidental discharge of a firearm, to-wit: a rifle. .. ."
The answer denies that the death of insured resulted
from the accidental discharge of a rifle, and alleges that
the-death of the insured resulted from self-destruction.
This is not a suit for death, but for death by accident.
The defendant at all times offered to pay the death
claim, and tendered the money in exchange for a full
release, which was refused.
The burden is upon the plaintiff to prove her cause of
action, "death by accident," which proof would negative
death by intention. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v.
Blum, 270 Fed. 946; Travelers' Ins. Co. v. Wilkes, 76 F.
(2d) 701; (International Life Ins. Co. v. Carroll, 17 F.
(2d) 42, 43, distinguished); Jefferson. Standard Life Ins.
Co. v. Clemmer, 79 F. (2d) 724; Federal Life Ins. tCo. v.
Zebec, 82 F. (2d) 961, 963; New Amsterdam Casualty
Co. v. Breschini, 64 F. (2d) 887, 890; Fidelity & Casualty
Co. v. Driver, 79 F. (2d) 713, 714.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.
161

Argument for Petitioner.

It seems clear that if the plaintiff must show death
by accident, it must negative death by intentional means,
such as suicide; and if the defendant must prove death
by suicide, it must likewise negative death by accident.
Travelers' Insurance Co. v. McConkey, 127 U. S. 661,
distinguished.
The cause of death being unexplained, a presumption
arises in accordance with human experience that it was
not caused by suicide, and this presumption temporarily
aided the plaintiff on whom was the burden of persuasion. This required the defendant to go forward with
its evidence, or the issue of suicide would go against it,
but did not place the burden on defendant of proving
suicide, or change the burden of proof resting on the
plaintiff. Mobile v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35.
The proper construction and interpretation to be placed
upon the McConkey case has given rise to much contrariety of opinion. See Jefferson Standard Life Ins. Co.
v. Clemmer, 79 F. (2d) 724, 731.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in sustaining the
instructions to the jury that the presumption of law is
that the death was not voluntary; that this presumption has the weight and effect of evidence, and is binding on the jury and they must find according to the presumption until it is overcome by evidence, and that the
burden of overcoming such presumption is on the defendant. Mobile v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35; Western
& A. R. Co. v. Henderson, 279 U. S. 639; Heiner v.
Donnan, 285 U. S. 312; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v:
Ford, 287 U. S. 502; Del Vecchio v. Bowers, 296 U. S.
280. [Citing many cases in the Circuit Courts of Appeals, including Ariasi v. Orient Insurance Co., 50 F.
(2d) 548, from the Ninth Circuit.] Also: Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on Evidence, pages 314, 336, 337, 339;
5 Wigmore on Evidence, 2d ed., §§ 2487-2498, and chap.
88; Jones' Commentaries on Evidence, 2d ed. 1926,
§§ 30, 256.

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Respondent.

303 U. S.

Mr. William Meyer, with whom Mr. Francis P. Kelly
was on the brief, for respondent.
It is our contention that Upon the trial plaintiff was
required to prove that Gamer died on the morning of
April 10th and that he died as a result of external and
violent means. This proof was then aided by the presumption of law that his'death was accidental, which, in
the absence of contradictory proof, was sufficient to
take the case to the jury. The evidence in this case
was sufficient to take the case to the jury, if indeed it
did not justify a directed verdict for plaintiff. Gunning
v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90; Small Company v.Lamborn, 267
U. S. 248; Murray Co. v. Harrill, 51 F. (2d) 8'83, 884;
Pythian Knights v. Beck, 181 U. S. 49. See also, Missouri State Life Ins. Co. v. West, 67 F. (2d) 468; Fidelity & Casualty Co. v. Pittinger, 63 F. (2d) 880; Home
Benefit Assn. v. Sargent, 142 U. S. 691; Gamer v. New
York Life Ins. Co., 76 F. (2d) 543.
It is generally held that the defense that death resulted from causes which by the terms of the policy
relieve the insurer from liability, is an affirmative defense, to be alleged by insurer in its answer. Sullivan
v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 96 Mont. 254, 266; 29 P.
(2d) 1064; Kingsland v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 97
Mont. 558, 569; 37 P. (2d) 335; Vicars v. Aetna Life Ins.
Co., 158 Ky. 1; 164 S. W. 106; Dent v. National Life &
Accident Ins. Co., 6 S. W. (2d) 195; American Central
Life Ins. Co. v. Alexander, 39 S. W. (2d) 86.
It is for the jury to decide whether death was accidental, as neither suicide nor murder will be presumed
from the killing of an individual. McClur v. New York
Life Ins. Co., 50 F. (2d) 972; Metropolitan Life Ins.
Co. v. Broyer, 20 F. (2d) 818, 820; Wells Fargo Co. v.
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 66 F. (2d) 890, 893; Connecticut
Life Ins. Co. v. Maher, 70 F. (2d) 441.
The decision upon the first appeal is now the law of
the case.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.
161

Opinion of the Court.

Travelers' Insurance Co. v. McConkey, 127 U. S. 661,
has not been disapproved by this Court.
[Counsel invited attention to certain statutes of Montana defining presumption, and to Montana decisions;
State v. District Court, 72 Mont. 213; 232 Pac. 201, 203
(3); Arnold v. Genzberger, 31 P. (2d) 296, 305; Renland
v. First National Bank, 90 Mont. 424; 4 P. (2d) 488;
McMahon v. Cooney, 95 Mont. 138; 25 P. (2d) 131;
Nichols v. New York Life Ins. Co., 88 Mont. 132, 292
Pac. 253; Maki v. Murray Hospital, 91 Mont. 251; 7 P.
(2d) 228, 232; State v. Nielson, 57 Mont. 137; 187 Pac.
639; Union Bank & Trust Co. v. State Bank, 103 Mont.
260; 62 P. (2d) 677, 684; also to many California cases.]
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

April 10, 1933, the deceased died by gunshot. Petitioner had insured his life by a policy in which it agreed
to pay his executors ten thousand dollars upon proof of
death without regard to its cause, or twenty thousand
dollars in case of death resulting from accident as defined by a provision the pertinent parts of which follow.
"The Double Indemnity . . . shall be payable upon receipt of due proof that the death of the Insured resulted
directly and independently of all other causes from bodily
injury effected solely through external, violent and accidental means . . . Double Indemnity shall not be payable if the Insured's death resulted from self-destruction,
whether sane or insane."
Respondent sued petitioner in a state court for twenty
thousand dollars. There being diversity of citizenship,
defendant removed the case to the federal court for the
district of Montana. The complaint alleges that the
death of the insured resulted directly and independently
of all other causes from bodily injury effected solely
through external, violent and accidental means and did
not result from self-destruction but directly from the accidental discharge of a rifle.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Defendant's answer concedes that plaintiff is entitled
to the face of the policy, and alleges a deposit of that
amount with interest in court. It denies that death resulted from bodily injury effected through accidental
means; and specifically denies that it resulted from the
accidental discharge of a rifle or other fire-arm. And
"as an affirmative defense," it alleges that the death of
the insured resulted from self-destruction by intentionally
discharging a loaded rifle into his body with intent to
take his life.
The case came on for trial and, at the close of the
evidence; the judge on motion of defendant directed the
jury to return a verdict in its favor. Plaintiff appealed;
the circuit court of appeals held that the question whether
the death was accidental should have been submitted to
the jury, and reversed the judgment. 76 F. (2d) 543.
At the second trial plaintiff went forward; at the close of
all the evidence defendant requested the court to direct
a verdict in its favor, insisting that plaintiff had failed
to prove accidental death and that the evidence showed
death was caused by self-destruction, and was not sufficient to sustain a verdict for the plaintiff. The court
denied the motion and submitted the case to the jury.
Its charge contained the following:
"In this case the defendant alleges that the death of
E. Walter Gamer was caused by, suicide. The burden of
proving this allegation by a preponderance, or greater
weight of the evidence is upon the defendant. The presumption of law is that the death was not voluntary and
the defendant . . . must overcome this presumption and
satisfy the jury by a preponderance of the evidence that
his death was voluntary.
"Ordinarily . . . in the absence of a plea by the defendant of suicide or self-destruction the burden would be
upon, and it still is upon the plaintiff in this case to prove
that Walter Garner died from external, violent and acci-

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.
161

Opinion of the Court.

dental means, but by its answer . . . the . . . Company
has admitted that . . . [he] died .through external and
violent means. . . The question remains as to whether
the death was accidentally caused, or the means of .the
death was accidental or whether it was suicide. But when
the defendant took the position that it takes here it
assumed the burden of proving to you by a preponderance
of the evidence that Walter Garner killed himself
voluntarily ...
"The presumption of law is that the death was not
voluntary and the defendant in order to sustain the issue
of suicide . . . must overcome this presumption and satisfy the jury, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
his death was voluntary . . ."
The jury gave plaintiff a verdict for twenty thousand
dollars with interest, and the court entered judgment in
her favor for that amount. Defendant appealed, alleging
that the trial judge erred in denying its motion for a directed verdict and in giving each of the quoted instructiols. The circuit court of appeals affirmed. 90 F. (2d)
817. This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
There are presented for decision, questions whether
the trial court erred in refusing to direct a verdict for
defendant or in giving any of the instructions quoted
above.
The circuit court of appeals has twice held the evidence
sufficient to sustain a verdict for plaintiff. It found that
the facts brought forward at the second trial are not substantially different from those presented on the first appeal. There is no substantial controversy as tp the principal evidentiary circumstances upon which depends decision of the controlling issue, whether the death of the
insured was accidental. As we are of opinion that the
trial court erred in giving the challenged instructions, and
the judgment is to be reversed and the case remanded to
the district court where another trial may be had, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

refrain from discussion of the evidence. We find it sufficient to sustain a verdict for or against either party. Defendant was not entitled to a mandatory instruction.
The form and substance of the challenged instructions
suggest that the trial judge followed those brought before this Court in Travellers' Ins. Co. v. McConkey, 127
U. S. 661. The opinion of the circuit court of appeals
reads that case to require approval of the instructions
here in question. As it has not been uniformly interpreted, we shall -examine its principal features. There
the accident policy sued on covered bodily injuries effected
through external, violent and accidental means when such
injuries alone occasioned death or disability. A proviso
declared that no claim should be made under the policy
when the death or injury had been caused by suicide, or
by intentional injuries inflicted by the insured or by any
other person. The complaint alleged that the insured
had been accidently shot by a. person or persons unknown
to plaintiff, by reason of which he instantly died. The
answer denied that death was occasioned by bodily injuries effected through external, violent and accidental
means, and alleged that it was caused by suicide, or by
intentional injuries inflicted either by* the insured or by
some other person.
The statement 'of the case quotes the following
instructions (pp. 663-664):
"The plaintiff . . . gives evidence of the fact that the
insured was found dead . . . from a pistol shot through
the heart. This evidence satisfies the terms of the policy
with respect to the fact that the assured came to his death
by 'external and violent means,' and the only question is
whether the means by which he came to his death were
also 'accidental.'
"It is manifest that self-destruction cannot be presumed. . . The plaintiff, is therefore entitled to recover
unless the defendant has by competent evidence overcome

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.
161

Opinion of the Court.

this presumption and satisfied the jury by a preponderance
of evidence that the injuries which caused the death of
the insured were intentional on his part.
"Neither is murder to be presumed . . .; but if the
jury find . . . that the insured was in fact murdered, the
death was an accident as to him . . . If . . . theinjuries
of'the insured . . . were not intentional on his' part the
plaintiff has a right to recover. . . . The inquiry . . .
is resolved into a question of suicide, because if the insured
was murdered the destruction of his life was not intentional on his part.
"The defendant, in its answer, alleges that the death
of the insured was caused by suicide. The burden of
proving this allegation by a preponderance of evidence
rests on the defendant."
This Court held that the trial judge erred in charging
that if the insured was murdered plaintiff was entitled
to recover and on that ground reversed the judgment and
remanded the case with directions to grant a new trial.
It was not necessary to consider any other question.
But, for guidance of the trial ordered, the Court discussed
other parts of the charge.
At the outset the opinion declares that under the issue
presented by the general denial it was incumbent on
plaintiff to show that the death was the result not only
of external and violent, but also of accidental means. It
states that the two "principal facts to be established were
external violence and accidental means, producing death.
The first was established when it appeared that death
ensued from a pistol shot through the heart of the
insured. The evidence on that point was direct and
positive; . . . Were the means by which the insured
came to his death also accidental? If he committed suicide, then the law was for the company, because the policy
• . . did not extend to . . . self-destruction . . ."
The opinion proceeds (p. 667): "Did the court err in
saying to the jury that, upon the issue as to suicide, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

law was for the plaintiff, unless that presumption was
overcome by competent evidence? This question must
be answered in the negative. The condition that direct
and positive proof must be made of death having been
caused by external, violent, and accidental means, did
not deprive the plaintiff, when making such proof, of the
benefit of the rules of law established for the guidance
of courts and juries in the investigation and determination
of facts."
The statement just quoted, lacking somewhat of the
precision generally found in opinions of the Court prepared by its eminent author, has been variously construed.
The question it propounds does not fully reflect the substance of the charge which put on the defendant the burden of proving suicide by preponderance of the evidence.
However; the opinion shows that the burden was on plaintiff to prove death by accident as defined in the contract.
It contains nothing to suggest that the court deemed the
issue as to burden of proof arising on general denial to be
affected by defendant's allegation of suicide. It held that
if the insured committed suicide, plaintiff had no claim;
that, from the fact of death by violence, accident would
be presumed, and that unless the presumption was overcome by evidence the law was for plaintiff. The opinion
does not indicate the quantum of proof required to put an
end to the presumption. It is consistent with, if indeed
it does not support, the rule that the presumption is not
evidence and ceases upon the introduction of substantial
proof to the contrary. Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on
Evidence, p. 346. Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 43. Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Henderson, 279 U. S. 639, 642, 644. Heiner v. Donnan, 285
U. S. 312, 329. Atlantic Coast Line v. Ford,287 U. S. 502,
506. Del Vecchio v. Bowers, 296 U. S. 280, 286. Nichols
v. New York Life Ins. Co., 88 Mont. 132, 139 et seq.; 292
P. 253. The opinion did not definitely sustain any of

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.
161

Opinion of the Court.

the charges to which it referred. It falls far short of
sustaining the instructions challenged in the present
case.
Under the contract in the case now before us, double
indemnity is payable only on proof of death by accident
as there defined. The burden was on plaintiff to allege
and by a preponderance of the evidence to prove that
fact. The complaint alleged accident and negatived selfdestruction. The answer denied accident and alleged
suicide. Plaintiff's negation of self-destruction taken
with defendant's allegation of suicide served to narrow
the possible field of controversy. Only the issue of accidental death vel non remained. The question of fact
to be tried was precisely the same as if plaintiff merely
alleged accidental death and defendant interposed denial
without more. 'Travelers' Ins. Co. v. Wilkes, 76 F. (2d)
701, 705. Fidelity & Casualty Co. v. Driver, 79 F. (2d)
713, 714. Cf. Home Benefit Assn. v. Sargent, 142 U. S.
691.
Upon the fact of violent death without more, the presumption, i. e., the applicable rule of law, required the
inference of death by accident rather than by suicide. As
the case stood on the pleadings, the law required judgment for plaintiff. Travellers' Ins. Co. v. McConkey,
supra, 665. It was not submitted on pleadings but on
pleadings and proof. In his charge the judge had to
apply the law to the case as it then was. The evidence
being sufficient to sustain a finding that the death was not
due to accident, there was no foundation of fact for the
application of the presumption; and the case stood for
decision by the jury upon the evidence unaffected by the
rule that from the fact of violent death, there being
nothing to show the contrary, accidental death will be
presumed. The presumption is not evidence and may not
be given weight as evidence. Despiau v. United States
Casualty Co., 89 F. .(2d) 43, 44. Jefferson Standard Life

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

Ins. Co. v. Clemmer, 79 F. (2d) 724, 730. Travelers'
Ins. Co. v. Wilkes, supra, 705. Fidelity & Casualty Co. v.
Driver, supra, 714. Frankel v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
51 F. (2d) 933, 935. Ocean Accident & Guarantee Corp.
v. Schachner, 70 F. (2d) 28, 31. But see: New York Life
Ins. Co. v. Ross, 30 F. (2d) 80. Tschudi v. Metropolitan
Life Ins. Co., 72 F. (2d) 306, 308, 310. Nichols v. New
York Life Ins. Co., supra.
In determining whether by the greater weight of evidence it has been established that the death of the insured"
was accidental, the jury is required to consider all admitted
and proved facts and circumstances upon which the determination of that issue depends and, in reaching its
decision, should take into account the probabilities found
from the evidence to attend the claims of the respective
parties.
The challenged instructions cannot be sustained.
Judgment reversed.
MNR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in t'.e consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

The judgment below rests upon an insurance policy
contract made in Butte, Montana. Plaintiff filed suit
for more than $3,000 in a Montana state court, and the
insurance company-because it was not a Montana corporation-was able to remove the suit to the Federal
District Court. Plaintiff's judgment in the District Court
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals This Court now
reverses plaintiff's judgment because the District Court
instructed the jury that-evidence having established the
death of the insured by violent and external means-the
law presumed from these facts that the death "was not
voluntary and . . . the defendant must overcome this

presumption and satisfy the jury by a preponderance of

N. Y.. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.
161

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

the evidence, that his death was voluntary. . . ." The
policy of insurance was a Montana contract and even
though the coipany was able to remove plaintiff's case to
a Federal court, I believe the plaintiff's rights should be
determined by Montana law. Under Montana law I
believe the above instructions were proper.
The Supreme Court of Montana has said: 1
"Where, as here, death is shown as the result of external
and violent means and the issue is whether it was due
to accident or suicide, the presumption is in favor of
accident."
The majority agree with the Montana law up to this
point, saying:
"Upon the fact of violent death without nore, the
presumption, i. e., the applicable rule of law, required the
inference of death by accident rather than by .. icide."
At this point, agreement ends between the rule here declared by the majority and the law of Montana..
Under Montana law the presumption that violent death
was accidental and not suicidal continues and does not
disappear unless the evidence "all points to suicide . . .
with such certainty as to preclude any other reasonable
hypothesis"; and the presumption continues for the jury's
consideration except "...
when the evidence points overwhelmingly to suicide as the cause of death."' 2
'Nichols v. New York Life Ins. Co., 88 Mont. 132, 140; 292 P.
253, 255.
'Nichols v. New York Life Ins. Co., supra, at 141. In a case
involving an action on an insurance policy, in which the McConkey
case, supra, was followed, the Supreme Court of Montana said:
"The testimony as to the incidents connected with the death of the
insured is slight, but. is sufficient to establish the death of insured by
external and violent means....
"... if plaintiff bad 'shown by the fair weight of the evidence
that the assured came to his death as the result of a pistol shot . .. ,
then the law will presume that the shot was accidental, and that
it was not inflicted with murderous or suicidal intent. And under

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

Contrary to this clear statement by the Montana Supreme Court is the different rule clearly announced by the
majority here in holding that the presumption disappears
after the insurance company introduced evidence merely
"sufficient to sustain a finding that the death was not due
to accident."
This Court does not find that the evidence in this case
excludes every other reasonable hypothesis but suicide or
that all of the evidence points "unerringly to suicide as
the cause of death." ' On the contrary the majority
opinion states:
"We find it [the evidence] sufficient to sustain a verdict for or against either party. Defendant was not entitled to a mandatory instruction."
It is obvious that the majority here declare a rule based
neither on Montana law nor federal statute. This federal judicial rule must none the less be followed in suits
on insurance policies tried in federal courts.

The result

such circumstances the burden will be upon the defendant to overcome
this presumption, and to show that the death was not caused by
accidental means.'
"It is apparent, therefore, that under the great weight of authority
plaintiff's evidence made a prima facie case. As said by this court
in numerous decisions, when a prima facie case is made by plaintiff,
the defendant must rebut the case so made, or fail in the action."
Withers v. Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co., 58 Mont. 485, 491, 492, 493,
494; 193 P. 566, 568.
"Testimony constituting a mere contradiction of the facts established presumptively by the prima facie case does not necessarily
suffice to overthrow the same. . . . the prima facie case must not

only be contradicted but overcome as well. When such case is made,
contradictory testimony merely amounts to a conflict in the evidence,
with the ultimate facts to be determined by the court or jury, as
the case may be." State v. Nielsen, 57 Mont. 137, 143; 187 P. 639,
640. Cf. Johnson v. Chicago, 31. & St. P. Ry. Co., 52 Mont. 73;
155 P. 971. See, Renland v. First National Bank, 90 Mont. 424, 437;
4 P. 2d 488.

Cf. Nichols v. New York Life Ins. Co., supra, at 144.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. GAMER.
161

1-BLACK, J., dissenting.

is that suits on policies for less than $3,000 tried in state
courts will frequently be decided by rules different from
the rule which governs similar suits tried in federal courts
because they involve more than $3,000. In an orderly
and consistent system of jurisprudence, it is important
that the same law should fix and control the right of recovery on substantially identical contracts made in the
same jurisdiction and under the same circumstances.
Neither the company nor the policyholder should obtain an advantage by the application of a, different law
governing the contract merely. because the case can be
removed to a federal court.
It was to avoid such results--among other reasons-that § 725, U. S. C., Title 28, was passed. It provides:
"The laws of the several States, except where the-Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the courts of the United
States, in cases where they apply."
In this case, the law determining the burden of proof
as to suicide affects the substantial rights of the parties.'
Substantial rights arising from an insurance. contract are
governed by the law of the state where the contract is
made.' Since the court below instructed the jury in accordance with the law of Montana, I do not believe the
-charge constituted reversible error.
Nor can I agree that we should approve a general rule
governing trials in federal courts which in my judgment
transfers jury functions to judges. The effect of the decision here is to give the trial judge the right to decide
when sufficient evidence has been introduced to take from
the jury the right to find accidental death from proof of
Cf. Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 511, 512;
New Orleans & N. E. R. Co. v. Hdrris, 247 U. S. 367, 371, 372.
'Pritchard v. Norton, 106 U. S. 124, 130; Northwestern Mutual
Life Ins. Co. v. McCue, 223 U. S. 234, 246, 247,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

303 U. S.

death by violent and external means. This inevitably
follows if the presumption, or right of the jury to infer
death by accident, "disappears" whenever the judge believes sufficient evidence of suicide has been introduced.
Stripped of discussions of legal formulas designated as
"presumptions" and "burden of proof," the net result of
the rule of "disappearing presilmptions" is that trial
judges in federal courts (irrespective of state rules) have
the power to determine when sufficient "substantial evidence" has been produced to justify taking from the jury
the right to render a verdict on evidence which-had the
judge not found it overcome by contradictory evidencewould have justified a verdict. The judge exercises this
power as a "trier of fact" although evidence, previously
introduced and sufficient to support a verdict, has neither
been excluded nor withdrawn.
Proof of death by external and violent means has uniformly been held to establish death by accident. The
extreme improbability of suicide is complete justification
for a finding of death from accident under these circumstances. While it has been said that this proof of accidental death was based on "presumption," in realitywhatever words or formulas are used-what is meant is
that a litigant has offered adequate evidence to establish
accidental death. To attribute this adequacy of proof to
a "presumption" does not authorize or empower the judge
to say that this "adequate proof" (identical with legal
"presumption") has "disappeared." If the evidence offered by plaintiff provides adequate proof of accidental
death upon which a jury's verdict can be sustained, mere
contradictoryevidence cannot overcome the original "adequate proof" unless the authority having the constitutional power to weigh the evidence and decide the facts
believes the contradictory evidence has overcome the original proof. The jury-not the judge-should decide when
there has been "substantial" evidence which overcomes

S. C. HWY. DEPT. v. BARNWELL BROS.
161

177

Syllabus.

the previous adequate proof. Here, this Court holds that
at the conclusion of plaintiff's evidence the jury had adequate proof upon which to find accidental death, and
which would authorize a verdict that insured died as a
result of accident, but also holds that, after subsequent
contradictory evidence of defendant, the judge (not the
jury) could decide that plaintiff's adequate proof (presumption) had "disappeared" or had been overcome by
this subsequent contradictory testimony. This took from
the jury the right to decide the weight and effect of this
subsequent contradictory evidence. Such a rule gives
parties a trial by judge, but does not preserve, in its
entirety, that trial by jury guaranteed by the Seventh
Amendment to the Constitution. I cannot agree to a
conclusion which, I believe, takes away any part of the
constitutional right to have a jury pass upon the weight
of all of the facts introduced in evidence.
I believe the judgment of the court below should be
affirmed.
SOUTH CAROLINA STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT ET AL. V. BARNWELL BROTHERS, INC.,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 161. Argued January 4, 1938.-Decided February 14, 1938.
1. In the absence of national legislation covering the subject in its
relation to interstate commerce, a State, in order to conserve its
highways and promote safety thereon, may adopt regulations limiting the weight and width of the vehicles that use
them, applicable without discrimination to those moving in interstate commerce and to those moving only within the Stae. P. 184.
2. Such regulations being, in general, within the competency of the
State, judicial inquiry into their validity, under the commerce
clause as well as under the Fourteenth Amendment, is limited to
°

53383 .

:I8-12

