MOOKINI v. INITED STATES.
197

Syllabus.

ment, the same injury and the same negligence.

Proper

pleading is important, but its importance consists in its
effectiveness as a means to accomplish the end of a just
judgment. The effect of the amendment here was to facili-

tate a fair trial of the existing issues between plaintiff
and defendant. The New Jersey statute of limitations
did not bar the amended cause of action. The court below was in error.

Since the judgment of the Court of

Appeals was based only on a consideration and improper
application of the statute of limitations, the cause is reversed and remanded to the Court of Appeals for further
proceedings in harmony with these views.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of &s case.

MOOKINI ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No.

319.

Argued February 2, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. The Act of March 8, 1934, (28 U. S. C. 723a) empowering this
Court to prescribe rules of practice with respect to proceedings
after determination of guilt in criminal cases in "District Courts
,
of the United States, including the District Courts of
Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Canal Zone and Virgin Islands," and in
the other courts named, does not require that rules when prescribed shall be identical for all the courts mentioned or that
rules for all :hall be prescribed at the same time. P. 203.
2. In the rules heretofore promulgated by this Court (May 7, 1934,
292 U. S. 661) limited to proceedings in criminal cases in "District Courts of the United States" and in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia and subsequent appellate proccedingg,
the term "District Courts of the United States" meons constitutional courts created under Art. III of the Constitution; it
does not embrace legislative courts such as the District Court
for the Territory of Hawaii. P. 205.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of lhe Court.

303 U. S.

3. As the Criminal Appeals Rules were not made applicable to
the District Court of the Territory of Hawaii, they did not
change the time for appeals from that court to the Circuit
Court of Appeals as allowed by the Act of February 13, 1925.
"28 U. S. C. 225, 2:30. P. 205.
4. The provision in the organic Act of Hawaii (48 U. S. C. 645)
that appeals from the District Court of that Territory to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit shall be had
"in the same manner as appeals are allowed from district courts
to circuit courts of appeal as provided by law," does not require
that the Criminal Appeals Rules prescribed by this Court for
District Courts of the United States shall be held applicable
to the District Court of Hawaii. P. 205.
92 F. (2d) 126, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 674, to review a judgment dismissing an appeal.

Mr. 0. P. Soares submitted on brief for petitioners.
Mr. Bates Booth, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs. William W. Barron and
TV. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioners were convicted in the District Court of the
Territory of Hawaii of violating ยง 35 of the Criminal
Code relating to fraudulent claims. 18 U..S.C. 80. The
verdict was rendered on May 28, 1935; motions for a new
trial were overruled on June 19, 1935; and petitioners
were sentenced on June 29, 1935. Appeal was allowed by
the District Court on September 27, 1935.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, finding that the appeal
was not taken in the manner or within the time permitted
by the Criminal Appeals Rules promulgated by this
Court on May 7, 1934 (Rule III, 292 U. S. 662, 663), dis-

MOOKINI v. UNITED STATES.
201

Opinion of the Court.

missed the appeal. 92 F. (2d) 126. In view of the iniportance of the question as to the application of the
Criminal Appeals Rules to the District Court of the
Territory of Hawaii, we granted certiorari.
It is not questioned that the appeal to' the Circuit
Court of Appeals was allowed within the three months'
period specified in ยง 8 (c) of the Act of February 13, 1925,
c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 940; 28 U. S. C. 225, 230; 48 U. S. C.
645.
The Criminal Appeals Rules were promulgated pursuant to the Act of March 8, 1934, amending the Act of
February 24, 1933. 28 U. S. C. 723a. The Act authorized this Court-I
"to prescribe, from time to time, rules of practice and
procedure with respect to any and all proceedings after
verdict, or finding of guilt by the court if a jury has been
waived, or plea of guilty, in criminal cases in district
courts of the United States, including the District Courts
of Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Canal Zone, and Virgin
Islands, in the Supreme Courts of the District of Columbia, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico, in the United States Court
for China, in the United States Circuit Courts of Appeals, in the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, and in the Supreme Court of the United States."
In order to aid the Court in exercising its authority
under the statute, the Attorney General of the United
States at the request of the Court subinitted on May 26,
1933, a draft of proposed rules. These were expressly
limited to proceedings in cases brought in the District
Courts of the United States and in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia. The reason for this limitation
was thus stated by the Attorney General:
"The Rules are limited in their application to proceedings in cases instituted in the District Courts of the
United States and in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia. There is not sufficient data at hand upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Court.
Opinion of tile

303 U. S.

which to predicate proposals at this time relative to practice and procedure in cases instituted in the District
Courts of Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Canal Zone, and
Virgin Islands, or in the Supreme Courts of Hawaii and
Puerto Rico, or in the United States Court for China. It
is thought that it would be the part of wisdom to establish the rules for practice and procedure for Continental
United States before attempting to provide for the Territories, Insular Possessions and Consular Courts, as these
situations will undoubtedly require special treatment because of local conditions and the distance separating the
trial court from the Appellate Court."
In considering and revising the draft thus submitted.
we approved this suggestion. The rules were accordingly
limited to proceedings"in criminal cases in District Courts of the United States
and in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
and in all subsequent proceedings in such cases in the
United States Circuit Courts of Appeals, in the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, and in the Supreme
Court of the United States." Order of May 7, 1934,
292 U. S.661.
No provision was made with respect to proceedings in
cases brought in the District Courts of Alaska, Hawaii,
Puerto Rico, Canal Zone and Virgin Islands, in the Supreme Courts of Hawaii and Puerto Rico, or in the United
StatesCourt for China. We entertain no doubt of our
authority to limit the application of the new rules in this
way. The statute empowered the Court to prescribe rules
"from time to time" with respect "to any or all proceedings," after determination of guilt, in criminal cases in the
courts which were severally described. The statute contains no requirement that the Court must prescribe identical rules with respect to all the courts mentioned regardless of varying conditions, or that rules for all these
courts must be prescribed at one and the same time. On

MOOKINI v. UNITED STATES.
201

Opinion of the Court.

the contrary, the manifest intention of the Congress was
to permit the Court to exercise its discretion concerning
the application of the rules.
The term "District Courts of the United States," as
used in the rules, without an addition expressing a wider
connotation, has its historic significance. It describes
the constitutional courts created under Article III of
the Constitution. Courts of the Territories are legislative courts, properly speaking, and are not District Courts
of the United States. We have often held that vesting a
territorial court with jurisdiction similar to that vested
in the District Courts of the United States does not make
it a "District Court of the United States." Reynolds v.
United States, 98 U. S. 145, 154; The City of Panama,
101 U. S.453, 460; In re Mills, 135 U. S.263, 268; McAllister v. United States, 141 U. S. 174, 182, 183; Stephens
v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S.445, 476, 477; Summers v.
United States, 231 U. S. 92, 101, 102; United States v.
Burroughs, 289 U. S.159, 163. Not only did the promulgating order use the term District Courts of the United
States in its historic and proper sense, but the omission
of provision for the application of the rules to the territorial courts and other courts mentioned in the authorizing act clearly shows the limitation that was intended.
As the Criminal Appeals Rules were not made applicable to the District' Court of the Territory of Hawaii,
they did not supersede or alter the provisions of the Act
of February 13, 1925, as to appeals from that court to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 28 U. S. C. 225, 230. The
provision of the Organic Act of Hawaii (48' U. S. C. 645)
to which the court below refers, that appeals from the
District Court of the Territory to the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be taken in the same maimer as appeals
from district courts, was always subject to modification
in the discretion of the Congress which in its future legislation could make or authorize such distinctions in ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

;303 U. S.

pellate procedure as appeared to be wise. The Act authorizing this Court to promulgate rules for criminal appeals, which should have the effect of legislation necessarily modified the former statutory provisions so as to
give the Court full authority to prescribe the time and
manner of taking appeals and to leave the Court free to
determine to what courts, within the range of the authorization, its rules should apply. Pursuant to this authority, the Court has limited its rules so that they do not
govern appeals from the District Court of the Territory
of Hawaii and there is nothing in the earlier legislation
which compels the extension of the rules beyond their
intended and expressed application.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded to that court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

SOUT1IWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO. v.
OKLAHOMA

ET A[,.

APPEAL FROM TIE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 560.

Argued February 7, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

Upon appeal from the State Corporation Commission, the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma affirmed an order fixing the rates of a telephone company, such affirmance being, under the state constitution, a legislative act, and therefore, not reviewable by appeal
1o this Court. The company then filed a petition for rehearing
asking for a judicial review, which petition was denied without
statement 6f reason. Upon appeal to this Court, the company
contended that the denial of the petition was a judicial review,
while the State's Attorney General insisted that the whole procceding was legislative in character and that adequate judicial

