OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

('OVERDALE, SHERIFF AND EX-OFFICIO TAX
COLLECTOR, v. ARKANSAS-LOUISIANA PIPE
LINE CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 458. Argued February 28, 1938.-Decided April 4, 1938.
A corporation produced and purchased natural gas in Louisiana,
piped it from the wells to the Louisiana terminus of its interstate
pipeline, and introduced it into that line under increased pressure
induced by the power of gas engines operating gas compressors.
Nearly all of the gas was transported and disposed of in interstate
commerce, and the increase of pressure was essential to its movement through the pipeline. As a complement to taxation of the
generation and sale of electricity, Louisitina laid a privilege tax on
operation of machines for production of mechanical power used by
the operator in his business within the State, the tax being measured on the horsepower capacity of such machines. Held:
. That, applied to the operation of the corporation's gas
engines, the tax was not invalid as a burden on the interstate
commerce. P. 609.
2. Taxation by the States of the business of interstate commerce
is forbidden only because it is deemed an interference with that
commerce, the uniform regulation of which is necessarily reserved
to the Congress. P. 610.
3. Exemption of those engaged in interstate commerce from the
taxation others bear should not be extended beyond the necessity
of keeping that commerce free from interference. P. 610.
4. Privileges closely connected with interstate commerce may be
regarded as distinct for purposes of taxaion. P. 610.
5. While the engine and compressor units are connected directly,
on a common bed plate, their functions are as completely separate
as if they operated through belting. While the use of the engine
for the production of power synchronizes with the transmission
of that power to the compressor, production occurs prior to transmission. Cf. Utah Power & Liqht Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165.
P. 611.
6. The tax is without discrimination in form or application
as between interstate and intrastate commerce and is not such as
can be imposed by more than one State. It obviously adds to the

COVERDALE v. PIPE LINE CO.
604

Opinion of the Court.

cost of the interstate commerce. But increased cost alone is not
sufficient to invalidate the tax as an interference with that commerce. Cf. Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, ante, p. 250.
P. 612.
20 F. Supp. 676, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the three-judge District Court
which permanently enjoined the sheriff from enforcing a
state tax found to be unconstitutional. See also 17 F.
Supp. 34, 36.
Messrs. E. Leland Richardson and F. A. Blanche, Assistant Attorneys Genera], with whom Messrs. Gaston L.
Porterie, Attorney General, and J. C. Daspit, Assistant
Attorney General, of Louisiana, were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Leon O'Quin, with whom Mr. H. C. Walker, Jr.
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question is whether a state statute imposing a privilege tax on the production of mechanical power contravenes the interstate commerce clause in so far as it
is applied to an engine used to supply mechanical power
to a compressor which increases the pressure of natural
gas and thus permits it to be transported to purchasers
in other states.
Act No. 6 of the Regular Session of 1932 of the Louisiana Legislature, with certain qualifications and exceptions not material here, provides for a license tax to be
paid by everyone engaged within the State in the business
of manufacturing or generating electricity for heat, light
or power, § 1, or of selling electricity not manufactured or
generated by him or it, § 2. Section 3 provides that every
person, firm, corporation, or association, engaged within
the State in any business, which uses in the conduct of

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

that business electrical or mechanical power of more than
ten horsepower and does not procure all the power from
a taxpayer subject to § 1 or § 2, "shall be subject to the
payment of an excise, license, or privilege tax of One
Dollar ($1.00) per annum for each horsepower of capacity
of the machinery or apparatus, known as the 'prime
mover' or 'prine movers,' operated by such person, firm,
corporation or association of persons, for the purpose of
producing power for use in the conduct of such business or
occupation; . ."
Appellee is engaged within Louisiana, Arkansas, and
Texas, in the business of producing and buying, transporting and selling natural gas. The gas is obtained
from the Monroe and Richland fields in Louisiana, and
transported through appellee's 20-inch pipe line, one of
the largest in the Southwest, which extends from Sterlington, Louisiana, to Blanchard, Louisiana, where one
branch goes west into Texas, and the other north into
Texas and Arkansas up to Little Rock. Ninety-six and
6/10 per cent. (96.6%) of the gas transported through
this line during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1933, was
delivered outside the State of Louisiana.
The natural gas cannot be transmitted through this
pipe line for these distances in amounts sufficient to
meet the needs of appellee's customers, unless it is delivered into the pipe line at a pressure higher than that
at which it comes from the wells. Accordingly, appellee maintains in Louisiana, at the point of intake into
the line, its "Munce Compressor Station" where are located ten pumps, or natural gas compressors, which operate to increase the pressure of the gas to the required
extent. These compressors are directly connected to ten
four-cylinder 1,000 horsepower Cooper Bessemer internal
combustion gas burning engines. There are also two
250 horsepower gas burning engines for general power
service at the station. The tax is laid on .the privilege

COVERDALE v. PIPE LINE CO.
604

Opinion of the Court.

of operating these twelve gas engines, known as "prime
movers,"1 and is imposed at the rate of $1 per horsepower capacity of the engine-i. e., a total tax of
$10,500.
Appellee's complaint, setting forth these facts, was filed
in the District Court for Western Louisiana. It prayed
that the tax be declared invalid and that the appellant,
sheriff, be enjoined from selling appellee's property to enforce payment of $7,316, plus certain penalties and attorney fees, as the balance of the "prime mover tax" due
for the year. ending July 31, 1933.2 An ex parte temporary restraining order was issued. A statutory threejudge court was convened, and a preliminary injunction
granted, 17 F. Supp. 34. The statute was held invalid
for the reason, among others, that as applied to this case
it imposed an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. On a rehearing, the court, with one dissent, determined again that it was invalid, with the violation
of the commerce clause as the sole basis of decision, 17
F. Supp. 36.' After answer and submission of affidavits
This term, used in § 3, supra, is not defined elsewhere in the
statute. Webster's New International Dictionary (2d ed. unabridged,
1936) p. 1964, contains the following: "prime mover. Mech. . . .b
An initial source of motive power, as an engine, or machine, the
object of which is to receive and modify force and motion as supplied by some natural source, and apply them to drive other machinery, as a water wheel, a water-pressure engine, a wind-mill, a turbine,
a tidal motor, a steam engine or other heat engine, etc." As explained by expert witnesses for the appellant, the internal combustion
gas engine is a prime mover which converts heat energy, contained
in the natural gas as fuel, into mechanical energy, then supplied
to and used by the compressor unit.
2 Appellee alleged that it had paid part of the tax imposed by the
statute in order to avoid a forced sale.
8 The first opinion also held the statute invalid in its entirety
(on the authority of Union Sulphur Co. v. Reid, 17 F. Supp. 27), as
a property tax laid at a rate prohibited by the state constitution, and
as a denial of due process in providing for collection without any
review of the action of the state supervisor of public accounts. After

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

by both parties, the court granted a permanent injunction, 20 F. Supp. 676. The case was brought here on
direct appeal. Judicial Code, §§ 238 (3), 266, 28 U. S. C.
§§ 345 (3) 380.
First. The character of the tax act under consideration
is clear. It is a revenue measure obtaining funds by levying a privilege tax on those generating or selling electricity in Louisiana. §§ 1 and 2. Presumably to protect this
source of revenue against tax-free competition, § 3,4 with
the decision in State v. H. L. Hunt, Inc., 182 La. 1073; 162 So. 177,
holding the tax a license rather than a property tax, consonant with

both the state constitution and Fourteenth Amendment, the Districl
Court granted a rehearing. The second opinion conceded the general
validity of the act, but held it an undue burden on interstate commerce
as applied to appellee.
4 "Section 3. In addition to all other taxes of every kind imposed
by law, every person, firm, corporation or association of persons
engaged in the State of Louisiana in any business or occupation,
which person, firm, corporation or association of persons uses in the
conduct of such business or occupation, at any time, electrical or
mechanical power of. more than ten horsepower and does not procure
all the power required in the conduct of such business or occupation
from a person, firm, corporation or association of persons subject to
the tax imposed by Section 1 or Section 2 of this act, shall be subject
to the payment of an excise, license or privilege tax of One Dollar
($1.00) per annum for each horsepower of capacity of the machinery
or apparatus, known as the 'prime mover' or 'prime movers',
operated by such person, firm, corporation or association of persons,
for the purpose of producing power for use in the conduct of such
business or occupation; provided that any user of power securing
all or any part of the power required in the conduct of the business
or occupation of such user from a person, firm, corporation or association of persons subject to the tax imposed by Section 1 or Section
2 of this act, shall not be liable for the tax imposed by this Section
3, or for a greater tax under this Section 3, as the case may be, because
of the employment of stand-by power facilities by such user during
periods of failure of the supply of purchased power; and provided
further that any person, firm, corporation or association of persons
the principal use of whose electric facilities is the generation of
electricity for sale, shall not be subject to an additional tax under

COVERDALE v. PIPE LINE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

604

broad exemptions not assailed here, subjects the users of
electrical or mechanical power, not procured from those
subject to § 1 or § 2, to a tax of one dollar per annum for
each horsepower of capacity of the machinery operated
by the taxpayer for the purpose of producing this power.
The state court has held that section three, here in question, does not lay a tax on those who own the machines
but on those who use them in the conduct of their business, State v. H. L. Hunt, Inc., 182 La. 1075, 1079-1080;
162 So. 777, a decision accepted,- so far as the incidence of
the tax is concerned, as a matter of local law conclusive on
us. St. Louis & S. W. R. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.
350, 362; Storaasli v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 57, 62. We
regard the tax as one upon the privilege of producing the
power.
Second. The language of the state statute makes it
quite certain that this privilege tax falls alike on those
engaged in interstate or in intrastate commerce, or in
both. While a privilege tax by a state for engaging in
interstate business has frequently met the condemnation
of this Court as a regulation of commerce, 5 privilege taxes
this Section 3 on the horsepower capacity of any machinery or
apparatus used in the generation of electricity; and provided further that in computing the tax imposed by this Section 3, there shall
be excluded from the horsepower capacity of all machinery and
apparatus operated, that part of such capacity used in a mechanical,
agricultural or horticultural pursuit, or any other occupation exempt
from a license tax under Section 8 of Article X of the Constitution
of Louisiana, or in operating a sawmill or a mill for grinding sugarcane or producing raw sugar, or in conducting any business of selling
electricity or any business conducted under any franchise or permit
granted by the State of Louisiana or any subdivision thereof, or in
propelling or motivating any automobile, truck, tug, vessel, or other
self-propelled vehicle, on land, water or air."
Cooney v. Mountain States Tel. Co., 294 U. S. 384, 392, and
cases cited in note four; Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax
Comm'n, 302 U. S.90; Fisher's Blend Station v. State Tax Comm'n,
297 U. S. 650; Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 170, 175.
3383*-38-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

for "carrying on a local business," even though measured
by interstate business, have been sustained. American
Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Ficklen v. Shelby
County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1; 6 cf. Western Live
Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, ante, p. 250. The present
case falls well within the line of state tax authority.
Taxation by the states of the business of interstate
commerce is forbidden only because it is deemed an interference with that commerce, the uniform regulation of
which is necessarily reserved to the Congress. Minnesota Ratc Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 400. As this source of
revenue, even if treated in a non-discriminatory manner,
is withdrawn from local reach by inference from the delegated grant, the exemption of those engaged in interstate commerce from the taxation others bear should not
be extended beyond the necessity of keeping that commerce free from interference. Consequently, property
taxes on the instrumentalities or net income taxes on the
proceeds of inters' ate commerce are upheld. Cudahy
Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; United States
Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321.
Privileges closely connected with the commerce may
be regarded as distinct for purposes of taxation. So, local
privilege taxes on storage in transit, compressing or dealing in cotton, already moving in its interstate journey
from plantation to mill, are validated as imposed upon
operations in connection with a commodity withdrawn
from the transportation movement. Federal Compress
Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17, 21; Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584; cf. Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S.
1. And similar taxes are upheld for the privilege of
mining ores or producing gas, notwithstanding the "practical continuity" of the taxed productive operation and
the interstate movement. Oliver Iron Min. Co. v. Lord,
6But

see Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 296.

COVERDALE v. PIPE LINE CO.
604

Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S. 172; Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S.
284. In Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165,
an Idaho statute taxing the generation of electricity at
so much a kilowatt hour was upheld because a difference
was perceived between the conversion of the mechanical
energy of falling water into electrical energy and the
transportation of the latter. The tax here imposed on
the operation of the machinery is of the same type.
The power used by the appellee is obtained from 'internal combustion engines which transform the potential
energy of natural gas into mechanical power, transmitted
by piston and piston-rod from the combustion chamber
of the engine to the compression chamber of the compressor. While the engine and compressor units are assembled on a common bed plate, their functions are
thus seen to be as completely separate as if they operated
through belting. The engine is the "prime mover" of the
tax act, producing power to drive the compressor. While
the use of the engine for the production of power synchronizes with the transmission of that power to the
compressor, production occurs prior to transmission. It
is just as much local as the generation of electrical power.
Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245, State Tax Commission v. Interstate Natural Gas Co., 284 U. S. 41, and
Cooney v. Mountain States Tel. Co., 294 U. S. 384, are
pressed upon us as controlling authorities for the invalidation of the tax. We think they belong to the caiegory
of cases which construe the state tax acts involved as
taxes on interstate commerce and ifs instrumentalities
rather than on operations closely connected with but distinct from that commerce. In the Interstate case and
the Cooney case taxes levied on the business of engaging
in interstate commerce were held invalid. Likewise, in
the Helson case, this Court concluded that the tax on
gasoline brought into the state and used on an interstate
ferry was analogous to a tax on the use of the ferry itself

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

in transit and therefore within the rule prohibiting state
taxes on commerce. A narrow distinction in fact exists
between the tax held invalid in the Helson case and the
valid tax considered in Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, where a tax on gasoline brought
into the state, stored and then used to drive engines in
interstate transportation; was held valid. The storage
and withdrawal was an intrastate, taxable event. See
also Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, 289 U. S. 249,
252; Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472, 479.
Third. To determine whether this challenged state tax
enactment is invalid as an interference with interstate
commerce under the decisions of this Court, the connection of the privilege taxed with interstate commerce has
been considered. Other factors also show that the tax
here does not interfere with interstate commerce. The
tax is without discrimination in form or application as
between inter- and intra-state commerce and it cannot
be imposed by more than one state. The course of interstate commerce is clogged by taxes designed or applied
so as to hamper its free flow. Section three, however,
bearing equally on all use, is only complementary to the
taxes of sections one and two. Henneford v. Silas Mason
Co., 300 U. S. 577, 584. It bears generally on all use of
power and is not discriminatory. It obviously adds to
the cost of the interstate commerce. But increased cost
alone is not sufficient to invalidate the tax as an interference with that commerce. Western Live Stock v.
Bureau of Revenue, ante, p. 254.
It was held by the District Court that this is a tax
which may be levied by other states and so is invalid,
and tha.t a state's desire to save gas for its citizens may
induce it to raise the privilege tax to prohibitory rates.
It is true that each state through which a pipe line passes
could lay a tax on the use of engines for the production
of power, but that would not be multiple taxation

HALE v. KENTUCKY.
Counsel for Parties.

604

"merely because interstate commerce is being done," as
discussed in Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue,
ante, p. 255, and the authorities there cited. It would not
be a tax on the same activity, either in form or in substance. Like a property tax on the pipes or equipment
in different states, it would be a different tax, on a different and wholly separate subject matter, with no cumulative effect caused by the interstate character of the
business. It would not be multiple taxation for each
state to tax the "booster station" ad valorem as property.
Neither is it prohibited multiple taxation to have the
possibility of other privilege taxes on the production of
power. It is length of line, not interstate co'-merce,
which makes another tax possible.
The decree of the District Court is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of

the opinion the decree

should be affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or determination of this case.
HALE v. KENTUCKY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 680. Argued March 29, 1938.-Decided April 11, 1938.
Proofs held sufficient to show a systematic and arbitrary exclusion
of Negroes from jury lists because of their race or color, constituting a denial of the equal protection of the laws, and entitling the
petitioner, a Negro convicted of murder, to a new trial. P. 616.
269 Ky. 743; 108 S.-W. 2d 716, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 629, to review a judgment affirming
a sentence for murder.

Messrs. Charles H. Houston and Leon A. Ransom for
petitioner.

