HALE v. KENTUCKY.
Counsel for Parties.

604

"merely because interstate commerce is being done," as
discussed in Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue,
ante, p. 255, and the authorities there cited. It would not
be a tax on the same activity, either in form or in substance. Like a property tax on the pipes or equipment
in different states, it would be a different tax, on a different and wholly separate subject matter, with no cumulative effect caused by the interstate character of the
business. It would not be multiple taxation for each
state to tax the "booster station" ad valorem as property.
Neither is it prohibited multiple taxation to have the
possibility of other privilege taxes on the production of
power. It is length of line, not interstate co'-merce,
which makes another tax possible.
The decree of the District Court is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of

the opinion the decree

should be affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or determination of this case.
HALE v. KENTUCKY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 680. Argued March 29, 1938.-Decided April 11, 1938.
Proofs held sufficient to show a systematic and arbitrary exclusion
of Negroes from jury lists because of their race or color, constituting a denial of the equal protection of the laws, and entitling the
petitioner, a Negro convicted of murder, to a new trial. P. 616.
269 Ky. 743; 108 S.-W. 2d 716, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 629, to review a judgment affirming
a sentence for murder.

Messrs. Charles H. Houston and Leon A. Ransom for
petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 V. S.

Mr. A. E. Funk, Assistant Attorney General, with wN-hom
Hubert Meredith. Attorney General, of Kentucky, was on
the brief, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner, a Negro, was indicted in 1936 for murder
in McCracken County, Kentucky. He moved to set aside
the indictment upon the ground that the jury commissioners had excluded from the list from which the grand
jury was drawn all persons of African descent because
of their race and color and thus denied to him the equal
protection of the laws in violation of the Constitution of
the United States. In support of his motion, he presented
an affidavit shoving that the population of McCracken
County was approximately 48,000 of which 8,000 were
Negroes; that the assessor's books for the county contained the names of approximately 6,000 white persons
and 700 Negroes who were qualified for jury service in accordance with the Kentucky Statutes, ยง 2241; that the
jury commissioners filled the wheel for jury service for
1936 with between 500 and 600 names exclusively of
white citizens and that no Negro was excluded "because
he was not an intelligent, sober, discreet and impartial
citizen, resident housekeeper" of the county or not of the
requisite age; that the failure to draw any Negro for service was not due to any of the disqualifications mentioned
in the Kentucky Statutes, ยง 2248. The affidavit further
stated that petitioner could prove by sheriffs of McCracken- County, serving respectively from 1906 to 1936,
that during their terms no Negroes had been summoned
for service on any grand or petit jury in the county nor
was the name of any Negro placed in the hands of the
sheriff to be so summoned; also that petitioner could
prove by federal officials that for many years prior to
1936 Negro citizens of the county had served on juries in
the federal court at Paducah; also that petitioner could

HALE v. KENTUCKY.
61:3

Opinion of thc Court.

prove by many named citizens of standing in the comInunity that for a long period of years there were Negroes
who were citizens of the county and qualified for service
on juries in the state court. Petitioner alleged that the
proof would show "a long continued, unvarying and
wholesale exclusion of Negroes from jury service in this
County on account of their race and color," and that this
practice had been "systematic and arbitrary" on the part
of the officers and commissioners selecting names for jury
service for a period of fifty years or longer.
Petitioner filed a supplemental affidavit stating that
he had learned that in one case in the state court in 1921
the trial judge had directed a Negro jury to be summoned
from bystanders, but that those Negro jurors were not on
the jury panel.
The attorney for the State stipulated that the original
and supplemental affidavits should be considered as evidence and that the witnesses named would testify as
therein set forth. No evidence to the contrary was introduced by the State. The motion to set aside the indictment was overruled. Petitioner then moved to discharge the entire panel of the jury for cause, upon the
same facts, and the motion was denied.
Petitioner, having reserved his exceptions, pleaded not
guilty and the trial proceeded. He was convicted and
sentenced,to death. The judgment was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals of the State. 269 Ky. 743; 108 S. W.
2d 716. It appears from an affidavit of the clerk of the
circuit court of McCracken County that by inadvertence
a copy of the motion to set aside the indictment was
omitted from'the record before the Court of Appeals.
That court, after a summary of the facts shown by the
record said that the case was one "where the proof might
be regarded as sufficient to sustain the ground upon which
the motion was evidently made, but there is wanting in
the record a sufficient statement of those grounds to per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

mit the introduction of that proof. The failure so pointed
out is analogous," the court said, "to a case where there
is proof without pleading, and the rule is that 'pleading
without proof or proof without pleading' are each unavailable."
On petition for rehearing, the motion which had been
omitted from the record was brought to the attention
of the Court of Appeals. Rehearing was denied. On petition to this Court for certiorari the parties stipulated
that the motion to set aside the indictment as filed by
petitioner in the trial court might be read and considered
as a proper part of the record. Certiorari was granted.
On argument at this bar, the Attorney General of the
State expressly disclaimed reliance upon the omission
from the original record on appeal of the motion to set
aside the indictment, as the fact of the motion had been
brought to the attention of the Court of Appeals upon the
application for rehearing, and conceded that if the facts
set forth in the affidavits submitted upon that motion
were sufficient to show a denial of constitutional right,
the judgment should be reversed.
We are of the opinion that the affidavits, which by the
stipulation of the State were to be taken as proof, and
were uncontroverted, sufficed to show a systematic and
arbitrary exclusion of Negroes from the jury.lists solely
because of their race or color, constituting a denial of the
equal protection of the laws guaranteed to petitioner by
the Fourteenth Amendment. Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.
370, 397; Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S.442, 447; Norris v.
Alabama, 294 U. S.587.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

