68

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

for which justice to the defendant requires his presence.
It is the price which the state may exact as the condition
of opening its courts to the plaintiff. Frank L. Young
Co. v. McNeal-Edwards Co., 283 U. S. 398, 400; cf. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Lindell, 281 U. S. 14, 17.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs in the result.

COMPANIA ESPANOLA DE NAVEGACION MARI-

TIMA, S. A., v. THE NAVEMAR

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

N.

242.

Argued January 7, 10, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

1. A vessel of a friendly government in its possession and service
is a public vessel, even though engaged in the carriage of merchandise for hire, and as such is immune from suit in the courts
of admiralty of the United States. P. 74.
2. This immunity the friendly government may assert either through
diplomatic channels or as a claimant ih the courts of the United
States. Id.
If the claim is allowed by the executive branch of our government, it is then the duty of the courts to release the vessel upon
appropriate suggestion by the Attorney General of the United
States, or other officer acting under his direction.
The foreign government is also entitled as of right upon a proper
showing, to appear in a pending suit, there to assert its claim to
the vessel, and to raise the jurisdictional question in its own name
or that of its accredited and recognized representative.
3. The District Court took possession of a Spanish vessel on a libel
by one claiming to be the owner, who alleged wrongful dispossession by members of the crew. The Spanish Ambassador, by a

COMPANIA ESPANOLA v. NAVEMAR.
68

Counsel for Parties.

verified suggestion, challenged the jurisdiction on the ground that
the vessel, before the arrest, was a public vessel in possession of
the Spanish Government and so immune from process. He also
claimed that the Spanish Government was owner and entitled to
possession by virtue of a Spanish decree of attachment. The
Department of State had refused to act in the matter and had
referred the Ambassador to the courts. At -a hearing upon the
suggestion and reply affidavits, the District Court found that no one
had taken possession in behalf of the Spanish Government, although endorsements had been made by Spanish consuls in
foreign ports, on the ship's roll and register stating that the ship
had become the property of the Spanish State through an attachment. Held:
(1) That the Ambassador's application was properly entertained. P. 75.
(2) The Department of State having declined to act, the want
of admiralty jurisdiction because of the alleged public status of
the vessel and the right of the Spanish Government to demand
possession of the vessel as owner if it so elected, were appropriate
subjects for judicial inquiry upon proof of the matters alleged. Id.
(3) The suggestion, though sufficient as a statement of the
contentions made, was not proof of its allegations. Id.
(4) The decree of attachment, being in invitum, did not dispossess the shipowner, a taking of actual possession by some act
of physical dominion or control in behalf of the Spanish Government or some act of recognition by the ship's officers was needful. Id.
(5) The Ambassador should' be permitted to interVene as
claimant. P. 76.
90 F. (2d) 673, reversed.

CERTioRARi, 302 U. S. 669, to review the reversal of an
order of the District Court refusing leave to the Ambassador of the Republic of Spain to appear as claimant of
a ship in an admiralty case. The court below deemed
the Ambassador's verified suggestion conclusive and ordered the libel dismissed.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones, with whom Messrs. D. Roger
Englar, Oscar R. Houston, and James W. Ryan were on

the brief, for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Mr. Charles W. Hagen, with whom Messrs. Anthony
V. Lynch, Jr., and Horace T. Atkins were on the brief,
for the Spanish Ambassador, respondent in this Court.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In a suit in admiralty, brought in a district court by
the alleged owner to recover possession of a Spanish merchant vessel, the Spanish Ambassador asked leave to intervene as claimant on the basis of an affidavit of the
Spanish Acting Consul General suggesting that when the
suit was brought the vessel was the property -ff the Republic of Spain, by virtue of a decree of attac~iment promulgated by the President of the Republic, appropriating
the vessel to the public use, and that it was then in the
possession of the Spanish Government. The principal
question for decision is whether it was the duty of the
court, upon presentation of the suggestion, to dismiss the
libel for want of admiralty jurisdiction,
.'etitioner, a Spanish corporation, brought the present
suit in admiralty in the district court for eastern New
york against the Spanish steamship "Navemar," five
members of her crew, and all persons claiming an interest
in her, to recover possession of the vessel. The libel alleged that petitioner was owner of the vessel, which was
within the territorial jurisdiction of the court; and that
while she was in petitioner's possession the individual respondents, acting as a committee of the crew, had wrongfully and forcibly seized, and had since retained possession
of the vessel. After hearing evidence in support of the
petition, the district court rendered its decree upon default, directing the marshal to place libelant in possession.
Thereupon the Spanish Ambassador filed a suggestion
in the cause, challenging the jurisdiction of the court
on the ground that the "Navemar" was a public vessel
of the Republic of Spain, not subject to judicial process
of the court, and asking that it direct delivery of the

COMPANIA ESPANOLA v. NAVEMAR.
68

Opinion of the Court.

vessel to the Spanish Acting Consul General in New York.
The suggestion alleged that when the suit was brought
the "Navemar" was the property of the Spanish Government by virtue of its decree of October 10, 1936, and
was in the possession of the Republic of Suain. The
district court issued its order to show cause why the
default should not be opened and the Ambassador permitted to appear specially as claimant of the vessel.
After - hearing the court denied the application but with
leave to the Ambassador to make further application upon
fuller presentation of the facts showing the ownership
and possession of the vessel by the Spanish Government.
Meanwhile the Department of State had refused to
act upon the Spanish Government's claim of possession
and ownership of the "Navemar," had declined to honor
the request of the Ambassador that representations be
made in the pending suit by the Attorney General of the
United States in behalf of the Spanish Government, and
had advised the Ambassador that his Government was
entitled "to appear directly before the court in a case of
this character."
A second application by the Ambassador for leave to
appear as a claimant upon a verified suggestion, stating
additional circumstances relied upon to establish possession of the vessel by the Republic of Spain, was denied.
18 F. Supp. 153. On appeal the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, after i, stricting the appeal to the
order of the district court on the second application,
reversed that order and directed that the libel be dismissed. 90 F. (2d) 673. We granted certiorari, because
the case is of public importance and because of alleged
conflict of the decision below with our decision in The
Pesaro, 255 U. S. 216, and with that of the Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in The Attualita, 238 Fed.
909.
Respondent's suggestion on the second application presented two contentions: one, a challenge to the jurisdic-

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

tion on the ground that the "Navemar" was a public
vessel, immune from arrest and process of the court; the
other, that the Spanish Government was owner of the
vessel and entitled 4o her possession by virtue of the
decree of attachment.
In addition to the general allegations of ownership and
possession of the vessel by the Spanish Government in
the first application, the suggestion in the second set up
the acquisition of possession in behalf of the Spanish
Government by specific acts of its consular officers in
Argentina and in New York. It alleged that on October
26, 1936, the Spanish Consul at Rosario, Argentina, had
endorsed on the ship's roll a statement that "Through a
cable dated 26 of the inst month from the Director General of the Merchant Marine this ship has become the
property of the State through attachment according to
the Decree of Oct. 10, 1936," and that on October 28
the Spanish Acting Consul General at Buenos Aires had
made a similar endorsement on the ship's register. It
was also alleged that on arrival in New York in November
the Spanish Acting Consul General at that port, by direction of the Ambassador, had instructed the master of the
'"Navemar" "to await and abide further instructions . . .
as regards any further use of the" vessel, and that on
November 28 he had instructed the master to render a
detailed account of the expenses of the "Navemar" and
of minor repairs that she might require. There was no
averment that the alleged seizure by the members of the
crew was an act of or in behalf of the Spanish
Government.
The district court allowed a full hearing upon the suggestion and upon reply affidavits submitted by libelant,
in the course of which there was opportunity for the
parties to present proof of all the relevant facts. Cf. Ex
parte New York, 256 U. S. 503. The court found that
no one had taken possession of the "Navemar" in behalf

COMPANIA ESPANOLA v. NAVEMAR.
68

Opinion of the Court.

of the Spanish Government. It pointed out that neither
the ship's roll nor its register is a document of title or
possession, t.he ship's roll being merely a record, in the
casc of Spanish vessels usually deposited with the Spanish
consul while in port, showing arrivals and sailings of the
vessel, the kind of cargo carried, the list of passengers, and
the enrollment of the members of the crew, and the ship's
register being only a record of the nationality of the vessel
as determined by the place of her home port. It found
that none of the consular officers mentioned had done
any act purporting to take possession of the vessel; that
none of them had informed the master that he wished to
take ppssession or had any intention of doing so; that the
vessel had proceeded under command of her master upon
her voyage from Buenos Aires to New York, manned by
officers and crew in the employ of petitioner; that upon
arrival, the master, under direction of the ship's agent,
had discharged cargo; and that before discharge the
freight money was paid by the consignees to the agents
of the time charterer in New York.
The district court, upon this and other evidence not
necessary to detail, concluded that the "Navemar" was
never in possession of the Spanish Government before
her seizure by the members of the crew in the territorial
waters of the United States, and that she was not a
vessel in the public service of the Spanish Government.
The Court of Appeals, without reviewing the findings
of the district court, or the evidence, adverted to the allegation of the first suggestion, substantially repeated on
information and belief in the second, that the Spanish
Consul at Rosario "pursuant to instructions from the Director General of the Spanish Merchant Marine, took possession of the . . .Navemar in the name of the Republic of Spain . . . whereby the . . .Navemar then and
there became and at all times since has remained the
property of the Government of the Republic of Spain."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Declaring that the court was bound to accept this allegation as conclusive, it held that the vessel must be taken
to be a public vessel owned by and in the possession of
the Spanish Government, and as such immune from suit
in the courts of the United States.
This we think was a mistaken view of the force and
effect of the suggestion. Admittedly a vessel of a friendly
government in its possession and service is a public vessel, even though engaged in the cdrriage of merchandise
for hire, and as such is immune from suit in the courts
of admiralty of the United States. Berizzi Bros. Co. v.
The Pesaro, 271 U. S. 562; cf. The Exchange, 7 Cranch
116. And in a case such as the present it is open to a
friendly government to assert that such is the public
status of the vessel and to claim her immunity from suit,
either through diplomatic channels or, if it chooses, as a
claimant in the courts of the United States.
If the claim is recognized and allowed by the executive
branch of the government, it is then the duty of the
courts to release the vessel upon appropriate suggestion
by the Attorney General of the United States, or other
officer acting under his direction. The Cassius, 2 Dall.
365; The Exchange, supra; The Pizarro, 19 Fed. Cas. No.
11,199; see The Constitution, L. R. 4 P. D. 39; cf. Ex
parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522; The Parlement Belge, L. R.
4 P. D. 129. The foreign government is also entitled as
of right upon a proper showing, to appear in a pending
suit, there to assert its claim to the vessel, and to raise
the jurisdictional question in its own name or that of its
accredited and recognized representative. The Sapphire,
11 Wall. 164, 167; The Anne, 3 Wheat. 435, 445-446;
The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 283, 353; Colombia
v. Cauca Co., 190 U. S. 524; Ex parte Transportes Maritimos, 264 U. S. 105; Berizzi Bros. Co. v: The Pesaro,
supra.
After refusal )f the Secretary of State to act upon the
present claim, the Ambassador adopted the latter course.

COMPANIA ESPANOLA v. NAVEMAR.
68

Opinion of the Court.

His application to be permitted to appear and present the
claim was properly entertained by the district court. But
it was not bound, as the Court of Appeals thought, to
accept the allegations of the* suggestion as conclusive.
The Department of State having declined to act, the want
of admiralty jurisdiction because of the alleged public
status of the vessel and the right of the Spanish Government to demand possession of the vessel as owner if it
so elected, were appropriate subjects for judicial inquiry
upon proof of the matters alleged.
But the filed suggestion, though sufficient as a statement of the contentions made, was not proof of its allegations. This Court has explicitly declined to give such a
suggestion the force of proof or the status of a like suggestion coming from the executive department of our
government. Ex parte luir, supra; The Pesaro, supra.
Berizzi Bros. Co. v. The Pcsaro, supra, did not hold otherwise for there it was stipulated that the vessel, when arrested, was owned, possessed and controlled by a foreign
government and used by it in carrying merchandise for
hire. The sole question was one of law, whether, upon
the facts stipulated, the vessel was immune from suit.
The district court concluded, rightly we think, that the
evidenceat hand did not support the claim of the suggestion that the "Navemar" had been in the possession of the
Spanish Government. The decree of attachment, without more, did not operate to change the possession which,
before the decree, was admittedly in petitioner. To accomplish that result, since the decree was in invituni,
actual possession by somne act of physical dominion or
control in behalf of the Spanish Govermnent. was needful.
The Davis, 10 Wall. 15, 21; Lony v. The Taonpico, 16 Fed.
491, 493, 494; The Attualila, s pra; The Carlo Potna,
259 Fed. 369, 370, revescd on other grounds, 255 U. S.
219, or at least some recognition on the part of the ship's
officers that they were controlling the vessel and crew in

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

behalf of their government.' Both were lacking, as was
support for any contention that the vessel was in fact
employed in public service. See Long v. The Tampico,
supra,493, 494; cf. Berizzi Bros. Co. v. The Pesaro, supra.
The district court rightly declined to treat the suggestion as conclusive or sufficient as proof to require the
court to relinquish its jurisdiction. But as the suggestion
was tendered in support of an application to appear as a
claimant in the suit, and as it put forth a claim to title
and right to possession of the vessel, the Ambassador
should have been permitted to intervene and, if so advised,
to litigate its claims in the suit. In Ex parte Muir, supra,
and in The Pesaro, supra, 219, the Ambassador of the
intervening government challenged the jurisdiction of the
court, but did not place himself or his Government in the
attitude of a suitor. Here the application as construed
by the trial court was for permission to intervene as a
claimant. We think the applicant should be permitted to
occupy that position if so advised.
The decree of the Court of Appeals will be reversed.
The respondent will be permitted to intervene for the
purpose of asserting the Spanish Government's ownership
and right to possession of the vessel, and the order of the
district court will be modified accordingly.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
'In The Jupiter, 1924 P. 236, 241, 244 (cf. The Jupiter No. 2,
1925 P. 69; The Jupiter No. 3, 1927 P. 122, 125), and in the recently
reported The Cristina, 59 Lloyd's List Law Reports 43, 50, on which
respondent relies, the possession taken in behalf of the claimant
government was actual. The judgment in The Cristina appears to
have proceeded on that ground. In The Jupiter, it appeared that
before the suit was brought the master had repudiated the possession and ownership of the plaintiffs and held the vessel for the
claimant government. The report of The Cristina in the Admiralty
Division, 59 Lloyd's List Law Reports 1, 3, indicates that the master
and crew were in the pay of the Spanish Government.

