OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

Helvering v. Twin Bell Syndicate, supra. The agreement to pay respondent one-third of the net profits
derived from the development and operation of the properties was a personal covenant and did not purport to
grant respondent an interest in the properties themselves.
If there were no net profits, nothing would be payable to
him. No trust was declared by which respondent could
claim an equitable interest in the res. As consideration
for the sale of his stock in the San Gabriel Company respondent bargained for and obtained an economic advantage from the Midway Company's operations but that
advantage or profit did not constitute a depletable interest in the oil,and gas in place. Palmer v. Bender, supra;
Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., supra.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

took

no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.
IIELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. ELBE OIL LAND DEVELOPMENT
CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 446.

Argued February 10, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.

The taxpayer sold all of its interest in certain oil and gas properties
in consideration of cash down 'and deferred payments in several
stated amounts, the agreement further providing that, when the
vendee had been reimbursed for expenditures in acquisition, development and operation, the taxpayer should receive one-third
of the net profits of production and operation of the properties.
Held:

IILVERING v. ELBE OIL LAND CO.
372

373

Opinion of the Court.

I. That there was an absolute sale divesting the taxplayer of al
interest or investnmnt in the properties, including oil and gas in
place. P. 375.
2. The provision for payment from profits was merely a personal covenant of the vendee. Id.
3. The taxpayer is not entitled under the Revenue Act of
1928, ยง 114 (b) (3) to a deduction for depletion computed on the
cash payments. Id.
Neither the cash .payments nor the agreement for a share of
subsequent profits constituted an advance royalty, or a "bonus"
in the nature of an advance royalty, within the decisions recognizing a right to the depletion allowance with respect to payments
of that sort.
4. The words "gross income from the property," as used
in the statute governing the allowance for depletion, mean gross
income received from the operation of the oil and gas wells
by one who has a capital investment therein,-not income from
the sale of the oil and gas properties themselves. P. 375.
91 F. 2d 127, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 677, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 34 B. T. A. 333,
sustaining the Commissioner's disallowance of deductions
for depletion.

Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and Ellis N. Slack were on the brief,

for petitioner.
Mr. George T. Altman for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the
the Court.

opinion of

The question is whether certain payments received by
respondent in the years 1928 and 1929 constituted "gross
income from the property," within the meaning of that
phrase as used in relation to oil and gas wells in ยง 114
(b) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1928, so as to entitle respondent to the prescribed depletion allowance. The Cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

cult Court of Appeals, reversing the decision of the Board
of Tax Appeals (34 B. T. A. 333), sustained respondent's
claim. 91 F. (2d) 127. Certiorari was granted because
of an asserted conflict with the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Commissioner
v. Fleming, 82 F. (2d) 324.
Respondent is a California corporation which acquired
certain properties consisting of oil and gas prospecting
permits, drilling agreements, leases and equipment. Development work resulted in the discovery of oil. On
October 3, 1927, respondent conveyed all its right, title
and interest in the described properties to the Honolulu
Consolidated Oil Company. The latter agreed to pay to
respondent $350,000 upon the execution of the agreement
and, if the Honolulu Company should not elect to abandon the purchase (in accordance with one of the stipulations), the additional sums of $400,000 in each of the
years 1928, 1929 and 1930, and the further sum of $450,000
in 1931. After the time when the Honolulu Company had
been fully reimbursed as provided in the agreement for
all its expenditures in the acquisition, development and
operation of the properties, respondent was to receive
monthly one-third of the net profits resulting from the
production and operation. After careful stipulations with
respect to such reimbursement and the computation of
net profits, the agreement provided:
"Anything in this agreement contained to the contrary
notwithstanding, it is the intention of the parties to this
agreement that the full ownership, possession and control
of all the properties, the subject of this agreement, and of
all of the personal property acquired and/or used on and
in connection with the operation and development of the
properties, the subject of this agreement, shall be vested
in Honolulu, and Elbe shall have no interest in or to said
properties or in or to any personal property used on or
in-connection with the operation or development of the
said properties or in or to the salvage value of any thereof,

HELVERING v. ELBE OIL LAND CO.
372

375

Opinion of thc Cour.

except as provided by paragraph 9" [relating to abandonment of the purchase and reconveyance].
The. first payment of $350,000 was received by respondent in 1927 and being greater than the cost of all
the properties transferred, respondent reported as taxable
income the difference between that cost basis and the
amount received. In its income tax returns for the
years 1928 and 1929, respondent reported the payments
of $400,000 received in each of the years and claimed 271/
per cent. thereof as an allowance for depletion. This
is the claim which has been sustained below.
We agree with the conclusion of the Board of Tax Appeals that the contract between the respondent and the
Honolulu Company provided for an absolute sale of all
the properties in question, including all the oil and gas
in place, and that respondent did not retain any interest
or investment therein. The aggregate sum of $2,000,000
was paid as an agreed purchase price to which was to be
added the one-third of the net profits payable on the conditions specified. We are unable to conclude that the
provision for this additional payment qualified in any
way the effect of the transaction as an absolute sale or
was other than a personal covenant of the Honolulu
Company. See Helvering v. O'Donnell, ante, p. 370. In
this view, neither the cash payments nor the agreement
for a share of subsequent profits constituted an advance
royalty, or a "bonus" in the nature of an advance royalty, within the decisions recognizing a right to the depletion allowance with respect to payments of that sort.
Such payments are made to the recipient as a return
upon his capital investmert in the oil or gas in place.
See Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 111, 112; Murphy
Oil Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 299, 302. -Payments of the
purchase price which are received upon a sale of oil and
gas properties are in a different category. The words
"gross income from the property," as used in the statute
governing the allowance for depletion, mean gross in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

come received from the operation of the oil and gas wells
by one who has a capital investment therein,-not income from the sale of the oil and gas properties themselves. See Darby-Lynde Co. v. Alexander, 51 F. (2d)
56; 59. We conclude that as respondent disposed of the
properties, retaining no investment therein, it was not
entitled to make the deduction claimed for depletion.
Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551, 557; Helvering v. Twin
Bell Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 321; Thomas v. Perkins,
301 U. S. 655, 661; Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., ante,
p. 362; Helvering v. O'Donnell, supra.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. MOUNTAIN PRODUCERS CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 600.

Argued February 10, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.

1. The allowance for depletion in the case of oil and gas wells is
fixed by Rev. Act 1926, ยง 204 (2), arbitrarily at a specified per
cent. of the "gross income from the property," for convenience
of administration; the allowance is an act of grace; the rule prescribed can not be varied to suit particular equities; the term
"gross income from the property," means gross income from the
oil and gas, and must be taken in its natural sense,-such income
may be more or less than market value according to the bearing
of particular contracts. P. 381.

