LINCOLN CO. v. STEWART-WARNER CORP. 545
Counsel for Parties.

LINCOLN ENGINEERING CO. v. STEWARTWARNER CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 608.

Argued March 10, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

1. Patent No. 1,593,791, July 27, 1926, to Butler, for the combination
of a headed nipple, for receiving lubricant, a grease pump and
a coupler having a multi-jawed chuck which is closed over the
head of the nipple by the pressure of the grease acting on a piston
within the tube of the coupler,-held void as claiming more than
the applicant invented. P. 548.
Assuming that the coupler embraced a patentable improvement
in the respect that the jaws of the chuck are actuated by the
grease pressure, the chuck form of coupling as well as the headed
nipple and grease pump are old in the art and perform no new
functions in this combination.
2. The improvement of one part of an old combination gives no
right to claim that improvement in combination with other old
parts which perform no new function in the combination. Rogers
v. Alemite Corp., 298 U. S. 415. P. 549.
91 F. 2d 757, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 682, to review the affirmance of
a decree, 15 F. Supp. 571; 16 id. 778, holding the present
petitioner guilty of contributory infringement in selling
headed fittings or nipples for lubrication such as are
described in the respondent's patent and which are usable, and intended to be used, in connection with the
grease gun and coupler of the patent.

Mr. Leonard L. Kalish, with whom Messrs. Delos G.
Haynes and Lloyd R. Koenig were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Lynn A. Williams for respondent.

53383'-38--35

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The District Court 1 and the Circuit Court of Appeals '
have held the petitioner guilty of contributory infringement of the Butler Patent No. 1,593,791. We granted
certiorari because of alleged conflict with our decision in
Rogers v. Alemite Corporation, reported with Bassick
Manufacturing Co. v. Hollingshead Co., 298 U. S. 415.
Like that in the Rogers case, the patent in suit has to do
with apparatus for lubricating bearings, especially those
of automobiles, by the use of a nipple or fitting connected
with the bearing, a gun consisting of a compressor or pump
for propelling the lubricant under high pressure, a hose
or conduit to connect the pump with the fitting, and a
means of coupling the conduit to the fitting to make a tight
joint during the operation of greasing. Both respondent
and petitioner market apparatus for pressure lubrication,
including fittings and guns. The charge is that the petitioner sells fittings such as are described in the respondent's patent which are usable, and intended to be used,
in connection with the gun and coupler of the patent.
What was said in our earlier decision in respect of the
prior art need not be repeated. Butler's alleged invention is in the same field and deals with similar apparatus
as did Gullborg's patent, considered in the Rogers case.
As there shown, it was old practice in the lubrication of
bearings to use in combination a fitting connected with
the bearing through which oil or grease was to be propelled into the bearing, and a gun, which was joined to
the fitting by a coupler. In the greasing operation the
coupler is fastened to the head, of the fitting and the
pump is operated to drive the lubricant through the
fitting to the bearing. Not only was this combination old
but the elements long used in the art varied in design
'15 F.Supp. 571; 16 F.Supp. 778.
'91 F. (2d) 757.

LINCOLN CO. v. STEWART-WARNER CORP. 547
545

Opinion of the Court.

and dimension. Fittings were of different sizes and shapes
and had diverse arrangements for their closure when not
in actual use for the injection of lubricant. Guns were
of many sizes and types. Various forms of coupler had
been used for sealing the connection between the pump
hose and the fitting. In the Rogers case it appeared
that fittings with lugs or pins to be engaged by the coupler
wer old but that Gullborg had obtained a patent for a
new form of pin fitting the novel feature of which was
means of automatic closure and opening for admittance
of the grease in connection with a pin which passed
through the bore of the fitting. This was not the patent
there in suit. Gullborg also obtained a patent in which
the novel feature of certain claims was a bayonet-slotted
coupler so designed as to co6perate with a pin fitting
(including one of the type covered by his other patent),
to permit the building up of very high pressure and, by
its operation upon disengagement, to obviate exudation
of grease about the head of the fitting. In other claims
Gullborg claimed a combination of a pin fitting, of the
type covered by his fitting patent, a pump, a discharge
conduit secured to the pump, and a hollow coupling member of any type (whether old and unpatented or of the
improved construction disclosed in the patent) for receiving the closed end of the fitting. In the Rogers case
the owner of the patent asserted the sale of any grease
gun for use with the patented pin fitting of Gullborg,
or the sale of any pin fitting, whether of the Gullborg
type or of an old type, susceptible of use with the improved Gullborg coupler, constituted contributory infringement of the patent. We held that as the combination of pump, connecting conduit, coupler, and fitting was
old, Gullborg could not, by inventing a new and improved
type of coupler or fitting claim either of these in combination with the old forms of the other elements so as to
exclude the public from the use and sale of the old

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

forms of fittings or grease guns even though these might
be used respectively with Gullborg's improved coupler or
his improved pin fittings, because, in the combinations
claimed, an old-type pin fitting, or an old-type coupler
had no novel function over those of the prior art. We
said that if Gullborg had invented anything he had invented an improved pin fitting and an improved coupler
and that to allow him to claim either in combination
with old elements which performed no new function,
would be to permit him to extend the monopoly of his
invention to those old and well known devices.
With this background we turn to the patent in suit.
Like that of Gullborg, the claim is for a combination.
It is as follows:
"2. The combination with a headed nipple for receiving
lubricant, of a lubricant compressor having a coupling
member for connecting said compressor and nipple comprising a cylinder, a piston movable within the cylinder,
and having an aperture for the discharge of lubricant
thereof, an apertured sealing seat carried by said piston
for engagement with the end of the nipple, connecting
the piston aperture with a passage through the nipple,
radially movable locking elements carried by the cylinder
coacting with the nipple and actuated by said piston
for compressively clutching the elements upon the nipple
whereby the pressure of the lubricant on said piston will
move the piston to forcibly compress said elements while
the lubricant is passing through said connecting parts."
In its petition for certiorari, and in argument upon
the merits, the petitioner insisted that the respondent's
commercial form of coupler was not that of the Butler
patent; that the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit had so held, and that the courts below erred in
not reaching a similar conclusion. In view of the grounds
' Stewart-Warner Corp. v. Jiffy Lubricator Co., 81 F. (2d) 786.

LINCOLN CO. v. STEWART-WARNER CORP. 549
545

()linioo of tie Court.

of our decision we find it unnecessary to pass upon this
question.
The petitioner's principal contention is that our decision in the Rogers case is controlling.' We so hold. As
has been said, the combination of elements disclosed is old
in the art. As the Circuit Court of Appeals held, a headed
nipple or fitting connected with the bearing, and to be
coupled to the conduit from the grease gun, is old and
unpatentable. A compressor or pump for propelling lubricant is old and unpatentable as such. The invention,
if any, which Butler made was an improvement in what
he styles in his specifications the "chuck" and in his claim
a "coupling member." It is not denied that multi-jawed
chucks had been used in industry and as couplers in lubricating apparatus. Butler may have devised a patentable
improvement in such a chuck in the respect that the multiple jaws in his device are closed over the nipple by the
pressure of the grease, but we think he did no more than
this. As we said of Gullborg in the Rogers case, having
hit upon this improvement he did not patent it as such
but attempted to claim it in combination with other old
elements which performed no new function in his claimed
combination. The patent is therefore void as claiming
more than the applicant invented. The mere aggregation
of a number of old parts or elements which, in the aggregation, perform or produce no new or different function or
operation than that theretofore performed or produced
by them, is not patentable invention.' And the improvement of one part of an old combination gives no right
to claim that improvement in combination with other old
'The District Court for Western Pennsylvania has so held: Stewart-Warner Corp. v. Rogers, 15 F. Supp. 410; and see Jacques v.
Universal Lubricating Systems, 22 F. Supp. 458.
Pickering v. McCullough, 104 U. S. 310; Burt v. Evory, 133 U. S.
349; Brinkerhoff v. Aloe, 146 U. S. 515; Office Specialty Mfg. Co. v.
Fenton Metallic MI g. Co., 174 U. S. 492.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

parts which perform no new function in the combination."
Though the respondent so concedes, it urges that, in the
combination of the Butler patent, the headed nipple performs a new and different function from that which it
has heretofore performed, in other combinations, in that,
when the coupler is withdrawn from the nipple, at the end
of the greasing operation,' the rounded head of the nipple
"cocks" the jaws of the coupler for the next operation.
The suggestion seems to be an afterthought. No such
function of the nipple is hinted at in the specifications
of the patent. If this were so vital an element in the
functioning of the apparatus it is strange that all mention
of it was omitted.' Moreover, the argument is unsound
since the old art includes instances where the head of a
nipple or fitting performs a similar function when the
Heald v. Rice, 104 U. S. 737, 754; Underwood v. Gerber, 149
U. S. 224, 227, 229; Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S.
286, 302; Perry v. Co-OperativeFoundry Co., 12 Fed. 436, 438; Yale
Lock Mfg. Co. v. Berkshire Nat. Bank, 17 Fed. 531, 532, 535; Troy
Laundry Machinery Co. v. Bunnell, 27 Fed. 810, 813; Gates IronWorks v.Fraser, 42 Fed. 49, affirmed 153 U. S. 332; Abbott Machine
Co. v. Bonn, 51 Fed. 223, 226; In re McNeill, 20 App. D. C. 294;
In re Ratican, 36 App. D. C. 95; Kursheedt Mfg. Co. v. Naday, 103
Fed. 948; Langan v. Warren Axe & Tool Co., 184 Fed. 720, 721;
In re Bliss, 39 App. D. C. 453; Robinson v. Tubular Woven Fabric
Co., 248 Fed. 526, 542; Troy Wagon Works Co. v. Ohio Trailer Co.,
274 Fed. 612, 621; General Electric Co. v. Ohio Brass Co., 277 Fed.
917, 924; Radio Corporationv. Lord, 28 F. (2d) 257, 260; Schiller v.
Robertson, 28 F. (2d) 301, 305; Fruehauf Trailer Co. v. Highway
Trailer Co., 54 F. (2d) 691, 709; In re Germantown Trust Co., 57
F. (2d) 365, 366; McGrath Holding Corp. v. Anzell, 58 F. (2d) 205;
Kodel Electric Co. v. Warren Clock Co., 62 F. (2d) 692, 695; Alemite
Corp. v. Lubrair Corp., 62 F. (2d) 898, 900; In re Reed, 76 F. (2d)
907, 909.
Union Edge Setter Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 530, 539; Ball & Socket
Fastener Co. v. Kraetzer, 150 U. S. 111, 116; MacColl v. Knowles
Loom Works, 95 Fed. 982; Kursheedt Mfg. Co. v. Naday, 103 Fed.
948, 950.

LINCOLN CO. v. STEWART-WARNER CORP. 551
545

Opinion of the Courit.

chuck is disengaged from it. The same argument was
unavailing in the Rogers case. It was there contended
that the pin fitting of the Gullborg patent performed a
new function in causing the beneficial operation of the
coupler at the moment of disengagement. We commented upon the matter thus: "The design of the bayonet
slots is such that, in uncoupling, the coupling member of
the gun will at first be moved slightly forward on the
pin fitting thus backing up the perforated washer in the
bore of the coupler." But there, as in the present case,
it was the peculiar and improved mechanism of the coupler
which brought about the result and not the form of the
fitting. We suppose that a headed nipple has always
been so headed in order that the jaws of the chuck may
slip over the head in the coupling and uncoupling operation. The weakness of the respondent's position is well
illustrated by what developed at argument. When interrogated as to how in the claimed combination the function of the nipple could be thought novel in any different
sense than the function of the pump, counsel replied that
the pump performed a novel function because the pressure
it generated forced forward the piston in the coupler and
caused the movable jaws to engage the fitting. If this
argument is sound, the respondent may convict every one
who sells a grease pump of contributory infringement.
The answer is the same as in the case of the headed
nipple. The function of a pump has always been to force
a fluid or a grease through a conduit. The fact that this
function of the pump is utilized in Butler's improved form
of coupler not only to convey the lubricant to the bearing
but to operate the jaws of the chuck does not alter the
function of the pump. The invention, if any, lies in the
improvement in the coupling device alone.
The courts below and the respondent rely upon Leeds
& Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

301, 325. In the Rogers case we held that authority not
controlling. Berliner disclosed an entirely novel principle; he utilized the flat disc having a smooth bottomed
groove with spiral waves in its sides not only to agitate
the needle connected to the diaphragm, but, in combination with a swinging arm, to propel the needle lengthwise the groove. In his 'combination, the disc not only
performed a new function but performed it in combination with another new element,-the swinging arm
which carried the needle.
We conclude that Butler's effort, by the use of a combination claim, to extend the monopoly of his invention
of an improved form of chuck or coupler to old parts or
elements having no new function when operated in connection with the coupler renders the claim void.
Decree reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

and

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the consideration or decision of this-case.

NEW NEGRO ALLIANCE v. SANITARY GROCERY
CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 511.

Argued March 2, 3, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

An association of Negroes, organized for the mutual improvement
of its members and the promotion of civic, educational, benevolent,
and charitable enterprises, requested a Grocery Company to adopt
a policy of employing Negro clerks, in the course of personnel
changes, in certain stores of the company patronized largely by
colored people but in which no colored clerks were employed. The
request was ignored; whereupon the organization caused a picket,
*The opinion herein is reported as amended by Order of April 25,
1938, see 304 U. S.

