ESCANABA & L. S. R. CO. v. U. S.
Syllabus.

303

Holding this view, we need not consider the contention that the statutes as applied to the transfers under
consideration deprive the respondents of their property

without due process in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

and

MR. JUSTICE REED

took no

part in the consideration or decision of these cases.
ESCANABA & LAKE SUPERIOR RAILROAD CO. v.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 415.

Argued February 4, 7, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. Whether the Interstate Commerce Commission should approve a
pooling agreement between competing carriers, under § 5 (1) of the
Interstate Commerce' Act, is a question of public interest and
welfare. Other carriers, as well as shippers and other persons,
are entitled to be heard on this question; but a carrier which
is not a party to the agreement is not a "carrier involved,"
within the meaning of the section, even if adversely affected by
it, and may not frustrate the agreement by withholding its
assent. P. 319.
2. The 'M' railroad carried iron ore from the mines to a lake
port, part of the way over its own line and thence to the port
over the line of 'E' railroad under a trackage agreement. The
'N' railroad carried such ore from the mines to the port over its
own line. Both 'N' and 'M' interchanged other freight with 'E'
at their respective connections with that line. To effect economies, 'M' and 'N' applied for and obtained from the Interstate
Commerce Commission, under § 5 (1) of the Interstate Commerce
Act, an order sanctioning an agreement between them under
which ore consigned'over either would be routed over 'N', and the
ore business be pooled between them; and under which 'M' and 'N'
were also to pool their receipts from other traffic interchanged by

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U.S.

either of them with 'E'. Held that 'E' was not a "carrier involved"
in the pooling agreement, within the meaning of the section above
mentioned, and that its assent was not necessary to the Commission's approval. Pp. 317-322.
'E' was not a carrier of the ore hauled by 'M' under the
trackage agreement; it received no part of the freight paid; issued
no bills-of-lading, and maintained no tariff for that transportation. It neither held itself out to serve in that respect nor
rendered any service to shippers of ore; and, as respects the proposed pooling of freights on the other interchanged traffic, it was
not a carrier involved in the service rendered up to the exchange
points.
21 F. Supp. 151, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree dismissing a bill to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. John S. Burchmore, with whom Mr. Clark M. Rob-

ertson was on the brief, for appellant.

Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Acting Solicitor
General Bell, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and
Messrs. Elmer B. Collins and Daniel W. Knowlton were
on the brief, for the United States and the Interstate

Commerce Commission.
Mr. C. R. Sutherland, with whom Mr. 0. W. Dynes
was on the brief, for Scandrett et al., intervening

defendants.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from the judgment of a specially constituted District Court' dismissing the appellant's bill
which prayed relief against an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission approving and authorizing a proposed pooling agreement between two other railroads.2
121 F. Supp. 151.
2 210 1. C. C. 599; 219 I. C. C. 285.

ESCANABA & L. S. R. CO. v. U. S.
315

Opinion of the Court.

The single question presented is whether the appellant is
a "carrier involved" within the meaning of § 5 (1) of the
Interstate Commerce Act.'
The appellant, hereinafter sometimes called "Escanaba," is a Michigan corporation operating a railroad
which does business in intrastate and interstate commerce. Its line extends from Escanaba, Michigan, a port
on Lake Michigan, northwesterly some sixty-three miles
to Channing, which is on the northern border of the
Menominee ore district. This district was reached in
1900, and still is served, by the lines of the Chicago and
Northwestern Railroad Company (herein denominated
"Northwestern") extending from the mines in a general
southeasterly direction to the Northwestern's ore docks at
Escanaba. The Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company (herein called "Milwaukee")
had in and prior to 1900 a line reaching the Menominee
district but the ore shipped over this line went south
to a connection with the Soo Line and thence eastward
to a destination other than Escanaba. Milwaukee and
Escanaba entered into an agreement in 1900 whereby the
former was to have trackage rights for its trains of iron
ore from Channing to Escanaba, where the Milwaukee
constructed its own ore docks for the lading of ore into
lake steamers, and -trackage rights for the return of its
empty cars from Escanaba to Channing. On the footing
of this contract Escanaba made a large investment in
roadway suitable for the accommodation of Milwaukee's
trains.
The details of the agreement are unimportant. It will
suffice to say that Milwaukee had no right to carry passengers or freight, including ore, to intermediate points
on the line of Escanaba; had no schedules for its ore
3

Act of Feb. 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 380, as amended by Transportation Act of Feb. 28, 1920, c. 91, § 407, 41 Stat. 480, U. S. C. Tit.
49, § 5 (1).

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

trains; operated them by its own personnel and power,
subject, however, to the control of the line by Escanaba's
dispatchers and signal men. Milwaukee was to pay for
the privilege a certain wheelage charge which, in no
event, was to be less than $27,000 a year whether the
total wheelage amounted to that sum or not; and was to
pay certain other amounts towards the maintenance of
Escanaba's line. A renewal of this agreement is now in
force and will so remain until January 1, 1951.
Milwaukee's docks at Escanaba have fallen into disrepair. To avoid the large expenditure required to restore them, and to retain a share of the ore transportation, Milwaukee negotiated a pooling agreement with
Northwestern under the terms Of which ore consigned
over either line from the mines to Escanaba will be routed
over Northwestern's line and use Northwestern's docks
at Escanaba and the ore -business of both lines will be
pooled on an agreed basis. Inasmuch as certain freight
other than iron ore has been interchanged by Milwaukee
with Escanaba at Channing and by Northwestern with
Escanaba at Escanaba, and, as it is believed the ore
pooling arrangement and discontinuance of Milwaukee's
ore haulage over Escanaba's tracks may cause Escanaba
to abandon the western end of its line, thus preventing
the interchange of Milwaukee and Escanaba at Channing, it is further agreed that Milwaukee and Northwestern shall pool the receipts from interchange traffic
exchanged by either of them with Escanaba, to recompense Milwaukee for possible loss of business resulting
from the ore traffic pool. The two railroads, parties to
the pooling agreement, submitted it to the Interstate
Commerce Commission for approval.4 That body held
that the proposed discontinuance of operation by Milwaukee over Escanaba's line under the trackage agreement
They were represented before the Commission by their respective
trustees appointed under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.

ESCANABA & L. S. R. CO. v. U. S.
315

Opinion of the Court.

amounted to an abandonment as defined by § 1 (18) of
the Interstate Commerce Act ' and, without the Commission's approval of the abandonment, the pooling agreement could not become effective. The Commission,
therefore, refused to pass upon it. Thereupon the parties
resubmitted the pooling agreement together with a conditional application by Milwaukee for abandonment of
its ore haulage _over Escanaba. Escanaba intervened in
the proceeding, and resisted the issue of an order of approval. A hearing was had at which not only Escanaba
but many shippers and communities on its line presented
evidence. The Commission made the findings required
by §§ 1 (18) and 5 (1) of the Act, particularly that the
proposed pooling arrangement and abandonment of the
line by Milwaukee would promote the public interest
and convenience and issued orders authorizing the proposed arrangement. Escanaba has abandoned the contention made in the District Court, and there overruled,
that the Commission's findings are not supported by any
evidence, and here attacks only the alleged error of law
of the Commission and the court below in holding that
it is not a "party involved" in the pooling agreement
within the meaning of § 5 (1), whose assent is necessary
to the approval of the Commisison.
Section 5 (1) of the original Interstate Commerce Act
in sweeping terms forbade all pooling of freights of different and competing railroads and all agreements for division of aggregate or net proceeds of their earnings or any
portion thereof. The Transportation Act, 1920, qualified
this prohibition by excepting such arrangements as
should have the specific approval of the Commission, and
that approval was thus conditioned:
"That whenever the Commission is of opinion, after
hearing upon application of any carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers or property sub5U. S. C. Tit. 49, § 1 (18).

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

ject to this Act, or upon its own initiative, that the division of their traffic or earnings, to the extent indicated
by the Commission, will be in the interest of better service to the public, or economy in operation, and will not
unduly restrain competition, the Commission shall have
authority by order to approve and authorize, if assented
to by all the carriers involved, such division of traffic or
earnings, under such rules and regulations, and for such
consideration as between such carriers and upon such
terms and conditions, as shall be found by the Commission to be just and reasonable in the premises." (Italics
supplied.)
The controversy revolves around the meaning of the
phrase "if assented to by all the carriers involved." Escanaba insists that it is a carrier involved in the proposed
agreement, and its assent is necessary to an affirmative
order of the Commission. The appellees deny that it is
such and the Commission and the District Court have
held with them. We are of bpinion that the decree of the
District Court was right and must be affirmed.
First. The amendment of § 5 (1) of the original statute
by the Transportation Act, 1920, was one of the alterations made in the Act as a result of experience gained
from unified operation of the railroads under federal control. The strict sanctions of the original Act, intended to
preserve competition between carriers, were, in a number
of instances, relaxed. Mergers and consolidations were
'authorized, pooling arrangements were to be permitted,
extensions and abandonments were made lawful and divisions of joint through rates might be adjusted, all for
the sake of economy and efficiency and the prevention of
destructive competitive practices, and all subject to the
supervision and control of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and its finding that the action proposed or ordered would be in the public interest. These amendments are to be given liberal construction in aid of the
purposes Congress had in mind. Under the new provi-

ESCANABA & L. S. R. CO. v. U. S.
315

Opinion of the Court.

sions, Milwaukee and Northwestern might have merged
or consolidated if the Commission found such a procedure
would be in the public interest. Similar considerations
would justify their proposed pooling of freight transportation. Shippers over Escanaba's lines, communities
served by it, and, indeed, shippers in communities on
distant lines and persons having no other interest than
that of the general public welfare, were entitled to be
heard before the Commission and to present whatever
proofs might tend to show that the proposed agreement
would or would not be for the public welfare. They,
however, are not "carriers involved," mentioned in § 5
(1). Escanaba had the undoubted right accorded it to
appear and to be heard on the question of the public
interest and welfare and indeed so had every carrier,
having connections with Milwaukee and Northwestern.
The question involved in the appellant's contention is
whether it or any other carrier, not actually a party to
the pooling agreement, is a "carrier involved" within the
meaning of the Act, so that it may frustrate the agreement by withholding its assent.
Second. Escanaba is not a carrier of the ore which is
hauled between Channing and Escanaba under the trackage agreement. It receives no part of the freight paid,
it issues no bills of lading, it maintains no tariffs covering
that transportation. It neither holds itself out to serve
in that respect nor renders any service to shippers of
ore; and, as respects the proposed pooling of freights on
Milwaukee's traffic, exchanged with it at Channing, and
Northwestern's traffic, exchanged with it at Escanaba, is
not a carrier involved in the service rendered up to the
exchange points, which is to be pooled. But it is said
that the word "involved" connotes something more than
a party to an agreement; that it embraces any railroad
affected by the arrangement. And, it is urged, Escanaba
will be seriously injured by the proposed arrangement, in
53383o-38---2

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

spite of the continuing obligation of Milwaukee to pay
it a minimum of $27,000 per annum until 1951.
If a carrier not a party, but adversely affected, is "involved" in the sense of § 5 (1) Escanaba's assent is a condition precedent to authorization by the Commission.
We must then determine the meaning of the phrase as
used in the statute. Aid -is afforded by the context. The
section gives the Commission authority to approve and
authorize, "if assented to by all the carriers involved, . . .
under such rules and regulations, and for such consideration as between such carriers and upon such terms and
conditions," as the Commission shall find just and reasonable. This reference to the mutual considerations to be
exchanged by "such carriers" shows that Congress meant
by the phrase "all the carriers involved," those, and those
only, who are parties to the pooling of freights and the
division of the proceeds. Escanaba, however, insists that
if the section is to be construed to require the assent of
none but the parties to the pooling agreement it is mere
surplusage. It points out that Milwaukee and Northwestern have assented and are now merely asking the
approval and authorization of the Commission. The argument, however, overlooks the fact that the Commission may authorize pooling on the application of a single
carrier or upon its own initiative. In the first case the
assent of one or more other carriers, and in the second
the assent of all the carriers is a prerequisite to its action.
It appears, therefore, that though confined to the parties
to the pool, the requirement that all carriers involved
shall assent has a proper office in the statutory scheme.
Third. In view of Escanaba's relation to the traffic involved in the proposed pool, the decision that its assent
is a prerequisite to the plan's operation would involve the
gravest inconvenience and perhaps render the provision
of § 5 (1) nugatory. It is difficult to conceive of any
pooling arrangement between two carriers which will not
affect, in a greater or less degree, other carriers who inter-

LAUF v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
315

Syllabus.

change traffic with one or the other of the pooling roads,
or with their connections. If the private interest of any
such outside carrier should move it to refuse its assent to
the arrangement it could, in the view urged by the appellant, veto the proposal although, on the whole and in
the long view, the consummation of the plan might
greatly enhance the economies of operation of large and
important carriers and so promote the public interest.
We cannot believe that every carrier, in such sense affected
by a proposed pool to which it is not a party, was intended
to have a status different from, and perhaps at war with,
the interest of the general public in the efficient and economical operation of the railroads envisaged by the Transportation Act.
We conclude that not only the words of the statute but
the obvious policy and intent underlying its provisions
require an affirmance of the judgment of the District
Court.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
LAUF ET AL. v. E. G. SHINNER & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 293.

Argued January 12, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

1. An unincorporated labor union demanded of an employer that
he require all his employees, none of whom belonged to the union,
on pain of dismissal, to join it and make it their bargaining agent.
The employees, though left free in the matter by the employer,
refused .to join, having an organization of their own. The employer having rejected the demand, the members of the union, for
the purpose of coercing him and in a conspiracy to destroy his

business if he refused to yield, caused false and misleading signs
to be placed before his markets; caused persons who were not his

