54

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING & DRY DOCK
CO. v. SCHAUFFLER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 305. Argued January 5, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.
1. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp. v. Myers, ante, p. 41, followed.
P. 57.
2. In a suit in equity to enjoin the holding of a hearing upon a
complaint issued by the National Labor Relations Board, allegations of the bill that interstate or foreign commerce is not involved
are conclusions of law, and are not admitted by a motion to dismiss. P. 57.
3. The National Labor Relations Act does not vest in the Labor
Board exclusive power to determine its own jurisdiction. It confers upon the Board exclusive initial power to make the investigation, but provides for judicial review by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. P. 57.
4. There is no basis in the Act for the contention that the District
Court may entertain a suit to prevent the Board from conducting
a public investigation under § 10 if the employer claims that it is
not engaged in interstate or foreign commerce. P. 58.
5. A cause in which equitable relief was sought to prevent injury
which allegedly would result from the holding of a hearing by the
Labor Board can not be disposed of as moot where, though the
hearing has in the meantime been held, the trial examiner has
not yet made his report to the Board, the Board has made no
decision, and there is thus a possibility of further proceedings.
P. 58.
91 F. (2d) 730, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 673, to review a decree affirming
the dismissal of a bill which sought to restrain officials
of the National Labor Relations Board from holding a
*hearing upon a complaint issued against the shipbuilding
company.
Messrs. H. H. Rumble and Fred H. Skinner for petitioner.

NEWPORT NEWS CO. v. SCHAUFFLER.

55

Opinion of the Court.

54

Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, A. H. Feller, and
Charles Fahy were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company is a Virginia corporation engaged in the construction, overhaul and repair of ships at its plant in that
State. In June, 1937, the Industrial Union of Marine
and Shipbuilding Workers of America filed with the National Labor Relations Board the charge that the Company was "dominating and interfering with the employees' right of self organization by dominating, interfering
with and lending financial support to a so-called labor
organization" at said plant known as "Representation of
Employees"; that the Company had discharged and refused to reinstate several employees at the plant "because they joined and assisted a labor organization of
their own choosing and engaged in concerted activities
with fellow employees for collective bargaining and other
mutual aid and protection"; and that by so doing the
Company was engaged in unfair labor practices within
the meaning of § 8, subsections (1), (2) and (3) of the
National Labor Relations Act. Thereupon, the Board,
through its Regional Director for the 5th Region, Bennett F. Schauffler, filed a complaint against the Company
and gave notice of a hearing pursuant to § 10 (b) of the
Act.
The Company did not answer the complaint. Before
the date assigned for the hearing, it brought, in the federal court for eastern Virginia, this suit, in which it sought
to enjoin Schauffler, Jacob Blum, the Regional Attorney
for the 5th Region, both citizens of Maryland, and the
Trial Examiner designated or to be designated, from
holding the hearing and taking further proceedings un-

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

der the Act. There were prayers for both an interlocutory and a final injunction and for a declaratory judgment that the Act as applied to the Company's business
and its relations to its employees is unconstitutional. As
the basis for this relief it alleged facts similar to those
set forth in the bill of the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, Ltd., in No. 181, ante, p. 41. It alleged, specifically, that neither the Company's business nor its
relations with its employees affected interstate or foreign commerce; that it had not engaged in any unfair
labor practice; and that it would be irreparably damaged by the holding of the hearing of the Board and the
taking of any action in connection therewith. Among
the elements of irreparable injury alleged were that the
Company would be held up to scorn as a violator of a
law of the United States and so would incur for as long
as the proceedings lasted the odium and ill will of the
public and of its own employees; that its officials would
be compelled to produce evidence of a confidential nature; and that the pendency and holding of the Board's
proceedings, regardless of their outcome, would impede
the Company in exercising its right to bargain freely with
its employees.
The case was heard by the District Court upon the
plaintiff's application for a temporary injunction and the
defendants' motion that the bill be dismissed on the
ground, among others, that the Company had failed to
exhaust its administrative remedies and that granting the
relief prayed would be an usurpation of the authority
exclusively -vested by the Act in the Court of Appeals.
The court denied the temporary injunction and dismissed
the bill on the ground that the Company had "a plain,
adequate and exclusive remedy under the terms of the
Act itself, that no irreparable damage is threatened, and
that this [the District] Court has no jurisdiction of the
controversy presented by the bill." That decree was af-

NEWPORT NEWS CO. v. SCHAUFFLER.

57

Opinion of the Court.

54

firmed by the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit,
which held that the Company "has an adequate remedy
under the statute and may not apply for relief in equity
until it has exhausted the administrative remedy there
provided." 91 F. (2d) 730.
We granted certiorari because of conflict with Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp. v. Myers, 89 F. (2d) 1000, in
which the facts are substantially similar and the issues
the same. That case is reversed by our opinion delivered
this day in No. 181. For the reasons there stated, we
affirm the decree herein, adding only the following.
First. The Company insists that since the case was
heard on motion to dismiss the bill which alleges that the
Company is not engaged in interstate or foreign commerce and its relations to its employees do not affect such
commerce, these allegations must be accepted as true.
The motion admits as facts allegations describing the
manner in which the business is carried on, but not legal
conclusions from those facts. The allegations that interstate or foreign commerce is not involved are conclusions
of law.'
Second. The Company urges that, since the Board can
have jurisdiction only over businesses engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, since the Company denies that
it is so engaged, and the Federal Constitution does not
permit vesting in an administrative body exclusive power
to determine its own jurisdiction, the District Court must
have power to pass upon that issue. The Act does not
purport to leave the determination wholly to the Board.
It confers upon the Board exclusive initial power to make
the investigation, but provides for judicial review by the
1Compare

Pennie v. Reis, 132 U. S. 464, 469-470; Pierce Oil

Corp. v. Hope, 248 U. S. 498, 500; Nortz v. United States, 294 U. S.
317, 324-325; Pacific States Box & Basket Co. v. White, 296 U. S.
176, 184-185.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Circuit Court of Appeals. 2 As the only question here involved is the power of the Board to make the investigation, we have no occasion to consider the extent of the
review provided.
It is suggested that while the Board has the right and
duty to make, under § 5 of the Act, a preliminary informal
inquiry before public action, for the purpose of informing
itself whether a particular concern is subject to its authority, the District Court may entertain a suit to prevent
the Board from conducting a public investigation under
§ 10 if the concern claims that it is riot engaged in interstate or foreign commerce. The limitation suggested
would, in large measure, defeat the purpose of the legislation. There is no basis in the Act for such a contention.
Third. The Circuit Court of Appeals having refused
to grant an injunction staying the action by the Board
pending the contemplated appeal, application for a stay
was made to Mr. Justice Butler of this Court, after filing
of the petition for a writ of certiorari. It has been called
to our attention that, upon his denial of that application,
the hearing was held before the trial examiner of the
Board from August 30 to September 8, 1937, and has
apparently been closed. To the extent that relief was
sought to prevent the injury resulting from a hearing, the
cause appears to be moot. But the cause cannot be disposed of as moot, as the trial examiner has not yet made
his report to the Board; the Board has made no decision;
and thus there is a possibility of further proceedings.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
2§

10 (a), (e), (f).

See National Labor Relations Board v. Jones

& Laughlin Steel Co., 301 U. S. 1, 47; Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., ante, p. 41.

