STATE FARM INS. CO. v. COUGHRAN.

485

Syllabus.

STATIE FARI MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INS. CO. v.
COUGIIRAN.
CERTIORARI TO TIlE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 519.

Argued March 4, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

1. Upon appeal in a law case tried without a jury, the Circuit Court
of Appeals determines whether the findings support the judgment,
but can not review the evidence. P. 487.
2. An automobile insurance policy provided that the insurance company should not be liable unless the car at the time of accident
was being "operated" by the insured, his paid driver, members of
his immediate family, or persons acting under his direction, nor
if it was being '"driven or operated" by any person violating any
law as to age or driving license. There was a finding that the
accident in question occurred while the car was being operated,
with the permission of assured, by his wife, and was caused by her
negligence. There was another finding that it occurred while it
was being jointly operated by the wife and, with her permission
but contrary to the orders of the husband, by a 13 year old girl,
unlicensed and unlicensable under the law of California, who at the
time of the accident was physically actuating instrumentalities of
the automobile other than the means of direction; and that the
proximate cause of the collision was the act of the wife in seizing
the steering wheel at and immediately preceding the moment of
impact. Held:
(1) That the findings are not in conflict; the first refers to the
conduct of the wife as the one in authority; the second details what
really took place at moment of collision. P. 491.
One may "operate" an automobile singly or jointly with another.
(2) The risk was not within the policy. P. 487.
3. A person injured by an automobile in charge of the assured's wife,
recovered judgment against both of them in an action defended
by the husband's insurer under a non-waiver agreement; and,
failing to collect it, sued the insurer. Held that proof that the
machine, at the time of the accident, was being operated by the
wife and a child, jointly, contrary to the husband's orders and
contrary to law, was available as a defense under the policy, notwithstanding the insurer's failure to disclose it at the other trial.
P. 492.
92 F. 2d 239, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opiiiion of the Court.

303 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 302 IT. S. 679, to rcview the affirniance of
a judgment recovered in an action on a policy of insurance.

Mr. Joseph A. Spray, with whom Mr. Sydney L. Grahiam was on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Raymond G. Stanbury, with whom Mr. John F.
Gilbert was on the brief, for respondent.
M

. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner's policy insured one R. 0. Anthony, the
owner, against liability for injuries caused by a designated
automobile. As the result of alleged negligent and unlawful action by the assured's wife the car collided with a
truck June 16, 1934. Respondent Coughran suffered injuries for which he recovered judgment-against Anthony,
also against his wife. Both were insolvent; a writ of execution against them was returned unsatisfied.
Thereupon respondent commenced this suit to recover
of petitioner the amount of his unpaid judgment. He
claimed this right under the policy and statute. Answering, the company exhibited the policy and denied liability. As a first separate defense it alleged that Anthony
and his wife had not cornplied with certain terms of the
contract. As a second"That said accident was an accident for which the defendant under the terms and conditions of said policy
is not liable in that: At the time and place of the accident
the automobile of the insured was being driven and operated by a person who was not the paid driver of the insured, nor a member of his immediate family, nor a
person acting under the direction of the assured. This
defendant alleges that the said automobile at the time
of the accident was being driven and operated by a person in violation of the laws of the State of California
as to age and as to driver's license and further alleges

STATE FARM INS. CO. v. COUGIIRAN.
485

487

Opinion of the Court.

that the driver of said car was a minor, being a female
of the age of approximately 13 years."
There were other separate defenses.
A jury having been waived, the cause went to the
court on the pleadings and evidence. It made findings of
fact with conclusion of law and entered judgment for
Coughran. Neither side. requested other or different
findings.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought findings III and
XII were inconsistent "and to elucidate the truth, a review of the testimony is required." After such review it
ruled that the findings so elucidated were adequate and
required affirmation of the challenged judgment. One
judge thought otherwise and presented a separate opinion.
Under applicable statutes and repeated rulings here,
the matter open for consideration upon the appeal was
whether the findings of the trial court supported its judgment. To review the evidence was beyond the competency of the court. U. S. C. Title 28, ยง ยง 773, 875; Walnut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683, 688; Stanley v. Supervisors
of Albany, 121 U. S. 535, 547; Law v. United States, 266
U. S. 494, 496.
Two persons were in the insured automobile when the
accident occurred. Nancy Leidendeker, a girl of 13 without license to drive, occupied the driver's seat. By her
side sat Helen B. Anthony, wife of the assured, an adult
holding a driver's license.
The principal point upon which the petitioner now relies is that as the accident . occurred when the car was
being driven and operated by the young girl contrary to
the owner's commands and in violation of California statutes, the policy did not cover his liability.
The policy (incorporated in the findings) under the
heading "Terms and Conditions Forming a Part of This
Policy," provides"(1) Risks Not Assumed by This Company. The
Company shall not be liable and no liability or obligation

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

:303 U. S.

of any kind shall attach to the Company for losses or damage: . . . (A) . . . (D) Unless the said automobile is
being operated by the Assured, his paid driver, members
of his immediate family, or persons acting under the direction of the Assured; (E) Caused while the said automobile is being driven or operated by any person whatsoever
either under the influence of liquor or drugs or violating.
any law or ordinance as to age or driving license; (F) . ".."
Applicable sections of the California Vehicle Act,Stats. 1923, pp. 518, 519, 536; Stats, 1927, p. 1427; Stats.
1931, p. 2108-follow:
"Section 1. The following words and phrases used in
this act shall have the meanings here ascribed to them."
"Sec. 18. 'Operator.' Every person who drives, operates or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
upon a public highway."
"Sec. 76. Unlawful to employ unlicensed chauffeur.
No person shall employ for hire as a chauffeur of a motor
vehicle, any person not licensed as in this act provided.
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor
vehicle owned by him or under his control, to be driven by
any person who has no legal right to do so or in violation
of the provisions of this act."
"Sec. 58. Operators and chauffeurs must be licensed.
"(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle upon any public highway in this state, whether
as an operator or a chauffeur, unless such person has been
licensed as an operator or chauffeur; except such persons
as are expressly exempted under this act.", [Exception
not applicable here.]
"See. 64. What persons shall not be licensed as operators or chauffeurs.
"(a) An operator's license shall not be issued to any
person under the j.ge of sixteen years and no chauffeur's
license shall be issued to any person unrter the age of

STATE FARM INS. CO. v. COUGHRAN.
485

489

Opinion of Ihe ('ourt.

eighteen years, provided that an operator's license may be
issued to any minor over tlie age of fourteen years and less
than sixteen years of age upon special application and
statement of reasons by the parent or guardian of such
minor."
Especially pertinent findings by the trial court follow:
"II. The court finds that on or about the 16th day of
June, 1934, and while said policy was in full force and
effect, one Helen B. Anthony operated the Chevrolet automobile referred to in and covered by the said policy of
insurance with the permission and consent of the assured,
R. 0. Anthony, and operated the same negligently so as
proximately to cause an accident and injury to the person
and property of the plaintiff to his damage in the reasonable sum of Five Thousand Ninety-two and 55/100
Dollars ($5092.55)."
"IX. The court finds that it is true that the defendant,
prior to the trial of the action in the state court entered
into the non-waiver agreement received in evidence in this
action with the assured, R. 0. Anthony, and with Helen B.
Anthony. That the said non-waiver agreement was executed just prior to the commencement of the trial of the
state court action.. That the plaintiff was not a party to
that agreement and had no knowledge of any facts referred
to therein and was not in privity with any of the defendants in the state court action and that so far as the conduct
of the defendant affects the plaintiff in this action, the
defendant managed and conducted the defense in the state
court."
"XII. With regard to the second separate defense of
defendant, the court finds that the said automobile at
the time of the impact that resulted in the injury to the
plaintiff was being jointly operated by Helen B. Anthony
and Nancy Leidendeker; that said Helen B. Anthony
was a member of the assured's immediate family and was
an adult person over the age of tventy-one (21) years

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

who was licensed by the State of California to drive an
automobile; and that said Nancy Leidendeker was a
minor and not permitted under the applicable laws to
operate a motor vehicle in the State of California; that
the assured had forbidden said minor Nancy Leidendeker
to drive any motor vehicle or automobile of which he
was the owner or which he controlled; and that the action
of said Nancy Leidendeker on the day of the accident
and at the time of the impact involved in this action were
in disobedience of and contrary to the commands, orders
and instructions of the assured, R. 0. Anthony; that at
the time of the accident, insofar as the propulsion of the
vehicle was concerned, other than the means of direction,
all instrumentalities of said automobile were being physically actuated by said minor Nancy Leidendeker, with
the acquiescence and knowledge of Helen B. Anthony and
without any knowledge, acquiescence or consent on the
part of the assured, R. 0. Anthony; that the proximate
and direct cause of the collision between the insured automobile and a truck owned by San Pedro Commercial
Company was the act of Helen B. Anthony in seizing the
steering wheel of the automobile at and immediately preceding the moment of impact and collision."
"XVI. That prior to the commencement of the trial
of the said State court action the defendant had full
knowledge of all the facts and circumstances concerning
the presence of the said Nancy Leidendeker in the driver's
seat or in a part of said seat, and all other facts relied on
by the defendant as constituting a concealment and a
defense of the case at bar, but that the defendant did not
reveal said facts to the plaintiff or his counsel, and that
plaintiff and his counsel had no knowledge that the said
Nancy Leidendeker occupied any part of the driver's seat
until said trial was completed."
"XVII. The court finds that prior to the collision between the insured automobile and a truck owned by the

STATE FARM INS. CO. v. COUGIJRAN.
485

491

Opinion of the Court.

San Pedro Commercial Company, Helen B. Anthony
seized the steering wheel of the insured automobile and
steered the same to the right, proximately causing the
same to come into collision with the said truck and proximately causing the same to turn to its right, proximately
causing the collision of plaintiff's car and the injuries and
damages suffered by him."
When read together no material conflict exists between
findings III and XII; there is no real difficulty in understanding the circumstances to which they are addressed.
The first contains statements concerning the conduct of
one in authority; the second describes in detail what really
took place at the moment of collision. The word "operate" has varying meanings according to the context. Webster's New International Dictionary. One may operate
singly with his own hands, or jointly with another, or
through one or more agents.
From the findings it appears that when the accident
occurred the automobile was not being operated by the
assured, his paid driver, a member of his immediate family
or a person acting under his direction, within fair intendment of the policy. Contrary to the owner's commands
"insofar as the propulsion of the vehicle was concerned,
other than the means of direction, all instrumentalities
of said automobile were being physically actuated by said
minor" who was inhibited by the statutes from driving
or operating a motor vehicle within the State.
Just before the accident, Mrs. Anthony seized the steering wheel and by negligent manipulation of this caused
the collision.
If, as found, the automobile was being jointly operated
by the wife and the girl the risk was not within the policy.
The latter was forbidden by law to operate or drive jointly
or singly. If the wife was in control the statute forbade
her to permit driving by the girl. In any view, when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of tho Court..

J03 U.S.

collision occurred the car was being driven or operated
in violation of the statutes.
In support of his position respondent relies heavily
upon O'Connell v. N. J. Fidelity Ins. Co., 201 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 117; 193 N. Y. S. 911; and Williams v. Nelson,
228 Mass. 191; 117 N. E. 189. These causes, we think,
are not in point. They were decided upon facts and circumstances materially different from those here disclosed.
Respondent further submits that petitioner is precluded from any inquiry concerning who actually was
driving the car when the accident occurred. He says the
entire sequence of events surrounding Nancy Leidendeker
was highly material and should have been litigated in the
original tort action brought by Coughran against the Anthonys, and based solely upon permissive use. Also, if
the facts then known by petitioner had been there revealed, it would have become apparent that the girl
lacked permission to drive and that the wife exceeded the
terms of her authorization; and that by suppressing
these facts petitioner exposed the assured to a liability
which otherwise might not have been imposed.
The judgment roll of the tort action is not before us;
we are limited to the findings. That action was defended
by the petitioner under a non-waiver agreement; the
complaint alleged damages from negligence of the wife
as driver and operator imputed to the husband. Defenses
now presented by the Insurance Company against liability under the policy were not involved. Joint driving
by Mrs. Anthony and the girl was not subject to inquiry.
Moreover, in the circumstances we-may not conclude
that respondent should prevail because petitioner failed
to present facts in the tort action which he says if then
presented might have defeated the very judgment upon
which he now relies to support his claim.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. COMM'R.
485

493

Syllabus.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. The cause will be remanded to the District
Court with instructions to enter judgment for the Insurance Company, petitioner here.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

GUARANTY TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 301. Argued January 12, 13, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.
A partnership whose fiscal year expired July 31, 1933, was dissolved
by the death of a member in December, 1933. Decedent had kept
his books on the cash receipts and disbursements basis and filed his
returns for income tax for each calendar year on that basis. The
partnership kept its books on a like basis, but made its returns for
a fiscal year ending July 31. Upon a partnership accounting, his
share of the profits from August 1 to date of his death was ascertained, and in the following January and February was paid to the
executor. Held, that the decedent's taxable income for the calendar year 1933 includes his share of partnership profits from the
beginning of the partnership fiscal year on Aug. 1, 1933, to the date
of his death in the same year, in addition to his share of the
partnership profits for its fiscal year ending July 31. Rev. Act
1932, ยง 182 (a). P. 495.
89 F. 2d 692, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 670, to review a judgment of the
court below reversing an order of the Board of Tax Appeals. The Board's order, 34 B. T. A. 384, set aside a
deficiency assessment.

