OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

303 U. S.

ferent view, it is disapproved. See Helvering v. Mountain ProducersCorp., post, p.' 376.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals with respect to petitioner's income from the lease is affirmed.
Judgment in No. 387 reversed; in
No. 388 affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in the result.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

took no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. O'DONNELL.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH

No. 406.

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 9, 10, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.

A shareholder in a corporation owning oil properties has no interest
in the oil and gas in place-no capital investment-which will
entitle him to an allowance for depletion under Revenue Aft of
1926, §§ 204 (c) (2), 214 (a) (9); nor, upon sale of his shares
to one who acquires the wells from the corporation, does he
acquire such depletable interest through the vendee's covenant
te. pay him a portion of the net profits from development and
operation of the properties. P. -.
90 F. 2d 907, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 676, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 32 B. T. A. 1277.
which overruled a deficiency income tax assessment.

Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and-A. F. Prescott Were on the brief,
for petitioner.

Mr. A. Calder Mackay, with whom Mr. Thomas R.
Dempsey was on the brief, for resppndent..

HELVERING v. O'DONNELL.
370

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Respondent, Thomas A. O'Donnell, owned one-third
of the capital stock of the San Gabriel Petroleum Company. By contract of January 9, 1918, he sold this
stock to the Petroleum Midway Company, Ltd. As consideration, the Midway Company agreed to pay to
respondent one-third of the net profits from the development and operation of the oil and gas properties then
owned by the San Gabriel Company and which the Midway Company agreed to acquire. That acquisition was
made, the properties thus acquired were developed and
operated, and one-third of the net profits thus derived
were paid to respondent to August 4, 1926. With respect to such payments in the years 1925 and 1926, respondent claimed deduction for depletion, which the
Board of Tax Appeals allowed, overruling the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. 32 B. T. A. 1277. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the Board.
90 F. (2d) 907. We granted certiorari. See Helvering
v. Bankline Oil Co., ante, p. 362.
The question is whether respondent had an interest,
that is, a capital investment, in the oil and gas in place.
Revenue Act of 1926, § 204 (c) (2); § 214 (a) (9). Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S. 551, 557; Helvering v. Twin
Bell Syndicate, 293 U. S. 312, 321; Thomas v. Perkins,
301 U. S. 655, 661; Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., supra.
As a mere owner of shares in the San Gabriel Company,
respondent had no such interest. Treasury Regulations
No. 69, Art. 201. The ownership of the oil and gas properties was in the corporation. When the Midway Company acquired these properties from the San Gabriel
Company and operated them, the Midway Company became the owner of the oil and gas produced. It was the
owner of the gross proceeds or income upon which the
statutory allowance for depletion was to be computed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

Helvering v. Twin Bell Syndicate, supra. The agreement to pay respondent one-third of the net profits
derived from the development and operation of the properties was a personal covenant and did not purport to
grant respondent an interest in the properties themselves.
If there were no net profits, nothing would be payable to
him. No trust was declared by which respondent could
claim an equitable interest in the res. As consideration
for the sale of his stock in the San Gabriel Company respondent bargained for and obtained an economic advantage from the Midway Company's operations but that
advantage or profit did not constitute a depletable interest in the oil,and gas in place. Palmer v. Bender, supra;
Helvering v. Bankline Oil Co., supra.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

took

no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.
IIELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. ELBE OIL LAND DEVELOPMENT
CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 446.

Argued February 10, 1938.-Decided March 7, 1938.

The taxpayer sold all of its interest in certain oil and gas properties
in consideration of cash down 'and deferred payments in several
stated amounts, the agreement further providing that, when the
vendee had been reimbursed for expenditures in acquisition, development and operation, the taxpayer should receive one-third
of the net profits of production and operation of the properties.
Held:

