OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

IHELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE. v. THERRELL.*
(ERTIORARI

TO TIE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12S.

Argued December 17, 1937.-Decided February 28, 1938.

The compensation received (1) by a liquidator appointed by the
State Comptroller to wind up insolvent banks pursuant to Florida
statutes; (2) by legal counsel employed by the Insurance Department of New York for services in liquidating insolvent insurance companies taken over by the state Superintendent of
Insurance, pursuant to New York statutes; (3) by an attorney
in the Department of Justice of Pennsylvania assigned by the
Attorney General for legal work relating to winding tip of insolvent
banks taken over by the state Secretary of Banking pursuant
to Pennsylvania statutes. Held (p. 222) subject to income taxation by the Federal Government, it appearing:
1. That the compensation in each instance was paid from the
assets of the liquidating corporation, not from funds belonging
to the State;
2. That no one of the taxpayers was an officer of the State in
the strict sense of that term;
3. That the businesses about which they were employed were
not utilized by the States in the discharge of their essential governmental duties;
4. That the corporations wvere private enterprises, and their
funds private property.
88 F. (2d) 869, and Id. 873, reversed.
89 id. 699, affirmed.
92 id. 150, reversed.
* Together with No. 129, Helvering, Commissioner of Interrtal
Revenue, v. Tunnicliffe, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit; No. 287, McLoughlin v. Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit; and No. 597, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Freedman, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit.

1ELVERING
218

2'.

TIlE1Ii1ELL.

Opinioni of the Court.

CERTOlRARI to review decisions of Circuit Courts of
Appeals in four cases on appeals from decisions of the
Board of Tax Appeals sustaining income tax assessments.
In Nos. 128, 129 and 597 (34 B. T. A. 956) the Board's
ruling was reversed by the lower court; in No. 287, the
Board's ruling, 34 B. T. A. 963, was affirmed.

Solicitor General Reed, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Morris, and Messrs. Sewall Key, Berryman
Green, and Warner TV. Gardner were on the briefs, for
the Commissioner.
Mr. Harry M. Voorhis for respondent in Nos. 128 and
129. Mr. H. M. Hampton was on the brief with Mr.
Voorhis in No. 129.
Mr. Bernhard Knollenberg, with whom Messrs. Jesse
Hoyt and Alfred C. Bennett were on the brief, for respondent in No. 287.
Mr. John TV. Townsend for respondent in No. 597.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed
by Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General,
Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, John F. X. McGohey,
Colin McLennan, and John C. Crary, Assistant Attorneys
General, of New York, on behalf of that State, in support of petitioner in No. 287; and by Mr. Herbert Pope,
on behalf of Charles C. Stilwell, in support of the respondent in No. 597.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Has tlfe Federal Government power to tax compensation paid to attorneys and others out of corporate assets
for necessary services rendered about the liquidation of

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

)O03 U. S.

an insolvent corporation by a state officer proceeding as
required by her statutes?
The opinions below state the essential facts--not in
dispute; make adequate references to the relevant statutory provisions; and cite numerous authorities.
No. 128.
Under Florida statutes when a bank becomes insolvent
"The State Comptroller may appoint a liquidator [subject to dismissal] to take charge of the assets and affairs
of such bank . . . [who,] under the direction and supervision of the Comptroller, shall take possession of the
books and records and assets of every description . . .
and in his name shall sue for and collect all debts and
claims belonging to it, and upon the order of the court
of competent jurisdiction may sell or compound all bad
or doubtful debts and on like order may sell all real and
personal property . . . and sue for and enforce the individual liability of the stockholders." He shall "pay all
money received by him to the State Treasurer to be held
as a special deposit . . . shall make quarterly reports,
or when called upon, to the Comptroller." The appointment must follow notice and be confirmed by the Circuit
Court. Liquidation expenses are payable out of the corporate funds held by the Treasurer. "The compensation
of the liquidator shall be fixed by the Comptroller and
shall be based upon the amount of work actually and
necessarily performed, and shall in no case exceed five
per cent of the cash collected."
Respondent Therrell, liquidator for several banks, devoted substantially all his time to the work. He held no
commission from the Governor, took no oath of office but
was formally appointed by the Comptroller and gave
bond. His compensation, for 1931 and 1932, paid from
corporate assets, was assessed by the Commissioner for
federal income taxes. The Board of Tax Appeals' approved; but the Circuit Court of Appeals found immun-

HELVERING v. THERRELL.
218

221'

Opinion of the Court.

ity under the Federal Constitution. Therrell v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 88 F. (2d) 869.

No. 129.
Respondent Tunnicliffe, liquidator of insolvent banks
appointed by the Comptroller of Florida, was assessed
for federal income taxes upon the sums received for services during 1931 and 1932. The Board of Tax Appeals
approved; the Circuit Court of Appeals ruled otherwise
upon its opinion in No. 128. Tunnicliffe v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 88 F. (2d) 873.

Both causes

present the same points.
No. 287.
Petitiofier McLoughlin was employed by the Insurance
Department of New York as legal counsel in the Liquidation Bureau and received for services during 1932,
$5,125.00. This bureau is in charge of a Deputy Superintendent of Insurance a civil service employe whose
salary is paid by the State. It employs many personssuperintendents, attorneys, bookkeepers, stenographers,
adjusters, accountants, etc.
Under the statuts the Superintendent may apply to
the court for an order to take over the assets of an insolvent insurance company and liquidate its affairs. When
this issues the corporate charter is dissolved and the Superintendent must proceed to collect assets, adjust claims,
etc. He determined petitioner's compensation and
caused it to be paid from assets of the several companies
in liquidation according to the time devoted to each.
The Commissioner assessed this compensation for federal income tax; the Board of Tax Appeals approved.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, and definitely held
it was not exempted by the Federal Constitution. McLoughlin v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, "89 F.

(2d) 699.
No.597.
Freedman, employed as an attorney in Pennsylvania's
Department of Justice, received annual salary of

OCTOBER TERM. 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

$3.000.00. The Attorney General has power to appoint
attorneys to represent any department, board or comimission of the State and fix their compensation. The Secretary of Banking has broad powers over banks. When
one becomes unsound he may, after notice and hearing
and with the Attorney General's consent, take possession
and wind up its affairs. All necessary expenses, including
compensation of attorneys, special deputies, assistants
and others employed about the proceedings. are paid from
funds of the corporation.
During 1932 the respondent was assigned for legal work
relating to closed banks and was paid by the Secretary of
Banking out of their funds. The Commissioner assessed
the sum so received for federal income tax. The Board
of Tax Appeals approve(d; the Circuit Court of Appeals
declared the salary exempt. Freedman v. Corninissioner
of Internal Revenue, 92 F. (2d) 150.
What limitations does the Federal Constitution impose
upon the United States in respect of taxing instrumentalities and agencies employed by a State and, conversely,
how far does it inhibit the States from taxing instrumentalities and agencies utilized by the United States,
are questions often considered here. McCulloch v. Maryland (1819), 4 Wheat. 316; Weston v. Charleston (1829),
2 Pet. 449; Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County,.
16 Pet. 435; Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71; Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 556; South Carolinav. United.
States, 199 U. S. 437, 457; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U. S. 514; indian. Motocycle Co. v. United States,
283 U. S. 570; Burnet v. Jergins Trust, 288 U. S. 508, 516;
Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 368; Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S. 214; Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401; Brush
v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 352.

HELVERING v. THERRELL.
218
T

Opinion of the Court.

he Constitution contemplates a national government
free to use its delegated powers; also state governments
capable of exercising their essential reserved powers;
both operate within the same territorial limits; consequently the Constitution itself, either by word or necessary inference, makes adequate provision for preventing
conflict between them.
Among the inferences which derive necessarily from
the Constitution are these: No State may tax appropriate means which the United States may employ for
exercising their delegated powers; the United States may
not tax instrumentalities which a State may employ in
the discharge of her essential governmental duties-that
is those duties which the framers intended each member
of the Union would assume in order adequately to func-.
tion under the form of government guaranteed by the
Constitution.
By definition precisely to delimit "delegated powers"
or "essential governmental duties" is not possible. Controversies involving these terms must be decided as they
arise, upon consideration of all the relevant circumstances. Notwithstanding discordant views which have
sometimes arisen because of varying emphasis given to
one or another of such circumstances, it is now settled
doctrine that the inferred exemption from federal taxation does not extend to every instrumentality which a
State may see fit to employ. Exemption depends upon
the nature of the undertaking; it is cabined by the reason which underlies the inference.
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, supra, sustained a tax laid by
the Federal Government upon notes issued by state
banks, notwithstanding the view entertained by two Justices that it amounted to "taxation of the powers and
faculties of the state governments, which are essential
to their sovereignty, and to the efficient and independ-

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

ent management and administration of their internal
affairs."
South Carolinav. United States, supra, gave occasion
for much consideration of the Federal Government's
power to tax instrumentalities utilized by a- State. It
ruled, against a stout dissent, that although South Carolina had the right to control the sale of liquors through
the dispensary system, nevertheless Congress could tax
the dispensers who acted as agents of the State in making sales. "Looking, therefore, at the Constitution in
the light of the conditions surrounding at th.e time of its
adoption, it is obvious that the framers in granting full
power over license taxes to the National Government
meant that that power should be complete, and never
thought that the States by extending their functions
could practically destroy it."
Burnet v. Jergins Trust, supra, upheld a federal tax
upon the receipts by the lessee of oil lands which belonged
to the City of Long Beach, California. "The subject of
the tax is so remote from any governmental function as
to render the effect of the exaction inconsiderable as respects the activities of the city."
In Ohio v. Helvering, supra, we held that the agencies
and operations of the State of Ohio in the conduct of its
Department of Liquor Control were subject to excise
taxes prescribed by Congress. "Whenever a State engages in a business of a private nature it exercises nongovernmental functions and the business, though conducted by the State, is not immune from the exercise of
the power of taxation which the Constitution vests in
the Congress."
Helvering v. Powers, supra, ruled that the compensation of members of the Board of Trustees of the Boston
Elevated Railway Company was subject to the federal
income tax notwithstanding they were appointed by the

HELVERING v. THERRELL.
218

Opinion of the Court.

Governor of the State, confirmed by the Council, and
endowed with large powers to regulate and fix fares, etc.
"The fact that the State has power to undertake such
enterprises, and that they are undertaken for what the
State conceives to be the public benefit, does not establish immunity."
The cases last referred to strikingly illustrate the outcome of efforts here to apply the recognized doctrine in
respect of taxing State agencies. According to "hem and
others of like nature due weight, we are unable to conclude that the Commissioner erred in making any one of
the assessments involved in the four cases presently before us. He gave proper application to the rule which
we must recognize as established. The compensation of
the taxpayers was paid from corporate assets-not from
funds belonging to the State. No one of them was an
officer of the State in the strict sense of that term. The
business about which they were employed was not one
utilized by the State in the discharge of her essential governmental duties. The corporations in liquidation were
private enterprises; their funds were the property of private individuals.
It follows that the judgments in Nos. 128, 129 and 597
must be reversed; the judgment in No. 287 must be
affirmed.
Nos. 128, 129, and 597, reversed.
No. 287 affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZo and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

Z3383*-S------15

