ADAM v. SAENGER.
Syllabus.

ADAM v. SAENGER
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

COURT

OF

CIVIL

ET AL.
APPEALS

FOR

THE

NINTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 197.

Argued January 6, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

1. Matter of fact or of law upon which the jurisdiction of a state
court to render a judgment depended, but which was not litigated in that court, is matter for adjudication by the court of
another State in an action on the judgment. P. 62.
2. Upon an appeal from the judgment of a state court in a suit
upon a judgment of another State, this Court takes judicial notice
of the law of the latter State to the same extent as such notice is
taken by the court appealed from. P. 63.
3. According to Texas law the legal effect of a judgment of another
State, on which suit is brought, is to be determined by the court,
not the jury. But a suitor who asserts that the effect is different
from that of a similar judgment of the courts of Texas is required
to allege specifically and prove as a matter of fact the particular
law or usage on which he relies to establish the difference; and,
on demurrer, only the law or usage specifically alleged will be
considered in determining whether the law of the other State
differs from that of Texas. P. 63.
4. A, being sued by B, a resident of Texas, in a court of general
jurisdiction in California, brought a cross-action in the same court
against B with leave of court and by service in California of a
cross-complaint upon B's attorney of record in the original action.
A obtained judgment against B by default and sued upon it in
Texas, pleading relevant California statutes and citations of decisions of California courts. The question, raised by general demurrer to A's complaint, was the legal effect in California of the
service in the cross-action, and hence of the judgment founded
upon it. Held:
That this question, whether regarded as of fact or of law, is a
federal question arising under the Full Faith and Credit Clause
and R. S. § 905, 28 U. S. C. 687, and its decision by the Texas
court is reviewable here. P. 64.
5. Under §§ 442, 1015 and 1011 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure, and decisions of the California courts, as pleaded in this
case, valid service of a cross-complaint may be made upon the
attorney of the plaintiff in the original action. P. 65.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

The cross-complaint was for conversion of chattels, filed, with
the permission of the court, in an action for goods sold and
delivered.
6. There is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent a
State from adopting a procedure by which a judgment in personam may be rendered in a cross-action against a plaintiff in its
courts, upon service of process or of appropriate pleading upon his
attorney of record. P. 67.
101 S.W. (2d) 1046, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 668, to review the affirmance of
a judgment dismissing a suit brought in Texas by the
assignee of a judgment recovered, on cross-complaint, in
California against a Texas corporation. The Texas suit
was against the directors of the corporation, as trustees
in dissolution, and against the stockholders, as transferees
of corporate assets. The Supreme Court of Texas having
refused a writ of error for want of jurisdiction, the writ
of this Court ran to the Court of Civil Appeals.

Mr. M. G. Adams for petitioner.
Mr. Oliver J. Todd submitted on brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question for decision is whether the action, in this
case,, of the Texas state courts, in dismissing a suit
founded upon a judgment of the superior court of California, denied to the judgment the faith and credit which
the Constitution commands.
Petitioner, as assignee of a California judgment against
the Beaumont Export & Import Company, a Texas corporation, brought the present suit in the Texas state district court against respondents, directors of the corporafion acting as its trustees in dissolution, and against its
stockholders as transferees of corporate assets, to collect
the judgment. His petition sets out in detail the circumstances attending the rendition of the California judg-

ADAM v. SAENGER.
59

Opinion of the Court.

ment and incorporates by reference a duly attested copy
of the judgment roll.
It appears that the corporation brought suit in the
Superior Court of California, a court of general jurisdiction, against Montes, petitioner's predecessor in interest,
to recover a money judgment for goods sold and delivered.
Thereupon Montes, following what is alleged to be the
California practice, with leave of the court brought a
cross-action against the corporation, by service of a crosscomplaint upon the corporation's attorney of record in
the pending suit, to recover for the conversion of chattels.
Judgment in the cross-action, taken by default, was followed by dismissal of the corporation's suit and is the
judgment which is the subject of the present suit. A
motion to open the default and to be allowed to defend,
made later on behalf of the corporation, was contested
and was denied by the court, the issue being whether the
cross-complaint was in fact served on the plaintiff's
attorney.
The trial court sustained a general demurrer to the complaint and gave judgment dismissing the cause, which the
Court of Appeals affirmed, 101 S. W. (2d) 1046. Petition
to the Texas supreme court for a writ of error was denied
for want of jurisdiction. We granted certiorari, cf. Bain
Peanut Co. v. Pinson, 282 U. S. 499, the question being
an important one of constitutional law. Our writ is properly directed to. the-Court of Civil Appeals, it being the
highest court of the state in which a judgment could be
had. Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 215; Sullivan v
Texas, 207 U. S. 416; San Antonio & A. P. Ry. Co. v.
Wagner, 241 U. S. 476; American Railway Express Co. v.
Levee, 263 U. S. 19.
The Court of Civil Appeals rested its decision on a
single ground, want of jurisdiction of the California court
over the corporation in the cross-action in which the judgment was rendered. Construing the California statutes

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

and decisions which the complaint set out, it concluded
that they did not authorize service of the complaint in
the cross-action upon the plaintiff's attorney of record.
It held further that in any case as the corporation was
not present within the state no jurisdiction could be acquired over it by the substituted service, and the California judgment was consequently without due process
and a nullity beyond the protection of the full faith and
credit clause. To review these rulings we brought the
case here. Cf. Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 25;
Indiana ex rel. Anderson v. Brand, post, p. 95.
By R. S. § 905, 28 U. S. C. 687, enacted under authority
of the full faith and credit clause, Art. IV, § 1 of the
Constitution, the duly attested record of the judgment
of a state is entitled to such faith and credit in every
court within the United States as it has by law or usage
in the state from which it is taken. If it appears on its
face to be a record of a court of general jurisdiction, such
jurisdiction over the cause and the parties is to be presumed unless disproved by. extrinsic evidence, or by the
record itself. Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1; Knowles
v. Gaslight & Coke Co., 19 Wall. 58; Settlemier v. Sullivan, 97 U. S. 444. But in a suit upon the judgment of
another state the jurisdiction of the court which rendered
it is open to judicial inquiry, Chicago Life Insurance Co.
v. Cherry, 244 U. S. 25, and when the matter of fact or
law on which jurisdiction depends was not litigated in the
original suit it is a matter to be adjudicated in the suit
founded upon the judgment. Thompson v. Whitman,
18 Wall. 457. Here the fact of the service of the complaint -upon the attorney is alleged by the petitioner and
admitted by the demurrer, but the court's conclusion that
the California court was without jurisdiction, resting in
part upon its construction of the California statute, presents an issue not litigated in the California suit which
must be determined in the present one.

ADAM v. SAENGER.
59

Opinion of the Court.

Congress has not prescribed the manner in which the
legal effect of the judgment and the proceedings on which
it is founded in the state where rendered are to be ascertained by the courts of another state. It has left that
to the applicable procedure of the courts in which they
are drawn in question. Where they are in issue this
Court, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction to review cases coming to it from state courts, takes judicial
notice of the law of the several states to the same extent
that such notice is taken by the court from which the
appeal is taken. "Whatever is matter of law in the
court appealed from is matter of law here, and whatever
was matter of fact in the court appealed from is matter
of fact here." Hanley v. Donoghue, supra, 6.
According to Texas law the legal effect of the judgment of another state, on which suit is brought, is to be
determined by the court, not the jury. But a suitor
who asserts that the force and effect of the judgment is
different from that of a similar judgment of the courts
of the state is required to allege specifically and prove as
matter of fact the particular laws or usage on which he
relies to establish the difference, and on demurrer only
the law or usage specifically alleged will be considered
in determining whether the law of another state differs
from that of Texas. Porcheler v. Bronson, 50 Tex. 555;
Gill v. Everman, 94 Tex. 209; 59 S. W. 531; National Bank
of Commerce v. Kenney, 98 Tex. 293; 83 S. W. 368.
In the present suit petitioner, in conformity to the
state procedure, has set out in his complaint the California statutes and the citations of the decisions of California courts which he contends establish the law of that
state that a cross-action in a pending suit may be begun
by service of a cross-complaint upon the plaintiff's attorney. The question thus raised upon demurrer for
decision by the court is the legal effect in California of
the service, and hence of the judgment founded upon it.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Whether the question be regarded as one of fact or more
precisely and accurately as a question of law to be determined as are other questions of law, although procedural
exigencies require it to be presented by the pleading and
proof, as are issues of fact, it is one arising under the
Constitution and a statute of the United States which
commands that such faith and credit shall be given by
every court to the California proceedings "as they have
by law or usage" of that state. And since the existence
of the federal right turns on the meaning and effect of
the California statute, the decision of the Texas court
on that point, whether of law or of fact, is reviewable
here. Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255, 274, 277-279;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611;
Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246, 261;
Ancient Egyptian Order v. Michaux, 279 U. S. 737, 744746; Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590; see Northern
Pacific R. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593; cf.
Union Pacific R. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 248
U. S. 67, 69; Ward v. Love County, supra, 22; Truax v.
Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, 324; Davis v. Wechsler, 263
U. S. 22, 24; Pattersonv. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 602.
While this Court reexamines such an issue with deference after its determination by a state court, it cannot, if the laws and Constitution of the United States
are to be observed, accept as final the decision of the
stdte tribunal as to matters alleged to give rise to the
asserted federal right. This is especially the case where
the decision is rested, not on local law or matters of
fact of the usual type, which are peculiarly within the
cognizance of the local courts, but upon the law of
another state, as readily determined here as in a state
court. Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 684; Yarborough v. Yarborough, 168 S. C. 46; 166 S. E. 877; 290
U. S. 202.
In ruling that the service in the California suit was
unauthorized, the Court of Civil Appeals said:

ADAM v. SAENGER.
59

Opinion of the Court.

"The cross action was not an ancillary proceeding,
but an independent suit in which a final judgment could
be rendered without awaiting a decision in the, original
suit. Farrar v. Steensburg, 173 Cal. 94, 159 Pac. 707.
It is well settled in this State that a cross action occupies the attitude of an independent suit and requires service of the cross action upon the cross defendant. Harris
v. Schlinke, 95 Tex. 88. This being so, in the absence
of a waiver of service, or an appearance by the cross defendant, personal service on the cross defendant must
be had to confer jurisdiction upon the court to determine
the matter and render judgment in the case."
But the question presented by the pleadings is the status
of a cross-action under the California statutes, not under
those of Texas. We think its status is adequately disclosed by the California statutes and decisions pleaded by
petitioner, and is that for which he contends.
Section 442 of the California Code of Civil Procedure
specifically provides that a defendant may secure affirmative relief upon "cross-complaint" which "must be served
upon the parties affected thereby," and requires service
of "summons upon the cross-complaint" only upon such
parties as "have not appeared in the action."' Arguing
that "action" means only "cross-action" and not the original action brought by the plaintiff, the Texas court con"Whenever the defendant seeks affirmative relief against any
party, relating to or depending upon the contract, transaction,
matter, happening or accident upon which the action is brought,
or affecting the property to which the action relates, he may, in
addition to his answer, file at the same time, or by permission of
the court subsequently, a cross-complaint. The cross-complaint must
be served upon the parties affected thereby, and such parties may
demur or answer thereto as to the original complaint. If any of
the parties affected by the cross-complaint have not appeared in
the action, a summons upon the cross-complaint must be issued
and served upon them in the same manner as upon the
commencement of an Qriginal action."
53383°--38-5

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

cluded that a plaintiff who has not appeared in the crossaction must be served with summons "as upon the
commencement of an original action." But the word
"action," even if susceptible of such meaning, cannot be
so interpreted in the face of the pleaded California decisions which hold that a cross-complaint may be served
on the attorney of one who is already a party to the original action. Farrarv. Steenbergh, 173 Cal. 94; 159 P. 707;
Wood v. Johnston, 8 Cal. App. 258; 96 P. 508; Ritter v.
Braash, 11 Cal. App. 258; 104 P. 592.
Section 1015 provides that in all cases where a party,
whether resident or non-resident, has an attorney in an
action, "the service of papers, when required, must be
upon the attorney instead of the party, except service of
subpoenas, of writs and other process issued in the suit,
and of papers to bring him into contempt." 2 The Court
of Civil Appeals construed this section as requiring "service of subpoenas, of writs, and other process issued in the
suit" upon the party rather than the attorney, and as
including the cross-complaint in the terms "writ" and
:(process." But assuming that a cross-complaint served
without summons may be so characterized, it is clear that
the section does not by its terms preclude valid service
"When a plaintiff or a defendant, who has appeared, resides out
of the State, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the
service may be made on the clerk or on the -justice where there is
no clerk, for him. But in all cases where a party has an attorney
in the action or proceeding, the service of papers, when required,
must be upon the attorney instead of the party, except service of
subpenas, of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers
to bring him into contempt. If the sole attorney for a party is
removed or suspended from practice, then the party has no attorney within the meaning of this section. If his sole attorney has
ao known office in this State, notices and papers may be served by
leaving a copy thereof with the clerk of the court or with the justice
where there is no clerk, unless such attorney shall have filed in the
cause an address of a place at which notices and papers may be
served on him, in which event they may be served at such place."

ADAM v. SAENGER.
59

Opinion of the Court.

of the cross-complaint upon the attorney for a party
which, as we have seen, § 442 permits. Section 1015
directs service upon the attorney of all but the three
types of papers excepted, but says nothing as to the effectiveness of service of those papers upon him. Section
1011, set out in the pleading though not referred to in
the court's opinion, reads, "Notices and papers, when
and how served. The Service may be personal, by delivery t6 the party or attorney on whom the service is
required to be made ....
The question whether § 1015 does forbid service of a
cross-complaint on the attorney has been definitely answered in the negative by the Supreme Court of California, which, in Farrarv. Steenbergh, supra, 97, held,
"Service of a cross-complaint upon a plantiff who appears
by an attorney is not made by a summons to the plaintiff, but by delivery of a copy of the cross-complaint to
the attorney." Upon this ground the California District
Court of Appeals, in cases on which petitioner relies, has
sustained judgments taken upon default in a cross-action
begun by service of the cross-complaint on the plaintiff's
attorney. Ritter v. Braash, supra; Wood v. Johnston,
supra. Upon all the pleaded evidence of the California
law, to the consideration of which we are restricted by
the present state of the record, we think the only inference to be drawn is that the service in the California suit
was authorized by California law.
There is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent a state from adopting a procedure by which a judgment in personam may be rendered in a cross-action
against a plaintiff in its courts, upon service of process or
of appropriate pleading upon his attorney of record. The
plaintiff having, by his voluntary act in demanding justice from the defendant, submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court, there is nothing arbitrary or unreasonable in treating him as being there for all purposes

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

for which justice to the defendant requires his presence.
It is the price which the state may exact as the condition
of opening its courts to the plaintiff. Frank L. Young
Co. v. McNeal-Edwards Co., 283 U. S. 398, 400; cf. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Lindell, 281 U. S. 14, 17.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs in the result.

COMPANIA ESPANOLA DE NAVEGACION MARI-

TIMA, S. A., v. THE NAVEMAR

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

N.

242.

Argued January 7, 10, 1938.-Decided January 31, 1938.

1. A vessel of a friendly government in its possession and service
is a public vessel, even though engaged in the carriage of merchandise for hire, and as such is immune from suit in the courts
of admiralty of the United States. P. 74.
2. This immunity the friendly government may assert either through
diplomatic channels or as a claimant ih the courts of the United
States. Id.
If the claim is allowed by the executive branch of our government, it is then the duty of the courts to release the vessel upon
appropriate suggestion by the Attorney General of the United
States, or other officer acting under his direction.
The foreign government is also entitled as of right upon a proper
showing, to appear in a pending suit, there to assert its claim to
the vessel, and to raise the jurisdictional question in its own name
or that of its accredited and recognized representative.
3. The District Court took possession of a Spanish vessel on a libel
by one claiming to be the owner, who alleged wrongful dispossession by members of the crew. The Spanish Ambassador, by a

