CALMAR S. S. CORP. v. TAYLOR.
501

Statement of the Case.

of California and on respondents who claim under her.
The decree below must accordingly be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO and MR. JUSTICE REED took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

CALMAR STEAMSHIP CORP. v. TAYLOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 594. Argued March 9, 1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.
1. The right of a seaman to maintenance and cure for an illness which
befalls him during his service may continue for a period beyond
the duration of the voyage, whether he be at home or abrad, and
even though the illness be not caused by the employment. P. 529.
2. In the case of a seaman suffering from an incurable disease, which
manifested itself during his employment but was not caused by it,
the duty of the ship owner to furnish maintenance and cure does
not extend beyond a fair time after the voyage in which to effect
such improvement in the seaman's condition as reasonably may
be expected to result from nursing, care, and medical treatment.
P. 530.
3. In a suit brought by a seaman suffering from an incurable disease,
which manifested itself during his employment though not caused
thereby, an award of a lump sum in anticipation of a continuing
need of maintenance and cure for life (based on his life expectc.
ancy), can not be sustained. P. 530.
4. The seaman's recovery in each such case must be measured by
the reasonable cost of that maintenance and cure to which he is
entitled at the time of the trial, including, in the discretion of the
court, such amounts as may be needful in the immediate future
for the maintenance and cure of a kind and for a period which
can be definitely ascertained. P. 531.
92 F. 2d 84, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 302 U. S. 681, to review a decree affirming

an award against the steamship company in a suit in
admiralty for maintenance and cure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

:303 U. S.

Mr. Frank A. Bull, with whom Messrs. 0. D. Duncan
and Russell T. Mount were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Abraham E. Freedman, with whom Mr. Howard
M. Long was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question for decision is whether the duty of a
ship owner to provide maintenance and cure for a seaman
falling ill of an incurable disease while in its employ extends to the payment of a lump sum award sufficient to
defray the cost of maintenance and cure for the remainder
of his life.
Respondent was a member of the crew of petitioner's
steamship "Losmar." Following an injury to his foot,
allegedly caused by stubbing his toe against an object
lying on the floor of the boiler room where he was employed, respondent was found to be afflicted with thrombo
angiitis obliterans, otherwise known as Buerger's disease, an incurable malady of the veins and arteries. It is
attended by interruptions of the blood stream, with consequent malnutrition of the affected parts, producing
lesions, deteriorating changes of the tissues, and gangrene.
Medical treatment and amputation of the affected parts
may halt the advance of the disease, but its manifestations are likely to recur in other parts of the body, and
medical opinion is that the disease tends to be progressive and may ultimately cause death. Care and treatinent at frequent intervals, with periodic medical observation of the patient, are of aid in arresting its
progress.
After February 12, 1935, when respondent was first
hospitalized, he was given treatment at various marine
hospitals, in the course of which he suffered four amputations upon the right foot and leg. On October 3, 1935,
after his leg had been amputated below the knee, he

CALMAR S. S. CORP. v. TAYLOR.
525

Opinion of the Court..

was discharged to the "Outpatient Department to return
at intervals for reexamination, and later to be fitted with
an artificial limb." Petitioner, from time to time, paid
respondent small sums for maintenance and cure, continuing to do so until March 10, 1936, when they totaled
$487. At about this time respondent brought the present
suit in admiralty to recover maintenance and cure, and,
in another count, for petitioner's negligence in causing
the injury. The trial court found that petitioner was not
negligent, but held that respondent is entitled to recover
the cost of maintenance and medical treatment so long
as such treatment is necessary, and that as his affliction
is incurable, there should be a lump sum award based on
his life expectancy. Its decree awarding a recovery of
$7000 was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 92 F. (2d)
84. Because of the importance of this question, we
granted certiorari, 302 U. S.681, but denied a cross petition to review the Court of Apjeals' affirmance of the
decree for the ship owner on the negligence count, post,
p. 643.
The ancient duty of a vessel and her owner to provide
maintenance and cure for seamen injured or falling ill
while in service was recognized and, to some extent, defined by this Court in The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175.
See also Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S.372;
Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson, 278 U. S. 130. The duty,
which arises from the contract of employment, Cortes v.
Baltimore Insular Line, 287 U. S. 367, 371, does not
rest upon negligence or culpability on the part of the
owner or master, id.; The City of Alexandria, 17 Fed.
390 (D. C.); The Mars, 149 Fed. 729, 731 (C. C. A.);
Sorensen v. Alaska S. S. Co., 243 Fed. 280 (D. C.), aff'd
247 Fed. 294 (C. C. A.); Brown v. The Bradish Johnson, Fed. Cas. No. 1992, 1 Woods 301 (C. C.), nor is it
restricted to those cases where the seaman's employment
is the cause of the injury or illness. The Wensleydale, 41

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Fed. 829 (D. C.); The Bouker No. 2, 241 Fed. 831
(C. C A.). It is not an award of compensation for
the disability suffered, The Wanderer, 20 Fed. 140, 143
(C. C.), although breach of the duty may render the
owner liable for the consequential damages suffered by
the seaman. Cortes v. Baltimore Insular Line, supra,
371. The maintenance exacted is comparable to that to
which the seaman is entitled while at sea, The Henry B.
Fiske, 141 Fed. 188, 192 (D. C.); The Mars, 145 Fed.
446, 447, (D. C.), aff'd 149 Fed. 729 (C. C. A.); The
Bouker No. 2, supra, 836, and "cure" is care, including
nursing and medical attention during such period as the
duty continues. Whitney v. Olsen, 108 Fed. 292, 297
(C. C. A.) and cases cited; Daughertyv. Thompson-Lockhart Co., 211 Fed. 224, 227 (D. C.).
In !Che Osceola, supra, this Court reserved the point
whether the duty of maintenance and cure extends beyond the duration of the voyage, and that question, so
far as this Court is concerned, remains an open one. The
reasons underlying the rule, to which reference must be
made in defining it, are those enumerated in the classic
passage by Mr. Justice Story in Harden v. Gordon, Fed.
Cas. No. 6047 (C. C.): the protection of seamen, who, as
a class, are poor, friendless and improvident, from the
hazards of illness and abandonment while ill in foreign
ports; the inducement to masters and owners to protect
the safety and health of seamen while in service; the
maintenance of a merchant marine for the commercial
service and maritime defense of the nation by inducing
men to accept employment in an arduous and perilous
service.
It is plain that in many cases these purposes will not
be accomplished if the owner's duty to furnish maintenance and cure ends with the voyage. If the injury or
illness outlasts it, the seaman may still be left helpless
and uncared for in a foreign port. Even if he is returned

CALMAR S. S. CORP. v. TAYLOR.
525

Opinion of the Court.

to the home port the inducement to the owner to care
for the health and safety of seamen during the voyage
and the inducement to seamen to take the necessary risks
of a hazardous calling will be materially lessened. The
chances of their prompt restoration to a service whose
preservation is in the public interest, will be diminished
if the right to maintenance and cure ends with the voyage.
Tacit recognition is accorded these considerations in the
great number of cases in the lower federal courts sustaining the right to maintenance and cure for a reasonable
time after the voyage-"reasonable time" being appraised
with reference to the special circumstances of each case.
The Bouker No. 2, supra, 835, and cases cited at 834.
It is true that in most of these cases the efficient cause
of the injury or illness was some proven act of the seaman
in the service of the ship, but there are others in which
it was deemed enough that he was incapacitated when subject to the call of duty as a seaman, and that his incapacity continued after the voyage had ended. The Bouker
No. 2, supra, 835; The Wensleydale, supra.
We accept as supported by evidence, the finding of
the district court that respondent's disease and the amputations which he suffered were not caused by the injury
to his foot. But we think that even in such a case,
whether the seaman is at home or abroad, his right to
maintenance and cure may outlast the voyage. The policy underlying the obligation, so cogently stated by Justice Story in Harden v. Gordon, supra, and the liberality
with which admiralty courts have traditionally interpreted rules devised for the benefit and protection of
seamen who are its wards, Robertson v. Baldwin, 165
U. S. 275, 287; Cortes v. Baltimore Insular Line, supra,
377; The Arizona v. Anelich, 298 U. S. 110, 123, call for
some extension of the duty beyond the term of service.
The practical inconvenience and the attendant danger
to seamen in the application of a rule which would en53383°

39---34

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

courage the attempt by master or owner to determine in
advance of any maintenance and cure, whether the illness
was caused by the employment, are manifest.
There remain the questions whether in the case of a
chronic illness the duty continues so long as medical
attendance and care are beneficial, until death if the need
lasts so long, and whether a lump sum may be awarded
to defray the cost of meeting the anticipated need.
In answering the first we lay to one side those cases
where the incapacity is caused by the employment. As
to them considerations not present here may apply, which
might be thought to require a more liberal application
of the rule than we think is called for in this case. Cf.
Reed v. Canfield, Fed. Cas. No. 11641 (C. C.), with the
comments of Judge, later Justice Brown in The J. F.
Card, 43 Fed. 92 (D. C.), and see those of Judge Hough
in The Bouker No. 2, supra, 834. But we find no support
in the policies which have generated the doctrine for
holding that it imposes on the ship owner an indefinitely
continuing obligation to furnish medical care to a seaman
afflicted with an incurable disease, which manifests itself
during his employment, but is not caused by it. So far
as we are advised it is without support in the authorities.
We can find no basis for saying that, if the disease proves
to be incurable, the duty extends beyond a fair time after
the voyage in which to effect such improvement in the
seaman's condition as reasonably may be expected to
result from nursing, care, and medical treatment. This
would satisfy such demands of policy as underlie the
imposition of the obligation. Beyond this we think there
is no duty, at least where the illness is not caused by the
seaman's service.
The award of a lump sum in anticipation of the continuing need of maintenance and cure for life or an indefinite period, is without support in judicial decision.
Awards of small amounts to cover future maintenance

CALMAR S. S. CORP. v. TAYLOR.
525

Opinion of the Court.

and cure of a kind and for a period definitely ascertained
or ascertainable have occasionally been made. The Mars,
149 Fed. 729, 730 (C. C. A.); Wilson v. Manhattan Canning Co., 205 Fed. 996, 997 (D. C.). But the award here
seems to us to be inconsistent with the measure of the
duty and the purposes to be effected by its performance.
The duty does not extend beyond the seaman's need.
Raymond v. The Ella S. Thayer, 40 Fed. 902, 903 (D. C.) ;
The J. F. Card, supra, 95; The Bouker No. 2, supra, 835;
The Santa Barbara,263 Fed. 369, 371 (C. C. A.); Stewart
v. United States, 25 F. (2d) 869, 870 (D. C.) ; Marshall v.
InternationalMercantile Marine Co., 39 F. (2d) 551, 553
(C. C. A.); cf. Holt v. Cummings, 102 Pa:. 212; contra,
Reed v. :Canfield, supra. The amount and character of
medical care which will be required in the case of an
affliction, as well defined even as Buerger's disease, cannot
be measured by reference to mortality tables. Moreover,
courts take cognizance of the marine hospital service
where seamen may be treated at minimum expense, in some
cases without expense, and they limit recovery to the
expense of such maintenance and cure as is not at the
disposal of the seaman through recourse to that service.
The Bouker No. 2, supra, 835; Marshall v. International
Mercantile Marine Co., supra, 553, and cases cited. Furthermore, a duty imposed to safeguard the seaman from
the danger of illness without succor, and to safeguard
him, in case 6f illness, against the consequences of his
improvidence, would hardly be performed by the payment of a lump sum to cover the cost of medical attendance during life.
The seaman's recovery must therefore be measured in
each case by the reasonable cost of that maintenance and
cure to which he is entitled at the time of trial, including, in the discretion of the court, such amounts as may
be needful in the immediate future for the maintenance

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

303 U. S.

and cure of a kind and for a period which can be definitely
ascertained.
The courts below have made no findings sufficient to
enable us to fix the amount which respondent is entitled
to recover. The decree is accordingly reversed and the
cause remanded to the district court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion, and without prejudice to any later suit by respondent to recover maintenance and cure to which he may then be entitled.
-

MR. JUSTICE BLACK is of

Reversed.

opinion that the judgment

should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ADAMS, RECEIVER, v. NAGLE ET

AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 123.

Argued December 16, 17, 1937. Reargued March 8, 9,
1938.-Decided March 28, 1938.

Stockholders of the "P" and "R" national banks brought bills in
equity to enjoin the receiver from enforcing assessments, ordered
by the Comptroller of the Currency pursuant to the statute governing the additional liability of shareholders, on the grounds that
the action of the Comptroller in ordering the assessments was in
excess of his statutory power, arbitrary, capricious, and a denial
of due process of law. The bills alleged, inter alia, that the Comptroller erroneously disregarded agreements theretofore entered into
between the "P" and "R" and the "F" banks, whereby the first
two conveyed all of their assets to the last, which assumed all of
their liabilities except liabilities to stockholders, and out of which
*Together with No. 124, Adams, Receiver, v. Tobias et al., also on
writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit.

