OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
303 U. S.

Syllabus.

"Nothing is said about taxation, and it does not seem
to have entered into the contract between the parties, but
was obviously left where the law had placed it before the
act was passed, nor was any provision made for the
payment of taxes unless it may be held that the disburse-

inents for that purpose may fairly be included in such
as are required to pay the current expenditures in carrying on the ordinary business of the corporation."
In our opinion, as the contract does not prohibit this
tax, the legislation does not violate the contracts clause.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE

and MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
SHANNAHAN ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 502. Argued February 28, March 1, 193S.-I)ccided April 4,1938.
The Railway Labor Act confers upon the National Mediation Board
certain duties respecting mediation or arbitration of labor controversies on railroad carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce
Act, with the proviso that the term "carrier" shall not include any
street, interurban, or suburban electric railway not operating as a
part of a general steam-railroad system of transportation, etc., and
directs the Interstate Commerce Commission upon request of the
Mediation Board or upon complaint of any party interested to
determine after hearing whether any line operated by electric power
falls within the proviso. Held:
1. That a decision of the Commission finding a railway not to
he a street, interurban, or suburban electric railway within the
meaning of the proviso was not an "order," either in form or in
substance, but a determination of fact, negative in character, and
not enforceable by the Commission or by the Board. Therefore
it was not reviewable under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913.
P. 599.

StlANNAIJAN v.
59t6

Opinion

TNITED STATES.
1'
the Court.

2. The argneti Ithat the decision is rcviewalhle as -in"order"
under the Urgent )cficiencies Act, because it fixes the status of
the carrier as subject to obligations of the Railway Laibor Act wilful
failure to comply with which is made a ntdemcanor,-is considered and rejected. P. 601.
20 F. Supp. 1002, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of a three-judge District Court
dismissing for want of jurisdiction a bill to set aside
an alleged order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. John C. Lawyer, with whom Mr. R. Stan ley A'nderson was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Leo F. Tierney, with whom Acting Solicitor General Bell, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs.
Wendell Berge, Robert L. Stern, Nelson Thomas, and
Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The sole question for decision is whether the District
Court had jurisdiction of this controversy under the
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913.1
The Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad is
an interstate electric railway subject to the Interstate
Commerce Act. On August 9, 1934, the National Mediation Board requested the Commission to determine
whether that carrier fell within the exemption from the
scope of the Railway Labor Act, as amended June 21,
1934, 48 Stat. 1185, c. 691 (45 U. S. C. § 151). That Act
confers upon the National Mediation Board certain duties in respect to carriers by railroad subject to the Interstate Commerce Act, with the following exception:
"Provided, however, That the term 'carrier' shall not
include any street, interurban, or suburban electric rail' c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219, 220, 28 U. S. C. §§ 41(28), 46, 47.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

way, unless such railway is operating as a part of a general steam-railroad system of transportation, but shall
not exclude any part of the general steam-railroad system of transportation now or hereafter operated by any
other motive power. The Interstate Commerce Commission is hereby authorized and directed upon request of
the- Mediation Board or upon complaint of any party
interested to determine after hearing whether any line
operated by electric power falls within the terms of this
proviso."
After due hearing had, at which the South Shore introduced evidence and filed its brief, the matter was
argued orally before the Commission, which, on February
14, 1936, made its Report and the following determinalion (214 I. C. C. 167, 173):
"We find that the line of the Chicago, South Shore
and South Bend Railroad is not a street, interurban, or
suburban electric railway within the meaning of the exemption proviso in the first paragraph of Section 1 of
the Railway Labor Act, as amended June 21, 1934, and it
is therefore subject to the provisions of that act."
No order was entered thereon by the Commission.
Shannahan and Jackson, who had been appointed
Trustees of the South Shore by the federal court for
northern Indiana, and had filed their appearance in the
proceeding, applied for a rehearing. An order was entered denying the same. Thereupon, the Trustees filed
this suit against the United States, invoking the jurisdiction of the court under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of
October 22, 1913, to set aside the alleged order. They do
not deny that the South Shore is an interstate carrier
subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission; and that
the Act is constitutional. Their contention is that:
"A correct application of the law to the undisputed facts
leads to the conclusion that the lines of the railroad of
appellants are an electric interurban railway under the

SHANNAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
596

Opinion of the Court.

exemption proviso of the first division of Section 1 of
the Railway Labor Act and that there is no substantial
evidence to support the conclusion and determination
of the Commission."
The Commission intervened. Its answer, and that of
the United States, challenged the jurisdiction of the
court on the ground that the determination of the Commission was not an "order" within the meaning of the
Urgent Deficiencies Act. The case was heard before
three judges on the pleadings and evidence; and a decree
was entered dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction,
one judge dissenting. 20 F. Supp. 1002. The Trustees
appealed.
First. The function of the Commission is limited to the
determination of a fact. Its decision is not even in form
an order. It "had no characteristic of an order, affirmative or negative." United States v. Illinois Cent. R. Co.,
244 U. S. 82, 89; United States v. Atlanta, B. & C. R.
Co., 282 U. S. 522, 527-28. Compare Lehigh Valley R.
Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 412, 414. But even if
this difficulty is overlooked, others are insuperable. The
decision neither commands nor directs anything to be
done. "It was merely preparation for possible action in
some proceeding which may be instituted in the future."
United States v. Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 273 U. S.
299, 310. The determination is thus not enforceable by
the Commission; the only action which could ever be
taken on it would be by some other body. It is as clearly
"negative" as orders by which the Commission refuses to
take requested action. United States v. Griffin, ante, p.
226.- As such, it is not reviewable under the Urgent
Deficiencies Act.
2

See also Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282;

Hooker v. Knapp, 225 U. S. 302; Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United
States, 243 U. S. 412, 414; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States,
246 U. S. 457, 482-83; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of I(he Court.

303 U. S.

Second. Moreover, the (leterniiiatiori of the Coininission is not even a decision which the Mediation Board,
by whom it was sought, is empowered to enforce. The Act
confers upon the Board no power over any carrier. It
merely imposes upon the Board possible duties in respect
to interstate carriers by railroad not exempted by the
proviso. The Board's duties, in case of dispute between
carrier and employees, require it:
(1) to "promptly put itself in communication with
the parties to [the] controversy, and ... use its best
efforts, by mediation, to bring them to agreement."
When a dispute is settled through these efforts a mediation agreement is signed, and should any question arise
subsequently regarding the meaning or application of
such an agreement, the Board is required upon request of
either party "and after a hearing of both sides [to] give
its interpretation within thirty days."
(2) If the mediating efforts prove unsuccessful, it is
the Board's duty to "at once endeavor as its final required action . . . to induce the parties to submit their
controversy to arbitration, in accordance with the provisions of" the Act. If arbitration is agreed upon it may
become the Board's duty to name a third arbitrator if
the two named by the parties fail to select him.
(3) If arbitration is refused and the dispute threatens
"substantially to interrupt commerce to a degree such as
to deprive any section of the country of essential transportation service," then the Board is required to notify
the President.
(4) If, in selecting representatives to deal with the
carriers, disputes arise among employees" as to what organization they desire to represent them, it is the duty
of the Board, on request of either party, to investigate
279 U. S. 768, 781; Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. United States,
280 U. S. 469, 475-77; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
235, 238; United States v. Corrick, 298 U. S. 435, 438.

SHANNAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
596

Opinion of Ihe Court.

and to certify in writing to the parties and to the carrier the names of the individuals or organizations that
have been designated and authorized to represent the
employees.
(5) If the National Railroad Adjustment Board undertakes arbitration, and it fails to select a referee, the
Mediation Board has the duty of doing so.
In order not to fail in the performance of these duties
the Mediation Board had to satisfy itself whether the
South Shore was a railroad within the exemption proviso.
To that end, it applied to the Commission for its determination. If it had omitted to do so, the application
might have been made "upon complaint of any party interested." The determination, whether applied for by
the Board, by a carrier, or by employees, is clearly not
an order enforceable within the meaning of the cases
construing and applying the Urgent Deficiencies Act. It
is a decision on a controverted matter, comparable to those
considered in United States v. Los Angeles & Salt Lake
R. Co, 273 U. S. 299, .in Great Northern Ry.Co. v. United
States, 277 U. S. 172, in United States v. Atlanta, B &
C. R. Co., 282 U. S. 522, and in United States v. Griffin,
ante, p. 226, which were held not to be subject to review
under the Urgent Deficiencies Act.
Third. The Trustees argue that the determination of
the Commission is an affirmative "order, because it fixed
for the first time, by the only body authorized by law to
do so, the status of the carrier"; that by fixing the status,
the obligations of the Railway Labor Act are fixed upon
the carrier; and that wilful failure or refusal of any carrier to comply with certain of the obligations is made a
misdemeanor."
845 U. S. C. § 152(10).
That declares: "The willful failure or
refusal of any carrier, its officers or agents, to comply with the terms
of the third, fourth, fifth, seventh or eighth paragraph of this section
shall be a misdemeanor. . . ." The third paragraph prohibits inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, supra, shows

that the determination of a status or similar matter is
not action subject to review under the Urgent Deficiencies Act even if disregard of the determination may subject the carrier to criminal prosecution.4 The Panama
Canal Act, 37 Stat. 560, prohibited, after July 1, 1914.
any ownership by a railroad in any common carrier by
water where the railroad might compete with the water
carrier; prescribed a heavy penalty for any violation of
the prohibition; and conferred upon the Commission
jurisdiction:
"to determine questions of fact as to the competition or
possibility of competition, after full hearing, on the application of any railroad company or other carrier. Such
application may be filed for the purpose of determining
whether any existing service is in violation of this
section and pray for an order permitting the continuance
of any vessel or vessels already in operation . . ."

Thereupon in January, 1914, the Lehigh Valley filed
with the Commission a petition for a hearing on the question whether the services of a steamboat line owned by it
would be in violation of the above section and for an
extension of time. The Commission held that, by virference, influence or coercion in the designation of representatives.
The fourth assures the right of employees to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing, and forbids carriers
to maintain or financially assist any labor organization. The fifth
prohibits carriers from requiring any person seeking employment to
sign any contract to join or not to join a labor union. The seventh
prohibits carriers from changing rates of pay, rules or working conditions of employees as a class except as prescribed in § 156. The
eighth requires carriers to notify its employees by printed notices
in such form as shall be specified by the Mediation Board that all
disputes will be handled in accordance with the requirements of the
Act.
4For details, see opinion of the District Court for Eastern Pennsylvania, 234 Fed. 682.

S1HANNAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
596

Opinion of the Court.

tue of the arrangements found to exist, the railroad did
or might compete with its boat line; and dismissed the
petition. This Court held that the risk to which the
railroad was left subject did not come from the order,
but from the statute which contained the prohibition and
provided a penalty; that, therefore, it was not an affirmative order; and that the District Court was without jurisdiction under the Urgent Deficiencies Act. Compare also
Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 280
U. S. 469, 476-77.
Fourth. Whether the determination of the Conmmission is reviewable in a district court by some judicial procedure other than that of the Urgent Deficiencies Act
we have no occasion to consider. Compare United Statcs
v. Griffin, supra, and Lehigh Valley Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra5
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
-' In Utah-Idaho Cent. Ry. v. Shields (unreported), D. Utah, Oct. 15,
1936, and in Hudson & Manhattan Ry. v. Hardy, S. D. N. Y., Feb. 21,
1938, 22 F. Supp. 105 (where jurisdiction under the Urgent Deficiencies Act was specifically denied), the electric railways involved were
declared in proceedings before single judges to be within the proviso
excluding them from the application of the Act, and final injunctions against prosecution for penalties were granted, although the
Interstate Commerce Commission, in 214 I. C. C. 707 and 216 I. C. C.
745, respectively, had reached the opposite conclusion. In Texas
Electric Ry. v. Eastus (unreported), N. D. Tex., June 4, 1936, a
preliminary injunction wa likewise granted in spite of the Commission's decision in 208 I. C. C. 193. From informal sources it has
been learned that similar proceedings have been instituted in other
cases. Chicago Warehouse & Term. Co. v. Igoe, N. D. Ill., and
Chicago Tunnel Co. v. Igoe, N. D. Ill., to review 214 I. C. C. 81;
Hudson & Manhattan Ry. v. Quinn, D. N. J., to review 216 I. C. C.
745; New York, W. & B. R. Co. v. Hardy, S. D. N. Y., to review 218
I. C. C. 253.

