CENTURY INDEMNITY CO. v. NELSON.
206

213

Counsel for Parties.

judgment as rendered could not have been given without deciding it. De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216,
234; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, 306, 307; Wood
Mowing & Reaping Machine Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S.
293, 295, 297; Whitney y. California,274 U. S. 357, 360,
361; Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52, 54.
Applying this rule, the motion to dismiss must be
granted.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
CENTURY INDEMNITY CO. v. NELSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 362.

Argued February 2, 1938.-Decided February 28, 1938.

After the submission of a law case tried without a jury, the District
Court ordered "that judgment be entered for plaintiff . . . upon
findings of facts and conclusions of law to be presented." Thereafter, in accordance with a rule of the court, special findings
of fact and conclusions of law were proposed by each side; those
offered by the plaintiff were adopted by the judge and formal
judgment was ordered and entered. Held that the first order
was preliminary; that rejections of defendant's proposed findings
were rulings made "in the progress of the trial," within the
meaning of 28 U. S. C. ยง -875, and reviewable by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. P. 215.
90 F. (2d) 644, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

302 U. S. 674, to review the affirmance

of a judgment of the District Court in an action at law
tried without a jury.

Mr. Jewel Alexander, with whom Mr. Oliver Dibble
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joe G. Sweet submitted on brief for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM. 1937.
)pinion of t

MR. JUSTICE
Court.

MNIC'EYNOLDS

('out.

deciVered tie

303 U. S.
opiniioin of the

This cause went up by appeal from the District Court.
Northern District, California. Of the twenty-eight assignnents of error, eleven, based upon the trial court's
refusal of certain requested special findings, were rejected
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. It held the requests
"were made too late," that "the findings were proposed
after the trial had been completed and after the court
had announced its decision and hence did not occur during the trial." To support this view it cited Continental
National Bank v. National City Bank, (9th Cir.) 69 F.
(2d) 312, 317, which affirms--"It is settled that they
[requests for findings] came too late if made after judgment even though the trial judge, after judgment, granted
leave to make the request."
A jury having been duly waived, the trial judge heard
evidepce. At the conclusion of this counsel for both
sides made motions for judgment and findings. The minutes of May 31, 1934, show-"This case having been
heretofore heard and submitted and due consideration
having been had, it is ordered that judgment be entered
for plaintiff, with interest and costs, upon findings of
facts and conclusions of law to be presented."
The bill of exceptions recites-"Thereafter, [after requests for judgment and findings] the case was orally argued before the court and was submitted upon written
briefs. Thereafter and on June 1, 1934, [May 31 ?] and
outside the presence of the parties, the Court made and
entered its order granting judgment to the plaintiff with
findings to be submitted. Thereafter proposed findings
of fact and conclusions of law were served and lodged with
the Court by plaintiff, and within the time allowed by law
the defendant served and lodged its proposed special
findings of fact and conclusions of law in lieu of those
proposed by the plaintiff.

CENTURY INDEMNITY CO. v. NELSON.
21:3

215

Opinion of the Court.

"Thereafter and on June 16, 1934, the Court, without
the presence of the parties, signed the proposed special
findings of fact and conclusions of law of the plaintiff
and filed same on said date as the findings and conclusions
of the Court, and judgment was entered on said June
16, 1934."
June 16, 1934, "Special Findings and Conclusions of
Law" presented for plaintiff Nelson were signed by the
District Court and were filed. The document concluded
thus"From the foregoing Findings of Fact the court concludes that judgment should be entered in favor of the
plaintiff and against the defendant in the sum of Six
Thousand ($6000.00) Dollars together with interest
thereon at the legal rate of seven per cent (7%) per annum from the date of the commencement of this action,
to-wit: September 24, 1931, together with plaintiff's costs
of suit incurred herein, and that upon satisfaction of said
Judgment the Clerk of this court should deliver to the
defendant the assignment by plaintiff against the San
Francisco Iron & Metal Company, a corporation in bankruptcy.
"Let judgment be entered accordingly."
Sec. 875, Title 28, U. S. C.. A., is in the margin; 1 also
Rule 42, District Court Northern District of California.-'
I Section 875, Title 28, U. S. C. A.

Review in cases tried without

jur.
When an issue of fact in any
civil cause in a district court is tried and determined by the court
without the intervention of a jury, according to section 773 of this
title, the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial of the cause,
if excepted to at the time, and duly presented by a bill of exceptions,
may be reviewed upon a writ of error or upon appeal; and when the
finding is special the review may extend to the determination of the
sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment.
2 Rule 42, United States District
Court, Northern District of
California.
Findings . .. In actions at law, where a request for special findings of fact is made and granted, and in suits in equity, no judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

303 U. S.

We are unable to accept the conclusion below that
within the intent of the statute the "progress of the trial"
ended on June 1, when the court ordered "that judgment
be entered for plaintiff, with interest and costs, upon
findings of fact and conclusions of law to be presented,"
and thereafter it was too late adequately to present
special findings of fact. The qualifying words in the
order "upon findings of fact and conclusions of law to
be presented" are appropriate to suggest "merely a preliminary order" and reservation of opportunity for
further action. Considering them along with Rule 42
and the subsequent action by counsel for both sides and
the court-all without suggestion of objection-it appears plain enough that all parties understood the cause
was "in progress of trial" until entry of the final judgment on June 16. Rule 42 is susceptible of the interpretation insisted upon by counsel for petitioner and apshall be entered until the findings and, in an equity suit, the conclusions of law, shall have been signed and filed or waived as hereinafter provided; but the rendition of the decision or opinion shall
be deemed and considered, and shall be entered by the Clerk, as
merely a preliminary order for judgment. Within five days after
written notice of the decision, the prevailing party shall prepare a
draft of the findings and, in an equity suit, of the conclusions of law,
and deliver the same to the Clerk for the Judge and serve a copy
thereof upon the adverse party, who may, within five days thereafter, deliver to the Clerk and serve upon the adverse party such proposed amendments or additions as he may desire.
If the prevailing party fails to present such draft as above provided, the adverse party may prepare a draft thereof and deliver
the same to the Clerk for the Judge and serve a copy thereof on the
prevailing party within five days thereafter.
The findings of fact and, where required, the conclusions of law,
shall thereafter be settled by the Judge, and when so settled shall
be engrossed within five days thereafter, and shall be then signed and
filed. A failure to comply with the requirements of this rule may be
deemed to be a waiver of findings by the party so failing.

CENTURY INDEMNITY CO. v. NELSON.
213

217

Opinion of the Court.

parently they proceeded in good faith according to that
view. In so doing, we think they were right. See
Clement v. Phoenix Ins. Co., Fed. Cases 2,882.
ContinentalNational Bank v. National City Bank does
not discuss Rule 42 and went upon facts which seem
materially different from those presented by this record.
Refusal to consider the eleven assignments of error
arose from what we regard as wrongful interpretation
and application of ยง 875 and Rule 42. Their evident
purpose is to insure orderly and timely presentation to
the judge of matters deemed important in advance of
any definite action by him in respect of them. They
should not be so narrowly construed as to defeat their
real purpose.
It is not necessary in the circumstances to treat the
first order for judgment (June 1) as ending "the progress
of the trial." All counsel and the presiding judge seem,
rightly we think, to have 'entertained a wholly different
view and to have acted accordingly.
The challenged judgment must be reversed. The
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

