FONTAINE v. UNITED STATES
Per Curiam

FONTAINE v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT

No. 71-6757.

Argued February 28, 1973-Decided April 2, 1973

On the record in this case, petitioner, who made an uncounseled
guilty plea in open court and was sentenced to prison, may, collaterally attack the plea and is entitled to an evidentiary hearing
under 28 U. S. C. § 2255 since his motion under that provision
set out detailed factual allegations, in part documented by records.
supporting his claim that the plea was coerced, and since it canrnot
be said that the record before the District Court "conclusively
showed" that petitioner was entitled to no relief.
Vacated and remanded.

Steven M. Umin, by appointment of the Court, 409
U. S. 1005, argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Samuel Huntington argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Griswold, Assistant Attorney General Petersen, and
Philip R. Monahan.
PER CURIAM.

On November 13, 1969, the petitioner was arraigned in
a federal district court upon a charge of robbery of a
federally insured bank.' He executed a written waiver
of his right to counsel and to a grand jury indictment,
and pleaded guilty. Before accepting the plea, the trial
judge, proceeding under Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 11, addressed the petitioner personally. The petitioner acknowledged in substance that his plea was given voluntarily and knowingly, that he understood the nature of
He had been arrested by state officers and had been in the cus-

tody of state police and in state jurisdiction until the time of the
federal charge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Per Curiam

c
'r

411 U.S.

the charge and the consequences of the plea, and that
he was in fact guilty. See McCarthy v. United States,
394 U. S. 459, 464-467; cf. Boykin v. Alabama, 395 U. S.
238, 242. The judge then accepted the guilty plea and
subsequently sentenced the petitioner to 20 years in
prison.
On August 6, 1971, the petitioner filed a motion under
28 U. S. C. § 2255 to vacate his sentence on the ground
that his plea of guilty had been induced by a combination
of fear, coercive police tactics, and illness, including
mental illness. The District Judge who had accepted
the petitioner's plea :and sentenced him to prison considered the motion but denied it without an evidentiary
hearing; the District Judge reasoned that since the requirements of Rule 11 had been met, this collateral attack
was per se unavailable, stating: "When the trial court
has so questioned the accused about pleading guilty, the
petitioner cannot now be heard to collaterally attack the
record and deny what was said in open court." The
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed on the
Mne grounds.
Petitioner seeks certiorari to review that judgment; he
urges that under the plain wording of § 2255 and our decision in Machibrodav. United States, 368 U. S. 487, he
was entitled to an evidentiary hearing on his claims.
Petitioner's motion for relief under § 2255,sets out detailed factual allegations regarding alleged circumstances
occurring after his arrest and before his appearance in
court. Those allegations describe physical abuse and illness from a recent gunshot wound that required hospitalization which was documented by records tendered in support of his petition. The records also showed that a
month following the plea he was again hospitalized for
heroin addiction, for aggravation of the earlier gunshot.
wound and for other severe illnesses.. Petitioner further
alleges that prolonged interrogation continued during the

FONTAINE v. UNITED STATES
Per Curiam

213

period preceding his plea. All of this, he claims, coerced
his confession, his waiver of counsel, and the uncounseled
plea of guilty. It is elementary that a coerc d plea is
open to collateral attack. Machibroda v. United.tAtqts%
supra, at 493. See also Waley v. Johnston, 316 U., S.
101; Walker v. Johnston, 312 U. S. 275; Dimmond v.
United States, 432 F. 2d 35, 39; Crow v. United States,
397 F. 2d 284, 285-286. It is equally clear that § 2255
calls for a hearing on such allegations unless "the motion
and the files and records of the case conclusively show
that the prisoner is entitled to no relief ...."
We need not take issue with the Government's generalization that when a defendant expressly represents in
open court, without counsel, that his plea is voluntary
and that -he waived counsel voluntarily; he "may not
ordinarily" repudiate his statements to the sentencing
judge. The objective of Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 11, of
course, is to flush out and resolve all such issues, but like
any procedural mechanism, its exercise is neither always
perfect nor uniformly invulnerable to subsequent challenge calling for an opportunity to prove the allegations.2
On this record, we cannot conclude with the assurance
required by the statutory standard "conclusively show"
that under no circumstances could the petitioner establish
facts warranting relief under § 2255; accordingly, we vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand to
that court to the end that the petitioner be afforded a
hearing on his petition in the District Court.
It is so ordered.
MR. JusTICE WHITE

dissents.

2 The

petitioner has also urged in this Court that his plea must be
vacated because the transcript of his pleading fails to disclose an intelligent waiver of counsel. But this- claim was not raised in the
Court of Appeals or in the petition for certiorari, and we accordingly
express no view upon the question.

