OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

HELVERING,

Counsel for Parties.

316 U. S.

COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL

REVENUE, v. SAFE DEPOSIT & TRUST CO.

OF BALTIMORE, TRUSTEE, ET Al
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 600.

Argued March 9, 1942.-Decided April 13, 1942.

1. The provision of § 302 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926, that in
the gross estate of a decedent there shall be incdded the value of
all property "(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent at the time of his death," does not embrace property as to
which he held merely a general testamentary power of appointment
which he did not exercise. P. 57.
This view is compelled by the legislative, judicial, and administrative history of the legislation.
2. Where property in litigation was claimed by relatives of a decedent as appointees under his will, the validity of which was contested, and, in the alternative, as his heirs--also a matter in dispute-and a share of the property, was allotted to them by a
compromise agreement approved by the court, held:
(1) That so much of the share as was properly attributable
to their claim under the appointment should be included in the
decedent's estate under § 302 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1926, as
"property passing under a general power of appointment exercised
by the decedent . . . by will." P. 63.
(2) The determination of how much of the share should be imputed to the claim based on the attempted exercise of the power of
appointment and how much to the alternative claim-necessarily
an approximation-was a matter for the Board of Tax Appeals.
P. 66.
121 F. 2d 307, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 601, to review a judgment affirming a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 42 B. T. A.
145.

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs.. J. Louis Monarch, Richard

HELVERING v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
56

Opinion of the Court.

H. Demuth, and Arthur A. Armstrong were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Charles McH. Howard for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BtAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Because of the importance in the administration of the
Federal Estate Tax of the questions involved, we granted
certiorari to review the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 121 F. 2d 307, affirming a decision of the Board
of Tax Appeals, 42 B. T. A. 145.
Zachary Smith Reynolds, age 20, died on July 6, 1932.
At the time, he was beneficiary of three trusts: one created
by his father's will in 1918, one by deed executed by his
mother in 1923, and one created by his mother's will in
1924. From his father's trust, the decedent was to receive
only a portion of the income prior to his twenty-eighth
birthday, at which time, if living, he was to become the
outright owner of the trust property and all accumulated
income. His mother's trusts directed that he enjoy the
income for life, subject to certain restrictions before he
reached the age of 28. Each of the trusts gave the decedent a general testamentary power of appointment over
the trust property; in default of exercise of the power the
properties were to go to his descendants, or if he had none,
to his brother and sisters and their issue per stirpes.
The Commissioner included all the trust property within
the decedent's gross estate for the purpose of computing
the Federal Estate Tax. The Board of Tax Appeals and
the Circuit Court of Appeals, however, held that no part
of the trust property should have been included.
I
The case presents two questions, the first of which is
whether the decedent at the time of his death had by virtue
of his general powers of appointment, even if never exer-

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

cised, such an interest in the trust property as to require
its inclusion in his gross estate under §302 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 9, 70. This section
provides:
"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his death
of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible,
wherever situated(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent
at the time of his death;"
The Government argues that at the time of his death
the decedent had an "interest" in the trust properties that
should have been included in his gross estate, because he,
to the exclusion of all other persons, could enjoy the income from them; would have received the corpus of one
trust upon reaching the age of 28; and could alone decide
to whom the benefits of all the trusts would pass at his
death. These rights, it is said, were attributes of ownership substantially equivalent to a fee simple title, subject only to specified restrictions on alienation and the
use of income. The respondents deny that the rights of
the decedent with respect to any of the three trusts were
substantially equivalent to ownership in fee, emphasizing
the practical importance of the restrictions on alienation
and the use of income, and arguing further that the decedent never actually had the capacity to make an effective testamentary disposition of the property because he
died before reaching his majority.
We find it unnecessary to decide between these conflicting contentions on the economic equivalence of the decedent's rights and complete ownership.' For even if we as'In declining to pass upon this issue, we do not reject the principle
we have often recognized that the realities of the taxpayer's economic
interest, rather than the niceties of the conveyancer's art, should determine the power to tax. See Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357, 371,
and cases there cited. Nor do we deny the relevance of this principle

HELVERING v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
56

59

Opinion of the Court.

sume with the Government that the restrictions upon the
decedent's use and enjoyment of the trust properties may
be dismissed as negligible and that he had the capacity to
exercise a testamentary power of appointment, the question still remains: Did the decedent have "at the time of
his death" such an "interest" as Congress intended to be
included in a decedent's gross estate under § 302 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1926? It is not contended that the benefits during life which the trusts provided for the decedent,
terminating as they did at his death, made the trust properties part of his gross estate under the statute. And
viewing § 302 (a) in its background of legislative, judicial,
and administrative history, we cannot reach the conclusion
that the words "interest . . . of the decedent at the
time of his death" were intended by Congress to include
property subject to a general testamentary power of appointment unexercised by the decedent.
The forerunner of § 302 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926
was § 202 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1916, 39 Stat. 777.
In United States v. Field, 255 U. S.257, this Court held
that property passing under a general power of appointment exercised by a decedent was not such an "interest" of
the decedent as the 1916 Act brought within the decedent's gross estate. While the holding was limited to
exercised powers of appointment, the approach of the
Court, the authorities cited, and certain explicit statements I in the opinion left little doubt that the Court
as a guide to statutory interpretation where, unlike here, the language of a statute and its statutory history do not afford more specific
indications of legislative intent. Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331.
'E. g.: "But the existence of the power does iot of itself vest any
estate in the donee." (p. 263.)
"If there be no appointment, it [the property subject to the power]
goes according to the disposition of the donor." (p. 264.)
".... the interest in question [was] not ...
at ...her death." (p. 264.)

property of Mrs. Field

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

retarded property subject to unexercised general powers
of appointment as similarly beyond the scope of the statutory phrase "interest of the decedent." 8
After the Field case, the provision it passed upon was
'rebnacted without change in the Revenue Act of 1921
(§ 402 (a), 42 Stat. 278) and in the Revenue Act of 1924
(§ 302 (a), 43 Stat. 304). If the implications of the Field
opinion with respect to unexercised powers had been considered contrary to the intendment of the words "interest
of the decedent," it is reasonable to suppose that Congress would have added some clarifying amendment.
If the counterparts in the earlier Acts of § 302 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1926 did not require the inclusion of property subject to an unexercised general testamentary power
of appointment within the decedent's gross estate, there
is no basis for concluding that the amendment of 1926
changed the act in this respect. Prior to 1926 an "interest
of the decedent" was to be included in his gross estate only
if subject "after his death . . . to the payment of
the charges against his estate and the expenses of its administration and . .
subject to distribution as part
of his estate." In the 1926 Act this qualification was
abandoned. In the report accompanying the bill which
ertibodied this change, the House Committee on Ways and
Means stated only that "In the interest of certainty it is
recommended that the limiting language . . . shall
be eliminated in the proposed bill, so that the gross estate
shall include the entire interest of the decedent at the time
of his death in all the property."
Nothing in the report
"In Burnet v: Guggenheim, 288 U.'S. 280, 288, this Court stated:
"United States v. Field... holds that under the Revenue Act of 1916
*

.

. the subject of a power created by another is not a part of the

estate .of the decedent to whom the power was committed." It is to
be noted that no distinction was recognized between exercised and
unexercised powers under the rule of the Field case.
'House Report No. 1, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., 15.

HELVERING v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
56

Opinion, of the Court.

suggested that the change was intended to have any relevance to powers of appointment, and no such intention
can reasonably be inferred from the amended section itself.
It is noteworthy that the regulations of the Bureau of
Internal Revenue issued after passage of the 1926 Act
contain no indication that the Treasury Department regarded the amendment as affecting unexercised powers of
appointment. On the other hand, the article pertaining
to powers of appointment was reincorporated in the 1926
regulations with the same content, so far as here relevant,
as the corresponding article in the last regulations issued
prior to the 1926 Act.'
When it was held in the Field case that property subject to an exercised general testamentary power of appointment was not to be included in the decedent's gross
estate under the Revenue Act of 1916, this Court referred to an amendment passed in 1919 which specifically
declared property passing under an exercised general
testamentary power to be part of the decedent's gross
estate. The passage of this amendment, said the Court,
"indicates that Congress'at least was doubtful whether
the previous act included property passing by appointment." ' In the face of such doubts, which cannot
reas6nably be supposed to have been less than doubts
with respect to unexercised powers, Congress nevertheless
specified only that property subject to exercised powers
should be included. From this deliberate singling out
of exercised powers alone, without the corroboration of
the other matters we have discussed, a Congressional intent to treat unexercised powers otherwise can be de5
Article 24 of Treasury Regulations 70 (1926 ed.) under the Revenue
Act of 1926; Article 24 of Treasury Regulations 68 (1924 ed.) under the
Revenue Act of 1924.
' United State8 v. Field, supra, 265.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

duced. At the least, § 302 (f) of the 1926 Act,' the
counterpart of the 1919 amendment referred to in the
Field case, represents a course of action followed by
Congress, since 1919, entirely consistent with a purpose
to exclude, from decedents' gross estates property subject
to unexercised general testamentary powers of appointment.
In no judicial opinion brought to our attention has it
been held that the gross estate of a decedent includes,
for purposes of the Federal Estate Tax, property subject to an unexercised general power. On the contrary,
as the court below points out, "the courts have been
at pains to consider whether property passed under a
general power or not so as to be taxable under Section
302 (f), a consideration which would have been absolutely unnecessary if the estate were taxable under 302
(a) because of the mere existence of a general power
whether exercised or not." ' 121 F. 2d 307, 312. In addition, the uniform administrative practice until this case
arose appears to have placed an interpretation upon the
Federal Estate Tax contrary to that the Government now
urges. No regulations issued under the several revenue
acts, including those in effect at the time this suit was
initiated, prescribe that property subject to an unexer"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined
by including the value at the time of his death 4 all property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated"(f) 'To the extent of any property passing under a general power
of appointment exercised by the decedent (1) by will, or (2) by deed
executed in contemplation of, or intended to take effect in possession
or enjoyment at or after, his death, except in case of a bona fide sale
for an adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth;"
44 Stat. 9, 70-71.
See, e. g., Helvering v Grinnell, 294 U. S. 153; Rothensies V. Fidelity-PhiladelphiaTrust Co., 112 F. 2d 758.

HELVERING v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
56

Opinion of the Court.

cised general testamentary power of appointment should
be included in a decedent's gross estate. Because of the
combined effect of all of these circumstances, we believe
that a departure from the long-standing, generally accepted I construction of § 302 (a), now contested for the
first time by the Government, would override the best
indications we have of Congressional intent.
II
The second question is the treatment to be given, under
§ 302 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1926, to a share of the
trust property passing to the decedent's brother and sisters
as a result of a compromise settlement with other claimants. Should that share be included in whole or in part
within the decedent's gross estate as "property passing
under a general power of -appointment' exercised by the
decedent.., by will"?
The claim of the brother and sisters was based upon:
(1) a purported exercise of the power of appointment in
their favor by the decedent in a will he executed in New
York, and in the alternative, (2) their right to take in default of appointment under the terms of the trusts. Each
of the two children of the decedent (1) denied the validity
of the New York will and (2) challenging the right of the
brother and sisters to take in default, independently asserted his own. These issues, complicated by many other
factors which it is unnecessary here to discuss, were never
finally resolved by judicial decision, although there had
been much litigation involving them in the North Carolina courts. Eventually, the several claimants agreed
to a compromise under which 371/2 7 of the trust property
went to the brother and sisters. The compromise was
See I Paul, Federal Estate and Gift Taxation, p.. 425: "As long as

there is no actual or constructive exercise of the power, there can be
no tax under the present statute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
316 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

confirmed by a judgment of the North Carolina Superior
Court and this judgment was affirmed by the North Carolina Supreme Court. 208 N. C. 578, 182 S. E. 341.
The Government contends that a portion of the share
received by the brother and sisters reflects recognition by
the other claimants as well as by the North Carolina courts
of the assertion that the power of appointment was validly
exercised; and that under the doctrine approved by this
Court in Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, that portion must
be treated as though it actually passed pursuant to an
effective exercise of the power.
The Lyeth case, like the one now before us, came to
this Court after a compromise settlement. An heir of
the decedent had contested the validity of the decedent's
will in which no provision had been made for him. The
heir and the devisees and legatees under the will entered
into a compromise providing that the will be probated
and that a specific sum be paid to the heir. We held
that the money the heir received pursuant to the compromise should be treated, with respect to his tax liability
under the federal income tax statute,0 as if acquired "by
inheritance," for the reason that it was possible for him
to receive it only "because of his standing as an heir and
of his claim in that capacity!"'
The claim of the decedent's brother and sisters here; so
far as based on the validity of the purported appointment,
had its roots, like the claimed invalidity of the will in the
Lyeth case, in an issue never decided in litigation. If it
had been litigated to final judgment by a competent tribunal and the brother and sisters had succeeded in establishing the validity of the exercise of the power, the
Section 22 (b)' (3) of the Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 178,
under which the Lyeth case arose, exempted from the income tax the
"value of property acquired . . . by inheritance
"Lyeth v. Hoey, supra, 196.

. .

HELVERING v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
56

65

Opinion of the Court.

inclusion in the decedent's gross estate of what they would
have received as appointees, pursuant to § 302 (f), could
.not seriously be questioned. In the Lyeth case we said
that "the distinction sought to be made between acquisition through such a judgment and acquisition by a compromise agreement in lieu of such a judgment is too formal
to be sound." 12 There is no less reason for the same conclusion here.
The respondents contend that the principle of the
Lyeth case, announced by the Court with respect to income tax liability, should not be controlling where, as
here, the question is one of estate tax liability. It is urged
that taxes should not be influenced by what occurs after
the taxable event; that it is reasonable to consider a
compromise preceding the receipt of income in connection
"with an income tax; but that a compromise occurring
after the decedent's death, which is the "taxable event"
under an estate tax, should not be considered. Whatever
may be the general rule in this respect, " this Court has
clearly recognized, in Helvering v. Grinnell, 29411. S. 153,
that events subsequent,. to the decedent's death, events
controlled by his beneficiaries, can determine the inclusion
or not of certain assets within the decedent's gross estate
under § 302 (f). In that case, the decedent had -exercised a general testamentary power of appointment, an
act which under § 302 (f) .brings the property subject to
the power within the gross estate. The subsequent renouncement by the appointees of the right to receive by
appoin tment and their election to take as remaindermen
in default of appointment, were held by this Court to
place the property subject to !he power outside the scope
of §302 (f).
12Id.

'See Ithaca Trust Co. v. United.States, 279 U. S. 151, 155.

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

The respondents further contend that, judicial determinations having been made in the state courts that the
attempted appointment was invalid, the share of the
brother and sisters in the compromise reflects only their
alternative claim to the trust property. While there are
explicit statements in the opinion of the North Carolina
Superior Court that the attempted appointment was invalid, these statements must be regarded as superseded
by the opinion which the North Carolina Supreme Court,
whose determination constituted the final approval of the
compromise, rendered on appeal. For, in the course of
that opinion the Supreme Court gave clear recognition
to the alleged validity of the decedent's attempted appointment as a basis of the claim the brother and sisters
asserted. The court stated (208 N. C. 578, 618):
"Serious and grave questions of law and facts were
raised. The judgment sets them out and we refer to
same, all troublesome, but we will consider one for example: The validity and effect of the alleged will executed
in New York by Zachary Smith Reynolds, as a basis of
the offer of the brother and sisters of Zachary Smith
Reynolds."
Inconsistent statements made in the course of a decree issued by the Circuit Court of Baltimore, Maryland, cannot
be regarded as overcoming the force of the foregoing, since
the decree purported only to authorize and direct the
Maryland trustee to divide the trust property in accordance with the compromise as approved in North Carolina.
How much, if any, of the 371/2%.going to the decedent's
brother and sisters should be imputed to the claim based
on the attempted exercise of the power of appointment
and how much to their alternative claim we do not decide. In remanding this case to the Board of Tax Appeals for a determination of this issue, we recognize that
a decision must necessarily be an approximation derived
from the evaluation of elements not easily measured.

HELVERING v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
Dissent.

56

In matters so practical as the administration of tax laws
and in the decision of problems connected with them, a
high degree of precision is often impossible to achieve.
But it is far better to make such a rough estimate as the
data will permit than completely to ignore the realities
of the compromise because of the difficulties of
evaluation."4
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed with directions to remand to the Board of Tax
Appeals for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR.

TICE FRANKFURTER

and MR.

JUSTICE BYRNES

Jus-

concur in

the opinion of the court upon the first question decided.
They dissent from the decision of the second question.
They'are of opinion that that question should be
answered in favor of the respondents on the 'authority
of Helvering v. Grinnell, 294 U. S. 153, and that Lyeth
v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, furnishes no support for a different answer.
.The estate in question is not that of the decedent.
The property is a portion of the estates of his mother
and father. It is conceded that no part of either estate
passed by virtue of the execution by the decedent of
the powers of appointment with which he was clothed.
The property passed under the deed and wills of his
parents, and that passage was the taxable event. If he
had voluntarily refrained from exercising the power, his
estate would not have been liable to pay an estate tax,
for the property would then have passed from the estates
of his mother and father to the distributees. But it has
been decided by competent tribunals that he did not
exercise the power, although he attempted so to do; and,
Cf. Udted States v. Ludeiy, 274 U. S. 295, 302.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Disent.

-

316U.S.

in any case, there is no determination here, or elsewhere,
that the power was ever exercised. This being so, the
question is whether anything passed from him to his
relatives under the intestate law at his death. It is
plain that nothing did so pass.
In Helvering v. Grinnell,supra, the decedent exercised
the power, but the appointees, as was their right under
state law, elected not to take under the appointment but
to take as remaindermen directly from the estate of the
creator of the power, and it was held that § 302 could
not be invoked to impose a tax upon the estate of the
decedent. . It was there said: "
. "The crucial words are 'property passing under a general power of appointment exercised by the decedent
by will.' Analysis of this clause discloses three distinct
requisites-(1) the existence of a general power of appointment; (2) an exercise of that power
by the decedent by will; and (3) the passing of the property in
virtue of such exercise. Clearly, the general power
existed and was exercised; and this, is not disputed.
But it is equally clear that no property passed under the
power or as a result of its exercise since that result was
definitely rejected by the beneficiaries. If they had
wholly refused to take the property, itcould not well be
said that the property had passed under the power, for
in that event it would not have passed at all. Can it
properly be said that because the beneficiaries elected
to take the property under a distinct and separate title,
the property nevertheless passed under the power?
Plainly enough, we think, the answer must be in the
negative."
Lyeth. v. Hoey, supra, decides nothing to the contrary.
In that case, the property in question was the property
of the decedent himself. He disposed of it by will. 'The
will was contested. The contest was compromised. and,
as a result, those who. were his heirs at law received at

MAGRUDER v. REALTY CORP.
56

Syllabus.

least a portion of that which they would have received
as his heirs in the absence of a will. Thus, as a result
of the compromise, property did pass from the decedent
to his heirs at law, and it was held that, as they were
his heirs, they took by inheritance in contemplation of
the Revenue Act. Here, nothing passed by virtue of the
exercise of the power and no portion of' the decedent's
estate passed under the law of descent and distribution,
or as property would have passed under that law from
the decedent to the beneficiaries of the compromise.
We are at a loss to understand how the Board of Tax
Appeals can be permitted to find that any taxable transfer occurred within the meaning of § 302 of the Revenue
Act of 1926. Moreover, the compromise was motivated
by considerations other than the invalidity of the power,
for the claims of the decedent's children had a large
influence in bringing it about. We cannot perceive how
the Board can calculate the relative weight of these conflicting claims and thus assess as taxable an apportioned
part of the total amount the decedent's collateral relatives received, and thus determine what part of the property passed under the power and what part did not.
MAGRUDER,, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WASHINGTON, BALTIMORE &ANNAPOLIS REALTY CORP.CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 601. Argued March 9; 10, 1942.-Decided April 13, 1942.
1. A corporation which was organized for the purpose of liquidating the
properties of another corporation, and which, since its organization,
has been carrying on negotiations for the sale of the properties, selling
them from time to time as satisfactory offers are received, and
renting unsold properties under short term leases in an attempt to
earn the carrying charges pending ultimate sale, was "carrying on

