WALEY v. JOHNSTON.
Syllabus.

98

been exhausted. Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S. 522; McComb v. Commissioners,91 U. S. 1, 2; McMaster v. Gould,
276 U. S. 284; Southern Electric Co. v. Stoddard, 269
U. S. 186; Stratton v. Stratton, 239 U. S. 55; Mullen v.
Western Union Beef Co., 173 U. S. 116; Great Western
Telegraph Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339. Hence it is
the last state tribunal-here the court en banc--to which
the cause could be brought for review which is the "highest court of a state in which a decision could be had"
within the meaning of the jurisdictional statute, regardless of the particular description or designation which may
be applied to it by state statutes.Upon application to this Court for review of the judgment of a state court, it is the petitioner's burden to show
affirmatively that we have jurisdiction. Memphis Natural Gas Co. v. Deeler, 315 U. S. 649. As the record fails
to disclose that the judgment, review of which is now
sought, is that of the highest court of the state in which
a decision could be had, we are without jurisdiction and
the writ must be
Dismissed.
WALEY v. JOHNSTON, WARDEN.
ON

PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THt NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1006.

Decided April 27, 1942.

1. A conviction on a plea of guilty coerced by a federal law enforcement officer is wanting in due process of law. P. 103.
2. A plea of guilty which because of coercion will not support a con-:

viction has no validity as a waiver of the right to assail a conviction based on the plea. P. 104.
3. The issue of whether a conviction was 'oid because based on a
-coerced plea of guilty, when dependent on facts dehor8 the record

of the criminal case, and not open to considerition or review on
appeal, is determinable in habeas corpus. P. 104.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

4. A decision denying a writ of error coram nobis in a criminal

case, rendered on the face of the petition and without a hearing,
and not shown to have involved the issue raised later by a petition for habeas corpus, held not res judicata as applied to the
latter. P. 105.
5. When a material issue of fact is raised in habeas corpus the

prisoner must be produced and the matter heard by the court or
judge. P. 104.
124 F. 2d 587, reversed.
C mRAi (herein granted) to review a judgment
which affirmed a judgment denying an application for a
writ of habeas corpus, 38 F. Supp. 408.
Harmon Metz Waley, pro se.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Berge, and Mr. Oscar A. Provost for respondent.
PE CURAM.

Petitioner filed his petition for habeas corpus in the
District Court, alleging upon oath that he had been
coerced, by intimidation and threats by an agent of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, to plead guilty to an
indictment for kidnaping, and that he is held in custody
by respondent under the consequent judgment of conviction and commitment.
The petition stated generally that threats of Federal
Bureau of Investigation agents to throw petitioner out
of a window and "beat me up" "didn't bother me." But it
specifically alleged that petitioner's plea of guilty had
been induced by the threats of a named Federal Bureau
of Investigation agent to publish false statements and
manufacture false evidence that the kidnaped person
had been injured, and by such publications and false
evidence to incite the public and to cause the State of
Waghington to hang the petitioner and the other defendants.

WALEY v. JOHNSTON.
101

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court ordered respondent to show cause
why a writ should not issue, and appointed counsel to
represent petitioner. Respondent's return to the order
included certified copies of the docket entries, indictment,
transcript of proceedings on arraignment, entry of plea,
judgment and sentence, and commitment .papers. The
transcript discloses that the trial court had explained to
petitioner his right to be assisted by counsel and had
appointed counsel who represented him at the trial. The
return'also included an affidavit of a special agent of the
Bureau of Investigation, not the one mentioned in the
petition, stating that petitioner, in affiant's presence, voluntarily signed two statements confessing his guilt, and
that no threat or promise to petitioner of any kind was
made in affiant's presence. The return made no denial of
the allegations of coercion specifically set forth and relied
on in the petition.
The District Court denied the application for the writ
without hearing evidence and without directing the production of the prisoner in court. It concluded that the
allegations of coercion by threatening to publish false
statements and manufacture false evidence were inconsistent with petitioner's statement that threats by Government agents to throw him out of the window and beat him
up "didn't bother" him; that the transcript filed with the
return showed that petitioner was neither "actuated nor
induced by fear"; and that an earlier decision of the sentencing -judge denying petitioner's application for a writ
of coram nobis was res judicata.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the
order of the District Court, 124 F. 2d 587. In view of
the fact that petitioner when he pleaded guilty had been
represented by counsel, a majority of the court thought
he could not by habeas corpus attack his sentence on the
ground that his plea was coerced. The opinion states that
petitioner "waived the defense and the constitutional

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

right, if any he had, and cannot assert it now on habeas
corpus proceedings." The case is before us on a motion
of petitioner to proceed in forma pauperis on his petition
for certiorari and the Government's confession of error.
We grant the motion and the petition for certiorari.
The Government confesses error for the reason that the
habeas corpus petition raises the material issue whether
the plea was in fact coerced by the particular threats alleged which stand undenied on the record, and that upon
that issue petitioner is entitled to a hearing in accordance
with Walker v. Johnston,312 U. S. 275.
True, petitioner's allegations in the circumstances of
this case may tax credulity. But in view of their specific
nature, their lack of any necessary relation to the other
threats alleged, and the failure of respondent to deny
or to account for his failure to deny them specifically, we
cannot say that the issue was not one calling for a hearing
within the principles laid down in Walker v. Johnston,
supra. If the allegations are found to be true, petitioner's
constitutional rights were infringed. For a conviction on
a plea of guilty coerced by a federal law enforcement officer is no more consistent with due process than a conviction supported by a coerced confession. Brain v.
United States, 168 U. S. 532, 543; Chambers v. Florida,
309 U. S. 227. And if his plea was so coerced as to deprive it of validity to support the conviction, the coercion
likewise deprived it of validity as a waiver of his right
to assail the conviction. Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458,
467.
The issue here was appropriately raised by the habeas
corpus petition. The facts relied on are dehors the record
and their effect on the judgment was not open to consideration and review on appeal. In such circumstances the
use of the writ in the federal courts to test the constitutional validity of a conviction for crime is not restricted
to those cases where the judgment of conviction is void

LABOR BOARD v. NEVADA COPPER CO.
101

105

etatement of the Case.

for want of jurisdiction of the trial court to render it.
It extends also to those exceptional cases where the conviction has been in disregard of the constitutional rights
of the accused, and where the writ is the only effective
means of preserving his rights. Moore v. Dempsey, 261
U. S. 86; Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103; Bowen v.
Johnston,306 U. S. 19, 24.
The principle of res judicatadoes not apply to a decision
on habeas corpus refusing to discharge a prisoner, Sa/inger
v. Loisel, 265 U. S. 224. It does not appear that on petitioner's earlier application for a writ of coram nobis the
*same issue was raised as that now presented. The earlier
application was denied for insufficiency upon its face and
without a hearing. There is thus no basis for the holding
of the District Court that the denial is res judicataof the
present petition.
The judgment below will be vacated and the cause remanded for a hearing in conformity to Walker v. Johnston,
supra.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
NEVADA CONSOLIDATED COPPER CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 774. Argued April 8, 1942.-D.ecided April 27, 1942.
Findings of fact by the National Labor Relations Board supported
by evidence are conclusive. P. 106.
122 F. 2d 587, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. 789, to review a judgmontrefusing

to enforce an order of the National Labor Relations Board.

