BRILLHART v. EXCESS INS. CO.
486

Counsel for Parties.

which the petitioners brought to it would, without more,
terminate the litigation. For the time within which a
direct appeal might have been brought to this Court under § 266 has elapsed. In the present circumstances, -however, we think the petitioners' right to such an appeal
should be preserved. Cf. Phillipsv. United States, supra,
254. The judgment below is therefore vacated and the
cause remanded to the District Court for the entry of a
fresh decree, from which a timely appeal may be taken
if the petitioners so desire.
It is so ordered.

BRILLHART, ADMINISTRATOR, v. EXCESS INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 772. Argued April 8, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
Before dismissing a suit brought under the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act and presenting only local questions, upon the ground that
another suit involving the same subject matter and between the
same parties is pending in a state court, the federal court must
determine in the first instance whether the claims set up by the
plaintiff have been foreclosed by local law, or can adequately be
tested in the suit in the state court. P. 495.
121 F. 2d 776, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 606, to review a decree which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing a bill filed
under the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act.
Mr. Clarence C. Chilcott for petitioner.
Messrs. Dick H. Woods and Paul R. Stinson for respondent.

492.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

316 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Excess Insurance Company qfVAmerica, the respondent here, brought this suit for a declaratory judgment to determine its rights under a reinsurance agreement made in 1932 with the Central Mutual Insurance
Company of Chicago, Illinois. By that contract the respondent agreed to reimburse Central, within specified
limits, for any "ultimate net loss" (defined as "the sum
actually paid in cash in settlement of losses") sustained
by Central under automobile public liability policies
thereafter to be issued. Central undertook to notify the
respondent of any accident that might be covered by the
reinsurance agreement. In 1934, Central issued a public liability policy to Cooper-Jarrett, Inc. Later in that
year, the petitioner's decedent was killed by a truck
leased by Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., and suit was brought
against the latter in a Missouri state court. Central refused to defend the suit, however, claiming that the policy did not cover the accident.
. While the suit was pending, both Central and CooperJarrett, Inc., encountered financial difficulties. By order
of an Illinois state court, Central was liquidated and all
claims against it barred. Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., filed a
petition for reorganization under § 77B in the Missouri
federal District Court, and the final decree in that proceeding discharged it from any judgment that had been
or might be obtained by the petitioner. Co'oper-Jarrett,
Inc., having abandoned defense of the suit, the petitioner
obtained a default judgment of $20,000 against it on April
.22,, 1939, and subsequently instituted garnishment proceedings against Central in a Missouri state court. Being
tunableto recover any part of the judgment from either
Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., or Central, the petitioner on May

BRILLHART v. EXCESS INS. CO.
491

Opinion of the Court.

29, 1940, made the respondent a party to the garnishment
proceeding through service on the Missouri superintendent of insurance.
But, in the meantime, the respondent had filed this suit
for a declaratory judgment in the federal District Court for
Kansas. Its bill showed diversity of the parties' citizenship and the requisite jurisdictional amount. It alleged,
inter alia, that, when the bill in the federal suit was filed,
the respondent was not a party to the garnishment proceeding in the state court; that, in violation of the terms
of the reinsurance agreement, Central had never notified
the reFpondent either of the accident resulting in the
death of the petitioner's decedent or of the suit brought
against Cooper-Jarrett, Inc.; that the respondent's only.
obligation under the reinsurance agreement was to indemnify Central against loss for sums actually paid in
cash in settlement of losses for which Central was liable,
and, since Central had never satisfied the claim against
Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., the respondent could not be obligated in any way under the reinsurance agreement; that
Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., was not liable to the petitioner for
the death of his decedent; that, even if it were, Central
was obligated to defend the suit, and its failure to do so
discharged the respondent of any liability under the reinsurance agreement; that, even if it were originally liable,
the discharge of Central and Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., had the
effect of releasing the respondent; and that, in ary event,
the default judgment against Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., had
been fraudulently obtained'
The petitioner moved to dismiss the suit, principally on
the ground that the issues involved in the suit could now
be decided in the garnishment proceeding*pending in the
Missouri state court. The District Court dismissed the
bill, apparently because of a reluctance to prolong the

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

litigation,' without considering whether the claims asserted by the respondent could, under Missouri law, be
raised in the pending garnishment proceeding. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that dismissal of the suit was an
abuse of discretion, but, instead of remitting the cause
for a proper exercise of the District Court's discretion,
reversed the judgment with directions that the District
Court proceed to a determination on the merits. 121 F.
2d 776. In view of the important question affecting the
inter-relationship of the state and federal courts in the
administration of the Federal Declaratory Judgments
Act, 28 U. S. C. § 400, we brought the case here. 314
U. S. 606.
Although the District Court had jurisdiction of the suit
under the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act, it was
under no compulsion to exercise that jurisdiction. The
petitioner's motion to dismiss the bill was addressed to
the discretion of the court. Aetna' Casualty Co. v.
Quarles, 92 F. 2d 321; Maryland Casualty Co. v. Consumers Finance Service, 101 F. 2d 514; American Automobile Ins. Co. v. Freundt, 103 F. 2d 613; see Note, 51 Yale
L. J. 511. Compare CanadaMalting Co. v. PatersonCo.,
285 U. S. 413, 422-23; Douglas v. New York, N. H. & H.
R. Co., 279 U. S. 377. The motion rested upon the claim
It is difficult to ascertain from the record the precise grounds for
the District Court's action. Some light is shed by the following
colloquy, which occurred at the conclusion of the argument upon the

motion to dismiss the bill:
"The Court: As I understand, the merits of the case with reference
to the death of this decedent have never been tried?
"Mr. Woods [counsel for the respondent]: That is correct, and it

is almost six years now.
"The Court: Well, I don't think that this court will interferewith
that. The case will be dismissed. You may draw a journal showing
that after this long lapse of time, after your litigation in Missouri, that

this court feels in its discretion that it'ought not to interfere with that
litigation in any -way."

BRILLHART v. EXCESS INS. CO.
491

495

Opinion of the Court.

that, since another proceeding was pending in a state court
in which all the matters in controversy between the
parties could be fully adjudicated, a declaratory judgment
in the federal court was unwarranted. The correctness
of this claim was certainly relevant in determining
whether the District Court should assume jurisdiction
and proceed to determine the rights of the parties. Ordinarily it would be uneconomical as well as vexatious for a
federal court to proceed in a declaratory judgment suit
where another suit is pending in a state court presenting
the same issues, not governed by federal law, between
the same parties. Gratuitous interference with the
orderly and comprehensive disposition of a state court
litigation should be avoided.
Where a District Court is presented with a claim such as
was made here, it should ascertain whether the questions
in controversy between the parties to the federal suit, and
which are not foreclosed under the applicable substantive
law, can better be settled in the proceeding pending in
the state court. This may entail inquiry into the scope
of the pending state court proceeding and the nature of
defenses open there. The federal court may have to con-,
sider whether the claims of all parties in interest can satisfactorily be adjudicated in that proceeding, whether
necessary parties have been joined, whether such parties
are amenable to process in that proceeding, etc.
We do not now attempt a comprehensive enumeration
of what in other cases may be revealed as relevant factors'
governing the exercise of a District Court's discretion.
It is enough that it appears from the record before us that
the District Court did-not consider whether, under applicable local law, the claims sought to be adjudicated by the
respondent in this suit for a declaratory judgment had
either been foreclosed by Missouri law or could adequately
be tested in the garnishment proceeding pending in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Missouri state court. This was a matter for determination, certainly in the first instance, by the District Court.
Nor did the Circuit Court of Appeals, in reversing the
judgment of the District Court, purport to find that under
controlling Missouri law the issues set up by the respondent in this suit could not be contested in the pending
Missouri proceeding.'
Whether and under what circumstances a reinsurer can
be reached through a judgment against the insured are
questions of local law. Whether the judgment against
Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., could serve as a basis for garnishment proceedings against the respondent was therefore
a matter of Missouri law. But that issue was never tendered before the Kansas District Court; that court did
not profess to pass upon it, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals, in reversing the decree of dismissal, shed no
light upon it.
If the lower courts had found that -under Missouri law
the respondent's claims could not adequately be tested
in the pending garnishment proceeding, or that Missouri
2
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals contains a single
sentence which, if read without reference to its context, might appear
to be such a finding: "The issues in the garnishment action could
not determine the liability of appellant [the respondent here] under
its reinsurance contract." 121 F. 2d at 778. But, as we read its
opinion, the court below clearly was referring only to the garnishment
action against Central before the respondent was joined as a party.
Of course, at that time the respondent would have no opportunity
to raise in the garnishment proceeding the claims which it asserted in
the federal suit for a declaratory judgment. But when the petitioner's
motion to dismiss the federal suit was filed, the, respondent had been
made a party to the garnishment proceeding. And, as its opinion
shows, the Circuit Court of Appeals did not find that under Missouri
law the claims raised by the respondent in the federal suit, which were
governed by Missouri law and were not previously foreclosed by it,
could not be adjudicated in the garnishment proceeding after the
respondent had been joined' as a party.

BRILLHART v. EXCESS INS. CO.
491

Opinion of the Court.

law on the subject was doubtful, and upon the basis of
such a finding had taken jurisdiction of this suit for a
declaratory judgment, we would not disturb such a finding. But no such finding can be extracted from this
record. And it is not for us to attempt to pronounce
independently upon Missouri law. To do so would be
to disregard the limitations inherent in our appellate
jurisdiction. It is not our function to find our way
through a maze of local statutes and decisions on so tech-,
nical and specialized a subject as the scope of a garnishment proceeding in a particular jurisdiction. For one
thing, it is too easy to lose our way. For example, there
are numerous decisions of the Supreme Court of Missouri
which declare a general principle that the garnishee can
assert any defenses in a garnishment proceeding that
would be open in a suit brought against him by the judgment debtor. E. g., Weil v. Tyler, 38 Mo. 545, 547; McDermott v. Donegan, 44 Mo. 85, 89; Sheedy v. Second
National Bank, 62 Mo. 17, 24. We do not cite these
decisions to show that the respondent's claims in this
case could adequately be tested in the garnishment proceeding pending in the Missouri state court. For the crux
of our ruling is that we should not be called upon to make
such a determination in the first instance. But these utterances of the Missouri Supreme Court do serve as a
warning that scattered opinions of an intermediate appellate court of a State may convey only doubts and
confusion to one inexpert in the law of that State and
yet be entirely clear and consistent when placed in the
mosaic of the whole law of that State. Compare Mr.
Justice Brandeis dissenting in Railroad Commission v.
Los Angeles Ry. Corp., 280 U. S. 145, 164. We are not
concerned here with the burden of proof in establishing
facts as to which ,only the parties to a private litigation
are interested. We are concerned rather with the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DouGLAs, J., concurring.

316 U. S.

the federal courts to determine legal issues governing the
proper exercise of their jurisdiction.
The cause should be remanded to the District Court
in order that it may properly exercise its discretion in
passing upon the petitioner's motion to dismiss this suit.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concurring:
If we had here only the question as to whether the
issues framed by respondent in this suit could be litigated
in the statutory garnishment proceeding in Missouri, I
would agree with the views expressed by the CHIEF JUSTICE. But there is the further, and for me the controlling,
question whether, as stated by the majority, the claims
raised by respondent had been "previously foreclosed"
under Missouri law. It is a fair inference from this record that respondent, like Central, received notice and had
an opportunity to defend the suit brought against Cooper-Jarrett, although all of the attendant circumstances
do not clearly appear. Under Missouri law the general
rule seems to be that notice and opportunity to defend
binds the reinsurer on judgments against the reassured.
See e. g. Strong V. Phoenix Ins. Co., 62 Mo. 289; Gantt
v. American Central Ins. Co., 68 Mo. 503; City of St.
Joseph v. Union Ry. Co., 116 Mo. 636, 643, 22 S. W. 794;
Finkle v. Western Auto. Ins. Co., 224 Mo. App. 285, 300,
26 S. W. 2d 843. By statute (6 Mo. Stat. Ann. §§ 5898,
5899) the liability of the insurance company becomes
absolute when loss occurs; and judgment against the
insured establishes privity between the injured party
and the insurer. See Schott v. Auto Ins. Underwriters,
326 Mo. 92, 31 S. W. 2d 7; Lajoie v. Central West
Casualty Co., 228 Mo. App. 701, 71 S. W. 2d 803; Taverno v. American Auto Ins. Co., 232 Mo. App. 820, 112
S. W. 2d 941. The problem is whether by reason of the
insurer's liability under the policy and the statute, and

BRILLHART v. EXCESS INS. CO.
491

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

respondent's liability under its reinsurance contract (see
e. g. Homan v. Employers Reinsurance Corp., 345 Mo.
650, 136 S. W. 2d 289), notice and opportunity to defend the earlier suit were sufficient (Schott v. Auto Ins.
Underwriters,supra) to bind respondent as reinsurer. Respondent's charges of fraud center on the adequacy of the
notice which it received and the failure of the insured and
the insurer to defend. That seems to be but one phase of
the question whether under Missouri law respondent was
bound by the judgment in the earlier suit.
The exercise of jurisdiction under the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act is certainly not compulsory; it is
discretionary. Borchard, Declaratory Judgments (2d ed.),
p. 312. If it may fairly be said under Missouri law that
respondenit was bound by its failure or refusal to defend
the earlier suit after notice, then it would clearly be an
abuse of discretion for the District Court to take or at
least to retain jurisdiction of the cause in case it appeared
after a hearing on that issue that respondent was so
bound.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting:

I think the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was right and should be affirmed.
Respondent, reinsurer of an automobile public liability
insurance policy, has been made a party to a garnishment
proceeding instituted under the Missouri statutes by
petitioner, who has secured a Missouri default judgment
upon a liability of the insured said to be covered by
the policy. By this suit brought in the federal District
Court for Kansas, respondent now seeks among other
things to set aside the judgment, so far as it establishes
liability against the insurer, as fraudulently obtained.
Respondent's bill of complaint states a cause of action
which it is entitled to have adjudicated in some court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
STONm, C. J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

The considerations suggested by MR. JuicE DOUGLAS
are of course relevant to the merits of respondent's case,

and should be tried with other issues wherever and whenever they are to be tried. As the District Court below
had jurisdiction-and as no other reason is advanced for
declining jurisdiction-it was plainly its duty to hear
and decide all the issues necessary for disposition of the
case unless it was made to appear with reasonable certainty that the issues could be adjudicated in the Missouri courts. Petitioner assumed that burden by his motion in the District Court for an order dismissing the suit
and remitting respondent to the state courts. The data,
including statements of the facts spread upon the record,
which he submitted in support of the motion have now
received the consideration of three courts. None of them
has said, and ii the circumstances of this case no federal
court could say, either with binding authority or with
reasonable certainty, that respondent can litigate in the
Missouri courts its asserted right to set aside petitioner's judgment for fraud. Petitioner, who is not a citizen
or resident of Missouri and not subject to the jurisdiction of its courts unless he voluntarily appears in an action there, has not said, and in this Court has carefully
avoided saying, that he would appear in any independent
suit brought in the Missouri courts to attack the
judgment.
Further, it affirmatively appears that the question
whether respondent can litigate its present cause of action
in the statutory garnishment proceeding in Missouri is
at best not free from doubt. The Missouri garnishment
statutes do not deal expressly with the nature of the issues
that can be raised in a garnishment proceeding. Missouri
Revised Statutes, 1939, §§ 1560-1589. But the Missouri
intermediate appellate courts seem to agree that in such
a proceeding the garnishee cannot challenge the validity
and effectiveness of the judgment save for want of juris-

BRILLHART v. EXCESS INS. CO.
491

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

diction of the court which rendered it. Potterv. Whitten,
161 Mo. App. 118, 131-32, 142 S. W. 453; Nevatt v.
Springfield Normal School, 79 Mo. App. 198, 201; Reid,

Murdock & Co. v. Mercurio, 91 Mo. App. 673, 678. The
Missouri Supreme Court has never disapproved these
decisions.
The Court of Appeals below in deciding that the cause
should be litigated in the present suit declared, 121 F.
2d at 778:
"A federal court may not refuse to assume jurisdiction
merely on the ground that another remedy is available
or because another suit is pending, if the controversy
between the parties will not necessarily be determined
therein. Maryland Casualty Co. v. Consumers Finance
Service, Inc., 101 F. 2d 514."
Here it is evident, despite the diligence of counsel, that
the ability of respondent to assert its cause of action in the
Missouri garnishment proceeding is uncertain and must
remain so until the Supreme Court of Missouri has spoken.
Just how respondent's ability to maintain its suit in Missouri can be made more certain or even reasonably probable, or how the cause of justice will be advanced by compelling respondent to begin over again the nearly three
years' course of litigation which it has now traveled, is not
revealed. The concededly erroneous decision of the District Court has been reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Unless this Court is now prepared to say that respondent's ability to maintain the suit in the state court
is free from doubt, we-should leave the judgment undisturbed and not deny to respondent the benefit of the federal jurisdiction which Congress has sanctioned. One of
the chief purposes of creating the diversity of citizenship
jurisdiction was to afford to suitors an unclouded opportunity to assert their rights in the federal courts when the
exigencies of state court jurisdiction of subject matter or

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

502

316 U. S.

Syllabus.

parties, or both together, as in this case, render doubtful
their ability to proceed in the state courts. In such a case
a suitor ought not to be penalized, as respondent plainly
is, for invoking the federal jurisdiction.
The Missouri law, if not conclusively against the assertion of the present cause in the Missouri garnishment proceeding, is at least so doubtful that respondent ought not
to be compelled to seek the futile prophecy of the district
court in Kansas as to how the Missouri courts will resolve
an unsettled point of Missouri practice. Since petitioner
has failed to sustain his burden of showing that the case
is a proper one for dismissal, the District Court should exercise its jurisdiction by proceeding to determine the
merits without further delay. If this litigation is ever to
end, it is important for it to get started.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

join in

this dissent.

FAITOUTE IRON & STEEL CO.

ET AL.

V. CITY OF

ASBURY PARK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF
NEW JERSEY.

No. 896. Argued April 28, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
Under the New Jersey Municipal Finance Act, a plan for the adjustment or composition of the claims of creditors of an insolvent municipality may be made binding on all creditors, if approved by the municipality, by the Municipal Finance Commission, and by creditors
representing 85 per cent of the indebtedness affected, and if adopted,
under prescribed conditions, by the State Supreme Court. As applied to holders of defaulted bonds and interest coupons of a municipality, who, under an adjustment decreed by the state court, were
obliged to convert *heir bonds into others bearing a lower rate of

interest, held:
1. The Act is not inoperative as inconsistent with the bankruptcy
power exercised by Congress. P. 507.

