52

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

VALENTINE, POLICE COMMISSIONER OF THE
CITY OF NEW YORK, v. CHRESTENSEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 707. Argued March 31, 1942.-Decided April 13, 1942.
1. A municipal ordinance forbidding distribution in the streets of
printed handbills bearing commercial advertising matter, held
constitutional. P. 54.
2. A constitutional right. to distribute in the streets handbills of
printed commercial advertising matter, contrary to a municipal
ordinance, can not be acquired by adding to the handbills matter
of possible public interest which by itself might be privileged but
which is added with the purpose of evading the prohibition of the
ordinance with respect to the advertising matter. P. 55.
122 F. 2d 511, reversed.
CERTIoRARI, 314 U. S. 604, to review a decree which
affirmed a decree, 34 F. Supp. 596, permanently enjoining the Police Commissioner of the City of New York
from interfering with distribution of respondent's handbills.

Mr. William C. Chaner,with whom Mr. Leo Brown was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Walter W. Land for respondent.
Briefs of amici curiae were .filed by Messrs. Jerome I.
Myers and Charles S. Rhyne on behalf of the National
Institute of Municipal Law Officers, in support of petitioner; and by Mr. Osmond K. Fraenkel on behalf of the
American Civil Liberties Union, urging affirmance.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The respondent, a citizen of Florida, owns a former
United States Navy submarine which he exhibits for profit.

VALENTINE -v. CHRESTENSEN.
52

Opinion of the Court.

In 1940 he brought it to New York City and moored it at
a State pier in the East River. He prepared and printed
a handbill advertising the boat and soliciting visitors for
a stated admission fee. On his attempting to distribute
the bill in the city streets, he was advised by the petitioner,
as Police Commissioner, that this activity would violate
ยง 318 of the Sanitary Code, which forbids distribution in
the streets of commercial and business advertising matter,'
but was told that he might freely distribute handbills
solely devoted to "information or a public protest."
Respondent thereupon prepared and showed to the
petitioner, in proof form, a double-faced handbill. On one
side was a revision of the original, altered by the removal
of the statement as to admission fee but consisting only
of commercial advertising. On the other side was a protest against the action of the City Dock Department in
refusing the respondent wharfage facilities at a city pier
for the exhibition of his submarine; but no commercial
advertising. The Police Department advised that distribution of a bill containing only the protest would not
violate ยง 318, and would not be restrained, but that distribution of the double-faced bill was prohibited. The
respondent, nevertheless, proceeded with the printing of
his proposed bill and started to distribute it. He was
restrained by the police,
and circulars.--No person shall throw, cast or
distribute, or cause or permit to be thrown, cast oi' distributed, any
handbill, circular, card, booklet, placard or other advertising matter
whatsoever in or upon any street or public place, or in a front yard or
court yard, or on any stoop, or in the vestibule or any hall of any building, or in a letterbox therein; provided that nothing herein contained
shall be deemed to prohibit or otherwise regulate the delivery of any
such matter by the United States postal service, or prohibit the distribution of sample copies of newspapers regularly sold by the copy or by
annual subscription. This section is not intended to prevent the lawful
distribution of anything other than commercial and business advertising
matter."
1 "Handbills, cards

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Respondent then brought this suit to enjoin the petitioner from interfering with the distribution. In his
complaint he alleged diversity of citizenship; an amount
in controversy in excess of $3,000; the acts and threats of
the petitioner under the purported authority of ยง 318;
asserted a consequent violation of ยง 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution; and prayed an injunction. The District Court granted an interlocutory injunction,2 and after trial on a stipulation from which the
facts appear as above recited, granted a permanent injunction. The Circuit Court of Appeals, by a divided court,
affirmed.'
The question is whether the application of the ordinance
to the respondent's activity was, in the circumstances, an
unconstitutional abridgement of the freedom of the press

and of speech.
1. This court has unequivocally held that the streets are
proper places for the exercise of the freedom of communicating information and disseminating opinion and that,
though the states and municipalities may appropriately
regulate the privilege in the public interest, they may not
unduly burden or proscribe its employment in these public
thoroughfares. We are equally clear that the Constitution imposes no such restraint on government as respects
purely commercial advertising. Whether, and to what
extent, one may promote or pursue a gainful occupation
in the streets, to what extent such activity shall be adjudged a derogation of the public right of user, are
matters for legislative judgment. The question is not
whether the legislative body may interfere with the
harmless pursuit of a lawful business, but whether it must
permit such pursuit by what it deems an undesirable invasion of, or interference with, the full and free use of the
'34 F. Supp. 596.
'122 F. 2d 511.

VALENTINE v. CHRESTENSEN.
52

Opinion of the Court.

highways by the-people in fulfillment of the public use
to which streets are dedicated. If the respondent was
attempting to use the streets of New York by distributing commercial advertising, the prohibition of the code
provision was lawfully invoked against his conduct.
2. The respondent contends that, in truth, he was engaged in the dissemination of matter proper for public
information, none the less so because there was inextricably attached to the medium of such dissemination commercial advertising matter. The court below appears to
have taken this view, since it adverts to the the difficulty
of apportioning, in a given case, the contents of the communication as between what is of public interest and what
is for private, profit. We need not indulge nice appraisal
based upon subtle distinctions in the present instance nor
assume possible cases not now presented. It is enough
for the present purpose that the stipulated facts justify
the conclusion that the affixing of the protest against
official conduct to the advertising circular was with the
intent, and for the purpose, of evading the prohibition of
the ordinance. If that evasion were successful, every
merchant who desires to broadcast advertising leaflets
in the streets need only append a civic appeal, or a moral
platitude, to achieve immunity from the law's command.
The decree is
Reversed.

