MISHAWAKA MFG. CO. v. KRESGE CO.

203

Opinion of the Court.

MISHAWAKA RUBBER & WOOLEN MANUFACTURING CO. v. S. S. KRESGE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 649. Argued April 1, 1942.--Decided May 4, 1942.
In order that he may recover profits under § 19 of the Trademark
Act, the trademark owner is not required to prove that the purchasers of goods bearing the infringing mark were induced by it
to believe that the goods were the goods of the trademark owner
and purchased for that reason, and that they would otherwise have
bought of him. P. 206.
119 F. 2d 316, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 603, to review the affirmance of a
decree in a suit to enjoin infringements of a trademark

and for an accounting of profits.
Mr. George L. Wilkinson, with whom Mr. Eugene M.
Giles was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William B. Giles for respondent.
Messrs. Milton Handler and Arthur T. Vanderbilt filed
a brief on behalf of the Pepsi-Cola Company, as amicus
curiae.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.

The petitioner, which manufactures and sells shoes and
rubber heels, employs a trade-mark, registered under the
Trade-Mark Act of 1905, 33 Stat. 724, 15 U. S. C. § 81
et seq., consisting of a red circular plug embedded in the
center of a heel. The heels were not sold separately, but
were attached to shoes made by the petitioner. It has
spent considerable sums of money in seeking to gain the

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

favor of the consuming public by promoting the mark
as assurance of a desirable product. The respondent sold
heels not made by the petitioner but bearing a mark described by the District Court as "a circular plug of red
or reddish color so closely resembling that of the plaintiff
[petitioner] that it is difficult to distinguish the products
sold by the defendant from the plaintiff's products." The
heels sold by the respondent were inferior in quality to
those made by the petitioner, and "this tended to destroy
the good will created by the plaintiff in the manufacture
of its superior product." Although there was no evidence
that particular purchasers were actually deceived into
believing that the heels sold by the respondent were manufactured by the petitioner, the District Court found that
there was a "reasonable likelihood" that some purchases
might have been induced by the purchaser's belief that
he was obtaining the petitioner's product. "The ordinary
purchaser, having become familiar. with the plaintiff's
trade-mark, would naturally be led to believe that the
heels marketed by the defendant were the product of
the plaintiff company." Concluding that the petitioner's
mark had thus been infringed, the court enjoined future
infringement and also ordered that the respondent account to the petitioner for profits made from sales "to
purchasers who were induced to buy because they believed
the heels to be those of plaintiff and which sales plaintiff
would otherwise have made."
Complaining of this criterion for determining the pr6fits
that improperly accrued to the respondent by reason of
the infringement, the petitioner appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which affirmed
the decree. 119 F. 2d 316. Deeming thenmtter topresent an important question under: the Trade-Mark" Act,
we brought the case here solely to reviewthe provisions
of the decree dealing with the measure of profits and

MISHAWAKA MFG. CO. v. KRESGE CO.
203

205

Opinion of the Court.

damages for the infringement found by the two lower
courts. Whether there was such an infringement as to
entitle the petitioner to the remedies provided by the
federal trade-mark laws is therefore not open here.
The protection of trade-marks is the law's recognition
of the psychological function of symbols. If it is true
that we live by symbols, it is no less true that we purchase goods by them. A trade-mark is a merchandising
short-cut which induces a purchaser to select what he
wants, or what he has been led to believe he wants. The
owner of a mark exploits this human propensity by making every effort to impregnate the atmosphere of the
market with the drawing power of a congenial symbol.
Whatever the means employed, the aim is the same-to
convey through the mark, in the minds of potential customers, the desirability of the commodity upon which it
appears. Once this is attained, the trade-mark owner
has something of value. If another poaches upon the
commercial magnetism of the symbol he has created, the
owner can obtain legal redress. And in this case we are
called upon to ascertain the extent of the redress afforded
for infringement of a mark registered under the TradeMark Act of 1905.
The "right to be protected against an unwarranted
use of the registered mark has been made a statutory
right" by that Act. Thaddeus Davids Co. v. Davids Mfg.
Co., 233 U. S. 461, 471. Section 19 of the Act provides
that "upon a decree being rendered in any such case for
wrongful use of a trade-mark the complainant shall be
entitled to recover, in addition to the profits to be accounted for by the defendant, the damages the com-'
plainant has sustained thereby, and the court shall assess
the same or cause the same to be assessed under its direction . . .; and in assessing profits the plaintiff shall be
required to prove defendant's sales only; defendant must

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

prove all elements of cost which are claimed."' 33 Stat.
724, 729; 15 U. S. C. § 99. Infringement and damage
having been found, the Act requires the trade-mark owner
to prove only the sales of articles bearing the infringing
mark. Although the award of profits is designed to make
the plaintiff whole for losses which the infringer has
caused by taking what did not belong to him, Congress
did not put upon the despoiled.the burden-as often as
not impossible to sustain-of showing that but for the
defendant's unlawful use of the mark, particular customers would have purchased the plaintiff's goods.
If it can be shown that the infringement had no relation to profits made by the defendant, that some purchasers bought goods bearing the infringing mark because of
the defendant's recommendation or his reputation or for
any reason other than a response to the diffused appeal
of the plaintiff's symbol, the burden of showing this is
upon the poacher. The plaintiff of course is not entitled
to profits demonstrably not attributable to the unlawful
use of his mark. Cf. Straus v. Notaseme Co., 240 U. S.
179, 183; compare Sheldon v. Metro-Goldwyn Corp., 309
U. S.390; Westinghouse Electric Co. v. Wagner Mfg. Co.,
225 U. S. 604. The burden is the infringer's to prove that
'The committee reports upon the bill which became the 1905 Act
make these observations on § 19: "By section 19 provision is made
for proceedings in equity against the infringer of a registered trademark. This section corresponds in terms with section 4921 of the Revised Statutes relating to patent cases, except that it specially provides
the manner in which profits shall be ascertained. Under existing rules
it is necessary for the complainant to prove sales and costs with
entire and absolute accuracy. The only persons having knowledge
of the cost of making the sales are the defendant or some one in
his employ. It has seemed, therefore, only fair and just that if the
complainant proves the sales, the defendant should'be required to
produce evidence of the expenses he was put to in making such sales
as an offset against the sales proven by the complainant." Sen. Rep.
No. 3278, 58th Cong., 3d Sees., p. 10; H. Rep. No. 3147, 58th Cong.,

3d Sess., p. 9.

MISHAWAKA MFG. CO. v. KRESGE CO.
203

207

Opinion of the Court.

his infringement had no cash value in sales made by him.
If he does not do so, the profits made on sales of goods
bearing the infringing mark properly belong to the owner
of the mark. Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Wolf Bros.,
240 U. S. 251. There may well be a windfall to the trademark owner where it is impossible to isolate the profits
which are attributable to the use of the infringing mark.
But to hold otherwise would give the windfall to the
wrongdoer. In the absence of his proving the contrary,
it promotes honesty and comports with experience to
assume that the wrongdoer who makes profits from the
sales of goods bearing a mark belonging to another was
enabled to do so because he was drawing upon the good
will generated by that mark. And one who makes profits
derived from the uAlawful appropriation of a mark belonging to another cannot relieve himself of his obligation
to restore the profits to their rightful owner merely by
showing that the latter did not choose to use the mark
in the particular manner employed by the wrongdoer.
The starting point of the case before us is respondent's
infringement of the petitioner's trade-mark in violation
of the federal Act. The decree is assailed by the petitioner
because, upon its reading of the decree, it is awarded only
those profits which it can affirmatively prove to have
resulted from sales "to purchasers who were induced to
buy because they believed the heels to be those of plaintiff,
and which sales plaintiff would otherwise have made."
We are not prepared to say that such is not a sensible
reading of the language in which the decree was cast, the
purpose of which was to recover profits that came to the
respondent through its infringement and that in good
conscience belong to the petitioner. The decree in effect
requires the petitioner to prove by a procession of witnesses, that when they bought heels from the infringer
they had a clear, well-focussed consciousness that they
were buying the petitioner's heels and that otherwise they

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

would not have bought them. But the shoe is on the
-other foot. The creation of a market through an established symbol implies that people float on a psychological
current engendered by the various advertising devices
which give a trade-mark its potency. It is that which the
Trade-Mark Act of 1905 protects. We therefore vacate
the decree in order that the cause be remanded to the
District Court for the entry of a decree in conformity
with this opinion. If the petitioner suffered damages
beyond the loss of profits the decree should provide for
the assessment of such damages.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR.JUsTICm ROBERTS took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK, dissenting, with whom M. JusTicE
DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTIE MURPHY concur:

Mishawaka does not sell detached rubber heels. The
heels bearing its mark are attached to the rubber boots.
and shoes it manufactures, and reach the market only as
parts of these larger products. Kresge, on the other hand,
sells in its retail stores detached rubber heels manufactured by others. Hence, like the courts below, I find it
difficult to conclude that there were substantial-probabilities of deception and that Kresge's sales took away business that might otherwise have gone to Mishawaka. In
any event, the economic rivalry, if it existed at all, was
so remote and indirect that an injunction alone would
seem to have afforded ample relief against the infringement, found by both courts below to have been without.
fraudulent intent.
Moreover, upon the extensive evidence introduced by
both parties, the trial court concluded that there was "no
direct proof of any ordinary purchaser being misled into
believing that heels marketed by the defendant were prod-

U. S. v. CITIZENS LOAN CO.
Syllabus.

203

ucts of the plaintiff company." The Circuit Court of Appeals reached a similar conclusion: "No justification is
found in the record for an inference that any one appears
to have been deceived by appellee's trade-mark into purchasing its shoe heels and lifts in the belief that he was
purchasing shoe heels produced by appellant." 119 F. 2d
316, 324.
If the respondent had wilfully palmed off the heels it
sold as products of the petitioner, and if it had been
shown that the petitioner had suffered any injury, I should
agree to a decision resolving doubts about the measure of
damages in favor of the petitioner. But under the circumstances of this case, I believe the effect of the decision
handed down is to grant a windfall to the petitioner and
to impose a penalty upon the respondent, neither of which
is deserved. Finding nothing in the Trade-Mark Act of
1905 which compels such a result, I can see no abuse of
discretion in the decree of the trial court which the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. Saxlehner v. Siegel-Cooper
Co., 179 U. S. 42. Cf. Straus v. Notaseme Co., 240 U. S.
179, 182-183.

UNITED STATES v.CITIZENS LOAN & TRUST CO.,
ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUM1BIA.

No. 738. Argued April 6, 1942.-Decided May 4, 1942.
1. Under § 303 of the World War Veterans Act of 1024, as amended
by Act of 1925, where the beneficiary of a yearly renewable term
insurance policy dies, after having received part of the 240 monthly
installments provided for in the contract, and the estate of the
insured becomes entitled, the amount payable to the estate is the
present value of remaining unpaid installments, computed as of
the date of the beneficiary's death, excluding interest. P. 214.
461268--48----14,

