258

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

ment." And in Kansas, habeas corpus is recognized as
affording a remedy for a person held in prison in violation
of a right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.' However inept Cochran's choice of words, he has set out allegations supported by affidavits, and nowhere denied, that
Kansas refused him privileges of appeal which it afforded
to others. Since no determination of the verity of these
allegations appears to have been made, the cause must
be remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. NUNNALLY INVESTMENT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 990, October Term, 1940. Argued March 10, 11, 1942.--Decided
May 11, 1942.
1. A judgment for a refund of income taxes in a suit against the
Collector is not a bar to a later suit against the United States for
an additional refund of income taxes for the same year, paid to
the same Collector. Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33. P. 260.
2. The taxpayer sold all its assets for a consideration consisting of
cash and the assumption by the purchaser of certain obligations
including federal taxes for previous years. The purchaser paid
part of these taxes in 1920, and the remainder in 1921 and 1922.
In determining a deficiency for 1920, the Commissioner used a lower
basis of the assets sold than was used by the taxpayer and included
in the selling price the full amount of the taxes which the purchaser had assumed. The taxpayer, having paid, sued the Collector and recovered a refund based upon the Commissioner's
understatement of the basis of the assets sold. Held, that the
judgment against the Collector did not bar a suit against the
United States claiming further refund on the ground that the
taxes assumed by the purchaser which were not paid in 1920 were
not taxable as income of that year. Pp. 259, 264.
92 Ct. Cls. 358, 36 F. Supp. 332, affirmed.
'See e. g. In re Jarvis, 66 Kan. 329, 31 P. 2d 576. Cf. -Smith v.
O'Grady, 312 U. S. 329.

U. S. v. NUNNALLY INVESTMENT CO.
258

259

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 313 U. S. 584, to review a judgment granting
a refund of money erroneously collected as income tax.

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Mr. J. Louis Monarch and Mrs. Elizabeth B. Davis were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. W. A. Sutherland for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit against the United States to recover taxes
for the year 1920. In that year the taxpayer, the respondent here, sold its business and all its assets to another
corporation. The consideration consisted of cash and the
assumption of certain of the respondent's obligations, including federal taxes for previous years. The purchaser
paid part of these taxes in 1920, the remainder in 1921 and
1922. In determining a deficiency for the year 1920, the
Commissioner employed a lower basis of the assets sold
than was used by the respondent. The Commissioner
computed the selling price by including the full amount
of the taxes which the purchaser agreed to assume. After
paying the assessed tax, the respondent filed a claim for
refund, alleging only that the Commissioner had understated the basis of the assets sold. In due course a suit
was brought against the Collector in the District Court.
A settlement was reached, under which judgment for the
taxpayer was entered. In accordance with their agreement, neither party appealed.
Thereafter, the respondent filed a second refund claim,
asserting that the taxes assumed by the purchaser which
were not paid in 1920 were not taxable to the respondent
in that year. This claim was rejected, and a suit against
the United States was begun in the Court of Claims.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Holding that the judgment against the Collector in the
District Court was not res judicata of the taxpayers'
claim in this suit against the United States, the Court of
Claims (with one judge dissenting) gave judgment for the
respondent. 36 F. Supp. 332. In view of the importance
of this question in the administration of the federal income
tax law and its relation to the decision in Moore Ice Cream
-Co. v. Rose, 289 U. S. 373, we br6ght the case here. 314
U. S. 702.
Nearly a quarter-century ago in Sage v. United States,
250 U. S. 33, this Court upon full consideration announced
the doctrine that the United States is a "stranger" to a
judgment resulting from a suit brought against a collector,
and that such a judgment is, therefore, not a bar in a subsequent action upon the same claim against the United
States. This was not a novel doctrine. The result was
drawn from the conception of a suit against a collector as
"personal," since he was personally responsible for illegally
exacting monies under the claim that they were due as
taxes. Such a "personal" remedy against the collector,
derived from the common-law action of indebitatus assumpsit, has always been part of our fiscal administration.
Unless the application given to this remedy by the doctrine
of the Sage case has been displaced by Congress or renounced by later decisions of this Court, the judgment
must stand. Concededly, Congress has not done so. And
although recognition has been made of the technical nature of a suit against a collector, no support can be found
for the contention that the Sage doctrine has been discarded as an anachronism. On the contrary, the rule has
been reaffirmed in an unbroken line of authority.
Soon after the decision in the Sage case, the question was
presented whether an action against a collector could be
continued against his successor. This Court held that
it could not, because the Sage case had settled that such
a suit was "personal." See Smietanka v. Indiana Steel

U. S. v. NUNNALLY INVESTMENT CO.
258

261

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 257 U. S. 1; Union Trust Co. v. Wardell, 258 U. S.
537. In Bankers Coal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 308, a suit
against a collector with respect to taxes for the years
1914-1919 had resulted in a determination that the tax-'
payer was entitled to a depletion allowance of five cents
per ton on coal mine royalties. It was contended that this
determination was res judicata,of that issue in a subpequent action against the Commissioner relating to taxes
for later years. The Court, again relying on the Sage
case, rejected the argument in these words: "With respect to this contention it is sufficient to say that the suit
in the District Court was not against the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, the respondent here, but against the
Collector, judgment against whom is not res adjudicata
against the Commissioner or the United States." 287
U. S. at 311-312.
The Government leans heavily upon Moore Ice Cream
Co. v. Rose, 289 U. S. 373. In that case the constitutionality of § 1014 of the Revenue Act-of 1924, 43 Stat. 253,
343, providing that a taxpayer may recover an unlawful
federal tax even though he paid the tax without protest,
was upheld as applied to a payment without protest made
prior to the enactment of the provision. In reaching this
conclusion, the Court noted that, under R. S. § 989, 28
U. S. C. § 842, a collector who acts under the directions
of the Secretary of the Treasury, or other proper officer of
the Government, "is entitled as of right to a certificate
converting the suit against him into one against the Government . . . A suit against a Collector who has collected a tax in the fulfillment of a ministerial duty is today
an anomalous relic of bygone modes of thought. He is not
suable as a trespasser, nor is he to pay out of his own
purse. He is made a defendant because the statute has
said for many years that such a remedy shall exist, though
he has been guilty of no wrong, and though another is to
pay. .. . There may have been utility in such procedural

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

devices in days when the Government was not suable as
freely as now. . . . They have little utility today, at all
events where the complaint against the officer shows upon
its face that in the process of collecting he was acting in
the line of duty, and that in the line Of duty he has turned
the money over. In such circumstances his presence as a
defendant is merely a remedial expedient for bringing the
Government into court." 289 U. S. at 381-83.
The Government urges that, even though the Moore Ice
Cream case was not concerned with the conclusiveness of
a judgment in a suit against the collector, its rationale
undermined the Sage doctrine. But such has not been the
influence of the Moore Ice Cream case on the subsequent
course of decisions relevant to our purpose. Tait v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 289 U. S. 620, decided by a unanimous Court three weeks after the decision in the Moore
Ice Cream case, is incontrovertible proof that the Sage
doctrine was left unimpaired. The Court there held that
a judgment in a suit against the Commissioner was binding in a subsequent action against the United States and
the collector. The doctrine in the Sage case was explicitly
reaffirmed: "In a suit for unlawful exaction the liability
of a collector is not official but personal. Sage v. United
States, 250 U. S.33; Smietanka v. IndianaSteel Co., 257
U. S. 1; Graham& Foster v. Goodcell, 282 U. S. 409, 430.
And for this reason a judgment in a suit to which he was
a party does not conclude the Commissioner or the United
States. Bankers PocahontasCoal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S.
308, 311. We think, however, that where a question has
been adjudged as between a taxpayer and the Government
or its official agent, the Commissioner, the Collector, being
an official inferior in authority, and acting under them, is
in such privity with them that he is estopped by the judgment." 289 U. S. at 627.
More recently, in Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310
U. S. 381, where the principle of res judicatawas applied to

U. S. v. NUNNALLY INVESTMENT CO.
258

263

Opinion of the Court.

suits to which an administrative agency was a party, the
Court again expressly adhered to the doctrine of the Sage
case: "Cases holding that a judgment in a suit against a
collector for unlawful exaction is not a bar to a subsequent
suit by or against the Commissioner or the United States
(Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33; Bankers Pocahontas
Coal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 308) are not in point, since
the suit against the collector is 'personal and its incidents,
such as the nature of the defenses open and the allowance of interest, are different.'" 310 U. S. at 403. And
earlier in this term in United States v. Kales, 314 U. S.
186, in speaking of the right of a taxpayer to maintain
separate suits against a collector and the Government for
tax payments made to two collectors on income derived
from a single transaction in a single tax year, the Court
said: "The judgment against the collector is a personal
judgment, to which the United States is a stranger except
as it has obligated itself to pay it. See Sage v. United
States, supra;Smietanka v. IndianaSteel Co., supra,.4, 5.
While the statutes have for most practical purposes reduced the personal liability of the collector to a fiction, the
course of the legislation indicates clearly enough that it
is a fiction intended to be acted upon to the extent that
the right to maintain the suit and its incidents, until
judgment rendered, are to be left undisturbed....
The right to pursue the common law action against the
collector is too deeply imbedded in the statutes and judicial decisions of the United States to admit of so radical
a departure from its traditional use and consequences as
the Government now urges, without further Congressional
action." 314 U. S. at 199-200.
In summary, therefore, an imposing series of opinions
has fortified the original authority of the Sage doctrine.
No doubt the precise question raised in each of these cases
was different from the one now before us, and each case
might have been decided without reference to the prin-

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

ciples underlying the rule in the Sage case. But this only
serves to emphasize the obduracy of the doctrine as part
of the historical scheme of revenue administration. It
would have been easy in all of these cases to dissipate the
force of the doctrine which the Sage case represents by
.rejecting it and resting the decision in that case upon the
alternative ground afforded by the Act of July 27, 1912,
c. 256, 37 Stat. 240. That this long line of cases should
have referred to and relied upon the Sage case without
rejecting the doctrine for which it was cited only underlines
still further its persistence.
Even when this Court found that the common-law
right to sue the collector had argumentatively been withdrawn, see Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, Congress promptly
restored that right. Act of February 26, 1845, c. 22, 5
Stat. 727. The problem of legal remedies appropriate
for fiscal administration rests within easy Congressional
control. Congress can deal with the matter comprehensively, unembarrassed by the limitations of a litigation
involving only one phase of a complex problem. The
Government itself does not now ask us to jettison the
whole notion of suing a collector personally. It merely
asks us to eliminate one consequence of that conception.
In the field of custom duties Congress has devised a comprehensive and interrelated scheme of administrative and
judicial remedies. See Act of June 17, 1930, 46 Stat. 590,
734, 19 U. S. C. §§ 1514-15; Freund, Administrative Powers over Persons and Property, pp. 553-60. If the doctrine of the Sage case is now to be abandoned, such a
determination of policy in the administration of the income tax law should be made by Congress, which maintains a Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation
charged with the duty of investigating the operation of
the federal revenue laws and recommending such legislation as may be deemed desirable.
Affirmed.

U. S. v. MASONITE CORP.
Syllabus.

258

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, and MR.
JUSTICE BYRNES dissent for the reasons (1) that here, unlike the situation in United States v. Kales, 314 U. S. 186,
the taxpayer had but a single cause of action and could
have raised every issue with respect to the validity of
the taxes in the earlier suit; (2) that here, unlike the
situation in Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33, 38-39,
there had been no intervening legislation which created
rights and lifted the bar of the judgment in the earlier
suit; and (3) that in the earlier suit the United States
became "a party to the judgment as a matter of law"
(Griswold, Res Judicata in Federal Tax Cases, 46 Yale L.
Journ. 1320, 1342), since in these days the presence of the
collector as a defendant who acts "in the line of duty" is
"merely a remedial expedient for bringing the Government
into court." Moore Ice Cream Co. v. Rose, 289 U. S. 373,
383.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

UNITED STATES v. MASONITE CORPORATION
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 723. Argued April 9, 10, 1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.
1. A price-fixing combination of competitors in interstate trade
violates the Sherman Act. P. 274.
2. Acceptance by competitors, without previous agreement, of an invitation to participate in a plan, the necessary consequence of which, if
carried out, will be restraint of interstate "commerce, renders them
liable as conspirators under the Sherman Act. P. 275.
3. The fixing of prices by one member of a group pursuant to express
delegation, acquiescence, or understanding of the others, is no less
illegal than if done by their direct, joint action. P. 276.

