SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
310

Syllabus.

if any, arising from this claim and from Items Two and
Five of No. 348.

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissents.

SIOUX TRIBE OF INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 798.

Argued April 10, 1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.

1. Orders of the President, in 1875 and 1876, withdrawing areas of
public lands from sale and settlement and setting them apart for
the use of the Sioux Indians as additions to their permanent treaty
reservation, conveyed no interest to the tribe for which it was
entitled to compensation from the United States when, by subsequent executive orders, the lands were restored to the public
domain. Pp. 325, 330.
2. Since the Constitution places the authority to dispose of public
lands exclusively in Congress, the Executive's power to convey any
interest in these lands must be traced to Congressional delegation
of its authority. P. 326.
3. The basis of decision in United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236
U. S. 459, was that, so far as the power to withdraw public lands
from sale is concerned, such a delegation could be spelled out from
long-continued Congressional acquiescence in the executive practice. P. 326.
4. The answer to whether a similar delegation occurred with respect
to the power to convey a compensable interest in these lands to
the Indians must be found in the available evidence of what consequences were thought by the Executive and Congress to flow from
the establishment of executive order reservations. P.. 326.
5. There was no express constitutional or statutory authorization
for the conveyance of a compensable interest to the tribe by the
executive orders of 1875 and 1876, and no implied Congressional
delegation of the power to do so can be inferred from the evidence
of Congressional and executive understanding. P. 331.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

6. The inclusion of executive order reservations in the provisions of
the General Allotment Act for allotting reservation land to Indians
in severalty, did not amount to a recognition of tribal ownership
of the land prior to allotment. P. 330.
94 Ct. Cis. 450, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. 790, to review a judgment, in a suit
against the United States under a special jurisdictional
Act. The judgment denied recovery of compensation for
land alleged to have been taken by the United States from
the petitioning tribe of Indians.
Mr. Ralph H. Case, with whom Messrs. James S. Y.
Ivins and Richard B. Barker were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Littell and Messrs. Vernon L. Wilkinson, Roger
P. Marquis, and Archibald Cox were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTiCE BYRNES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action to recover compensation for some 51/2
million acres of land allegedly taken from the petitioner
tribe in 1879 and 1894. The suit was initiated under the
Act of June 3, 1920, 41 Stat. 738, permitting petitioner to
submit to the Court of Claims any claims arising from the
asserted failure of the United States to pay money or property due, without regard to lapse of time or statutes of
limitation. The Court of Claims denied recovery, 94 Ct.
Cls. 150, and we brought the case here on certiorari.
The facts as found by the Court of Claims are as follows:
. In 1868 the United States and the Sioux Tribe entered
into the Fort Laramie Treaty (15 Stat. 635). By Article II
-of this treaty, a certain described territory, known as the
Great Sioux Reservation and located in what is now South

SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
317

Opinion of the Court.

Dakota and Nebraska, was "set apart for the absolute and
undisturbed use and occupation" of the Tribe. The United
States promised that no persons, other than government
officers and agents discharging their official duties, would
be permitted "to pass over, settle upon, or reside in the
territory described in this article, or in such territory as
may be added to this reservation for the use of said Indians." For their part, the Indians relinquished "all claims
or right in and to any portion of the United States or Territories, except such as is embraced within the limits aforesaid." No question arises in this case with respect to the
lands specifically included within the Reservation by this
treaty.
The eastern boundary of the Great Sioux Reservation,
as constituted by the Ft. Laramie Treaty, was the low
water mark on the east,bank of the Missouri River.1 The
large tract bordering upon and extending eastward from
the east bank of the river remained a part of the public
domain open to settlement and afforded easy access to the
Reservation. As a result, great numbers of white men
"infested" the region for the purpose of engaging in the
liquor traffic. Anxiety over this development led the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, on January 8, 1875, to suggest
to the Secretary of the Interior that he request the President to issue an executive order withdrawing from sale and
setting apart for Indian. purposes a certain large tract of the
land along the eastern bank of the Missouri River. In the
Commissioner's letter to the Secretary of the Interior, and
in the latter's letter of January 9th to the President, the
reason advanced for the proposed executive order was that
it was "deemed necessary for the suppression of the liquor
traffic with the Indians upon the Missouri River." On
1

The Great Sioux Reservation also included two small theretofore
existing reservations located on the east bank of the river. They are
of no consequence so far as the present dispute is concerned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

January 11,.1875, the President signed the suggested order.
It described the territory affected and provided that it 'be,
and the same hereby is, withdrawn from sale and set apart
for the use of the several tribes of Sioux Indians as an addition to their present reservation." On two occasions thereafter, once in February and again in May, white persons
who had settled on the land in question prior, to the issuance of the executive order and who feared that its effect
was to deprive them of their holdings, were informed by
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs that the object of the
executive order was "to enable the suppression of the liquor,
traffic with the Indians on the Missouri River," that it did
not affect the existing rights of any persons in the area, that
it was not "supposed that the withdrawal will be made
permanent," and that no interference with -the peaceful
occupancy of the territory had been intended.
On March 13,1875, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
addressed another letter to the Secretary of the Interior.
In it he recommended'that the Secretary request the President to withdraw from sale and set apart for Indian purposes another tract of land bordering the Great Sioux
Reservation, this time to the north and northeast. The
reason given was similar to that for which the first order
had been sought: "viz: the suppression of the liquor
traffic with Indians at the Standing Rock Agency." As
a "further reason for said request" the Commissioner
stated that "the Agency buildings, as now located at
Standing Rock, are outside the reservation as defined by
[the Fort Laramie] treaty . . . but are included in the
tract proposed to be withdrawn." The Secretary forwarded the Commissioner's report to the President with
his concurrence, repeating that the "enlargement of the
Sioux reservation in Dakota" was "deemed necessary for
the suppression of the liquor traffic with the Indians at the
Standing Rock Agency." On March 16, 1875, the President issued a second executive order describing the tract

SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
317

Opinion of the Court.

of land involved and declaring that it "be, and the same
hereby is, withdrawn from sale and set apart for the use
of the several tribes of the Sioux Indians as an addition
to their present reservation in said Territory."
In mid-May of 1875 the Secretary of War transmitted
to the Secretary of the Interior a letter from the officer
in command of the Southern District of the Military Department of Dakota in which it was pointed out that a
small tract of land along the eastern bank of the Missouri
River opposite the southern corner of the Sioux Reservation was still open to settlement and afforded "a very nice
point for whiskey sellers and horse thieves." Upon the
basis of this letter, the Commissioner recommended to the
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary recommended
to the President the issuance of still a third executive order
withdrawing the described tract from settlement. On
May 20, 1875, the executive order was issued in the same
I
form as its two predecessors.
Finally, upon a similar complaint from the Acting Agent
of the Standing Rock Agency that a small piece of land to
the north of the reservation was being used as a base of
operations by persons selling, liquor and ammunition to
the Sioux Indians, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
and the Secretary of the Interior recommended a further
order to "effectually cut off these whiskey dealers." In
his letter to the -Secretary dated November 24, 1876, the
Corhmissioner stated: "It'is :not proposed to interfere
with the vested rights, or the legitimate business of any
settler who may be upon this tract." The President issued a foureh executive order in the usual form on November 28, 1876. On December 13, 1876, the Commissioner notified the agent at Standing Rock that the order
had been issued, and added that it was "not intended to
interfere with the vested rights of any settlers upon this
tract or with the legitimate business pursuits of any person lawfully residing within its limits."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

About two and a half years after the last of these four
executive orders withdrawing lands from sale and setting
them apart for the use of the Sioux, the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs, submitted to the Secretary of the Interior a report upon a suggestion that the orders be
modified so as to permit the return of the lands to the
public domain. The report, dated June 6, 1879, reviewed
the problems arising from the liquor trade during the
years following the Fort Laramie treaty, recalled that
the purpose of the four executive orders of 1875 and 1876
had been to eliminate this traffic, observed that they had
"to a great extent accomplished the object desired, viz:
the prevention of the sale of whiskey to the Indians,"
and concluded that any change in the boundaries established by the executive orders would "give renewed life
to this unlawful traffic, and be detrimental to the best
interests of the Indians."
Three weeks later, however, upon reconsideration, the
Commissioner informed the Secretary that, in his opinion, the lands included in the executive orders of 1875
and 1876 might be "restored to the public domain, and
the interests of the Indians still be protected." In
explanation he stated:
"These lands were set apart for th e purpose, as alleged,
of preventing illegal liquor traffic with the Indians. At
the time said lands were set apart there was no law providing a punishment for the sale of liquor to Indians,
'except to Indians in the Indian country,' but, by the
Act of February 27, 1877, (19 Stat. 244) persons who now
engage in liquor traffic with Indians, no matter in what
locality, are liable to a penalty of $300, and two years
imprisonment, and, therefore, the necessity for so large
a reservation for the protection of these Indians in this
respect does not now exist." 2
'Letter from Commissioner to Secretary of the Interior, dated

June 27, 1879.

SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
317

Opinion of the Court.

Accordingly, he recommended that the lands withdrawn
from sale by the President in 1875 and 1876 be returned
to the public domain, with the exception of three small
tracts directly opposite the Cheyenne, Grand River, and
Standing Rock agencies. On August 9, 1879, an executive order to this effect was promulgated and the land,
with the exceptions indicated, was "restored to the public
domain." Five years later, the Commissioner informed
the Secretary that the Grand River Agency had ceased to
exist and that the agents at Cheyenne and Standing Rock
considered it no longer necessary to withhold the tracts
opposite their agencies from the public domain "for the
purpose for which they have thus far been retained."
Consequently, an executive order was prepared and
signed by the President on March 20, 1884, restoring
these three small pieces of land to the public domain,
"the same being no longer needed for the purpose for
which they were withdrawn from sale and settlement."
One additional event remains to be noted. In the Indian
Appropriation Act for 1877, approved August 15, 1876 (19
Stat. 176, 192), Congress provided:
".. . hereafter there shall be no appropriation made for
the subsistence of said Indians [i. e., the Sioux], unless they
shall first agree to relinquish all right and claim- to any
country outside the boundaries of the permanent reservation established by the treaty of eighteen hundred and
sixty-eight [the Fort Laramie treaty] for said Indians; and
also so much of their said permanent reservation as lies
west of the one hundred and third meridian of longitude
[the western boundary set by the Fort Laramie treaty had
been the 104th meridian], and shall also grant right of way
over said reservation to the country thus ceded for wagon
or other roads, from convenient and accessible points on
the Missouri River . ."
On September 26, 1876-a date subsequent to the first
three of the four executive orders setting apart additional

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

lands for the use of the Sioux, but about two months prior
to the last of those orders-the Sioux Tribe signed an agreement conforming to the conditions imposed by Congress in
the Indian Appropriation Act and proi'sed to "relinquish
and cede. to the United States all the territory lying
outside the said reservation, as herein modified and
described .
a
Petitioner's position is that the executive orders of 1875
and 1876 were effective to convey to the Tribe the same
kind of interest in the lands affected as it had acquired in
the lands covered by the Fort Laramie Treaty,- that the
executive orders. of 1879 and 1884 restoring, thelands to
*the public domain deprived petitioner of this interest, and
that it is entitled to be compensated for the fair value of
the landz as of 1879 and 1884. The Government defends
on several grounds. first, that, in general, the President
lacked auth, rity to confer upon any individual or group a
compensable interest in any part of the public domain;
second, that, even if he had the power to convey such a
compensable interest, the Presideht did not purport to do
so in this case; and third, that, in any event, by the treaty
of 1876 the Sioux relinquished whatever rights they may
have had in the lands covered by the first three of the four
executive orders.
Section 3 of Article IV of the Constitution confers upon Congress exclusively "the power to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or
other property belongingto the United States." Nevertheless, "from an early period in the history of the government it has been the practice of the President to order,
from time, to time, as the exigencies of the public service
required, parcels of land belonging to the United States to
be reserved from sale and set apart for public uses." Grisar
t.. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363, 381. As long ago as 1830, Con'This treaty was ratifiedby the Act of February 28, 1877 (19 Stat.
254).

SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
317

325

Opinion of the Court.

gress revealed its awareness of this practice and acquiesced
in it.' By 1855 the President had begun to withdraw public lands from sale by executive order for the specific purpose of establishing Indian reservations." From that date
until 1919,0 hundreds of reservations for Indian occupancy
and for other purposes were created by executive order.
Department of the Interior, Executive OrdersRelating to
Indian Reservations, passim; United States v. Midwest
Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, 469-470. Although the validity of
these orders was occasionally questioned,' doubts were
quieted in United States v. Midwest Oil Co., supra. In
that case, it was squarely held that, even in the absence of
express statutory authorization, it lay within the power of
the President to withdraw lands from the public domain.
Cf. Mason v. United States, 260 U. S. 545.
The Government therefore does not deny that the
executive orders of 1875 and 1876 involved here were
effective to withdraw the lands in question from the
public domain. It contends, however, that this is not
the issue presented by this case. It urges that, instead,
we axe called upon to determine whether the President
'The Pre-emption Act of May 29, 1830, excluded from its provisions
"any land, which is reserved from sale by Act of Congress, or by order
of the President." 4 Stat. 420,421. "Lands included in any reservation,
by any treaty, law, or proclamation of the President" were excluded
from the operation of the Pre-emption Act of September 4, 1841. 5
Stat. 453, 456,
Cohen, Handbook of FederalIndian Law (1941) 299; Department
of the Interior, Executive Orders Relating to Indian Reservations,
Vol. I, p. 79.
"By § 27 of the Act of June 30, 1919, Congress declared that thereafter "no public lands of the United States shall be withdrawn by Executive Order, proclamation, or otherwise, for or as an Indian reservation except by Act of Congress."' 41 Stat'. 3, 34. In 1927, Congress
added a provision that any future changes in the boundaries of executive order reservations should be'lbade by Congress alone. § 4, 44
Stat. 1347.
'See 14.Op. A. G. 181 (1873). But cf. 17 Op. A. G. 258 (1882).

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

had the power to bestow upon the Sioux Tribe an interest
in these lands of such a character as to require compensation when the interest was extinguished by the executive
orders of 1879 and 1884. Concededly, where lands have
been reserved for the use and occupation of an Indian
Tribe by the terms of a treaty or statute, the tribe must
be compensated if the lands are subsequently taken from
them. Shoshone Tribe v. United States, 299 U. S. 476;
United States v. Shoshone Tribe, 304 U. S. 111; United
States v. Klamath Indians, 304 U. S. 119. Since the Constitution places the authority to dispose of public lands
exclusively in Congress, the executive's power to convey
any interest in these lands must be traced to Congressional delegation of its authority. The basis of decision in United States v. Midwest Oil Co. was that, so
far as the power to withdraw public lands from sale is
concerned, such a delegation could be spelled out from
long continued Congressional acquiescence in .the executive practice. The answer to whether a similar delegation occurred with respect to the power to convey t compensable interest in these lands to the Indians must be
found in the available evidence of what consequences
were thought by the executive and Congress to flow from
the establishment of executive order reservations
8 This

question is an open one. It is true that language appearing

in two decisions of this Court suggests that the tribal title to a reservation 1.9the same 'whether the reservation has been created by statute
or treaty or by executive order. Re Wilson, 140 U. S. 575, 577;
Spalding v. Chandler, 160 U. S. 394, 403. Cf. C. N. Cotton, 12 L. D.
205 (1890); William F. Tucker et al., 13 L. D. 628 (1891). In Re Wilson, however, it was conceded by all concerned that an executive order
reservation was "Indian country" within the meaning of that term
as it appeared in certain statutes defining the criminal jurisdiction
of United States courts and territorial courts. No question was
raised by the case with respect to the character of the tribe's interest

in the reservation. Moreover, the dictum referred to was based upon
the assumptionthat the allotment Act of 1887 (24 Stat. 388) amounted

to a Congressional recognition of tribal title to executive order reser-

SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
317

327

Opinion of the Court.

It is significant that the executive department consist-.

ently indicated its understanding that the rights and
interests which the Indians enjoyed in executive order
reservations were different from and less than their rights
and interests in treaty or statute reservations. The annual reports of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs during
the years when reservations were frequently being estab-

lished by executive order contain statements that the Indians had "no assurance for their occupation of these
lands beyond the pleasure of the Executive,". 9 that they
"are mere tenants at will, and-possess no permanent rights
to the lands upon which they are temporarily permdtted
to remain," 10 and that those occupying land in exechitve
vations. The invalidity of this assumption is demonstrated in 'a
later portion of our opinion. The issue in Spalding v. Chandler
concerned the effect of the Pre-emption Act of September 4, 1841
(5 Stat. 453) upon an Indian reservation created by treaty and
preserved by executive order and did not involve a determination of
whether the Indians enjoyed a compensable interest in an executive
order reservation. And twenty-eight years thereafter when the Attorney General ruled, on the authority of United States v. Midwest
Oil Co., that executive order reservations were not a part of the
-public domain for purposes of the General Leasing Act- of 1920
(41 Stat. 437), he took occasion to remark: "Whether the President
might legally abolish, in whole or in part, Indian 'reservations once
created by him, has been seriously questioned (12 L. D. 205; 13 L. D.
628) and not without strong reasons; for the Indian rights attach
when the lands are thus set aside; and moreover, the lands then at
once become subject to allotment under the General Allotment Act.
Nevertheless, the President has in fact, and in a number of instances,
changed the boundaries of executive order Indian reservations by
excluding lands therefrom, and the question of his authority to do so
has not apparently come before the courts." 34 Op. A. G. 171, 176
(emphasis added).
'Annual Report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs (1872), H. R.
Exec. Doc., 42d Cong., 3d Sess., Vol. III, No. 1, part 5, p. 472.
"Id. (1878), H. R. Exec. Doc., 46th Cong., 3d Sess., Vol. IX,
No. 1, part 5, p. 486; id. (1880), H. R. Exec. Doc., 46th Cong., 3d Sem.,
Vol. IX, No. 1, part 5, p. 96.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

order reservations "do not hold it by the same tenure with
which Indians in other parts of the Indian Territory possess their reserves." 'Although there are abundant signs that Congress was
aware of the practice of establishing Indian reservations
by executive order, there is little to indicate what it understood to be the kind of interest that the Indians obtained
in these lands. However, in its report in 1892 upon a
bill to restore to the public domain a. portion of the
Colville executive order reservation, the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs expressed the opinion that under
the executive order "the Indians were given a license
to occupy the lands described in it so long as it was the
pleasure of the Government they should do so, and no
right, title, or claim to such lands has vested in the
Indians by virtue of this occupancy." 12
Petftioner argues that its position finds support in § 1
-of the General Allotment Act of February 8, 1887,18 which
provides:
"That in all cases where any tribe or band of Indians has
been, or shall hereafter be, located upon any reservation
created for their use, either by treaty stipulation or by
virtue of an act of Congress or executive order setting
apart the same for their use, the President of the United
States be, and, he hereby is, authorized . . . to cause said
reservation . . . to be surveyed . .. and to allot the
lands in said reservation in severalty to any Indian located
thereon .
By § 5, provision was made for issuance of patents to the
allottees, by which the United States promised to hold the
lands in trust for the allottees and their heirs for 25 years,
'Id. (1886), H. R. Exec. Doe., 49th Cong., 2d Sess., Vol. 8, No. 1,
part 5, p. 88.
S. Rep. No. 664, 52d Cong., lst Sess., p. 2.
24 Stat. 388.

SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
317

Opinion of the Court.

and thereafter toconvey to them full title. Petitioner
urges that, by including executive order reservations
within the .provisions of this Act, Congress revealed.its
belief that the degree of ownership enjoyed by Indian
tribes is identical whether the reservation is created by
treaty, statute, or executive order. But there is much to
.contradict this interpretation. For example, during the
course of the debate on the measure, Senator Dawes, a
member of the Committee reporting the bill, frequently
distinguished between the character of title .enjoyed by
the Indians on statute and treaty reservations and that
enjoyed by those on executive order reservations, and no
exception was taken to his remarks. 17 Cong.-Rec. 1559,
.1630, 1631, 1763. Moreover, in its 1892 report on the
bill to abolish a portion of the Colville reservation, to
which we have referred, the Senate Committee on Indian
Affairs explained:
"An erroneous idea .seems to have grown up, that the
Indian allotment act [of 1887] and its amendments have'
given additional sanctions to executive reservations, and
operated to confer titles upon the Indians occupying them
they did not before possess . . . At the time of the enadtment of this statute, there were fifty-six executive
reservations, embracing perhaps from 75,000,000 to 100,000,000 acres of the public lands, in which the Indians
had no right or claim of title and which could be extinguished by act of the President. It would be.preposterous to place such a construction upon the language of this
act as would divest the United States of its title to these
lands." 14
This statement by the Committee which reported the
general Allotment Act of 1887, made within five years of
its passage, is virtually conclusive as -to the significance
,S.Rep. No. 664, 52d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

of that Act. We think that the inclusion of executive
order reservations meant no more than that Congress was
willing that the lands within them should be allotted to
individual Indians according to the procedure outlined.
It did not amount to a recognition of tribal ownership of
the lands prior to allotment. Since the lands involved in
the case before us were never allotted-indeed, the executive orders of 1879 and 1884 terminated the reservation
even before the Allotment Act was passed,-we think the
Act has no bearing upon the issue presented.
Perhaps the most striking proof of the belief shared by
Congress and the Executive that the Indians were not
entitled to compensation upon the abolition of an executive order reservation is the very absence of compensatory
payments in such situations. It was a common practice,
during the period in which reservations were created by
executive order, for the President simply to terminate the
existence of a reservation by cancelling or revoking the
order establishing it. That is to say, the procedure followed in the case before us was typical. No compensation
was made, and neither the Government nor the Indians
suggested that it was due.15 It is true that on several of
the many occasions when Congress itself abolished executive order reservations, it provided for a measure of compensation to the Indians. In the Act of July 1, 1892,
restoring to the public domain a large portion of the Colville reservation,"6 and in the Act of February 20, 1893,
restoring a portion of the White Mountain Apache Indian Reservation," Congress directed that the proceeds
See, e. g., Department of the Interior, Executive Orders Relating
to Indian Reservations,Vol. I, pp. 5, 6, 21, 30, 37, 43, 44, 48-50; Hearings before a Subcommittee of the Committee on Indian Affairs on
S. 1722 and S. 3159, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 104-105.
1627 Stat. 62, 63.
•'27 Stat. 469, 470.

SIOUX TRIBE v. U. S.
317

Opinion of the Court.

from the sale of the lands be used for the benefit of the
Indians. But both acts contained an explicit proviso:
"That nothing herein contained shall be construed as recognizing title or ownership of said Indians to any part of
said . .. . Reservation, whether that hereby restored to

the public domain or that still reserved by the Government for their use and occupancy." Consequently, the
granting of compensation must be regarded as an act of
grace rather than a recognition of an obligation.
We conclude therefore that there was no express constitutional or statutory authorization for the conveyance
of a compensable interest to petitioner by the four executive orders of 1875 and 1876, and that no implied Congressional delegation of the power to do so can be spelled
out from the evidence of Congressional and executive understanding. The orders were effective to withdraw from'!
sale the lands affected and to grant the use of the lands to
the petitioner. But the interest which the Indians received
was subject to termination at the will of either the executive or Congress and without obligation to the United
States. The executive orders of 1879 and 1884 were simply an exercise of this power of termination, and the payment of compensation was not required.
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

