OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

216

Syllabus.

SWIFT & CO.

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

316 U. S.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 595.

Argued March 6, 9, 1942.-Decided May 4, 1942.

1. Transportation by railroad of livestock in carload lots to public
stockyards includes unloading into suitable pens. § 15, Interstate
Commerce Act. P. 223.
2. Whether the use of stockyards facilities for egress of livestock to
the public street after unloading is a part of the transportation
service for which charges may reasonably be made, is a question to
be decided by the Interstate Commerce Commission in the exercise
of its judgment upon the facts of each particular case, and not for
decision according to any fixed rule of law. P. 225.
3. Pursuant to long and uniform practice, direct shipments of livestock made by Chicago meat packers to themselves at the Chicago
stockyards are there unloaded in pens furnished by the stockyards
company-a service for which the carrier pays the stockyards,
absorbing the charge in its transportation rates; and further "yardage" charges are collected by the stockyards company from the
packers for subsequent stockyards services, including the use of
the stockyards property for egress of the livestock to the public
street. The packing companies asked the Interstate Commerce
Commission to establish rules and practices under which they might
obtain delivery of the livestock in the pens, with egress for its immediate removal to the nearest public street by a way to be designated
by the carriers, without payment of yardage charges to the stockyards
company or of any charges other than the line-haul rates. Held:
(1) In determining the reasonableness of the practice, the Commission properly considered its evolution, including the history of
dealings between the packers and the stockyards company, and
considered the effect of the existing and proposed practices on the
interests of the carriers, the public and other shippers. P. 225.
(2) A finding by the Commission that the practice is reasonable
is supported by evidence and is therefore conclusive on this Court.
P. 231.
(3) The Commission, having decided that transportation ended
with the unloading of the livestock into the unloading pens, rightly
concluded that it had no jurisdiction to inquire into the reasonable-

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

216

ness of practices or charges of the stockyards company beyond that
point. P. 231.
(4) In so far as the stockyards company is an agency in transportation, it is subject to the Interstate Commerce Act and to the
control of the Interstate Commerce Commission. In so far as it
performs stockyards services, it is subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act and to regulation by the Secretary of Agriculture. P. 232.
Affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court, three judges
sitting, which dismissed a bill to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
APPEAL

Mr. Ross Dean Rynder, with whom Mr. Edgar B. Kixmiller was on the brief, for Swift & Co. et al.; and Mr.
Paul E. Blanchard,with whom Messrs. Chas. J. Faulkner,
Jr. and John Potts Barnes were on the brief, for Armour
& Co., appellants.
Mr. Hugh B. Cox, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. James
C. Wilson, Smith R. Brittingham, Jr., Robert L. Pierce,
Daniel W. Knowlton, and E. M. Reidy were on the brief,
for the United States et al.; and Mr. Douglas F. Smith,
with whom Mr. Kenneth F. Burgess was on the brief, for
the Alton Railroad Co. et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Swift & Company and Omaha Packing Company, its
wholly-owned subsidiary, filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission a complaint against the common carriers by railroad which served the Chicago Union Stock
Yards, operated by the Union Stock Yard & Transit
Company.' They were later joined by Armour & Corn1
Other phases of the general problem of the present case have
been considered in Adams v. Mills, 286 U. S. 397; Atchison, T. &

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

pany, as intervenor, to constitute the interest referred to
herein as the packers. Although Armour sought no relief, it was allowed to intervene because it was at the time
litigating in the courts a similar complaint, which was
later passed on by this Court in Armour & Co. v. Alton R.
Co., 312 U. S. 195. The complaint in this case concerned
practices of the Union Stock Yard & Transit Company
and charges collected by it from the packers, but the
Yard Company was not a party to the proceedings. The
packers sought a revision of the Yard Company's practices, which they said were part of the carrier-shipper
relation, through the exercise of the Interstate Commerce
Commission's jurisdiction over the railroads and over
transportation.
The complaint charged that the packers shipped over
lines of defendant carriers from various points of origin
throughout the United States to Chicago, Illinois, what
are known as "direct shipments" of livestock. "Direct
shipments" refers to livestock consigned directly to a
packer at the Union Stock Yards, as distinguished from
a shipment consigned to a commission merchant at the
Stock Yards for sale.2 Direct shipments are generally of
livestock which has been purchased by the packer or its
buyers at country points or at markets other than
S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 193; Union Stock Yard Co.

v. United States, 308 U. S. 213; Armour & Co. v. Alton R. Co., 312
U. S. 195.
The Commission found, from an analysis of the billing of 3,061
cars unloaded at the Union Stock Yards from January 1935 to March
1938, that 84.4% were consigned to the Stock Yards, and the remaining 15.6% were delivered to the Stock Yards although delivery at that
point was not specified in the livestock contracts. "Under the terms
of the contract, complainant could have required delivery of the 15.6
percent of shipments either at the stockyards or on defendants' team
tracks, but complainant never requested delivery of those shipments
to any point other than the Union Stock Yards." 238 I. C. C.
179, 189. They were therefore included in "direct shipments."

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

Opinion of the Court.

Chicago. On arrival, the cars containing the livestock
are placed at unloading or chute pens of the Yard Company by the railroad employees, and the stock is then
unloaded and placed in the pens by employees of the
Yard Company. For this unloading service, the Yard
Company is paid at published tariff rates' by the railroads, which absorb the charge: out of their line-haul
rates.
The packers desire immediately to take their consignments from these unloading pens and insist that they
desire no further services, and, of course, desire to incur
no further charges.
The Yard Company, however, under tariffs filed with
the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to the Packers and
Stockyards Act,' imposes upon the packers a schedule of
charges known as yardage charges, which vary from ten
cents to forty-five cents per head of stock. The packers
say that they desire none of the services, such as weighing, watering, feeding, or holding, which yardage charges
compensate, and desire only to move their stock immediately from the unloading pens to the public streets, without payment of the yardage charges. Contending that it
is their legal right so to obtain delivery, the packers made
sufficient demand upon the Yard Company and upon the
railroad companies for immediate and free delivery of
their stock from the unloading pens. This was refused,
and yardage charges have been paid to the Yard Company under protest. The packers demanded from the
Commission relief by way of reparation, and asked the
Commission to establish rules and practices under which
they may obtain delivery to themselves by the railroads of
aUnder

tariffs filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission by

the Yard Company, the railroads pay to the Yard Company $1.25
per single-deck car and $1.50 per double-deck car, for services rendered as their agent in unloading the stock.
'Act of August 15, 1921, 42 Stat. 159, 7 U. S. C. § 181 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

direct shipments at the Union Stock Yards in convenient,
safe, and suitable pens, with egress for the immediate
removal of the livestock to the nearest public street, by
a way to be designated by the railroads, without the payment of any yardage charges to the Union Stock Yards
& Transit Company, and without the payment of any
charges other than the line-haul transportation charges of
the railroads.
The Commission, after hearings, denied the packers
relief, for reasons later to be considered. It found that
the delivery of stock consigned by the packers to themselves at the Stock Yards, into the Yard Company's pens
without affording free egress for the shipments, is not
an unreasonable practice on the part of the carriers, and
that the yardage charges thereafter assessed by the Union
Stockyards & Transit Company are not subject to the
Commission's jurisdiction. 238 I. C. C. 179.
Appellants Swift and Omaha then brought suit in a
District Court of three judges for a decree permanently
suspending and annulling the order of the Commission
and for a remand of the complaint for decision in accordance with principles of law to be determined by the
court. Appellant Armour intervened, and participated
in the trial. The railroads which had been named as
defendants before the Commission also intervened, as
defendants in the District Court. After hearing, the
District Court held, without opinion, that the Commission's findings were properly supported by evidence; that
the findings made by the Commission were adequate to
support its conclusion; that the liractices complained of
were not unreasonable; and that the Commission did
not have jurisdiction of the yardage charges. It dismissed the packers' complaint, and appeal was taken to'
this Court
§§ 210 and 238 (4) of the Judicial Code as amended by the Act
of February 13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936, 938, 28 U. S. C. §§ 47a, 345.

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

Opinion of the Court.

The many assignments of error may be grouped under
three inquiries: (1) Do the packers have an absolute
right, as a matter of law, to take their direct shipments
of livestock from the unloading pens free from yardage
charges? (2) If there is no such absolute right, was the
Commission in error in considering the history of dealings
between packers and the Yard Company, together with
other facts bearing on the reasonableness of the carriers'
method of delivery at the Stock Yards? (3) If the practice as to delivery was correctly held a reasonable method
of terminating the carriers' obligation to furnish transportation, did the Commission have jurisdiction in a
proceeding against the railroad companies to inquire
into or prescribe the yardage charges complained of?

The packers' contention that they are entitled as a matter of absolute right to delivery of their livestock from the
unloading pens without payment of yardage charges, is
based upon the decision of this Court in Covington StockYards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128, and the subsequently
enacted § 1 (3) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
In the Covington case, decided on facts antedating the
Interstate Commerce Act, this Court said that "A carrier
of live stock has no more right to make a special charge
for merely receiving or merely delivering such stock, in
and through stock yards provided by itself, in order that
it may properly receive and load, or unload and deliver,
such stock, than a carrier of passengers may make a special
charge for the use of its passenger depot by passengers
when proceeding to or coming from its trains, or than
a carrier may charge the shipper for the use of its general
freight depot in merely delivering his goods for shipment,
or the consignee of such goods for its use in merely receiving them there within a reasonable time after they are
unloaded from the cars. If the carrier may not make

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

such special charges in respect to stock yards which itself
owns, maintains or controls, it cannot invest another corporation or company with authority to impose burdens of
that kind upon shippers and consignees. The transportation of live stock begins with their delivery to the carrier
to be loaded upon its cars, and ends only after the stock is
unloaded and delivered, or offered to be delivered, to the
consignee, if to be found, at such place as admits of their
being safely taken into possession." 139 U. S. at 135-136.
After the decision in this case, there was enacted § 1 (3)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, providing that "The term
'transportation' as used in this chapter shall include . . . all instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage, irrespective of ownership or of any
contract, express or implied, for the use thereof and all
services in connection with the receipt, delivery, elevation,
and transfer, in transit, . . . storage, and handling of
property transported . . ." 36 Stat. 539, 545. 49 U. S. C.
§ 1 (3) (a).
After the enactment of § 1 (3), this Court decided Adams
v. Mills, 286 U. S. 397, which arose before the enactment
of § 15 (5), set forth below. The propriety of an additional charge for the unloading of livestock at the Chicago
Union Stock Yards was in issue, and it was said: "That
the yards are, in effect, terminals of the railroads is clear.
They are in fact used as terminals; and necessarily so.
Whether the unloading in the yards was a part of transportation was not a pure question of law to be determined
by merely reading the tariffs. Compare Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 1V. S. 285, 294.
The decision of the question was dependent upon the determination of certain facts, including the history of the
Stock Yards and their relation to the line-hahil carriers;
the history of the unloading charge dt these yards; and

U. S. v. CITIZENS LOAN CO.
209

Opinion of the Court.

ent value of the monthly installments thereafter payable."
The word "thereafter" plainly relates to the death of the
beneficiary, in a case like the one before us. And this has
been the interpretation placed upon the section by the
Veterans Administration ever since, the requirement
being that the present value is to be computed as of the
date of the death of the beneficiary.
In 1925, § 303 was amended in several respects
The
only one of these which is important here is the addition
of the following words: "said value to be computed as
of the date of last payment made under any existing
award." And this is important only because of the confusion which it has generated in the disposition of this
case. According to a letter addressed to the Solicitor
General by the Administrator of the Veterans Administration on July 14, 1941, the language quoted was added to
§ 303 to correct a specific inequity which had arisen in a
number of cases following the 1924 Act but which is not
encountered here. That inequity arose in this way: In
several cases the estate of the insured had become entitled
to the proceeds of the policy prior to 1924 and a number
of the $57.50 monthly installments had already been paid
to the estate of the insured at the time Congress enacted
§ 303 with its provision for a lump sum payment to the
estate. Since § 303 was made retroactive to October 6,
1917, the amount due the estate in these cases, as in the
others, was held to be the present value of the installments remaining due after the death of the beneficiary,
computed as of the date of death of the beneficiary. But
in these cases, unlike the others, that portion of the installments already paid to the estate which represented
interest had to be deducted from the lump sum award.
To avoid this partial withdrawal of funds which had actually been released in these particular cases, Congress
provided in the 1925 amendment that the "present value
S43 Stat. 1310.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

of the monthly installments thereafter payable" should
be computed "as of date of last payment made under any
existing award." Under this formula, the installments
which had been paid to the estate of an insured prior
to 1924 were not disturbed. The Veterans Administration has consistently treated the 1925 amendment as applicable only to this limited number of cases. In the
others, it has invariably computed the "present value" as
of the date of death of the beneficiary. This administrative interpretation over a period of 17 years, controlling
the settlement of thousands of cases, is entitled to great
weight, "and such construction is not to be overturned
unless clearly wrong, or unless a different construction is
plainly required." United States v. Jackson, 280 U. S.
183, 193.
In this case, no award had been made prior to 1924,
and hence the amount due to the insured's estate could
not be computed "as of date of last payment made under
any existing award." This language of the 1925 amendment therefore cannot be applied to the facts here. But
it does not follow that the balance of § 303 does not
apply. Indeed, § 303 is the only present authority for
the making of any payments to the estate of the insured.7
Disregarding the words added by the 1925 amendment,
the section simply requires the payment to the estate
of a lump sum equal to "the present value of the monthly
installments thereafter payable." And the latter language, as we have said, has been consistently interpreted
to mean "present value" as of the date of death of the
beneficiary.
The Court of Appeals was of the opinion that, because
recognition of the claim had been delayed until after the
passage of the 240 months, the principles of computation
'The insurance contract is expressly made subject to the War
Risk Insurance Act of 1917, and all amendments thereto. See White
v. United States, 270 U. S. 175, 180.

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

Opinion of the Court.

the action of the parties in relation thereto. If there
was evidence to sustain the Commission's findings on
these matters, its conclusion that the collection of the
extra charge from the shippers was an unreasonable and
unlawful practice must be sustained. Atchison, T. & S.
F. Ry. Co. v. UnitedStates, 232 U. S. 199, 221; Los Angeles
Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294, 310, 311." Id. at 409-410.
On February 28, 1920, prior to this decision and during the pendency of the controversy which led to it, there
was enacted § 15 (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act,
which provided that: "Transportation wholly by railroad of ordinary livestock in car-load lots destined to or
received at public stockyards shall include all necessary
service of unloading and reloading en route, delivery at
public stockyards of inbound shipments into suitable
pens, and receipt and loading at such yards of outbound
shipments, without extra charge therefor to the shipper,
consignee or owner, except in cases where the unloading
or reloading en route is at the request of the shipper, consignee or owner, or to try an intermediate market, or to
comply with quarantine regulations. The Commission
may prescribe or approve just and reasonable rules governing each of such excepted services. Nothing in this
paragraph shall be construed to affect the duties and
liabilities of the carriers now existing on February 28,
.1920, by virtue of law respecting the transportation of
other than ordinary livestock, or the duty of performing
service as to shipments other than those to or from public
stockyards." 41 Stat. 456, 486, 49 U. S. C. § 15 (5).
In the subsequent case of Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. United States, 295 U. S.193, it was pointed out that, in
appropriate circumstances, the Commission might properly find that the carriers' duty to deliver livestock ended
with delivery into suitable pens at the Chicago Union

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Stock Yards, and it was recognized that the question of
where the carrier's obligation ends is for the administrative judgment of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Our most recent decision bearing on the Commission's
power to determine when transportation ends, with
reference to shipments of livestock to the Chicago Union
Stock Yards, is Armour & Co. v. Alton R. Co., 312 U. S.
195, rendered in the controversy over the propriety of
yardage charges made in circumstances precisely similar
to those of the present case, by virtue of which Armour &
Co. intervened in the present litigation. There it was
held by a unanimous Court that Armour's Complaint in
the federal District Court should be dismissed, since
primary jurisdiction was lodged in the Interstate Commerce Commission; and it was said that the facts alleged
in the complaint revealed that "there are many questions
relating to complex transportation problems that must
be solved as a prerequisite to a determination of whether
the railroads, in violation of contracts or governing laws,
have failed properly to deliver petitioner's livestock." Id.
at 200. By way of illustration, the opinion detailed several questions which would arise, and among them was the
following: "At what point did the common carriers' duty
to transport come to an end? Neither the statute nor
any applicable principle of governing law can be said
to mark this boundary, under all circumstances and conditions and in all cases." Ibid. The decision agreed with
the view of the railroads and courts below that "adjudication of the issues presented relates to such complex transportation problems that determination of the legal
questions must necessarily be preceded by the consideration of extensive evidence in a specialized field, and that
decision of such questions is by statute vested exclusively
in the Interstate Commerce Commission." Id. at 197.
Finally, it was said that "If use of the terminal facilities
for egress to the street after unloading of livestock is a

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

216

part of transportation, as petitioner alleges, and if this
use is a service for which reasonable compensation is
justified, it cannot be doubted that this charge, like the
unloading charge, is a part of that reasonable transportation rate determination of which is committed to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission. And
before such long-standing transportation customs can be
held illegal, it is of course necessary that evidence be
heard." Id. at 200-201.
Thus it is seen that, before the enactment of § 15 (5),
whether transportation included unloading was a question
of fact for the determination of the Commission. Adams
v. Mills, supra. Section 15 (5) changed this, but it did
not alter the situation with respect to yardage services,
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 193;
and whether they are included in transportation is therefore a question to be decided by the Commission upon the
facts of each particular case, and not by mechanical application of a fixed rule of law as contended by the appellants.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 193;
Armour & Co. v. Alton R. Co., supra. Otherwise, we erred
in requiring "primary resort" to the Commission in the
Armour case with respect to the question where transportation ended. GreatNorthernRy. Co. v. MerchantsElevator Co., 259 U. S. 285. The propriety of the yardage
charges in the present case was a question for decision by
the Commission in the exercise of its judgment, and not
for decision according to any fixed rule of law.
II
In determining whether the Yard Company's unloading
pens were suitable points at which to terminate the
duties of carriers to consignees, and points where the consignees entered into a relationship with someone other
than the-carriers, the Commission was justified in considering, as it did, all that would account for the evolution
461283o._43__.15'

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

of the practice complained of, as well as the effect of
existing and proposed practices on the interest of the carriers, the public, and other shippers. Adams v. Mills,
supra,at 409 et seq.; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 295 U. S. at 198 et seq.; Armour & Co. v. Alton
R. Co., supra, at 201. Neither the railroads nor the
Stock Yards exist for the benefit of the packers alone.
Their patronage is large and important, but neither in the
regulation of the carriers nor in the regulation of the Stock
Yards are they entitled to facilities or treatment that will
ignore the existence of other interests. The Stock Yards
are not only a facility for the transportation of direct shipments from points of country origin to the packers; they
also are an important factor in the entire animal industry
of the United States. The Commission found that the
direct shipments of livestock transported by rail to the
packers at Chicago have exceeded 30,000 carloads annually
for several years, but that the total annual average rail
movement to the Stock Yards was 94,629 carloads.
The bulk of the movement of stock is received in the
Yards during the first days of the week, and approximately
three-fourths of the daily movement is unloaded between
three and eight in the morning. In some instances, immediate removal of the animals from the unloading pens
is necessary to preserve an even flow of livestock from the
cars into the Yards. Apart from the direct shipments,
much of this stock must be watered, fed, and weighed
in the Yards. It is removed to holding pens, and one of
the important functions of the Stock Yards is to furnish
the facilities for marketing. Commission brokers or market agencies receive consignments of livestock and sell
them for the account of the producer, sometimes to the
packers and sometimes to purchasers who require re-shipment.
Shipments must be moved with great rapidity and 9r!er,
and it may be that this can best be doe:by employees

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

Opinion of the Court.

under.a single management and discipline. The customary
handling over many years led to the building up of a
physical plant which the Commission finds makes it physically impossible to remove this stock from the unloading
pens'except by use of the property of the Yard Company.
The interests of the public and of the community are
entitled to consideration. This transportation is of a
special kind of property on the hoof, which calls for
special handling in the interests of economy, safety, sanitation, and health. The Commission has found that
"the evidence fails to disclose how, as a practical matter,
an annual volume of 30,000 carloads of livestock could be
discharged into and handled through the public streets
of Chicago."
The existence and' suitability of alternative facilities
for delivery of livestock were considered by the Commission. Some stock is and can be delivered at team tracks
and some at industrial sidings. These facilities are inadequate for handling the entire volume of direct shipments. It does not appear, however, that the existence
or adequacy of alternative facilities for delivery at other
points is particularly important in the case, because the
shipments involved are consigned to the packers at the
Union Stock Yards by their own choice. It does not
appear that they are demanding an increase of other
facilities, and the case has not been considered in that

light.
The packers object to consideration of their own part
in evolving the situation of which they complain. The
Commission, however, considered it and made findings
as to the history of the relation between the Yard Company and the packers.
The Commission found that, since the Yard Company
began operation in 1865, there has been a line of demarkation between the services which shippers were
°238 1. C.C.179, 194.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

entitled to receive for the transportation charges and the
services received from the Yard Company. The linehaul carriers have paid the Yard Company for the unloading service and absorbed the charge made for such
service out of their line-haul rates. From the beginning,
however, all shippers were required to pay to the Yard
Company a yardage charge on* every animal unloaded.
Dealings with respect to those charges were between the
Yard Company and the shippers, with no intervention
by the carriers. After these practices had been in effect
for about twenty-five years, the Yard Company entered
into certain arrangements under which these packers
participated in the profits from its operations. Some
time before 1890, the packers threatened to move their
plants from Chicago and to establish facilities of their
own for the receipt of their livestock. The packers had
acquired a large tract of land in Indiana as a site for
their proposed plants. They had also purchased property known as the "Central Stock Yards" near the Union
Stock Yards and had erected thereon platforms, pens,
sheds, and sidings for the purpose of receiving all cattle
and livestock consigned to them. They had also filed
a complaint in an Illinois court demanding that the Yard
Company be required to permit the line-haul carriers to
use its tracks in making deliveries to the packers' Central
Stock Yards.
Having put themselves in this independent position
and threatened to reduce the revenues of the Yard Company, the packers negotiated a contract which, in substance, involved the abandonment by the packing companies of this threatened move to Indiana and surrender
of their own facilities for receiving direct shipments in
return fora participation in the profits and capital of the
Yard Company. In 1892, the packers conveyed to Stock
Yard interests the Indiana site and the Central Stock
Yards, and agreed by contract to dismiss the suit filed

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

Opinion of the Court.

in the Illinois court and to refrain from filing any similar
suit for a period of fifteen years; to continue their business at Packingtown, adjacent to the Union Stock Yards,
for fifteen years from July 1, 1891; to have all livestock
slaughtered by them on their premises or within two hundred miles of the City of Chicago, during such period, pass
through and use the Union Stock Yards, and to pay the
usual yardage charge therefor; and they guaranteed that
the Yard Company would receive and collect from its yardage charges on packers' livestock the aggregate sum of
$2,000,000 within six years, and agreed to make up any
deficiency in that amount. The packers also agreed that
as long as the Yard Company conducted its business in
Chicago, they would not interest themselves in any other
stockyards in Chicago for the receipt and use of their
own livestock.
The packers received income bonds of a new corporation, the security of which was the revenues of the Stock
Yards, in the amount of $3,000,000. Swift received approximately one-third. These bonds were subsequently
redeemed by the issuing corporation.
The railroad companies were not parties to this agreement, and the Commission found that the pa6kers; at
the time the agreement was entered into, did not consider the assessment of the yardage charges to be a matter
of any. oncern to the railroads. During the existence of
the agreement described, the packers paid the yardage
charges, and participated in the receipts from such charges.
This agreement expired in 1907, except for the covenant
by the packers not to establish or become interested in any
other stockyards for the receipt of their livestock so long
as the Yard Company maintained its business in Chicago.
It appears, however, that after the expiration of the contract the Yard interests were informed that the packers
were still threatening to move their plant from Chicago,
and it appears that Swift expected to receive a share of

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

the Yard's earnings as late as 1918, but there is no proof
that it did receive anything in addition to the bonds
received under the contract of 1892. J. 0. Armour, of
Armour & Company, however, received substantial benefits after 1907.
Thus, for more than seventy years the responsibility
of the railroads in respect of direct shipments consigned
to the packers has ended with the unloading service.
The packers, from that point on, have negotiated their
own arrangement with the Yard Company. More recently, of course, the Stock Yards have passed under public
regulation, and discrimination or rebating of the kind
once practiced is no longer possible. The Commission
finds that it was the attitude of the packers that their
patronage was a thing of value to the Stock Yards, and
they proposed to sell that patronage to the Yard Company.
The Packers and Stockyards Act having made private arrangements of this kind unlawful,7 the packers now contend that the carriers must protect them against yardage
charges on their direct shipments.
It was the packers themselves who suppressed the competitive yards and alternative facilities for unloading
their stock. The Commission, however, has not held the
packers to be estopped by their conduct. It has only
considered the practice and usage of the packers as bearing on the suitability of the Yard Company's unloading
pens as a point of termination of the carriers' responsibility. The Commission has held it to be a reasonable
practice that the railroads' responsibility for transportation of such direct shipment consigned by the packers to
themselves at the Union Stock Yards ends with unloading
into the unloading pens, which it found to be suitable,
and that the carriers' failure to negotiate or purchase free
egress for such shipments from the unloading pens has
7 42

Stat. 161, 7 U. S. C. § 192.

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

Opinion of the Court.

not resulted and does not result in an unreasonable practice. There is evidence to support the determination, and
the decision of the administrative body charged with making it is therefore conclusive on this Court.8
III
Having properly decided that transportation ended
when the livestock reached the unloading pens, was the
Commission in error in concluding that it had no jurisdiction to inquire into the reasonableness of practices or
charges of the Yard Company beyond that point?
The appellants contend that the fact that property
of the Yard Company was involved in furnishing egress
to the appellants' shipments did not prevent the Commission from exercising such jurisdiction. The Yard
Company, they say, was the agent of the railroads and
acted in a dual capacity, as public stockyards subject to
the Packers and Stockyards Act and also as a common
carrier by railroad subject to the Interstate Commerce
Act. In the latter capacity, it is said, the Yard Company,
as the railroads' agent, provides terminal facilities for
livestock delivery, which is a part of the railroads'
obligation.
The Stock Yards are named in the railroads' tariffs
as a specific station to which the railroad rates to Chicago
are applicable. The line-haul railroads publish an allowance to the Yard Company of $1.25 per single-deck car,
and $1.50 per double-deck car, for unloading livestock.
The Yard Company also files with the Interstate Commerce Commission its tariff which publishes the same
amounts as charges for unloading the livestock "as carrier's agent." Since unloading is required by statute as
a part of the transportation service, the filing of the
8Adams

v. Mills, supra; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United.

States, 295 U. S. 193; Armour & Co. v. Alton R. Co., supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

terms on which it is performed is manifestly proper,
although shippers are not concerned with the charge
because the railroads absorb it in the line-haul rate. Because the Yard Company in this specific and limited
matter acts as agent for the railroads, and in the performance of that transportation service is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, it
does not follow that the Commission may regulate, either
directly or somehow, through the railroads, the other
practices and charges of the Yard Company.
If the Yard Company is in the dual position of being
at once the agent of the carriers for the unloading of the
stock and the principal in rendering any subsequent services, so is it under dual regulatory schemes and authorities.
In so far as it is an agency in transportation, it is subject
to the Interstate Commerce Act and to the control of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. In so far as it
performs stockyard services, it is subject to the Packers
and Stockyards Act and to the regulation of the Secretary
of Agriculture. The statutes clearly disclose an intention that jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture over
stockyard services shall not overlap that of the Commission over transportation.' The boundary between the
two is the place where transportation ends, and in this
case that is established to be the unloading pens.
The Union Stock Yards are a public utility. The decision of the Commission that the transportation ends
with unloading leaves the stock in the hands of a public
utility-the Union Stock Yards-for delivery to the consignee. Neither the Interstate Commerce Commission
nor this Court can assume that the charges or practices
9Section 406 of the Packers and Stockyards Act provides in part:
"Nothing in this Act shall affect the power or jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, nor confer upon the Secretary
concurrent power or jurisdiction over any matter within the power
or jurisdiction of such Commission." 42 Stat. 169, 7 U. S. C. § 22w>

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

of that utility are unfalr or unreasonable, that it is charging for services that are not performed or facilities not
used, or that it is imposing on consignees unnecessary services. Nor can the Commission or this Court assume that,
if unreasonable practices or charges are imposed by this
utility, the Secretary of Agriculture would fail to correct
them upon an appropriate complaint in a proceeding in
which the Yard Company is a party and may defend its
practices for itself. In any event, Congress has.provided
that the Secretary of Agriculture is the forum in which
such charges and practices may be questioned and may
be weighed inz the interest, not only of the packers, but
of others who use the Yards and markets and who might
be affected competitively by granting the packers' present
demands. Congress has established an appropriate
forum in which any complaint of the packers against the
real party in interest may be heard and any lawful grievances adjusted, and the Commission was quite right in
refusing to trespass upon its jurisdiction.
It follows that the decree below should be and hereby is
Affirmed.
,MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAs, dissenting:

The question in this case is not where the transportation ends but what the particular transportation service
includes. I do not suppose that it would be contended
that a railroad could lawfully exact from a passenger
who had alighted on the station platform an extra charge
for passing through the station to the street. The reason
why it could not make that exaction is that, although
the transportation ended at the platform, the transportation service included free egress from the station. I think
that that principle is applicable and controlling here.
CovingtonStock- Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128, which
arose prior to the Interstate Commerce -Act, applied that

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGIAS,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

principle to the delivery of livestock at stockyards. This
Court, after stating that a carrier of livestock has no right
"to make a special charge for merely receiving or merely
delivering such stock, in and through stock yards provided by itself," added (pp. 135-136): "If the carrier
may not make such special charges in respect to stock
yards which itself owns, maintains or controls, it cannot
invest another corporation or company with authority to
impose burdens of that kind upon shippers and consignees.
The transportation of livestock begins with their delivery
to the carrier to be loaded upon its cars, and ends only
after the stock is unloaded and delivered, or offered to be
delivered, to the consignee, if to be found, at such place
as admits of their being safely taken into possession."
So far as I am aware, the Covington case has never been
overruled. As recently as 1939 we approved it. For we
stated in Union Stock Yard Co. v. United States, 308 U. S.
213, 219, after reviewing §§ 1 (3) and 15 (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act: "Without the aid of these statutes
the transportation of livestock by rail was held to begin
with its delivery to the carrier for loading onto its cars, and
to end only after unloading for delivery or tender to the
consignee at the place of destination. Covington StockYards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128, 136. The same rule has
been repeatedly applied since the statute was adopted.
Erie R. Co. v. Shuart, 250 U. S. 465, 468; Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 193, 198, and cases
cited; Denver Union Stock Yard Co. v. United States, 304
U. S. 470; 2 Hutchison, Carriers, 3d ed. § 510."
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 295 U. S.
193, did not alter that rule. As stated by the majority in
that case (295 U. S. p. 200): "The Hygrade Company did
not seek and the Commission did not grant relief upon
the ground that the carriers failed to provide egress from
the unloading pens in the public stockyards to the city
streets by means of which consignee's animals might be

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

removed to its plant. Consignee sought free delivery in
cars switched into its plant, but the Commission found the
switching charge not unreasonable. Consignee also sought
free use of the Yards Company's properties, including the
overhead runway to take its animals from holding pens
as well as from unloading pens to its plant." And the majority added (p. 201): "Plainly there is an essential difference between the route from unloading pens to consignee's
plant and a mere way out to the public highways. Transportation does not include delivery within the Hygrade
plant or the furnishing of the properties, overhead runway and all, that are used for that purpose." Although
certain general statements in the opinion are not consistent with the rule of the Covington case, a unanimous Court
recently explained Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United
States as follows: "There the Commission's order directing the discontinuance of appellant's yardage charge to
consignees was set aside on the sole ground that the Commission's findings failed to show that the service for which
thecharge was made was any part of the loading or unloading services, or otherwise a service which the rail carrier was bound to furnish." Union Stock Yard Co. v.
United States, supra, p. 219. That is amply supported
by the reasons given by the majority itself for setting aside
the Commission's order in the Atchison case: "But the
Commission, in respect of the shipments covered by its
order, made no definite finding as to what constitutes complete delivery or where transportation ends. Its report
does not disclose the basic facts on which it made the challenged order. This court will not search the record to
ascertain whether, by use of what there may be found,
general and ambiguous statements in the report intended
to serve as findings may by construction be given a meaning sufficiently definite and certain to constitute a valid
basis for the order." 295 U. S. pp. 201-202. And Armour
& Co. v. Alton R. Co., 312 U. S. 195, did not weaken the rule

. 236

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DoUGLAs,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

of the Covington case. We merely held in that case that
the complaint of a packer who sought to be rid of "yardage
charges" raised certain administrative problems necessitating primary resort to the Interstate Commerce Commission. We did not reach in that case the merits of that
controversy nor the questions of law involved here.'
Hence, I think we reach the question of the application
of the rule of the Covington case to this situation unembarrassed by a prior holding.
I do not agree that Congress has left to the Commission
the power to eliminate free egress from this particular
transportation service. Whatever may have been tht
scope of the authority of the Commission prior to the
Transportation Act of 1920 (Adams v. Mills, 286 U. S.
397), it should be noted that Mr' Justice Brandeis, the
author of Adams v. Mills, joined in the dissenting opinion
in the Atchison case, which repudiated the notion that the
transportation service in this type of shipment was completed at the unloading pens. Furthermore, as stated in
the dissenting opinion in the Atchison case, it is clear that
Congress itself provided a rule, in § 15 (5) of that Act,
which placed on the Commission the duty and the author'It will not do to say that, if the rule of the Covington case applied,
we erred in requiring primary resort to the Commission in the Armour
case. There were several questions relating to complex transportations

involved in- that case which required primary determination by the
Commission. They included possible readjustments of rate schedules,
possible refunds to shippers, and- definition of the boundaries of the
station named in the .tariff. The statement in the Armour case that

the statute did not mark the point where the transportation service
was completed "under all circumstances and conditions and in all cases"
(312 U. S. p. 200) is borne out by the Atchison case, where the consignee, as we have noted, sought free delivery in cars switched into its
plant and the use of an overhead runway from holding pens to its plant.
Clearly, a determination of the precise facts concerning the characteristics and use of a particular station was necessary before a correct
application of the applicable rule of law could be made.

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

ity to see to it that tribute was not exacted from a shipper
by exaction of a separate charge for egress from the station to the street or other public place. 41 Stat. 456, 486,
49 U. S. C. § 15 (5). That section, so far as material here,
provides that transportation wholly by railroad of ordinary livestock in carload lois received at public stockyards
"shall include all necessary service of unloading and . . .
delivery at public stockyards of inbound shipments into
suitable pens . . . without extra charge therefor to the
shipper, consignee, or owner . . ." To say that carriers
need not furnish facilities for delivery and immediate removal of livestock by the consignee, without extra charge,
is to give § 15 (5) an interpretation which is not only "ingenious" (Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States,
supra, p. 205, dissenting opinion) but which is also quite
oblivious of the crying abuses which § 15 (5) was designed
to correct. The words "all necessary service of unloading
and . . . delivery" of livestock at public stockyards must
be taken to include all services at a terminal incidental
to obtaining delivery of the livestock. Any delivery "into
suitable pens" must be taken "to mean pens to which the
consignees may gain unimpeded access for the purpose of
removing their stock." Id., p. 206. As stated by Commissioner Eastman in Hygrade Food Products Corp. v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 195 I. C. C. 553, 559, pens
are not "suitable," within the meaning of § 15 (5), where
they do not "permit of reasonable opportunity to accept
delivery and remove the livestock from the premises after
notice of arrival." Otherwise, the purpose of § 15 (5) in
removing "an old evil" is defeated and "a crop of new
ones" is sanctioned "by giving stock yards and rail carriers of livestock carte blanche to impose vexatious charges
which for more than thirty years had been condemned by
this Court." Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. UnitedStates,
supra,295 U. S. at p. 206, dissenting opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DouGlAs, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

The legislative history of § 15 (5) was reviewed in the
dissenting opinion in the Atchison case. 295 U. S. at pp.
207-208. The mandate contained in § 15 (5) originated
with the American National Live Stock Association (59
Cong. Rec. 674) and the National Live Stock Shippers'
League. Hearings, Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce, H. R. 4378, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. I, pp.
139-141. The proposal was not vague. It was that there
be "one through rate on live stock for the whole services
from point of origin to the destination at public stockyards
used at market place which shall include unloading into
suitable pens and delivery therein at such stockyards,
where the animals may be counted and checked, including
such facilities as are necessary or in use for making such
delivery." Id., p. 141. It was the enactment of the rule
of the Covington case which was specifically asked. Id.,
p. 874. The argument was that a railroad would not
"make two rates to its own pens if it owned and operated
them, and neither should it do so with respect to pens
which it uses in the same manner. There should be one
fare, the same as a passenger rate, to such depot as they
use in a given city." Id., p. 881. The record shows that
Congress was alive to the evils of which the shippers complained and that it endeavored to correct them. As stated
by the House Managers, the aim of the amendment introduced in the Senate and amplified in Conference was
to provide that the "through rates on live stock should include unloading and other incidental charges." 59 Cong.
Rec. 3264. Indeed, the sole purpose of the amendment
was to impose on the Commission the duty and authority
to eliminate the practices condemned by the Covington
-case. In view of that explicit history, it comes as a surprise. that the Commission can now abdicate and say that
a consignee or owner who has paid a through rate may not
have free receipt of his stock at the station. To hold that

SWIFT & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

the separate charge for unloading livestock into pens,
which § 15 (5) outlawed, may now be exacted for taking
the livestock out, is to make the relief afforded by that
section illusory indeed.
But it is said that the matter is subject to the Packers
and Stockyards Act of 1921 and that, if relief is to be had,
the Secretary of Agriculture must give it. The difficulty
with that view is that that Act provides, "Nothing in this
Act shall affect the power or jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, nor confer upon the Secretary
concurrent power or jurisdiction over any matter within
the power or jurisdiction of such Commission." 42 Stat.
169, 7 U. S. C. § 226. The boundary between the Commission and the Secretary of Agriculture is not the place
where the transportation ends but the time when the
transportation service is completed. It is not completed
until the consignee has unimpeded access to the station
for the purpose of removing the livestock. That view is
supported by Union Stock Yard Co. v. United States,
supra, where the stockyards argued that their loading and
unloading services were subject to regulation by the Secretary of Agriculture and not by the Commission. We held
that loading and unloading services were "common carrier
services placed under the authority of the Commission
by the Interstate Commerce Act." 308 U. S. p. 221. And
we defined the scope of those services in terms of the rule
of the Covington case. Id., p. 219. To call the withholding of the stock until an additional fee is paid a stockyard "service," is indeed incongruous. It is to forget over
half a century of history. It is to take away part of the
protection which Congress afforded shippers by § 15 (5).
It is to interpret § 15 (5) not liberally, as a remedial provision, but strictly against the stock raisers for whose ultimate benefit it was passed. For years the carriers and
stockyards persistently sought to dignify this type of trib-

240.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

ute and exploitation as a "stock yard service." Until the
present, they were unsuccessful. They should fail again.
The Covington case states the correct rule. It is that rule
which Congress enacted into §15 (5) for the protection of
the stock raisers, who ultimately pay the tribute and vexatious charges which the middleman exacts. It is that
rule which we should enforce, until Congress changes it.
The Interstate Commerce Commission followed that
rule in Hygrade Food Products Corp. v. Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry Co., 195 I. C. C. 553. That case met with
reversal here. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra. And the opinion of the Court contained a
dictum that "Usage and physical conditions combined
definitely to end transportation, at least in respect of
these shipments, with unloading into suitable pens as is
now required by § 15 (5)." 295 U. S. p. 201. It is that
dictum which has haunted this litigation and which largely
shaped the ruling of the Commission in the instant case.
For the Commission proceeded from the premise that there
was "no difference in principle" between the Atchison case
and this one, and that this Court had stated in the earlier
case "that the obligation of the line-haul carriers ceased
when the animals were placed in the unloading pens."
238 I. C. C. 179, 189-190, 196. But the Commission was
under no such compulsion. Commissioner Alldredge was
quite right when he pointed out in his dissenting opinion
that the Commission misconstrued the opinion of this
Court in the Atchison case. 238 I. C. C. pp. 197-198.
Hence the conclusion of the Commission, reached in large
measure under the compulsion of that erroneous assumption, should not be given the weight normally due findings
and conclusions of such an expert body.
We should reaffirm once more the rule of the Covington
case and reject the dictum in the Atchison case. We
should hold that § 15 (5) is remedial and should be liberally construed and, as the Commission itself held in the

U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
216

Syllabus.

Atchison case, that this particular transportation service
includes the time-honored opportunity of the consignee or
owner to go to the station and take away his livestock
without payment of an additional toll.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in
this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. UNIVIS LENS CO., INC.

ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 855.

Argued April 9,10,1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.

1. The facts establish venue for this suit in the District Court in which
it was brought. P. 246.
2. Sale by a patent-owner of an article which is capable of use
only in practicing the patent is a relinquishment of the patent
monopoly with respect to that article. P. 249.
3. A patent does not confer the right to control the resale prices of the
patented articles after their sale by the patentee. P. 250.
4. The owner of a patent covering lens blanks (capable of use
only in manufacturing eye glass lenses) and also (as was assumed in this case) covering the process of grinding and polishing them, by which the blanks are converted into finished lenses
for use as eye glasses, devised a licensing -and price-fixing system,
pursuant to which, for a stipulated royatty, one licensee was
authorized to make the blanks and sell them to other licensees,
who in turn were authorized to buy them f om the maker at
prices fid tnd to finish them as lenses according to the patent
and to sell the lenses to other licensees, who were authorized to
sell them to the public-the prices in all cases being those fixed by
the patent owner. The rewards of the patent owner and the
manufacturer of the blanks for the exploitation of the patent and
the patented lenses were derived wholly from the proceeds of
sales of the blanks by the manufacturer, from which proceeds
the royaty was paid. Held:
*Together with No. 856, Univis Lens Co., Inc. et al. v. United States,
also on appeal in6 the District COburt of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.

