364

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

WILLIAMS MANUFACTURING CO. v. UNITED
SHOE MACHINERY CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH DISTRICT.

No. 332. Argued February 13, 1942.-Decided May 25, 1942.
2. In a patent infringement suit, concurrent findings of the two lower
federal courts to the effect that combinations claimed, though involving old mechanical constructions, combine these in the machine in a
new way, so as to produce a new result, are findings of fact which
will not be disturbed by this Court where there is evidence to support them. P. 367.
2. A claim in a patent for a new combination of specified means, applicable to a portion of an old machine, which describes or refers to the
older mechanism in order to show the application and operation of
the improvement, is not to be construed as embracing the old as well
as the new. P. 368.
3. Certain claims of a patent to McFeely for improvements in ai tomatic heel-lasting machines, sustained. Pp. 364, 370.
121 F. 2d 273, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U.

S. 600, to review the affirmance of a

decree of the District Court, 29 F. Supp. 1015, sustaining
certain claims of a patent, in a suit for infringement.
Mr. H. A. Toulmin, Jr. for petitioner.
Mr. HarrisonF. Lyman, with whom Messrs. Charles E.
Hammett, Jr. and Thomas J. Ryan were on the brief, for
respondent.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The suit was for the infringement of Claims 6, 23, 42, 85,
and 91 of the McFeely Patent No. 1,558,737 for improvements in automatic heel lasting machines. The District
Court held the claims valid and infringed.' The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed.2
129 F. Supp. 1015.

' 121 F. 2d 273.

WILLIAMS CO. V. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

365

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant sought certiorari on the ground that the
claims were invalid under recent decisions of this court
because they constituted attempts to repatent a broad
combination of old devices--bed lasters and automatic
tackers-and embodied only aggregations of new unpatentable mechanisms with old mechanical combinations.
In pressing us to grant the writ, the petitioner insisted that
it desired no retrial of the facts but merely a proper application of the law to the facts found by the courts below.
We granted the writ.
In the manufacture of shoes, after the upper, the lining,
and the counter have been placed on a wooden last, and
an insole has been tacked to the last, the protruding edges
of the materials are flattened over the insole and tacked
down at the toe and shank of the shoe. The next operation
is "heel seat lasting," which consists of conforming the
upper materials and insole snugly to the contour of the
heel of the last and fastening them down with tacks.
Originally this was done by hand. Later so-called "bed"
machines were used which employed horizontally moving
plates, called "wipers," to flatten the projecting materials
over the heel seat, where they were tacked by hand. Heel
lasting on a bed machine involves the repeated use of
levers and a foot treadle, and the result is not uniform.
March 2, 1915, McFeely obtained a patent for a machine
which would automatically perform, in one power stroke,
the wiping and tacking necessary to complete the process
of heel seat lasting. In this patent he claimed numerous
combinations of means to accomplish specific steps in the
process, amongst others combinations to effect the clamping of the last, and positioning it during the process, and
to operate the wipers and the tackers in proper relation
to the last. A declared purpose was that the machine
should be able to last the heels of shoes of different sizes.
One machine was built in accordance with the patent and
used for some time. It was found to work satisfactorily on

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

shoes of a small range of sizes, but not to work on shoes
of a wide range of sizes as would be required in the operations of the ordinary factory.
October 27, 1925, McFeely obtained the patent involved
in this case for improvements 8 of the lasting machine
described-in his earlier patent. The improvements erabodied in the claims in suit had to do with a new combination of elements for clamping the last in the machine, a
new combination of elements for the operation of wipers
and tackers in fixed relation to each other and to the heel
of the last, and a new combination of means for positioning
the last vertically and automatically altering the position
during the operation. A manual adjustment was a part of
each of these combinations by which the heel clamping,
the wiping and tacking, and the vertical positioning mechanisms could be adjusted in advance for different sizes of
shoes. The respondent is the assignee of both McFeely
patents.
The petitioner purchased from a German maker, and
used, four machines which were found by the courts below
to be exact copies of the respondent's commercial machines
made under the patent in suit. So thorough was the imitation that even minor features not covered by the patent
were copied. At the time of the trial, alterations had
been made in the petitioner's machines, but the courts
below found that these were for the purpose of avoiding
infringement and that they were not effective to that
end.
If the petitioner's statements in support of the application for certiorari are taken at face value, the point for
decision is extremely narrow. In argument, however, the
"Any person who has invented or discovered any "new and ulseful
machine... or any new and useful improvements -thereof ...

may ... . obtain a patent therefor." R. S. 4886, as amended,_ 35 U.
S.C. § 31.

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

367

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner sought to overturn the concurrent findings below and to have us redetermine the question of the novelty
and usefulness of the improvements described in the combination claims held valid and infringed.
The courts below have concurrently found that none of
the earlier patents cited, including that of McFeely, embodied the combinations of the challenged claims covering means for clamping and holding the last, means for
the movement of wipers and tackers in fixed relation to
each other, and means for the timed vertical positioning
of the last during the power stroke of the machine, each
combination including means for manually adjusting tlie
mechanism in advance for different sizes of shoes. These
findings are to the effect that the new combinations, while
they involve old mechanical constructions, combine these
in a new way so as to produce an improved result. These
are findings of fact,' despite the petitioner's apparent contention to the contrary, and we will not disturb such concurrent findings where, as here, there is evidence to support them. The claim that the combinations are merely
of old elements, which perform no new function and produce no new result, must be overruled.
We come to the petitioner's contention that the courts
below have held the patent valid and infringed on the
theory that the improvements and adjustments disclosed
in the claims entitle McFeely to repatent the entire combination of the old devices, known as bed lasters and automatic tackers. Petitioner argues that they have so held
only because the mechanism of the patented machine permits of its operation upon a wider range of sizes of shoes
'Battin v. Taggert, 17 How. 74,85; Bischoff v. Wethered, 9 Wall. 812,
814; Thomson Spot Welder Co. v. FordMotor Co., 265 U. S. 445, 446;
Stilz v. United States, 269 U. S. 144, 147.
ContinentalPaperBag Co. v. EasternPaperBag Co., 210 U S. 405,
416,422; Adamson v. Gilliland,242 U. S. 350.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

than the machine earlier patented, and that it does so
operate merely because of three trifling mechanical
adjustments which it embodies.
The contention is not in accord with the holdings below.
It is true that both courts found that manual adjustments
are provided which are not found in the earlier McFeely
patent or in the prior art as applied to the three combinations embodied in the claims in suit. But the findings
do not stop there. In respect of each claimed combination, both courts have found that they embody other improvements, in addition to mere manual preliminary
adjustments, and that each combination exhibits invention in that its elements co~perate in a new and useful way
to accomplish an improved result.
The petitioner, however, contends that the breadth of
the, claims in suit is such that, instead of patenting the
combinations claimed as improvements over the prior art,
and restricting the claims to the improvements, the patentee sought to blanket every machine which combines
the old bed laster with the equally old automatic tacking
device. It is said that our decisions in Bassick Mfg. Co. v.
Hollingshead,298 U. S. 415, and Lincoln Engineering Co.
v. Stewart-Warner Corp., 303 U. S. 545, forbid any such
extension of the patent monopoly.
We think, however, that each of the claims is confined
to a combination of specified means applicable only to a
restricted portion and function of the whole machine. In
stating his claims, the patentee sometimes says "a machine
of the class described having, in combination, ... " Obviously, no machine will infringe which does not have in
combination the means specified in each of the claims for
accomplishing the particular portion of the total operation
covered by the claim. Other claims refer to "a lasting
mechanism of the class described having, in combination,
. . ." The same comment is applicable. Other claims
read: "In a machine of the class described, the combina-

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

Opinion of the Court.

tion .. ." Such preliminary statement is commonly and
properly used to specify the type of machine in which the
claimed subsidiary combination of elements works an
improvement over the prior art.' In describing the novel
combinations embodied in the claims, it was necessary to
make reference to certain portions of the machine in connection with which the new combinations were to operate
and with which they were to dovetail,' but, in mentioning
these other mechanical parts, the claim does not purport
to embody them as elements of the claimed combination.
To construe such a claim for a combination of new elements intended to be embodied in some well recognized
mechanical aggregation, such as a sewing machine or a
washing machine, as a claim covering all the mechanical
details, or all the well known parts of the machine, would
be to nullify every patent for an improvement in a type of
machine long in use and would invalidate thousands of
patents for improvements in standard machines. It would
be difficult to describe an improvement in a washing machine without naming such a machine as the thing to
which the patent is addressed, and equally difficult to
refrain from referring to various parts of the machine, such
as the tub or the motor which actuates the washer. But it
has never been thought that a claim limited to an improvement in some element of the machine is, by such reference,
rendered bad as claiming a monopoly of tubs or motors
used in washing machines.
Compare e. g. Grier v. Wilt, 120 U. S. 412, 420, 421; Morley Mal
chine Co. v. Lancaster,129 U. S. 263, 266; Keystone ManufacturingCot
v. Adams, 151 U. S. 139, 142; Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155
U. S. 286, 289, 290; Boyd v. Janesville Hay Tool Co., 158 U. S. 260,
264; Kokomo Fence Machine Co. v. Kitselman, 189 U. S. 8, 10, 14;
Altoona Publix Theatres v. American Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S 477,
482.
Compare McCormick v. Talcott, 20 How. 402, 404; Loom Company v. Higgins, 105 U.. S. 580, 586.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

Bassick Mfg. Co. v. Hollingshead, supra, and Lincoln
Engineering Co. v. Stewart-Warner Corp., supra,lend no
support to the petitioner's argument. Those were suits
for contributory infringement. In the Bassick case, the
invention was of an improved pin fitting for receiving
grease. The combination claimed was stated as a combination of a grease gun, a coupler, and a pin fitting of
the improved type. It was sought to convict one who sold
grease guns, common in the prior art, of contributory infringement because the seller knew, and intended, that
the guns should be used with the improved pin fitting.
The effort was to extend the monopoly embodied in the
improved pin fitting so as to prevent sale or use of well
known grease guns of the prior art, although whatever
was novel in the improved pin fitting was peculiar to itself and had nothing to do with the grease gun commonly
used in connection with all pin fittings. Had the claim
merely recited that it applied to an improved type of pin
fitting to be used in connection with grease guns and
couplers, the claim.for the pin fitting would have been
good, and would not have been rendered bad by the statement that the fitting was intended, for use in connection
with those other instrumentalities.
The Lincoln Engineering case went on the same principle.
The present suit for infringement is not for the use of
an automatic bed lasting and tacking machine as such. It
is for the use in such a machine of improvements of certain features of the machine. The respondent does not
pretend to fix liability on the petitioner for contributory
infringement by reason of the use of an automatic power
driven lasting and tacking machine which does not employ
the novel improvements of the combinations claimed, and
could not do so. It is admitted, as it must be, that the
petitione1~s free to use the machine shown in the first McFeely patent, which has expired, or any other automatic

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

371

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

lasting and tacking machine which does not embody the
three improvements covered by the claims in suit.' It is
not free, however, to use such a machine if it embodies any
one of the three combinations embraced in those claims
respectively. The use of these combinations is the basis
of its liability for infringement.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting, with whom MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS and MR.JusTIcE MURPHY concur.

In 1873, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for this Court
in Carltonv. Bokee, said: "We think it proper to reiterate our disapprobation of these ingenious attempts to
expand a simple invention of a distinct device into an allembracing claim, calculated by its wide generalizations
and ambiguous language to discourage further invention
in the same department of industry and to cover antecedent inventions. Without deciding that a repetition of
substantially the same claim in different words will vitiate
a patent, we hold that where a specification by ambiguity
and a needless multiplication of nebulous claims is calculated to deceive and mislead the public, the patent is
void." 17 Wall. 46 , 471-472. I believe that the patent
of which the five claims now held valid are a part embodies every one of the vices referred to by Mr. Justice
Bradley, and many more besides.
I recognize that the automatic power-driven heel seat
laster, the machine to which these five claims relate, is a
great technological achievement. But it is not the work
of a single person, nor can it be attributed to any one
generation. On the contrary, it represents the sum of
gradual developments wrought by the skill, perseverance,
Seymour v.Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, 541, 548.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

and creative genius of countless persons throughout many
centuries. To this finished machine, contributions have
been made by those who first harnessed steam, gas, and
electricity to machinery, as well as those who discovered
and used in combination cams, pivots, pulleys, belts,
latches, triggers, springs and spring latches, brakes and
brake blocks.
The exact date of the first use of machines in the manufacture of shoes is not known. But we know that, in 1790,
Thomas Saint secured a patent in England on a machine
for the fastening of soles to uppers; and that, in 1810, M.
I. Brunel secured a patent in this country on a machine
to perform the same function. The progress of the art for
the next fifty years culminated in the stitching machine
jointly patented by Blake and McKay in 1860. By 1876,
this and subsequent McKay shoe machines were earning
more than a half million dollars in annual patent royalties
for him, and had given him the dominant position in the
industry. During this period another current of invention
produced the cable nailing machine which cut nails and
drove them automatically. And in 1883, Jan Ernst Matzeliger invented and patented a machine which "could
simultaneously and in a minute's time hold the last in
place to receive the leather; move it forward step by step
so that the other coaching parts might draw the leather
over the heel; properly punch and grip the upper and
draw it down over the last; lay the leather properly at
the heel and toe; feed the nails and hold them in position
for driving; and then discharge the completed shoe from
the machine."' The foregoing inventions and numerous
others patented and put into use by the close of the century completely transformed the nature of shoe manufacturing. Reviewing these and other developments, the
United States Census Report of 1900 concluded that "the
'Dictionary of American Biography, "Matzeliger, Jan Ernst."

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

373

BLACK, J., dissenting.

genius of the American inventor has provided for every
detail of shoemaking, even the smallest processes being
performed by mechanical devices of some kind." 2
The United Shoe Machinery Company was formed in
1899. It combined in one enterprise the more important
companies in the shoe machinery industry at the time, and
brought under unified control the multitude of patents
which those companies owned. Since that time, the
United Shoe Machinery Company or its parent, the
United Shoe Machinery Corporation, which is the respondent in this case, has continuously and overwhelmingly dominated the industry. The shoe machinery patents which the respondent had acquired by 1918 were
recognized by this Court to be "too great in number for
explanation or enumeration." United States v. United
Shoe Mach. Co., 247 U. S.32, 40. In 1920, the Federal
District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri found
that the respondent controlled, through its system of leasing, at least 95% of all the shoe machinery used in the
United States. See United Shoe Mach. Co. v. United
States, 258 U. S.451, 455.
The narrow field into which the patent in controversy
was projected had already been so crowded-by prior
patents, a multitude of which were owned by the respondent, that the area left for patentable invention was very
small. As the brief treatment in the Court's opinion indi2Census Reports (12th Census, 1900), Vol. IX, part 111, 756.

On the

development of the shoe machinery industry, see Gannon, Shoe Making, passim, and his article "Shoe Industry in the United States" in
Encyclopedia Americana; Hazard, Organization of Boot and Shoe Industry in Massachusetts before 1875, passim; Kaempffert, A Popular
History of American Invention, Vol. H, 404-434; Dictionary of American Biography, "Goodyear, Charles [Jr.]," "McKay, Gordon,"
"Matzeliger, Jan Ernst," "Winslow, Sidney Wilmot"; Encyclopaedia
of the Social Sciences, "Leather Industries," e.g., 307-309.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

cates, the inventions set out in the claims now held valid,
if inventions at all, axe comparatively simple improvements *of an automatic power-driven heel seat lasting
machine.
The work of a heel seat lasting machine is to bend and
flatten out the overlapping part of the shoe upper over
the insole and then tack it down so that it will be ready for
attaching the heel. In the performance of these operations the incompleted shoe is firmly held by a clasping
device in a proper position to permit the leather to be
bent and flattened by "wipers" and fastened to the insole
by "tackers."
It is to the clasping device, thewipers, and the tackers
that the asserted improvements relate. The operation of
these parts must be carefully co~rdinated, and the cordination must be maintained when the machine is adjusted
for different sizes of shoes. Means to accomplish the necessary coordination over a range of different sizes had been
claimed in a prior patent' which, like the patent in suit,
was issued to Ronald F. McFeely and assigned to the respondent. The courts below found and the respondent
here argues that, although the machine made in accordance with the first McFeely patent "successfully lasted
shoes of specific sizes, it proved incapable of operating satisfactorily upon a range of sizes large enough to adapt it
for commercial operation in the ordinary shoe factory."
121 F. 2d 273, 278.
The improvements said to cure the deficiencies in the
earlier machine are covered in the five claims here held
valid. Insofar as these claims set out anything not contained in the first McFeely patent, the modifications are
Claim No. 167, for example, of the earlier McFeely patent (No.
1,129,881) sets out "means to adjust the back stop for shoes of different
sizes including provision for indicating the correct adjustment for particular sizes."

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

BIAcx, J., dissenting.

not at all complex. The tackers and wipers, formerly
connected in a manner which permitted some slight independence of movement, were now rigidly interconnected
so that one could not move without the other; and a handle
was substituted for a screw nut as a means of making a
preliminary manual adjustment for shoes of different sizes.
Changes of equal simplicity were made in the "hold-down"
and the "heel band," two of the parts which clasp the
shoe and hold it in place during the actual lasting process.
There is no doubt that the United Shoe Machinery Corporation, particularly since it maintains a patent department in which patent lawyers are regularly employed,
could have caused these simple improvements to be patented separately and without ambiguity or prolixity. No
possible justification. can be offered for inextricably combining the description of the alleged improvements with a
description of a complete lasting machine. Let us now
turn to the patent in suit to see how far it meets the requirement of R. S. § 4888, 35 U. S. C. § 33, that a patentee
"shall particularly point out and distinctly claim the part,
improvement, or combination which he claims as his invention or discovery."
The patent as a whole sets out 137 claims covering 16
large closely printed pages; it includes 11 more pages of
specifications and numerous drawings; it has a text of
more than 25,000 words, about 14,000 of which are devoted
to the claims. Remarks of Judge Learned Hand, made
with respect to a patent much shorter than the one before
us, are pertinent here: "Such claims violate the very purpose of any claims at all, which is to define the forbidden
field. In such a waste of abstract verbiage ... it takes
the scholastic ingenuity of a St. Thomas with the patience
of a yogi to decipher' their meaning, as they stand."
Victor Talking Mach. Co. v. Thomas A. Edison, Inc., 229
F. 999, 1001. Alexander Graham Bell's basic patent on the
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLAcK,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

telephone, a pioneer invention,' affords an illuminating
contrast. All of Bell's claims-he found five'ample-contain in the aggregate 229 words, less than many single
claims of this patent; and the entire text of his patent is
about one-tenth the length of this one.' The second McFeely patent, unlike Bell's, discloses no pioneer invention.
On the contrary, McFeely stated in his application that he
was seeking to patent improvements. Yet, the features of
a heel seat laster are set out so comprehensively and in
such detail that a trained person would be able to build a
complete machine with only this improvement patent as
his primary source of information.
If the machine as a whole were being claimed in the
second McFeely, arguments of some plausibility could
perhaps be made to justify the length of the patent. For
the automatic heel seat laster in its entirety is a highly
complex machine combining a number of interrelated
mechanisms in a manner which, as the court below pointed
out, enables it to perform its intricate function "in. the fraction of a second and too swiftly for the eye to follow."
121 F. 2d 273, 274. But we must not allow ourselves to
confuse the old and the new. The impressive speed of the
machine is not the result of the'improvements. Like most
of the other admirable qualities of the machine as a whole,
it was attainable before the improvements were patented
and to it the improvements made no contribution.
Even if there is some conceivable basis for crediting the
machine as a whole to McFeely's genius, he was not entitled
to claim it in this patent. For his earlier patent, even
lengthier than this one, had described and claimed as patentable invention every feature of the machine except the
minor improvements to which we have referred.
'See Westinghouse v. Boyden Power Brake Co., 170 U. S. 537, 561562.
Telephone Cases, 126 U. S. 1, 4-14.

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

BLACK,

377

J., dissenting.

One who invents improvements on a prior invention,
whether his own or someone else's, may patent the improvements separately. But I do not believe that our
patent system was intended to allow the indiscriminate
jumbling of the new and the old which would permit the
inventor of improvements to extend his domain of monopoly by perpetuating rights in old inventions beyond the
17 years period Congress has provided.
If we turn from the patent as a whole to the individual
claims, we find in many of them the same ground for criticism: the introduction of something new is taken as an
occasion for reclaiming the old. Claim 42, one of the five
claims held valid and infringed, is illustrative. In these
proceedings, the respondent makes this claim the basis of
his assertion that the second McFeely embodies a patentable improvement in the hold-down mechanism, the part
of the machine which holds the shoe in the appropriate
vertical position during the lasting operation. But there
is no clear and distinct statement in Claim 42 so limiting
its scope. On the contrary, the trial court referred to
this claim as "a general claim covering the machine based
on the McFeely patent in suit," and the language of the
claim itself purports to cover a "machine of the class
described." I
6 Claim 42 provides: "A machine of the class described having, in
combination, clamping means to embrace one end of a last and shoe,
end wipers positioned to operate on the edges of the upper at said end
of the shoe, a hold-down mounted for vertical movement and positioned
to engage the bottom of the last and shoe, a support for a last and
shoe constructed and arranged for manually effected movement to
engage the last and shoe with said clamping means and hold-down,
power operated mechanism effective to move said support forcibly to
press the last and shoe against said clamping means and hold-down and
to actuate the clamping means, mechanism effective in timed relation
to the clamping means: to depress the hold-down and support to position the shoe bottom determinately below the plane of the wipers,
mechanism operative to actuate the wipers to break down the edge of

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

Not only does 42 claim many old elements, but they
are claimed in the same manner and with the same emphasis as the hold-down mechanism. Included among these
old elements are: "clamping means to embrace one end
of a last and shoe"; "end wipers positioned to operate on
the edges of the upper at the said end of the shoe"; "a
support for a last and shoe constructed and arranged for
manually effected movement to engage the last and shoe
with [the] clamping means and hold-down"; and "mechanism operative to actuate the wipers to break down the
edge of the upper over the bottom of the positioned last
and shoe." All of these old elements were to operate in
exactly the same manner prescribed either in the first
McFeely or other prior patents, and they were to perform
the same functions they had always performed.
We have held that if a claim does not contain a distinct
and specific statement of what the patentee claims to be
new, it is void. GeneralElectric Co. v. Wabash Co., 304 U.
S. 364. And we have also held void a claim which sets out
an improvement of one part of an old combination but at
the same time purports to cover the improvement in combination with old parts which perform no new function.
Lincoln Co. v. Stewart-Warner Corp., 303 U. S. 545.
Claim 42, today held valid, clearly violates both of these
standards.
the upper over the bottom of the positioned last and shoe, the said holddown mechanism being automatically operative subsequently deter-

minately to raise the hold-down, the said power operated mechanism
being operative substantially coincidently correspondingly to raise the
said support to engage the bottom of the last and shoe with said holddown with the shoe bottom positioned substantially in the plane of the
wipers, and the end wiper mechanism being subsequently operative in
timed relation to wipe over and compact the broken down edge of the
upper over the bottom of the last and shoe, and manually adjustable
means for determinately varying the amount of vertical movement of
the hold-down."

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

379

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

I believe it could be conclusively shown that almost all
of the 137 claims are objectionable for one or both of the
same reasons as Claim 42. But the unnecessary length
of this patent makes it impracticable to present a complete
exposition of the vices of each separate claim in a judicial
opinion. It may be possible, however, to suggest in a few
brief statements the extent of the deficiencies and their
cumulative tendency "to deceive and mislead the public"
with respect to the scope of the patent. Carltonv. Bokee,
supra, 472.
Of the 137 claims, 68 purport to cover in unambiguous

language either "a machine of the class described" or "a
lasting machine" or"a heel seat lasting mechanism" without any hint of limitation to a claimed improvement. The
use of such broad language cannot be dismissed as an inconsequential matter of form, since in substance these

claims embrace, with varying degrees of comprehensiveness, all the fundamental features of an automatic power
driven heel seat laster.7
'Claim 55 is illustrative. It provides: "A heel seat lasting machine
having, in combination, clamping means to embrace the heel end of a
shoe, wipers to operate upon the upstanding edges of the upper at the
clamped end of the shoe, means to support a last and shoe in inverted
position, means to raise said support to position the last and shoe for
co-operation with the clamping means with the bottom of the shoe
above the operating plane of the wipers, means to operate the %lamping
means to embrace the heel end of the positioned shoe, mechanism operative determinately to depress said last and shoe support relatively to
the clamping means to upwipe the upper over the sides of the last and
to position the shoe with its bottom in a plane determinately below the
operating plane of the wipers with the upper edges in said operating
plane, and means subsequently to operate said wipers in timed relation
to the shoe support to break down the upstanding edges of the upper
over the heel seat, said support operating mechanism being subsequently
effective in timed relation determinately to raise said support and
shoe to position the shoe bottom in the operating plane of the wipers,
and said wiper operating means being subsequently effective in timed
relation to operate the wipers to wipe down and compact over the heel
seat the broken down edges of the upper."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

All but one 8 of the remaining 79 claims are introduced
by the somewhat limiting phrase "in a machine of the
clasq described." But in almost all of these the introduction is followed by a recital of old elements claimed in the
same manner as they were in the earlier McFeely, and
here again the aggregate effect is to reclaim a heel seat
lasting machine in its entirety.
Recent studies conducted by the Temporary National
Economic Committee show that the technique employed
in the second McFeely patent is not unusual." In essence,
s Claim 39 purports to cover "an end lasting mechanism," but it,
too, attempts to reclaim various old elements.
9 Claim 84 is illustrative. It provides: "In a machine of the class
described, the combination with last and shoe positioning means, of
end embracing wipers, operating means for said wipers including parts
movable to effect a preliminary adjustment of the wipers to the contour
of the shoe while other portions of said operating means are stationary,
and: tackers movable inwardly over the shoe and connected to said
wipers for preliminary adjustment with them."
20 E. g., a "Memorandum of Policy" from the files of an industrial
corporation, set out in the TNEC Hearings, contains the following guidance for the corporation's patent division:
"Continuing the Monopoly by Us or Others
"It often happens that if minor improvements are protected by
patents, machines and processes licensed under the original basic patents are given a much longer earning life by the fact that the minor
improvements cont,/ue the protection on the machines, and even
when the basic patents expire, others are prevented from using the
latest commercial form of the machine.
"Example: The . . . basic patents expired several years ago.
Nobody, however, dare use the present type of . . . machine be-

cause of improvements covered by minor patents. Likewise, if the
original patent protection obtained on particular machines should not
be sustained by the Courts, yet a second line of defense patents covering details and improvements may become a most valuable asset.
, "It has always been our ambition to obtain patents which will be
r~latdd, to furnace, melting and refining, feeding, delivery, forming,
automatic handling, carrying, stacking and annealing. Conceivably

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

381

BLACK, J., dissenting.

it is an attempt to utilize minor improvements to perpetuate exclusive enjoyment of a major instrument of production which rightfully belongs to the public. Distinct separation of the new would afford guidance to those who
wished to use the old when the exclusive rights to it expired. On the other hand, blurring the lines of separation
places anyone who attempts to use any part of the amalgam in jeopardy of burdensome infringement suits. Where
the patent owner has ample resources to bear the costs of
repeated litigation, the power of the infringement suit to
stifle competition is increased. And where potential competitors are weak and few, it may afford a practically complete protection for the preservation of undeserved monopoly.
The circumstances here are most favorable for the use
of patent privileges as a deterrent to all competition. By
its vagueness and generality, the patent in suit creates an
overhanging threat to anyone who might want to produce
any kind of heel seat lasting mal1inery. And this threat
is intensified by the universal recognition of the patent
owner's long established rule over the entire shoe machinery industry.
Moreover, it is entirely unrealistic to judge this patent in
isolation. It is a stage of a process which the record shows
we might lose patent domination of one or more important links, but
still retain practical control of the whole chain by means of controlling
the most efficient form of the other links." TNEC Hearings, Part 2,
777-778.
Cf. TNEC Monograph No. 31, 160: "A patent provides a sanction
but it is about to expire-by some means or other its life must be prolonged. An improvement alone is hardly enough; its importance must
.be magnified until the line between invention and improvement is
completely blurred. A multiplication of improvements is far better;
it creates at least an appearance that an industrial art is being' transformed."

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

began years before and is still continuing, a process by
which it appears possible for the respondent to make the
monopoly endless. The first McFeely patent, assigned
to the respondent, embraced the whole universe of prior
development in heel seat lasting machines.' About a year
after it was issued, the United Shoe Machinery Company
became the owner of another patent on a lasting machine,
Brock No. 1,188,616. The 77 claims of this patent re~mbody too many. of the, features previously covered by the
-first McFeely to allow enumeration here. Four years
later, Pym No. 1,368,968, also on a lasting machine, was
issued and assigned to the respondent. Of the 172 claims
of this patent, there is another multitude embodying identical features of the first McFeely. Although applied for
about a year after the first McFeely, the patent in suit was
not issued until 1925, four years after the Pym patent.
The second McFeely appears to be only the currently
used weapon; the record reveals another in the respondent's arsenal, awaiting service when this one is no longer
useful. 1 To date, the series of overlapping patents has
been continuous. There is no reason to suppose that
abandonment of so successful a practice is contemplated
for the future.
The discouragement to future invention and the potentialities of deceiving and misleading the public, which this
Court condemned 70 years ago, are here present in fullest
measure. Carltonv. Bokee, supra. Opposed to departure
from the salutary rule announced by Mr. Justice Bradley,
I believe the patent before us should be declared void.
"Jorgensen No. 1,852,015, issued in 1932 and assigned to the respondent, purports to cover improvements on a machine for shaping shoe
uppers "over lasts or other forms." It states that the invention "is
herein illustrated as embodied in a machine for lasting the heel ends of
shoes, but it is to be -understood that in its more general aspects it is
not limited to heel-end-lasting machines."

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

II
In addition to the foregoing reasons for declaring the.
entire patent void, there is an independent narrower
ground for reversing the decision below. The five claims
here relied upon set out only an aggregation of old elements
not constituting patentable invention.' And where, as
here, an appellate court can determine from a mere construction and comparison of patents that an alleged new
invention is in reality identical with inventions claimed in
prior patents, the question of patentability should be reviewed. Heald v. Rice, 104 U. S. 737, 749. Cf. Singer
Co. v. Cramer, 192 U. S.265, 275.
It was the view of both courts below that, although a
machine manufactured under McFeely's earlier patent
had "successfully lasted shoes of specific sizes, it proved incapable of operating satisfactorily upon a range of sizes
large enough to adapt it for commercial operation in the
ordinary shoe factory." The five claims in suit relate to
three small adjustments of the first McFeely machine,
intended to cure this alleged deficiency. The respondent
nowhere asserts that the adjustments were intended to accomplish any.other purpose or that in fact they did. Nor
did the courts below rest their conclusions upon findings
that any other purpose was accomplished. They found
novelty and usefulness in the increased adaptability of the
later machines over a wider range of sizes; and in the
minor mechanical changes made -to cure the shortcomings
of the earlier machine, they found patentable invention.
The petitioner's application for certiorari clearly raises this issue.
One of the reasons we brought the case here was the opportunity it
would afford to consider the petitioner's contention that the second
McFeely "merely aggregates old adjusting features with an old cornbination . . . in conflict with the principles applied in such cases as
Grinnell v. Johnson Co., 247 U. S. 426."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLAcK,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

But novelty and usefulness are not enough, for, to be
patentable, improvements "must, under the Constitution
and the statute, amount to an invention or discovery."
Thompson v. Boisselier, 114 U. S. 1, 11. And even though
improvements produce "a more convenient and economical mechanism," or a "more convenient and more salable"
product, or a machine of "greater precision," they are not
patentable if they "sprang naturally from the expected
skill of the maker's calling." 1 As this Court said in 1875,
"Perfection of workmanship, however much it may increase the convenience, extend the use, or diminish expense, is not patentable." Reckendorfer v. Faber,92 U. S.
347, 356-357. Cf. Cuno Engineering Corp. v. Automatic
Devices Corp., 314 U. S. 84, 90-92.
A comparison of the patent in suit with patents of the
past shows that the improvements here were but duplications of old elements to obtain an old result and their application to the first McFeely machine was no more than
a common mechanical expedient. The objective, adapting
the machine to shoes of different sizes, suggests its own
means of accomplishment.
Even before 1900, automatic tacking machines and automatic wiping machines, adaptable to shoes of different
sizes, had been in .use commercially. In connection with
the issuance of his earlier patent, McFeely represented
that he had succeeded in coilibining tackers and wipers in
a single machine and that his patent therefore set out a
pioneer invention, disclosing the first machine organized
for the entire process of heel seat fasting. The United
Shoe Machinery Company built a machine in accordance
with the patent and placed it in a factory for testing pur'3 Grinnell Washing Mach. Co. v. Johnson Co., 247 U. S. 426, 434;
Office Specialty Mfg. Co. v. Fenton Mfg. Co., 174 U. S. 492, 498; Altoona Theatres v. Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 477, 486; American Road
Mach. Co. v. Pennock & Sharp Co., 164 U. S. 26, 41.

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

385

BiAcK, J., dissenting.

poses. Shoes lasted on it were sold to the factory owner's
regular shoe trade. McFeely had described in detail
means to set the parts before the lasting operation began
so that the machine would properly do its work whatever
the size of the shoe."4 It is said the tests revealed that
these preliminary adjustment devices were not adequate
to accommodate all sizes, although they did permit the
machine to function satisfactorily on some.
The problem was to enable the operator in advance to
enlarge or diminish the area within which the tackers,
wipers, and shoe clasping devices would do their work as
the shoe to be lasted might be larger or smaller. The most
obvious answer was adjustments to permit appropriate
positioning of the parts. Three separate hand adjustments were therefore provided to set the tacker-wiper
combination, the heel clasping device, and the hold-down
mechanism. The adjustments were so arranged that the
operator of the machine could either by use of a set screw
or handle place these separate parts in appropriate positions for the particular size of shoe to be lasted. The positions set by the operator are maintained until reset for
shoes of another size.
Technological knowledge and development had advanced too far by 1916 to warrant elevation of such hand
adjustments to the privileged position reserved for inventions. Either in or out of the combination these adjust" The following excerpt from the specifications of the earlier McFeely
is illustrative: "In Fig. 18 the back stop is shown as formed on a rack
bar adjustable by a shaft 690 having a handle at the side of the machine
with a pawl in it to engage a locking ratchet 691 having marked on it
graduations indicating the proper adjustment for different sizes. The
ratchet can be adjusted to position the'graduations for different groups
of sizes such as men's, women's or children's sizes." And the first claim
sets out "means for fixing the gripper in different positions of adjustment both vertically and horizontally relatively to the last spindle for
lasts of different heights and lengths."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

ments performed no more than the old functions that
adjustments by hand levers and set screws had always performed. Yet without these hand adjustments the problem alleged to have been revealed by operation of the first
McFeely machine would not have been met. For hand
adjustments were the indispensable elements of the
claimed improvements. Since I believe that such adjustments should not be raised to the dignity of patentable
invention I think the five claims should be held invalid.
No argument is made that the remaining elements
standing alone would have caused the machine to function
satisfactorily on shoes of all sizes. Nevertheless, I shall
give the reasons for my belief that there is not patentable
invention in the remaining elements of the five claims.
Tacker-Wiper Connection. In the first machine, the
tackers and wipers were loosely connected in a manner
allowing a slight independence of movement. Demonstration of the machine indicated that more satisfactory
results would be obtained if tackers and wipers maintained
a fixed relationship to each other throughout all the movements of the lasting operation. Here again the problem
suggested its own answer. It is difficult to imagine that
any mechanic would be ignorant of the principle that if
two parts are fastened together, they will move simultaneously. The change in the tacker-wiper mechanism was no
more than the application of this principle. Tackers and
wipers were more rigidly interconnected. Even if such
an expedient could ever have been invention, it had been
anticipated in the field of shoe machinery as far back as
1881, when Geoge W. Copeland, Matthias Brock, and
Joseph E. Crisp obtained Patent No. 244,714 on an automatic power-driven lasting machine.which claimed a combination of wiper plates and fasteners to be moved simultaneously to the proper position for wiping and fastening
the sole. I can see no evidence whatever of an exercise of

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

387

BLAck, J., dissenting.

the inventive faculty in the fastening of tackers and wipers
rigidly together so as to cause them to move simultaneously and maintain a fixed relationship with each other.
Heel Band and Hold-Down. The first McFeely, as had
many prior patents, described a U-shaped leather heel
band adapted to grip and hold the shoe while it was wiped
and tacked. It is asserted that the patent in suit added
attachments which permit the heel band to slide relative
to its supports. The first McFeely also described a holddown device for maintaining the shoe in appropriate vertical position for the lasting operations. It is asserted that
the claim of the second McFeely which provides for the
hold-down mechanism modifies the first by introducing
a new "sequence of operations." The asserted modifications of both heel band and hold-down are claimed in conjunction with the hand adjustments previously discussed.
Since the beginning of shoe lasting, it has been recognized that the shoe must be held firmly in the proper position for wiping and tacking. Heel bands and hold-downs
similar to those claimed here appear in the record in numerous drawings, specifications, and claims of a long series
of patents prior to the one before us. The great number
of-patents, embodying apparently limitless variations of
the same basic principles, suggests that the€public had before McFeely's second patent already paid in fullest measure for heel bands and hold-downs.
Examination of only three of these patents-Plant No.
958,280 (1910), Keyes No. 1,023,854 (1912), and Brock
No. 1,188,616 (1916)-is enough to show Jornplete anticipation of the entire principle of the sliding heel band
capable of forward and backward movement if not every
essential mechanical detail.
The general claim of the second McFeely which sets out
the hold-down mechanism is said to provide for a "particular sequence" of operations. Insofar as the ambiguities

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BMcx, J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

of this claim 11 permit such a deduction, there is nevertheless a failure to disclose any patentable invention. Of
course, the sequence of operations in which the hold-down
plays a crucial part is important. For the shoe must be
maintained in' such a vertical position that the successive
strokes of the wipers will perform their proper function.
If the shoe is too low with respect to the wipers, the leather
will not be bent down sufficiently far; if the shoe is too
high with respect to the wipers, the wipers will hit the
shoe below the insole and therefore will not produce any
bending of the leather at all. But in setting out a mechanism to insure the proper relationship between the level
of the shoe and the level of the wipers during successive
strokes of the machine, the second McFeely patent is by
no means new. Claim 49 of the first McFeely patent includes a "provision for changing relatively the plane of
action of the wipers and the position of the shoe between
successive actuations of the wipers." And in Claim 164
of the first McFeely it appears that the hold-down mechanism was recognized as having a major role in accomplishing this purpose. For Claim 164 specifically provides
"means for automatically actuating the hold down upwardly and then downwardly again between the initial
advance of thewiper and a final retraction of the wiper."
If the "sequence" of the second McFeely is any different,
the difference cannot be seen in the provisions of the claim
relied upon, nor is it explained in the record; if, as I believe, the "sequence" in both patents is the same, the
second is invalid because anticipated.
In short, this record shows that the old elements composing the asserted improvements here had been described and redescribed, claimed and reclaimed as patentable inventions. The respondent has used every one of
'15 See discussion of the invalidity of this claim (No. 42)
at pp.
377-378,supra.

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

389

BiAcK, J., dissenting.

them in previous patents now expired. It should not be
allowed to continue its exclusive control over their use
and enjoyment.
There is perhap6 another possible ground for concluding
that the five claims set out patentable invention. Conceivably the three asserted improvements, although each
separately is no more than a mechanical expedient or a
simple adaptation of prior invention, could be accepted
in combination as an exercise of the inventive faculty.
The court below apparently did evaluate the improvements in combination, for it found that, taken together,
they resulted in a "new unitary mode of operation of the
entire machine." 121 F. 2d 273, 278. But the statement
is unexplained, and I cannot find support for it in the
record. On the contrary, comparison of the first and
second McFeely patents shows that the basic mode of
operation of the entire machine in both was identical.
In the earlier machine, the shoe was placed on a last at
the end of a jack, firmly held in position while the wiping
and tacking took place, and then released. In these
fundamental respects, the mode of operation provided for
in the second McFeely patent is the same, whatever modifications McFeely may have added for the purpose of increasing adaptability to different sizes of shoes not having
affected it in the slightest.
In any event, "each claim must stand or fall, as itself
sufficiently defining invention, independently of the others." Altoona Theatres v. Tri-ErgonCorp., 294 U. S. 477,,
487. None of the five claims here in suit discloses a "new
unitary mode of operation of the entire machine." Even
if it were possible to deduce from the five claims taken together that McFeely had made such a disclosure, nevertheless the patent ought not to be treated as if the disclosure had actually been made in appropriate form. For
the creation of a sixth claim, a combination of the other

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BMcK, J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

five, which McFeely himself failed to include in his patent
would entail a kind of constructive patenting procedure
for which there is no judicial or statutory precedent.
. The courts below concluded that the five claims in suit
embodied patentable invention. In reaching this conclusion, which I believe is overwhelmingly refuted by
examination of the claims themselves against the background of prior developments in the art, heavy reliance
was placed on two extrinsic considerations: commercial
success and the presumption of validity arising from the
fact of issuance of a patent by the Patent Office.
Commercial Success. When it is a close question
whether the changes embodied in a later patent are a
sufficient advance over earlier patents to constitute patentable invention, the measure of commercial success of
the later patent has been recognized by courts as affording
some aid in reaching a conclusion. But while commercial success has been said to have relevance in resolving
doubts, Smith v. Hall, 301 U. S. 216, 233, it cannot transform an exercise of the common skill of a calling, or an
adaptation readily suggested by experience with prior inventions, or an aggregation of familiar mechanical expedients into patentable invention. Cf. Hildreth v.
Mastoras,257 U. S. 27,34. And where the patent in question re~mbodies a prior patent not yet expired, its commercial success does quite the reverse of establishing
patentability; it establishes the seriousness of the infringement. If the re~mbodied prior patent has expired, or if it
is owned by the owner of the later patent, commercial
success is one index of success in appropriating what
should-have been available to the public or in extending
special privileges beyond the legally permitted term.
I have already given the reasons which convince me that
no patentable invention is set out'in the five claims in suit.
The force of none of those reasons is affected by the commercial success which the respondent has realized. After

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

BIAcK, J., dissenting.

examining the record, I can find no serious doubts to be
resolved. All I can deduce from the commercial success
of the respondent with these machines is the magnitude of
the consequences to the public who have had to pay for
the respondent's extension of an undeserved monopoly
through the use of an invalid patent.
Even if the issue of patentable invention were a doubtful
one, the force of deductions that might normally be drawn
from commercial success is greatly reduced in the circumstances of this case. For, by virtue of its dominant position in the shoe machinery industry, the United Shoe
Machinery Corporation was not seriously threatened by
loss of business to competitors when it withdrew the first
McFeely machine from commercial use. Because there
was no compelling economic incentive to hasten the commercial adaptation of the first McFeely machine, the inferences to be made from its withdrawal are extremely
weak. Controlling the shoe machinery business to the
extent that it did, the respondent was able to accelerate
or delay the commercial exploitation: of its heel seat lasting
machine at its pleasure.
Moreover, the record indicates that the commercial success relied upon by the courts below would be inconclusive
with respect to the second McFeely patent under any circumstances. For there is uncontroverted testimony that
of the 1250 later machines in commercial use only 12 were
built in accordance with the disclosures of the second
McFeely patent. The remainder embody features set
out in a subsequent patent, Jorgensen No. 1,852,015, or
a prior patent, Hoyt No. 1,508,394, (declared invalid by
the court below) or both. Since I believe that the commercial success of the respondent's machine could in no
event establish the validity of the five claims in suit, I do
not find it necessary to determine how much of the commercial success of the respondent's machines is to be
attributed to features not set out in the second McFeely

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

patent.' Such a determination does not appear to have
been made in the entire course of proceedings in this
case.
Presumption of validity arising from issuance. Quoting from the opinion of this Court in Radio Corp.v. Radio
Laboratorie8,293U. S. 1, 8, the court below stated that
the present case obliged it "to give consideration to the

rule that 'one otherwise an infringer who assails the validity of a patent fair upon its face bears a heavy burden
of persuasion, and fails unless his evidence has more than
a dubious preponderance."' 121 F. 2d 273, 277. For
reasons I have already set out I can agree neither that the
second McFeeley is "a patent fair upon its face" nor that
the evidence of non-patentability has no more than a "dubious preponderance." Hence, the prerequisites for establishing a presumption of validity are not here present.
In the absence of a statutory prescription to the contrary,
I see no reason for extending the presumption of validity
arising from the mere issuance of a patent beyond the
narrow compass indicated by the passage quoted from
the Radio Corporationcase.
On the other hand, there are many positive reasons for
not doing so. A patent is a grant of exclusive' privilege.
Yet it is normally issued in a non-adversary proceeding.
Indeed, it is the practice of the Patent Office to keep patent
applications on file in secrecy until the time of issuance. 18
The public, who will be excluded for 17 years from the field
granted to the applicant, are represented only insofar as
the enormous volume of business permits the examining
staff of the Patent Office to watch out for the public interest. ' Moreover, the patent examiner, unlike the court
in an infringement suit, does not have the benefit of the
Rule No. 15, Rules of Practice, United States Patent Office.
See Report of Science Advisory Board, set out in TNEC Hearings,
Part 3X% 1140.

WILLIAMS CO. v. SHOE MACH. CORP.
364

393

BMcx, J., dissenting.

researches of opposing counsel upon the state of the prior
art. Even where the Patent Office conducts interference
proceedings for the purpose of determining priority of invention, a contestant is not permitted to prove that a
stranger to the proceedings was the first inventor. He
can oppose only his own claim of priority against that of
the other party. See Lof tin v. Smith, 126 F. 2d 514, 515.
Whatever the small weight to be given to the presumption arising from issuance of a patent, it is here overcome
by the special circumstance of this case. For the patent
in suit, like the prior one on which it is asserted to have
made improvements, was issued to the same patentee and
assigned to the same owner. In this kind of situation,
the burden of establishing the validity of the second patent is increased, this Court having said that in this "class
of cases it must distinctly appear that the invention covered by the later patent was a separate invention, distinctly different and independent from that covered by the
first patent." Miller v. Eagle Manufacturing Co., 151
U. S. 186, 198. At very best, the presumption of validity
arising from the mere issuance of a patent might be permitted to tip the scale when other considerations leave
the issue of patentability in equilibrium. In the present
case, I believe that the emphasis of the court below on this
presumption was entirely misplaced.
As I view this patent its total impact is appalling.
Out of its great bulk, the respondent is able to assert only
three simple improvements embraced in five claims. And
on examination, it appears that these improvements fall
far below the established requirements of patentable invention. Yet by its terms the patent as a whole purports
to appropriate for exclusive use, not merely.these improvements, but a major instrument of production in its entirety. Furthermore, this patent is one of a group which
seems to have an interminable capacity for self-perpetua-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

tion. If judicial approval is to be given to patents of this
kind, the public benefits which might reasonably be hoped
for under the constitutional provisions and the federal
statutes reIating to patents can never be attained.
MAGRUDER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVE-

NUE, v. SUPPLEE ET Ux.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH DISTRICT.

No. 947. Argued April 30, 1942.-Decided May 25, 1942.
Where, in a sale of real estate, current taxes, which are a lien on the
property and for which the vendor is personally liable under the state
law, are apportioned, so that the vendee pays the part proportional
to the fraction of the tax year ensuing after the purchase, the payment is not deductible by the vendee in his income tax return as "taxes
paid" within the meaning of § 23 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1936,
but is part of the purchase price. P. 397.
123 F. 2d 399, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315

U. S. 794, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for a refund of income taxes, 36 F. Supp. 722.
Mr. Douglas Maggs argued the cause, and Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, Arnold Raum, and Michael H. Cardozo, IV,
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Nathan J. Felsenberg, with whom Mr. James M.
Hoijawas on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
During the years 1936 and 1937, respondents purchased
various parcels of real estate in Baltimore, Maryland. In
each instance, the state and city taxes on the real estate
for the current year. had not been paid at the time of

