OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

486

Counsel for Parties.

316U.S.

QUERY ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE SOUTH CAROLINA TAX COMMISSION, v. UNITED STATES
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THIE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 619. Argued May. 5, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
1. A suit to restrain the enforcement of a state tax on the purchase
and sale of goods at Army Post Exchanges, upon the ground that
such Exchanges are federal instrumentalities and that therefore the
state statute imposing the tax is, as applied to them, unconstitu•tional, is a suit cognizable by a three-judge District Court, under
Jud. Code § 266. Pp. 487, 490.
2. An appeal from a decree of injunction granted by a three-judge
District Court under Jud. Code § 266, lies directly to this Court,
not to the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 490.
3. Where appeals in such a case were taken erroneously to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and from that court to this, and the time within
which a direct appeal from the three-judge District Court to this
Court, under Jud. Code § 266, had elapsed, the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was vacated and the cause remanded to the District Court for the entry of a fresh decree from which a timely appeal
might be taken. P. 491.
121 F. 2d 631, vacated.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 653, to review a decree sustaining an
injunction against enforcement of a state sales tax as applied to the purchase and sale of goods at Army Post
Exchanges.

Mr. Claude K. Wingate,with whom Mr. JohnM. Daniel

was on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
GeneralFahy, Judge Advocate GeneralMyron C. Cramer,
and Messrs. Sewall Key, Arnold Raum, and Alvin J. Rockwell were on the brief, for respondents.

QUERY v. UNITED STATES.
486

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BICK delivered the opinion of the Court.
A statute of South Carolina imposes a license taifor the
privilege of selling tobacco products, playing cards, soft
drinks, and other enumerated articles.' The United States
and two Army officers brought this suit against the members of the South Carolina Tax Commission to enjoin enforcement of this statute with respect to activities of
United States Army Post Exchanges located within the
state. The bill alleged that post exchanges are instrumentalities of the United States, operating as voluntary unincorporated organizations under the direction and supervision of the United States Army and in accordance with
rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of
War; that the respondents had ordered that the tax be
applied to the purchase and sale of commodities by the
exchanges; that enforcement would inflict immediate and
irreparable damage for which the complainants were without any plain, speedy, and efficient remedy in the courts
of South Carolina; that the Congressional consent given
by a recent federal statute (54.Stat. 1059) for the imposition of certain kinds of state taxes within "federal areas"
did not extend to the imposition of taxes on the purchases
and sales Of commodities by post exchanges; and that the
threatened application of the South Carolina statute would
interfere with the activities of the United States Government and would be repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. The respondents' answer admitted the
threatened enforcement and the absence of remedy in the
South Carolina courts, but denied that post exchanges are
instrumentalities of the United States and that application
of the statute to them would be repugnant to the United
States Constitution. With respect to the federal statute
1

Code of Laws of "South Carolina (1932) Vol. II, §§ 2527-2557.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

no
referred to in the complaint, the answer stated: "...
consent of Congress is necessary to permit the State to levy
its lawful tax . . . , the territorial immunity having
been removed by Public Act No. 819 76th Congress."
A Federal District Court of three judges, satisfying the
requirements of § 266 of the Judicial'Code,2 heard the case
and granted the injunction sought by the complainants.
37 F. Supp. 972. The opinion accompanying the decree
stated, however, that the three judges were of the view
that a district judge alone had exclusive jurisdiction to
pass upon the case; and that the decree should therefore
be considered "not as the decree of a three-judge court,
but as his decree, from which appeal lies to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and not to the Supreme Court." Nevertheless, all three judges signed the decree "so that in the
event it should hereafter be determined that the case was
one for three judges under the statute, an appropriate
decree will have been entered." 37 F. Supp. 972, 977.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, of the same view on the
question of jurisdiction, granted an appeal and affirmed.
121 F. 2d 631.
If no mnoe than a question of construction of a federal
statute had been involved, there would have been no
necessity for a three-judge court pursuant to § 266. Ex
228U. S. C. §"380., This section provides in part: "No interlocutory injunction suspending or restraining the enforcement, operation,
or execution of any statute of a State by restraining the action of any

officer of such State in the enforcement or execution of such statute
... shall be issued or granted . . . unless the application for the same
shall be presented to .. . and shall be heard and determined by three
judges, of whom at least one shall be a justice of the Supreme Court

or a circuit judge, and the other two may be either circuit or district
judges, and unless a majority of said three judges shall concur in granting such application .... An appeal may be taken direct to the Supreme Court of the United States from the order granting or denying
... an interlocutory injunction in such case."

QUERY v. UNITED STATES.
486

489:

Opinion of the Court.

parte Buder, 271 U. R.461, 466-467. As a basis for its
conclusion that a court of one District Judge was the
appropriate forum here, the District Court stated that the
"question involved is whether under the provisions of
Public Act No. 819, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., . . . the taxes
imposed by . .. the State Statute, are applicable to and
collectible from the United States Army Post Exchange
at Fort Jackson, Richland County, South Carolina."'
And both courts below thought that disposition of the case
required only a determination of the status of post exchanges within the meaning of the federal statute. 37 F.
Supp. 972, 973, 977; 121 F. 2d 631, 632. But the complainants sought to restrain the state officers from enforcing the state statute upon the ground of the-unconstitf tionality of the threatened application. Not only was
unconstitutionality the ground asserted by the complaints
for the relief sought, but it appears that the relief awarded
was predicated on the same ground. Cf. Wilentz v.
Sovereign Camp, 306 U. S.573, 576.
For the federal Act, so far as here relevant, merely declares that "no person shall be relieved from liability"
for certain state taxes "on the ground that the sale or
use, with respect to which such tax is levied, occurred in
whole or in part within a federal area." A proviso adds
that the "Act shall not be deemed to authorize the levy
or collection of any tax on or from the United States or
any instrumentality thereof." The complainants, assert'There was a stipulation between the parties that if the complainants
should prevail with respect to the post exchanges at Fort Jackson,
the relief granted should be applicable to certain other post exchanges,
ships' stores, and officers' clubs. Botrcourts below- proceeded on the
assumption, which we accept here, that all of these organizations were
located in "federal areas." To this extent, if any, that this assumption
is incorrect, Public Act No. 819 (54 Stat. 1059) has no relevance
whatsoever.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

ing that the post exchange is a federal instrumentality
to which the statutory consent does not apply, rest their
entire case upon a non-statutory ground: the immrunity from state taxation which they contend must be
given, under the Constitution, to the post exchange as
an instrumentality of the United States. And notwithstanding its assertion that only the meaning of the federal
statute was involved, the District Court nevertheless
found it necessary to include in the opinion accompanying
the decree a statement that the threats and attempts to
enforce the state statute "constitute an interference with
the activities of the United States, and are unconstitutional."
Here a substantial charge has been made that a state
statute, as applied to the complainants, violates the Constitution. Under such circumstances, we have held that
relief in the form of an injunction can be afforded only
by a three-judge court pursuant to § 266. Strattonv. St.
Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 282 U. S. 10; Ex parte Bransford,
310 U. S. 354, 361. And this is not, like Phillipsv. United
States, 312 U. S.246, a case in which the state officials
threatened to engage in conduct which state law could
not reasonably be construed to authorize. The complainants in this case sought interlocutory and permanent injunctions against "the enforcement, operation, or execution" of a "statute of a State"; they sought to restrain
the action of officers "of such State in the enforcement or
execution of such statute"; and their attack was based
entirely "upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of
such statute."
Since there was such complete -satisfaction of the conditions which make § 266 applicable, the cause, was a
proper one for a three-judge court and appeal did not
lie to the Circuit Court of Appeals. But a direction by us
to the 'Circuit Court of Appeals to dismiss the appeal

BRILLHART v. EXCESS INS. CO.
486

Counsel for Parties.

which the petitioners brought to it would, without more,
terminate the litigation. For the time within which a
direct appeal might have been brought to this Court under § 266 has elapsed. In the present circumstances, -however, we think the petitioners' right to such an appeal
should be preserved. Cf. Phillipsv. United States, supra,
254. The judgment below is therefore vacated and the
cause remanded to the District Court for the entry of a
fresh decree, from which a timely appeal may be taken
if the petitioners so desire.
It is so ordered.

BRILLHART, ADMINISTRATOR, v. EXCESS INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 772. Argued April 8, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
Before dismissing a suit brought under the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act and presenting only local questions, upon the ground that
another suit involving the same subject matter and between the
same parties is pending in a state court, the federal court must
determine in the first instance whether the claims set up by the
plaintiff have been foreclosed by local law, or can adequately be
tested in the suit in the state court. P. 495.
121 F. 2d 776, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 606, to review a decree which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing a bill filed
under the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act.
Mr. Clarence C. Chilcott for petitioner.
Messrs. Dick H. Woods and Paul R. Stinson for respondent.

