332

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

316 U. S.

PENCE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 665. Argued March 11, 12, 1942.--Decided May 11, 1942.
1. In an action on a government life insurance policy the Government is entitled to a directed verdict on the ground of fraud where
material, representations relating to his health made by the insured
in his application for the insurance, and relied upon by the Government in issuing the policy, are clearly contradicted by statements
made by him after issuance of the policy in support of claims fordisability benefits; where the later representations leave no doubt
of the falsity of the earlier ones nor of the applicant's knowledge
of their falsity, and are neither contradicted, qualified nor explained
by other evidence in the case. P. 338.
2. The representations in the sworn application for government life
insurance were not evidence of their own veracity when challenged
*as false and fraudulent. P. 339.
3. Upon the facts above stated the requisite intent to defraud is
presumed. P. 339.
121 F. 2d 804, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314

U. S. 602, to review a judgment entered

by the District Court on a verdict for the present petitioner
in an action on a government life insurance policy. The
District Court denied the Government's motion, under
Rule 50 (b), for judgment notwithstanding the verdict or
for a new trial.
Mr. William.B. Collins for petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy and Messrs. Julius C. Martin, Wilbur C. Pickett, W.
Marvin Smith, and Keith L. Seegmiller were on the brief,
for the United States.

PENCE v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was begun in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin by the petitioner, a widow, as sole beneficiary of a policy of United
States Government life insurance issued to her deceased
husband, Doctor Lawrence W. Pence. The only contested issue was raised by the Government's affirmative
defense that the policy had been reinstated as the result
of fraudulent representations in Doctor Pence's application for reinstatement of the policy after it had lapsed
for nonpayment of premium.
At the close of the evidence in the trial court, the Government moved for a directed verdict in its favor. The
trial judge withheld a ruling on the motion under Rule
50 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure and submitted the
case to the jury, which returned a general verdict for the
petitioner. The Government then moved under Rule 50
(b) for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, and, in
the alternative, for a new trial. The trial judge denied
both motions and entered judgment on the verdict for
the petitioner. The Government appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which held,
with one judge dissenting, that the evidence was insufficient to establish a case for the consideration of the jury
and that there was no independent ground requiring that
a new trial be granted. It reversed the judgment of the
District Court and remanded the cause for further proceedings in harmony with its opinion. 121 F. 2d 804.
We granted certiorari. 314 U. S. 602.
Petitioner contends that the evidence raised a question
of fact for the consideration of the jury, and that the

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals therefore denies
her the right to trial by jury."
Doctor Pence had been a physician and medical officer
in the military service of the United States from August
7, 1918, to January 9, 1919. While in the service he
obtained a $10,000 policy of yearly renewable War Risk
term insurance, which he allowed to lapse on March 2,
1920, for nonpayment of the premium due on February
1, 1920. In 1925 he gave up a private medical practice
to accept employment as a physician with the Government, acting thereafter as a specialist in eye, ear, nose,
and throat diseases at various veterans' hospitals and
homes maintained by the Government. On June 21,
1927, Pence applied for reinstatement and conversion of
th lalsed term policy. The policy was accordingly reinstated and converted effective July 1, 1927; and, except
for the question of fraud, was in force at the time of his
death on September 21, 1934.
In his application for reinstatement, Pence categorically
denied, among other. things, that he had ever been treated
for any disease of the throat, heart or stomach. So also
did he deny that since the lapse of the policy he had consulted any physician in regard to his health, or had been
ill or prevented by ill health from attending to his usual
occupation.
At the trial there was submitted in evidence a communication from the Regional Medical Officer at Sioux
Falls, South Dakota, to the Manager of the Veterans' Administration in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and dated Decem'This right was conferred by amendment to § 19 of the World
War Veterans Act, 43 Stat. 1302, 38 U. S. C. § 445. Whitney v. United
States, 8 F. 2d 476; Hacker v. United States, 16 F. 2d 702; United
States v. Salmon, 42 F. 2d 353; United States v. Green, 107 F. 2d 19;
H. R. Rep. No. 1518, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 2.
. 'A defense on this ground is authorized by § 307 of the World

War Veterans Act, 38 U. S. C. § 518.

PENCE v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

ber 9, 1931. This reported that a gastro-intestinal X-ray
examination had been made of Pence at the Sioux Falls
Veterans' Hospital on April 6, 1925, and had resulted in a
diagnosis of "suspected duodenal pathology." Pence
made several statements, subsequent to the reinstatement
of his insurance and in support of claims for disability
benefits from the Government, that this examination had
been made at his request. Mrs. Pence admitted that she
knew that such an examination had been made.
About fifteen months after his application for reinstatement, and on August 27, 1928, Pence applied to the Government for disability compensation, claiming that he
was disabled by chronic sinusitis, ethmoiditis, atrophic
rhinitis, and by myocarditis. On September 7, 1928, he
executed and submitted a sworn statement in support
of his application for disability compensation that he suffered from the following disabilities: "sinusitis, frontal,
ethmoiditis, chronic, atrophic rhinitis, chronic, with loss
of sense of smell, myocarditis, chronic . . . incurred . ' .

on or about October 1918." He also stated "That a physician was called in to treat me on Jan. 1927, when he pronounced my disability sinusitis, frontal, acute exacerbation and prescribed serum and local treatment tending to
induce drainage. Treatment was carried out by myself.
Was confined to bed for 8 days." Together with this he
submitted a supporting "Physician's Affidavit," by Doctor
L. Grant Glickman, a practicing physician stationed at
the time of the asserted examination at the National
Home at Leavenworth, Kansas, where Pence was stationed; and employed at the time of the trial by the
Veterans' Administration at Fort Snelling, Minnesota.2
'This affidavit contained the following: "I first examined the claimant on Jan. 16, 1927. His complaint at that time was: Frontal sinusit-is & Ethmoiditis, chronic. Upon physical examination I found
the following symptoms present: Headache, severe; bloody purulent
discharge from nose. I diagnosed the injury or disease as Chronic

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

In 1931 and 1933 Pence made statements in support of
other claims for benefits, similar to those set forth above in
that they contradicted the representations made in his
application for reinstatement involved in this case. Op
November 28, 1931, he submitted a statement in support
of an application for retirement, to the effect that in 1918
a camp physician, by whose authority he remained in barracks under special care while in service, examined his
heart and told him it was "shot"; that he had acute myocarditis and a severe gastric upset which "turned out to
be a forerunner of duodenal ulcer which perforated in
1920 and again in 1925"; and that because of distress and
certain symptoms he later requested a gastro-intestinal
examination at the Veterans' Bureau office at Sioux Falls,
South Dakota. He concluded his statement: "I never
had a day of sickness in my life before this and I do not
believe I have had an entirely well one since." On December 8, 1933, he submitted a sworn application for pension for disability resulting from -active military service,
stating that since the beginning of service one civilian
physician had treated him for sinusitis and myocarditis;
and four others for sinusitis alone. One of the latter examinations was stated to have been made by Doctor Glickman in 1926, and another was stated to have been made
at a time after the lapse of the policy in suit.
Doctor Glickman was produced at the trial as a witness
for the Government, %nwhose employ he still was at the
time. The trial judge ruled out, as improper, questions
by petitioner's counsel bearing upon the question whether
ethmoiditis & frontal sinusitis with an auto exacerbation. The prognosis was fair but incurable. I do believe the claimant's disability is
attributable to his military service, for the following reasons: Statement of claimant that above trouble followed influenza in service.

Never troubled before that time with above disabilities. Claimant
continued under my care until Jan. 25, 1927, during which time

I treated him as follows: Argyrol instillations & packs. Serum
therapy."

PENCE v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

disciplinaryiaction had been taken against Glickman and
others because of the execution of affidavits in support
of ,Pence's claim for disability compensation and other
of his claims. Upon being asked whether he had an independent recollection of the examination referred to, he
stated that he had copies of "records," but not the "originals." The Government's attorney then asked: "Well,
Doctor, do you have a recollection of your examinationrefresh your recollection of your examination of Dr. Lawrence Pence in January, 1927?" Glickman answered "I
do." The Government could not locate the record of the
treatment made on Glickman's report as officer of the
day-apparently the only record made of the treatmentand it was not produced at the trial'.
Glickman testified further as follows: Pence called upon
him for treatment on January 16, 1927, while he was acting
as officer of the day. He concluded that Pence was suffering from sinusitis and ethmoiditis. Pence knew what his
findings were, and stated that he was suffering from a recurrence of a chronic condition. Glickman treated Pence
at Pence's home on two or three occasions between January 16 and January 25. Mrs. Pence was at home then,
although perhaps not on all occasions. Pence had no cold,
but Glickman prescribed a cold serum for him, and also
some argyrol packs.
Mrs. Pence testified; however, that: She had no knowledge that her husband had consulted a physician. She
was close to him, and constantly with him, and believed
that he would have told her of anything seriously the matter with him. He never told her, however, of consulting
a physician, or that he suffered from sinusitis, ethmoiditis,
or myocarditis. Her husband led an active, vigorous life,
and was never confined to bed, except by occasional 'colds,
and suffered from no other sickness. It appeared from her
testimony, however, that she was unable to differentiate
between a "cold" and a sinus infection.

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Pence's two sons and two friends also testified to his
active life and apparent good health.
With the evidence in this condition, the Circuit Court
of Appeals held that the District Court erred in refusing
to withdraw the case from the jury.
The Government, which the Circuit Court of Appeals
held was entitled to a directed verdict, had the burden of
proof on the issue of fraud. Under the circumstances we
have recited, the credibility of Doctor Glickman, its witness, was clearly for the jury, The evidence of the gastrointestinal examination was likewise insufficient to sustain the direction of a verdict. We assume, without
deciding, that the jury could not have refused to believe
that such an examination had been made. Yet the jury
could have properly refused to deduce from this all the
necessary elements of the defense of fraud, established
by our decisions to be: (1) a false representation (2) in
reference to a material fact (3) made with knowledge of
its falsity (4) and with the intent to deceive (5) with
action taken in reliance upon the representation.4
The case of the Government for a directed verdict
rests, therefore, upon the statements of Pence made after
the reinstatement of his insurance and contradicting the
representations in his application for reinstatement.
Their admissibility as against the beneficiary-plaintiff,
Mrs. Pence, is not in issue on this record, for they were
introduced by the Government and received in evidence
without objection.'
'Claflin v. Commonwealth Ins. Co., 110 U. S. 81; Lehigh Zinc &
Iron Co. v. Barnord, 150 U. S. 665, 673; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Hilton-Green, 241 U. S. 613; cf. Derry v. Peek, 14 App. Cas. 337,
374.
'Compare Truelsch V. Miller, 186 Wis. 239, 250, 202 N. W. 352;
Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hillmon, 188 U. S. 208. It does
not appear from the report of the Hillmon case whether the
insured had the power to change the beneficiary, as Pence did in
the present case. § 301 of the World War Veterans Act, 38 U. S. C.

PENCE v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

Pence's representations in the application were not evidence of their own veracity.' His later contrary statements were repeated, and usually under oath; they are
in no way improbable, and are the statements of one who,
being himself a doctor, spoke with knowledge of the subject and bearing of his statements. His admissions left
no room for conjecture as to the falsity of the previous
statements in the application, and of his knowledge of
such falsity. From these facts the requisite intent to
defraud is presumed,' and therefore need not be proven
in the absence of countervailing evidence. Materiality
and reliance were conclusively established by evidence introduced at the trial, if indeed such proof were needed.
§ 512. The effect of such a power to make the insured's statements
admissible against the beneficiary has frequently been dealt with by
the courts and commentators.
4 Wigmore, Evidence (2d ed.)
146, note 6; Kales, Admissibility of Declarations of the Insured against
the Beneficiary, 6 Columbia Law Review 509; Morgan, The Rationale
of Vicarious Admissions, 42 Harvard Law Review 461, 477-78; Finale,
The Admissibility of Declarations of the Assured in Life Insurance
Litigation, 8 St. John's Law Review 258; 4 Minnesota Law Review
359.
The cash, loan, and other values of the policy in suit to Pence at the
time of his various statements contradicting the representations in his
application for reinstatement and conversion of the policy in suit
do not appear in the record. Compare § 301 of the World War
Veterans Act, 38 U. S. C. § 512.
'If the law were otherwise, it would follow that a verdict could
never be directed in favor of a party alleging fraud in any case in
which the falsity of a representation was in issue. Yet, verdicts have
frequently been directed in such circumstances. Cf. Bella S. S. Co.
v. Insurance Co. of North America, 5 F. 2d 570; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Bolding, 57 F. 2d 626; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Perron, 69 F. 2d 401,
certiorari denied, 293 U. S. 570; Columbian National Life Ins. Co. v.
Rodgers, 93 F. 2d 740.
7
Claflin v. Commonwealth Ins. Co., 110 U. S. 81, 95; Mutual Life
Ins. Co. v. Hilton-Green, 241 U. S. 613, 622; cf. Agnew v. United
States, 165 U. S. 36, 53; Stipcich v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 277
U. S. 311, 316-317.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

.

316 U. S.

No evidence in the case served in any way to contradict,
qualify, or explairi-Pence's admissions! We are of opinion that, in the absence of any such evidence, his admissions established so overwhelming a case in favor of the
Government as to require the direction of a verdict in its
favor,9 and the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting:

In view of the high value and importance attached by
custom and tradition to the right of jury trial as a feature
of our federal jurisprudence, and the significant emphasis
provided by the federal and state constitutions, scrupulous
care should be exercised.-by courts and judges to avoid
rulings, on motions for the direction of a verdict, which in
effect wrongfully deprive a litigant of the cherished right.
On such a motion our function is not to evaluate the evidence for the purpose of determining whether fraud has
been committed. I am unable to agree with the opinion
of the Court, because I think there was sufficient evidence
to justify submitting the issue of fraud to the jury.
The opinion. of the Court recognizes that the testimony
of Glickman and the evidence of the gastro-intestinal
examination were insufficient to sustain the direction of a
The denial of Pence's various claims is in no way inconsistent
with the truth of his admissions here involved, since his claims were
allowable only in the event of actual physical disability at the time.
That a man is not presently disabled in no way militates against the
truth of statements that he had previously consulted a physician,
etc.
'Wilkinson v. Kitchin, 1 Lord Raymond 89; Decker v. Poper, 1
Selwyn, Nisi Prius (13th ed.) 91; Hendrick v. Lindsay, 93 U. S. 140;
Arthur v. Morgan, 112 U. S. 495; Anderson County Commissioners v.
Beat, 113 U. S. 227, 241-242; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Martin,
283 U. S. 209,-216.

PENCE v. UNITED STATES.
332

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

verdict, and correctly states the issue thus: "The case
of the Government for a directed verdict rests, therefore,
upon the statements of Pence made after the reinstatement
of his insurance and contradicting the representations in
his application for reinstatement." So stated, the case
presents a controverted question of fact, and, in view of
the evidence in this case, it was for the jury to find the
answer by resolving the conflict between the two contrary
sets of self-serving statements made by Pence.
It is admitted that "Pence's representations in the application were not evidence of their own veracity." As an
abstract matter one would suppose that Pence's later conflicting statements were likewise "not evidence of their
own veracity." However, it is said that reasonable men
have no choice but to admit the truth of those later statements, because they "were repeated, and usually under
oath; they are in no way improbable,. and are the statements of one who, himself a doctor; spoke with knowledge
of the subject and bearing of his statements." These
factors might be persuasive to a jury that the later statements were true, but it is quite a different thing to hold
that they absolutely compel belief. On the basis of the
record, an equally plausible premise is that the statements
in the application were the true ones. Pence was never
absent from work for any appreciable period of time. The
reports of his physical examinations from 1928 to his death
were not altogether consistent, and any defect disclosed
was evidently thought insufficient to warrant allowing
any of his various claims for disability benefits, etc. His
widow testified that they were "pretty close to one another)", that she believed he would have told her if anything was seriously wrong with him, and that she had
no knowledge of any serious ailment or consultation with a
physician on his part. All this casts doubt on the truth
of Pence's statements made after his application for the

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

reinstatement of his insurance and entitled the jury to
pass judgment on them.
Whether Pence was a malingerer or not, disavowing and
then asserting injury and disease as a means of collecting
different benefits from the Government, is not for us to
decide. Suspicion that such was the case does not justify
usurping the jury's function of determining, in the light
of all the evidence, which of Pence's statements were true
and which were false. The case was properly submitted
to the jury. Its verdict, rendered on substantial evidence, should not have been set aside.
MR. JUSTICE BLACx and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join in
this dissent.

UNITED STATES

Ex REL. COY
ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 973. Argued May 4, 5, 1942.-Decided May 25, 1942.
1. Where a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirms an order
of the District Court denying for want of jurisdiction a motion to
correct a sentence made by the convict after expiration of the term
in which the sentence was imposed, the time allowed for petition to
this Court for a writ of certiorari is governed by Rule XI of the
Rules in Criminal Cases, and is 30 days after the entry of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 344.
2. The failure of the Rules in Criminal Cases to fix the time allowed
for appealing such an order of the District Court to the Circuit Court
of Appeals is a casus omissus which left in full force § 8 (c) of the
Judiciary Act of February 13, 1925, 'requiring application for the
allowance of appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals to be made within three months after the entry of the order appealed from.. P. 345.
124 F. 2d 1019, dismissed.

