OCTOBER TERM, 1941.

502

316 U. S.

Syllabus.

parties, or both together, as in this case, render doubtful
their ability to proceed in the state courts. In such a case
a suitor ought not to be penalized, as respondent plainly
is, for invoking the federal jurisdiction.
The Missouri law, if not conclusively against the assertion of the present cause in the Missouri garnishment proceeding, is at least so doubtful that respondent ought not
to be compelled to seek the futile prophecy of the district
court in Kansas as to how the Missouri courts will resolve
an unsettled point of Missouri practice. Since petitioner
has failed to sustain his burden of showing that the case
is a proper one for dismissal, the District Court should exercise its jurisdiction by proceeding to determine the
merits without further delay. If this litigation is ever to
end, it is important for it to get started.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

join in

this dissent.

FAITOUTE IRON & STEEL CO.

ET AL.

V. CITY OF

ASBURY PARK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF
NEW JERSEY.

No. 896. Argued April 28, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
Under the New Jersey Municipal Finance Act, a plan for the adjustment or composition of the claims of creditors of an insolvent municipality may be made binding on all creditors, if approved by the municipality, by the Municipal Finance Commission, and by creditors
representing 85 per cent of the indebtedness affected, and if adopted,
under prescribed conditions, by the State Supreme Court. As applied to holders of defaulted bonds and interest coupons of a municipality, who, under an adjustment decreed by the state court, were
obliged to convert *heir bonds into others bearing a lower rate of

interest, held:
1. The Act is not inoperative as inconsistent with the bankruptcy
power exercised by Congress. P. 507.

FAITOUTE CO. v. ASBURY PARK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

2. The Act does not effect an unconstitutional impairment of the
obligation of contracts. P. 509.
3. The question of the validity of the Act as applied to secured
claims, is not involved and not decided. P. 516.
127 N. J. L. 239, 21 A. 2d 796, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal, by the
Supreme Court of New Jersey, 19 N. J. Misc. 322, 19 A. 2d
445, of a suit to recover upon bonds and interest coupons
issued by the municipality.
Mr. Arthur T. Vanderbilt for appellants.
Mr. Ward Kremer for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE FRANKFmRTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
A New Jersey statute, adopted in 1931, authorized
state control over insolvent municipalities. By a supplementary law, enacted in 1933, a plan for adjustment of
the claims of creditors of such an insolvent municipality
could be made binding upon al creditors. The question
is whether an adjustment so authorized by a state impairs rights in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
The City of Asbury Park is a seashore resort with a
resident population of 15,000. It presents a familiar picture of optimistic and extravagant municipal expansion
caught in the destructive grip of general economic depression: elaborate beachfront improvements, costs in
excess of estimates, deficits not annually met by taxation,
declining real-estate values, inability to refinance a disproportionately heavy load of short-term obligations, and,
inevitably, default. Accordingly, in January, 1935, availing themselves of the. .New Jersey Municipal Finance
Act, creditors applied to. the Supreme Court of New.
Jersey to place the state Municipal Finance Commission
in control of the city's finances.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

The legislation was enacted "to meet the public emergency arising from a default in the payment of municipal obligations, and the resulting impairment of public
credit," Laws of New Jersey (1931), c. 340, ยง 405. In
broad terms, the legislation, through combined administrative and judicial action, adapted the underlying principles of an equity receivership to the solution of the
problem of insolvent municipalities. By a supplementing Act, Laws of New Jersey (1933), c. 331, a "plan of
adjustment or composition of the claims of. all creditors"
may be submitted on their behalf to the supreme court
of the state. If approved by 85 per cent in amount of the
creditors and by the municipality and the Commission,
such plan of adjustment may be adopted "if the court
by its justice determines (1) that the municipality is
unable to pay in full according to their terms the claims
*proposed to be adjusted or composed, and perform its
public functions and preserve the value of property subject to taxation, (2) that the adjustment or composition
is substantially measured by the capacity of a munici-.
pality to pay, (3) that it is in the interest of all the
creditors affected thereby, and (4) that it is not detrimental to other creditors of the municipality." The plan
cannot be authorized, however, if it involves any reduction
of the principal amount of any outstanding obligation.
Any creditor is entitled to appear and to be heard, but a
plan which is so authorized by the court is binding upon
all creditors whether or not they appear, and the substitution of new obligations for old in carrying out the plan
is made effective from the day fixed by judicial order.
To effectuate such a plan, the Act provides further that
the court shall retain jurisdiction and "thereafter no
creditor whose claim is included in such adjustment or
composition -shall be authorized to bring any action or
proceeding of any kind or character for the enforcement
of his claim except with the permission of the supreme

FAITOUTE CO. v. ASBURY PARK.
502

505

Opinion of the Court.

court and then only to recover and enforce the rights
given him by the adjustment or composition."I
Pursuant to this legislative scheme, the City of Asbury
Park was on March 7, 1935, placed under the control of
the Municipal Finance Commission; on February 1, 1936,
a plan for the refunding of its bonded debt was filed in the
State Supreme Court, and that court took jurisdiction of
1

'The text of the legislation as incorporated in N. J. Revised Statutes
(1937), tit. 52, c. 27, indicates the careful character of the legislation:
"52: 27-34. Petition by creditors; plan of adjustment or composition; parties; notice. Upon the verified petition of any creditors of a
municipality in which the commission shall function, made on behalf
of themselves and all other qreditors of the municipality, for .the approval of a plan of adjustment or composition of the claims of all creditors or of a class or classes of them similarly situated, which plan shall
be submitted with and made a part of the petition, the supreme court
by a justice thereof may take jurisdiction of the subject matter and
order the filing of the petition in the office of the clerk of the supreme
court.
"The municipality aid the commission shall be made parties to such
proceeding. All creditors of the municipality shall be made parties
thereto by notice to be published and given in such manner as the
supreme court by its justice may direct. Any creditor of the municipality may appear and assert his rights.
"52: 27-35. Allegations in petition. 'In the petition the creditors
shall allege that the municipality is or will be unable to pay in full according to their terms the claims proposed to be adjusted or composed
and perform its public functions and preserve the value of property
subject to taxation, that the adjustment or composition proposed in
the plan is substantially measured by the capacity of the municipality
to pay, is in the interests of all the creditors affected thereby, and is
not detrimental to other creditors of the municipality.
"52: 27-36. Approval by supreme court justice of plan of adjustment
or composition; findings. In any such proceeding, after hearing on the
plan proposed or on the plan as modified by order and if such plan as
proposed or modified is approved in writing by creditors representing
eighty-five per cent in amount of the indebtedness affected thereby
and by the municipality and the commission, the supreme court by a
justice thereof may by order authorize and approve such adjustment
or composition if the court by its justice determines (1) that the munic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

the proceedings; the plan, as amended, was approved by
the court on July 21, 1937; on September 28, 1937, it was
duly approved by the Municipal Finance Commission; on
April 29, 1938, it was consented to by creditors representing "85 per cent in amount of the indebtedness affected"
by the plan; and, on June 15, 1938, it was put into operaipality is unable to pay in full according to their terms the claims
proposed to be adjusted or composed, and perform its public functions
and preserve the value of property subject to taxation, (2) that the adjustment or composition is substantially measured by the capacity of
the municipality to pay, (3) that it is in the interest of all the creditors
affected thereby, and (4) that it is not detrimental to other creditors
of the municipality.
"52: 27-37. Approved plan binding on all creditors; substituted obligations. The plan of adjustment so authorized and approved shall
forthwith and without any further action of any kind be binding upon
all the creditors included in the plan, whether or not they appear in the
proceeding. In so far as said plan provides for the substitution of any
new bonds, notes or other obligations of the municipality in place of
any outstanding bonds, notes or other obligations, or claims then outstanding, such substitution shall be effectual from and after such date
as may be fixed in such order.
"52: 27-38. Continuance of stay of proceedings against municipality;
action by creditor to enforce claim restricted. After the institution of
any proceeding provided for by this article and pending the determination thereof, the supreme court by a justice thereof may by order continue the stay provided by sections 52: 27-32.1 and 52: 27-33 of this
title.
"In the event that a plan shall be authorized and approved pursuant
to this article the court shall retain jurisdiction of such proceeding and
thereafter no creditor whose claim is included, in such adjustment or
composition shall be authorized to bring any action or proceeding of
any kind or character for the enforcement of his claim except with the
permission of the supreme court and then only to recover and enforce
the rights given him by the adjustment or composition.
"52: 27-39. Reduction in principal of outstanding notes or bonds prohibited. Notwithstanding any provisions of this article the commission
shall not approve any adjustment or composition, or plan presented
pursuant to this rticle, which provides for the reduction in the principal
amount of any outstanding notes or bonds of the municipality."

FAITOUTE CO. v. ASBURY PARK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

tion. The plan provided for the refunding of $10,750,000
of outstanding bonds; these were to be exchanged by the
consenting creditors for new bonds to be issued in accordance with the terms of the plan approved by the court.
The appellants were holders of defaulted bonds and interest coupons issued by the City of Asbury Park in 1929
and 1930-prior, therefore, to the legislation which authorized the proceedings resulting in the challenged refunding
scheme. The bonds of the appellants were part of the
$10,750,000 of refunded bonds which, under the adjustment decreed by the court, could only be converted into
new bonds maturing in 1966 and bearing a lower rate of interest than the original bonds. Deeming the arrangement
authorized under the New Jersey statute to be violative of
the Constitution of the United States, the appellants
brought this suit for the face value of the old bonds and
coupons. The Supreme Court of New Jersey dismissed
the suit, 19 N. J. Misc. 322, 19 A. 2d 445; the Court of Errors and Appeals affirmed the dismissal, 127 N. J. L. 239,
21 A. 2d 796; and the case is here on appeal under ยง 237(a)
of the Judicial Code, as amended, 28 U. S. C. ยง 344.
If the New Jersey legislation which is the foundation of
the refunding plan for the City of Asbury Park is valid,
appellants' claim on the old bonds was barred by law, and
the judgment below must stand. The validity of that legislation is assailed on two grounds. It is contended, first,
that the New Jersey laws constitute municipal bankruptcy legislation, that that field of law-making has been
:prebmpted by Congress, and that the New Jersey legislation is therefore inoperative. To this argument a few
dates furnish a short answer. The present court proceedings began on February 1, 1936. The first federal
Municipal Bankruptcy Act was declared lnconstitutional
on May 25, 1936. Ashton v. Cameron County Dist., 298
U. S. 513. The refunding plan now assailed was approved,
as we have seen, on July 21, 1937. It was thus authorized

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

more than a year before the enactment of the only relevant
federal statute, the Act of August 16, 1937, 50 Stat. 653,
amending the Bankruptcy Act to provide for the composition of indebtedness of taxing agencies. Assuming Congress had power to do so, this Act did not profess to terminate a pending state court proceeding like that now in
question. It would offend the most settled habits in the
relationship between the States and the Nation to imply
such a retroactive nullification of state authority over its
subordinate organs of government.
We prefer, however, to dispose of this objection on a
broader ground. Not until April 25, 1938, was the power
of Congress to afford relief similar to that given by New
Jersey for its municipalities clearly established, United
States v. Bekins, 304 U. S. 27, and then only because
Congress had been "especially solicitous to afford no
ground" for the "objection" that an exercise of federal
bankruptcy over political subdivisions of the State "might
materially restrict its control over its fiscal affairs" whereby States would no longer be "free to manage their own
affairs." The statute was "carefully drawn so as not to
impinge upon the sovereignty of the State. The State
retains control of its fiscal affairs. The bankruptcy power
is exercised . . . only in a case where the action of the
taxing agency in carrying out a plan of composition approved by the bankruptcy court is authorized by state
law." 304 U. S. at 50, 51. New Jersey expressly prohibits any municipality to avail itself of a federal bankruptcy
act "unless the approval 6f the municipal finance commission . . . be first had and obtained." Revised Statutes of New Jersey (1937), 52: 27-40. The City of Asbury
Park has never attempted to resort to a federal bankruptcy
court, and the New Jersey Municipal Finance Commission
has not authorized it to do so. Can it be that a power
that was not recognized until 1938, and when so recognized, was carefully circumscribed to reserve full freedom

FAITOUTE CO. v. ASBURY PARK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

to the States, has now been completely absorbed by the
Federal Government-that a State which, as in the case of
New Jersey, has after long study devised elaborate machinery for the autonomous regulation of problems so
peculiarly local as the fiscal management of its own household, is powerless in this field? We think not.
This brings us to the second and main contention, namely, that the appellants' claims in the form of the bonds
and coupons issued by the City of Asbury Park, constituted contracts, the obligation of which is impaired by
the denial of their right to recover thereon and by their
transmutation, without their consent, into the securities
authorized by the plan of adjustment,
The principal asset of a municipality is its taxing power
and that, unlike an asset of a private corporation, can
not be available for distribution. An unsecured municipal security is therefore merely a draft on the good faith
of a municipality in exercising its taxing power. The
notion that a city has unlimited taxing power is, of course,
an illusion. A city cannot be taken over and operated for
the benefit of its creditors, nor can its creditors take over
the taxing power. Indeed, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, the taxing power of a municipality is
not even 'within its own control-it is wholly subordinate
to the unrestrained power of the State over political subdivisions of its own creation. , "A municipal corporation
. . . is a representative not only of the State, but is a portion of -its governmental power

. .

. The State may

withdraw these local powers of government at pleasure,
and may, through its legislature or other appointed channels, govern the local territory as it governs the State at
large. It may enlarge or contract its powers or destroy its
existence." United States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall.
322,329. And see Hunterv. Pittsburgh,207 U.S. 161.
In effect, therefore, the practical value of an unsecured
claim against the city is inseparable from reliance upon

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

the effectiveness of the city's taxing power. The only
remedy for the enforcement of such a claim is a mandamus to compel the levying of authorized taxes. The experience of the two modern periods of municipal defaults,
after the depressions of '73 and '93, shows that the right
to enforce claims against the city through mandamus is
the empty right to litigate. See Hillhouse, Lessons from
Previous Eras of Default (chap. IV in Chatters, Municipal Debt Defaults); Report of the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the Study and Investigation of the Work,
Activities, Personnel and Functions of Protective and Reorganization Committees (1936), Pt. IV: Committees for
the Holders of Municipal and Quasi-Municipal Obligations, passim;Dimock, Legal Problemsof FinanciallyEmbarrassedMunicipalities,contained in Summary of Proceedings, American Bar Assn., 1st Annual Meeting (1935),
Section of Municipal Law, p. 12 [see also XXII Virginia
L. Rev. 39].
How, then, can claims against a financially embarrassed
city be enforced? Experience shows that three conditions are essential if the municipality is to be kept going
as a political community and, at the same time, the utmost
for the benefit of the creditors is to be realized: impartial,
outside control over the finances ofthe city; concerted action by all the creditors to avoid destructive action by individuals; and rateable distribution. In short, what is needed is a temporary scheme of public receivership over a
subdivision of the State. A policy of every man for himself is destructive of the potential resources upon which
rests the taxing power which in actual fact constitutes the
security for unsecured obligations outstanding against
a city.
To deny a State the means of giving substance to the
taxing power which alone gives meaning to unsecured
municipal obligations, is to hold, in effect, that the right
to pursue a sterile litigation is an "obligation".protected by

FAITOUTE CO. v. ASBURY PARK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution of the United States. For there is no
remedy when resort is had to "devices and contrivances"
to nullify the taxing power which can be carried out only
through authorized officials. See Rees v. City of Watertown, 19 Wall. 107, 124. And so we have had the spectacle
of taxing officials resigning from office in order to frustrate
tax levies through mandamus, and officials running on a
platform of willingness to go to jail rather than to enforce
a tax levy (see Raymond, State and Municipal Bonds,
342-43), and evasion of service by tax collectors, thus
making impotent a court's mandate. Yost v. Dallas County, 236 U. S. 50, 57. But if taxes, can. 6nly.be protected
by the authority of the State and the State can withdraw
that authority, the authority to levy a tax is imported
into an obligation to pay an unsecured municipal claim,
and there is also imported the power of the State to modify
the means for exercising the taxing power effectively in
order to discharge such obligation, in view of conditions
not contemplated when the claims arose. Impairment
of an obligation means refusal to pay an honest debt; it
does not mean contriving ways and means for paying it.
The necessity compelled by unexpected financial conditions to modify an original arrangement for discharging
a city's debt is implied in every such obligation for the
very reason that thereby the obligation is discharged, not
impaired.
More than fifty years ago, Lord Bryce pointed out that
the debt and taxation of American cities had reached "an
alarming figure." Bryce, The American Commonwealth,
p. 607. Beginning with 1915, the evil consequences of the
unhealthy financial conditions of New Jersey municipalities began to occupy the attention of its legislature. Investigations by expert bodies led to a series of enactments
tightening state control over municipal finances. See
Reports of New Jersey Legislative Commission for the
Survey of Municipal Financing, 1915, 1916, 1917; Reports

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

of New Jersey Commission on Municipal Taxation and
Finance, particularly Report No. 2 (Municipal and
County Debt, 1931). The Depression intensified the
need for state control, and the establishment of the Municipal Finance Commission with the powers outlined above
was designed, as stated by the legislature, to meet "the
public emergency arising from a default in the payment
of municipal obligations, and the resulting impairment
of public credit." But this emergency, as the decisions
in this Court during the last ten years amply testify, did
not evaporate. Students of the subject have pointed out
that, in the depression of 1893 as in that of 1873, "the
worst financial difficulties for municipalities came in the
fourth year of the depression." See Hillhouse, supra, at
14. History repeated itself, certainly as to New Jersey
municipalities. See Report of New Jersey Municipal
Finance Commission, 1937, and Second Annual Report of
the Local Government Board (to which the functions of
the Municipal Finance Commission were transferred in
1939), 1940, p. 11. The whole history of New Jersey
legislation leaves no doubt that the State was bent on
holding the municipalities to their obligations by utilizing
the most widely approved means for making them effective. The intervention of the State in the fiscal afairs
of its cities is plainly an exercise 'of its essential reserve
power to protect the vital interests of its people by sustaining the public credit and maintaining local govern..
ment. The payment of the creditors was the end to be
obtained, but it could be maintained only by saving the
resources of the municipality-the goose which lays its
golden eggs, namely, the taxes which alone can meet the
outstanding claims.
The real constitutional question .is whether the Contract'Clause of the.Constitution bars the only' proven way
for assuring payment of unsecured municipal obligations.
For, in the likht of history, and more particularly on the

FAITOUTE CO. v. ASBURY PARK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

basis of the recommendations of its expert advisers, the
New Jersey legislature was entitled to find that in order
to keep its insolvent municipalities going, and at the same
time fructify their languishing sources of revenue and
thus avoid repudiation, fair and just arrangements by way
of compositions, scrutinized and authorized by a court,
might be necessary, and that to be efficacious such a composition must bind all, after 85 per cent of the creditors
assent, in order to prevent unreasonable minority obstruction. As the court below pointed out, in view of the
slump of the credit of the City of Asbury Park before the
adoption of the plan now assailed, appellants' bonds had
little value; the new bonds issued under the plan, however, are not in default and there is a very substantial
market for them. The refunding scheme, as part of a
comprehensive plan for salvaging Asbury Park, both governmentally and financially, was so successful that the refunding bonds were selling at around 69 at the time of refunding, while at about the time the present suit was
brought commanded a market at better than 90. See
Second Annual Report of the New Jersey Local Government Board, 1940, p. 39.
From time to time, ever since Sturges v. Crowninshield,
4 Wheat. 122, 199, it has been stated that a state insolvency act is limited by the Contract Clause of the Constitution in authorizing composition of preexisting debts.
So it is, but it all depends on what is affected by such a
composition and what state power it brings into play.
The dictum from Sturges v. Crouminshieldis one of those
inaccurate generalizations that have gained momentum
from uncritical repetition.
If a State retains police power with respect to building
and loan associations, Veix v. Sixth Ward Assn., 310 U. S.
32, 38, because of their relation to the financial well-being
of the State, and if it may authorize the reorganization of
an insolvent bank upon the approval of a state superin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

tendent of banks and a court, but over the dissent of onefourth of the depositors (except preferred or secured
claimants), Doty v. Love, 295 U. S. 64, a State should certainly not be denied a like power for the maintenance of
its political subdivisions and for the protection not only
of their credit but of all the creditors by an adjustment
assented to by at least 85 per cent of the creditors,
approved by the commission of the State having oversight
of its municipalities, and found wise and just after due
hearing by a court.
The Constitution is "intended to preserve practical and
substantial rights, not to maintain theories." Davis v.
Mills, 194 U. S. 451, 457. Particularly in a case like this
are we in the realm of actualities and not of abstractions
and paper rights, of what things are worth in dollars and
cents, and in what is proposed to realize paper values.
"The question whether the remedy on this contract was
impaired materially is affected not.only by the precarious
character of the -plaintiff's right, but by considerations of
fact-of what the remedy amounted to in practice." Pittsburgh Steel Co. v. Baltimore Equitable Soc., 226 U. S. 455,
459. This was said of the claim of a creditor of a private
corporation. How much more pertinent is it to claims of
these appellants against the municipality of Asbury Park
in the circumstances before us.2 To say that the right of
'Compare Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57, 72.
"Usually, where a contract, not contrary to public policy, has been
entered into between parties competent to contract, it is not within the
power of either party to withdraw from its terms without the consent
of the other; and the obligation of such a contract is constitutionally

protected from hostile legislation. Where, however, the respective
parties are not private perpons, dealing with matters and things in
which the public has no concern, but are persons or corporations
whose rights and powers were 'created for public purposes, by legislative acts, and where the subject-matter of the contract is one which
affects the safety and welfare of the public, other primciples apply.
Contracts of the latter description are held to be within the supervis-

FAITOUTE CO. v. ASBURY PARK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

the Asbury Park bondholders in 1935 was of precarious
character is pure understatement. And we have already
seen how empty was the remedy with which to enforce
that right.
"In the books there is much talk about distinctions between changes of the substance of the contract and changes
of the remedy. :. The dividing line is at times obscure."
Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh,295 U. S. 56,60. The dividing
line will remain obscure if we deal with empty abstract,
rights instead of worldly gains and losses, if we indulge in
doctrinaire talk about "rights" and "remedies," instead
of giving these concepts a content that carries meaning
to the understanding of men. Here we have no such action
as that disclosed in Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, supra,
where with "studied indifference to the interests of the
mortgagee or to his appropriate protection," legislation
was found "to have taken from the mortgage the quality
of an acceptable investment for a rational investor," and
the challenged changes of remedy were found to be "an
oppressive and unnecessary destruction of nearly all the
incidents that give attractiveness and value to collateral
security." Here we have just the opposite-no security
whatever except the effective taxing power of the munici*pality; the effective taxing power of the municipality prostrate without state intervention to revive the famished
finances of the city; state intervention, carefully devised,
worked out with scrupulous detail and with due regard to
the interests of all the creditors, and scrutinized to that end
by the state judiciary with the result that that which was
ing power and control of the legislature when exercised to protect the
public safety, health and morals, and that clause of the Federal Constitution which protects contracts from legislative action cannot in
every case be successfully invoked. The presumption is that when
such contracts are entered into it is with the knowledge that parties
cannot, by making agreements on subjects involving the rights of the
public, withdraw such subjects from the police power of the legislature."

OCTOBER TERM,. 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

a most depreciated claim of little value has, by the very
scheme complained of, been saved and transmuted into
substantial value.. To call a law so beneficent in its consequences on behalf of the creditor who, having had so
much restored to him, now insists on standing on the paper
rights that were merely paper before this resuscitating
scheme, an impairment of the obligation of contract is
indeed to make of the Constitution a code of lifeless forms
instead of an enduring framework of government for a
dynamic society.
:We do not go beyond the case before us. Different considerations may come into play in different situations.
Thus we are not here concerned with legislative changes
touching secured claims. The New Jersey courts have
held that under this very statute tax anticipations and revenue notes stand on an entirely different footing from
other municipal obligations, and in relation to them no
claim is affected by the Municipal Finance Commission
Act of 1931. State v. Fort Lee, 14 N. J. Misc. 895, 188 A.
689; affirmed 118 N. J. L. 181, 191 A. 836. The differentiation thus made by New Jersey regarding various obligations in itself indicates the detailed care with which the
legislation of the State proceeded in readjusting outstanding .municipal. obligations.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs in the result.

