REEVES v. BEARDALL.
265

Opinion of the Court.

*price-fixing agreements with competitors. And if there
were any lingering doubt as to whether the appellees were
parties to a conspiracy, it is dispelled at this point. A
committee of the appellees was appointed to draft the
new agreement. The agreement was completed after
meetings at which representatives of all of the appellees
attended. The 1941 agreements were the product of joint
and concerted action.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON did not

participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
REEVES v. BEARDALL, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 841. Submitted April 8, 1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.
Under Rule 54 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure a judgment which
terminates the action with respect to one of several claims
jo'ined in a complaint is final for purposes of appeal under Jud.
Code § 128, though the other claims remain undisposed of, where
the several claims arose out of wholly separate and distinct transactions or engagements. P. 285.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. 790, to review a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals which dismissed an appeal under
Jud. Code § 128 upon the ground that the judgment appealed from was not a final judgment.

Mr. Daniel Burke submitted for petitioner.
Messrs. CharlesR. Scott and C. P. Dickinson submitted
for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The sole question presented by this case is whether the

Circuit Court of Appeals committed error in dismissing

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

the appeal from the District Court on the ground that the
judgment in question was "not final."
The jurisdiction of the District Court was invoked on
the basis of diversity of citizenship. The complaint contained three counts. Count I contained a claim on a
promissory note executed by respondent's decedent.
Count II contained a claim on an alleged contract between
petitioner and respondent's decedent, whereby the latter
agreed not to change her will, in consideration of petitioner's return of certain securities and petitioner's agreement not to press for payment of the note. Specific performance, or, in the alternative, damages equal to the net
value of the estate, was sought. Count III contained a
claim against one Hamer, who was alleged to hold certain
assets of decedent to which petitioner was entitled by
reason of the contract on which Count II was based. The
prayer was for an accounting against Hamer. Respondent
moved to dismiss Counts II and III. The motion was
granted, with permission to the petitioner to amend.
Counts II and III were amended in respects not material
here. Respondent then moved to dismiss Count II. Petitioner having announced that she did not desire to
amend, the court granted the motion and ordered that
"final judgment" be entered on Count II in favor of respondent. An appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
was dismissed without opinion, on the ground that it
"was taken from a judgment that is not final." We
granted the petition for certiorari because of an apparent
conflict between that decision and such cases from other
circuits as Collins v. Metro-Goldwyn Pictures Corp., 106
F. 2d 83.
In this type of case the Circuit Court of Appeals has
appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal only "final
decisions." Judicial Code § 128, 28 U. S. C. § 225. The
Rules of Civil Procedure provide: "When more than one
claim for relief is presented in an action, the court at any

REEVES v. BEARDALL.
283

Opinion of the Court.

stage, upon a determination of the issues material to a
particular claim and all counterclaims arising out of the
transaction or occurrence which is the subject matter of
the claim, may enter a judgment disposing of such claim.
The judgment shall terminate the action with respect to
the claim so disposed of and the action shall proceed as
to the remaining claims. In case a separate judgment
is so entered, the court by order may stay its enforcement until the entering of a subsequent judgment or
jtidgments and'may prescribe such conditions as are necessary to secure the benefit thereof to the party in whose
favor the judgment is entered." Rule 54 (b). That rule,
the joinder provisions (see Rules 13, 14, 18, 20), and the
provision of Rule 42 which permits the court to order a
separate trial of any separate claim or issue, indicate a
"definite policy" (Collins v. Metro-Goldwyn Pictures
Corp., supra, p. 85) to permit the entry of separate judgments where the claims are "entirely distinct." 3 Moore,
Federal Practice, Cum. Supp. 1941, p. 96. Such a separate
judgment will frequently be a final judgment and appealable, though no disposition has been made of the other
claims in the action. Bowles v. Commercial Casualty Ins.
Co., 107 F. 2d 169, 170. That result promotes the policy
of the Rules in expediting appeals from judgments which
"terminate the action with respect to the claim so disposed
of," though the trial court has not finished with the rest
of the litigation. See Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
Proceedings of Institutes, Washington & New York
(1938), p. 329.
The Rules make it clear that it is "differing occurrences
or transactions, which form the basis of separate units of
judicial action." Atwater v. North American Coal Corp.,
111 F. 2d 125, 126. And see Moore, op. cit., 92-101; 49
Yale L. Journ. 1476. If a judgment has been entered
which terminates the action with respect to such a claim,
it is final for purposes of appeal under § 128 of the Judicial

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

Code. The judgment here in question meets that test.
The claim against respondent on the promissory note was
unrelated to the claim on the contract not to change the
will. Those two claims arose out of wholly separate and
distinct transactions or engagements. And the question
as to Hamer's liability to account to petitioner would arise
only in the event that the claim on the contract not to
change the will was sustained. Hence no question is presented here as respects the appealability of a judgment
dismissing a complaint as to one of several defendants
alleged to be jointly liable on the same claim. See Hunteman v. New Orleans Public Service, Inc., 119 F. 2d 465.
After the entry of the judgment on Count II, the claim
based on the contract not to change the will was terminated
and could not be affected by any action which the Court
might take as respects the remaining claims. Nothing
remained to be done except appeal.
The judgment therefore was final.
Reversed.
SEMINOLE NATION v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 348.

Argued April 1, 2, 1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.

1. A claim against the Government by the Seminole Nation, based
on Article VIII of the Treaty of August 7, 1856, whereby the
Government undertook to provide a certain sum annually for ten
years, to be used for specified purposes, but which, in the amount
claimed, was diverted to the clothing and feeding of refugee Indians, held to have been released by Article VIII of the Treaty of
March 21, 1866, and properly disallowed by the Court of Claims.
P. 290.
*Opinion reported herein as amended by order of June 8, 1942.
post, p. 651.

