GEORGIA v. EVANS.
153

Syllabus.

be based on undertakings whereby benefited lands may
be liable even after they were sold to pay the assessment
liens upon them to recover for defaults in sales of other
assessed properties. See Kadow v. Paul, 274 U. S. 175.
But in the absence of controlling Michigan law, § 15 repels
such a construction. The language falls far short of subjecting lots which have been sold to pay tax or assessment
liens to an additional assessment for the deficit. Such a
construction would defeat the remedy of tax sales as a
means of realizing the assessment lien.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Michigan does not
deal specifically with the status of the lots which have not
been sold to satisfy the assessments. In the absence of
an assignment of error upon that ground, we express no
opinion thereon.
Affirmed.

GEORGIA v. EVANS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

.No. 872. Argued April 14, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.
A State is a "person" within the meaning of § 7 of the Sherman Act
and entitled thereby to sue for treble damages when, as a purchaser
of asphalt, it is injured by a combination suppressing competition
and fixing prices of that commodity in interstate commerce. United
States v. Cooper Corp., 312 U. S. 600, distinguished. P. 162.
123 F. 2d 57, reversed.
Courts of other states have considered similar questions. Henry
Wilcox & Son v. Riverview Dist., 93 Colo. 115, 25 P. 2d 172; Reynard
v. Caldwell, 55 Idaho 342, 42 P. 2d 292; Hartz v. Truckenmiller, 228
Iowa 819, 293 N. W. 568; State ex rel. Johnson v. Dayton, 200 Wash.
91, 93 P. 2d 909. But cf. State ex rel. Frazer v. Holt County Court,
135 Mo. 533, 37 S. W. 521; In re Farm DrainageDist. No. 1, Waupaca
County, 232 Wis. 455, 287 N. W. 806 (district was promisor).'

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

CERTIoRARI, 315 U. S. 792, to review the affirmance of a
judgment dismissing an action for treble damages under
§ 7 of the Sherman Act.

Mr. Ellis G. Arnall, Attorney General of Georgia, with
whom Mr. E. J. Clower, Assistant Attorney General, was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edwin W. Moise, with whom Messrs. Hal Lindsay,
Felix T. Smith, B. B. Taylor, Barry Wright, Donald R.
Richberg, R. L. Wagner, C. S. Gentry, and Marion Smith
were on the brief, for respondents.
A brief was filed by thirty-four States, as amici curiae,
urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Complaining that the respondents had combined to fix
prices and suppress competition in the sale of asphalt in
violation of the Sherman Law, the State of Georgia, which
each year purchases large quantities of asphalt for use
in the construction of public roads, brought this suit to
recover treble damages under § 7 of that Act, 26 Stat. 209,
210; 15 U. S. C. § 15. According to that section, "Any
person who shall be injured in his business or property by
any other person or corporation by reason of anything
forbidden or declared to be unlawful by this act, may sue
therefor in any district court of the United States . ..
and shall recover threefold the damages by him sustained . . ." Section 8 provides that "the word 'person,' or 'persons,' wherever used in this act shall be
deemed to include corporations and associations existing
under or authorized by the laws of either the United
States, the laws of any of the Territories, the laws of any
State, or the laws of any foreign country." 26 Stat. 209,
210; 15 U. S. C. § 7.

GEORGIA v. EVANS.

161

Opinion of the Court.

159

The District Court dismissed the suit on the ground
that the State of Georgia is not a "person" under § 7 of
the Act. Deeming the question controlled by United
States v. Cooper Corp., 312 U. S. 600, the Circuit Court of
Appealsfor the Fifth Circuit affirmed the judgment. 123
F. 2d 57. The importance of the question in the enforcement of the Sherman Law is attested by the fact that
thirty-four States, as friends of the Court, supported
Georgia's request that the decision be reviewed on certiorari. And so we brought the case here.
The only question in the Cooper case was "whether,
by the use of the phrase 'any person,' Congress intended
to confer upon the United States the right to maintain
an action for treble damages against a violator of the
Act." 312 U. S. at 604. Emphasizing that the United
States had chosen for itself three potent weapons for
enforcing the Act-namely, criminal prosecution under
§§ 1, 2, and 3, injunction under § 4, and seizure of property
under § 6-, the Court concluded that Congress did not
also give the United States the remedy of a civil action
for damages. This interpretation was drawn from the
structure of the Act, its legislative history, the practice
under it, and past judicial expressions. It was not held
that the word "person," abstractly considered, could not
include a governmental body. Whether the word "person" or "corporation" includes a State or the United
States depends upon its legislative environment. Ohio v.
Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 370. The Cooper case recognized that "there is no hard and fast rule of exclusion.
The purpose, the subject matter, the context, the legislative history, and the executive interpretation of the statute are aids to construction which may indicate an intent,
by the use of the term, to bring state or nation within the
scope of the law." 312 U. S. at 604-605. Considering all
these factors, the Court found that Congress did not give
to the Government, in addition to the other remedies ex461263--43---11

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

elusively provided for it, the remedy of treble damagesthe only remedy originally given to victims, other than
the Government, of practices proscribed by the Act.
The considerations which led to this construction are
entirely. lacking here. The State of Georgia, unlike the
United States, cannot prosecute violations of the Sherman
Law.' Nor can it seize property transported in defiance
of it. And an amendment was necessary to permit guit
for an injunction by others than the United States. See
Minnesota.v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 70-71,
and Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, § 16, 38 Stat. 730, 737.
If the State is not a "person" within § 8, the Sherman Law
leaves it without any redress for injuries resulting from
practices outlawed by that Act.
The question now before us, therefore, is whether no
remedy whatever is open to a State when it is the immediate victim of a violation of the Sherman Law. We can
perceive no reason for believing that Congress wanted to
deprive a State, as purchaser of commodities shipped in
interstate commerce, of the civil remedy of treble damages which is available to other purchasers who suffer
through violation of the Act. We have already held that
such a remedy is afforded to a subdivision of the State, a
municipality, which purchases pipes for use in constructing a waterworks system. Chattanooga Foundry v.
Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390. Reason balks against implying
denial of such a remedy to a State which purchases materials for use in building public highways. Nothing in the
Act, its history, or its policy, could justify so restrictive
a construction of the word "person" in § 7 as to exclude
a State. Such a construction would deny all redress to
'In 1914 Congress rejected an amendment to authorize the Attorney
General of any State to institute a criminal proceeding, in the name of
the United States, to enforce the anti-trust laws. 51 Cong. Rec. 14519,

14527.

GEORGIA v. EVANS.
159

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

a State, when mulcted by a violator of the Sherman Law,
merely because it is a State.2
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I agree that this case is not ruled by our decision in
United States v. Cooper Corp., 312 U. S. 600.. Certain of
the reasons adduced in support of that decision are inapplicable here. I am, nevertheless, of opinion thatlthe
judgment should be affirmed. I base this conclusion upon
the plain words of the Sherman Act. Section 7 provides
that "any person who shall be injured in his busines or
property by any other person," by any action forbidden
by the statute, may sue and recover damages therefor.
Section 8 provides that the word "person" or "persons,"
wherever used in the Act, "shall be deemed to include corporations and associations existing under or authorized
by the laws of either the United States, the laws of any of
the Territories, the laws. of any State, or the laws of any
foreign country."
If the word "person" is to include a State as plaintiff, it
must equally include a State as a defendant or the language used is meaningless. Moreover, when in §8 Congress took the trouble to include as "persons" corporations
organized under the laws of a State, the inference is plain
that the State itself was not to be deemed a corporation
organized under its own laws, any more than the United
'We put to one side the suggestion that if the Sherman Law gives
a State a right of action, Article III of the Constitution would give
this Court original jurisdiction of such a suit if a State saw fit to pursue
its remedy here. If the district courts are given jurisdiction, a State
may bring suit there even though under Article III suit might be
brought here. United States v. California,297 U. S. 175, 187.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Counsel for Parties.

316 U. S.

States is to be deemed a corporation organized under its
own laws.
It is not our function to speculate as to what Congress
probably intended by the words it used, or to enforce the
supposed policy of the Act by adding a provision which
Congress might have incorporated but omitted.
WILMINGTON TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 775. Argued April 10, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

1. A finding of the Board of Tax Appeals that certain sales of stock
by the taxpayer in this case were ordinary sales and not "short"

sales, was supported by substantial evidence and was therefore
conclusive. P. 167.
2. The criteria which the Board employed in determining whether

the sales of stock in this case were "short" sales complied with the
legal principles announced in Provost v. United States, 269 U. S.
443. P. 168.
.3. The Circuit Court of Appeals is authorized by statute to modify
or reverse a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals only if it is "not

in accordance with law." P. 168.
124 F. 2d 156, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S.789, to review the reversal of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 42 B. T. A. 173, redetermining a deficiency in income tax.

Mr. William S. Potterfor petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whbm Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. J.
Louis Monarch and Morton K. Rothschild were on the
brief, for respondent.

