SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.

31

Counsel for Parties.

SOUTHERN STEAMSHIP CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR

RELATIONS BOARD

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 320. Argued February 9, 10, 1942.-Decided April 6, 1942.
1. The National Labor Relations Board is not obliged to permit the
presence of a representative of the employer at an election by the
employees of their bargaining representative. P. 37.
2. The question whether the employment of seamen automatically
terminates when they sign off shipping articles at the end of the
voyage must be determined upon all the evidence of the employer's
employment customs and practices. Labor Board v. Waterman
Steamship Corp., 309 U. S. 206. P. 37.
3. Seamen who, in order to compel recognition of their union, stage a
strike on board their ship while she is away from her home port
and lying tied up to a dock in another port in this country; and
who deliberately and persistently disobey and defy the lawful commands of their captain and other officers that they perform their
duties in making ready for the departure of the ship, are guilty of
mutiny and conspiracy to commit mutiny in violation of §§ 292
and 293 of the Criminal Code. P. 40.
4. When seamen are discharged for acts of mutiny aboard ship, the
National Labor Relations Board is hot authorized by § 10 (c) of
that Act to compel their reinstatement. P. 46.
120 F. 2d 505, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S. 594, to review a judgment en-

forcing an order of the National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. Joseph W. Henderson, with whom Messrs. Randolph W. Childs and George M. Brodhead,Jr. were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor GeneralFahy
and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Ernest A. Gross, and Morris
P. Glushien, and Miss Ruth Weyand were on the
brief, for the National Labor Relations Board.; and Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

William L. Standard for
Union, respondents.

the

National

316 U. S.

Maritime

Messrs. John J. Burns, FrancisS. Walker, and William
G. Symmers filed a brief on behalf of the American Merchant Marine Institute, Inc., as amicus curiae, urging
reversal in part.
MR. JUSTICE BYRNES delivered the opinion of the Court.
Upon the petition of a union not a party to the present
suit, the National Labor Relations Board ordered an election among petitioner's unlicensed employees to determine
their collective bargaining representative. The elections
were held on board seven of petitioner's vessels during
October, 1937. In the case of the election on board the
S. S. City of Houston, the labor organizations involved objected to the presence of any representative of the petitioner during the voting, and consequently none was
admitted by the Board. No such objection was raised with
respect to the subsequent balloting, and petitioner's representatives were present while the vote was taken on board
the remaining six vessels. The National Maritime Union
obtained a clear majority of all the votes cast. Because
of the exclusion of its representative from the voting on
the S. S. City of Houston, petitioner objected to the certification of the N. M. U. as the exclusive bargaining representative of the employees in the unit. On January 26,
1938, the Board rejected petitioner's contention, and
issued a certification order. 4 N. L. R. B. 1140.
Six months later, on July 26, the N. M. U. filed charges
against petitioner, which it amended on November 22.
On November 23, the Board issued a complaint in which it
accused petitioner of violations of §§ 8 (1), (3) apd (5) of
the National Labor Relations Act. U. S. C., Title 29,
§ 158 (1), (3), (5). The allegations of the complaint were
that the N. M. U. had been certified in January as exclusive bargaining representative; that petitioner had con-

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

33

Opinion of the Court.

sistently refused since that time to bargain with the
Union; that as a result of this refusal to bargain a strike
had occurred, on July 18, aboard petitioner's S.S. City of
Fort Worth, while docked at Houston, Texas; that upon
the City of Fort Worth's return to Philadelphia, on July
25, five members of the crew 1 were discharged because of
their membership and activity in the Union, and particularly because of their participation in the strike; and that
as a result of these discharges other members 2 of the crew
of the Fort Worth had gone on strike while the vessel was
at home dock in Philadelphia. In its answer to this complaint, petitioner generally denied these allegations and
chiefly contended: first, that it had been under no obligation to bargain with the N. M. U., because the Board's refusal to permit petitioner to be represented at the election
aboard the S.S. City of Houstonrendered the entire certification proceedings void; and second, that the discharge of
the five members of the City of Fort Worth was not an unfair labor practice, because it was based upon their misconduct in striking, on July 18, while under Shipping Articles, away from home port, and on board ship.
After the usual proceedings, on April 22, 1940, the Board
issued its findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order.
23 N. L. R. B. 26. Its findings, which must be set out in
some detail, follow:
After the election and the certification of the N. M. U. in
January, 1938, the Union made persistent efforts through
its representatives to arrange a bargaining conference with
officials of the petitioner. Every such attempt was frustrated by the latter, who refused even to answer the requests, until August. in that month, the Union was
notified that petitioner would not undertake to bargain
-Warren, Tracey, Pfuhl, Smith and Ferguson.
Crassavaz, Reeves, Lathan, Burns, Hughes, Neeley and Holt.

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

with it "until the validity of the Board's certification was
settled by the Board and the courts."
On July 17, while the City of Fort Worth was docked at
Houston, thirteen unlicensed members of the crew met in
a union hall. They decided to strike the next day, to
compel petitioner to recognize the Union and to issue to
the Union's shore delegates the passes without which they
could not board petitioner's vessels. At 8 o'clock the
following morning, the strike began. One of the men,
Tracey, failed to turn the steam "on deck" for use in loading the cargo. He was then asked by the first assistant
engineer why he had failed to do so, and answered that a
strike was on, explaining the strikers' demands. When
the first assistant engineer turned on, the steam himself,
Tracey persuaded Braun, the fireman, to leave his post.
And Ferguson, who came on duty just at that moment to
replace Braun as fireman, also refused to tend the fires.
The second assistant engineer then undertook to tend the
fires himself, and Tracey, Ferguson and Braun went to
the poop deck, where the rest of the strikers were sitting.
The poop deck is the usual meeting place of the crew when
not on duty.
From that time until evening the strikers sat quietly
by, engaging in no violence and not interfering with the
officers of the ship or the non-striking members of the
crew, who proceeded with the loading of the cargo. The
strikers did not "claim to hold the ship in defiance of the
right of possession of the owner."8 But when the captain
' The Board found that the strikers were at no time ordered to leave
the ship. It is true that three of the officers testified that they had
neither given nor heard any of the officers give such an order. But
despite a great reluctance to overturn, a finding on such a pure matter
of fact, we cannot square it with the affirmative and uncontradicted
testimony of Tracey, one of the strikers, that petitioner's agent in
Houston boarded the ship at least four times during the day, at least
once in the company of the Captain, ordered the strikers to leave the

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

35

Opinion of the Court.

ordered them to return to work, they refused. They continued to refuse after a deputy United-States Shipping
Commissioner came aboard and read to them that provision of their shipping articles in which they had promised "to be obedient to the lawful commands" of the
master. Late in the afternoon, although he had not been
authorized to do so, petitioner's attorney in Houston
promised the Union's attorney in that city that he would
meet with the latter during the following week to negotiate
an agreement and that he would recommend to petitioner
that passes be granted to shore delegates. As a result of
this promise, the strike was ended at about 7 p. m. and
the ship sailed on schedule at about 9 p. m.
The return voyage to Philadelphia was marked by no
further difficulty. However, during the course of it the
captain decided not to reship five of the strikers.' When
the ship reached port on July 25 and the men signed off the
shipping articles, these five were informed that they would,
not be reshipped. Most of them had been members of the
City of Fort Worth's crew continuously for a considerable
length of time.' It was the custom of petitioner to'have
the seamen sign new articles for the next voyage when,
signing off the old, but even when this was not done the
men considered themselves employed for the next voyage
unless notified to the contrary. Under these circumstances, the Board found that the five men in question had
actually been discharged and that their employment had
ship within the next half hour, and announced that he was going to

bring on anew crew (R. 140-141, 161-162).
'See note 1, supra.
"The Board's finding on this matter was that "Tracey had been employed continuously over a period of 16 months, Ferguson for a period
of 1 year, Pfuhl over a period of 8 months, Warren over a period of 6
weeks, and Smith over a period of 18 months. Each round-trip voyage
of the City of Fort Worth is scheduled to take about 25 days." (R.

27.)

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

not simply ended as of course when the shipping articles
expired. Seven' of the other men who had engaged in
the Houston strike immediately struck again in protest
against the discharge of their fellows. On the basis of this
evidence,ythe Board found that both the strike at Houston
on July 18 and the strike at Philadelphia on July 25 were
caused by petitioner's unfair labor practices. And it made
a specific finding with respect to each of the five men that
the discharge was based upon participation in the Hou-ton
strike. It concluded that petitioner had interfered with
its employees' right to organize and bargain collectively,
in violation of § 8 (1); that it had discriminated with
regard to tenure of employment, in violation of § 8 (3);
and that it had refused to bargain with the authorized
representative of its employees, in violation of §8 (5).
Consequently, it ordered petitioner to cease and desist:
(a) from discouraging membership in the N. M. U., or any
other labor organization, by discriminating in regard to
employment; (b) from refusing to bargain collectively
with the N. M. U.; and (c) from interfering with, restraining, or coercing its employees in any way in the exercise
of their right to prganize and bargain collectively. In addition, and "in order to effectuate the policies of the Act,"
the order included the following affirmative requirements:
(a) that petitioner bargain with the N. M. U.; (b) that'it
reinstate with back pay the five men discharged; (c) that,
upon application, it offer immediate reinstatement to the
July 25th. strikers; and (d) that it post notices of its intention to conform to this order.
Petitioner sought to have this order set aside by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The Circuit Court, however,
sitting en banc,'and with one judge dissenting, entered a
decree enforcing the order with a single minor modifica'See note 2, supra.

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

37

Opinion of the Court.

tion.7 120 F. 2d 505. We granted certiorari because of
the importance of the matters involved, and because of
an asserted conflict with decisions of this Court and of
other Circuit Courts of Appeals.
Petitioner's contentions in this Court are: (1).that the
refusal by the Board to permit. a company representative
aboard the S. S. City of Houston during the voting vitiated
the entire election and certification proceeding and absolved petitioner of any duty under the Act to bargain
with the N. M. U.; (2) that the employment of the seamen
involved automatically terminated when they signed off
the shipping articles in Philadelphia, so that they cannot
be said to have been "discharged"; and (3) that participation in the Houston strike by the discharged seamen was
misconduct of such a character that the Board f'nnot
order their reinstatement.
The first two of these arguments are without substance.
The Board enjoys a wide discretion in determining the
procedure necessary to insure the fair and free choice of
bargaining representatives by employees. Labor Boardv.
Waterman Steamship Corp., 309 U. S. 206, 226; Labor
Board v. Falk Corporation,308 U. S. 453,458. It is wholly
reasonable to remove any possibility of intimidation by
conducting the election in the absence of the employer's
representatives. With respect to whether the five men in
question were actually discharged upon the ship's return
to Philadelphia, petitioner concedes that the formal signing off of the shipping articles was not conclusive. The
tenure of their employment must be determined in the
ZThe Board's order permitted petitioner to deduct from the back
pay due any amounts that the , discharged men might have earned
during the period in question, but required it to reimburse any public
work relief agency for sums paid Io any of the men during that time.
The latter phase of the order was eliminated by the Circuit Court of
Appeals on the authority of Republic Steel Corp. v. Labor Bbard, 311
U. S. 7. The Board raises no objection to this modificatioh of its order.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

light of all the evidence concerning petitioner's employment customs and practices. Labor Board v. Waterman
Steamship Corp., 309 U. S. 206, 218. The argument here
therefore comes to this, that this record does not warrant
a finding that the tenure of employment survived the
termination of the shipping articles. An examination of
the record convinces us that the concurrent finding of the
.Board and the Circuit Court on this question should not
be disturbed.
The situation, then, is one in which an employer indulges in an unfair labor practice, a strike results, and
several men are discharged for participating in the strike.
If there were no more to the case, and the Board found
that it would serve to effectuate the policies of the Act to
reinstate the strikers, an order requiring reinstatement
would undoubtedly be enforceable. Labor Board v.
Stackpole Carbon Co., 105 F. 2d 167. But there is more to
this case. The strike was conducted by seamen on board
a vessel and away from home port. The question is
whether this circumstance renders it an abuse of discretion for the Board to order the reinstatement of the
strikers. We think that it does.
Ever since men have gone to sea, the relationship of
master to seaman has been entirely different from that
of employer to employee on land. The lives of passengers and crew, as well as the safety of ship and cargo,
are entrusted to the master's care. Every one and -every
thing depend on him. He must command and the crew
must obey. Authority cannot be divided. These are
actualities which the law has always recognized. On
the one hand, it has imposed numerous prohibitions
against conduct by seamen which destroys or impairs
this authority. We shall consider in a moment the nature and scope of the criminal sanctions imposed in case
of revolt and mutiny. "But it is worth noting here that
the form of the "shipping articles," which the master

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

39

Opinion of the Court.

and every member of the crew must sign prior to the
voyage, has been carefully prescribed by Congress, and
that these articles contain this promise: "And the said
crew agree . . . to be obedient -to the lawful commands
of the said master . . . and their superior officers in

everything relating to the vessel, and the stores and cargo
thereof, whether on board, in boats, or on shore . . ."
U. S. C., Title 46 §§ 564, 713. On the other hand, workers at sea have been the beneficiaries of extraordinary
legislative solicitude, undoubtedly prompted by the limits
upon their ability to help themselves. The statutes of
the United States contain elaborate requirements with
respect to such matters as their medicines, clothing, heat,
hours mrt watches, wages, and return transportation to
this country if destitute abroad. U. S. C., Title 46,
§§ 651-692, 1131. It is in this setting of fact and law
that we must test the validity of the Board's order. of
reinstatement.
Petitioner contends that the strike aboard the City of
Fort Worth at the dock in Houston was mutiny and
violated §§ 292 and 293 of the Criminal Code. Those
sections provide:
§ 292. Inciting revolt or mutiny on shipboard. "Whoever, being of'the crew of a vessel of the United States,
on the high seas, or on any other waters within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States,
endeavors to make a revolt or mutiny on board such
vessel, or combines, conspires, or confederates with any
other person on board to make such revolt or mutiny,
or solicits, incites, or stirs up any other of the crew to
disobey or resist the lawful orders of the master or other
officer-bf -uch-vessel,_ or to refuse or neglect their, proper
duty on board thereof, or to betray their proper trust,
or assembles with others in a tumultuous and mutinous
manner, or makes a'riot on board thereof, or unlawfully
confines the master or other commanding officer thereof,

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not
more than five years or both." U. S. C., Title 18, §483.
§ 293. Revolt or mutiny on shipboard.- "Whoever, being
of the crew of a yessel of the United States, on, the high
seas, or on any other waters within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the United States, unlawfully
*and with force, or by fraud,, or intimidation, usurps the
command of such vessel from the master or other lawful
-fficer in command thereof, or deprives him of authority
and command on board, or resists or prevents him in
the free and lawful exercise thereof, or transfers such
authority-and command to another not lawfully entitled
thereto, is guilty of a revolt and mutiny, and shall be
fined not more than $2,000 and imprisoned .not more
than ten years." U.S. C., Title 18, §484.
The Board's defense to this contention is two-fold. It
argues, first, that the conduct of the strikers did not violate
either of these sections; and, second, that, even if it did, the
violation does not bar their reinstatement.
First. We think that the strike aboard the City of Fort
Worth on July 18 was in violation of §§ 292 and 293. It
may hardly be disputed that each of the strikers resisted
the qaptain and other officers in the free and lawful exercise of their authority and command, within the meaning
of § 293, or that they combined and conspired to that end,
within the meaning of §292. Deliberately and persistently they defied direct commands to perform their duties
in making reidy for the departure from port. It is true
that they did not engage in violence or prevent the other
men and officers from proceeding with preparations for
the voyage.' But short of that, they did what they could
It should be noted, however, that according to the second assistant
engineer's testimony, when he told Tracey that he intended to put the
steam on deck himself, Tracey replied, "You had better not. You
will be sorry." No effort was. made to carry out this threat.
-

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

41

Opinion of the Court.

to prevent the ship from sailing. In the words of the
striker Tracey, had they not believed that their demands
had been satisfied, "we would still be sitting there." There
is no doubt that they undertook to impose their will upon
the captain and officers.
None of these facts is denied by the respondents or by
the Circuit Court.' Indeed it is admitted that, had the
strike occurred on the high seas, the participants would
have been guilty of mutiny. But a distinction is said to
lie between strikes at sea and at dock To determine the
validity of this distinction we turn first to the words of the
statute. They are plain enough: "Whoever, being of
the crew of a vessel of the United States, on the high seas,
or on any other waters within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdictionof the United States," etc. It has long beensettled that the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States includes all navigable waters within the
The water
country. The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 44V31
in the harbor of Houston is certainly navigable, and a boat
at dock there is obviously within the territorial limits of the
United States. The words of the statute alone, therefore,
do not warrant an exception in the case of a vessel situated
ag the City of Fort Worth was when the strike occurred.
Nor are we referred to the decision of any court in which
such an exception has been implied. Under the original
Mutiny Act of 1790,1Justice Story held without hesitation
that a refusal to work while a vessel was in an American
harbor was a violation of the statute."2 The Act of 1790
'The Board did not consider the question of whether the strike
amounted to mutiny. "On the jurisdiction 'of the United States over men and vessels in
foreign waters, see United States v. Flores,289 U. S. 137; UnitedStates
v. Roberts, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 16,173 (C. C. S. D. N. Y. 1843.)
"1 Stat. 112, §§ 8 and 12.
United States v. Hamilton, 26 Fed.. Cas. No. 15,291 (C. C. D.
Mass. 1818) (the report of this case is not altogether clear on whether

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

was supplanted in 1835 by a statute which, with only minor
changes, now appears as §§ 292 and 293 of the Criminal
Code, set out above." Since 1835, whenever the question
has arisen, the courts have held that a mutiny may occur
irra harbor, either foreign or domestic, as well as at sea."
It is true, however, that in none of these cases does it expressly appear that the vessel was tied to a dock, as was the
City of Fort Worth in this case. And in the Rees case,
the court specifically reserVed the question of whether the
Mutiny Act bars a strike on board a vessel so situated. 95
F. 2d 784, at 792.
It was therefore strictly accurate for the Circuit Court of
Appeals to observe that "the question of the right of seamen to strike under the circumstances of the case before us
is still an open one." On this assumption, however, it proceeded to conclude that the necessity for absolute authority in the master is so considerably diminished when the
ship is moored in a "safe" port that a strike in such circumstances should not be held to violate the Act. This theory
has been regarded with favor by a number of courts and
the ship was at anchor in Salem Bay or tied to a dock there, but the
former seems to have been the case); United States v. Gardner, 25
Fed. Cas. No. 15,188 (C. C. D. Mass. 1829) (this report also fails to
reveal the exact situation of the vessel in Boston harbor at the time
of the strike, but it is possible that it was moored to the dock since
Boston was its home port and it was "all ready for sea," and presumably the loading had just been completed).
4 Stat. 775, 776.
14United States v. Cassedy, 25 Fed. Cas. No. 14,745 (C. C. D. Mass.
1837); United States v. Lynch, 26 Fed. Cas. No. 15,648 (C. C. S. D.
N. Y. 1843); United States v. Roberts, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 16,173 (C. C.
S. D. N. Y. 1843); United States v. Staly, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 16,374
(C. C. D. R. I. 1846) (at anchor in the Providence River); United
States v. Nye, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 15,906 (C. C. D. Mass. 1855); Hamilton
v. United States, 268 F. 15; Rees v. United States, 95 F. 2d 784; United
States v. Albers, 115 F. 2d 833.

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

43

Opinion of the Court.

commentators 15 and is said to conform more closely to
changed conceptions with respect to the freedom of workers on land or sea to organize, to bargain, and to use economic weapons to enforce their demands.
The difficulty with the contention is that it ignores the
plain Congressional mandate that a rebellion by seamen
against their officers on board a vessel anywhere within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States
is to be punished as mutiny. If this mandate is to be
changed, it must be changed by Congress, and not by the
Courts. If further proof be needed of a Congressional
belief that the requirements of discipline during a voyage
do not vary with each change in circumstance, it may be
found in the shipping articles to which we have already
referred. For in those articles the members of the crew
are obliged to promise to obey lawful commands "whether
on board, in boats, or on shore." And before a seaman's
certificate is issued by the Bureau of Marine Inspection
and Navigation the applicant must take an oath to "....

carry out the the lawful orders of my superior officers on
shipboard." " The lower court expressed the opinion,
"Upon reason, however,

. .

. there is no sound basis for

depriving seamen of this right [to strike] when, as here,
their vessel is moored to the dock in a safe domestic port."
But the soundness or unsoundness of the reasoning is for
the determination of Congress., As recently as 1939, two
bills were introduced in the House of Representatives
See The Blake, 1 W. Rob. 73, 166 Eng. Rep. 500; Buddington v.
Smith, 13 Conn. 334; Sapiro and Frank, Mutiny at the Dock, 25 Cal.
L. Rev. 41; Rothschild, The Legal Implications of a Strike by Seamen,
45 Yale L. J. 1181; Decision, 38 Col. L. Rev. 1294. But see McLaughlin, Note, 18 Ore. L. Rev. 128; Note, Labor Disputes in the Merchant
Marine, 28 Va. L. Rev. 79.
"See current "Application for Seamen's Certificate," issued by
Shipping Section, Bureau of Marine Inspection and Navigation, Department of Commerce. And see also U. S. C., Title 46, § 672 (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

for the purpose of limiting the scope of §§ 292 and 293 to
vessels "under way on the high seas." H. R. 3427, 3428,
76th Congress, 1st Session. The United States Maritime
Commission communicated to the House Committee on
Merchant Marine and Fisheries its firm objection to the
measures, 17 and they were never enacted. When the legislative purpose is so plain, we cannot assume to do that

which Congress has refused to do.
' 1 Letter to the Committee dated March 27, 1939 and signed by the
Chairman of the Commission, Emory S. Land:
"Under date of February 1, 1939, you requested the views and recommendations of the Commission with respect to H. R. 3427 and H. R.
3428.
"The proposed bills would emasculate the present laws in respect of
revolt or mutiny on shipboard. No conduct by members of the crew
of a vessel of the United States would constitute a violation of the,
statutes unless the vessel were under way on the high seas and then
only if actual force as distinguished from the lesser degrees of revolt
or mutiny involving use of fraud or intimidation wer6 used against
the commanding officer. Moreover, the proposed amendments would
reduce the maximum penalties by seventy-five per cent.
"it is the Commission's considered opinion that there is no reason
which would justify the Congress in lessening the authority of the
masters on board vessels of the American merchant marine.
"The crimes of endeavoring to incite to revolt or mutiny, or actually
accomplisling revolt or mutiny, may be committed 'on the high seas,
or on any other waters within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
of the United States'. It is well settled that this includes all such
offenses committed on the vessels of the United States on navigable
waters, including the ports, rivers and harbors of foreign countries.
(United States v. Flores,289 U. S. 137.)
"Seamen who sign articles to become members of the crew of a vessel
of the United States enter into a relationship which, in the nature
of things, is different from that assumed by persons employed on land.
Both as 'wards of.the admiralty' under the.general maritime law and
by special acts of.'Congress applying only to them, seamen enjoy many

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

45

Opinion of the Court.

In any event, a sweeping requirement of obedience
throughout the course of a voyage is certainly not without
benefits not accorded to land workers. At the same time they must
assume certain correlative duties not aecessary to land occupations.
"In the Economic Survey of the American Merchant Marine, the
Commission said (p. 46):
"'The sea is no place for divided. authority. When a man puts foot
on the deck of a ship, he becomes part of a disciplined organism subject
to the navigation laws of the United States.'
"It has been contended that the mutiny statutes do not apply unless
the vessel is in actual danger and a fortiori there can be no mutiny in a
safe harbor. This contention, not having met with success in the courts
(Rees v. United States; Hamilton v. United States) is brought befor
the legislative branch of the Government in the form of the proposed.
amendments. The fact that a vessel may be in a safe harbor does not,
under existing law, and it is submitted, should not, give sanction to the
offenses covered by the mutiny statutes. It is apparent to all those
familiar with the sea that no vessel is safe unless she is, among other
things, manned by a competent crew which means, in short, a crew
alert to its duties and responsive at all times to the lawful commands
of the master. A crew which does not meet this test is not competent
and must, moreover, be lacking in that morale which is necessary to
the' safe preservation of the ship, her passengers and cargo. Because
of the human factor involved, it is difficult to see how the morale of
a crew which feels that it should be free to disobey the lawful commands of the master when the vessel is not 'under way on the high
seas', can be revived with automatic regularity when the ship weighs
anchor or crosses an imaginary line to the high seas.
"Certainly there need be no fear, on the part of members of an
orderly and competent crew, that they will run afoul of existing statutes
governing discipline on board vessels of the United States. As there
can be no escape from the necessities of such discipline, there should be
no diminution of the authority required to meet those necessities.
"The Commission is of the opinion that the proposed amendments,
if enacted, would be harmful to the development of the American
merchant marine and it is, accordingly, opposed to the measures.
"The Commission is advised by the Acting Director of the Bureau
of the Budget that there would be no objection to the submission of
this report to your Committee."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

basis in reason. The strategy of discipline is not simple.
The maintenance of authority hinges upon a delicate complex of human factors, and Congress may very sensibly
haye concluded that a master whose orders are subject
to the crew's veto in port cannot enforce them at sea.
Moreover, it is by no means clear that a ship moored to
a dock is "safe" if the crew refuses to tend it, as the strikers
did at Houston. At the very least, steam must be maintained to provide light and fire protection."8 The damage
to the Normandie.is grim enough proof that the hazard
of fire is ever present 19 It is not enough to say that, in
the case before us, the strikers did not prevent these precautions from being taken; only the efforts of others
averted the dangers to which they opened the door.
We conclude that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in
holding that the strike at Houston did not violate §§ 292
and 293.
Second. Assuming that the strike did violate these sections, the Board contends that the reinstatement provisions of its order were nevertheless valid. Section 10 (c)
of the National Labor Relations Act permits the Board
to require an employer who has committed an unfair
labor practice to take "such affirmative action, including
reinstatement of employees . . ., as will effectuate the
policies of the Act." This authorization is of considerable breadth, and the courts may not lightly disturb the
Board's choice of remedies. But it is also true that this
discretion has its limits, and we have already begun to
define them. Labor Board v. Fansteel Metallurgical
Corp., 306 U. S.,240; Republic Steel Corp. v. Labor
Board, 311,U. S. 7. A complete definitioi? of course was
not and could not have been attempted in- those cases.
Memorandum to Ship Operators dated December 10, 1941, Bureau of Marine Inspection, Department of Commerce.
" N. Y. Times, Feb. 10, 1942, p. 1, col. S.:

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

47

Opinion of the Court.

Nor will it be attempted here. It is sufficient for this
case to observe that the Board has not been commissioned
to effectuate the policies of the Labor Relations Act so
single-mindedly that it may wholly ignore other and
equally important Congressional objectives. Frequently
the entire scope of Congressional purpose calls for careful
accommodation of one statutory scheme to another, and
it is not too much to demand of an administrative body
that it undertake this accommodation without excessive
emphasis upon its immediate task.
This *as the kind of consideration for which the
present case called. To bolster its claim that it responded to this call, the Board relies upon vhat it asserts
to have been the "technical" nature of the violation of
§§ 292 and 293. Specifically, it points to the comparative
safety of the ship when moored to the dock, the absence
of violence, and the double character of the ship as the
strikers' place of employment and their home during the
course of the voyage. While we have no doubt that the
danger to the vessel was considerably less than it would
have been had the strike occurred at sea, we have already
indicated that it was certainly present and that considerations other than immediate danger to the ship require maintenance of discipline throughout the .voyage.
Likewise, the absence of violence was a fortunate feature
of the affair, but the flouting of the captain's authority
was nevertheless deliberate and complete. Finally, for
these strikers to remain aboard the ship was indeed an
act of very different significance than for strikers at aa
industrial plant to remain inside a factory. But in one
respect at least the comparison is unfavorable to the
strikers here. As a practical matter, the City of Fort
Worth was definitely wrested from the control of its
officers. In an industrial plant the employer is confronted only with the necessity of placing new-men at
the machines. But under the law petitioner was required

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

to furnish living quarters to any new crew whom it might
have hired for the return voyage to Philadelphia. This
meant the removal of the strikers from their quarters
as/well as their posts of duty. It is difficult to imagine
that they would have surrendered their. jobs and their
quarters without a struggle. They asserted their right
to occupy the quarters and to eat the food which the
master was required to furnish them as members of the
crew, and yet to refuse to work or to obey his orders. See
United States v. Albers, 115 F. 2d 833, at 836. In fact,
as we have noted, they intended, according to the witness Tracey, to "still be sitting there" if petitioner had
not capitulated to their demands.
We cannot ignore the fact that the strike was unlawful
from its very inception. It directly contravened the policy of Congress as expressed in § § 292 and 293, and it was
more than a "technical" violation of those provisions.
Consequently, and despite the initial unfair labor practice
which caused the strike, we hold that the reinstatement
provisions of the order exceeded the Board's authority to
make such requirements "as will effectuate the policies
of the Act." '0
It should be stressed that the view we have taken does
not prevent the redress of grievances under the Act. At
any time following the certification' of the N. M. U. in
January, 1938, the union and the Board could have secured
the assistance of the courts in forcing petitioner to bargain.
The importance of seeking such assistance promptly is
strikingly illustrated in this case.' Had the union and the
Cf. Penin2ular & Occidental S. S. Co. v. Labor Board, 98 F. 2d 411,
414.

We do not question the Board's finding that petitioner refused to
bargain with the N. M. U. after January 20, 1938.

But the findings

and the record indicate that the union was not markedly diligent. The
Board found that one request for a conference was made by a union
representative at Houston "shortly after the certification." "In late

SOUTHEPN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.'
31

49

REED, J., dissenting.

Board done so, the unfortunate occurrence at Houston
might have been averted. And what is more, nothing
that we have said would prevent the union from striking,
picketing or resorting to any other means of self-help, so
long as the time and place it chooses do not come within
the express prohibition of Congress.
The case is remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals
with instructions to limit its decree of enforcement to
those provisions of the Board's order requiring petitioner
to, bargain with the N. M. U. and to post notices to that
effect, but to eliminate the other provisions of the order.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED, dissenting:
To support its judgment of reversal this Court relies
upon the employees' violation of §§ 292 and 293 of the
Criminal Code as justification for the Steamship Company's discharge of its seamen. If the seamen were discharged not for labor activity but because of the commission of serious crime, Labor Board v. Fansteelt Corp., 306
U. S. 240, would be authority for the Court's holding. It
was there decided that § 2 (3) of the Labor Act did not.
preserve a striker's eligibility for reinstatement by the
Board under § 10 (c), if the striker was discharged for
reasons other than "union activity or agitation for collective bargaining," e. g., criminal acts. 306 U. S. at 255.
The Court recognizes that where "an employer indulges
in an unfair labor practice; a strike results, and several
men are discharged for participating in the strike," and
nothing more appears, the Labor Board may properly reinJanuary or early February," the union's business agent in Philadelphia
made a similar request. He renewed it "about the middle of February." "During the next month" he made two attempts to repeat
his request by telephone. From that time until August 18, a month
after the strike at Houston, he made only one other attempt, the date
of which he Was unible to fix.

-

. OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
RE , J., dissenting.

state the strikers.

316 U. S.

It concludes, however, that where the

strike provoked by the unfair practices is itself unlawful,
the Board, regardless of the circumstances, loses its power
topeinstate after discharge. This position, we think, unddily expands judicial review of the Board's discretionary
power of reinstatement under § 10 (c) and is not supported
by the Fansteel decision.
This Court recognized in the Fansteel case that the
Board had discretion over reinstatement. 306 U. S. 258.
It was thought that, however wide that discretion might
be, "its limits were transcended" in that case. The ninetyfive men in Fansteel were discharged "for the seizure and
retention of the buildings." 306 U. S. 252. But those
men held the buildings from February 17 until February
26.. They disobeyed a court injunction order to surrender
the factory, and successfully resisted by force the sheriff's
efforts to enforce it. Only on his second attempt, with an
increased number of deputies, did the sheriff accomplish
their eviction and arrest. 306 U. S. 248-49.
Nothing approaching such disorder occurred here. The
seamen's conduct did not affect the safety of the vessel.
The only evidence of violation of the statutes is that the
orders to load were ignored. We may assume, for this dissent, that this resulted in a violation of the criminal statutes. The Board found that the respondent refused to
bargain collectively with the Union, that primarily this
precipitated the strike, and that the respondent was not
warranted in discharging any employee solely because of
the strike. It further found that the strikers did not
hold the ship in defiance of the owner nor did they trespass. The Board found in each instance that the discharges were not for disobeying orders but for striking, for
peacefully, albeit unlawfully, resorting to self-help in retaliation against denial of their rights.1 On the basis of
"The evidence is plain that both Tracey and Ferguson were discharged because of the leading parts they played in the strike. Chief

SOUTHERN S. S. CO. v. LABOR BOARD.
31

REED,

51

J., dissenting.

these findings, supported by substantial evidence, the
Board exercised its discretion to reinstate these men.
We think that, under these circumstances, it acted within its authority. We can see no justification for an iron
rule that a discharge of a striker by his employer for some
particular, unlawful conduct in furtherance of a strike is
sufficient to bar his reinstatement as a matter of law.
Fansteel teaches that there are extremes of conduct which
leave no discretion to the Board. We think that the acts
here fall on the other side of the line and that the Circuit
Court of Appeals properly so determined.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
JUSTICE MURPHY

and MR.

concur in this dissent.

Engineer Norton testified that he did not recommend Ferguson's discharge merely because he had disobeyed orders. 'I would have overlooked that had he taken the fires until we got straightened out.' Captain Rudan testified that he discharged both these men upon Norton's
complaint that 'they had been on watch at the time of the commencement of this what I consider disobedience, and if they had gone on
watch at the time, that the rest of the men probably would have
followed.

.

"

"Captain Rudan's testimony makes it abundantly clear that the
motivating factor in the respondent's decision to discharge Pfuhl was
his participation in the strike....
"We entertain no doubt that an employee's intoxication provides
ample reason for his discharge. We believe, however, that the respondent did not discharge Warren for this reason, but rather that
it seized upon his drinking proclivities to rid itself of an active union
officer.

.

"On cross-examination Sherry admitted that Smith was discharged
because of his participation in the strike ....

