KIRSCHBAUM CO. v. WALLING.
Counsel for Parties.

A. B. KIRSCHBAUM CO. v. WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE & HOUR DIVISION, U. S.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUITICOURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 910. Argued April 28, 29, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
1. The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 held applicable to employees
engaged in the maintenance and operation of a building whose
tenants are engaged principally in the production of goods for.
interstate commerce. P. 524.
2. Such employees 'are engaged in an "occupation necessary to the
production" of goods in interstate commerce, within the meaning
of § 3 (j) of the Act. P. 524.
3. The employees here involved can not be regarded as engaged in
"service establishments" within the exemption of § 13 (a) (2) of
the Act. P. 526.
124 F. 2d 567 and 125 F. 2d 278, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

315 U. S. 792, to review, in No. 910, the af-

firmance of a decree enjoining the petitioners from an
alleged violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 38 F.
Supp. 204; and, in No. 924, the reversal of a decree denying
such an injunction, 38 F. Supp. 207.
Mr. William Clarke Mason, with 'whom Mr. Frederick
H. Knight was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 910.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt,with whom Messrs. Kenneth
C. Newman, Henry Clifton, Jr., and Robert R. Bruce were
on the brief, for petitioners in.No. 924.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Messrs. Richard H.
Demuth, Warner W. Gardner, Irving J, Levy, Mortimer
*Together with No. 924, Arsenal Building Corp. et al. v. Walling, Administratorof the Wage & Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor,
on writ of certiorari, 315 U. S. 792, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit.-Argued April 29, 1942.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

B. Wolf, and Norman S. Altman were on the briefs, for
respondent. Mr. Abner Brodie was also on the brief for
respondent in No. 910.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTEm delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, and Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,312 U. S. 126, the constitutionality of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 52 Stat.
1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq., was sustained. In the cases

now before us we are required to consider the scope of the
Act in relation to a particular phase of industrial activity.
Specifically, the problem is this: Under § 6 of the Act
an employer must pay prescribed minimum wages "to
each of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in
the production of goods for commerce," and under § 7
overtime compensation must be given "any of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production
of goods for commerce." Section 3 (j) provides that "for
the purposes of this Act an employee shall be deemed to
have been engaged in the production of goods if such employee was employed . . . in any process or occupation

necessary to the production thereof, in any State." The
employees here are engaged in the operation and maintenance of a loft building in which large quantities of
goods for interstate commerce are produced. Does the
Fair Labor Standards Act extend to such enployees?
The facts in the two cases differ only in minor detail.
In No. 910, the petitioner owns and operates a six-story
loft building in Philadelphia. The tenants are, for the
most part manufacturers of men's and boys' clothing. In
No. 924, the petitioners own and operate a twenty-two
story building located in the heart of the New York City
clothing manufacturing district. Practically all of the

KIRSCHBAUM CO. v. WALLING.
517

519

Opinion of the Court.

tenants manufacture or buy and sell ladies' garments..
Concededly, in both cases the tenants of the buildings are
principally engaged in the production of goods for interstate commerce. In No. 910, the petitioner employs an,
engineer, three firemen, three elevator operators, 'two
watchmen, a porter, a carpenter, and a carpenter's helper.
In No. 924, the controversy involves two firemen, an electrician, fourteen elevator operators, two 'watchmen, and
six porters. These employees perform the customary
duties of persons charged with the effective maintenance
of a loft building. The engineer and the firemen produce
heat, hot water, and steam necessary to the manufacturing operations. They keep elevators, radiators, and fire
sprinkler systems in repair. The electrician maintains
the system which furnishes the tenants with light nd
power. The elevator operators run both the freight
elevators which start and finish the interstate journeys
of goods going from and coming to the tenants, and the
passenger elevators which carry employees, customers,.
salesmen, and visitors. The watchmen protect the buildings from fire and theft. The carpenters repair the halls
and stairways and other parts of the buildings commonly
used by the tenants. The porters keep the buildings
clean and habitable.
Deeming these employees within the Act because of
their relationship to the activities of the tenants, the Administrator brought suits to enjoin the petitioners from
violating the Act by paying wages at lower rates than
those fixed by the Act. In No. 910, the District Court
granted an injunction, 38 F. Supp. 204, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circhit affirmed. 124 F.
2d 567. In No. 924, the District Court denied an injunction, 38 F. Supp. 207, but the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit reversed. 125 F. 2d 278. Despite

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

this concurrence of views of the two Circuit Courts of
Appeals,' we brought the cases, here because of the important questions presented as to the- scope of the Fair
Labor Standa. is Act. 315 U. S. 792.
To search for a dependable touchstone by which to determine whether employees are "engaged in commerce or
in the production of goods for commerce" is as rewarding
as an attempt to square the circle. The judicial task in
marking out the extent to which Congress has exercised
its constitutional power ovet commerce is not that of devising an abstract formula. Perhaps in no domain of public law are general propositions less helpful and indeed
more mischievous than where boundaries must be drawn,
unJ'er a federal enactment, between what it has taken
ov4 for administration by the central Government and
what it has left to the States. To a considerable extent the
task is one of accommodation as between assertions of new
federal authority and historic functions of the individual
States. The expansion of our industrial economy has
inevitably been reflected in the extension of federal authority over economic enterprise and its absorption of
authority previously possessed by the States. Federal
legislation of this character cannot therefore be construed
without regard to the implications of our dual system of
government.
The body of Congressional enactments regulatiog commerce reveals a process of legislation which is Strikingly
-empiric. The degree of accommodation mad6 by Congress -rom time to time in the relations between federal
and state governments has varied with the subject mat'Compare Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co. v. Hall, 124 F. 2d 42;
Killingbeck v. Garment Center Capitol, Inc., 259 App. Div. (N. Y.)
691, 20 N. Y. S. 2d 521; Robinson v._Massachusetts Mut. Life Ins. Co.,
458 S. W. 2d 441 (Tenn.); Cecil v. Gradison, 40-N. E. 2d 958 (Ohio
App.); Pedersenv. FitzgeraldConstructionCo., 262 App. Div. (N. Y.)
,465, 30 N. Y. S. 2d 989.

KIRSCHBAUM CO. v. WALLING.
517

Opinion of the Court.

ter of the legislation, the history behind the particular
field of regulation, the specific terms in which the new
regulatory legislation has been cast, and the procedures
established for its administration. See, e.g., VirginianRy.
Co. v. Federation,300 U. S. 515. Thus, while a phase of
industrial enterprise may be subject to control under the
National Labor Relations Act, a different phase of the
same enterprise may not come within the "commerce"
protected by the Sherman Law. Compare, for example,
United Leather Workers v. Herkert, 265 U. S. 457, and
Levering & GarriguesCo. v. Morrin, 289 U. S. 103, with
Labor Board v. Friedman-HarryMarks Clothing Co., 301
U. S. 58, and Labor Boardv. Fainblatt,306 U. S. 601. Similarly, enterprises subject to federal industrial regulation
may nevertheless be taxed by the States without putting
an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Compare Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, and
Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, with Sunshine Coal
Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381.
We cannot, therefore, indulge in the loose assumption.
that, when Cofigress adopts a new scheme for federal industrial regulation, it thereby deals with all situations
failing within the general mischief which gave rise to the
legislation. Such an assumption might be .valid where
remedy of the mischief is the concern of only a single
unitary government. It cannot be accepted where the
practicalities of federalism--or, more precisely, the underlying assumptions of our dual form of government and the
consequent presuppositions of legislative draftsmanship
which are expressive of our history and habits--cut across
what might otherwise be the implied range of the legislation. Congress may choose, as it has chosen frequently
in -thepast, to regulate only part of what it constitutionally
can regulate, leaving to the States activities which, if isolated, are only local. One need refer only to the history of
Congressional control over the rates of intrastate carriers

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

which affect interstate commerce, 2 and the amendment of
August 11, 1939, to the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
extending the scope of that Act to employees who "shall,
in any way directly or closely and substantially, affect"
interstate commerce, 53 Stat. 1404. Compare Federal
Trade Commission v. Bunte Bros., 312 U. S. 349. The his-

tory of Congressional legislation regulating not only interstate commerce as such but also activities intertwined with
it, justifies the generalization that, when the Federal
Government takes over such local radiations in the vast
network of our national economic enterprise and thereby
radically readjusts the balance of state and national authority, those charged with the duty of legislating are
reasonably explicit and do not entrust its attainment to
that retrospective expansion of meaning which properly
deserves the stigma of judicial legislation.
The Administrator does not contend that the employees
in the cases before us are within the Act because Congress
could have placed them there. The history of the legislation leaves no doubt that Congress chose not to enter areas
which it might have occupied. As passed by the House,
the bill applied to employers "engaged in commerce in any
industry affecting commerce." See H. Rep. No. 2182, 75th
Cong., 3rd Sess., p. 2; 83 Cong. Rec. 7749-50. But the bill
recommended by the conference applied only to employees
"engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for
commerce." H. Rep. No. 2738, 75th Cong., 3rd Sess., pp.
29-30; 83 Cong. Rec. 9158, 9266-67. Moreover, in one of
'For the gradual development of this extension of federal authority,
see Shepardv. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 184 F. 765, reversed sub nom.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co.
v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, as applied in Illinois Central R. Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm'n, 245 U. S. 493, and as confirmed by § 416 of the
Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 456, 484, and as extended by
§ 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n
v. Chicago,B. & Q.R. Co., 257 U. S. 563.

KIRSCHBAUM CO. v. WALLING.
517

Opinion of the Court.

its intermediate stages, the measure incorporated the
Shreveport doctrine, Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. V.
United States, supra, in that it was specifically made applicable to intrastate production which competed with
goods produced in another State. S. 2475, 75th Cong. 3rd
Sess., as recommitted December 17, 1937, § 8(a). But, as
reported by the House Committee on Labor, this provision
was deleted. S. 2475, supra, as reported April 21, 1938; see
H. Rep. 2182, supra.
Since the scope of the Act is not coextensive with the
limits of the power of Congress over commerce, the 4uestion remains whether these employees fall within the
statutory definition of employees "engaged in commerce
or in the production of goods for commerce," construed as
the provision must be in the context of the history of federal absorption of governmental authority over industrial
enterprise. In this task of construction, we are without
the aid afforded by a preliminary administrative process
for determining whether the particular situation is within
the regulated area. Unlike the Interstate Commerce Act
and the National Labor Relations Act and other legislation, the Fair Labor Standards Act puts upon the courts
the independent responsibility of applying ad hoc the
general terms of the statute to an infinite variety of complicated industrial situations. Our problem is, of course,
one of drawing lines. But it is not at all a problem in mensuration. There are no fixed points, though lines are to be
drawn. The real question is howthe lines are to be drawn
-what are the relevant considerations in placing the line
here rather than there. To that end we have tried to state
with candor the larger considerations of national policy,
legislative history, and administrative practicalities that
underlie the variations in the terms of Congressional commercial regulatory measures and which therefore should
govern their judicial construction.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

We start with the weighty opinions of the two Circuit
Courts of Appeals that the employees here are within the
Act because they were engaged in occupations "necessary
to the production" of goods for commerce by the tenants.
Without light and heat and power the tenants could not
engage, as they do, in the production of goods for interstate
commerce. The maintenance of a safe, habitable building
is indispensable to that activity. The normal and spontaneous meaning of the language by which Congress defined in § 3(j) the class of persons within the benefits of the
Act, to wit, employees engaged "in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on such goods, or in any process or occupation
necessary to the production thereof," encompasses these
employees, in view of their relation to the conceded production of goods for commerce by the tenants. The petitioners assert, however, that the building industry of
which they are part is purely local in nature and that the
Act does not apply where the employer is not himself engaged in an industry partaking of interstate commerce,.
But the provisions qf the Act expressly make its application dependent upon the character of the employees' activities. And, in any event, to the extent that his
employees are "engaged in commerce or in' the production of goods for commerce," the employer is himself so
engaged.' Nor can we find in the Act, as do the petitioners,
any requirement that employees must themselves participate in the physical process of the making of the goods
before they can be regarded as engaged in their production. Such .a construction erases the final clause of § 3(j)
which includes employees engaged "in any process or occu0The exact scope of the provisions of the Act dealing with the composition, authority, and procedure of advisory committees is not now before us. But, in any event, we do not find in them any limitation upon
the area of regulation outlined by §§ 6 and 7.

KIRSCHBAUM CO. v. WALLING.
517

Opinion of the CourtU.

pation necessary to the production" and thereby does not
limit the scope of the statute to the preceding clause which
deals with employees "in any other manner working on
such goods."
But the petitioners urge thatj -3 (j) cannot be construed literally, that Congress surely did not design the
Act to apply to every employee who happens to perform
services that are essential to the production of goods
for commerce. But because some employees may not be
within the Act even though their activities are in an Ultimate sense "necessary" to the production of goods for
commerce, it does not follow that no employees whose
activities are "necessary" are entitled to the benefits of
the Act. Section 3 (j) cannot thus be read out of the
Act. The lower court in No. 924 met the petitioners'.
argument by finding the Act applicable to these employees because their work was "in kind substantially
the same as it would be if the manufacturers employed
them directly." In the immediate situation, the answer
may be adequate; but as a guiding criterion it may prove
too much. "Necessary" is colored by the context not
only of the terms of this legislation but of its implications in the relation between state and national authority. We cannot, in construing the word "necessary," escape an inquiry into the relationship of the particular
employees to the production of goods for commerce. If
the work of the employees has only the most tenuous
relation to, and is not in any fitting sense "necessary"
to, the production, it is immaterial that their activitiesi
would-be substantially the same if the employees worked
directly for the producers of goods for commerce.
We agree, however, with the conclusion of the courts
below. In our judgment, the work of the employees in
these cases had such a close and immediate tie with the
process of production for commerce, and was there-

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

fore so much an essential part of it, that the employees
are to be regarded as engaged in an occupation "necessary to the production of goods for commerce." What
was said about a related problem is not inapposite here:
"Whatever terminology is used, the criterion is necessarily one of degree and must be so defined. This does
not satisfy those who seek for mathematical or rigid
formulas. But such formulas are not provided by the
great concepts of the Constitution such as 'interstate
commerce,' 'due process,' 'equal protection.' In maintaining the balance of the constitutional grants and
limitations, it is inevitable that we should define their
applications in the gradual process of inclusion, and exclusion. There is thus no point in the instant case in a
demand for the drawing of a mathematical line. And
what is reasonably clear in a particular application is not
to be overborne by the simple and familiar dialectic of
suggesting doubtful and extreme cases." Santa Cruz Co.
v. Labor Board, 303 U. S. 453, 467. "What is needed is
something of that common-sense accommodation of judgment to kaleidoscopic situations which. characterizes the
law in its treatment of problems of causation." Gully v.
First National Bank, 299 U. S. 109, 117.
A final objection to the decisions below need not detain us long. The petitioners' buildings cannot be regarded as "service establishments" within the exemption
of § 13 (a) (2). Selling space in a loft building is not the
equivalent of selling services to consumers,: and, in any
event, the "greater part" of the "servicing" done by the
petitioners here is not in intrastate' commerce, The suggestion that the Act, if applied to these employees, goes
beyond, the bounds of the commerce power is without
merit. Labor Board Cases, 301 U. S. 1; United States V.
Darby, supra; Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,supra.
In both cases the judgment is
Affirmed.

HELVERING v. CEMENT INVESTORS.
517

527

Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I dissent. I think the power of Congress does not
reach the purely local activities in question. If it did,
the commerce power alone would support regulation of
any local action, since it is conceivable that such activity,
however remotely, "affects" commerce or is "necessary"
to the production of goods for commerce.
But I am convinced that Congress never intended by
the statute to reach the employees of the petitioners.
Neither the words of the Act, nor its legislative history,
nor the purpose to be served, requires the application of
the statute in these cases.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. CEMENT INVESTORS, INC.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 644. Argued April 27, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
A plan for the reorganization of a corporation and its wholly-owned
subsidiary in a proceeding under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, provided for the creation of a new company which would assume the
obligations of the bonds of the parent company and would issue
income bonds and common stock in exchange for the first mortgage bonds of the subsidiary company, the latter having been
guaranteed as to principal and interest by the parent company.
Stockholders of the debtor companies were to receive in exchange
for their stock only warrants for the purchase of shares of the new
company. The plan was confirmed by the bankruptcy court and
was consummated by a conveyance of the assets of the old companies to the new by the debtor companies, the bankruptcy trustee,
and the trustee under the indenture securing the bonds of the sub-

*Together with No. 645, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. James Q. Newton Trust, and No. 646, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Newton, also on writs of certiorari, 315
U. S. 825; to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.

