556

5OCTOBER

TERM, 1941.

Counsel for Parties.

CHRYSLER CORPORATION ET
STATES.

316 U. S.
AL.

v. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 1036.

Argued May 1, 4, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.

A corporation, sued by the Government under the Anti-Trust Law,
consented to a restraining decree which contained an express condition that the defendant would be freed from a provision forbidding
financial dealings with any finance company if, on or before a future
day named, no final decree imposing a similar restraint had been
entered in a like suit then pending in another District Court against
its competitor. The decree expressly reserved in the court power
to modify its provisions. Held, that the power was not abused by
orderp postponing the time for compliance with the condition because
of delays in the other suit, since the basic purpose of the consent
decree was to have the ultimate rights of the parties determined
by the other litigation, and since the function of the time limitation
was to protect the defendant from being placed at a competitive disadvantage through undue delay of that litigation on the part of
the Government, whereas it did not appear that the time extension
had had that effect, and there was evidence to support a finding that
the other suit had been prosecuted diligently. P. 562.
Affirmed.
APPEAL froni an order of the District Court modifying a
decree which had been entered by consent in a prosecution
under the Anti-Trust Law.

'Mr:-Nicholas Kelley, with whom Messrs. William Stanley and William D. Donnelly were on the brief, for appel-

lants.
Mr. Albert' Holmes Baldridge argued the cause, and
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attoriey General
Arnold, and Mr. Charles H. Weston were on the brief,
for the-United States.

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

557

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE BYRNES delivered the opinion of the Court.
On May 27, 1938, an indictment was returned against
appellants (referred to hereafter as Chrysler) and Commercial Credit Company and certain subsidiaries of the
latter in the District Court for the Northern District of
Indiana. Two similar indictments were returned on the
same day, one against Ford Motor Company and certain
finance companies affiliated with it, and the other against
General Motors Corporation and General Motors Acceptance Corporation, its subsidiary. The gist of each of
these indictments was that the automobile manufacturer had combined and conspired with its affiliated
finance company or Companies to restrain trade and commerce in the wholesale and retail sale and financing of its
automobiles, in violation of the Sherman Act.'
During the ensuing months, Chrysler and Ford reached
an agreement with the Government that the indictments
against them would be quashed and consent decrees entered. Consequently, on November 7, 1938, bills of equity
were filed against Chrysler and Ford, praying for injunctions against the acts complained of. Answers were
filed,2 and on November 15, 1938, the consent decrees were
entered.
The lengthy decree against Chrysler need not be described in detail.' Paragraph 6 imposed numerous specific restraints upon discriminatory practices by Chrysler
in favor of Commercial Credit Company. Paragraph 7
imposed correlative restraints upon Commercial Credit
Company in its dealings with Chiysler. Paragraph 12A
'26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. ยง 1.
'Chrysler's answer included an allegation that it had completely
terminated its affiliation with Commercial Credit Company by February, 1938.
IThe consent decree against Ford is substantially the same.

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

contained alternative provisions depending upon the outcome of the 'then still pending criminal proceedings
against General Motors. It provided: (1) that if those
proceedings should not result. in conviction, every provision of this consent decree against Chrysler should be
suspended until such time as a substantially identical decree should be obtained against General Motors; or (2)
that upon conviction of General Motors in the criminal
proceedings, or upon the entry of a decree in a civil action
against General Motors, or upon January 1, 1940--whichever should occur first-Chrysler should be free of all restraints imposed by paragraph 6, to the extent that substantially identical restraints had not been imposed upon
General Motors by the verdict of guilty, or by the civil
decree, and until such restraints were imposed.
The question before'us concerns paragraph 12, which
is separate and distinct from paragraph 12A. Paragraph
12 forbade Chrysler to "make any loan to or purchase the
securities of" Commercial Credit Company or any other
credit company. It then provided:
"It is an express condition of this decree that notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph of
this paragraph" 12 and of any other provisions of this decree, if an effective final order or decree not subject to
further review shall not have been entered on or before
January 1, 1941, requiring General Motors Corporation
permanently to divest itself of all ownership and control
of General Motors Acceptance Corporation and of all int erest therein, then and in that event, nothing in this decree shall preclude the manufacturer [Chrysler] from acquiring and retaining ownership of and/or control over or
interest in any finance company, or from dealing with such
finance company and with the dealers in the manner provided in this decree or in any order or modification or suspension thereof entered pirsuant to paragraph 12a.
Italics added.

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

Opinion of the Court.

Affiliation between Chrysler and Commercial Credit Compaiy, or another finance company, was thus singled out
for special treatment in paragraph 12. The various restraints imposed by paragraphs 6 and 7 were subject to
termination upon the conitingencies described in paragraph 12A, but the prohibition against affiliation was
subject to expiration upon the distinct and different contingency described in paragraph 12, viz., the entry of "an
effective final order or decree not subject to further
review . . . on or before January 1, 1941, requiring
General Motors Corporation permanently to divest itself
of all ownership and control of General Motors Acceptance Corporation and of all interest therein . . ."
Jurisdiction of the cause was retained by the District
Court, in paragraph 14, for the purpose of enabling the
parties to apply at any time "for such further orders and
directions as may be necessary or appropriate in relation
to the construction of or carrying out of this decree" or
"for the modification thereof."
The criminal proceedings against General Motors resulted in conviction of the corporation on November 17,
1939. General Motors appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. On May 1, 1941, that
Court affirmed the conviction and on July 2, 1941, denied
rehearing. 121 F. 2d 376. A petition for certiorari was
denied on October 13, 1941, 314 U. S. 618. A petition
for rehearing was denied on November 10, 1941, 314
U. S. 710.
Meantime, a civil suit for an injunction had been instituted by the Government against General Motors on October 4, 1940 in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. On October 26, 1940, the Government
agreed to an extension of time to answer to January 20,
1941. This extension of time rendered it impossible for
the Government to obtain "an effective final order or decree" against General Motors before January 1, 1941, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

required by paragraph 12 of the consent decree against
Chrysler. Accordingly, on December 17, 1940, the Government filed a motion in the District Court in Indiana
asking that paragraph 12 of the consent decree against
Chrysler be modified by substituting "January 1, 1942"
for "January 1, 1941." Chrysler opposed this motion, but
on December 21, 1940 an order was entered changing the
date as requested. Chrysler appealed to this Court from
the order of modification, but the appeal was dismissed on
December 8, 1941 for want of a quorum of Justices qualified to sit, 314 U. S. 583, and on January 5, 1942 rehearing
was denied, 314 U. S. 716.
Pursuant to additional stipulations between the Government and General Motors, the time to answer the
Government's complaint in the civil suit in the Illinois
District Court was successively extended to January 27,
1941, to May 1, 1941, to June 15, 1941, and to June 21,
1941: On the latter date, the Government filed an
amended complaint. By agreement, the time in which to
answer this amended complaint was extended to July 15,
1941. GeneralMotors then sought a further extension of
time to answer the amended complaint, urging that the
civil suit should be postponed pending a final determination of the criminal case and that it was about to petition
for a writ of certiorari in the criminal case. The Government refused to agree to an extension,* stating that any
further delay might prejudice the Government in connec-.
tion with its consent decree against Chrysler. The District Court nevertheless entered an order for an indefinite
extension of the time in which General Motors might answer the amended complaint. On December 1,-1941, the
Government moved the District Court to set a day certain'
by which General Motorswould be required to answer and
-otherwise plead. In the motion and in an accompanying
affidavit, the Government explained the connection be-

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

561

Opinion of the Court.

tween the consent decree against Chrysler and the civil
suit against General Motors. After a hearing on the motion, the District Court set January 15, 1942, as the date by
which General Motors would be required to answer.
The date fixed by the last mentioned order of the District Court in Illinois in the suit against General Motors
created further difficulty with respect to the consent decree in the Chrysler case in the District Court of Indiana.
It had now become impossible for the Government to obtain "an effective final order or decree" against General
Motors, within the meaning of paragraph 12 of the Chr sler consent decree, prior to January 1, 1942. On Decerober
22, 1941, therefore, the Government moved the DiStrict.
Court in Indiana for a second modification of paragraph.
12 of the Chrysler consent decree by substituting "January 1, 1943" for "January 1, 1942." In its answer Chrysler
.opposed the modification. The Government offered in
evidence a transcript of the proceedings in the civil suit
against General Motors. Hearing on the motion was continued to February 16, 1942. On that date no qdditional
evidence was introduced, but argument of counsel was
heard.
The District Court thereupon made the following findings of fact: (a) that the District Court had specifically
retained jurisdiction to modify the consent decree; (b).
that paragraph 12 was "framed upon the basis that the
ultimate rights of the parties thereunder should be -determined by the Government's civil antitrust proceedings
against General Motors Corporation and affiliated companies"; (c) that "time was not of the essence with respect
to lapse of the bar against affiliation [between Chrysler
and Commercial Credit Company or any other finance
company]"; (d) "that to safeguard defendants against undue delay in such proceedings the decree provided for
suspension of certain of its prohibitions in the event con-

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

victions were not obtained in the criminal case against
General Motors Corporation by January 1, 1940"; (e)
"that the decree provided for a termination of the bar
against affiliation, if the civil proceedings against General
Motors Corporation were not successfully concluded by
a court of last resort by January 1, 1941"; (f) that a conviction had been obtained in the criminal proceedings
against General Motors on November 17, 1939; (g) "that
the Government has proceeded diligently and expeditiously in its suit to divorce General Motors Acceptance
Corporation from General Motors Corporation"; and (h)
"that further extension of the bar against affiliation will
not impose a serious burden upon defendants." It then
concluded as a matter of law "that the purpose and intent
of the decree will be carried out if Chrysler is given the
opportunity at any future time to propose a plan for the
acquisition of a finance company, and to make a showing
that such plan is necessary to prevent Chrysler Corporation from being put at a competitive disadvantage during the pendency of complainant's civil litigation against
General Motors Corporation, et al."
Upon the basis of these findings and conclusions, the
District Court entered an order modifying paragraph 12
by changing the date to January 1, 1943, in compliance
with the Government's motion. The case is before us on
direct appeal from this order. 15 U. S. C. ยง 29, 28 U. S. C.
ยง 345.
It is clear that under paragraph 14 of the original de-'
cree the District Court had jurisdiction to modify it. The
question is whether the change in date in paragraph 12
amounted to an abuse of this power to'modify. We think
that the test to be applied in answering this question is
whether the change served to effectuate or to thwart the
basic purpose of the original consent decree. United
States v. Swift & Co., 286 U. S. 106.

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

Opinion of the Court.

The text of the decree itself plainly reveals the nature
of that purpose. It was, as stated in the District Court's
findings, "that the ultimate rights of the parties thereunder should be determined by the Government's civil
antitrust proceedings against General Motors Corporation and affiliated companies." The time limitation was
inserted to protect Chrysler from being placed at a competitive disadvantage in the event that the Government
unduly delayed the initiation and prosecution of the General Motors injunctive proceedings. The District Court
found "that the Government has proceeded diligently and
expeditiously in its suit to divorce General Motors Acceptance Corporation from General Motors Corporation."
There is room for argument that this statement is markedly generous to the Government, inasmuch as the civil
suit against General Motors was not instituted until almost two years after the entry of the consent decree and
only three months prior to the limiting date in paragraph
12. But the finding is supported by several circumstances:
the extended course of the appeals in the criminal proceedings against General Motors, for which the Government was not responsible; the obvious bearing of the results in that litigation upon the method of handling the
civil litigation with General Motors; and the ruling of
the District Court in Illinois in July, 1941, in the General
Motors civil action, indefinitely extending the time to
answer despite the Government's objection, presumably
to await the final disposition of the criminal case. In view
of these considerations, the finding of the court below was
not unreasonable, and we do not think that the Government lost its right to seek a modification of the decree.
The controlling factor thus becomes whether the extension of the ban on affiliation contained in paragraph 12
places Chrysler at a competitive disadvantage. Chrysler
made no showing to that effect in the District Court. The

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

order of December 21, 1941 set the hearing for February
16, 1942, with the explanation that Chrysler had "requested
a continuance in order to produce further evidence." But
on February 16 no evidence was forthcoming. The record
therefore reveals that Chrysler terminated its affiliation
with Commercial Credit in 1938 before the consent decree
was entered, and does not reveal that it has since asserted
any desire or intention to affiliate with Commercial Credit
or with any other finance company. Moreover, we cannot be blind to the fact that the complete cessation of the
manufacture of new automobiles and light trucks has drastically minimized the significance of the competitive factor.' Consequently. there is no-warrant for disturbing the
finding of the court below "that further extension of the
bar against affiliation will not impose a serious burden upon defendants." If Chrysler desires to affiliate with a
finance company and feels that its inability to do so places
it at a disadvantage with its competitors, it should make
such a showing to the District Court. That court expressly
declared that Chrysler'was free at any time to propose a
plan for affiliation and to demonstrate that such a plan is
necessary to avoid unfairness.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR.
JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MR. JUSTiCE FRANKFURTER, dissenting:
In the spring of 1938 the Government instituted criminal
proceedings against the three leading automobile. manufacturers, Chrysler, Ford, and'General Motors. For pres4

See the order of January 21, 1942, of the Director of Priorities of the
Office of Production Management. F. R. Does. 41-636, 42-637, 7

F. R. 473.

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

W6

FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

ent purposes, Ford may be disregarded. Each indictment
charged violation of the Sherman Law arising out of the
manufacturer's affiliation with a finance company and its
employment of certain trade practices. Chrysler was prepared to consent to a decree prohibiting it from affiliation
with any finance company, in addition to its acceptance
of restraints against alleged illegal trade practices, provided, however, that the Government succeeded in obtaining similar relief against General Motors. The problem before the negotiators of the consent decree was,
therefore, that of determining how long Chrysler should
remain subject to the restraints imposed by the decree
while General Motors, contesting the claims of the Government, refused to come to terms with it and put it to its
law. As the Government recognizes in its brief here,
Chrysler was "entitled to protection against undue delay
in the prosecution of the proceedings against General
Motors." With respect to the prohibition against affiliation, the problem was solved 'by providing in paragraph
12 that if the Government should not have obtained a
final decree against General Motors by January 1, 1941,
requiring General Motors to divest itself of all interest
in its affiliated finance company, the prohibition against
Chrysler. would cease. This was made an "express condition" notwithstanding any other provisions in the decree.1 Obviously, it was an essential feature of the consent
lThe full text of Paragraph 12 is as follows:
"The Respondent Finance Company shall not pay to any-automobile
manufacturing company and the Manufacturer shall not obtain from
any finance company any money or other thing of value as a bonus or
.commission on account of retail time sales paper acquired by the finance
company from dealers of the Manufacturer. The Manufacturer shall
not make any loan to or purchase the securities of Respondent Finance
Company or any other finance company, and if it shall pay any money
to Respondent Finance Company or any other finance company with

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

I., dissenting.

316 U. S.

decree against Chrysler that the prohibition of affiliation
with the finance company should result in this great competitive disadvantage only long enough to enable the Government to press its claim against General Motors to successful conclusion with all reasonable speed. The parties
might have refrained from fixing any definite period, leaving the matter wholly for determination in the future and
by undefined standards of reasonableness. Instead, the
Government chose to specify with particularity the length
of the period-more than two years-in which Chrysler
would be required to bear competitive hardships resulting
the purpose or effect of inducing or enabling such finance company to
offer to the dealers of the Manufacturer a lower finance charge than it
would offer in the absence of such payment, it shall offer in writing to
make, and if such offer is accepted it shall make, payment upon substantially similar bases, terms and conditions to every other finance company offering such lower finance charge; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph contained shall be construed to prohibit the Manufacturer from acquiring notes, bonds, commercial paper, or other evidence of indebtedness of Respondent Finance Company or any other
finance company in the open market.
"It is an express condition of this decree that notwithstanding the
provisions of the preceding paragraph of this paragraph 12 and of any
other provisions of this decree, if an effective final order or decree not
subject to further review shall not have been entered on or before January 1, 1941, requiring General Motors Corporation permanently to divest itself of all ownership and control of General Motors Acceptance
Corporation and of all interest therein, then and in that event, nothing
in this decree shall preclude the Manufacturer from acquiring and retaining ownership of and/or control over or interest in any finance company, or from dealing with such finance company and with the dealers
in the manner provided in this decree or in any order of modification
or suspension thereof entered pursuant to paragraph 12a. The Court,
upon application of the respondents or any of them, will enter an order
or decree to that effect at the foot of this decree, and the right of any
respondent herein to make the application and to obtain such order or
decree is expressly conceded and granted."

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

from the lack of the same restraints upon General Motors.
Considering the scope and nature of the decree, the interests, both public and private, with which it was dealing, and its technical draftsmanship, there can be no doubt
that the precise limits of paragraph 12 were not casually
or carelessly defined. Of course, the District Court had
the power to modify the consent decree in order to effectuate its basic purposes. The fact that the decree embodied
the agreement of the parties no more limited the power
of the court than if it had been a contested decree. Swift
& Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 311; United States v.
Swift & Co., 286 U. S. 106, 114; United States v. International HarvesterCo., 274 U. S. 693. The decree itself contains an express recognition of the court's power of modification, but such a reservation plainly added nothing to the
*decree and, subtracted nothing from the significance of
terms made an express condition of the imposed restraint.
The burden was still, as it always is, on the moving partyand here it was the Government-to show that circumstances justified a change in such terms. In fact, on De"cember 17, 1940, within three weeks of the expiration of
the restraint against Chrysler, the Government sought for
an extension of that restraint for another year upon the
grounds that the time "was by mistake of the parties underestimated." The extension was opposed, but granted by
the District Court. An appeal was brought here but was
dismissed on December 8, 1941, "for want of a quorum of
Justices qualified to sit." Chrysler Corporationv. United
States, 314 U. S. 583. A week later, the present proceedings were begun for a further extension. The effect of the
modification sought by the Government and granted by
the court below was to extend until January 1, 1943, the
restrictions upon Chrysler's freedom of action which were
not imposed upon its principal rival.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J.., dissenting.

316 U. S.

In order to justify a modification having such drastic
business consequences, it was surely incumbent upon the
Government to show that it had proceeded with all deliberate speed against General Motors. The record reveals
that no such showing was made. The history of the litigation against General Motors proves that it could not
have been made. Although the consent decree against
Chrysler Was entered on November 15, 1938, the trial in
the criminal action against General Motors was not begun
until October 9, 1939. This trial resulted in a conviction
against General Motors on November 17, 1939. Since the
trial judge did not instruct the jury that affiliation as such
was unlawful, and indeed the contrary, the criminal proceeding could no longer be claimed to control the validity
of the affiliation prohibited by paragraph 12 of the Chrysler decree. Consequently, it is irrelevant that the criminal
proceedings against General Motors were not finally concluded until this Court denied certiorari on October 13,
1941. But, in any event, the contingencies of review of a
criminal conviction do not justify holding in abeyance an
equity suit, even though it concerns a related issue, when
the determination of that equity suit within a time certain,
to wit, January 1, 1941, explicitly defined the duration of
the restraint imposed upon Chrysler. The appeal of the
\criminal conviction against General Motors was at last
disposed of in the Circuit Court of Appeals on May 1, 1941.
121 F. 2d 376. But even then the Government did nothing
to press the equity suit,, indeed it promoted its7 further
delay.
It was not until October 4, 1940, that the Government
brought a civil suit in equity against General Motors.
This was almost two years after the entry of the decree
against Chrysler, and, perhaps more important, less than
three months before the date upon which the bar against

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

Chrysler was to be lifted. Here again the record contains
nothing to explain this period of inaqtion, when, by the
express terms of the decree, the duty of action was laid
upon the Government and the result of such action was of
obvious business importance to the status of Chrysler
under its decree. Nor does the record show that the Government undertook to prevent any untoward delays in
the determination of the General Motors civil suit. On the
contrary, no less than six times did the Government agree
to extensions of the time within .which General Motors
should plead., On October 26, 1940, the Government acquiesced in an extension to January 20, 1941; on January
16, 1941, in an extension to January 27, 1941; on January
24, 1941, in an extension of more than three months, to
May 1, 1941; on April 21, 1941, in a further extension to
June 15, 1941; and on June 13, 1941, in an additional extension to June 21, 1941. On that date, the Government
filed an amended complaint, and on June 28, 1941, it agreed
to a further extension to July 15, 1941. On the latter date,
General Motors requested the court that it be given a
further extension; the request recited the Government's
opposition to the motion because of its effect upon the
Chrysler decree. The court nevertheless granted General
Motors an indefinite extension. On November 29, 1941,
the Government for the first time moved that General
Motors be required to file an answer or other pleading. In
response to this motion, the court ordered that General
Motors file a pleading by January 15, 1942.
This is the background of fact in the light of which the
District Court was required to judge whether the Government was equitably entitled to impose upon Chrysler
for a further period the curtailmelt of its freedom of action embodied in the consent decree. Relevant to its determination, also, was the fact that paragraph 12 provided.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

only that, if the Government did not obtain a final order
of divorcement against General Motors by January 1,
1941, then nothing in the decree against Chrysler would
prohibit the latter from affiliating with a finance company.
Nothing in paragraph 12 gave, or even purported to give,
Chrysler any immunity from the antitrust laws after January 1, 1941. Therefore, if the decree were not modified,
it would not mean that the Government would be powerless to proceed against Chrysler if the latter resumed the
activities forbidden by the decree. The Government would
still be free to take any action it might have taken before
Chrysler consented to the decree against it.
A court of equity is not just an umpire between two
litigants. In a very special sense, the public interest is in
its keeping as the conscience of the law. The circumstance
that one of the parties is the Government does not in itself
mean that the interest which it asserts defines and comprehends the public interest which the court must vindicate. A modification of a decree requested by the Government is not ipso facto a modification warranted by considerations which control equity. Regard for the proper
administration of justice, which makes determinations depend upon proof and not upon unsupported assertions of
one of the litigants, is a vital aspect of the public interest.
The burden obviously rested upon the Government to show
good cause for disregarding an express provision in a carefully framed decree, and extending to twice its original
duration the period of restraint against Chrysler. So to
enlarge the burden of the decree without any such showing by the Government is a one-sided restriction of Chrysler's. freedom of action, at least of its right to prove that
the restricted action is innocent. Instead of exacting such
proof from the Government, the District Court cat upon
Chrysler the duty of showing that it would not be preju-

CHRYSLER CORPORATION v. U. S.
556

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

diced if the fetters remained after the period fixed by the
decree. He who seeks relief from equity has the burden
of showing that he is entitled to it. It is unfair to cast upon
Chrysler the burden of proving that it would not be harmed
if the Government got what it wanted. As'a practical
business matter, Chrysler 0is not standing on an abstract
right to devise means of financing its sales simply because
it is not ready today with arrangements for a financial
corporation, and the war precludes them. ' Such arrangements cannot be devised overnight. It may well take a
year to get them under way.
.Considering, on the one hand, the drastic economic disadvantage to which Chrysler is put, in being subjected to
the hazard of contempt proceedings if it takes any steps
toward preparing for affiliation in the future, and, on the
other hand, the failure of the Government to explain the
apparent lack of diligence in prosecuting the proceedings
against General Motors and to show that the modification
was necessary to achieve the purposes of the consent decree, I am bound to conclude that the order of the District
Court, unexplained by any opinion, was not within the
proper limits of its discretion.
MR. JUSTICE REED

joins in this dissent.

