MILCOR STEEL CO. v. FULLER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

MILCOR STEEL CO. v. GEORGE A. FULLER CO.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 720. Argued March 30, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.
1. It is the claims, not the specifications, that measure the grant of
a patent. P. 145.
2. A disclaimer under the Patent Law, R. S. § 4917, which attempts
to add new elements to a claim and thereby changes the character
of the claim, is invalid, even though in other respects it narrows
the claim. P. 147.
122 F. 2d 292, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 604, to review the affirmance of a
judgment dismissing a suit for infringement of a patent.

Mr. George L. Wilkinson, with whom Mr. Asher Blum
was on the brief; for petitioner.
Mr. Malcolm K. Buckley, with whom Mr. Conrad
Christel was on the brief, for respondents.
Mr. Truman Sunderland Safford filed a brief, as
amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit brought in the District Court for infringement of two claims of a patent issued to one Holdsworth
and assigned to the petitioner. One defense pleaded by
the respondents was that Holdsworth was not the original
inventor. When a patentee, "through inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptive intention . . . has claimed more than that of
which he was the original or first inventor . . . ," Rev.
Stat. § 4917, 35 U. S. C. § 65, preserves for him or his as-

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

signee "all that part which is truly and justly his own, provided the same is a material or substantial part of the thing
patented." The method prescribed for saving the patent
in part is "disclaimer of such parts of the thing patented"
as the patentee or his assignee "shall not choose to claim."
After the respondents answered, the petitioner filed disclaimers in the patent office with respect to the two claims
in suit, purporting to narrow their scope in accordance
with the statutory authorization. The defendants then
moved for summary judgment on the pleadings pursuant
to Rules 12 (c) and 56 (b) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure. Their grounds, among others, were that the
revised claims added new elements not recited in the original ones; and represented an effort to give the old patent
a new scope not previously contemplated and never passed
upon in the light of the prior art by the patent office. The
District Court found that the disclaimers did import new
elements not included in the original claims and held that
they rendered the claims invalid, relying upon our decision in Altoona Theatres v. Tri-ErgonCorp., 294 U. S. 477.
Accordingly, it entered summary judgment for the defendants. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 122 F.
2d 292.
As we read the opinion of the court below, it affirms
the proposition that, where a disclaimer attempts to add
a new element to a claim, the disclaimier is invalid even
though it may also make the revised claim narrower than
the original. We granted certiorari because of alleged
conflict with decisions on the question in other circuits.1
The patent in suit here is for a wall, to be used as a
partition between rooms or on the inner side of the walls
of the building itself. The necessary parts are a piece
' See e. g., Payne Furnace & Supply Co. v. Williams-Wallace Co., 117
F. 2d 823; CincinnatiRubber Mfg. Co. v. Stowe-Woodward, Inc., 111

F. 2d 239.

MILCOR STEEL CO. v. FULLER Co.
143

Opinion of the Court.

of metal to be fastened to the ceiling;. another to be
fastened to the floor; upstanding channel iron supports

running between the top and bottom members; metal
lathing to be fastened by wires to the skeleton wall in

order that plastering may be supported.
The specifications describe and drawings illustrate
(1) a top angle iron member with a perforated surface or
flange hanging downward so as to fit into slots at the
top of the upstanding irons; (2) recesses in the base member providing a snug fit for the bottom part of the up-

standing channel irons. The two claims in controversy
are printed in the margin.' As the courts below pointed
out, it is these claims* not the specifications, that afford
"6. A wall construction for a room having a floor and a ceiling,
said wall construction including a base member and a ceiling member,
said wall construction also including upstanding wall-supports whose
height is less than the maximum vertical distance between said base
member and said ceiling member, said upstanding wall supports being
located between said base member and said ceiling member, said wall
supports being vertically movable relative to said base member and
to said ceiling member when said wall supports are assembled with
said base member and said ceiling member, and means operative to
prevent any substantial tilting movement of said wall supports from
their predetermined upstanding position.
"7. A wall construction for a room having a floor and a ceiling, said
wall construction including a base member and a ceiling member, said
wall construction also including upstanding wall-supports whose height
is less than the maximum vertical distance between said base member
and said ceiling member, said upstanding wall supports being located
between said base member and said ceiling member, said wall supports
being vertically movable relative to said base member and to said ceiling member when said wall supports are assembled with said base
member and said ceiling member, said base member and said ceiling
member being shaped to provide means which are operative to prevent any substantialtilting of said wall supports from their predetermined upstanding position."
Italics have been added to mark those portions in which the two
clal- differ from each other.
461263-43-----10

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

the me9sure of the grant to the patentee.' "Out of all the
possible permutations of elements which can be made
from the specifications, he reserves for himself only those
contained in the claims." 122 F. 2d 292, 294. The foregoing features appearing in the specifications are not
set out in the claims themselves; the claims do not indicate in any way that these features were essential parts
of the combination for which the patent was issued. On
the contrary, Holdsworth asserted that his specifications
in general showed only a "preferred embodiment" of his
invention, and with respect to the ceiling member in particular, stated: "I do not wish to be limited to an angle
iron for completing the top of the metal construction."
The disclaimers, however, purported to make these two
features essential parts of the claimed combination. One
disclaimer substituted for part of one of the original general claims a description of a "ceiling member [which]
comprises a vertical depending perforated flange, one side
of which is overlapped by metal lathing"; and the other
disclaimer substituted for part of another original general
claim a description of a "base member . . . composed of
a longitudinal strip having recesses to receive the lower
ends of the webs of channel wall supports, the flanges
of the channel wall supports overlapping the base member
adjacent the recesses." Limiting ourselves, as we must,
to the original claims to determine the nature of the
combination covered by the patent when it was granted,
and comparing that combination with the one purportedly embodied by the claims after the disclaimer, we can
only conclude that the revised patent includes new elements which were not present in the original.
' Rev. Stat. § 4888, 35 U. S. C. § 33, requires that the applicant
for a patent "shall particularly point out and distinctly claim the
part, improvement, or combination which he claims as his invention
or discovery." See Paper Bag Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405, 419;
Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354, 360-361.

MILCOR STEEL CO. v. FULLER CO.
143

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner's argument is that the statute authorizes any disclaimer which actually narrows the claim, and
that its disclaimer would have the requisite narrowing
effect because it would restrict the claims to cover the
combination only when the features described in the disclaimers were present.
But in Altoona Theatres v. Tri-Ergon Corp., supra,
489-490, the test which the petitioner argues for here
was rejected. Although this Court recognized that an
effect of the disclaimer in controversy in the Altoona case
was "in one sense to narrow the claims," it concluded that
the disclaimer statute "does not permit the addition of
a new element to the combination previously claimed,
whereby the patent originally for one combination is
transformed into a new and different one for the new
combination."
The Holdsworth patent was for a structure composed
of a combination of familiar elements. If there was
novelty, it consisted in the combination. "A combination is always an entirety. In such cases, the patentee
cannot abandon a part and claim the rest, nor can he be
permitted to prove that a part is useless, and, therefore,
immaterial. He must stand by his claim as he has made
it. If more or less than the whole of his ingredients are
used by another, such party . . . has not used the invention or discovery patented. With the change of the
elements the identity of the product disappears." Schumacher v. Cornell, 96 U. S. 549, 554. This Court has
explicitly recognized that the disclaimer statute cannot
be invoked to justify such a change. Vance v. Campbell,
1 Black 427, 429. And here, as in the Altoona case, the
revised claims change the combination set out in the
original claims. The disclaimers do more than delete a
"distinct and separable matter . . . without mutilating
or changing what is left standing"; they change the character of the claimed invention and are therefore unau-

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

thorized by the disclaimer statute. Hailes v. Albany
Stove Co., 123 U. S. 582, 587.
If an alteration of one of the essential elements of a
claimed combination were permissible at all, it would be
under the reissue statute, Rev. Stat. § 4916, 35 U. S. C.
§ 64, which grants rights only from the date of reissue
and after consideration by the patent office. Altoona
Theatres v. Tri-Ergon Corp., supra, 491. To permit
such substantial alterations under the disclaimer statute,
which, where applicable, gives effect to the revised claims
from the date of the original issue without any consideration by the patent office, would be contrary to the policy
of the patent laws. In the words of Mr. Justice Bradley,
it would permit "a man ... by merely filing a paper

drawn up by his solicitor, [to] make to himself a new
patent." Hailes v. Albany Stove Co., supra, 587. Cf.
Brooks v. Fiske, 15 How. 212, 219. It would also retroactively create possibilities of innocent infringement
where no one would reasonably have suspected them to
exist.
I The courts below properly decided that the attempted
disclaimers here invalidated the claims in controversy.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Affirmed.

