COCHRAN v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

COCHRAN v. KANSAS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

No. 510.

Argued April 7, 8, 1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.

1. The conclusion of the Supreme Court of Kansas-that the record
of criminal proceedings in a state court showing that the defendant
was represented throughout by counsel and revealing on its face
no irregularity in the trial is sufficient refutation of his unsupported
charge in a petition for habeas corpus that he was denied the right
to summon witnesses and to testify for himself-is accepted in this
case. P. 256.
2. Upon review of a judgment of a state supreme court denying
a petition for a writ of habeas corpus which alleged that the
petitioner, having been convicted of crime and incarcerated in a
penitentiary, had endeavored to appeal from his conviction within
the time allowed by state law, but without success because the
prison officials, following prison rules, had suppressed his appeal
documents; but where it did not appear that the truth of these
allegations had been inquired into before dismissal of the petitionheld that the case should be sent back to the state court for
further proceedings. P. 256.
153 Kan. 777, 113 P. 2d 1048, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S. 588, to review a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Kansas dismissing a petition for a writ
of habeas corpus.
Mr. H. Thomas Austern for petitioner.
Mr. Jay Kyle, Assistant Attorney General of Kansas,
with whom Mr. Jay S. Parker,Attorney General, was on
the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In 1933, the petitioner Cochran was convicted by a jury
in a Kansas state court upon a charge of passing a $12.60
check with knowledge that it was forged. His motion for
a new trial was overruled. Upon a finding that Cochran

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

had previously been convicted of two other felonies, the
court sentenced him to life imprisonment as an habitual
criminal pursuant to a Kansas statute. Kan. Gen. Stat.
(Corrick, 1935) ยง 21-107a. Two days later, he was sent to
the state penitentiary, where he has since been confined.
In January, 1941, Cochran, acting in his own behalf,
filed an original application for habeas corpus in the
Supreme Court of Kansas. His application sets out the
allegations, among others, that the trial judge had denied
him the right to summon witnesses and to testify on his
own behalf; and that officials of the state penitentiary
enforcing prison rules there in effect had suppressed appeal
documents he had prepared, thereby making it impossible
for him to perfect an appeal during the two year period
allowed by Kansas statute. The State filed a return containing a certified copy of the information on which Cochran was tried, journal entries of the trial, an order overruling Cochran's motion for a new trial, and the judgment
and sentence.
The Kansas Supreme Court denied the writ, stating that
"the records of courts are not set aside upon the unsupported statements of a defeated litigant." 153 Kan. 777,
113 P. 2d 1048, 1049. We accept the court's conclusion
that the record, showing that Cochran was represented
by counsel throughout, and revealing on its face no irregularities in the trial, is sufficient refutation of his unsupported charge that he was denied the right to summon
witnesses and testify for himself.
But the allegations that prison officials frustrated Cochran's efforts to perfect an appeal are a different matter.
Since these allegations relate to a period subsequent to
Cochran's commitment, and since that is the latest event
referred to in the record, the record itself affords no refuta"tion. Nor are these allegations denied in any other part of
the State's answer. Moreover, the opinion of the court
itself recognizes that these allegations had "some basis,"

COCHRAN v. KANSAS.
255

Opinion of the Court.

pointing out that, "under rules . . . prevailing at the
penitentiary" for some time following Cochran's commitment, he was prevented from sending out a petition for
habeas corpus, and that it was not until October, 1935
(after the time for appeal had expired) that such a petition
was actually filed. On the other hand, nothing in the opinion indicates that the court denied the application on the
ground that it had canvassed the allegations and supporting affidavits of Cochran and three others pertaining to
suppression of appeal and had concluded that they were
untrue.
Cochran's application for habeas corpus does not bear
the name of counsel. Not a lawyer, he apparently prepared it himself. On the issue of denial of opportunity to
perfect an appeal, he alleged that the "record shows that
the duly authorized officers and prison officials exercised
unlawful authority by.surpressing your petitioners appeal
documents," etc. In its brief and argument before us,
the State has contended that the word "record" can refer
only to the trial record set out in its return to Cochran's
application. Since that record does not show the alleged
suppression, it is urged that Cochran's application was
properly denied because wholly unsupported. As we have
pointed out, the record of the trial court proceedings, relating as it did to a period ending with Cochran's commitment, could prove nothing with respect to independent
subsequent events. Hence, to place the construction urged
by the State on the word "record" as used by Cochran
would not merely impute to him a technical precision
which his application as a whole contradicts; it would
render the application entirely meaningless.
The State properly concedes that if the alleged facts
pertaining to suppression of Cochran's appeal "were disclosed as being true before the supreme court of Kansas,
there would be no question but that there was a violation
of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth amend-

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Syllabus.

316 U. S.

ment." And in Kansas, habeas corpus is recognized as
affording a remedy for a person held in prison in violation
of a right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.' However inept Cochran's choice of words, he has set out allegations supported by affidavits, and nowhere denied, that
Kansas refused him privileges of appeal which it afforded
to others. Since no determination of the verity of these
allegations appears to have been made, the cause must
be remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. NUNNALLY INVESTMENT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 990, October Term, 1940. Argued March 10, 11, 1942.--Decided
May 11, 1942.
1. A judgment for a refund of income taxes in a suit against the
Collector is not a bar to a later suit against the United States for
an additional refund of income taxes for the same year, paid to
the same Collector. Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33. P. 260.
2. The taxpayer sold all its assets for a consideration consisting of
cash and the assumption by the purchaser of certain obligations
including federal taxes for previous years. The purchaser paid
part of these taxes in 1920, and the remainder in 1921 and 1922.
In determining a deficiency for 1920, the Commissioner used a lower
basis of the assets sold than was used by the taxpayer and included
in the selling price the full amount of the taxes which the purchaser had assumed. The taxpayer, having paid, sued the Collector and recovered a refund based upon the Commissioner's
understatement of the basis of the assets sold. Held, that the
judgment against the Collector did not bar a suit against the
United States claiming further refund on the ground that the
taxes assumed by the purchaser which were not paid in 1920 were
not taxable as income of that year. Pp. 259, 264.
92 Ct. Cls. 358, 36 F. Supp. 332, affirmed.
'See e. g. In re Jarvis, 66 Kan. 329, 31 P. 2d 576. Cf. -Smith v.
O'Grady, 312 U. S. 329.

