450

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

AMERICAN CHICLE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CLAIMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF
I

No. 913. Argued April 29, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
1. Under § 131 (f) of the Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938, allowing to
a domestic corporation in respect of dividends received from a foreign subsidiary, a tax credit of that proportion of "taxes paid" by
the subsidiary which the amount of the dividend bears to the amount
of the subsidiary's "accumulated profits" (i. e., its income less taxes
thereon), the words "taxes paid" are properly construed as meaning
so much of the subsidiary's taxes as are attributable to its "accumulated profits," or the same proportion of the total taxes which the
accumulated profits bear to the total profits. P. 452.
2. A change by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in the administrative practice, to conform to the plain meaning of the Revenue
Act, and operating prospectively, is not precluded by an antecedent
administrative interpretation though of long standing. P. 454.
94 Ct. Cls. 699, 41 F. Supp. 537, affirmed.
CRPORTioARI, 315 U. S. 793, to review the dismissal of a

suit to recover an alleged overpayment of income taxes.
Mr. Erwin N. Griswold for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Archibald Cox and Mrs. Elizabeth B.
Davis were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS deliveted the opinion of the Court.

This case involves the application of § 131 (f) of the
Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938,1 which allows a tax credit
to domestic corporations in respect of income received from
foreign subsidiaries.
During the taxable years 1936, 1937, and 1938, the petitioner, a domestic corporation, received dividends from
foreign subsidiaries of which it was sole stockholder. The
149

Stat. 1648, 1696; 52 Stat. 447, 506; 26 U. S. C. § 13i.

AMERICAN CHICLE CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

subsidiaries paid taxes upon their earnings to the countries
of their domicile. In its income tax returns, the petitioner
claimed the credit allowed by § 131 for the foreign taxes so
paid. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue computed
the credit at a less sum than that the petitioner claimed.
The petitioner paid the resultant taxes, and presented
claims for refund, which were rejected. This action was
brought in the Court of Claims for asserted, overpayments.
The sole matter in controversy-is the proper method of
arriving at the credit granted by § 131. That section permits a domestic corporation to credit against its tax the
amount 'of income, war-profits, and excess-profits taxes
paid or accrued during the taxable year to any foreign
country, with certain limits set by subsections (b) (1) and
(2). The purpose of the provision, like that of its predecessor, § 238 of the Revenue Act of 1921,2 is to obviate
double taxation.'
Section 131 (f), dealing with taxes of a foreign subsidiary,4 provides that, for the purpose of the Section, a domestic corporation receiving dividends from such a subsidiary "in any taxable year shall be deemed to have paid
the Same proportion of any income, war-profits, or excess-,
profits taxes paid" by the subsidiary to a foreign country,
"upon or with respect to the accumulated profits" of the
subsidiary "from which such dividends were paid, which
the amount of such dividends bears to the amount of such
accumulated profits." "Accumulated profits" of the subsidiary.are defined as "the amount of its gains, profits, or
income in excess of the income, war-profits, and excessprofits taxes imposed upon orlwith respect to such profits
or income."
'42 Stat. 227,-258:
'Burnet v. Chicago PortraitCo., 285 U. S. 1.
4 A foreign corporation of whose voting stock the taxpayer
owns a.
I
majority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

The parties are in agreement as to the fraction to be
used in calculating the proportion. The numerator is the
dividends received by the parent. The denominator is
the "accumulated profits" of the subsidiary. The dispute
relates to the multiplicand to which the fraction is to be
applied. The petitioner says it is the total foreign taxes
paid by the subsidiary. The respondent says it is the taxes
paid upon or with respect to the accumulated profits of
the'subsidiary; i. e., so much of the taxes as is properly
attributed to the accumulated profits, or the same proportion of the total taxes which the accumulated profits bear
to the total profits. The Court of Claims so held." Since
several decisions have gone the other way," we granted
certiorari.
If the language of the Revenue Act is to be given effect,
the Government's view seems correct. The statute does
not purport to allow a credit for a stated proportion of the
total foreign taxes paid or the foreign taxes paid "upon
or with respect to" total foreign profits, but for taxes paid
"upon or with respect to" the subsidiary's "accumulated
profits," which, by definition, are its total taxable profits
less taxes paid.
If, as i s admitted, the purpose is to avoid double taxation, the statute, as written, accomplishes that result
The parent receives dividends. Such dividends, not its
subsidiary's profits, constitute its income to be returned
for taxation. The subsidiary pays tax on, or in respect
of, its entire profits; but, since the parent receives distributionsout of what is left after payment of the foreign tax,that is, out of what the statute calls "accumulated profits,"
it shtuld receive a credit only for so much of the foreign
'94 Ct. Cs. 699, 41 F. Supp. 537.
' F. W. Woolworth Co. v. United States, 91 F. 2d 973; Internatioial
Milling Co. v. United States, 89 Ct. Cls, 128,27 F. Supp. 592; Aluminum
Co. of America v. United States, 123 F. 2d 615.

AMERICAN CHICLE CO. v. U. S.
450

Opinion of the Court.

tax paid as relates to or, as the Act says, is paid upon, or
with respect to, the accumulated profits.
. Hence we think that, under the plain terms of the Act,
the Commissioner and the court below were right in limiting the credit by the use as multiplicand of a proportion
of the tax paid abroad appropriately reflecting the relation of accumulated profits to total profits of the subsidiary. But the petitioner insists that the legislative history
and a long indulged administrative construction require
us, in effect, to elide the phrase "upon or with respect to
the accumulated profits" of the foreign subsidiary.
Section 240 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1918 'allowed the
domestic parent receiving dividends from a foreign subsidiary a credit for the same proportion of the taxes paid
by the foreign corporation during the taxable year to any
foreign country which the amount of the dividends received by the parent during the taxable year bore to the
total taxable income of the subsidiary upon or with respect to which such taxes were paid.
This provision had the same object as § i31 of the
Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938; that is, to avoid double
taxation. The difficulty with it was that it did not relate
the credit to the accumulated profits or surplus of the subsidiary out of which the dividends were paid. Thus, if
dividends were paid out of surplus earned in prior years,
and it happened that the subsidiary paid no tax to the
foreign country in the taxable year in questibn, the parent
could claim no credit whatever. There were other eccentric results flowing from the provision of the Act of 1918.
In the Revenue Act of 1921, § 238 (e) 8 was the analogous section. The draftsman of the section stated to the
Senate Committee in charge of the measure: "I rewrote
the old provision, safeguarding it from some abuses which
c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1082.
c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 259.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of theCourt.

316 U. S..

it was open to and closing up some of the gaps that were
in the old provision." Section 238 (e) is substantially the
same as § 131 (f). The alterations of § 240 (c) of the Act
of 1918 were made to permit identification of the accumulated profits of each taxable year out of which the dividends might have been paid and to give credit for a proportion of the subsidiary's taxes attributable to such
accumulated profits.
The Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee indicated that the calculation of the proportion of foreign
tax paid would be exactly the same as it had been under
the 1918 Act. But this would be true only if the dividends were paid in a given year out of the prior year's
earnings and taxes were paid in the same year in respect
of the same prior year's earnings. The petitioner seeks
in this case to apply the proportion provided by the 1918
Act; but this is to ignore the alterations made in that Act
in 1921 which have ever since been retained. In Committee hearings and in Congressional Reports with respect
to the purpose and effect of the changes wrought by the
1921 Act, there were statements indicating ap understanding that the credit was to be proportioned to the dividends
made available to the parent in this country.
The Treasury made no regulation applicable to § 238
(e)of the Revenue Act of 1921. It provided a form for
reporting the tax, which sanctioned the petitioner's
method of computing the credit; and, from 1921 to 1930,
the Commissioner calculated credits for foreign subsidiaries' taxes by that method. -In 1930,, however, the
Treasury promulgated a new form which required the
credit to be computed in the way the Commissioner did
in the present case; and promulgated Regulations 77
under the Revenue Act of 1932, which, in Article 698, required the computation of the credit in the same manner.
The regulations have since remained unchanged: See
Regulations 103 §§ 19.131-3 and 19.131-8. Although

BETTS v. BRADY.
450

Syllabus.

the regulations definitely govern this case, and were made
prior to the years in controversy, the petitioner insists
that the antecedent administrative interpretation long in
force renders it impossible for the Commissioner to promulgate a regulation changing for the future the earlier
practice, even though the new regulation comports with
the plain meaning of the statute. We think the contention cannot be sustained.'
The judgment is
Affirmed.
BETTS v. BRADY, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO HON. CAROLL T. BOND, A JUDGE) OF THE STATE
OF MARYLAND, BEING A JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEALS
OF MARYLAND FROM THE CITY OF BALTIMORE.

No. 837. Argued April 13, 14, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
1. In the light of the applicable law of Maryland, an order of the
Chief Judge of the Court of Alppeals, he being also the judge of that'
court from the City of Baltimore, denying petitioner's release upon
a writ of habeas corpus, held reviewable here by certiorari under Jud.
Code § 237, as a "final judgment" of the "highest court" in which
a decision of the federal question involved could be had. P. 458.
2. A judgment of a state tribunal denying release on habeas corpus,
which is not reviewable in any other state court and ends the particular proceeding, is a final judgment within the meaning of Jud.
Code § 237, notwithstanding that under the state law the prisoner
retains the right to seek discharge by applications to other courts
and judges successively. P. 460.
3. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not incorporate, as such, the specific guarantees found in the Sixth Amendment, although a denial by a State of rights or privileges specifically embodied in that and others of the first eight amendments may,
in certain circumstances, or in connection with other elements, operate, in a given case, to deprive a litigant of, due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth. P. 461.
'Helvering v. Wilshire Oil Co., 3Q8 U. S. 90; Helvering v. Reynolds,
313 U. S. 428; White v. Winchester Country Club, 315 U. S. 32.

