114

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinionlof the Court.

316 U. S.

it is a valid interpretative regulation and a proper exercise
of the rule-making authority.

GOLDSTEIN

ET

AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 256. Argued February 6, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.
Section 605 of the Federal Communications Act does not render inadmissible in a criminal trial in a federal court, testimony (otherwise
admissible) of witnesses who were induced to testify by the use, in
advance of the trial, of communications intercepted in violation of
the Act, but to which communications the defendants were not
parties. P. 117.
120 F. 2d 485, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 314 U. S. 588, to review the affirmance of
convictions of using the mails to defraud and of conspiracy to do so.

Messrs. Theodore Kiendi and Osmond K. Fraenkel
(with whom Messrs. Arthur H. Schwartz and Edward C.
McLean were on the briefs) for Goldstein and Schwartz,
respectively, petitioners. Herman Rubin and Irving
Elentuch, petitioners, submitted pro se.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
GeneralBerge and Mr. H. G. Ingrahamwere on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves the alleged violation of .§ 605 of. the
Federal Communications Act 1 by the admission of testimony in a federal criminal trial. The importance of the
'Act of June 19, 1934, c. 652. 48 Stat. 1064, 1103; 47 U. S. C. § 605.

GOLDSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

questions presented, and a claimed conflict with our
decisions, moved us to grant certiorari.
The petitioners and others were indicted under the mail
fraud 2 and conspiracy I statutes. The alleged scheme
was to defraud insurance companies by presenting false
claims for disability benefits.
At the opening of the trial, the petitioners moved that
the court suppress all records and transcripts of intercepted telephone messages; suppress all evidence the
Government obtained by the use of such messages; suppress the testimony of any witness obtained in the first
instance by the use of such messages, and that of any
witness whose recollection had been refreshed or aided
by such messages.
A preliminary hearing was conducted by the trial judge
in accordance with the practice established in Nardone v.
United States, 308 U. S. 338. The principal subject of
contention was the prospective testimony of Messman
and Garrow, alleged co-conspirators who, the petitioners
asserted, had confessed and turned state's evidence because they had been confronted with intercepted
telephone messages. Messman and Garrow were parties
to these messages, or some of them, but the petitioners
were not.4 The judge ordered all records and transcripts
of intercepted messages suppressed as well as all evidence
obtained as a result of such messages, but he refused to
order suppression of the testimony of witnesses whose
memories had been refreshed or aided thereby. He reserved to the trial final decision on so much of the motion
'Criminal Code § 215; 18 U. S. C. § 338.
' Criminal Code § 37; 18 U. S. C. § 88.

' It is said that petitioners have now discovered that Goldstein was
a participant in twelve of the intercepted telephone conversations,
but it is admitted that the record does not disclose this fact, and there
is no allegation that any of the twelve communications were used in
obtaining the confessions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

as requested the suppression of testimony alleged to be
the result of information derived from the messages.
At the trial, Government witnesses testified that wire
tapping had not furnished clues used in preparing the
case. Messman and Garrow were permitted to testify to
the facts of which they claimed to have knowledge, over
the objection of petitioners. They did not refer to any
intercepted messages or to their contents.
The petitioners were convicted and the judgments were
affirmed on appeal. 5 The Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the convictions ought not to stand if either Messman
or Garrow should not have been allowed to testify. It
thought that the petitioners having proved divulgence
by federal officers of the messages to the witnesses, the
burden was upon the Government to prove that their
testimony was not induced thereby; that the trial judge
failed to find the wire tapping had not been a means of
inducing them to testify, but found only that the petitioners had failed to prove it had been the means. In
this situation the court was of opinion that if the admission of testimony induced by use of the messages was
prohibited by the Communications Act., the judgments
should be reversed. The court ruled, however, that, as
the petitioners were not parties to any of the intercepted communications, they had no standing to object
to their divulgence. In the alternative, it ruled that
the testimony was not a divulgence within the meaning
of §605, but, at most, the presentation in court of evidence procured through past divulgences. The court
also overruled petitioners' contentions that they had been
denied their full right of cross-examination at the preliminary hearing and that the charge to the jury was improper.
We have considered all the assignments of error but
find no substance in any of them save those which go to
the admission of Messman's and Garrow's testimony.. In
6 120 F. 2d 485.

GOLDSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

briefs and oral argument, the parties have labored the
subject of the burden of proof at the preliminary hearing.
The petitioners say it lay with the Government after a
showing of wire tapping and divulgence; the respondent
says it lay with the petitioners throughout. Each asserts
the other failed to carry it. In our view, a decision upon
the point is unnecessary.
We come to the capital and pivotal question: Assuming
the witnesses' testimony was induced by divulging to them
the contents of intercepted telephone messages, was the
admission of this testimony erroneous? We hold that it
was not.
The petitioners assert that § 605 of the Federal Communications Act forbids the admission of evidence obtained by the use in advance of the trial of unlawfully intercepted telephone conversations, and that one who was
not a party to such communications has standing to object
to the admission of such evidence. They insist that the
decisions of this court in Weiss v. United States, 308 U. S.
321, and Nardone v. United States, 308 U. S.338, require
us so to hold and that the court below, in ruling to the
contrary, failed to follow those decisions.
It may be helpful in the consideration of these contentions to quote the relevant portions of the statute and to
recapitulate this court's decisions in cases involving the
admission of evidence in alleged violation of its terms.
The relevant provisions of the section declare that
"... noperson not being authorized by the sender shall
intercept any communication and divulge or publish the
existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning
of such intercepted communication to any person," and
that "no person having received such intercepted communication or having become acquainted with.,the contents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning of the same
or any part thereof, knowing that such information was
so obtained, shall divulge or publish the existence, con-

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

tents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning of the same
or any part thereof, or use the same or any information
therein contained for his own benefit .or for the benefit
of another not entitled thereto ......
In Nardone v. United States,302 U. S. 379, we held that
the Government's introduction of transcripts and recordings of intercepted interstate messages in the trial of a
criminal case constituted a divulgence of such messages
contrary to the express terms of the statute.
In Weiss v. United States, 308 U. S. 321, intrastate
telephone communications were intercepted by federal
agents, their contents were divulged to certain of the
defendants, and, as a result, these defendants confessed
and agreed to turn state's evidence. They were permitted to testify to the contents of the messages. We
held that the interdiction of the statute extended to the
interception and divulgence of intrastate as well as interstate messages. In the light of the facts we denied
the Government's claim that the witnesses' testifying to
the contents of the messages amounted to an authorization by them, as senders, of the divulgence of the communications within the meaning of the statute.
In Nardone v. United States, 308 U. S. 338, it was
claimed that unlawfully intercepted messages had been
used to obtain evidence against the senders, and that
such use, and the introduction of the evidence so obtained,
over the objection of the senders, who were defendants,
constituted a violation of the purpose and policy of the
statute. We held that, if the facts sustained the claim,
the evidence should have been excluded, and we formulated a procedure for ascertaining the facts.
In none of these cases did this court pass upon the
question now presented. In the instant case, the witnesses who confessed and turned state's evidence did not
testify either to the existence of the communications or
to their contents. The contents of messages to some of

GOLDSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

which they were parties, but to which the petitioners
were not parties, were used by the Government, as we
assume, to persuade the witnesses to testify. We further
assume that the interception and divulgence of the messages to these witnesses was unlawful because not authorized by the sender.
The petitioners urge that our decision in Weiss v.
United States, supra,necessarily involved the ruling that
one who was not a party to the intercepted messages has
standing to object to their divulgence at the trial, and,
in view of our application of the statute in Nardone v.
United States, 308 U. S. 338, he has standing to object to
testimony induced as a result of unlawful interception
and use of the messages.
The question now presented was not decided in Weiss v.
United States, supra. The charge was conspiracy.
Goldstein, who was not a participant, and other defendants, who were participants, in the intercepted conversations, were tried together. All objected to testimony respecting the conversations. We held the evidence
inadmissible. The fact that Goldstein was not a party
to the communications was not overlooked. In the
opinion rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals it was
held that the fact could not sustain his conviction if the
messages were erroneously introduced.' This court assumed, in deciding the case, that the Circuit Court of
Appeals was right in holding that, if the admission of the
evidence was wrong as to the other defendants, the
""It may be said with some plausibility that the defendant Goldstein was not prejudiced since he was neither a party to, nor mentioned
in, the conversations obtained through wire tapping. These conversations, however, showed that Goldstein's codefendants were engaged
in a conspiracy which other proof indicated that he joined. They
also gave credence to the testimony of Messman. Such evidence
* weighed against Goldstein and his conviction ought not to stand if
the communications implicating the others were improperly received."
103 F. 2d 3,52. See also United States v. Thomson, 113 F. 2d 643.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

judgment ought to be reversed as to all. And the Circuit
Court of Appeals was of opinion in the present case that,
in the circumstances, the messages could not have been
used in the Weiss case against one of the defendants and
excluded as to the others, with any reasonable expectation
that prejudice would not have resulted to the defendants
as to whom the admission of the messages would have
been error." In this view we concur.
None of the petitioners was a party to the communications used in obtaining the evidence in this case. No
prejudice, therefore, could result by reason of the difficulty
of nullifying the effect upon some defendants of evidence
incompetent as to them but competent as against other
defendants.
It has long been settled that evidence obtained in violation of the prohibition of the Fourth Amendment cannot
be used in a prosecution against the victim of the unlawful
This,
search and seizure if he makes timely objection
for the reason that otherwise the policy and purpose of
the amendment might be thwarted. And we have further
held that the policy underlying the amendment cannot be
circumvented by the indirect use against the victim of
evidence so obtained.'
Although the unlawful interception of a telephone communication does not amount to a search or seizure prohibited by the Fourth Amendment," we have applied the
same policy in respect of the prohibitions of the Federal
Communications Act at the instance of the sender of the
message against whom evidence derived from its unlawful
interception is sought to be introduced. Nardone. v.
United States, 308 U. S. 338.
120 F. 2d 489.
* Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383.
'Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385.
"°Olmsteadv. United States, 2';' U. S. 438; Goldman v. United
States, post, p. 129.

GOLDSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
114

Opinion of the Court.

The question now to be decided is whether we shall
extend the sanction for violation of the Communications
Act so as to make available to one not a party to the
intercepted communication the objection that its use outside the courtroom, and prior to the trial, induced evidence which, except for that use, would be admissible.
No court has ever gone so far in applying the implied
sanction for violation of the Fourth Amendment. While
this court has never been called upon to decide the point,1'
the federal courts in numerous cases, and with unanimity,
have denied standing to one not the victim of an unconstitutional search and seizure to object to the introduction
in evidence of that which was seized.'
A fortiori the
same rule should apply to the introduction of evidence
induced by the use or disclosure thereof to a witness other
than the victim of the seizure. We think no broader
sanction should be imposed upon the Government in respect of violations of the Communications Act. The
court below was of the view that a divulgence of the intercepted messages might lawfully be made with the consent of the sender, and we agree. The court further
thought that, as the sender might make such divulgence
lawful by his consent, none but he was intended to be
protected against divulgence by the statute." Again we
agree.
UThe

privilege against self-incrimination afforded by the Fifth

Amendment is personal to the witness.

Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43;

Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361.
'The principle has been applied in at least fifty cases by the Circuit
Courts of Appeals in nine circuits, and in the Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia, not to mention many decisions by District
Courts. Many of the cases are collected in Note 168 to the text of
the Fourth Amendment in the United States Code Annotated.
' It has been held that both parties to a telephone conversation are
senders, as the statute uses the term. United States v. Polakoff, 112
F. 2d 888.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MuRPHY,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

The petitioners, however, point out that the statute
also forbids the use of an unlawfully intercepted message,
or any information therein contained, by any person for
his own benefit or the benefit of another not entitled
thereto; and they say that the Government officials violated the Act by using the messages, and the information
they contained, to induce the senders' confessions and
testimony. They urge that such use is forbidden by the
Act and that they have standing to object to the introduction of the evidence thus obtained. The Government
answers that this provision of the Act was not intended
to reach the use of the contents of the messages by federal officers for obtaining evidence, but was meant to prevent use for the personal advantage or benefit of the
user. We have no occasion to determine the soundness
of the Government's argument.
We are of opinion that, even though the use made of
the communications by the prosecuting officers to induce
the parties to them to testify were held a violation of the
statute, this would not render the testimony so procured
inadmissible against a person not a party to the message.
This is the settled common law rule. 4 There was no use
at the trial of the intercepted communications, or of any
information they contained as such. If such use as occurred here is a violation of the Act, the statute itself
imposes a sanction."
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE

MURPHY,

dissenting:

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, and I
cannot agree with the opinion of the Court.
Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S. 438, 466, 467.
§ 501, 47 U. S. C. § 501.

GOLDSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
114

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

Messman and Garrow were the chief witnesses for the
Government, and the testimony of each was vital. It is
not disputed that Messman turned state's evidence after
he was confronted with the contents of telephone messages which implicated him in the offense, but which had
been obtained by wire-tapping in violation of § 605 of
the Federal Communications Act. The extent of the
unlawful "tapping" and the keen desire of the Government officials to use the "taps" to secure other testimony
are graphically illustrated by the following statement
made by an assistant United States attorney to Messman
after his arrest:
"I am telling you before we go any further that there
is no use of us kidding each other. We have watched
your telephone; we have watched all these lawyers' telephones; we have had rooms tapped. We know what is
going on. We are not stabbing in the dark. If you want
to hear your voice on a record we will be glad to play it.
In your instance, Doctor, there is so much to cover. You
have been in this for so many years that we feel that in
order for you to help yourself, since you are considered
one of the principals here, it would be wise for you to
indicate to us whether you intend to tell us everything and
come clean, or whether you intend to play ball with the
Garrows and the rest of the crowd. We feel that you can
be of great value and you want to help yourself. That
is straight talk."
And Garrow knew of the existence of records of damaging
conversations made by illegal "taps" on his lines before
his decision to testify for the Government.
Neither the intercepted messages nor their purport were
placed in evidence, and, so far as the record shows, petitioners were not parties to them. It is evident, nevertheless, that the evidence adduced by the Government against
petitioners through the testimony of Messman and Gar-

1124

OCTOBER TERM, 1941. :
Mumr, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

row was obtained by the use of information gathered by
wire-tapping in violation of law."
The main question presented for decision is whether
evidence so obtained is vitiated and rendered inadmissible
by § 605, the relevant part of which reads:
i.... and no person not being authorized by the sender
shall intercept any communication and divulge or publish
the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning of such intercepted communication to any person; . . .
and no person having received such intercepted communi'Both Messman and Garrow testified at the preliminary hearing
that the "taps" did not influence their decisions to testify for the
Government, but each was an accomplished perjurer. We do not
understand that the trial judge, in ruling that the testimony of Messman and Garrow was admissible, meant to find that the Government
proved that the "taps" did not contribute to their breakdown. On the
contrary, it is clear that he meant to find only that petitioners failed to
carry the burden of proving that the Government secured the testimony
of Messman and Garrow by use of the "taps," a burden which he erroneously put upon petitioners. For after an accused sustains the initial
burden, imposed by Nardone v. United States, 308 U. S. 338, of proving
to the satisfaction of the trial judge in the preliminary hearing that
wire-tapping was unlawfully employed, as petitioners did here, it is
only fair that the burden should then shift to the Government to
convince the trial judge that its proof had an independent origin. As
the court below said:
"... this should be the rule in analogy to the well settled doctrine
in civil cases that a wrongdoer who has mingled the consequences
of lawful and unlawful conduct, has the burden of disentangling them
and must bear the prejudice of his failure to do so; that is, that it
is unfair to throw upon the innocent party the duty of unravelling
the skein which the guilty party has snarled. To impose the duty
upon the prosecution is particularly appropriate here, for it necessarily has full knowledge of just how its case has been prepared; given
a prima facie case against it, i. e., 'taps' and some use of them, it should
do the rest." 120 F. 2d 485, 488.
Since the trial judge did not shift the burden to the Government after
petitioners' initial showing as he should have done, there can be no
contention on this record that the testimony of Messman and Garrow
was untainted by "taps."

GOLDSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
114

MunRHY, J., dissenting.

cation or having become acquainted with the contents,
substance, purport, effect, or meaning of the same or any
part thereof, knowing that such information was so obtained, shall divulge or publish the existence, contents,
substance, purport, effect, or meaning of the same or any
part thereof, or use the same or any information therein
contained for his own benefit or for the benefit of another
not entitled thereto . . ."2

The statute expresses a rule of public policy. In enacting § 605, Congress sought to protect society at large
against the evils of wire-tapping and kindred unauthorized
intrusions into private intercourse conducted by means
of the modern media of communication, telephone, telegraph, and radio. To that end the statute prohibits not
only the interception and the divulgence of private messages without the consent of the sender, but also the use
of information so acquired by any person not entitled to it.
The protection of the statute would have been illusory
indeed if, while interception and divulgence were penalized, one was free, nevertheless, to use information so obtained. Unless the language of the "use for benefit" prohibition does not mean what it says, the actions of the
Government agents in securing the benefit of the crucial
testimony of Messman and Garrow by the use of illegal
"taps" were clear violations of that prohibition. There is
no merit in the Government's contention that the unequivocal language of the "use for benefit" clause should
be construed as condemning only such uses as are designed to result in some monetary or other similar benefit
of a private nature, for the prohibitions of § 605 are applicable to the Government and its officers, as well as to
private persons. Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S.
379. The prohibition in this last clause of § 605 by Congress of the "use" of outlawed evidence is so unequivocal,

'Emphasis added.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

and controlling that the failure of the court below even
to refer to this clause can only be explained on. the assumption that it was overlooked.
On the issue of admissibility, the second Nardone case,
308 U. S. 338, the logical extension of the principles of
Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379, and Weiss v.
United States, 308 U. S. 321, should control our decision.
In that case, as in this, the evidence in dispute was not
the messages themselves or their purport, but the claim
was made that other evidence against the defendants was
obtained by the use of information gained by unlawful
wire-tapping. We held that the policy of § 605 required
the exclusion not merely of the intercepted messages but
also of the other evidence acquired through their unlawful
use. Otherwise the broad purpose of the statute to outlaw
practices "inconsistent with ethical standards and destructive of personal liberty" 8 would have been largely
defeated. We also suggested the preliminary hearing as
a procedure for determining what evidence was the "fruit
of the poisonous tree" and hence inadmissible. Since the
preliminary hearing in this case leaves no doubt that the
testimony of Messman and Garrow was the forbidden
fruit, it should not have been admitted.
,The only possible differentiation between this case and
the second Nardone case is that, here, petitioners were not
parties to the illegally intercepted messages, but that calls
for no difference in legal result. While the sender can
render interception, divulgence, or use lawful by his consent, it is a complete non sequitur to conclude that he
alone has standing to object to the admission of evidence
obtained in violation of § 605. To say that petitioners
have no standing to object to the testimony of Messman
and Garrow because they were not parties to the inter'Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379, 383.

GOLDSTEIN v. UNITED STATES.
114

MURpHy, J., dissenting.

cepted messages used to secure that testimony, is to ignore
the governing factor that controlled our decision in the second Nardone case, namely, that to permit the use of evidence so obtained would defeat or substantially impair the
underlying policy and purpose of § 605. It is immaterial,
for the object to be served by that section, whether objection is made by'the one sending the communication or
by another who is prejudiced by its use. The rule that
evidence obtained by a violation of § 605 is inadmissible
is not a remedy for the sender; it is the obedient answer to
the Congressional command that society shall not be
plagued with such practices as wire-tapping.
Lower federal court cases to the effect that only the victim of a search and seizure contravening the Fourth
Amendment can object to the evidence thereby obtained
do not offer a proper analogy. Not only are those decisions hard to square with statements by Mr. Justice
Holmes in Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251
U. S. 385, 392,' but, even assuming their soundness, sufficient difference in scope exists between § 605 and the
Fourth Amendment to render analogy unsafe. Thus
§ 605 forbids all interception, divulgence, or use by any
"'The essence of a provision forbidding the acquisition of evidence
in a certain way is that not merely evidence so acquired shall not be
used before the Court but that it shall not be used at all. .. . the knowledge gained by the Government's own wrong cannot be used by it in
the way proposed."
The guaranties of the Fourth Amendment "are to be liberally construed to prevent impairment of the protection extended." Grau v.
United States, 287 U. S. 124, 128, and cases cited.
It is evident that to allow the Government to use evidence obtained
in violation of the Fourth Amendment against parties not victims
of the unconstitutional search and seizure is to allow the Government
to profit by its wrong and to reduce in large measure the protection
of the Amendment.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

person without the consent of the sender, while the Fourth
Amendment bans only unreasonable searches and seizures.
The holding in the opinion of the Court that evidence
obtained in violation of § 605 is not rendered inadmissible
because § 501 of the Act provides specific sanctions for
violations of § 605, is a direct repudiation of both Nardone cases and the Weiss case. In each of those cases,
evidence secured by violation of § 605 was declared to be
inadmissible, despite the existence of § 501. This is so
because, as we held in the first Nardone case, "the act forbids such testimony." 302 U. S. 379,382. That evidence
procured hi violation of federal law by agents of the Government is inadmissible in federal prosecutions has been
established and enforced by an unbroken series of decisions in this Court beginning with Weeks v. United States,
232 U. S. 383. By these decisions this Court has refused
to make itself a participant in lawless conduct by sanctioning the use in open court of evidence illegally secured.
That principle was forcibly put in a separate opinion in
Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S. 435, 453. After referring to "the inherent right of the court not to be made
the instrument of wrong," the opinion continues: "The
doctrine [the defense of entrapment] rests, rather, on a
fundamental rule of public policy. The protection of its
own functions and the preservation of the purity of its
own temple belongs only to the court. It is the province
of the court and of the court alone to protect itself and
the government from such prostitution of the criminal
law." 287 U. S. 435, 456, 457. When Congress condemned the "use" of lawlessly intercepted communications, the last thing it intended to sanction was the use
of such interceptions in a court of justice. There can
be no reason to ignore or silently overrule our considered
decisions in both Nardone cases and the Weiss case, especially in view of the fact that Congress has had several
opportunities since the first Nardone case to amend § 606

GOLDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
114

Syllabus.

to obviate the result of that case if it were not a true
interpretation of Congressional policy and intent.'
GOLDMAN v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND .CIRCUIT.

No. 962, October Term, 1940. Argued February 5, 6, 1942.-Decided
April 27, 1942.
1. Refusal of the judge in the trial of a criminal case in the federal
court, to allow the defendant to inspect the memoranda of Government witnesses-where the memoranda were not used by the
witnesses in court, but only to refresh their recollection prior to testifying, and were also part of the Government's files-held not an
abuse of discretion. P. 132.
2. Divulgence of a person's telephone conversation, overheard as it
was spoken into the telephone receiver, does not violate § 605 of
the Federal Communications Act, as in such case there is neither a
"communication" nor an "interception" within the meaning of the
Act. P. 133.
3. Evidence obtained by federal agents by use of a detectaphone,
applied to the wall of a room adjoining the office of the defendant,
held not unlawfully obtained as a consequence of a prior trespass
committed by the agents in the defendant's office, where such trespass, as found by the courts below, did not aid materially in the use
of the detectaphone. P. 134.
4. The use by federal agents of a detectaphone, whereby conversations
in the office of a defendant were overheard through contact on the
&Several attempts to amend § 605 since the first Nardone case have
failed of enactment. See S. 3756, 75th Cong., 3d Sess. (1938) and S.
Rep. No. 1790, 75th Cong., 3d Sess. (1938) p. 3. See also H. J. Res.
571, 76th Cong., 3d Bess. (1940); H. R. 2266, 77th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1941); H. R. 3099, 77th Cong., 1st Sess. (1941); H. R. 4228, 77th
Cong., 1st Sess. (1941 .
*Together with No. 963, October Term, 1940, Shuiman v. United
States, and No. 980, October Term, 1940, Theodore Goldman v. United
States, also on writs of certiorari, 314 U. S. 701, to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

