NAT. BROADCASTING CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO., INC., ET AL.

V.

UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 1025. Argued April 30, May 1, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
Decided in accordance with No. 1026, Columbia BroadcastingSystem
v. United States, ante, p. 407.
44 F. Supp. 688, reversed.

P. 449.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
for want of jurisdiction a bill to set aside an order of
the Federal Communications Commission.
Mr. John T. Cahill,with whom Messrs. David M. Wood,
Thomas H. Middleton, A. L. Ashby, and E. W. Middleton
were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Telford Taylor, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, Richard S. Salant, CharlesR.
Denny, Harry M. Plotkin,and Max Goldman were on the
brief, for the United States et al; and Mr. Louis G. Caldwell, with whom Messrs. Leon Lauterstein,Emanuel Dannett, and Percy H. Russell, Jr.were on the brief (Mr. Donald C. Beelar entered an appearance), for the Mutual
Broadcasting System, Inc., appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to Columbia Broadcasting
System v. United States, ante, p. 407. Both present substantially similar facts-and the same issues of law.
Appellant, National Broadcasting Company, maintains
two radio broadcasting systems, the "blue network" and
the "red network." The two other appellants operate
radio broadcasting stations licensed by the Comimunica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

tions Commission, and have entered into contracts with
National similar to those involved in the Columbia case
and to those of other stations which participate in National's networks.
Appellants brought the present suit in the Southern
District of New York to set aside the order of the Commission of May 2, 1941, as amended by its order of October 11, 1941, promulgating the Chain Broadcasting Regulations which we considered in the Columbia case, on the
grounds that the order is beyond the Commission's statutory authority or, if within it, that the statute is an unconstitutional delegation of the legislative power of Congress in violation of Article I, ยง 1 of the Constitution, and
operates to deprive appellants of property without the due
process of law guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment.
The district court of three judges dismissed the complaint, 44 F. Supp. 688, holding that the Commission's
order is not reviewable under the provisions of ยง 402 (a)
of the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1093, 47 U. S.
C. ยง 402 (a), and the Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat. 219,
28 U. S. C. ยง 47, but stayed the operation of the order
pending direct appeal to this Court.
According to the allegations of the bill of complaint,
National conducts its broadcasting business in substantially the same manner as Columbia. It establishes telep1one wire connections with licensed broadcasting stations with which it enters into contracts for limited periods for chain broadcasting of its radio programs. These
contracts do not require that the station shall broadcast
the programs of no other chain than National. But a feature of them is the option given to National for use of the
station on 28 days' notice for certain specified periods of
radio time in broadcasting commercial network programs
provided by National. It is alleged that, because of the
contract provisions, the regulations will require the stations affiliated with National to abandon their contracts

NAT. BROADCASTING CO. v. U. S.
447

Opinion of the Court.

or lose their licenses either by the Commission's cancellation of or refusal to renew them. The bill of complaint
makes a sufficient showing of irreparable injury to National, including an allegation that forty-eight affiliated
stations have served notice of abrogation of the
contracts.
For the reasons stated at length in the opinion in the
Columbia case, we hold that the order of the Commission
is reviewable in the present suit by the district court of
three judges. The bill of complaint states a cause of action in equity. The judgment will accordingly be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
Unlike the Columbia case, the record discloses no facts
showing what effect the Commission's minute adopted
after the present suit was brought has had or will have
upon the cancellation of appellants' contracts by the affiliated stations. So far as relevant that will be a matter
for consideration by the court below, as will be the question, not considered here, whether the appellants other
than National are proper parties plaintiff.
As in the Columbia case the stay now in effect will be
continued, on terms to be settled by the court below.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR.
JUSTICE DOUGLAS dissent for the reasons set forth in the

dissenting opinion in Columbia Broadcasting System v.
United States, ante, p. 407.

