TRADE COMM'N v. RALADAM CO.
Opinion of the Court.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. RALADAM
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 826. Argued April 13, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.
1. A judgment refusing to enforce a cease-and-desist order of the

Federal Trade Commission because of the inadequacy of the findings and proof as revealed by the particular record is not controlling in later proceedings presenting different facts and a
different record. P. 150.
2. One of the objects of the Federal Trade Commission Act was to
prevent potential injury by stopping unfair methods of competition in their incipiency. P. 152.
3. When the Federal Trade Commission finds that deceptive state-

ments are being made extolling the quality of merchandise in active competition with other merchandise, it is authorized to infer
that trade will be diverted from competitors who do not engage
in such unfair methods. P. 152.
123 F. 2d 34, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. 790, to review a judgment setting

aside a cease-and-desist order of the Federal Trade
Commission.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Mr.
Charles H. Weston were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Rockwell T. Gust, with whom Mr. David A. Howell
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals set aside a cease and
desist order of the Federal Trade Commission upon the
ground that certain findings were not supported by evidence. 123 F. 2d 34. The refusal of the court to enforce
the Commission's order rested in part upon an interpreta,

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

tion of this Court's decision in a prior controversy between
the same parties. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam
Co., 283 U. S. 643. Because of the importance of questions raised, we granted certiorari.
Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38
Stat. 719, 15 U. S. C. ยง 45, declares unfair methods of
competition in commerce to be unlawful; empowers the
Commission to prevent such methods; and authorizes the
Commission after hearings and findings of fact to issue
orders requiring violators "to cease and desist from using
such method of competition." In 1929, the Commission,
after hearings, found that the Raladam Company had
used unfair methods of competition in selling a preparation called Marmola by making misleading and deceptive
statements concerning its qualities as a remedy for overweight. The Commission issued a cease and desist order,
which. the Circuit Court of Appeals vacated. 42 F. 2d
430. This Court affirmed the Court of Appeals' judgment, saying that there was "neither finding nor evidence
from which the conclusion legitimately can be drawn that
these advertisements substantially injured or tended . . .
to injure the business of any competitor or of competitors
generally, whether legitimate or not. . . . It is impossible to say whether, as a result of respondent's advertise-.
ments, any business was diverted, or was likely to be
diverted, from others engaged in like trade, or whether
competitors, identified or unidentified, were injured in
their business, or were likely to be injured, or, indeed,
whether any other anti-obesity remedies were sold or
offered for sale in competition, or were of such a character
as naturally to come into any real competition, with respondent's preparation in the interstate market." Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., supra, 652-653. It
is clear that the reasons for refusing to enforce the Commission's order are grounded upon the inadequacy of the
findings and proof, as revealed in the particular record

TRADE COMM'N v. RALADAM CO.
149

Opinion of the Court.

then before this Court. Hence, these reasons are not
controlling in this case, arising, as it does, out of different
proceedings and presenting different facts and a different
record for our consideration.
In 1935, the Commission instituted the present proceedings against Raladam, charging unfair methods of competition in violation of ยง 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act. Hearings were held and much evidence was heard
concerning Raladam's trade methods since the date of
the earlier cease and desist order. This time the Commission found with meticulous particularity that Raladam
had made many misleading and deceptive statements to
further sales of Marmola; that Marmola had many active
rivals for the trade of those who were interested in fatreducing remedies; that Raladam's misleading statements
had the "tendency and capacity" to induce people "to purchase and use respondent's . . . preparation or medicine
for reducing purposes . . .in preference to and to the exclusion of the products of competitors, . . . and to divert
trade to respondent from such competitors engaged in
the sale in interstate commerce of medicines, preparations,
systems, methods, books of instruction, and other articles
and means designed, intended and used for the purpose of
reducing weight."
These findings were an adequate basis for the Commission's order. The court below, however, was of the opinion that there was no substantial evidence to support the
finding that the alleged unfair methods "substantially
injured or tended to injure the business of any competitor." The evidence shows that sales of Marmola to the
consuming public are made at retail drug stores throughout the country; that Raladam distributes Marmola both
to wholesalers and retailers; that the wholesalers and
retailers who sell Marmola also sell numerous other remedies for taking off fat; that the essential fat-reducing element in Marmola is desiccated thyroid, which is also an

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

element in some of the other remedies sold to the public
with or without doctors' prescriptions; that many books
of instruction on methods of reducing weight are sold in
interstate commerce; and that the gross sales of Marmola
were from $350,000 to $400,000 a year. From this and
other evidence, the Commission concluded that numerous
antifat remedies were offered for sale in the same market
as Marmola, and that Marmola was in active competition
with them for the favor of the remedy-purchasing public.
It is not necessary that the evidence show specifically
that losses to any particular trader or traders arise from
Raladam's success in capturing part of the market. One
of the objects of the Act creating the Federal Trade Commission was to prevent potential injury by stopping unfair
methods of competition in their incipiency. Fashion
Guild v. Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S. 457, 466. And when
the Commission finds, as it did here, that misleading and
deceptive statements were made with reference to the
quality of merchandise in active competition with other
merchandise, it is also authorized to infer that trade will
be diverted from competitors who do not engage in such
"unfair methods." Federal Trade Comm'n v. Winsted
Co., 258 U. S. 483, 493. The findings of the Commission
in this case should have been sustained against the attack
made upon them.
Raladam contends here, as it did before the Commission
and the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the judgment of
this Court in the first case makes the issues here in controversy res judicata,and therefore bars these proceedings.
It also contends that the denial by this Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals in the earlier proceedings, of the
Commission's motion to. offer additional evidence with
respect to competitors and injury to competition, should
have a like effect. We think these contentions are without merit, and therefore agred with the court below; in

MUNICIPAL INVESTORS v. BIRMINGHAM. 153
149

Syllabus.

its determination that a decision on the merits was
appropriate.
The respondent has not sought in this Court to sustain
the judgment of the court below on any other ground.
Accordingly, the judgment is reversed with directions that
the order of the Federal Trade Commission be affirmed.
Reversed.
MUNICIPAL INVESTORS ASSOCIATION v.

BIRMINGHAM Et AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 755. Argued April 1, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.
1. When asked to decide whether a contract has been impaired by
state legislation, in violation of the Contract Clause of the Constitution, this Court first ascertains whether the alleged contract
exists, even though, in so doing, it must determine questions of
state law which have not been decided by the state court. P. 157.
2. Provisions in a municipal charter for making "an additional pro rata
assessment" to supply the deficiency when any special assessment
shall "prove insufficient" to pay for the improvement for which
it was levied, and declaring that the special assessment district
bonds issued to pay for an improvement shall "be payable out of
the special assessment district fund when the assessment is collected"; together with provisions in the bonds whereby, the
municipality promises to pay the principal and interest "from the
special assessment fund created for the purpose," and pledges its
full faith and credit for the payment of each bond "from the special
assessment fund created for the purpose when the same shall have
been collected," do not establish a contractual right in the bondholders to require that the municipality, in order to meet deficiencies in the collection of assessments, shall re-assess lots in the
improvement district which have been sold for non-payment of
the original assements. P. 158.,
298 Mich. 314, 299 N. W. 90, affirmed.

