COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
Counsel for Parties.

COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM, INC. v.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 1026. Argued May 1, 1942.-Decided June 1, 1942.
1. To maintain a suit under § 402 (a) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934, and the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913,
38 Stat. 219, 220, the action of the Commission sought to be set
aside must be an "order," and the bill must state a cause of action
in equity. P. 415.
2. Where regulations promulgated by order of the Federal Communications Commission in the exercise of its rule-making power, to
govern its policy and action in the licensing of broadcasting stations,
provide that there shall be no renewal of the licenses of stations whose
contracts with a broadcasting network contain certain provisions
proscribed by the Commission and that such licenses may be revoked, which regulations if valid alter the contractual rights
of the networks, a network organization whose business is
so dependent upon the maintenance and renewal of such contracts
that their cancellation, or the threat of it, will cause irreparable injury
to its enterprise and property, is entitled to a judicial review of the
order and regulations whose validity is challenged, by a suit brought
under § 402 (a) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, without awaiting action by the Commission for enforcement of the regulations against a station licensee. Pp. 416, 425.
44 F. Supp. 688, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
for want of jurisdiction a bill to set aside an order of the
Federal Communications Commission.
Mr. CharlesE. Hughes, Jr., with whom Messrs. John J.
Burns,Allen S. Hubbard,HaroldL. Smith, and Richard W.
Hogue, Jr.were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Telford Taylor, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Robert L. Stern, RichardS. Salant,CharlesR.
Denny, HarryM. Plotkin,and Max Goldman were on the

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

brief, for the United States et al.; and Mr. Louis G. Caldwell, with whom Messrs. Leon Lauterstein,Emanuel Dannett, and Percy H. Russell, Jr. were on the brief (Mr. Donald C. Beelar entered an appearance), for the Mutual
Broadcasting System, Inc.,-appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Federal Communications Commission, by its order
of May 2, 1941, as amended by its order of October 11,
1941, promulgated regulations which purport to require
the Commission to refuse to grant a license to any broadcasting station which enters into certain defined types of
contract with any broadcasting network organization.
These regulations, it is alleged, affect adversely appellant's
contractual relations with broadcasting stations and impair its ability to carry on its business in maintaining and
operating its nationwide broadcasting network. The
regulations as amended on October 11, 1941, together with
a supplemental "minute" promulgated by the Commission on October 31, 1941, are set forth at the end of this
opinion, post, p. 425. The question for our decision is
whether appellant is entitled to secure a judicial review of
the order by a suit brought under § 402 (a) of the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1093, 47 U. S. C.
§ 402 (a), and the Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat. 219,
28 U. S. C. § 47.
Pursuant to § 402 (a) appellant brought the present
suit against the United States in the Southern District of
New York, to enjoin enforcement of the Commission's order as contrary to the public interest and beyond the
Commission's statutory authority, and on the further
ground, if the order be deemed within that authority, that
the statute is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative
power by Congress in violatioi of Article I, § 1 of the Constitution, and operates to deprive appella it of property

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

without due process of law in violation of the Fifth
Amendment. The case was heard by a court of three
judges, which permitted the Commission and the Mutual
Broadcasting Company to intervene as defendants. It
granted appellees' motion to dismiss the complaint for
want of jurisdiction, 44 F. Supp. 688, and stayed the operation of the Commission's order pending direct appeal to
this Court.
In 1938 the Communications Commission authorized
an investigation "tb determine what special regulations
applicable to radio stations engaged in chain or other
broadcasting are required in the public interest, convenience, or necessity." Extensive hearings were held by a
committee consisting of three members of the Commission, at whose request the national networks, including
appellant, intervened. In June, 1940, the committee
made a report, on the basis of which briefs were filed and
oral argument was presented before the full Commission
by the three national networks and other interested parties. In May, 1941, the Commission issued its "Report
on Chain Broadcasting" and ordered the adoption of the
regulations which, in their amended form, are the subject
of the present controversy.
The relevant facts stated in the bill of complaint are
as follows: Appellant or its predecessor has been engaged
in the business of nationwide network or chain broadcasting since 1927. It has a large amount of physical property
used iii the business and has built up a valuable goodwill.
For its broadcasts it maintains a staff of employees and
expends large amounts for musicians and broadcasting
performers. It has commitments by long-term contracts
aggregating more than $4,000,000 for broadcasting expenditures, including those for the use of land and buildings
and for the furnishing of news and broadcasting programs
in the next few years. Appellant's total property devoted
to its broadcasting business exceeds $18,000,000 in value;

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

its earnings from the network exceeded $3,000,000 in both
1939 and 1940.
Chain broadcasting is the means by which radio programs are made available to all or a large part of the nationwide radio audience. It is defined by the Communications Act, 47 U. S. C. § 153 (p), as the "simultaneous
broadcasting of an identical program by two or more connected stations." The chain broadcaster prepares radio
programs, for which it engages performers in advance,
and simultaneously broadcasts them over a large number
of radio stations to which the programs are transmitted
from some central point of origination by wire telephone
lines leased by the broadcaster, here the appellant. The
programs, which are prepared well in advance of the
broadcast and given by persons employed for the purpose
by appellant, are of two classes-commercial programs
sponsored and paid for by advertisers, and sustaining programs furnished by appellant and not paid for by any,
advertiser.
Appellant's network comprises 123 stations in 122 cities
in the United States. It is so operated as to enable ninety
per cent of the radio audience of the United States to listen
simultaneously to programs provided by appellant and
broadcasted over these stations. Appellant owns and
operates seven of the stations and leases an eighth, all licensed by the Commission. With the remaining 115 stations it enters into individual contracts, usually for periods
of five years, terminable in some instances by appellant
on twelve months' notice. By these contracts, appellant
undertakes to furnish each station with an average of at
least sixty hours per week of network sustaining and sponsored programs. The sustaining programs are furnished
without charge, the station being free to use them or not
as it chooses. Appellant undertakes to furnish the station
with all commercial programs which the sponsor request,
the station to broadcast and to pay the station a specifier

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

hourly rate for the use of its facilities in broadcasting such
programs. Appellant agrees not to furnish its programs
to other stations in the same city; the affiliated station,
with exceptions not now material, agrees not to broadcast
the program of any other network. Of critical importance
in the present litigation is the stipulation of the affiliated
station that it will, upon not less than twenty-eight days'
notice from appellant, broadcast the sponsored or com-::
mercial program furnished to it by appellant for at least
fifty "converted" hours (averaging seventy-nine regular
clock hours) per week.
These provisions of appellant's contracts are alleged to
be indispensable to the maintenance and efficient operation of its network and to the existence of a strong and
efficient network broadcasting system, and necessary to
enable appellant to compete with other advertising media.
On'May 2, 1941, the Commission issued its order which, as
amended by its order of October 11, 1941, promulgated the
"Chain Broadcasting Regulations" of which appellant
complains, and which the Commission characterized in its
Report as "the expression of the general policy we will
follow in exercising our licensing power."' The regulations provide that no license shall be granted to a broadcast
1The Commission in
its Report says, p. 85:
"We believe that the announcement of the principles we intend to
apply in exercising our licensing power will expedite business and
further the ends of justice.
"Announcements of policy may take the form of regulations or of
general public statements, In either case, the applicant's right to a
hearing on the question whether he does in fact propose to operate in
the public interest is fully preserved. The regulations we are adopting are nothing more than the expression of the general policy we will
follow in exercising our licensing power. The formulation of a regula-,
tion in general terms is an important aid to consistency and predictability and does not prejudice any rights of the applicant. Good ad-

ministrative practice would seem to demand that such a statement of
policy or rules and regulations be promulgated wherever sufficient

information is available upon which they may be based."

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

station having contracts with a network organization, containing any of several provisions which are characteristic
of appellant's contracts with its affiliates. These include
provisions by which the station is prevented from broadcasting the programs of any other network organization
(3.101); or which prevent another station serving substantially the same area from broadcasting the network programs not taken by the station applying for license, or
prevent another station serving a substantially different
area from broadcasting any program of the network
organization (3.102); or by which the station contracts
for affiliation with the network for a period longer than
two years (3.103) ; or by which the station "options for network programs any time subject to call on less than 56
days' notice or more time than a total of three hours"
within each of four specified segments of the broadcast
day, the regulation declaring "such options may not be
exclusive as against other network organizations and may
not prevent or hinder the station from optioning or selling
any or all of the time covered by the option, or other time,
to other network organizations" (3.104) ; or which prevent
the station (a) from rejecting network programs which the
station reasonably believes to be unsatisfactory or unsuitable or (b) from substituting for the network program
a program of outstanding local or national importance
(3.105).
After making its order of May 2, 1941, the Commission
deferred its effective date until further order. By its
order of October 11,1941, the Commission fixed the effective date as November 15, 1941, and directed "that the
effective date of Regulation 3.106 with respect to any station may be extended from time to time in order to permit
the orderly disposition of properties," and "that the effective date of Regulation 3.107 shall be suspended indefinitely and any further order of the Commission placing
said Regulation 3.107 in effect shall provide for not less

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

than six months' notice and for further extension of the
effective date from time to time in order to permit the
orderly disposition of properties."
The bill of complaint also alleges that the purpose and
effect of the regulations are to prohibit station licensees
from having agreements of the kind which appellant has
with its affiliates; that prior to the order of May 2, 1941,
it was the practice of the Commission to renew the licenses
of stations annually and that the licensed stations have
had a reasonable expectancy of the annual renewal of their
licenses; that 115 licensed stations have such contracts
with appellant, expiring at various timegi between the original effective date of the regulations and December 31,
1947. It is alleged that when their Current licenses expire, at the latest, and perhaps earlieIthrough the revocation of existing licenses, such stations face the loss of their
licenses if they perform or continue in force or renew any
existing contracts containing the described provisions.
The bill alleges that since the stations fear the loss of
their licenses, as a result of the regulations, they will not
negotiate for or renew affiliation contracts containing such
provisions. And because they fear the loss of their
licenses, the stations have threatened to cancel and repudiate their affiliation contracts, and many have notified
appellant that they will not be bound by their contracts
after the regulations become effective. As a consequence,
appellant's ability to conduct its business and maintain its
public broadcasting service is seriously impaired and the
regulations will make the operation of appellant's business more costly, reduce its earnings and render its property and business less valuable.
The bill of complaint was filed October 30, 1941. The
following day the Commission promulgated a supplemental "minute" setting up a procedure by which the validity
of the regulations might be tested upon application for a
license by an individual licensee. The minute declared

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

that if a station wished to challenge the regulations the
Commission would grant a temporary extension of its
license until there had been a final court determination of
the issues. In the event of such litigation, and if the
validity of the regulations were sustained, "the Commission will nevertheless grant a regular license to the licensee,
otherwise entitled thereto, who has unsuccessfully litigated that issue, if the licensee thereupon conforms to the
decision."
An affidavit subsequently submitted by appellant
in
support of its motion for a temporary injunction states
that since the Commission's minute of October 31st, appellant has continued to receive indications that its affiliates will cancel and repudiate their contracts and refuse
to renew them, and has received no indication that the
minute has or will have the effect of inducing stations to
assume the burden of testing the validity of the regulations. Attached to the affidavit are letters from five affiliates, written after October 31st, indicating their intention
not to be bound by the contracts. The affidavit also states
appellant's belief that it would have received more such
letters had it not been for its circulation of information
concerning the pendency of this suit.
Accepting the allegations of the complaint as true, as
for present purposes we must, it is evident that applicacation by the Commission of its regulations in accordance
with their terms would disrupt appellant's broadcasting system and seriously disorganize its business. As the
bill alleges, station licenses have been renewable by the
Commission annually,2 whereas appellant's contracts are
for five year periods and many of them will survive the
expiration of the existing licenses to the affiliated stations.
Under Regulations 3.101, 3.102, 3.103 and 3.104, each affiliOn October 11, 1941, the Commission amended Regulation 3.34 to

make the normal license period two years.

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

415

Opinion of the Court.

ate must repudiate his contract or be denied the renewal
of his license. In either case, this would deprive appellant
of the station's participation in its network, for which its
contracts call.
Regulation 3.104 not only requires all options by appellant to be exercised on 56 days' rather than 28 days'
notice as at present, but provides: that no option time is
exclusive of other networks, and thus allows to appellant
no option time within which it can command the use of
affiliated stations for any program for broadcasting on a
national scale. These sections together thus operate to
break down the network enterprise in which appellant and
its affiliates are by their contracts co6perating, and to substitute a system in which every station is available to every
network on a "first come first served basis."
The Commission concedes by its brief that, as provided
by § 312 (a), "Any station license may be revoked
because of conditions revealed by such statements of fact
as may be required [of a licensee] from time to time which
would warrant the Commission in refusing to grant a hicense on an original application." Consequently the regulations by their terms, read in conjunction with § 312 (a),
expose licensees, who renew their affiliation contracts, to
revocation proceedings by the Commission whenever,
upon a statement which the Commission may require,
it appears that the licensee has entered into an affiliation
contract which the regulations proscribe.
A proceeding to set aside an order of the Commission
under § 402 (a) and the Urgent Deficiencies Act is a plenary suit in equity. Hence the questions raised by the
motion to dismiss are whether the Commission's order is
an "order," review of which is authorized by § 402 (a) of
the Act, and if so whether the bill states a cause of action in
equity. The suit cannot be maintained unless both questions are answered in the affirmative.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

Section 402 (a) makes applicable the provisions of the
Urgent Deficiencies Act to "suits to enforce, enjoin, set
aside, annul, or suspend any order of the Commission"
except orders "granting or refusing an application for a
construction permit for a radio station, or for a radio
station license, or for renewal of an existing radio station license, or for modification of an existing radio station
license, or suspending a radio operator's license." Review
of the orders excepted from § 402 (a) is by appeal to the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia under the
provisions of § 402 (b). See Scripps-Howard Radio v.
Federal Communications Comm'n, ante, p. 4. Since the
Commission's order neither grants, denies nor modifies
any license; any review in advance or independently of an
application for a station license must be under § 402 (a),
and then only if the Commission's order promulgating the
regulations is an "order" within the meaning of this section. The particular label placed upon it by the Commission is not necessarily conclusive, for it is the substance
of what the Commission has purported to do and has done
which is decisive. Powell v. United States, 300 U. S.276,
284-85; A. F. of L. v. Labor Board, 308 U. S. 401,408.
The Commission's investigation of the contractual relations between the networks and the stations, which resulted in the order now under attack, was for the stated
purpose of prescribing regulations of such relationships.
The order authorizing the investigation recited that the
proceeding was taken under § 303 (i) of the Act, which
gives the Commission "authority to make special regulations applicable to radio stations engaged in chain broadcasting." Since the Commission is not in terms given
authority to regulate contractual relations between the
stations and the networks, regulation of them could be
accomplished only by regulating licensed radio stations
which participate in chain broadcasting. It was by regulations in terms applicable to such stations that the Corn-

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

417

Opinion of the Court.

mission sought to control their contractual relationships
with the networks.
The order is thus in its genesis and on its face, and in
its practical operation, an order promulgating regulations
which operate to control such contractual relationships,
and it was adopted by the Commission in the avowed exercise of its rule-making power. Such regulations which
affect or determine rights generally, even though not
directed to any particular person or corporation, when
lawfully promulgated by the Interstate Commerce Commission, have the force of law and are orders reviewable
under the Urgent Deficiencies Act. Assigned Car Cases,
274 U. S. 564; United States v. B. & 0. R. Co., 293 U. S.
454. And regulations of like character, by which the
Communications Commission has prescribed generally the
records and accounts to be kept by telephone companies
subject to its jurisdiction, are similarly reviewable under
§ 402 (a). A. T. & T. Co. v. UnitedStates, 299 U. S. 232.
The regulations here prescribe rules which govern the
contractual relationships between the stations and the
networks. If the applicant for a license has entered into
an affiliation contract, the regulations require the Commission to reject his application. If a licensee renews his
contract, the regulations, with the sanction of § 312 (a),
authorize the Commission to cancel his license. In a
proceeding for revocation or cancellation of a license, the
decisive question is whether the station, by entering into
a contract, has forfeited its right to a license as the regulations prescribe. It is the signing of the contract which,
by virtue of the regulations alone, has legal consequences
to the stations and to appellant. The regulations are not
any the less reviewable because their promulgation did
not operate of their own force to deny or cancel a license.
It is enough that failure. to comply with them penalizes
licensees, and appellant, with whom they contract. If an
administrative order has that effect it is reviewable and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

does not cease to be so. merely because it is not certain
whether the Commission will institute proceedings to enforce the penalty incurred under its regulations for noncompliance. Assigned Car Cases, supra; A. T. & T. Co.
v. United States, supra.
The regulations are rules which in proceedings before
the Commission require it to reject and authorize it to cancel licenses on the grounds specified in the regulations
without more. If the regulktions are valid they alter the
.status of appellant's contracts and thus determine their
validity in advance of such proceedings. By striking
them down by a determination proclaimed in advance
that licenses shall be cancelled or refused because of a
previous failure to comply with the regulations, they impose a penalty and sanction for noncompliance far more
drastic than the fines customarily inflicted for breach of
reviewable administrative orders.
Most rules of conduct having the force of law are not
self-executing but require judicial or administrative action
to impose their sanctions with respect to particular individuals., Unlike an administrative order or a court
judgment adjudicating the rights of individuals, which is
binding only on the parties to the particular proceeding,
a valid exercise of the rule-making power is addressed to
and sets a standard of conduct for all to whom its terms
apply. It operates as such in advance of the imposition
of sanctions upon any particular individual. It is common experience that men conform their conduct to regulations by governmental authority so as to avoid the
unpleasant legal consequences which failure to conform
entails. And in this case it is alleged without contradiction that numerous affiliated stations have conformed to
the regulations to avoid loss of their licenses with co~isequent injury to appellant.
Such regulations have the force of law before their sanctions are invoked as well as after. When, as here, they

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

are promulgated by order of the Commission and the expected conformity to them causes injury cognizable by a
court of equity, they are appropriately the subject of attack under the provisions of § 402 (a) and the Urgent
Deficiencies Act. A. T. & T. Co. v. United States, supra;
Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S.
125; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit
Co., 224 U. S. 194; Kansas City. So. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 231 U. S. 423; Assigned Car Cases, supra;Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S. 80; United
States v. B. & 0. R. Co., supra. '
It is no answer to say that the regulations are addressed
only to the Commission and merely prohibit it from granting-and authorize it to cancel-licenses in the case of all
stations entering into such contracts, and that accordingly all stations are left free to enter into contracts or not, as
they choose. They are free only in the sense that all
those who do not choose to conform to regulations which
may be determined to be lawful are free by their choice
to accept the legal consequences of their acts. Failure to
comply with the regulations entails such consequences to
the station owner and to appellant. These are the loss
of- the affiliated stations' licenses if they adhere to their
contracts, and disruption of appellant's network through
the declared unlawfulness of the contracts, if the regulations are valid.
The purposes sought to be accomplished by §402 (a)
and the Urgent Deficiencies Act would be defeated if a
suitor were unable to resort to them to avoid reasonably
anticipated, irreparable injury resulting from such legal
consequences of the Commission's order, merely because
the Commission as yet has neither refused to renew a
license, as the regulations require, nor cancelled a license,
s the regulations permit. Such an argument addressed
to the form rather than the substance of the order was
rejected in Powell v. United States; supra [300 U. S. 276];

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

cf. A. F. of L. v. Labor Board, supra, 308 U. S. 408. The
Powell case likewise repudiates the suggestion that, merely
because the order is not in terms addressed to those whose
rights are affected, they cannot seek its review. See also
Western Pacific R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 284 U. S.
47; Claiborne-AnnapolisFerry Co. v. United States, 285
U. S. 382.
The order here is not one, as the Government argues
and as the court below seemed to think, where the complainant's rights are affected only on the contingency of
future administrative action, as in United States v. Los
Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 273 U. S. 299; cf. Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, supra, 307 U. S. 130. As
the Court declared in the Los. Angeles case, 309, 310, reviewable orders are "an exercise either of the quasi-judicial
function of determining controversies or of the delegated
legislative function of rate making and rule making."
And the Court pointed out that the "so-called order" in
that case did not "determine any right or obligation" or
change the plaintiff's "existing or future status or condition," and that it was "merely the formal record of conclusions reached after a study of data collected in the
course of extensive research conducted by the Commission" and "is the exercise solely of the function of investigation."
Here the Commission exercised its rule-making power
by adopting regulations whose operation is not made subject to future administrative determinations, save only as
the Commission may be called on to decide in any given
case whether a station's contract with a network is within
the regulations. The regulations' applicability to all who
are within their terms does not depend upon future administrative action. Instead, they operate to control such
action and to determine in advance the rights of others
affected by it. The Commission gave its own recognition

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

that such is their operation by its successive postponements of the effective date of the order for a period now
expired, and by its suspension of Regulations 3.106 and
3.107, in order to enable the networks to dispose of their
properties.
. Of course, the Commission was at liberty to follow a
wholly different procedure. Instead of proclaiming general regulations applicable to all licenses, in advance of
any specific contest over a license, it might have awaited
such a contest to declare that the policy which these regulations embody represents its concept of the public interest. As a matter of sound administrative practice
both the rule-making proceeding and the specific license
proceeding undoubtedly have much to commend them.
But they are by no means the same, nor do they necessarily
give rise to the same kind of judicial review. Having
adopted this order under its rule-making power, the Commission cannot insist that the appellant be relegated to
that judicial review which would be exclusive if the rulemaking power had never been exercised and consequently
had never subjected appellant to the threatened irreparable injury.
-The court below assumed that if appellant had any
equitable cause of action, it must be prosecuted in an ordinary suit and not under the provisions of the Urgent
Deficiencies Act. But we think this mistakes both the
nature of the regulations and the purpose of suits under
that Act, as incorporated in § 402 (a). Such a cause of
action obviously can arise only because of the operation
of the regulations. The regulations are the effective implement by which the injury complained of is wrought,
and hence must be the object of the attack. It is because
they are an exercise of the rule-making power, and because they presently determine rights on the basis of which
the Commission is required to withhold licenses and au-

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the. Court.

316 U. S.

thorized to cancel them, that there is an order within the
meaning of § 402 (a) and the Urgent Deficiencies Act.
The Commission argues that, since its Report characterized the regulations as announcements of policy, the
order promulgating them is no more subject to review than
a press release similarly announcing its policy. Undoubtedly, regulations adopted in the exercise of the administrative rule-making power, like laws enacted by legislatures, embody announcements of policy. But they may
be something more.. When, as here, the regulations are
avowedly adopted in the exercise of that power, couched
in terms of command and accompanied by an announcement of the Commission that the policy is one "which we
will follow in exercising our licensing power," they must
be taken by those entitled to-rely upon them as what they
purport to be-an exercise of the delegated legislative
power--which, until amended, are controlling alike upon
the Commission and all others whose rights may be
affected by the Commission's execution of them. The
Commission's contention that the regulations are no more
reviewable than a press release is hardly reconcilable with
its own recognition that the regulations afford legal basis
for cancellation of the license of a station if it renews its
contract with appellant.,
Appellant's standing to maintain the present suit in
equity is unaffected by the fact that the regulations are
not directed to appellant and do not in terms compel action by it or impose penalties upon it because of its action
or failure to act. It is enough that, by setting the controlling standards for the Commission's action, the regulations purport.to operate to alter and affect adversely
appellant's contractual rights and business relations with
station owners whose applications for licenses the regulations will cause to be rejected and whose licenses the
regulations may cause to be revoked. Chicago Junction
Case, 264 U. S. 258, 266-68; Western Pacific R. Co. v.

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

Southern Pacific Co., supra; Claiborne-AnnapolisFerry
Co. v. United States, supra;compare, in the case of an attack upon the validity of a statute, Truax v. Raich, 239
U. S. 33, 38-39; Piercev. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510.
What we have said of the allegations of the complaint,
and of the effect of the Commission's order if those allegations are sustained upon the trial, is enough to establish
the threat of irreparable injury to appellant's business and
to show also that the injury can not be avoided, as the
Commission suggests, by appellant's intervention in proceedings upon applications for renewal of licenses by its
affiliates or in proceedings to cancel their licenses, if and
when such proceedings are instituted. Appellant has sufficiently alleged that the affiliates are cancelling or threatening to cancel their contracts in order to conform to the
regulations. It is to avoid the irreparable injury which
would result from such wholesale cancellations of its contracts, induced by the force of the regulations, that appellant makes its attack on them now rather than in later
proceedings on the individual applications for licenses in
those cases, if any, in which the stations are willing to
seek licenses without complying with the prerequisites laid
-down by the regulations.
The issues in such a proceeding are not necessarily the
same as the issues here. Intervention in it would afford
appellant no assurance either of an adjudication of appellant's contentions or that the action of other stations
would be governed by it. Moreover, if the Commission's
order is, as we hold, a reviewable order, appellant is free
to seek review under § 402 (a). It is not thereby, as
the court below seemed to think, improperly substituting
a different procedure and court for that which Congress
has prescribed for the trial of like issues so far as they may
be raised on review of an order denying a license. Such
issues may likewise be involved in a proceeding, upon the
Commission's own motion, for modification or cancellation

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

of a license, which concededly is reviewable under § 402
(a). SeeScripps-HowardRadio v. Federal Communications Comm'n, ante, p. 4. But review of the order by a
licensee in such a proceeding affords no adequate remedy.
If ever instituted, which is uncertain, it would come too
late to save appellant from the injury wrought by the outlawry of its contracts.
Nor does the Commission's minute, filed after the present suit was brought, afford an adequate basis for requiring appellant to seek relief by intervention in a proceeding
on application for a license reviewable under § 402 (b).
In that event the minute would not operate to broaden
the issues involved in the renewal application. Nor would
it afford a basis for restraining enforcement of the regulations as to other affiliated stations, pending adjudication of the validity of the regulations. Without full exploration of the subject, such as can be had only at the
trial, we cannot say that the minute will afford a sufficient
inducement to persuade the affiliated stations to cease
cancellations and assume the initiative in litigating the
validity of the regulations and of the contracts which they
undertake to condemn. The affidavit, filed in the court
below on the application for a stay is to the contrary.
And in any case, we are of the opinion that there are no
equitable principles by which the right of appellant, upon
the showing made by its complaint and affidavit, to test
the order under § 402 (a) can justly bl suspended to await
action which the station owners may or may not take in
assuming the burden of challenging the regulations.
.We need not stop to discuss here the great variety of
administrative rulings which, unlike this one, are not
reviewable-either because they do not adjudicate rights
or declare them legislatively, or because there are adequate
administrative remedies which must be pursued before
resorting to judicial remedies, or because there is no occasion to resort to equitable remedies. But we should

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

not for that reason fail to discriminate between them and
this case in which, because of its peculiar circumstances,
all the elements prerequisite to judicial review are present. The ultimate test of reviewability is not to be found
in an overrefined technique, but in the need of the review
to protect from the irreparable injury threatened in the
exceptional case by administrative rulings which attach
legal consequences to action taken in advance of other
hearings and adjudications that may follow, the results of
which the regulations purport to control.
We conclude that the Commission's promulgation of the
regulations is an order reviewable under § 402 (a) of the
Act, and that the bill of complaint states a cause of action
in equity. The stay now in effect will be continued, on
terms to be settled by the court below.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
Orders and regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission, considered in the foregoing opinion 'f the
Court:
ORDER OF MAY 2, 1941, AS AMENDED OCTOBER 11, i941

Now, therefore, it is hereby ordered, That the following
regulations be and they are hereby adopted:
SEC. 3.101. Exclusive affiliation of station.-No license
shall be granted to a standard broadcast station having
any contract, arrangement, or understanding, express or
implied, with a network organization under which the
station is prevented or hindered from, or penalized for,
broadcasting the programs of any other network organization '
SEC. 3.102. Territorialexclusivity.-No license shall be
granted to a standard broadcast station having any contract, arrangement, or understanding, express or implied,
with a network organization which prevents or hinders

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

another station serving substantially the same area from
broadcasting the network's programs not taken by the former station, or which prevents or hinders another station
serving a substantially different area. from broadcasting
any program of the network organization. This regulation shall not be construed to prohibit any contract, arrangement, or understanding between a station and a network organization pursuant to which the station is granted
the first call in its primary service area Upon the programs
of the network organization.
SEC. 3.103. Term of affiliation.-No license shall be
granted to a standard broadcast station having any contract, arrangement, or understanding, expressed or implied, with a network organization which provides, by
original term, provisions for renewal, or otherwise for
the affiliation of the station with the network organization for a period longer than two years: Provided, That
a contract, arrangement, or understanding for a period
up to two years, may be entered into within 120 days prior
to the commencement of such period.
SEc. 3.104. Option time.-No license shall be granted to
a standard broadcast station which options for network
programs any time subject to call on less than 56 days'
notice, or more time than a total of three hours within each
of four segments of the broadcast day, as herein described.
The broadcast day is divided into 4 segments, as follows:
8:00 a. m. to 1.00p. m.; 1:00p. m. to 6:00p. m.; 6:00 p.m.
to 11:00 p. in.; 11:00 p. m. to 8:00 a. m. Such options
may not be exclusive as against other network organizations and may not prevent or hinder the station from optioning orselling any or all of the time covered by the option, or other time, to other network organizations.
SEc. 3.105. Right to reject programs.-No license shall
be granted to a standard broadcast station having any
contract, arrangement, or understanding, express or implied, with a network organization which (a), with respect
to programs offered pursuant to an affiliation contract,
prevents or hinders the station from rejecting or refusing
network programs which the station reasonably believes
to be unsatisfactory or unsuitable; or which (b), with
respect to network programs so offered or already con-

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

Opinion of the Court.

tracted for, prevents the station from rejecting or refusing any program which, in its opinion, is contrary to the
public interest, or from substituting a program of outstanding local or national importance.
SEc. 3.106. Network ownership of stations.-No license
shall be granted to a network organization, or to any person directly or indirectly controlled by or under common
control with a network organization, for more than one
standard broadcast station where one of the stations covers
substantially the service area of the other station, or for
any standard broadcast station in any locality where the
existing standard broadcast stations are so few or of such
unequal desirability (in terms of coverage, power, frequency, or other related matters) that competition would
be substantially restrained by such licensing.
SEC. 3.107. Dual network operation.-No license shall
be issued to a standard broadcast station affiliated with a
network organization which maintains more than one network: Provided, That this regulation shall not be applicable if such networks are not operated simultaneously,
or if there is no substantial overlap in the territory served
by the group of stations comprising each such network.
SEC. 3.108. Control by networks of station rates. - No
license shall be granted to a standard broadcast station
having any contract, arrangement, or understanding, express or implied, with a network organization under which
the station is prevented or hindered from, or penalized for,
fixing or altering its rates for the sale of broadcast time for
other than the network's programs..
[Effective date.]. These regulations shall become effective immediately: Provided, That, with respect to existing contracts, arrangements or understandings, or network organization station licenses, the effective date shall
be deferred until November 15, 1941: Provided further,
That the effective date of Regulation 3.106 with respect to
any station may be extended from time to time in order
to permit the orderly disposition of properties; and Provided further, That the effective date of Regulation 3.107
shall be suspended indefinitely and any further order of
the Commission placing said Regulation 3.107 -ineffect
shall provide for not less than six months' notice and for

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

further extension of the effective date from time to time
in order to permit the orderly disposition of properties.
THE MINUTE OF OCTOBER 31, 1941

The Commission today adopted the following minute
setting forth the procedure that it will follow in applying
the policies announced in the Chain Broadcasting Regulations:
If a station wishes to contest the validity of the Chain
Broadcasting Regulations adopted in Docket No. 5060,
or the reasonableness of their application to the particular station, its license will be set for hearing. In order to
insure that the station may remain on the air and be in no
way injured by any such Commission proceeding and
appeal to court from a decision in such proceeding, the
Commission will grant such licensee a temporary extension of its license, with renewals from time to time until
there has been a final determination of the issues raised
at such hearing. In the event of such litigation, and if
the validity of the application of the Chain Broadcasting
Regulations to such licensee is sustained by the courts,
the Commission will nevertheless grant a regular license
to the licensee, otherwise entitled thereto, who has unsuccessfully litigated that issue, if the licensee thereupon
conforms to the decision.
The supplementary decision and order in Docket No.
5060 indefinitely suspended Regulation 3.107, relating to
the operation of more than one network by a single network organization. ,No similar suspension was made of
that portion of Regulation 3.106, relating to network operation of more than one standard broadcast station with
substantially overlapping service areas. The Commission
will postpone indefinitely any action to prevent such dual
*station operation if it is shown that the operation of two
stations in any city is indispensable to the continued operation of two networks by a single network organization.
The adoption of the foregoing procedure is without prejudice to the rights of any person who may petition the
Commission for modification or stay of the Chain Broadcasting Regulations.,

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

FRANKFRTE, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

The criteria governing judicial review of "orders" under
the Urgent Deficiencies Act were defined by a unanimous
Court in United States v. Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 273
U. S. 299, 309-10: "The so-called order here complained
of is one which does not command the carrier to do, or to
refrain from doing, any thing; which does not grant or
withhold any authority, privilege or license; which does
not extend or abridge any power or facility; which does
not subject the carrier to any liability, civil or criminal;
which does not change the carrier's existing or future
status or condition; which does not determine any right
or obligation." If "broadcasting company" were substituted for "carrier," this analysis of the legal consequences
of the action of the Interstate Commerce Commission in
the Los Angeles case would fit perfectly the legal consequences of the action of the Federal Communications
Commission in making public the challenged regulations.
The fact that an action of an administrative agency
occasions even irreparable loss does not in itself afford
sufficient grounds for judicial review. Even if the Commission committed a wrong, the question of judicial reviewability still remains that put in the Los Angeles case,
273 U. S. at 313, to wit, is it "a wrong for which Congress
provides a remedy under the Urgent Deficiencies Act" of
October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 208, 219, as incorporated in § 402
(a) of the Communications Act of 1934?
For Congress has not authorized resort to the federal
courts merely because someone feels aggrieved, howevei
deeply, by an action of the Federal Communications Commission. A District Court of the United States can take
a case only when Congress has authorized that type of
case to be taken. Congress did not leave opportunity for
reviewing damaging action by the Federal Communica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FtANxFRTER, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

tions Commission to the general equity powers of the district courts. It circumscribed the power of the courts in
relation to the Commission in the most detailed way.
Its incorporation by reference, in the Communications Act
of 1934, of the scope of review allowed in reviewing an
"order" of the Interstate Commerce Commission gave all
the precise, definite, and technical'boundaries which the
concept of a reviewable "order" had acquired through the
decisions of this Court prior to the enactment of the Communications Act. The precise requirements of an "order"
of the Commission for purposes of judicial review are
therefore as inflexible as though they were written into
the Act itself.
Our problem, then, is this: Does the issuance of the
chain broadcasting regulations constitute an "order" reviewable in a proceeding brought under § 402(a) of the
Communications Act, in the light of the settled rules for
determining what such an "order" is when a determination
of the Interstate Commerce Commission is made the basis
of judicial review. It is therefore necessary to put out of
mind what this case is not. It is not the invocation of
equity jurisdiction in order to avoid threatened irreparable
harm resulting from the criminal enforcement of an unconstitutional statute, as in Pierce v. Society of Sisters,
268 U. S. 510. Nor do we have here a resort to equity because it is essential for the protection of asserted rights
that criminal prosecutions unauthorized by law be restrained, as in Shields v. Utah Idaho R. Co., 305 U. S. 177,
183.
In promulgating these regulations the Communications
Commission merely announced its conception of one aspect of the public interest, namely, the relationship of
certain provisions in network-affiliation contracts to the
obligation of a station licensee to render the most effective
service to the listening public. The regulations themselves

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

431

FRNxUYRm, J., dissenting.

determine no rights. They alter the status of neither the
networks nor licensees. As such they require nobodyneither the networks, the licensees, nor the Commissionto do anything. They are merely an announcement to
the public of what tlhe Commission intends to do in passing upon future applications for station licenses. No action of the stations or the networks can violate the regulations, for there is nothing the regulations require them to
do or refrain from doing.
Announcements of general policies intended to be followed by administrative agencies customarily take any
one of various forms. Sometimes they are noted in the
agency's annual report to Congress, sometimes in a public
announcement or press release, and sometimes, as was the
case here, they are published as "rules" or "regulations."
See Final Report of the Attorney General's Committee on
Administrative Procedure (1941), pp. 26-27. But whatever form such announcements may take, their nature and
effect is thesame. The reason why the Commission formulated its chain broadcasting policy in the form of a "regulation" is given in its report: "We believe that the
announcement of the principles we intend to apply in exercising our licensing power will expedite business and
further the ends of justice. . . . Good administrative
practice would seem to demand that such a statement of
policy or rules and regulations be promulgated wherever
sufficient information is available upon which they may
be based." Report on Chain Broadcasting, Federal Communications Commission, Order No..37, Docket No. 5060,
p. 85.
With respect to its jurisdiction overmatters relating .t
radio broadcasting, the Communications Commission is
essentially a licensing agency. Its regulatory power over
the industry is derived, for the most part, from its authority to grant and withhold station licenses. Under § 309

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFYRTER,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

of the Communications Act of 1934 the Commission is
required to examine each application for a station license
and to determine in each case whether a grant would serve
public interest, convenience, or necessity. As was noted
in Federal Communications Commission v. Pottsville
Broadcasting Co., 309 U. S. 134, 138, the Act "expresses
a desire on the part of Congress to maintain, through
appropriate administrative control, a grip on the dynamic
aspects of radio transmission." To that end, Congress
established an administrative procedure under which the
Commission must make a specific determination in each
case whether the public interest would be served by
granting the particular application before it. No announcement of general licensing policy can relieve the
Commission of its statutory obligation to examine each
application for a license and determine whether a grant
or denial is required by the public interest.
The Commission recognized this fact in issuing these
regulations. It explicitly stated that a determination of
the requirements of the public interest will, in spite of
the regulations, still have to be made in passing upon
particular applications: "Announcements of policy may
take the form of regulations or of general public statements. In either case, the applicant's right to a hearing on the question whether he does in fact propose to
operate in the public interest is fully preserved. The
regulations we are adopting are nothing more than the
expression of the general policy we will follow in exercising our.licensing power. The formulation of a regulation in general terms is an important aid to consistency
and predictability and does not prejudice any rights of
the applicant." Report on Chain Broadcasting, supra,
p. 85.
Subsequent to the promulgation of the regulations, the
Commission found that substantial modifications were
necessary. In its supplemental report on these amend-

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

FRANKFURTER,

J.,. dissenting.

ments, the Commission gave further evidence of the flexible nature of the regulations: "The Commission stands
ready at all times to amend and modify its regulations
upon the petition of any network, national or regional,
or any station or group of stations if it can be shown that
those regulations prevent profitable network operations,
or unduly disturb any aspect of broadcasting, or that because of special or changed circumstances the chain broadcasting regulations should not be applicable to any
particular situation." Moreover, in its Minute of October
31, 1941, designed primarily to protect the interests of
station licensees who contest the validity of the regulations, the Commission again made it abundantly clear
that the regulations were not final: "If a station wishes
to contest the validity of the Chain Broadcasting Regulations . . ., or the reasonableness of their application
to the particular station, its license will be set for
hearing."
The regulations do not, therefore; commit the Commission to any definitive course of action in passing upon applications for licenses. Consistently with the regulations
(and, parenthetically, consistently with the authority of
the Commission to depart from general regulations where
such departure is in the public interest, see Radio Commission v. Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266, 285), the Commission is free to dilute them with amendments and
exceptions. The construction of the regulations and their
application to particular situations is still in the hands of
the Commission. Administrative adjudication is still
open. Before its completion it is not ripe for judicial
review.
The characteristics of the administrative determinations
in all the cases on which the Court's opinion relies were
wholly different. In each one the force of the law, either
through criminal prosecution or.injunction or fine or some
other judicial remedy, could immediately be brought to.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFURTR,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

bear to enforce the command of the administrative agency.
In none of the cases was an administrative action held
reviewable which in itself entailed no immediate legal
consequences.
Thus, in the Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S. 564, suit was
brought under the Urgent Deficiencies Act to annul an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing
'for all railroads within its jurisdiction a rule governing
distribution of cars for the transportation of bituminous
coal. Under § 402 of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41
Stat. 456, 476, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (12) (14), the carriers were
required "to make just and reasonable distribution of
cars," and the Commission was authorized to "establish
reasonable rules, regulations, and practices with respect
to car service by carriers by railroad." Failure of a carrier
to comply with such regulations issued by the Commission
was declared unlawful, subjecting the carrier to a fine of
$100 for each offense. Since the order of the Commission
commanded carriers to take specified actions, and since
the failure to comply with the order would bring immediate legal sanctions, the order was held reviewable.
Similarly, in United States v. B. & 0. R. Co., 293 U. S.
454, the Interstate Commerce Commission required railroads subject to its jurisdiction to equip locomotives with
a suitable type of power-operated reverse gear. The Boiler
Inspection Act, 36 Stat. 913, 916, expressly provided that
violation by a carrier of any rule or regulation issued by
the Commission under the Act was punishable. by a fine
recoverable in a civil action. A suit under the Urgent
'Deficiencies Act to set aside the Commission's order was
therefore entertained.
A. T. & T. Co. v. United States, 299 U. S. 232, was asuit
under § 402 (a) of the Communications Act of 1934, the
same provision upon which jurisdiction of the present litigation is based, to set aside an order of the Federal Communications Commission prescribing a uniform system of

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. If. S.
407

435

FRANxtmuRa, J., dissenting.

accounts for telephone companies within the Act. Section
220 (a) authorized the Commission to prescribe such
forms of accounts, and § 220 (d) made the failure or refusal of a company to keep accounts in the manner prescribed by the Commission unlawful, punishable by a $500
forfeiture for each day of the continuance of the offense.
Because of the legal sanctions immediately attaching
upon its violation, the order was held reviewable.
In Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit
Co., 224 U. S. 194, the Commission, under the authority
vested in it by § 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act, issued
orders prescribing forms of accounts, records, and memoranda and calling for annual reports of carriers by water.
Section 20 (7) made it unlawful for such carriers to keep
any accounts other than those prescribed by the Commission. A suit to set aside the orders was therefore entertained. Similarly, in KansasCity So. Ry. v. UnitedStates,
231 U. S.423, suit was brought to annul regulations of the
Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing a uniform
bookkeeping and accounting system for interstate railway
carriers. Since carriers who failed to keep accounts as ordered by the regulations were subject to penalties under
§ 20 (7) of the Act, jurisdiction was taken. And in Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. United,States, 284 U. S.80, the
Interstate Commerce Commission prescribed car-hire settlement rules governing use by common carriers of each
other's cars. Violation of such rules by carriers was declared unlawful and subject to fines. Consequently, a
suit to set aside the rules was entertained.
Of course, the mere fact that an administrative order
determines a status does not mean that it is not reviewable. If an administrative determination of status has
the effect of subjecting a person to legal obligations,
whether embodied in statute or previously formulated
administrative commands, or otherwise affecting legal
rights, such a determination possesses the elements of a

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANnRmTE,

J., dissenting.

316 U.S.

reviewable order. Thus, in Rochester Telephone Corp.
v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, the Federal Communications Commission had issued orders requiring all telephone carriers subject to the Communications Act of 1934
to file schedules of their charges, copies of contracts with
other carriers, etc. Section 203 (e) of the Act provides
that a carrier which fails or refuses to comply with such
rules of the Commission shall forfeit $500 for each offense,
and $25 for each day of its continuance. After investigation and hearing, the Commission determined that the
Rochester Telephone Corporation was a telephone carrier
subject to the Act and therefore subject to the previously
promulgated general orders directed to carriers within the
Commission's jurisdiction. "The order of the Communications Commission in this case was therefore reviewable.
It was not a mere abstract declaration regarding the status
of the Rochester under the Communications Act, nor was
it a stage in an incomplete process of administrative adjudication. The contested order determining the status of
the Rochester necessarily and immediately carried direction of obedience to previously formulated mandatory
orders addressed generally to all carriers amenable to the
Commission's authority. Into this class of carriers the
order under dispute covered the Rochester, and by that
fact, in conjunction with the other orders, made determination of the status of the Rochester a reviewable order
of the Commission." Rochester Telephone Corp. v.
United States, 307 U. S. at 143-44. Compare A. F. of L.
v. Labor Board, 308 U. S. 401, 408. Unlike the action
taken by the Federal Communications Commission in the
Rochester case, its action here carried no directions of
obedience of any kind to anyone.
It is said that the regulations derive legal effect through
§ 312 (a) giving the Commission authority to revoke
licenses, and that "by virtue of the regulations alone,"
the networks and their affiliates are now subjected to legal

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

FRANKFUHTi,

J., dissenting.

detriment. But this is merely another way of phrasing
the main contention that the regulations at once and without further action by the Commission release legal sanctions. But the regulations have no such effect. To be
sure, the Commission can revoke a station license "because of conditions revealed by such statements of fact
as may be required from time to time which would warrant the Commission in refusing to grant a license on an
original application." But the Commission may never
require a licensee to file a statement of fact under § 312
(a); its provisions may therefore never come into operation. In any event, the regulations as such do not subject licensees to any sanctions. A license can be revoked
under § 312 (a) because of the licensee's failure to operate its station in the public interest, as required by the
statute. The regulations adopted by the Commission
cannot operate to revoke any licenses. It is only after
a proceeding has been started (in which the licensee is entitled to a hearing during which the revocation order is
suspended) and adversely concluded against a party that
legal sanctions come into play-the Commission can bring
proceedings to enforce its order of revocation and, correspondingly, the licensee can bring suit under § 402 (a)
challenging the validity of the Commission's termination
of the license.
Section 502 of the Communications Act provides that
the violation of "any rule, regulation, restriction, or condition made or imposed by the Commission under authority of this Act" shall be a criminal offense. Would the
renewal by a licensee of its network-affiliation contract
subject it to the criminal penalties imposed by § 502?
Obviously not, for the regulations do not forbid a licensee
from taking that or any other action. And, for the same
reason, a license could not be revoked under the provision
of § 312 (a) which authorizes revocation "for violation

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKFUnTER,

J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

any regulation of the Commission authorized by this Act. . . ." If the Commission
had issued regulations, which ordered licensees to do or
refrain from doing something, the problem would be entirely different. Violation by a licensee of such a regulation would be grounds for revocation of its license, under
§ 312 (a), and for the imposition of criminal penalties,
under § 502. And, the other requisites being present,
such a regulation could be reviewed as a final administrative determination.
This leaves only the suggestion that since the action
taken by the Commission, although not the completion
of its adjudicatory process, nevertheless drastically affects
substantial business interests, it is proper for the courts to
intercede at this stage. Even if this argument were to be
considered as if it had never before been made to and
rejected by this Court, its infirmities are obvious. As a
practical matter, the impact upon the business operations of the networks and their affiliated stations would
probably be as disturbing as if the policies formulated
in the regulations had been expressed through a press
release, or if only the report, which is not only the foundation of the regulations but also embodies them, had
been published without the regulations which are only
the summary of the report, or if Congress itself had
incorporated these regulations into the text of the Communications Act. It will hardly be argued that any of
these steps could be the subject of judicial review before the Commission acted upon particular applications.
But assume that the greater formality given to the
announcement of the Commission's statement of policy
through the regulations intensified the practical business
consequences. Congress has not conferred upon the district courts jurisdiction over "practical business consequences." They can review action of administrative

of or failure to observe

. . .

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

FR&Nx

439

mm, J., dissenting.

agencies only when there is an "order," and when Congress in § 402 (a) made only an "order" of the Communications Commission reviewable, it incorporated the settled
doctrine established by an unbroken series of decisions
in this Court that the courts could review only a final
determination by an agency whereby its administrative
process has been concluded.
This is not the first time that the federal courts have
been urged to sit in judgment upon "practical business
consequences" where the action to be reviewed did not
represent the final stage of administrative adjudication.
The arguments made in this case have been made in
the past but heretofore have always been rejected by this
Court. The classic formulation and application of the
doctrine of finality as to orders under the Urgent Deficiencies Act was contained in United States v. Los
Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 273 U. S. 299. In view of the
thoroughness of the argument at the bar, and the weightifiess of the opinion, that case has ever since been regarded
as furnishing the guideposts in this field of law. It should
govern here.
Suit was brought there to annul and enjoin an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission determining the
final valuation for rate-making purposes of the Los
Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad Company, which operated
a thousand miles of railroad lines. The valuation fixed
by the Commission was $45,200,000; the carrier claimed
that, if the Commission had employed proper standards
of valuation, the figure would be $70,000,000, a difference
of $24,800,000. At the time suit was brought, approximately 250,000 miles of railroad lines throughout the
country were undergoing valuation. The validity of the
criteria employed by the Commission in the case of the
Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad Company was therefore of enormous national significance. In the words of

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKUhTER,,J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

Commissioner Eastman, "This case deals with an issue
of greater moment to the country than any that we

have ever determined."

75 I. C. C. 523.

These issues,

-involving 'practically every phase of valuation law, were
canvassed in an adversary proceeding before the Commission lasting nearly a year and a half, resulting in a
report of one hundred and forty pages, and expressed
in a formal "order" of ten pages. Counsel for the railroad company there, as do counsel for the broadcasting
company here, relied upon the practical finality of the

order as a basis for review: "As a practical matter, the
Commission in any and all proceedings in which it has
occasion to use this valuation will give it not prima facie
but conclusive effect. In the valuation proceeding before the Commission which resulted in this order petitioner introduced its evidence of the value of the
properties and the proceeding resulted in a valuation
greatly at variance with the evidence and contentions of
petitioner. No greater effect will be given to evidence
which petitioner may introduce in some future proceeding before the Commission in an attempt to overcome
the prima facie effect accorded by the Act to this valuation order. Therefore, unless and until set aside and
annulled, this valuation will stand as a continuing menace
against petitioner, and may be repeatedly used to petitioner's prejudice in rate, division, consolidation, securityissue and recapture proceedings." Brief for Appellee,
pp. 64-65.
The Court specifically referred to this argument of counsel: "One [argument in support of jurisdiction] is that
since the Commission has by reason of errors of law and of
judgment grossly undervalued the property, its report will,
unless suppressed, injure the credit of the carrier with the
public." Finding, however, that the order did not finally
determine any legal rights,:the Court refused review: "Its
[the Commission's] conclusions, if erroneous in law, may

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

FRxxFNmTER,

J., dissenting.

be disregarded. But neither its utterances, nor its processes of reasoning, as distinguished from its acts, are a
subject for injunction." 273 U. S. at 314-15
To argue that irreparable injury implies reviewability is,
in effect, to contend that there must be a remedy because
the plaintiff claims serious damage. But in these situations--in reviewing "orders" under the Urgent Deficiencies
Act-federal courts can give a remedy only to enforce a
legal right, and a legal right cannot be derived merely by
concluding that a particular claim of hardship should
afford a remedy. While formally we may appear to be
dealing with technicalities, behind these considerations lie
deep issues of policy in the division of authority as between
administrative agencies and courts in carrying out the constitutional will of Congress. The source of the misconception underlying the claim for equitable relief in this
case is the assumption that this is merely an ordinary invocation of equity, as though it were a controversy between
two litigants of which only the courts are or can be seized.
What we are here concerned with is due regard for the
proper distribution made by Congress of legal authority
as between two law-enforcing agencies of government, the
administrative and the judicial. See United States v.
Morgan, 307 U. S.183, 190-91; Federal Communications
Comm'n v. Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S.134.
'To the same effect is United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 244
U. S. 82. There the Interstate Commerce Commission issued an order
fixing the time and place for hearing complaints made by various coal
companles seeking damages against railroads for failing to supply a
sufficient number of coal cars for their shipping needs. The railroads

brought suit under the Urgent Deficiencies Act to annul this order,
alleging that unless the hearing were restrained, the railroads would
be put to enor aous expense and inconvenience. The Court held that
the notice of hearing "had no characteristic of an order, affirmative or
negative," and since it "was a mere incident in the proceeding," the
suit could not be entertained. 244 U. S. at 89.

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANxVUTER, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

This case illustrates anew the influence of a particular

instance of felt hardship in derailing legal principles from
customary tracks. But this is not an isolated case. If
threatened damage through general pronouncement of policy for future administrative action, even if cast in the
formal language of a regulation, is to give rise to equitable
review apart from the rule that judicial review is premature because of want of administrative finality, the same
basis of irreparable harm which is here equated to jurisdiction will bear rich litigious fruit in the case of "regulations"
issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission which
are damaging in their immediate repercussions to stock
exchange and holding companies, or regulations announced by the Treasury for the guidance of taxpayers but
which adversely affect business interests, or regulations by
the Federal Power Commission, etc. Suppose, for example, that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue issues
a ruling that profits derived by radio stations from their
network operations are subject to a tax deemed by them
onerous and illegal. Could a network successfully bring a
suit in equity prior to the imposition of such taxes to invalidate the ruling on the ground that its practical consequence was the cancellation of or refusal to renew network
affiliations? One had supposed that the answer was
clearly nb. But surely in principle the problem is essentially that of the cases before us.
A final consideration remains. We are not dealing with
the reviewability of administrative orders in. vacuo. The
reviewability of an order of the Federal Communications
Commission depends upon the statutory scheme of judicial
review embodied in § 402 of the Communications Act of
1934. Therefore, even if the regulations could bedeemed
to possess the essential attributes of a reviewable order, it
would not inevitably follow that the order is reviewable in
the manner provided for by § 402 (a) of the Act. The
scope and historical background of the provisions for judi-

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

FRAx, FURTE,

J., dissenting.

cial review contained in the Communications Act of 1934
have too recently been canvassed, see Scripps-Howard
Radio v. Federal Communications Comm'n, ante, p. 4;
FederalCommunicationsComm'n v. Columbia'Broadcasting System, 311 U. S. 132; Federal Communications
Comm'n v. Pottsville Broadcasting Co., 309 U. S. 134, to
require detailed consideration here. Briefly, the Act
created two avenues by which orders of the Federal Communications Commission were open to review by the
federal courts. Under § 402 (a), incorporating the provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913,
38 Stat. 208, 219, relating to judicial review of orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, a suit to enforce, set
aside, annul, or suspend an order of the Federal Communications Commission may be brought in a specially
constituted district court, with a right of direct appeal to
this Court, only if the order does not fall within the exceptions enumerated by § 402 (b), namely, orders granting or
denying applications for station licenses or construction
permits and for renewal or modification of licenses. Review of the orders comprehended within § 402 (b) is available only through an appeal to the Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia, with no right of direct appeal
to this Court.
If the regulations do constitute an order, what kind of
an order can it be? It must be in the nature of a blanket
denial, operating in futuro, to be sure, of applications for
renewal of station licenses. But the Act expressly precludes judicial review of orders denying renewal applications of licensees in any manner other than that prescribed
by § 402 (b), to wit, by an appeal to the Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia. As the court below held,
the effect of taking jurisdiction in these cases is to substitute a different court and a different procedure for
those specified by Congress. This Court has not in the
past displayed such an indifference to the particularities

.444

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
FRANKnURTER, J., dissenting.

316 UJS.

of legislation defining the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts. On the contrary, only last Term did the
Court insist upon strict compliance with the statutory
scheme for judicial review established by the Communications Act of 1934. See Federal Communications
Comrh'n v. Columbia Broadcasting System, 311 U. S.
132.
Even if we were free to disregard the scheme for judicial review which Congress has established, I could not
agree that an appeal under § 402 (b) would not be an adequate means for testing the claims made in the present
litigation. There is essentially only one issue on the merits in this proceeding, namely, whether the adoption by
the Commission of the policies expressed in the regulations transgresses its statutory and constitutional authority. But this issue could be raised and fully determined in an appeal under § 402 (b) from an order denying a renewal application. Indeed, in its Minute of October 31, 1941, the Commission explicitly stated that the
validity of the regulations could be put in issue in a
renewal proceeding. If anything, therefore, the issues in
an appeal under § 402 (b) would be broader and not narrower than the issues here. Moreover, since the reasonableness of the application of the regulations to the particular situation would also be in issue in the renewal
proceeding, the reviewing court would have before it a
record containing elements of concreteness and particularity not present in the record now before us.
The Commission's Minute enables a licensee to contest the validity of the regulations, or the reasonableness
of applying them to the particular case, without fear of
losing its license. "In order to insure that the station may
remain on the air and be in no way injured by any such
Commission proceeding [contesting the validity of the
regulations] and appeal to court from a decision in such
proceeding, the Commission will grant such licensee a

COLUMBIA SYSTEM v. U. S.
407

FRANKURTER,

J., dissenting.

temporary extension of its license, with renewals from
time to time until there has been a final determination
of the issues raised at such hearing. In the event of such
litigation, and if the validity of the application of the
Chain Broadcasting Regulations to such licensee is sustained by the courts, the Commission will nevertheless
grant a regular license to the licensee, otherwise entitled
thereto, who has unsuccessfully litigated that issue, if
the licensee thereupon conforms to the decision."
Plainly, therefore, a licensee is under no compulsion
to cancel or modify its affiliation contract. Licensees who
regard the regulations as invalid are free to continue
their existing contracts and at the same time challenge
the regulations in the orderly manner provided by the
'Act-and without any danger of 16sing their right to continue broadcasting. Similarly, the interests of the networks may be protected through intervention in renewal
proceedings. Under the Commission's procedure, Rule
1.102 of the Rules of Practice and Procedure, where a
renewal application is designated for hearing because of
the licensee's contractual arrangements with others, the
latter are customarily permitted to intervene. See, for
example, Application of E. J. Regan and F. Arthur Bostwick, Docket No. 5788; Application of John H. Stenger,
Jr., Docket No. 5430.
We need go no farther than this litigation to perceive
the unfortunate effects of premature judicial review. The
chain broadcasting regulations were issued on May 2,
1941, more than a year ago. They were adopted by the
Commission as a consequence of its finding, after an investigation lasting more than three years, that certain
features of network-affiliation contracts prevented licensees from effectively discharging their obligation to
render the fullest service to the listening public. The
policy formulated by the Commission may or may not be
wise-that is not our concern. But we cannot blink the
fact that this litigation has for more than a year pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
SRANKnRTER, J., dissenting.

316 U. S.

vented the Commission from testing by experience the
practical wisdom of a policy found by it to be required
by the public interest. The commencement of a proceeding under § 402 (b) would not have presented the jurisdictional problems present in this proceeding. Surely
those desirous of a speedy adjudication of the issue of
the validity of the regulations were aware that the com-,
mencement of a proceeding under § 402 (a) would not
produce a prompt adjudication on the merits, but that
it would instead result in postponing for a considerable
period the effective date of the regulations, with all the
contingent advantages afforded by such postponement.
Hardship there may well come through action of an administrative agency. But to slide from recognition of a
hardship to assertion of jurisdiction is once more to assume that only the courts are the guardians of the rights
and liberties of the people. In denying that it had power
to review the action of the Federal Communications Commission because that body had not yet determined a legal
right, the court below, as Judge Learned Hand's opinion
abundantly proves, was not respecting a rule of etiquette.
On the contrary, it merely recognized that the federal
courts are entrusted with the correction of administrative
errors or wrong-doing only to the extent of Congressional
authorization. To say that the courts should reject the
doctrine of administrative finality and take jurisdiction
whenever action of an administrative agency may seriously affect substantial business interests, regardless of
how intermediate or incomplete the action may be, is, in
effect, to imply that the protection of legal interests i§ entrusted solely to the courts. The unbroken current of this
Court's decisions in construing the scope of judicial review under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, and which is the
only warrant for jurisdiction in this case, repels such a
contention. The decision should therefore be affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE REED and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join in this
dissent.

