U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
216

Syllabus.

Atchison case, that this particular transportation service
includes the time-honored opportunity of the consignee or
owner to go to the station and take away his livestock
without payment of an additional toll.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in
this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. UNIVIS LENS CO., INC.

ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 855.

Argued April 9,10,1942.-Decided May 11, 1942.

1. The facts establish venue for this suit in the District Court in which
it was brought. P. 246.
2. Sale by a patent-owner of an article which is capable of use
only in practicing the patent is a relinquishment of the patent
monopoly with respect to that article. P. 249.
3. A patent does not confer the right to control the resale prices of the
patented articles after their sale by the patentee. P. 250.
4. The owner of a patent covering lens blanks (capable of use
only in manufacturing eye glass lenses) and also (as was assumed in this case) covering the process of grinding and polishing them, by which the blanks are converted into finished lenses
for use as eye glasses, devised a licensing -and price-fixing system,
pursuant to which, for a stipulated royatty, one licensee was
authorized to make the blanks and sell them to other licensees,
who in turn were authorized to buy them f om the maker at
prices fid tnd to finish them as lenses according to the patent
and to sell the lenses to other licensees, who were authorized to
sell them to the public-the prices in all cases being those fixed by
the patent owner. The rewards of the patent owner and the
manufacturer of the blanks for the exploitation of the patent and
the patented lenses were derived wholly from the proceeds of
sales of the blanks by the manufacturer, from which proceeds
the royaty was paid. Held:
*Together with No. 856, Univis Lens Co., Inc. et al. v. United States,
also on appeal in6 the District COburt of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

(1) That, with the sale of the lens blanks for use in manufacturing lenses, the patent-owner conferred on the buyer the right to
practice the patent with respect to the blanks and parted with
the right to assert its patent monopoly with respect to them, and
could no longer control the price at which they might be sold
in their unfinished, or their finished, forms. P. 250.
(2) The stipulations for maintenance of prices derived no support
from the patent and must stand on the same footing under the Sherman Act as like stipulations with respect to unpatented commodities.
P. 251.
5. Agreements for maintaining prices of goods in interstate commerce,
including restrictions imposed by the seller upon resale prices, held
unreasonable restraints within the meaning of the Sherman Act.
P. 252.
6. The Mller-Tydings Act can not be so applied to products manufactured in successive stages by different processors that the first
processor may control the prices of his successors. P. 253.
7. Features of a licensing system, which, by themselves, might be
lawful, but which are closely identified and interwoven with a scheme
of price restrictions violative of the Sherman Act, will be suppressed
with the scheme as a whole. P. 254.
No. 855, reversed.
No. 856, affirmed.
APPEAL and cross-appeal from a decree of the District

Court which granted in part, and in part refused, relief
sought by the Government in a suit under the Sherman
Act.
Mr. Samuel S. Isseks and Assistant Attorney General
Arnold, with whom Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs.
James C. Wilson, Richard H. Demuth, and Stanley E.
Disney were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. H. A. Toulmin, Jr., with whom Messrs. Frederick
S. Duncan and John M. Mason were on the brief, for

appellees in No. 855 and appellants in No. 356.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases come here on direct appeal and cross appeal
from a judgment of the District Court granting in part
and denying in part the Government's prayer for an in-

U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
241

Opinion of the Court.

junction restraining violations of §§ 1 and 3 of the Sherman
Act, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 3, which make unlawful any contract,
combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce among the states. The principal questions for decision are:
First:Whether the system established and maintained
by the Univis Corporation, appellee and cross appellant,
for licensing the manufacture and sale of patented multifocal eyeglass lenses is excluded by the patent monopoly from the operation of the Sherman Act.
Second: Whether if not so excluded the resale price
provisions of the licensing system are within the prohibition of the Sherman Act and not exempted from it by the
provisions of the Miller-Tydings Act amendment of § 1 of
the Sherman Act, 50 Stat. 693.
Appellee, Univis Lens Company, was the owner of a
number of patents and two trademarks relating to multifocal lenses. In 1931 it organized appellee, Univis Corporation. The Lens Company then acquired and now
holds a majority of the stock of the Corporation. The
individual appellees are the principal stockholders of the
Lens Company. They are stockholders in the Corporation and are the principal officers of both corporations,
which may for the purposes of this suit be treated as
though they were a single corporation. Upon the organization of the Corporation, the Lens Company transferred
to it all its interest in the patents and trademarks presently
involved, and the Corporation then proceeded to set up
and has since maintained the licensing system which the
Government now assails.
The relevant features of the system are as follows: The
Corporation licenses the Lens Company to manufacture
lens blanks and to sell them to designated licensees of
the Corporation, upon the Lens Company's payment to
the Corporation of an agreed royalty of 50 cents a pair.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

The lens blanks are rough opaque pieces of glass of suitable size, design and composition for use, when ground and
polished, as multifocal lenses in eyeglasses. Each blank
is composed of two or more pieces of glass of different refractive power, of such size, shape, and composition and
so disposed that when fused together in the blank it is
said to conform to the specifications and claims of some
one of the Corporation's patents.
The Corporation also issues three classes of licenseslicenses to wholesalers, to finishing retailers and to prescription retailers. The licenses to wholesalers authorize
the licensees to purchase the blanks from the Lens Company, to finish them by grinding and polishing, and to sell
them to prescription licensees only at prices fixed by the
Corporation licensor. In finishing the lenses so as to make
them an effective aid to vision of the prospective wearer,
to whom the prescription retailer sells, it is necessary for
the wholesaler; by grinding the blanks, to conform their
curvatures to the prescription supplied by the retailer
with his order. By the terms of the license the wholesalers
are required to keep full accounts of all sales, showing the
sales prices of lenses and the names of the purchasers,
and to make them available to representatives of the
Corporation.
The licenses to finishing retailers-who purchase the
blanks from the Lens Company, grind and polish them
and adjust the lenses, in frames or supports, to the eyes
of the consumers-contain similar provisions. The retailers are licensed to purchase the blanks of the Lens
Company and to sell them to their customers at prices
prescribed by the Corporation licensor.
Both the licenses to wholesalers and to finishing retailers
require the licensee to notify the Corporation "of any
violation on the part of any jobbers or other licensees of
the agreements respectively made by them with the Corporation, and to assist the Corporation in all possible ways

U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
241

Opinion of the Court.

in securing evidence against, and enforcing its agreements
with such jobbers and licensees."
The licenses to prescription retailers, who are without
facilities for grinding and finishing the lenses, but who
prescribe and adjust glasses for their customers, are signed
both by the Corporation and a licensor wholesaler, and
grant to the retailer a "franchise to prescribe and fit Univis
lenses," in return for which the prescription retailer agrees
to sell finished lenses only to consumers and only at prices
prescribed by the Corporation.
. All the licenses to wholesalers and retailers recite the
Corporation's ownership of the lens patents and purport
to confer on the licensee the privilege of selling the patented invention in the manner and to the extent stated.
No royalties are exacted of any of the licensees other than
the 50 cents collected by the Corporation for each pair
of blanks sold by the Lens Company. The rewards of
the corporate appellees for the exploitation of the
patents and the patented lenses are derived wholly from
the sales by the Lens Company of the blanks, from the
proceeds of which the 50 cent royalty is paid.
The prices prescribed and maintained under the licensing system are: $3.25 a pair for the blanks sold by the Lens
Company to wholesalers, and $4 a pair for those sold to
finishing retailers; $7 a pair for finished lenses sold by
wholesalers; $16 a pair for white, and $20 for tinted, lenses
sold to consumers by prescription and finishing retailers.
The Corporation pursues the policy of issuing licenses
to "qualified licensees" who, it is said, are required to
maintain "high standards of practice" and to be skilled
in the performance of the services which they undertake
to render. According to the Corporation's instructions
to its field representatives, "price cutters" are not eligible
as prescription retailer licensees. Inquiry is made to
ascertain whether prospective licensees advertise prices,
and whether they are considered in their communities to

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

be price cutters. The Corporation cancels licenses principally because of the failure of licensees to adhere to the
price fixing provisions but also because they advertise
prices or the acceptance of installment payments, or for
other forms of advertising objectionable to it; for selling
Univis lenses to customers other than those designated
by the Corporation; for not giving a certain percentage of
the licensees' multifocal lens business to Univis; because
the licensee is located in a drug, department or jewelry
store, or because the licensee engaged in price cutting in
the sale of the products of other manufacturers.
For a time the Corporation licensed approximately 20
per cent of the retailers in a locality. It now licenses a
larger percentage but not more than 50 per cent. There
are approximately 330 wholesaler licensees, 325 finishing
retailer licensees and 6,500 prescription retailer licensees
located in various states of the Union, including New York
and the District of Columbia. The Corporation, by its
representatives, solicits licenses and negotiates with
licensees in the towns and cities where they conduct their
business, including the Southern District of New York.
The Lens Company, whose annual sales volume is approximately $1,000,000, ships blanks in interstate commerce from its factory in Ohio to wholesalers and finishing licensees in the various places where they are located,
including the Southern District, where its representatives
visit licensees for the purpose of instructing them in finishing lens blanks and for promoting sales of Univis lenses.
The facts amply established the venue of the court below.
Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S.
359, 373.
Of the sixteen patents owned by the Corporation, three
are unrelated to the issues of the present case; five are
for methods of producing lenses utilized by the Lens Company in manufacturing blanks and do not concern any
method or process employed by the licensees who finish

U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
241

Opinion of the Court.

the lens blanks. Each of the remaining eight patents
relates to the shape, size, composition and disposition
of the pieces of glass of different refractive power in the
blanks into which they are fused.
The District Court found, 41 F. Supp. 258, that the
claims of each of these eight patents are for a finished
lens and that consequently the wholesalers and finishing
retailers, in grinding and polishing each lens, practice in
part the patent, in conformity to which the Lens Company has manufactured the blanks which it supplies.
The court thought that without the granted license the
final step in finishing the lens would infringe the patent
and concluded that for this reason the Corporation could
condition its licenses upon the maintenance by the licensee
of the prescribed retail price. See United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476. But it held that the
prescription retailer licenses are unlawful because their
restrictions upon the resale of the finished product are
not within the patent monopoly and are proscribed by the
Sherman Act.
It also held that certain "fair trade agreements" entered
into by the Lens Company with the licensees for the control of resale prices of the finished lenses, were not within
the exception to the Sherman Act created by the MillerTydings Act. This was because the Lens Company had
undertaken to fix the resale price of the finished lenses,
.which are a different product from the lens blanks which
it manufactures and sells. The court accordingly limited
the relief which it granted to an injunction restraining
respondents from carrying out or enforcing the restrictive
provisions of the prescription retailer licenses and the fair
trade agreements, and from using its licensing system-as
has been done in one instance-as the means of preventing
a particular competitior from manufacturing and distributing multifocal lens blanks similar in appearance to those
produced by the Lens Company.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1941
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

The Government has not put in issue the validity of the
lens patents, but argues that their scope does not extend
beyond the structure of the lens blanks and consequently
affords no basis for the Corporation's restrictions on the
sale of the finished lenses which the wholesalers and finishing retailers fashion from blanks purchased from the Lens
Company. It insists that the novel features of the invention do not include more than the combination of shape,
size and arrangement of the described pieces of glass
when they are fused into the blank; that the grinding and
polishing of the blank involve no practice and add no
feature not common to the finishing and "fitting" of other
types of multifocal lenses which are not covered by the
patents; and that their scope cannot be lawfully extended
to a procedure not in itself novel merely because it is
applied to an article which embodies the only novel
features of the alleged invention, and has by the sale
become a lawful subject of commerce.
The record gives no account of the prior art and does
not provide us with other material to which, if available,
resort might appropriately be had in determining the nature of an alleged invention and the validity and scope
of the patent claims founded upon it. In any event, we
find it unnecessary, in the circumstances of this case, to
decide whether, as the court below held, the patent claims
can rightly be said to include the finishing of the blanks.
As appellees concede, the invention of only a single
lens patent is utilized in making each blank and finishing it
as a lens. We therefore put to one side questions which
might arise if the finisher of a particular lens blank utilized
the invention of some patent other than the patent which
was practiced in part by the manufacture of the blank.
And we assume for present purposes, without deciding,
that the patent is not fully practiced until the finishing
licensee has ground and polished the blank so that it will

U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
241

Opinion of the Court.

serve its purpose as a lens. But merely because the
licensee takes the final step in the manufacture of the patented product, by doing work on the blank which he has
purchased from the patentee's licensee, it does not follow
that the patentee can control the price at which the finished lens is sold.
Notwithstanding the assumption which we have made
as to the scope of the patent, each blank, as appellees insist, embodies essential features of the patented device
and is without utility until it is ground and polished as
the finished lens of the patent. We may assume also,
as appellees contend, that sale of the blanks by an unlicensed manufacturer to an unlicensed finisher for their
completion would constitute contributory infringement
by the seller. Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. 325, 332-33; cf. Carbice Corp. v.
American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27, 34.
But in any case it is plain that where the sale of the
blank is by the patentee or his licensee-here the Lens
Company-to 6 finisher, the only use to which it could be
put and the only object of the sale is to enable the latter
to grind and polish it for use as a lens by the prospective
wearer. An incident to the purchase of any article,
whether patented or unpatented, is the right to use and sell
it, and upon familiar principles the authorized sale of an
article which is capable of use only in practicing the patent is a relinquishment of the patent monopoly with respect to the article sold. Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co.,
302 U. S. 458, 460-61; B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 314
U. S. 495. Sale of a lens blank by the patentee or by his
licensee is thus in itself both a complete transfer of ownership of the blank, which is within the protection of the
patent law, and a license to practice the final stage of the
patent procedure. In the present case the entire consideration and compensation for both is the purchase price

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

paid by the finishing licensee to the Lens Company. We
have no question here of what other stipulations, for
royalties or otherwise, might have been exacted as a part
of the entire transaction, which do not seek to control the
disposition of the patented article after the sale. The
question is whether the patentee or his licensee, no longer
aided by the patent, may lawfully exercise such control.
The declared purpose of the patent law is to promote
the progress of science and the useful arts by granting
to the inventor a limited monopoly, the exercise of which
will enable him to secure the financial rewards for his
invention. Constitution of the United States, Art. I, § 8,
Cl. 8; 35 U. S. C. §§ 31, 40., The full extent of the monopoly is the patentee's "exclusive right to make, use,
and vend the invention or discovery." The patentee
may surrender his monopoly in whole by the sale of his
patent or in part by the sale of an article embodying the
invention. His monopoly remains so long as he retains
the ownership of the patented article. But sale of it exhausts the monopoly in that article and the patentee may
not thereafter, by virtue of his patent, control the use or
disposition of the article. Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14
How. 539, 549-50; Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Hobbie
v. Jennison, 149 U. S. 355. Hence the patentee cannot
control the resale price of patented articles which he has
sold, either by resort to an infringement suit, or, consistently with the Sherman Act (unless the Miller-Tydings
Act applies), by stipulating for price maintenance by his
vendees. Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Boston
Store v. American GraphophoneCo., 246 U. S. 8; Strausv.
Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490; Ethyl Gasoline
Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 456-57, and cases
cited.
We think that all the considerations which support these
results lead to the conclusion that where one has sold

U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
241

Opinion of the Court.

an uncompleted article which, because it embodies essential features of his patented invention, is within the protection of his patent, and has destined the article to be
finished by the purchaser in conformity to the patent, he
has sold his invention so far as it is or may be embodied
in that particular article. The reward he has demanded
and received is for the article and the invention which it
embodies and which his vendee is to practice upon it.
He has thus parted with his right to assert the patent
monopoly with respect to it and is no longer free to control
the price at which it may be sold either in its unfinished or
finished form. No one would doubt that if the patentee's
licensee had sold the blanks to a wholesaler or finishing
retailer, without more, the purchaser would not infringe
by grinding and selling them. The added stipulation by
the patentee fixing resale prices derives no support from
the patent and must stand on the same footing under the
Sherman Act as like stipulations with respect to unpatented commodities. Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United
States, supra.
Our decisions have uniformly recognized that the purpose of the patent law is fulfilled with respect to any
particular article when the patentee has received his reward for the use of his invention by the sale of the article,
and that once that purpose is realized the patent law affords no basis for restraining the use and enjoyment of
the thing sold. Adams v. Burke, supra, 456; Keeler v.
StandardFolding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659; Motion Picture
Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 502; and see cases
collected in General Pictures Co. v. Electric Ca., 305 U. S.
124, 128, n. 1. In construing and applying the patent law
so as to give effect to the public policy which limits the
granted monopoly strictly to the terms of the statutory
grant, Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, the
particular form or method by which the monopoly is

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

sought to be extended is immaterial. The first vending
of any article manufactured under a patent puts the article
beyond the reach of the monopoly which that patent confers. Whether the licensee sells the patented article in
its completed form or sells it before completion for the
purpose of enabling the buyer to finish and sell it, he has
equally parted with the article, and made it the vehicle
for transferring to the buyer ownership of the invention
with respect to that article. To that extent he has parted
with his patent monopoly in either case, and has received
in the purchase price every benefit of that monopoly which
the patent law secures to him. If he were permitted to
control the price at which it could be sold by others he
would extend his monopoly quite as much in the one case
as in the other, and he would extend it beyond the fair
meaning of the patent statutes and the construction which
has hitherto been given to them.
There is thus no occasion for our reconsideration, as the
Government asks, of United States v. GeneralElectric CO.,
supra, on which appellees rely. The Court in. that case
was at pains to point out that a .patentee whd manufactures the product protected by the patent and fails to
retain his ownership in it can not control the price at
which it is sold by his distributors (272 U. S. at 489). Accordingly, neither the Lens Company nor the Corporation,
by virtue of the patents, could after the sale of the lens
blank exercise any further control over the article sold.
The price fixing features of appellees' licensing system,
which are not within the protection of the patent law,
violate the Sherman Act save only as the fair trade agreements may bring them within the Miller-Tydings Act.
Agreements for price maintenance of articles moving in
interstate commerce are, without more, unreasonable re'straints within the m.aning of the Sherman Act because
they eliminate competition, UnitedStates v. Trenton Pot-

U. S. v. UNIVIS LENS CO.
241

Opinion of the Court.

teries Co., 273 U. S. 392; United States v. Socony-Vacuum
Co., 310 U. S. 150, and restrictions imposed by the seller
upon resale prices of articles moving in interstate commerce were, until the enactment of the Miller-Tydings
Act, 50 Stat. 693, consistently held to be violations of the
Sherman Act. Ethyl Gasoline Co. v. United States, supra,
457, and cases cited.
The Miller-Tydings Act provides that nothing in the
Sherman Act "shall render illegal, contracts or agreements
prescribing minimum prices for the resale of a commodity
which bears, or the label or container of which bears, the
trade mark, brand, or name of the producer or distributor
of such commodity and which is in free and open competition with commodities of the same general class produced
or distributed by others . . ." whenever such agreements
are lawful where the resale is made.
The contracts entered into by the Lens Company with
the licensees of the Corporation stipulate for the maintenance of the prices which are prescribed by the licensing
system. Appellees assert, and we assume for present purposes, that the blanks which the Lens Company sells and
the finished lenses are marked by appellees' trademark as
required by the statute. In the contracts the Lens Company is designated as the manufacturer of "eye glass
lenses" which are distributed and sold under the trademark of the manufacturer. But the Lens Company manufactures the blanks and not the finished lenses to which
the resale prices apply. It is therefore not the manufacturer of the "commodity" which the licensees sell, and
the licensees are not engaged in the "resale" of the same
commodity they buy. We find nothing in the language of
the Miller-Tydings Act, or in its legislative history, to
indicate that its provisions were to be so applied to products manufactured in successive stages by different processors that the first would be free to control the price of

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

his successors. The prescribed prices are thus not within
the Miller-Tydings exception to the Sherman Act.
Appellees stress the features of their licensing system by
which it is said they protect the public interest and their
own good will by the selection as licensees of those who
are specially skilled and competent to render the service
which they undertake. But if we assume that such restrictions might otherwise be valid, cf. Fashion Guild v.
Trade Commission, 312 U. S. 457, 467, these features are
so interwoven with and identified with the price restrictions which are the core of the licensing system that the
case is an appropriate one for the suppression of the
entire licensing scheme even though some of its features,
independently established, might have been used for lawful purposes. Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States,
supra,461. The injunction of the District Court will therefore be continued, and extended so as to suppress all the
license contracts and the maintenance of the licensing
system which appellees have established, other than the
Corporation's license to the Lens Company. The judgment in No. 856 is affirmed. The judgment in No. 855
is reversed, and both cases are remanded to the district
court for the entry of an appropriate decree in conformity to this opinion.
No. 855 reversed.
No. 856 affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.

