OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U. S.

GORMAN, CITY TREASURER OF KANSAS CITY,
ET AL. V. WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 711.

Argued April 2, 1942.-Decided April 27, 1942.

1. This Court is without jurisdiction to review a decision by a state
court which is not the highest court of the State in which a decision
could be had. Jud. Code § 237 (b). P. 99.
2. Under the constitution of Missouri and the Rules of the State
Supreme Court, a judgment of a division of that court in a case
involving a federal question is susceptible of review by the full court
sitting en bane. P. 99.
This Court is without jurisdiction to review such a judgment unless the petitioner has first applied for review of the judgment by the
full court sitting en banc.
3. Upon application to this Court for review of the judgment of a
state court it is the petitioner's burden to show affirmatively that
this Court has jurisdiction. P. 101.
348 Mo. 310, 153 S.W. 2d 35, writ dismissed.
CERTIORARI,

314 U. S.604, to review a judgment which

affirmed a judgment enjoining the collection of a tax.
Mr. William E. Kemp, with whom Mr. Elmo B. Hunter
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper,with whom Messrs.Robert
B. Caldwell, Richard S. Bull, and James A. Montgomery,
Jr. were on the brief, for respondent.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE STo - delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent brought this suit in the Circuit Court of
Jackson County, Missouri, to restrain the assessment and
collection of a tax upon its real estate. The validity of

the provisions of the state constitution and statutes under
which the tax was laid was assailed on the ground that

GORMAN v. WASHINGTON UNIV.
98

Opinion of the Court.

they violate the tax-exemption provision of respondent's
charter and therefore conflict with the contract clause
of the Constitution, Article I, § 10. The Supreme Court
of Missouri affirmed the judgment of the trial court enjoining collection of the tax. 348 Mo. 310, 153 S. W. 2d
35. Both courts held that the Missouri constitution and
statutes as applied violate respondent's charter provisions
for tax exemption, and infringe the contract clause of the
Constitution. Cf. Washington University v. Rouse, 8
Wall. 439; Washington University v. Baumann, 341 Mo.
708, 108 S. W. 2d 403. We granted a writ of certiorari,
314 U. S. 604, to review the constitutional question decided
by the state court.
Upon examination of the record it appears that the decision and judgment brought here for review were rendered by Division One of the Supreme Court of Missouri,
which consists of four of the seven judges of the court.
It does not appear that the judgment thus rendered has
been reviewed by the Supreme Court sitting en banc, or
that petitioners have made application, as they could
have done under § 4 of the 1890 amendments to Article
VI of the state constitution, to transfer the cause to the
full court for review. The question thus arises whether
we have jurisdiction under § 237 (b) of the Judicial Code,
which restricts our authority to review decisions of state
courts to those causes wherein a judgment has been rendered "by the highest court of a state m which a, decision
could be had."
Section 1 of the 1890 amendments to Article VI of the
Missouri constitution provides that the Supreme Court
shall consist of seven judges and "shall be divided into
two divisions," one of four and the other of three judges.
It directs that a division shall sit separately for the hearing and disposition of causes, and shall have concurrent
jurisdiction of all matters and causes in the Supreme
Court, except that Division Two shall have exclusive cog-

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1941.
Opinion of the Court.

316 U.S.

nizance of criminal causes, and that the "judgments and
decrees of either division, as to causes and matters pending before it, shall have the force and effect of those of the
court."
But § I also contains a proviso that a cause pending in
a division may be transferred to the court as provided.
in § 4. Section 4 reads as follows:
"When the judges of a division are equally divided in
opinion in a cause, or when a judge of a division dissents
from the opinion therein, or when a federal question is
involved, the cause, on the application of the losing party,
shall be transferred to the court for its decision; . . ."
And Rule 24 of the Rules of the Supreme Court of Missouri authorizes the transfer by motion of a cause pursuant
to the provisions of the constitution, "from either division
to Court En Banc" "after final disposition of the cause
by the division."
Under these provisions, Division One of the Supreme
Court of Missouri, sitting in the present cause, in which
"a federal question is involved," was not the last state
court in which a decision of that question could be had.
Such a case is one which "after final disposition of the
cause by the division" could on petitioners' application
be transferred to the full court for review, and the decision
and judgment rendered by Division One could be set aside
by the court sitting en banc. Since the constitution of
Missouri has thus provided in this class of cases for
review of the judgment of a division, the judgment here
of Division One is not that of the "highest court of the
state in which a decision could be had" within the meaning of § 237 (b) of the Judicial Code.
It was the purpose of the Judiciary Act of February 13,
1925, as well as that of all its predecessors, that no decision
of a state court should be brought here for review either
by appeal or certiorari until the possibilities afforded by
state procedure for its review by all state tribunals have

WALEY v. JOHNSTON.
Syllabus.

98

been exhausted. Fisher v. Perkins, 122 U. S. 522; McComb v. Commissioners,91 U. S. 1, 2; McMaster v. Gould,
276 U. S. 284; Southern Electric Co. v. Stoddard, 269
U. S. 186; Stratton v. Stratton, 239 U. S. 55; Mullen v.
Western Union Beef Co., 173 U. S. 116; Great Western
Telegraph Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339. Hence it is
the last state tribunal-here the court en banc--to which
the cause could be brought for review which is the "highest court of a state in which a decision could be had"
within the meaning of the jurisdictional statute, regardless of the particular description or designation which may
be applied to it by state statutes.Upon application to this Court for review of the judgment of a state court, it is the petitioner's burden to show
affirmatively that we have jurisdiction. Memphis Natural Gas Co. v. Deeler, 315 U. S. 649. As the record fails
to disclose that the judgment, review of which is now
sought, is that of the highest court of the state in which
a decision could be had, we are without jurisdiction and
the writ must be
Dismissed.
WALEY v. JOHNSTON, WARDEN.
ON

PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THt NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1006.

Decided April 27, 1942.

1. A conviction on a plea of guilty coerced by a federal law enforcement officer is wanting in due process of law. P. 103.
2. A plea of guilty which because of coercion will not support a con-:

viction has no validity as a waiver of the right to assail a conviction based on the plea. P. 104.
3. The issue of whether a conviction was 'oid because based on a
-coerced plea of guilty, when dependent on facts dehor8 the record

of the criminal case, and not open to considerition or review on
appeal, is determinable in habeas corpus. P. 104.

