MISSOURI STATE INS. CO. v. JONES.

199

Syllabus.

190

The infirmities of the enactment are not relieved by an
indefinite right of review in respect of some action spoken
of as arbitrary. Before its property can be taken under
the edict of an administrative officer the appellant is
entitled to a fair hearing upon the fundamental facts.
This has not been accorded. The judgment below must
be reversed. The cause will be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JusTICE CARDOZO dissent upon the ground that there has been
a lawful delegation to the State Highway Commissioner
of the power to declare the need for the abatement of a
nuisance through the elimination of grade crossings dangerous to life and limb; that this power may be exercised
without notice or a hearing (Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Nebraska, 170 U.S. 57, 77), provided adequate opportunity is afforded for review in the event that the power is
perverted or abused; and that such opportunity has been
given by the statutes of Virginia as construed by its
highest court.
MISSOURI STATE LIFE INSURANCE CO. ET AL. V.
JONES, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS:

No. 16.

Argued November 8, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. The amount of an attorney's fee for services in the case, demanded
pursuant to a state statute, is not " costs " within the meaning of
the federal removal act (Jud. Code, § 24), but should be added
to the principal sum sued for in determining the amount in controversy. P. 202.
2. Provision of the state statute that the attorney's fee shall be
taxed and collected as costs, does not make it costs within the
meaning of the federal act. Id.
186 Ark. 519; 54 S.W. (2d) 407, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 719, to review the affirmance of a
judgment for the sum of two life insurance policies and
an attorney's fee. The state court had denied the right
to remove to a federal court.

Mr. Allen May, with whom Messrs. Paul B. Cromein,
Bolitha J. Laws, and A. F. House were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Tom Poe, with whom Mr. Sam T. Poe was on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In a removal proceeding based upon diversity of citizenship, is it proper to treat attorneys' fees imposed by the
Arkansas statute and claimed by the plaintiff, as part of
the sum necessary for jurisdiction in the federal court?
Section 41, 28 U.S.C. (Jud. Code, § 24) confers original
jurisdiction upon District Courts of the United States of
suits of a civil nature between citizens of different States
' where the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of
interest and costs, the sum or value of $3,000." And § 71,
28 U.S.C. (Jud. Code, § 28) provides for removing suits of
which District Courts are given original jurisdiction.
Section 6155, Crawford & Moses' Digest, Statutes of
Arkansas" In all cases where loss occurs, and the fire, life, health,
or accident insurance company liable therefor shall fail to
pay the same within the time specified in the policy, after
demand made therefor, such company shall be liable to pay
the holder of such policy, in addition to the amount of
such loss, twelve per cent. damages upon the amount of
such loss, together with all reasonable attorneys' fees for
the prosecution and collection of said loss; said attorneys'
fee to be taxed by the court where the same is heard on
original action, by appeal or otherwise and to be taxed up

MISSOURI STATE INS. CO. v. JONES.
199

201

Opinion of the Court.

as a part of the costs therein and collected as other costs.
are or may be by law collected. Act March 29 1905,"
p. 307."
Seeking to recover upon two insurance policies, respondent Johnson, a citizen of Arkansas, sued the .petitionei, 'a
Missouri corporation, in the Hot Springs Circuit Court.
He asked judgment for $3,000, total of the policies, "together with a reasonable attorney's fee for his attorneys
herein and for all of his costs herein expended."
By proper proceeding the defendant company asked
removal of the cause to the United States District Court.
It alleged a reasonable attorney's fee would amount to
$250.00 and that the matter in controversy exceeded
$3,000, exclusive of interest and costs. Removal was
denied. Judgment went in favor of Johnson for $3,000;
also the court further found and adjudged "that the
plaintiff is entitled to an attorney's fee of $550, and the
same is hereby assessed and taxed as a part of the costs
in this case." Upon appeal the Supreme Court affirmed
the judgment. Among other things, it said [pp. 522,
523]:
"Appellant contends for a reversal of the judgment
upon the ground that the trial court erred in denying its
petition for removal of the cause to the Federal Court.
It is argued that to include an attorney's fee in the amount
sued for exceeds $3,000, interest and costs, and in amount
makes the cause a removable one under the Federal Removal Statute (28 U.S.C.A. 41, 71). This court has
ruled otherwise in the case of Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Marsh, 185 Ark. 333, 47 S.W. (2d) 585.

In the case

referred to, it was ruled that an attorney's fee in cases of
this nature must be taxed as costs in compliance with the
express terms of § 6135 of Crawford & Moses' Digest."
In Marsh's Case, judgment was sought upon an insurance policy for $3,000, together with 12% penalty and
attorneys' fees. The trial court denied a petition for
removal. The Supreme Court disapproved, and said:

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

"He sues for $3,000 and 12 per cent. damages and attorney's fees. Section 6155, supra, provides that the attorney's fees shall be taxed as costs, but it does not provide
that the 12 per cent. penalty shall be taxed as costs.
Therefore the amount in controversy was $3,360." Evidently, the court concluded because the state statute
directed that attorneys' fees should be treated as costs,
they were costs within the removal statute. Also, that
the prescribed damages were not costs since not so
declared.
But this view was rejected here in Sioux County v. National Surety Co., 276 U.S. 238, 241. We there held that a
statute which allowed attorneys' fees to be taxed as part
of the costs created a liability enforceable by proper judgment in a federal court; that the mere declaration of
the state statute could not alter the true nature of the
obligation.
In the state court the present respondent sought to enforce the liability imposed by statute for his benefit-to
collect something to which the law gave him a right. The
amount so demanded became part of the matter put in
controversy by the complaint, and not mere " costs" excluded from the reckoning by the jurisdictional and removal statutes.
The challenged judgment must be
Reversed.
YARBOROUGH v. YARBOROUGH.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 14.

Argued October 12, 13, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. A decree of a state court fixing the obligation of a divorced father
for the support and education of his minor daughter, held binding,
under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution, on the

