LUMBRA v. UNITED STATES.

551

Syllabus.

LUMBRA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 152.

Argued November 17, 1933.-Decded January 8, 1934.

1. In determining whether there was any evidence to sustain a verdict for the plaintiff, all facts that the evidence supporting his
claim reasonably tends to prove should be assumed as established,
and all inferences fairly deducible from them should be drawn in
his favor. P. 553.
2. To a claim under a war risk contract insuring unqualifiedly
against "total permanent disability," the occasion, source or
cause of the petitioner's illness is immaterial. P. 558..
3. Injuries, exposure and illness suffered by the claimant before the
lapse of his policy, and his condition in subsequent years, have
significance, if any, only to the extent that they tend to show
whether he was in fact totally and permanently disabled during
the life of the policy. P. 558.
4. The phrase " total permanent disability" in the War Risk Insurance Act, should be construed reasonably and with regard to
the circumstances of each case. P. 558.
5. It can not be said that injury or disease sufficient merely to prevent one from again doing some work of the kind he had been
accustomed to perform constitutes the disability meant by the
Act, for such impairment may not lessen or affect his ability to
follow other useful, and perchance more lucrative, occupations.
P. 559.
6. Separate and distinct periods of temporary total disability,
though likely to recur at intervals throughout life, do not constitute total permanent disability. Permanent disability means that
which is continuing as opposed to that which is temporary. P. 559.
7. The mere fact that one has done some work after the lapse of his
policy does not in itself suffice to defeat his claim of total permanent disability; but the work performed may be such as conclusively to negative total permanent disability at the earlier time.
Pp. 560, 561.
8. Evidence of the claimant's condition after lapse of his policy may
be considered only for the purpose of determining his condition
while the contract was in force, P, 560,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

9. The claimant's conduct after the alleged accrual of his claim in
this case, shows that he did not believe he was totally and permanently disabled when he let his policy lapse; and his unexplained
delay in bringing suit is strong evidence that he was not thus disabled at that time. P. 560.
63 F. (2d) 796, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment reversing a recovery
by verdict in an action on a war risk insurance policy.
Mr. Warren E. Miller for petitioner.
Mr. Will G. Beardslee, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Assistant Solicitor General MacLean, and Messrs.
Randolph C. Shaw and W. Clifton Stone were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner was a private in the army of the United
States from July 14, 1917, to April 29, 1919. In September, 1917, he obtained war risk insurance against death
or total permanent disability. May 31, 1919, the policy
lapsed for nonpayment of premiums. November 30,
1931, he brought this suit in the federal district court for
Vermont alleging that before May 31, 1919, the policy
was matured by his total permanent disability. Issue
having been joined, there was trial by jury. At the close
of all the evidence respondent requested the court to direct a verdict in its favor. The court denied the motion
and, the jury having found for petitioner, entered judgment in his favor. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 63 F. (2d) 796.
Petitioner's claim is that while the policy was in force
he became subject to recurring spells of headache, dizziness, epileptic seizures and other illness constituting total
permanent disability. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

LUMBRA v. UNITED STATES.
551

Opinion of the Court.

the evidence not sufficient to show total permanent disability of petitioner while the insurance was in force.
The question presented is whether there was any evidence
upon which a verdict for petitioner might properly be
found. And, for its decision, we assume as established all
the facts that the evidence supporting petitioner's claims
reasonably tends to prove and that there should be drawn
in his favor all the inferences fairly deduciblo from such
facts. Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U.S. 90, 94.
Before joining the army, petitioner was a laborer and
worked cutting logs, building roads and as a farm and
factory hand. When enrolled he was a healthy and
strong man of 25 years. He served overseas in a machine
gun company. One of his ankles was injured June 16,
1918, and two days later he was taken for treatment to a
base hospital where he remained about a month. It was
there recorded that, while going into a dugout, he had
slipped and severely sprained his ankle; that there was
no fracture, and that his general condition, heart, lungs
and nervous system, were satisfactory. When discharged
from the hospital, he joined his company, and remained
with it until mustered out at Camp Devens, Massachusetts, April 29, 1919. The official recordshows that
upon a careful examination at that time by an army
surgeon he was found mentally and physically sound;
that he declared he had no reason to believe he. was impaired in health or was suffering from the effects of any
wound, injury or disease; and that his company commander had no reason to believe he then had any wound,
injury or disease.
In 1920 petitioner several times consulted Dr. Frank
B. Hunt, who certified, December 7, 1920, he found petitioner suffering from rheumatism, chronic bronchitis and
nervousness. At the trial Dr. Hunt testified that petitioner was not, when examined, totally incapacitated and
did not complain of having had epileptic seizures of any

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

kind. It seems that the certificate was intended for use
in support of an application to the United States for compensation.' And, apparently in connection with such an
application, petitioner was examined by Dr. Byron Herman of the Public Health Service. Under date of December 10, 1920, Dr. Herman reported that while in the
army petitioner was never sick, although in the hospital
once for a sprained ankle; that he became ill after getting
home, and that he then complained of rheumatism, throat
trouble, and husky voice. The doctor's diagnosis was
chronic rheumatism and chronic laryngitis; his prognosis
was: " Good." He reported that petitioner was able to
resume his former occupation; that the degree of vocational handicap was negligible, and that vocational training was feasible. January 17, 1921, petitioner verified an
application for compensation stating that he was suffering
from bronchial troubles, rheumatism and nervousness,
which commenced about a year earlier and were caused by
gas and exposure in France. And, in March, 1922, claiming to be partially disabled by reason of ailments of the
lungs and throat, petitioner made application for compensation and training.
In April, 1924, and in January, 1925 and 1926, petitioner was examined by Dr. Waldo J. Upton, a specialist
in nervous and mental diseases. He represented that he
had no injury or illness durinig his military service and was
in good physical condition when discharged, but that a few
months later he became nervous, weak and unable to endure noise. The doctor diagnosed the case as one of mild
neurasthenia characterized by weakness, irritability and
'Compensation for death or disability resulting from personal injuries suffered or disease contracted in the line of duty was provided
by Art. III, Act of October 6, 1917, 40 Stat. 405, as amended. The
grant of insurance was authorized by Art. IV, Act of October 6, 1917,
supra, p. 409, as amended.
See Runkle v. United States, 42 F. (2d) 804, 806.

LUMBRA v. UNITED STATES.
551

Opinion of the Court.

quick fatigue under stress. He found petitioner able to
Work at any occupation involving light labor, with reasonable regularity and without danger. He also examined
petitioner in 1928, 1929 and 1930. At the first examination petitioner reported that in 1926 and 1927 he had suffered attacks of unconsciousness. The doctor found petitioner suffering from severe neurasthenia and severe hysteria. In 1930 he found petitioner had pronounced psychoneurosis and that his condition suggested he was developing grand mal epilepsy. The doctor's testimony
indicates that from 1924 petitioner's condition became
progressively worse.
In 1926, Dr. Herman found petitioner was having grand
mal epileptiform seizures. He prescribed medicine and
sent petitioner to a government hospital where he remained a month. In August, 1927, Dr. James O'Neill
examined him. Petitioner said he had not been sick in
the army and had sustained no injury except to his ankle
and a slight gassing, but that he had been nervous practically from the time he left the army. Within the previous year he had suffered infrequent fits and had not, then
worked for nine weeks. His ailment was diagnosed as
severe hysteria and the doctor was of opinion he could
have worked. In March, 1929, Dr. Alan Davidson made
a diagnosis of epilepsy. Petitioner then said he had been
having uncontrollable nervous attacks which began when
he was in the hospital in France.
Petitioner had no medical treatment between 1920 and
1926. From that time to 1930 he was sent to the hospital
seven times and received treatment for periods ranging
from two to eight weeks. The government granted petitioner's applications for compensation. Commencing in
1924 he was rated 10 per cent. disabled and paid $9 or $10
a month. Later, increases for disability, were found- and
more compensation was allowed until in August, 1930,
his disability was rated at 100 per cent. and he was given

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

$94.50 per month in addition to $10.50 allowed for his
child.
From July, 1919, until the beginning of March, 1929, it
appears that petitioner was employed more or less regularly except for periods aggregating about two years for
which he does not account. Until January, 1921, he
worked in a veneer factory. He was discharged, he testified, because he lost too much time by reason of weakness
and dizzy spells. Then he helped on his sister's farm for
three or four months. The next definite information as
to his employment is that in July, 1922, he commenced
as a machinist's helper in the shops of the Central Vermont Railway Company. He worked about two-thirds
of full time until May 15, 1923, when he was laid off on
account of force reduction. It does not appear what he
did from then until February 18, 1924. At that time he
was again employed by the Central Vermont, and worked
nearly full time as a laborer until May when he quit in
order to work in the Boston & Maine Railroad shops. In
the following November he was discharged because, as he
said, illness caused him to lose too much time. In December, 1924, he was employed for the third time by the Central Vermont. He worked about 85 per cent. of the time
until August 23, 1926. Then he went to the hospital for
a month, but he did not return until November; he
worked nearly full time for the remainder of the year.
In 1927, he worked about half time: that is, until the
end of June he worked about 85 per cent. of full time, he
then went to the hospital for an undisclosed period, and
in October and November he worked about 70 per cent.
of full time. Then he was out until the end of January,
1928. Thereafter; until he was discharged in March,
1929, he worked about 80 per cent. of full time.
On each of the three occasions he went to work for the
Central Vermont, he made application for employment
in which he represented himself to be free from bodily

LUMBRA v. UNITED STATES.
551

Opinion of the Court.

complaints and of a strong constitution. The record contains testimony that throughout the period of this employment petitioner seemed tired and ill, that he was
transferred a number of times to lighter work, and
that, had he not been a veteran, he would have been
discharged.
The substance of petitioner's testimony, in so far as it
adds materially to the facts and evidence above referred
to, may be stated briefly:
June 16, 1918, a shell explosion threw him, injured his
ankle, shocked him severely, and caused him to lose consciousness for a time and to suffer spells of dizziness, headaches, weakness and great perspiration at least once a
week during the month he remained in the hospital. Desiring to leave the hospital, he refrained from disclosing
his illness to attending physicians or others. After he
resumed active service, the spells became worse. He disclosed his condition to the company commander and
because of it was assigned to work in the kitchen. He did
not get better while in France. After discharge, April
29, 1919, he went to his mother's home in Vermont and
rested for some months. The spells continued, grew
worse and sometimes would last a day. After commencing work in July, 1919, he was unsteady and weak, lost
much time and on account of his condition was given
lighter work and finally discharged in January, 1921.
I arly in 1923, he suffered a seizure in which he lost consciousness for about 15 minutes. So far as appears, this
was the first seizure in which petitioner fell or became
unconscious. Later he suffered such attacks with increasing frequency and intensity.
At the trial, medical men gave opinion evidence which,
when considered in connection with the facts and circumstances rightly to be taken as proved, is sufficient to sustain a finding that petitioner's illness before and after the
lapse of the policy resulted from injuries and exposure

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

while in the military service and that the epileptiform
and epileptic fits, such as that suffered March 1, 1923, and
later, are not curable.
The war risk contract unqualifiedly insures against
"total permanent disability." The occasion, source or
cause of petitioner's illness is therefore immaterial.2 ' His
injuries, exposure and illness before the lapse of the policy
and his condition in subsequent years have significance, if
any, only to the extent that they tend to show whiether
he was in fact totally and permanently disabled during
the life of the policy.' March 9, 1918, in pursuance of the
authorization contained in the War Risk Insurance Act,'
the director of the bureau ruled (T.D. 20 W.R.): "Any
impairment of mind or body which renders it impossible
for the disabled person to follow continuously any substantially gainful occupation shall be deemed . . . to be
total disability. Total disability shall be deemed to be
permanent whenever it is founded upon conditions which
render it reasonably certain that it will continue throughout the life of the person suffering from it."
The phrase "total permanent disability" is to be construed reasonably and having regard to the circumstances
of each case. As the insurance authorized does not extend
to total temporary or partial permanent disability, the
' United States v. Golden, 34 F. (2d) 367, 370. United States v.
Tyrakowski, 50 F. (2d) 766, 768.
'Carter v. United States, 49 F. (2d) 221, 224. Eggen v. United

States, 58 F. (2d) 616, 619. Wise v. United States, 63 F. (2d) 307,
308. United States v. Clapp, 63 F. (2d) 793, 795. United States v.
Iinkhart, 64 F. (2d) 747, 748.
"'... The director, subject to the general direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall administer, execute, and enforce the provisions of this Act, and for that purpose have full power and authority to make rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, necessary or appropriate to carry out its purposes .
ยง 13, added by ยง 2, Act of October 6, 1917, 40 Stat. 399.

LUMBRA v. UNITED STATES.
551

Opinion of the Court.

tests appropriate for the determination of either need not
be ascertained. The various meanings inhering in the
phrase make impossible the ascertainment of any fixed
rules or formulae uniformly to govern its construction.
That which sometimes results in total disability may
cause slight inconvenience under other conditions. Some
are able to sustain themselves, without serious loss of
productive power, against injury or disease sufficient
totally to disable others. It cannot be said that injury or
disease sufficient merely to prevent one from again doing
some work of the kind he had been accustomed to perform
constitutes the disability meant by the Act, for such impairment may not lessen or affect his ability to follow
other useful, and perchance more lucrative, occupations.
Frequently, serious physical impairment stimulates to successful effort for the acquisition of productive ability that
theretofore remained Undeveloped.
The above quoted administrative decision is not, and
manifestly was not intended to be, an exact definition of
total permanent disability or the sole guide by which
that expression is to be construed. If read literally, every
impairment from time to time compelling interruption of
gainful occupation for any period, however brief, would
be total disability. And, if such impairment were shown
reasonably certain not to become less, it would constitute
total permanent disability. Persons in sound health occasionally suffer illness requiring them to remain in bed
for a time. It is not inaccurate to describe such illness
as " total disability" while it lasts. But clearly it is not
right to say that, if they remain sound but reasonably
certain throughout life occasionally to have like periods of
temporary illness, they are suffering from "total permanent disability." Such a construction would be unreasonable and contrary to the intention of Congress.
"Total disability" does not mean helplessness or com-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 Us.

plete disability, but it includes more than that which is
partial. "Permanent disability" means that which is
continuing as opposed to what is temporary. Separate
and distinct periods of temporary disability do not constitute that which is permanent. The mere fact that one
has done some work after the lapse of his policy is not
of itself sufficient to defeat his claim of total permanent
disability. He may have worked when really unable and
at the'risk of endangering his health or life! But manifestly work performed may be such as conclusively to
negative total permanent disability at the earlier time.'
It requires no discussion to show that the evidence in
respect of petitioner's condition during the life of the
policy has no substantial tendency to prove total permanent disability at the time of the lapse. The evidence
as to his subsequent condition may be considered only for
the purpose of determining his condition while the contract was in force. His conduct following the alleged accrual of his claim reflects his own opinion as to whether he
was totally and permanently disabled at the time of the
lapse. His own statements to medical men, their diagnoses, his repeated applications to the Government for
compensation and his failure earlier to assert any claim
show that for a decade he did not believe that he was
totally and permanently disabled when he let his policy
lapse May 31, 1919. And in the absence of clear and satisfactory evidence explaining, excusing or justifying it,
petitioner's long delay before bringing suit is to be taken
' United States v. Phillips, 44 F. (2d) 689, 691. United States v.
Godfrey, 47 F. (2d) 126. Carter v. United States, 49 F. (2d) 221,
223. United States v. Lawson, 50 F. (2d) 646, 651. Nicolay v.
United States, 51 F. (2d) 170, 173.
' United States v. Harrison, 49 F. (2d) 227. Nicolay v. United
States, 51 F. (2d) 170, 173-4. United States v. Perry, 55 F. (2d)
819, 824. United States v. McGill, 56 F. (2d) 522, 524. United
States v. Diehl, 62 F. (2d) 343, 344.

STATE COMM'N v. WICHITA GAS CO.
551

561

Syllabus.

as strong evidence that he was not totally and permanently disabled before the policy lapsed.'
It may be assumed that occasional work for short
periods by one generally disabled by impairment of mind
or body does not as a matter of law negative total permanent disability. But that is not this case. Petitioner
while claiming to be weak and ill and, contrary to the
opinion and diagnoses of examining physicians, that he
was really unable to work, did in fact do much work. For
long periods amounting in, the aggregate to more than
five years out of the ten following the lapse of the policy
he worked for substantial pay. No witness, lay or expert, testified to matters of fact or expressed opinion
tending to support petitioner's claim that he had suffered
"total permanent disability" before his policy lapsed.
Unless by construction these words are given a meaning
far different from that they are ordinarily used and understood to convey, the evidence must be held not sufficient
to support a verdict for petitioner. The trial court should
have directed a verdict for the United States. Gunning
v. Cooley, 281 U.S. 90, 93. Stevens v. The White City,
285 U.S. 195, 204.
Affirmed.

STATE CORPORATION -COMMISSION OF KANSAS
ET AL. V. WICHITA GAS CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS

No. 114.

Argued November 16, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. The sale, transportation and delivery of natural gas from one
State to distributors in another State, is interstate commerce, and
' United States v. Hairston, 55 F. (2d) 825, 827. Wise v. United
States, 63 F. (2d) 307, 308. United States v. Linkhart, 64 F. (2d)
747, 748. And see United States v. Eggen, 58 F. (2d) 616, 618.

