OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U:S.

265 U.S. 106, 123; Liggett & Myers Co..v. United States,
274 U.S. 215.
The case of United States v: North American Co., supra,
cannot be regarded as establishing a different rule for the
instant case. See Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. United
States, supra, p. 305; Phelps v. United States, supra, pp.
343,344. The North American case rested upon its special
facts. There the original taking was tortious and created
no liability on the part of the Government. Subsequent
action was held to create a liability which rested upon an
implied contract. The Court said that the suit was not
founded upon the Fifth Amendment. 253 U.S. pp. 334,
335. Suits brought to enforce the constitutional right to
just compensation are governed by the later decisions
which are directly in point.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion. *
Reversed.

MISSOURI

ET AL. v.

FISKE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27.

Argued October 18, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

1. A State may. waive, by appearing, its immunity as a sovereign
from being sued by individuals. P. 24.
2. But an intervention in a suit pending in a federal court, limited
to a request of the State that securities involved in that suit be
not distributed but be held in the registry until a claim of the State
in regard to them may be adjudicated in a proceeding begun by
the State in its own court, is not such an appearance as will subject the State to a litigation of the claim in the federal court. P. 25.

3. The Eleventh Amendment is an explicit limitation upon the judicial power of the United States, and applies to equitable demands
and remedies as well as to suits for money judgments. Pp. 25, 27.

MISSOURI v. FISKE.
18

Argument for Respondents.

4. Even for the protection of its own decree, and of property rights
thereby determined quasi in rem, a federal court can not entertain
a supplemental and ancillary bill against a State which has not
appeared in the litigation and does not consent to be sued. P. 27.
5. The claim that a decree of a federal court adjudicating the ownership of private property estops the State, though not a party,
from reopening the question in later inheritance tax procecdings
in its own court, and that the decree should be given that effect
as a matter of federal right, can be set up in the state courts,
and if i be there finally denied, the decision may be reviewable
by this Court. P. 29.
62 F. (2d) 150, reversed.

CERTIORAI, 289 U.S. 720, to review the reversal of a

decree dismissing a bill against the State of Missouri
to enjoin it from prosecution of a proceeding in the Probate Court. The Attorney General, and other law officials
of the State were joined as defendants in the courts below.
One of these, Miller, Circuit Attorney, joined with the
State in petitioning for certiorari.
Mr. Roy McKittrick, Attorney General of Missouri, and
Messrs. Gilbert Lamb and Powell B. McHaney, Assistant
Attorneys General, submitted for petitioners.
Mr. G. A. Buder, Jr., with whom Mr. Oscar E. Buder
was on the brief, for respondents.
Where a court of the United States is acting in a manner
ancillary to a decree which it has rendered in a cause over
which it had jurisdiction, the Eleventh Amendment does
not prevent it from granting relief against a State.
Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 200 U.S. 273;
Prout v. Starr, 188 U.S. 537.
In construing a provision of the Constitution, the Court
should inquire into and consider the origin of the provision and the history of the period during which it was
enacted, in order to determine its true purpose. Prigg v.
Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 610-611; Rhode Island v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondents.

290 UB.

Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 723; Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U.S. 41, 95; South Carolina v. United States, 199 U.S.
437, 456-7; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 560.
The purpose of the Eleventh Amendment was only to
prevent the courts of the United States from rendering
money judgments against the respective States in favor
of private individuals. It was not conceived to deprive
the federal courts of jurisdiction over the respective
States. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 406. Charles
Warren, The Supreme Court in United States History,
vol. 1, pp. 93-102.
When a party intervenes in litigation, he does so in
recognition of the jurisdiction of the court and the propriety of all orders and rulings of the court prior to the
intervention. French v. Capen, 105 U.S. 509, 525; Commercial Electrical Co. v. Curtis, 288 Fed. 657, 659; Rice
v. Durham Water Co., 91 Fed. 433, 434.
The removal of a case to the Supreme Court of the
United States for review of a judgment in favor of a
State does not constitute the commencement or prosecution of a suit against the State within the meaning of the
Eleventh Amendment. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264, 409-410.
The Eleventh Amendment merely confers a privilege,
which the State may waive by entering its voluntary appearance and submitting its rights to a federal court.
Clark v. Barnard, 108 U.S. 436, 447-448; Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 200 U.S. 273, 284, 291-292;
Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R. Co., 109 U.S. 446,
451-452.
Where property is in the custody of a court, any question which arises concerning the right of a State to tax
such property or to enforce a tax lien against it must be
presented to and decided by the court having such
custody. In re Tyler, 149 U.S. 164, 182-3.

MISSOURI v. FISKE.
18

Opinion of the Court.

The main litigation, to which the present matter is ancillary, was in the .nature of an action in rem, and the
property against which the State seeks to enforce its tax
lien was and is within the custody of the District Court.
Franz v. Buder, 11 F. (2d) 854, 859.
While the state courts and the courts of the United
States have concurrent jurisdiction, they are parts of entirely separate systems of jurisprudence, as much as the
courts of two foreign sovereign powers, and neither should
interfere with the jurisdiction of the other, especially
where one has acquired jurisdiction over, or custody of,
specific property. Covell v. Heyman, 111 U.S. 176, 182-3;
Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U.S. 254, 260-261.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
By an ancillary and supplemental bill of complaint in
the District Court of the United States, respondents
sought an injunction against the State of Missouri restraining the State from prosecuting certain proceedings
in the Probate Court of the City of St. Louis in relation
to the estate of Sophie Franz, deceased. The State appeared specially and moved to dismiss the bill upon the
ground, among others, that it was a suit against the State,
which had not consented to be sued, in violation of the
Eleventh Amendnient of the Federal Constitution. The
District Judge granted the motion upon that ground.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the order of dismissal, holding that the Eleventh Amendment was inapplicable, in the view that the ancillary and supplemental bill had been brought to prevent an interference
with the jurisdiction of the federal court. 62 F. (2d) 150.
The case comes here on certiorari, 289 U.S. 720.
The circumstances are these: By the will of Ehrhardt
D. Franz, who died in 1898, his property was left to his

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

wife, Sophie Franz, for life, with remainder to his ten
children. The will was probated in the Probate Court
of the City of St. Louis.

In 1909, Sophie Franz trans-

ferred certain securities, in part belonging to her husband's
estate, to trustees to hold during her life. On its creation,
the trust embraced shares, belonging to her husband's
estate, which had been increased by stock dividends; later,
these shares were exchanged for shares of a successor
corporation and these were further increased by stock
dividends
There has been protracted litigation in relation to this
trust and the property held by the trustees. The present
suit was brought, in 1924, in the District Court of the
United States, by one of the sons of Ehrhardt D. Franz,
to determine and quiet his remainder interest and to
obtain an accounting and security for his protecti6n. Indispensable parties (owners of other remainder interests)
being absent, the original bill was dismissed. Franz v.
Buder, 11 F. (2d) 854, 858. An amended bill was filed
and the present respondents, who are children of Ehrhardt D. Franz and not residents of Missouri, were brought
in with others. On an ancillary bill, it appearing that the
federal court had first acquired jurisdiction over the subject matter in an action quasi in rem, defendants Sophie
Franz and her trustees were enjoined from prosecuting a
suit in the Circuit Court of the City of St. Louis for the
determination of the same issues. Franz v. Franz, 15 F.
(2d) 797. The present suit in the federal 'court then proceeded to decree, in 1927, which, with modifications as to
security and costs, was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the following year. Buder v. Franz, 27 F.
(2d) 101.
There is a question between the parties here as to the
scope of this decree, but we may assume, for the present
purpose; that this decree, as stated by the Circuit Court
of Appeals in the decision under review, 62 F. (2d) pp.

MISSOURI v. FISKE.
18

Opinion of the Court.

151, 153, 154, determined the rights of the present respondents by virtue of their remainders under the will of
Ehrhardt D. Franz. The decree, as thus construed, determined that certain shares, with their increase through
stock dividends, were corpus of the estate of Ehrhardt D.
Franz, and not income, and hence that Sophie Franz had
only a life interest. Id., 27 F. (2d) pp. 105, 113, 114.
Later, in 1930, Sophie Franz died, and her estate is in
the course of administration in the Probate Court of the
City of St. Louis. Her executor, in view of the decree
of the federal court, did not include the shares above mentioned in his inventory of her estate. Thereupon, in 1931,
the State of Missouri procured the issue, on behalf of the
State, of a citation in the Probate Court to compel the
executor to inventory these shares as assets of the estate
of Sophie Franz. The State of Missouri then moved in
the federal court for leave to intervene. The State set
forth the issue of the citation in the Probate Court; that
the respondents, and others in interest, were seeking in
the federal court to obtain distribution of the shares of
stock in question, and that, to protect the State's right
to inheritance taxes, intervention was necessary to oppose
that distribution pending the determination of the issues
involved in the proceeding in the Probate Court. The
application for intervention was granted.
The State then filed its intervening petition alleging
that the decree of the federal court, while finding. the interests in remainder of certain children of Ehrhardt D.
Franz, made no finding as to other children, and that the
latter, including the present respondents, although remaindermen, had "prior to the entry of said decree, by
diverse acts and by pleadings filed in this cause, extinguished, transferred and assigned their remainder interest to the life tenant, Sophie Franz "; that the stock in
question "should have been inventoried" and was subject "to the assessment and collection of inheritance taxes

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

of the State of Missouri under the terms of the will of
Sophie Franz," and that for these taxes the State had a
lien upon this stock. The petition prayed that a portion
of the stock should be transferred to the registry of the
federal court to be held until the Probate Court determined whether the stock should have been inventoried by
the executor of the estate of Sophie Franz. The present
respondents (with others) answered the petition in intervention denying that the decree of the federal court had
been limited as alleged and setting up their rights under
the decree as res judicata. They asked that the petition
be dismissed and that their motions for distribution be
sustained.
Shortly before filing this answer the present respondents brought their ancillary and supplemental bill of complaint to enjoin the State of Missouri from "prosecuting
further the said citation in the Probate Court" and" from
seeking or obtaining any order, decree, or judgment therein " until the further direction of the District Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in sustaining the jurisdiction of the District Court to entertain the bill for this
purpose, stated that the extent to which that jurisdiction
should be exercised was "the protection of the jurisdiction and decrees of the trial court "; that it did not extend to matters not involved in the main litigation. 62 F.
(2d) p. 157.
First. The first question is whether the State has waived
the immunity it now claims. Immunity from suit under
the Eleventh Amendment is a personal privilege which
may be waived. Clark v. Barnard,108 U.S. 436, 447, 448;
Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 200 U.S. 273, 284.
It may be waived by a voluntary proceeding in intervention (Clark v. Barnard,supra) and the question is as to
the effect of the State's application to intervene in this
suit. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that it did not

MISSOURI v. FISKE.
18

Opinion of the Court.

amount to a waiver, but the respondents press the question in supporting the decree under review.
While the motion of the State was for leave to intervene
as "a party defendant," the Circuit Court of Appeals
pointed out that by the petition in intervention the State
did not seek the determination " of any rights or title," that
it expressly pleaded "that such determination will take
place in theProbate Court," and that the only relief asked
was that the federal court should not distribute the stock
from the trustees to the present respondents but should
"place it in its registry to abide the result of the determination of the rights of the State by the Probate Court."
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the opinion that the
only purpose and result of the intervention would be to
retain the stock within Missouri in a place where it could
be made to respond to the tax claims of the State if these
claims were upheld. In determining the question presented to it on the appeal, the court was not concerned
with the propriety of allowing the intervention for that
purpose or with its legal classification as pro interesse auo
or otherwise. As only- a "temporary impounding" was
sought, which was "in no sense a matter of right, but
rather partakes of grace," the court concluded that the
intervention was too limited in character to constitute a
waiver of the immunity given by. the Amendment, if that
immunity would otherwise exist. 62 F. (2d) pp. 152, 153.
We think that the Circuit Court of Appeals was right.
Second. The Eleventh Amendment is an explicit limitation of the judicial power of the United States. "The
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed
to extend to any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens of another State or by citizens or subjects of any foreign State."
However important that power, it cannot extend into the
forbidden sphere. Considerations of convenience open no

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

avenue of escape from the restriction. The " entire judicial power granted by the Constitution does not embrace
authority to entertain a suit brought by private parties
against a State without consent given." Ex parte New
York, 256 U.S. 490, 497. Such a suit cannot be entertained upon the ground that the controversy arises under
the Constitution or laws of the United States. Hans v.
Louisiana, 134 U.S. 1, 10; Palmerv. Ohio, 248 U.S. 32, 34;
Duhne v. New Jersey, 251 U.S. 311, 313, 314.
The ancillaty and supplemental bill is brought by the
respondents directly against the State of Missouri. It is
not a proceeding within the principle that suit may be
brought against state officers to restrain an attempt to
enforce an unconstitutional enactment. That principle is
that the exemption of States from suit does not protect
their officers from personal liability to those whose rights
they have wrongfully invaded. Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U.S.
204; Prout v. Starr, 188 U.S. 537, 543; Gunter v. Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co., supra; Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123,
150 et seq. Here, respondents are proceeding against the
State itself -to prevent the exercise of its authority to
maintain a suit in its own court.
The proceeding by ancillary and supplemental bill to
restrain the State from this exercise of authority is
unquestionably a "suit." Said Chief Justice Marshall in
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 407, 408: "What is a
suit? We understand it to be the prosecution, or pursuit,
of some claim, demand, or request. In law language, it
is the prosecution of some demand in a Court of justice. . . . To commence a suit is to demand something
by the institution of process in a Court of justice; and to
prosecute the suit, is, according to the common acceptation of language, to continue that demand. By a suit
commenced by an individual against a State, we should
understand process sued out by that individual against

MISSOURI v. FISKE.
18

Opinion of the Court.

the State for the purpose of establishing some claim
against it by the judgment of a Court; and the prosecution
of that suit is its continuance. ' The fact that the motive
for the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment was to quiet
grave apprehensions that were extensively entertained
with respect to the prosecution of state debts in the federal courts cannot be regarded, as respondents seem to
argue, as restricting the scope of the Amendment to suits
to obtain money judgments. The terms of the Amendment, notwithstanding the chief motive for its adoption,
were not so limited. Expressly applying to suits in equity
as well as at law, the Amendment necessarily embraces
demands for the enforcement of equitable rights and the
prosecution of equitable remedies when these are asserted
and prosecuted by an individual against a State. This
conception of the Amendment has had abundant illustration. Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U.S. 711, 720; Hagood v.
Southern, 117 U.S. 52, 67; In re Ayers, 123 U.S. 443, 497;
Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U.S. 516, 529.
Respondents' bill asserts a right to maintain their interests as remaindermen under the will of Ehrhardt D. Franz
with respect to certain shares of stock against an attempt
of the State to lay inheritance taxes on these shares as the
property of Sophie Franz, the deceased life tenant. In
order to enforce this asserted right respondents bring their
bill to obtain the equitable remedy of injunction against
the State. This is not less a suit against the State because
the bill is ancillary and. supplemental. The State had not
been a party to the litigation which resulted in the decree
upon which respondents rely. The State has not come
into the suit for the purpose of litigating the rights asserted. Respondents are attempting to subject the State,
without its consent, to the court's process.
The question, then, is whether the purpose to protect
the jurisdiction of the federal court, and to maintain its

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

decree against the proceeding of the State in the state
court, removes the suit from the application of the Eleventh Amendment. No warrant is found for such a limitation of its terms. The exercise of the judicial power
cannot be protected by judicial action which the Constitution specifically provides is beyond the judicial power.
Thus, when it appears that a State is an indispensable
party to enable a federal court to grant relief sought by
private parties, and the State has not consented to be sued,
the court will refuse to take jurisdiction. Cunningham v.
Macon & Brunswick R. Co., 109 U.S. 446, 451, 457; In re
Ayers, supra, p. 489; Christianv. Atlantic & N. C. R. Co.,
133 U.S. 233, 244; Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U.S. 508, 518;
South Carolina v. Wesley, 155 U.S. 542, 545; Belknap v.
Schild, 161 U.S. 10, 20. And if a State, unless it consents,
cannot be brought into a suit by original bill, to enable a
federal court to acquire jurisdiction, no basis appears for
the contention that a State in the absence of consent may
be sued by means of an ancillary and supplemental bill
in order to enforce a decree.
The fact that a suit in a federal court is in rem, or quasi
in rem, furnishes no ground for the issue of process against
a non-consenting State. If the State chooses to come into
the court as plaintiff, or to intervene, seeking the enforcement of liens or claims, the State may be permitted to do
so, and in that event its rights will receive the same consideration as those of other parties in interest. But when
the State does not come in and withholds its consent, the
court has no authority to issue process against the State
to compel it to subject itself to the court's judgment,
whatever the nature of the suit. See The Siren, 7 Wall.
152, 154; The Davis, 10 Wall. 15, 19; Georgia v. Jesup,
106 U.S. 458, 462; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R.
Co., supra, p. 452. Ex parte New York, supra, pp. 497500.

MISSOURI v. FISKE.
18

Opinion of the Court.

We express no opinion upon the question whether the
decree of the District Court, entered during the lifetime
of Sophie Franz, the life tenant, in this suit to which she,
her trustees and the remaindermen were parties, can be regarded as binding upon the State of Missouri with respect
to its subsequent claim for inheritance taxes against the
shares in controversy as a part of the life tenant's estate.
That question is not before us. Whatever may be found
to be the effect of this decree in that relation, the result
is the same so far as the present question of the right of
respondents to bring this bill against the State is concerned. If the State, by reason of the fact that it was not
a party to the litigation, is not bound by the decree, it is
manifestly free to litigate its claim to the taxes in the proceeding it has instituted in its own court. United States v.
Lee, 106 U.S. 196, 222; Tindal v. Wesley, supra, p. 223;
McClellan v. Carland,217 U.S. 268, 282. But if the decree
of the federal court can be considered as determining the
ownership of the shares so as to bind the State in later tax
proceedings upon the death of the life tenant and there is
a federal right to have that effect given to the decree, that
federal right can be specially set up and claimed in the
proceeding in the state court, and, if the right is finally
denied" the decision may be the subject of review by this
Court in case the appropriate procedure is followed.
Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank Co., 215 U.S. 33, 46.
See Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U.S. 43. The contention that the
question of ownership of the shares has been finally determined by the federal cort affords no ground for the conclusion that the federal court may entertain a suit against
the State, without its consent, to prevent the State from
seeking to litigate that question in the state court.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to the District Court with directioils to dismiss the ancillary and supplemental bill.
Reversed.

