264

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

The statutes terminate seamen's right to wages with the
termination of their service by the shipwreck, and without
qualification impose on the government the obligation to
transport them. It cannot be supposed that the performance of this obligation, which since the early days of
the government has been treated by Congress as a public
duty, was intended to be conditional upon the ability of
seamen, left destitute in a distant land, to induce the shipowner to transport them in performance of a supposed
duty which the statute neither imposes nor mentions.
The Department of Commerce, not the Comptroller
General, is charged with the administration of the statute,
4 Comptroller General Rep., 252, 253, and its administrative practice should be followed if thought to be controlling. But in any case, there is no ambiguity or uncertainty in the statute with respect to the point urged by
the government, and, in carrying it out as written, there
is no administrative difficulty which would call for construction. The rulings of the Comptroller General rest
upon a proposition so plainly contrary to law and so
plainly in conflict with the statute as to leave them without weight as adIninistrative constructions of it. United
States v. MissouriPacific R. Co., supra..
Reversed.
CENTRAL

KENTUCKY

NATURAL

GAS CO. v.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 11.

Argued November 7, 1933.--Decided December 4, 1933.

1. Where a contract between a public utility and a city provides that
the utility shall set its own rates in the first instance, subject to

the right of the city, if it deems them excessive, to take proceedings to have just and reasonable rates fixed by a state commission
in accordance with the statutes of the State, rates so found and

CENTRAL KENTUCKY CO. v. COMM'N.
264

265

Statement of the Case.

prescribed by the commission are not to be deemed rates fixed by
the contract, or by an arbitration of their dispute, but are rates
fixed by the State, the enforcement of which, if confiscatory, is
subject to be restrained by a federal court as an infraction of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 269.
2. District Courts of the United States may set aside a confiscatory
rate prescribed by state authority because forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment, but they are without authority to prescribe
rates, both because that is a function reserved to the State, and
because it is not one within the judicial power conferred upon
them by the Constitution. P. 271.
3. The power to attach conditions to decrees of federal courts enjoining state rates should be cautiously exercised. P. 272.
4. The District Court found a state rate on gas confiscatory but
declined to restrain its enforcement unless the complaining utility
would accept another rate, somewhat higher, found reasonable by
the court but protested by the utility, and would furthermore consent that collections in excess of the latter rate which had been
impounded by the court and by state authorities during the controversy, should be distributed in due proportions to the utility's
patrons. Held, an improper exercise of the power to affix conditions. Pp. 270-273.
5. Where the findings of the District Court as to the adequacy of a
rate prescribed by a state commission all related to a time long
antedating the decree, without regard to later increases in the expenses of the public utility, shown by the record, or profound economic changes affecting values, costs, etc., of which judicial notice
may be taken, this Court, though satisfied that the weight of the
evidence sustains the conclusion that the rate was unreasonable at
the time referred to, directs that the decree of injunction to be
entered shall be expressly without prejudice to the right of the
commission to fix a just and reasonable rate and that it shall not
adjudge the validity of the rate enjoined in so far as affected by
such changed conditions. P. 275.
60 F. (2d) 137, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court (three
judges) which denied a permanent injunction in a suit
to restrain the enforcement of a rate on gas, and which
directed that collections impounded during the suit in excess of a rate found reasonable by the District Court
should be returned to the consumers who paid them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Mr. Henry T. Duncan, with whom Messrs. Dyke L.
Hazelrigg and Chester J. Gerkin were on the brief, for
appellant.
%
Mr. Robert H. Winn, with whom Mr. Bailey P. Wootton, Attorney General of Kentucky, and Messrs. C. M.
Harbison and S. H. Brown were on the brief, for the Railroad Commission of Kentucky and the City of Lexington,
appellees.
Mr. Joseph A. Edge, with whom Messrs. Maurice H.
Thatcher, John H. Connaughton, and Raymond M. Hudson were on the brief, for Hignight et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit in equity, brought by appellant, a Kentucky corporation, in the District Court for Eastern Kentucky, against th state Railroad Commission, certain state
officers, and the city of Lexington, to set aside as confiscatory a rate prescribed by the Commission for the sale of
natural gas distributed by appellant through its pipe lines
to consumers in Lexington. The district court, of three
judges, found the rate confiscatory, but refused to enjoin it
because of the failure of the appellant to conform to a condition prescribed by the court as prerequisite to granting
the injunction. 60 F. (2d) 137. From this decree the
present appeal was taken under § 266 of the Judicial
Code, 28 IT.S.C.A., § 380.
In 1905 the appellant had secured a twenty-year franchise for the distribution of natural gas to consumers
through its pipe lines in the City of Lexington. After
the expiration of the franchise on September 5, 1925, and
pursuant to ordinance of the City of Lexington of January
28, 1927, the appellant became the purchaser, at public
sale, of a new franchise to distribute natural gas to consumers in Lexington, upon the terms and conditions of a
written contract between .ippellant and the city, which

CENTRAL KENTUCKY CO. v. COMM'N.
264

267

Opinion of the Court.

was incorporated in the ordinance and became effective on
its acceptance by the city by ordinance of February 25,
1927.
The rate to be charged to consumers for gas was not
fixed by the franchise contract. It stipulated that the
gas supplied by appellant should be at just and reasonable rates, but it provided that, in the first instance, the
rates should be designated by appellant in writing, by a
rate schedule, filed with the mayor of the city and the
Railroad Commission, and that if the city should consider
the scheduled rates in excess of just and reasonable rates,
it should, within a time specified, institute proceedings
before the Railroad Commission to have a just and reasonable rate found and prescribed by it in accordance
with the applicable statutes of the State. It was also
agreed by the franchise contract that pending proceedings
before the Commission and "subsequent proceedings in
court," for the determination of a just and reasonable
rate, the appellant should charge its patrons a temporary
rate of 500 per thousand feet for gas consumed until such
time as it should furnish certain increased pipe line service, required by the franchise, after which, and during
the proceedings for fixing the rate, the temporary rate
should be increased to 60 per thousand feet; that pending such proceedings 10 of the rate collected from customers, whether 500 or 600, should be impounded under
the direction of the Commission and that at their conclusion "the Commission or the court" should distribute
the impounded fund in accordance with the respective
interests in it of appellant and its consumers.
Acting under the provisions of the franchise contract,
appellant promulgated a schedule of rates on February.26,
1927, whereupon the city, on March 25, 1927, lodged a
complaint with the Railroad Commission assailing the
scheduled rates as excessive, and asked that it establish
a just and reasonable rate. The Commission directed
that 100 of the temporary rate collected by appellants

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

from consumers should be impounded with a custodian,
appointed by the Commission, to receive and hold it pending final determination of the rate. In December, 1927,
while the proceeding before the Commission was pending,
the additional pipe line service required by the franchise
was brought into operation and the prescribed temporary
rate- of 600 per thousand was established. Hearings were
had and the proceedings continued before the Commission, which resulted in its order of October 9, 1929, assailed here, which fixed 45¢ per thousand as a just and
reasonable rate and directed appropriate preliminary
steps for the distribution of the impounded fund.
The bill in the present suit assails the 450 rate as confiscatory and hence an infringement of appellant's immunity under the Fourteenth Amendment, and contains
allegations showing that appellant will be irreparably
injured if the rate becomes effective. It prays that the
respondents be restrained from carrying out the order of
the Commission, and asks payment over to appellant of
the impounded fund. The district court, by interlocutory injunction, enjoined any further proceedings under
the order, and appointed as receiver the custodian of the
fund impounded by direction of the Commission, to receive apd hold, subject to the further order of the court,
any fund required to be impounded by the franchise
contract subsequent to the order of the Commission, and
directed appellant, pending the final decree, to pay over
to the receiver 100 of the 60W rate which it should collect
from its patrons.
After a hearing and consideration of the evidence, the
court found that the 45¢ rate was confiscatory, that a rate
of 50¢ would be just and reasonable, and directed that a
permanent injunction issue restraining the imposition of
the 45¢ rate, but upon the condition that appellant file
with the court its consent that the fund impounded from
the rate collected in excess of 50¢ per thousand be distrib-

CENTRAL KENTUCKY CO. v. COMM'N.
264

269

Opinion of the Court.

uted to such of its patrons as were entitled to share in it,
and that it file with the Railroad Commission and with
the Fayette Circuit Court of Kentucky its written consent
that those tribunals make like orders of distribution of all
funds in excess of the 50 rate which had been impounded
and held by their orders. As appellant declined to consent
to such distribution of the funds, final decree was entered
denying the prayer for a permanent injunction, and directing that the fund impounded with the receiver be distributed among the consumers in proportion to their
respective contributions to it.
From this decree appellant alone has appealed. While
relying on the findings of the court below that the 450 rate
is confiscatory, it challenges the finding that the 500 rate
is just and reasonable, and upon that ground assails the
provision of the decree directing distribution to the consumers of the impounded fifnds made up of collections in
excess of the 50¢ rate. It also attacks the denial of a permanent injunction because of appellant's refusal to assent
to the distribution of the impounded funds on the basis of
that rate. Respondents, while resisting each of these contentions, seek also to sustain the decree denying the injunction- on the ground that the 450 rate is not confiscatory. See Langnes v. Green, 282 U.S. 531; United States v.
American Railway Express Co., 265 U.S. 425.
1. There being no diversity of citizenship of the parties
to the litigation, the jurisdiction of the district court to
enjoin the 450 rate prescribed by the Commission is dependent wholly upon the allegations in the bill that the
rate assailed was one prescribed by state authority and
violates the Fourteenth Amendment because confiscatory.
If the rate were fixed by agreement of the parties disclosed
by the franchise contract exhibited in the bill, or if it were
fixed by the Commission, acting as an arbitrator pursuant
to agreement of the parties thus deriving its authority
from the contract, it is plain that no federal question would

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

be presented. Georgia Ry. & Power Co. v. Decatur, 262
U.S. 432, 438; Columbus Ry. & Power Co. v. Columbus,
249. U.S. 399.
But the 45¢ rate was not one prescribed by the contract.
By its terms the only effect of the contract upon rates,
other than the temporary rates in force pending the proceedings before the Commission, was to allow the appellant to promulgate a schedule of rates which were to be
effective unless, within a time specified, the city should
proceed under the laws of the state to have a rate prescribed by public authority. By §§ 201e-2, 201e-5,
201e-11, 201e-14 of the Kentucky statutes the Railroad
Commission is clothed with the authority of the state to
fix rates for the distribution of natural gas by public service companies and is required, upon complaint, to fix just
and reasonable rates. It derived its power to fix the rate
in the present case, not from the agreement of the parties
to this litigation, but from the state legislature. It was
that power which the city called into action by its complaint to the Commission that the rates designated in appellant's rate schedule were excessive. The rate, being
prescribed by state authority, was, if confiscatory, an infringement of constitutional limitations. The case made
by the bill was, therefore, within the jurisdiction of the
court below, and called for its determination of the constitutional issue presented.
2. While the jurisdiction of the court was invoked to
enjoin the rate because confiscatory, it nevertheless denied
any relief from the imposition of the 45¢ rate which it had
found to be confiscatory, and directed the return to appellant's patrons of the fund impounded from the collections made in excess of the 500 rate. The basis of this
action was the finding by the court that the 500 rate was
just and reasonable, from which it concluded that the
appellant was not entitled to retain any amounts collected
from its consumers in excess of that rate, and that the

CENTRAL KENTUCKY CO. v. COMM'N.
264

271

Opinion of the Court.

court might, in its discretion, deny any equitable relief
since the appellant itself had refused to do equity by
consenting to the rate which the court deemed just and
reasonable.
The power of a court of equity, in the exercise of a
sound discretion, to grant, upon equitable conditions, the
extraordinary relief to which a plaintiff would otherwise
be entitled, without condition, is undoubted. It may refuse its aid to him who seeks relief from an illegal tax
or assessment unless he will do equity by paying that
which is conceded to be due. State Railroad Tax Cases,
92 U.S. 575; Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U.S. 153;
Peoples National Bank v. Marye, 191 U.S. 272, 287; see
Norwood v. Baker, 172 U.S. 269, 294. It may withhold
from a plaintiff the complete relief to which he would
otherwise be entitled if the defendant is willing to give
in its stead such substituted relief as, under the special
circumstances of the case, satisfies the requirements of
equity and good conscience. Harrisonvillev. Dickey Clay
Co., 289 U.S. 334, 338. It may prescribe the performance
of conditions designed to protect the rights of the parties
pending appeal, Hovey v. McDonald, 109 U.S. 150, 157,
or to protect temporarily the public interest while its decree is being carried into effect. See Consolidated Gas
Co. v. Newton, 267 Fed. 231, 273; Newton v. Consolidated
Gas Co., 258 U.S. 165.
There are nevertheless some limitations upon the extent
to which a federal court of equity may properly go in prescribing such conditional relief, which are inherent in the
nature of the jurisdiction which it exercises. District
courts may set aside a confiscatory rate prescribed by
state authority because forbidden by the Fourteenth
Amendment, but they are without authority to prescribe
rates, both because that is a function reserved to the
state, and because it is not one within the judicial power
conferred upon them by the Constitution. See Newton

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

v. Consolidated Gas Co., supra; Reagan v. Farmers Loan
& Trust Co., 154 U.S. 362, 397; Honolulu Rapid Transit
& Land Co. v. Hawaii,211 U.S. 282; cf. Keller v. Potomac
Electric Power Co., 261 U.S. 428; O'Donoghue v. United
States, 289 U.S. 516.
This Court has warned that the power to attach conditions to decrees enjoining state rates should be cautiously exercised. Newton v. ConsolidatedGas Co., supra,
175. the practical effect of a denial of relief unless the
plaintiff will submit to a rate, the reasonableness of which
he challenges, is to make the surrender of the right to
invoke a distinctively state legislative function the price
of justice in the federal courts. The practice would tend
to curtail the exercise of that function by action of a
court which is itself without authority either to exercise
it or to prevent the state from doing so. Such interference with the legislative function is not a proper exercise
of the discretionary powers of a federal court of equity.
See Honolulu Rapid Transit & Land Co. v. Hawaii,supra.
Such a condition, too, is different from the requirement
that a plaintiff shall pay a tax, the amount of which is
known and conceded to be due, as a condition of enjoining an excessive tax. In Norwood v. Baker, supra, 291,
294, this Court pointed out that it would be improper, as
a condition of enjoining an unconstitutional special assessment levied by a state authority, to require the plaintiff
to tender the amount of such assessment as the court
should consider might lawfully be made by state action
not yet taken. In Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., supra,
where the legislature was not in session and had not delegated its power to fix rates, the court sustained a decree
enjoining a rate as confiscatory on condition that the
plaintiff should impound the rate collected in excess of
the confiscatory rate until a specified date, after the assembly of the legislature, or until a new rate should be
fixed by state authority. But the condition was approved

CENTRAL KENTUCKY CO. v. COMM'N.
264

273

Opinion of the Court.

on the ground that. its practical effect was to preserve
the rights of the parties pending the appeal.
Here the rate-making body, the Railroad Commission,
is free to perform its function of fixing a just and reasonable rate as soon as the confiscatory rate is enjoined. The
rights of the parties are fully protected both by the provision of the franchise contract and the order of the Commission in the proceedings brought to fix the rate, not
yet terminated, requiring collections by appellant in excess of the 500 rate to be impounded with the custodian.
The condition imposed here was not calculated to protect
the rights of the parties pending *an appeal "or further
action by the rate-making body. Compliance with it
would have involved the surrender of rights asserted by
appellant to the funds impounded during a period of more
than five years. It would have made impossible any court
review of the condition, by appeal or otherwise.
In the circumstances, there was no occasion for the
court to draw upon its extraordinary equity powers to
attach any condition to its decree, and the condition which
it did attach was an unwarranted intrusion on the powers
of the Commission. On the basis of its conclusion that
the 450 rate was confiscatory, it should have granted appropriate relief, without condition, leaving the Commission free to exermise its authority to fix a reasonable rate,
and it should have relinquished its control over the impounded fund by directing the receiver to retain it, not
as receiver, but in his capacity as custodian appointed by
the Commission, to await its action in fixing a lawful
rate.
3. The court below based its conclusion that the 450
rate was confiscatory and that the 50¢ rate would be just
and reasonable upon a valuation of the property included
in the rate base as of December 31, 1926, a date shortly
preceding the effective date of the franchise, which was
February 25, 1927. In choosing this date for establishing

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

the rate base the court acted upon consent of the parties,
which it interpreted as requiring it to make as of that
date all findings and determinations having a bearing upon
the effect of the 450 rate and the reasonableness of the
50¢. rate. Although the case was not ready for final decree until September, 1932, and the decree, like the Commission's order, spoke for the future as well as for the
past, the findings upon which it rested were thus restricted to the date which, for all practical purposes, may
be treated as the effective date of the franchise.
In making the findings as of December 31, 1926, the
court considered evidbnce, tending to support them, of
earnings and other relevant data during a number of years
preceding that date and the year following. In that year
the temporary 500 rate was in force until December, and
until that time no substantial change was shown in the
conditions affecting the propriety of the rate fixed by the
Commission from those prevailing on December 31, 1926.
But by December, 1927, the additional pipe line service
which, by the franchise, appellant was required to furnish, had been brought into operation and the agreed
temporary rate of 6 00 was established. Before that date
the rates paid by appellant for gas purchased for its service from producers had ranged from 100 to 200 per thousand feet. But the additional pipe line service was procured by contract with another company by which appellant agreed to purchase annually 750 million feet of gas
at 400 per thousand. As the court considered itself restricted to findings as of December, 1926, it declined to
take into account the effect of the increased cost of gas
under this contract in making findings as to the propriety
of the Commission's rate. That restriction also necessarily excluded from consideration the profound changes
in values, costs of service, consumption of commodities
and reasonable return on invested capital which we
judicially know took place during the period of more
than five years while the case was pending before the

CENTRAL KENTUCKY CO. v. COMM'N.
264

275

Opinion of the Court.

Commission and the court. See Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 284 U.S. 248.
It is apparent that any decree to be entered here, based
on findings so restricted, must be similarly restricted in its
operation, and should speak of the validity of the Commission's rate only as of a time approximating the date
when the franchise became effective. Respondents assail
the court's findings that the 45¢ rate was confiscatory and
that the 50¢ rate was reasonable, and its findings of value
and of the amount to be allowed as a deduction from gross
revenue for amortization of the appellant's plants. So far
as these objections and others are addressed to the weight
of the evidence, we are satisfied that the evidence supports
the findings as restricted in the manner already indicated.
In view of the limited effect which must be given to any
decree to be entered, we have no occasion to consider these
objections in any other aspect.
The decree will be reversed and the cause remanded,
with instructions to enter a decree enjoining so much of.
the Commission's order as fixes the rate to be charged for
gas distributed by appellant to consumers, and relinquishing any further control by the court or its receiver over the
impounded fund in his hands, by directing that he shall
continue to hold such fund, not as receiver, but in his capacity as custodian for the Railroad Commission. The decree will state that it is without prejudice to the right and
power of the Commission to fix a just and reasonable rate,
and that it makes no adjudication of the validity of the
45¢ rate fixed by the Commission, so far as it may be affected by changed conditions after February 25, 1927, the
effective date of appellant's franchise. Costs, other than
in this Court, will be awarded in the discretion of the court
below.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

