OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

2. The Heater Company contends that, if the notes are
not to be paid in full, it should receive a sum much larger
than its distributive share of the purchase price paid by
the new corporation. Unlike the Bank, it does not argue
that the court was obliged to make an independent investigation into the value of the assets before fixing the upset
price. Its contentions are that the Heater Company
should not be prejudiced by its own failure to introduce
evidence on that issue since it had no notice or knowledge
of the hearing; that, moreover, the gross inadequacy of
the price paid was due to the fact that, instead of aiming
to secure for non-assenting creditors the largest possible
sum in cash, the court treated the receivers' sale as merely
a necessary step in effectuating the Plan of Reorganization; and hence adopted a method of selling which excluded all bidders except the Reorganization Committee.
We have no occasion to discuss this argument in detail.
For the reasons stated in connection with the Bank's
claim, we think that the sale was made at a grossly inadequate price; and that it was invalid also as to the Heater
Company. Like the Bank, the Heater Company is entitled to receive in cash its distributive share of the
amount which, upon the new appraisal, shall be found to
have been the fair selling value of the assets.
In Nos. 62, 63 and 64, decree reversed as to petitioners.
In No. 65, decree modified, and as modified affirmed.
FIX, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.
PHILADELPHIA BARGE CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 153. Argued December 13, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.
Though an action brought by a collector of internal revenue on a
bond running to him or his successors will abate upon his resigna-

FIX v. PHILA. BARGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

530

tion unless a successor is substituted as provided by the Act of
February 13, 1925, the cause of action survives and may be enforced by a successor through another action. P. 533.
63 F. (2d) 258, reversed.

CERTIOR AI* to review the affirmance of a judgment
sustaining a plea to an action by a collector of internal
revenue on a bond given as security for taxes. 60 F. (2d)
333.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Messrs. Sewall Key,
J. P. Jackson, and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas P. Mikell, with whom Mr. Walter Biddle
Saul was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action originally brought by MacLaughlin,
a collector of internal revenue, in a federal district court,
against respondents, to recover on a bond conditioned for
the payment of such income taxes assessed against the
Barge Company as should remain unabated after consideration of a claim for abatement by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. The obligee named in the bond is
Ephraim Lederer, collector of internal revenue when the
bond was executed, "or his successors." MacLaughlin
having died, the case was first revived in the name of
Ladner, and upon his resignation, in the name of petitioner. All three, in turn, succeeded to the office held by
Lederer.
In the district court the surety company filed an affidavit of defense, incorporating a plea that the cause of
action upon the bond had abated, and had been lost, by
failure to comply with ยง 11 of the Act of February 13,
1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 941; U.S.C., Title 28, ยง 780.
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

In support of that contention, the plea alleges that suit
in assumpsit on the same bond had been brought by one
McCaughn, the first successor of Lederer; that, pending
the suit, McCaughn resigned as collector; that judgment
nevertheless was thereafter entered in his favor; and that
subsequently, upon a suggestion of abatement of the cause
of action, an order was entered striking the judgment from
the record by reason of the fact that the action upon
which the judgment was rendered had abated prior to
0
the entry thereof.
The district court held that since one suit, brought by
a successor of the original obligee, had abated by reason
of the failure of the government to make substitution
under the act of 1925, there resulted an abatement of the
cause of action as well as of the writ. 60 F. (2d) 333.
Upon the basis of this ruling and upon a praecipe filed
by the United States attorney, final judgment was entered
against the collector, which judgment was affirmed by the
circuit court of appeals. 63 F. (2d) 258.
Respondents raise some question as to the right of the
petitioner to appeal to the court below, but the point
is so obviously without merit that we do not stop to state
or discuss it.
Section 11 of the Act of 1925, so far as pertinent, provides that where, during the pendency of an action brought
by or against an officer of the United States, relating to
the present or future discharge of his official duties, such
officer dies, resigns, or otherwise ceases to hold office, it
shall be competent for the court where the action is pending, "to permit the cause to be continued and maintained
by or against the successor in office of such officer, if within
six months after his death or separation from the office
it be satisfactorily shown to the court that there is a substantial need for so continuing and maintaining the cause
and obtaining an adjudication of the questions involved."
The original act on the subject, of which the act of 1925

FIX v. PHILA. BARGE CO.
530

Opinion of the Court.

is an amplification, was passed February 8, 1899, c. 121,
30 Stat. 822, evidently in response to a suggestion of this
court in U.S. ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth, 169 U.S.
600, decided in 1898. See Murphy v. Utter, 186 U.S. 95,
101; Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker, 196 U.S. 432, 440442; Irwin v. Wright, 258 U.S. 219, 222. In the Butterworth case it was held that a suit to compel the Commissioner of Patents to issue a patent was abated by the death
of the commissioner; and that it could not be revived, in
the name of his successor, even with the latter's consent.
The court suggested that in view of the inconvenience
occasioned by this state of the law, it would seem desirable
that Congress should provide for the difficulty by enacting
that in such cases it should be lawful for the successor in
office to be brought into the case. The purpose of the
act, as explained in the House committee report (H.Rep.
No. 960, 55 Cong., 2d Sess.), and by the member of tlhe
House who reported the bill from the committee (Cong.
Rec., Vol. 31, Pt. 4, pp. 3865-3866), was to permit the
suit to survive and avoid the necessity of compelling a
party to commence a new action against the successor in
office.
The act is purely remedial, designed to remove what
this court in the Butterworth case called an "inconvenience." Failure to comply with the statute forecloses
the particular remedy therein provided; it does not destroy the right. There is a clear difference between the
action and the cause of action. Revival of the action is
necessary because that does not survive the death or resignation of the officer by or against whom it has been
brought; but the cause of action may survive, depending
upon its nature and the applicable rule. See Sanders'
Adm'x v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 111 Fed. 708, 710; Martin v. Wabash R. Co., 142 Fed. 650, 651. Compare Green
v. Watkins, 6 Wheat. 260; Henshaw v. Miller, 17 How.
212, 219; Warren v. Furstenheim,35 Fed. 691, 695. The

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

vice of the ruling below, and of the argument -here in
support of it, is the failure to give effect to this distinction. The present bond runs to each successor, as it ran
to the original obligee and with like effect; and, notwithstanding the termination of the latter's possession of the
office, the cause of action which arose in his favor survives for appropriate enforcement by his several successors. Tyler v. Hand, 7 How. 573; Bowers v. American
Surety Co., 30 F. (2d) 244. This accords with the policy
of the revival statute, as observed by Judge L. Hand in
the case last cited. A conclusion to the contrary would
subvert the purpose of the bond, which "is to create an
obligation in favor of the incumbents, as they succeed each
other."
Judgment reversed.
BURROUGHS

AND

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 434.

Argued December 5, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. The Federal Corrupt Practices Act of February 28, 1925, provides
that any political committee which accepts contributions or makes
expenditures for the purpose of influencing the election of presidential or vice-presidential electors in two or more States, or (with
certain exceptions), as subsidiary of a national committee, shall
have a chairman and treasurer; that the treasurer, among other
duties, shall keep detailed and exact accounts of all contributions
made to or for the committee; that every person who receives a
contribution for the committee shall render to the treasurer a detailed account thereof, with specified particulars; and that the
treasurer shall file with the Clerk of the House of Representatives,
at designated times, a statement containing the name and address
of each contributor, and other particulars, complete as of the day
next preceding the date of filing. Violations of the Act are made
substantive crimes. Held within the power of Congress. P. 544.
2. The Act seeks to protect the purity of presidential and vice-presidential elections; it is confined to situations which are beyond the
power of a State to deal with adequately, if at all; and neither in

