326

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
290 U.S.

Syllabus.

On its face the opinion is inconsistent, for under the
second clause of § 7052, if the husband's negligence were
concurrent with that of the railroad's employees the plaintiff might recover, although her damages would be diminished by reason of the concurring negligence of the
decedent. In order to defeat her, it must be found that
his negligence was the sole proximate cause of his death.
But if that be found, it is impossible to understand how
the same negligence could be a concurring and proximate
cause with the negligence of the train crew in bringing
about the deaths of the children. And the converse is
true; for if both concurrently participated in causing
the accident, it is impossible to see how the negligence
of either could be the s616 proximate cause of the result.
Plainly one of the two holdings is erroneous; but it is
not our province to examine the testimony and determine which is correct. This should be done below. The.
judgments are reversed and the cases remanded to the
Circuit Court of Appeals with instructions to determine
whether the evidence justified the direction of verdicts on
the ground that the deceased husband's negligence was
the sole proximate cause of the collision, or required a
submission of that question, and the question of concurrent negligence to the jury; and to enter judgments
accordingly.
Reversed.

GIBBES v. ZIMMERMAN

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 117.

Argued November 17, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. The question whether a state law violates the contract clause of
the Federal -Constitution can not be considered on appeal from a
state court, where the appellant did not rely upon or mention that
clause in his pleadings but invoked only provisions of the state
constitution respecting contract obligations, and where the state
court did not discuss or mention it in disposing of the case. P. 328.

GIBBES v. ZIMMERMAN.
326

327

Counsel for Parties.

2. Under the laws of South Carolina prior to March 9, 1933, the
remedy of depositors of an insolvent bank for the enforcement of
the stockholders' statutory liability was through a receiver, whose
duty it was to enforce this liability for the benefit of creditors and
depositors. An Act of that date granted to the Governor plenary
power over all state banks, and prohibited suits against them without the Governor's consent as long as he remained in control.
Under regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act, the Governor
was authorized to appoint a conservator for any bank in order to
conserve its assets for the benefit of depositors and creditors;
conservators tFlus appointed were to have all the powers of
receivers, and the rights of all parties were to be the same as
though a receiver had been appointed. A later act empowered the
Governor to order the liquidation of banks by conservators, when
necessary to protect depositors and creditors; the powers and
duties of conservators to this end being those of a receiver. The
substantive rights under the old law were preserved. Held, the
legislation, as applied to a depositor who sought the appointment of
a receiver for an insolvent bank, of which a conservator was in
possession, does not deprive him of property without due process
of law under the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 329, 332.
3. Although a vested cause of action is property and is protected
from arbitrary interference, there is no property right, in the constitutional sense, in any particular form of remedy. All that the
Fourteenth Amendment guarantees is the preservation of a substantial right to redress by some effective procedure. P. 332.
4. Inasmuch as any depletion of the assets which might have resulted
from the acceptance and handling of special trust deposits by the
conservator was abated for the future by an order of the Governor
directing liquidation, and no present advantage could accrue from
the ousting of the conservator and the appointment of a receiver,
the case in this aspect is moot. P. 333.
171 S.C. 209; 172 S.E. 130, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decision of the Supreme Court of South
Carolina granting a writ of prohibition to stay a proceeding in equity for the appointment of a receiver for
an insolvent bank.
Mr. D. W. Robinson for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Mr. Irvine F. Belser, with whom Mr. John M. Daniel,
Attorney General of South Carolina, was on the brief,
for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This appeal brings here for review an order of the
Supreme Court of South Carolina prohibiting the further
prosecution of a bill in equity seeking the appointment
of a receiver for The Central Union Bank. An Act of the
General Assembly, approved March 9, 1933, was held to
forbid the maintenance of the proceeding. The appellant,
who was plaintiff in the suit, asserts that the Act impairs
the obligation of contract, in violation of the Constitution of the United States. We cannot consider this contention, since in his pleading the appellant relied solely
on the provisions of the state constitution with respect
to the obligation of contracts, and made no reference to
§ 10, of Article 1 of the Federal Constitution; and the Supreme Court, in disposing of the case, did not mention
or discuss that section. R.S. § 709; U.S.C. Tit. 28, § 344;
Chicago & N.W. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 164 U.S. 454, 457;
Levy v. Superior Court, 167 U.S. 175, 177; Miller v. Cornwall R. Co., 168 U.S. 131, 134; Bowe v. Scott, 233 U.S.
658, 665.
The statute was also assailed below, and is challenged
here, as depriving the appellant of the due process guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. A brief statement of the facts is requisite to an understanding of appellant's argument. Prior to March 9, 1933, the statutory
provision as to state banks was, in summary, this: A
state official, known as a bank examiner, had general supervision of the operation of these institutions. If a bank
became embarrassed or insolvent, he might, upon an
order of a court, take possession of the assets and business
for a period of thirty days, during which time no suits

GIBBES v. ZIMMERMAN.
326

Opinion of the Court.

could be brought against the bank. He might restore the
bank to the management of its officers, or, if liquidation
were required, apply to a court for the appointment of
himself or another as receiver. The affairs of the bank
were then to be liquidated by the receiver under the
supervision of the court. Stockholders were liable to
creditors other than depositors only to the extent of any
unpaid balance on their shares; but to depositors, in an
amount equal to the face value of their shares. It was
the duty of the receiver to demand and collect for the
benefit of creditors and depositors the amount due from
stockholders, and, if necessary, to sue the stockholders
individually and collectively therefor.*
Shortly after the declaration of a banking holiday by the
President on March 4, 1933, the Governor of South Carolina issued a proclamation temporarily closing the banks in
that State. The General Assembly passed, and on March
9 the Governor approved, an Act suspending for eighteen
months legislation then applicable to the conduct and
liquidation of banks; vesting in the Governor plenary
power over state banks; and empowering him: to extend
the time for payment of deposits as the condition of each
institution might require; to direct the creation of special
trust accounts for receipt of deposits, which should be held
separate from other assets and be subject to withdrawal on
demand; to determine whether the overhead expenses of
any bank exceed its net income, and, if so, to compel it to
reduce the expenses or to order immediate liquidation, as
might best serve the depositors' interests; and to make all
necessary rules and regulations to carry out the intent of
the Act. The examiner was prohibited from taking possession of any bank unless authorized so to do by the Governor, and all persons were forbidden, while the Governor
remained in control of the banks, to institute any action
* Civil Code of South Carolina (1932), §§ 7843, 7844, 7848 7852,
7854, 7855, 7868.

330

OCTOBER-TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

against a bank, except by the Governor's consent. The
Governor was authorized to appoint a board of bank control, with whom he might advise and consult, and to which
hl might delegate powers under the Act. Pursuant to
this legislation, the Governor appointed a board of bank
control and promulgated regulations, which provided,
inter alia, that upon advice of the board he might, where
necessary, appoint a conservator for any bank to conserve
its assets for the benefit of depositors and creditors, who
should possess himself of all books, records and assets,
and take all necessary action to preserve the property,
"pending further disposition of its business as provided
by law." The regulations provided: "Such conservator
. . . shall have all the rights, powers and privileges now
possessed by or hereafter given Receivers of insolvent state
banks. . . . During the time that such conservator . . .
shall remain in possession of such bank, the rights of all
parties with respect thereto shall, subject to the other provisions of this order, be the same as if a receiver had 'een
appointed therefor." Further regulations dealing with
the reopening of solvent banks and reorganization of banks
were promulgated, but these are irrelevant to the present
case.
The appellee Zimmerman was appointed conservator of
The Central Union Bank and entered upon his duties.
The appellant, on behalf of himself and other depositors,
filed a bill in the common pleas court, averring the bank's
insolvency, charging that the Act of March 9 is invalid
so far as it purports to prevent appellant and other depositors from prosecuting the suit, and praying the appointment of a receiver who should proceed to enforce the
stockholders' statutory liability to depositors. The defendants named were the conservator, the Governor, and
the State Treasurer, who was also a member of the toard
of bank control. The court issued a temporary injunction
and a rule on the defendants to show cause.

GIBBES v. ZIMMERMAN.
326

Opinion of the Court.

At this juncture, the defendants in the common pleas
court prayed a writ of prohibition from the State Supreme Court, addressed to the appellant and to the judge
of the common pleas court, to stay the equity proceeding.
The judge made return submitting himself to such order
as the Supreme Court should enter. The appellant filed a
demurrer and motion to dismiss, and a return denying the
validity of the Act of March 9 and the regulations, and
asserting that his right to proceed for the collection of
stockholders' liability was a vested property right, to be
enforced through a receiver, of which he could not lawfully be deprived; that the conservator was engaged in"
receiving and paying trust cash deposits, and the expense
of conducting this branch of the business would deplete
assets available for payment of depositors. The writ of
prohibition was granted.
Subsequent to the judgment of the State Supreme Court,
certain official action occurred of which we may take judicial notice. On May 16, 1933, there was approved an Act
of the General Assembly empowering the Governor, whenever he should determine, after advising with the board
of bank control, that any bank for which a conservator had
been or hereafter might be appointed, was insolvent, or in
imminent danger of insolvency, and liquidation was therefore required to protect depositors and creditors, to order
liquidation, which should be accomplished by the conservator, who was to have all the powers and be under all
the duties of a receiver, and might apply to a court for
instructions on questions arising in liquidation. All appointments of conservators theretofore made were ratified
and confirmed. On June 22 the Governor issued an order
finding The Central Union Bank insolvent, or in imminent
danger of insolvency, reciting that he had consulted with
the board of bank control and had found that the overhead
expense of the bank exceeded its net income, and directing,
its liquidation.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

The appellant says the Act of March 9 arbitrarily deprives him of a remedy for the enforcement of stockholders' liability, which remedy was his property, and
was taken from him without due process. But although
a vested cause of action is property and is protected from
arbitrary interference (Pritchardv. Norton, 106 U.S. 124,
132), the appellant has no property, in the constitutional
sense, in any particular form of remedy; all that he is
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment is the preservation of his substantial right to redress by some effective
procedure. Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U.S. 389,
393; Backus v. Fort St. Union Depot Co., 169 U.S. 557,
571; Crane v. Hahlo, 258 U.S. 142, 147; HardwareDealers
Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. Glidden Co.,-284 U.S. 151, 158.
Under the Act of March 9, and the regulations, the conservator was endowed with all the functions of a receiver,
one of which is the enforcement on behalf of depositors of
stockholders' excess liability. If under that Act and the
regulations power was lacking, the defect was cured by
the Act of May 16. Nothing is shown to indicate that
the conservator will prosecute the claim against the stockholders in a manner different from that to be pursued
under the old law by a receiver, or that the state courts
will refuse him process to that end. The Act of March
9, the regulations, and the Act of May 16, do not purport,
and, so far as we can perceive, do not operate, to deny
the depositors participation in the distribution of assets,
or in the benefit of the stockholders' excess liability. It
is not alleged that the proceedings of the conservator will
impose upon creditors of the bank greater burden or expense than would have been the case if a receiver were
functioning. The substantive rights existing under the
old law are preserved. In no proper sense can it be said
that any property of the appellant has been taken, injured
or destroyed.

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
326

333

Syllabus.

The appellant, however, insists that, after the conservator took possession, he accepted special trust deposits,
which were segregated and against which the depositors
were allowed to draw, and in conducting this restricted
business the overhead expenses of the institution exceeded
its net income. So long as this condition existed, he says
his position as a creditor was being jeopardized, for the
fund to which he must look for payment was being depleted. But he has not averred that the conservator's
activities will deplete the bank's resources to such extent
that depositors cannot be paid in full; and whatever injury might have been inflicted by a continuation of the
business has now been abated for the future by the Governor's order of June 22 directing liquidation. No present
advantage could accrue to the appellant from the ousting
of the conservator and the appointment of a receiver, who
could only liquidate by the methods obligatory on the
conservator. In this aspect the case is now moot.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

MAY

ET AL.

v. HAMBURG-AMERIKANISCHE

PACKETFAHRT AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Argued November 14, 15, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.
1. In order that a shipowner may be relieved by the Harter Act of
liability for damage resulting from negligent operation or management of the ship and be entitled to general average under shippers'
agreements (Jason clause) based on that statute, it is necessary
that he shall have exercised due diligence to make the vessel Reaworthy, not only at the beginning of the voyage but at any intermediate stage of it (preceding the loss or damage) at which he took
control. P. 342.

