DAKIN v. BAYLY.
127

143

Syllabus.

upon each of the other questions of construction, is essential to the performance of the duty imposed upon the
Commission, and Congress did not provide a method of
review, we hold that it intended to leave the Government,
as well as the carrier, remediless whether the error be one
of fact or of law. Compare UnitedStates v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 287 U.S. 144. The rule declared in Wisconsin Central R. Co. v. United States, 164 U.S. 190; Grand
Trunk Western Ry. Co. v. United States, 252 U.S. 112,
is not applicable here. The decision in Continental Tie
& Lumber Co. v. United States, 286 U.S. 290, is not inconsistent with this view.

Reversed.
DAKIN, RECEIVER, v. BAYLY, LIQUIDATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 44.

Argued October 20, 1933.-Decided November 20, 1933.

1. Where by state statute, with reference to which a bank and its
depositors presumably contracted, the bank is held only to the
exercise of due diligence in forwarding checks for collection, and
its liability is conditioned on receipt of final payment from the collecting bank, thus making the relation between bank and depositor
(until final payment is received) one of agency merely, the depositors have a right of action against the collecting bank for any
default in collection or remittance. P. 146.
2. Upon the record in this case, held that a bank to which checks
were forwarded by another for collection stood in the relation of
agent to the depositors of the individual items in the forwarding
bank, and was liable to them for failure to remit cash or its equivalent in satisfaction of the amounts collected. P. 147.
3. A. bank against which an action is brought to recover a debt owed
by it individually' to the plaintiff bank held not entitled to set
off a demand which it asserts in an agency capacity. P. 148.
4. Where, at the time of the insolvency of a collecting bank, which
had sent drafts to a forwarding bank in settlement for items
collected by it, the collecting bank remained liable as sub-agent

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

to the depositors of the collection items in the forwarding bank,
held that the forwarding bank was not entitled to set off, in a
suit against it on a debt owed by it individually, an asserted
cause of action in its own right based on the drafts. Distinguishing
Bank of the Metropolis v. New England Bank, 1 How. 234. Pp.
149, 152.

63 F. (2d) 592, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 722, to review a judgment affirming a judgment of the district court allowing a set-off in
an action by the receiver of a national bank.
Messrs. Donald C. McMullen and George B. Springston,
with whom Messrs. F. G. Awalt and George P. Barse were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Melvin A. McMullen, with whom Mr. Thomas
Hamilton was on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. George P. Barse and John F.
Anderson filed a brief on behalf of the Comptroller of the
Currency, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an action on the common counts and on an
account stated brought in the United States District
Court for Northern Florida by the receiver of First National Bank of St. Petersburg, Florida, against the Peoples Bank of Clearwater, Florida, a state bank. In addition to pleas of the general issue, the defendant pleaded
specially that the St. Petersburg bank was indebted to
the defendant in a sum in excess of plaintiff's claim, by
virtue of the delivery to defendant of four drafts drawn
by plaintiff on the Chase National Bank of New York to
the defendant's order, which had been dishonored.
The plaintiff replied that certain checks or drafts drawn
on the St. Petersburg bank or other banks in St. Peters-

DAKIN v. BAYLY.
143

Opinion of the Court.

burg were deposited for collection with the Clearwater
bank; were forwarded by the Clearwater bank to the St.
Petersburg bank for collection; the St. Petersburg bank
collected the items drawn on it by charging the accounts
of its depositors and those on other local banks by
settlement of balances with them; the four drafts in question were sent to the Clearwater bank as remittances of
the amounts so collected, pursuant to the collection letters accompanying the checks; neither bank carried an account or deposit in the other, and for a long period
each bank had been sending checks and drafts to the other
for collection and remittance; and averred that by reason
of the facts stated there was no mutuality in the debts or
demands existing between the parties at the time the
action was brought, and the defendant was not entitled
to the set-off sought in its pleas. The District Court sustained a demurrer to the replication, and, as plaintiff
refused to plead further, entered judgment for the defendant for the excess of its demand. The plaintiff appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where the present
respondent was substituted as appellee, the Clearwater
bank having gone into liquidation. That court affirmed
the judgment, and, upon the plaintiff's petition, we
granted certiorari.
The statute of FloridaI permits set-off of "demands
mutually existing . . . at the commencement of the
action." The question is whether the debts were mutual.
The Circuit Court of Appeals answered in the affirmative,
basing the decision on the section of the Florida statutes
which provides: 2 " The holder of a negotiable instrument
I"All debts or demands mutually existing between the parties at
the commencement of the action, whether the same be liquidated
or not, shall be proper subjects of set-off, and may be pleaded accordingly." Compiled General Laws of Florida, ยง 4326.
'Compiled General Laws of Florida, ยง 6810.

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

may sue thereon in his own name; and payment to him
in due course discharges the instrument," saying that
since the Clearwater bank might maintain a suit in its
own name for the amount due by the petitioner, the demand might be set off; and that it was a matter of no
concern to the petitioner whether the Clearwater bank
held the checks for collection or for value. The petitioner
urges that this holding bases the right of set-off upon a
rule of procedure and ignores the substantive requirement
that the demands must be mutual in quality; and says
that the debt of the St. Petersburg bank was not to the
Clearwater bank, which was a mere collecting agent,
but to the depositors. The conclusion is that while the
Clearwater bank individually owed the receiver of the
St. Petersburg bank, the latter did not owe the former,
but at best the claim was made as an agent. If this be
true, set-off may not be allowed; for a defendant sued
upon his individual debt may not avail himself for this
purpose of a demand against the plaintiff held in a fiduciary capacity. National Bank v. Insurance Co., 104
U.S. 54; Libby v. Hopkins, 104 U.S. 303; Western Tie &
Timber Co. v. Brown, 196 U.S. 502; United States v.
Butterworth-JudsonCorp., 267 U.S. 387, 394-5; Thomas
v. Potter Title & Trust Co., 2 F. Supp. 12.
Were the cross-demands of the parties of the same quality, or, to state it otherwise, did each claim from the other
in the same right? In the ordinary case, the unrestricted
endorsement and deposit of checks with the Clearwater
bank would create the relation of debtor and creditor, and
the bank would collect the items not as agent for the
depositors, but as owner. Exchange National Bank v.
Third National Bank, 112 U.S. 276; Douglas v. Federal
Reserve Bank, 271 U.S. 489. A statute of Florida, however, requires of the bank of deposit only due diligence in
the forwarding of such a check for collection and, in the
absence of negligence, conditions liability for the amount

DAKIN v. BAYLY.
143

Opinion of the Court.

of the check on receipt of final payment from the collecting bank.' The parties are presumed to have contracted
with reference to this statute (Federal Reserve Bank v.
Malloy, 264 U.S. 160), and the situation is as if they had
expressly agreed that the Clearwater bank was to act as
agent only and was not to become the debtor of the depositors unless and until it had received actual and final payment of the checks. Since, then, the Clearwater bank
acted as the agent of depositors in forwarding checks to
the St. Petersburg bank, the depositors have a right of
action against the latter for any default in collection or
remittance. Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy, supra; see
also Miami v. First National Bank, 58 F. (2d) 561. The
Florida courts have reached the same conclusion. Atlantic National Bank v. Pratt, 95 Fla. 822; 116 So. 635;
Edwards v. Lewis, 98 Fla. 956; 124 So. 746; Myers v.
Federal Reserve Bank, 101 Fla. 407; 134 So. 600.
Much is made of the absence of any showing that the
Clearwater bank did not credit the depositors in account
immediately on receipt of the items for collection; but,
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, we must assume
the relation was what the statute made it-one of mere
agency rather than one of debtor and creditor. As was
said in the Malloy case, the effect of the statute might
'"When a check, draft, note or other negotiable instrument is deposited in a bank for credit, or for collection, it shall be considered
due diligence on the part of the bank in the collection of any checl,
draft, note or other negotiable instrument so deposited, to forward
en route the same without delay .in the usual commercial way in use
according to the regular course of business of banks, and the maker,
endorser, guarantor or surety of any check, draft, note or other
negotiable instrument, so deposited, shall be liable to the bank until
actual final payment is received, and when a bank receives for collection any check, draft, note or other negotiable instrument and
forwards the same for collection, as herein provided, it shall only be
liable after actual final payment is received by it, except in case of
want of due diligence on its part as aforesaid." Compiled General
Laws of Florida, ยง 6834.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

be avoided by agreement or by clear and certain custom
known to the depositor; but no such agreement or custom was pleaded by the defendant. The replication
asserts the checks were deposited with the Clearwater
bank for collection and were forwarded to the St. Petersburg bank for collection and remittance, and the defendant's demurrer admits these averments. On this record
we are bound to hold that the St. Petersburg bank stands
in the relation of agent to the individual depositors of
the items, and is liable to them for failure to remit cash
or equivalent in satisfaction of the amounts collected.
The Clearwater bank must therefore sue as representative
or agent of depositors; for a recognition of its right to
sue as owner would destroy the cause of action of the
depositors against the St. Petersburg bank, or leave that
bank subject to a possible double liability. If the crossdemand is asserted in an agency capacity, the debts are
not held in the same right by the two banks, lack mutuality, and the one cannot be set off against the other;
if it is asserted by the Clearwater bank as owner of the
drafts, the demand cannot be maintained, for the reason
that no showing is made that the agency relationship was
altered to that of debtor and creditor.
The respondent, however, seeks to support the judgment on another ground. He says that the Clearwater
bank accepted the drafts, forwarded by the St. Petersburg bank, as payment, thus assumed ownership of them,
acknowledged the change in the relationship to its depositors from that of collecting agent to that of debtor, and
so properly pleads the off-set. We think this position
cannot be maintained.
As respects the set-off of cross-demands, the rights of
the parties became fixed at the moment of the insolvency
of the St. Petersburg bank and consequent suspension of
payment, Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U.S. 499, 511; Davis v.
Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U.S. 275, 290; and the right

DAKIN v. BAYLY.
143

Opinion of the Court.

to set off is governed by the state of things existing at
the moment of insolvency, not by conditions thereafter
arising, Yardley v. Philler, 167 U.S. 344, 360, or by any
subsequent action taken by any party to the transaction,
Evansville Bank v. German-American Bank, 155 U.S.
556. What, then, was the situation, as disclosed by the
record, when the St. Petersburg bank closed its doors?
That bank, as sub-agent for the Clearwater bank's depositors, had made collection and sent the drafts for the
amount to the Clearwater bank. It is incorrect to say
that the St. Petersburg bank paid the amounts collected
by forwarding drafts to the Clearwater bank, or that the
Clearwater bank upon receipt of the drafts was bound.
to accept them as payment and its depositors were likewise thereupon bound to treat the agency of the Clearwater bank and that of the St. Petersburg bank as ended
and the relation of debtor and creditor as established between them and the Clearwater bank. Equally inaccurate
is the assertion that receipt and retention of the drafts
required the Clearwater bank, unless its depositors asserted ownership of them, at once to credit the depositors
with the amount of the items represented by the drafts.
The bank was not bound to assume the relation of debtor
until, in the words of the statute, it had received final
payment, i. e., cash or its equivalent, and we should not
presume that it did so.
Until these drafts were paid, the sub-agent had not
discharged the obligation resting upon it, and. remained
liable to suit by the persons whose checks had been forwarded for collection and remittance, Bank of Washington v. Triplett & Neale, 1 Pet. 25; Wilson & Co. v.
Smith, 3 How. 763; Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy,
supra.. While the drafts were in course of collection
the St. Petersburg bank failed. At the moment of suspension it remained liable as sub-agent to the depositors
of the Clearwater bank, as we have shown. Could it also

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

be subjected to an independent, liability to the Clearwater
bank? Was it not entitled to treat the agency relation
originally existing as still in force, in the absence of notice
from the owners of the collection items that the status
had been altered? Could any position taken by the
Clearwater bank of its own initiative, affect without the
depositors' consent the preixisting relation of principal
and sub-agent between the depositors and the St. Petersburg bank? We think not. Compare Evansville Bank v.
German-American Bank, supra. Those depositors had
an election either to sue the St. Petersburg bank or .to
bring action against the Clearwater bank for want of due
.diligence, or to treat the drafts as payment and hold the
Clearwater bank as their debtor; but there is no intimation in the record that they made any election prior to
the sub-agent's insolvency, nor indeed that they then
knew whether collection had been effected or remittance
received by the Clearwater bank. There is no reason to
presume that they elected to stand on their cause of
action against the Clearwater bank for lack of due diligence in accepting drafts instead of currency, and thus
created a right of action in that bank against the St. Petersburg bank by way of subrogation, or to affirm that the
agency had terminated and its status become that of a
debtor. Nor is any custom pleaded whereby the Clearwater bank was to become the debtor of the depositors
of the checks upon receipt of something other than cash
or equivalent from the sub-agent. Compare Federal
Reserve Bank v. Malloy, supra.
This view does not, as claimed, permit the St. Petersburg bank to assert on behalf of the owners of the checks
an ownership in the drafts which they have never
claimed. On the contrary, the sub-agent merely asserts
its continuing liability to its principals as a reason why
the forwarding agent may not, without showing the

DAKIN v. BAYLY.
143

Opinion of the Court.

agreement of the principal, seek to assert another and a
different cause of action based on alleged ownership of
the drafts by the forwarding bank. The question is not
one of transference of ownership of the drafts to the
customers of the Clearwater bank, but of the attempted
use by that bank of the cause of action on the drafts as
its own, in the teeth of the undenied existence of another
cause of action arising out of the same transaction in
favor of the bank's principals. Bank of the Metropolis v.
New England Bank, 1 How. 234, presented a totally different situation from that here disclosed. In that case
the forwarding bank, for all that appear6d, was the owner
of the paper. There was neither contract nor statute to
the contrary. The course of dealing between the forwarding and the collecting bank was for the mutual exchange of items for collection, which each treated as
owned by the other, and the credit of the items as received in an account of,the sender and periodical settlement of the balances of account. When the forwarding
bank failed, it notified the collecting bank that certain
items then held for collection belonged to the New England bank. In a suit by the latter against Metropolis
bank the defense was that at the date of the forwarding
bank's failure there was due 'from it to the Metropolis
bank more than the amount claimed. The defense was
held good, this Court saying:
"We do not perceive any difference in principal between an advance of money and a balance suffered to
remain upon the faith of these mutual dealings. In the
one case as well as the other, credit is given upon the
paper deposited or expected to be transmitted in the usual
course of the transactions between the parties."
But here we have no credit extended by the St. Petersburg bank to the Clearwater bank on the faith of the
checks forwarded for collection, and no mutual deposit

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
STONE,

J., disenting.

290 U.S.

accounts, but a mere agency evidenced by a collection
letter requiring collection and remittance. The fact that
no credit was extended to the forwarding bank by the
collecting bank, leaves it open to the depositor to assert
his claim against the latter even though it had no notice
that the relation between the depositor and the forwarding bank was one merely of agency. See Sweeny v. Easter,
1 Wall. 166; Beaver Boards Cos. v. Imbrie & Co., 287
Fed. 158, 163.
The respondent was not entitled to set off an asserted
cause of action in its own right based on the drafts drawn
by the petitioner. The suggestion that the petitioner's
demand was for the amount of checks the Clearwater
bank had collected and failed to remit is beside the point.
If the petitioner was for that or any other reason not
entitled to sue in its own right, the fact would only be
a further reason for denying the'set-off.
The judgment must be
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE,

dissenting.

I think the judgment should be affirmed.
The case was tried upon the pleadings alone, and we
are asked to determine an important question of law on
only a partial presentation of the facts upon which its
correct solution depends. Upon the facts disclosed, it
would seem that the petitioner could not rightly defeat
respondent's counterclaim by setting up that the drafts,
which are the subject of it, are held by the Clearwater
bank upon an agency in behalf of some of its depositors
which they are not bound and have not chosen to assert.
But even if that could properly be allowed, the burden
rests on petitioner to show that the agency of the Clearwater bank created by the deposit of the items for collection, was continued with respect to the drafts which are
the subject of the counterclaim, so that they were held

DAKIN v. BAYLY.
143

STONE,

J., dissenting.

by the collecting bank as agent, not as owner. This the
petitioner has failed to do.
From the pleadings it appears that the checks were deposited with the Clearwater bank by its customers, in the
usual course, for collection, and were forwarded by it,
in turn, to the St. Petersburg bank for collection; that
the St. Petersburg bank collected the checks and paid
the amount of the collection to the Clearwater bank by
the drafts in question, made payable to its order. The
two banks had each, for a long time, been sending drafts
and checks to the other for collection and remittance, and
the demand of the St. Petersburg bank, to which the
counterclaim was interposed, was for an amount similarly
due for items which had been collected for it by the
Clearwater bank. It is not shown what credits were
given by the Clearwater bank to the depositors for the
checks when received, or that any of them were restrictively endorsed, or that in the transactions between the
two. banks either appeared to the other to be acting otherwise than as owner of the checks which it forwarded
for collection. See Douglas v. Federal Reserve Bank,
271 U.S. 489. On the argument it was conceded that all
were endorsed without restriction. There is no allegation
that the Clearwater bank ever held the drafts, received
from the St. Petersburg bank, as agent for its depositors,
and none that the depositors ever asserted such an
agency, or that they have made any claim to the drafts.
Whether or not, in the usual course of business, it credited
its depositors with the amount of the drafts on their
receipt is not revealed.
The authority and duty of the Clearwater bank, as
an agent for collection, was to receive legal tender in payment of the collection items, and nothing else. In receiving and retaining the drafts made payable to its own
order, without designating the bank as agent, it took

154

OCTOBER TERM; 1933.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

them, not as agent, but for its own account. By taking
them in payment it discharged the drawers of the collection items. Having thus precluded collection in legal
tender, it at once became the bank's duty to credit its
depositors with the items collected. Federal Reserve
Bank v. Malloy, 264 U.S. 160, 165. By thus crediting the
drafts it would have performed fully its duty as a collecting agent, for such a credit was all that was expected or
could have been required if the collection had been made
in legal tender. In either case the agency would then
have come to an end beyond recall, the bank would have
become a debtor to its depositors and the unqualified
owner of the drafts which it had accepted in payment of
the collections. See Commercial Bank v. Armstrong, 148
U.S. 50, 58; Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252;
Planters'Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 501; Phoenix
Bank v. Risley, 111 U.S. 125; Burton v. United States,
196 U.S. 283, 297; 'Douglas v. Federal Reserve Bank,
supra. There is no presumption, even under the Florida
statute, that an agency of a bank to collect paper for its
depositors survives the receipt by it of drafts in payment
of the collection. Its survival necessarily depends on
special circumstances not here disclosed. It cannot be
presumed, in the absence of appropriate allegations or
proof, that the depositors have claimed any ownership
in the drafts or that, in the absence of such claim, the
Clearwater bank did not, as it was legally bound to do,
credit its depositors with the amount of the drafts on or
after their receipt, or that it afterward occupied any-relationship to its depositors other than that of debtor.
There is thus a failure to allege directly, or by any necessary inference, the essential facts on which the petitioner's
case depends, to show that the depositors of the Clearwater bank have any right to treat the drafts in its hands
as their property.

DAKIN v. BAYLY.
143

STONE, J., dissefiting.

But even if we are to say, on this record, that the depositors were entitled to claim ownership of the drafts
in the hands of the Clearwater bank, they have not done
so, and the St. Petersburg bank may not assert for them
an interest in the drafts which they are not bound to
assert, and have never claimed, for themselves. Unless
Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy, supra, on which the
opinion of the Court relies, is to be overruled,, neither the
St. Petersburg bank nor the Clearwater bank could treat
the depositors of the latter as owners of the drafts, without their consent. In that case, which arose under the
statute of Florida involved in the present case, the bank
had received paper restrictively endorsed for collection
from another bank, which had received it from its customer. In turn it forwarded the paper to another bank for
collection, from which it took a draft, payable to its own
order, in payment of the collection item. This Court
held that the bank received the paper as agent to collect
it, but that in receiving the draft as payment instead of
legal tender, the forwarding bank acted outside its agency.
Hence it could not treat the owner of the paper sent for
collection as the owner of the draft which it had thus
wrongfully received, without his consent or ratification.
Here the rights of the Clearwater bank upon the drafts
had accrued before the receivership 'of either bank.
What their rights then were they continued to be unless
they were altered by some act of its depositors. Ownership of the drafts was not in suspension. It had already
been lodged in the Clearwater bank by its own unauthorized act. Some affirmative act of ratification or adoption
was necessary by its customers before the wrongful act of
the Clearwater bank could be refieved of its consequences
and before the burden of ownership, acquired by it in its
own right because without authority, could be transferred
from it to its depositors. Allowance of the counterclaim

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

upon the drafts, like payment of them before such an act
of adoption, obviously could not result in double liability
of the St. Petersburg bank, since the payment or allowance would be made to the one entitled to receive it.
Other circumstances make the present case an even
plainer one for denying to the petitioner any right to
assert that the drafts, which the Clearwater bank received
and is compelled to hold as owner, are held upon an
agency. The two banks, as the court below pointed out,
were mutual agents for collection. On the record we
must take it that they dealt with each other as the owners
of the collection items, which each bank received from
the other without notice of the interest in them of the
other's depositors for collection. In Bank of the Metropolis v. New England Bank, 1 How. 234, 6 How. 212, this
Court laid down the rule that when banks mutually act
as agents for collection, each for the other, and paper
transmitted for collection appears on its face to be the
property of the transmitting bank and remitted for its
account, they are entitled to settle their mutual demands
for items collected by striking a balance, no matter who
the owner of the collected items may be. Each deals,
and is entitled to deal, with the other in reliance upon the
security of the paper, endorsed without restriction and
transmitted or expected to be transmitted in the usual
course of the transactions between them. See also Reynes
v. Dumont, 130 U.S. 354, 392; Joyce v. Auten, 179 U.S.
591, 597. The application here of the principle involved
would not seem to be affected by the fact that drafts
drawn for balances due from the one bank to the other
were sent daily, rather than weekly or monthly. Even
though the depositors here might have asserted an ownership in the drafts, which nevertheless they did not
assert, it would be a departure from this salutary principle to say that the St. Petersburg bank can deny to the

DAKIN v. BAYLY.
143

STONE, J., dissenting.

Clearwater bank the rights of ownership in the drafts

which the latter cannot itself deny.
Not only has petitioner failed to sustain the burden of
showing that the depositors of the Clearwater bank, or
any of them, have asked or consented to be treated as
owners of the drafts, or otherwise adopted the act of the
Clearwater bank, but it appears that it would be to their
disadvantage to do so. We need rot close our eyes to the
obvious fact that the only possible advantage sought in
behalf of the St. Petersburg bank by resistance to the
counterclaim-the benefit of a distribution by the Clearwater bank to creditors larger than that of the St. Petersburg bank-is identical with the advantage which the
depositors will retain by treating the Clearwater bank as
their debtor, instead of asserting ownership in the unpaid
drafts. In the circumstances, to speak of the Clearwater
bank as suing upon its counterclaim as an agent and as
not bearing the burden of ownership, is to speak in terms
of legal fiction, not of reality. Notwithstanding our judgment denying to the Clearwater bank the right to counterclaim upon the drafts because the ownership of them is
not in it but in its depositors, the depositors, if they have
not already done so, are free to prove their claim against
the Clearwater bank as a debtor, because they have 'never
become owners of the drafts. The Clearwater bank,
then, has no choice but to bear the burdens of ownership
of the drafts, which it has received and retains as owner.
It should equally'be entitled to the benefits. These include the right to set up the drafts as a counterclaim to
its indebtedness to the St. Petersburg bank.

