276

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER, U.S. MARSHAL, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 2.

Argued April 18, 1933. Reargued October 9, 1933.-Decided
December 4, 1933.

1. The legal right to demand the extradition of fugitives from justice,
and the correlative duty to surrender, are not products of international law but exist only when created by treaty. P. 287.
2. Extradition treaties should be construed liberally in favor of
rights of extradition claimed under them. P. 292.
3. In ascertaining the meaning of a treaty, we may look beyond its
written words to the negotiations and diplomatic correspondence
of the contracting parties relating to the subject-matter, and to
their practical construction of it. P. 294.
4. In resolving doubts, the construction of a treaty by the political
department of the Government, while not conclusive upon the
courts, is nevertheless of weight. P. 295.
5. Article X of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842, after stipulating for surrender of fugitives charged with certain specified
offenses, contains a proviso that this shall only be done "upon
such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place
where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would
justify his apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime
or offence had there been committed; . . ." Held that the proviso relates to procedure and proof, and is not a limitation upon
the definition of the offenses for which extradition may be demanded. Pp. 290-295.
6. Under Article X of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty, supra, and
the Blaine-Pauncefote Convention of 1889, with which it must be
construed, the limitation confining extradition to acts that are
criminal in both countries applies only to those offenses to which
it is attached in the clauses specifying them. Pp. 292-295.
7. Hence, for the act of receiving money knowing it to have been
fraudulently obtained, which is specified in the Convention without
that limitation, the fugitive is extraditable to England, where the
act is a crime, even though it may not be such in the State of
Illinois where the fugitive in this case has sought refuge. Id.
8. The obligation to surrender in such cases, being imposed by the
Treaty and Convention, and by the construction heretofore con-

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

277

Syllabus.

tended for by our Government, is to be obeyed by the Government and its courts notwithstanding that a different construction
of her obligation in like cases may have been adopted by
England. P. 298.
9. The surrender of a fugitive, duly charged in the country from
which he has fled with an offense named by the treaty as one for
which extradition may be had and one generally recognized as criminal at the place of asylum, involves no impairment of any legitimate
public or private interest; and the obligation to do what some
nations have done voluntarily, in the interest of justice and friendly
international relations, should be construed more liberally than a
criminal statute or the technical requirements of criminal procedure.
P. 298.
10. All of the offenses named in the two treaties above mentioned
are not only denominated crimes by the treaties themselves, but
are recognized as such by the jurisprudence of both countries.
Even the crime here in question-that of receiving money knowing
it to have been fraudulently obtained-is a crime under the laws
of many of our States, if not in Illinois, punishable either as the
crime of receiving money obtained fraudulently or by false pretenses, or as larceny. P. 299.
11. The policy of our Government to name in its extradition treaties
only those offenses which are generally recognized as criminal by
the laws in force in its own territory 'affords no adequate basis
for declining to construe such a treaty in accordance with its
language, or for saying that its obligation, in the absence of some
express requirement, is conditioned on the criminality of the
offense charged according to the laws of the particular place of
asylum. P. 299.
12. Such a restriction on the obligation in the present case would
restrict the reciprocal operation of the treaties, making the right
to extradition from the United States vary with the State or
Territory where the fugitive is found, although, under the Acts
of Parliament giving the treaties effect, extradition may be had
from Great Britain and her dependencies for all of the offenses
named in the treaties. P. 300.
13. In no case in this Court has extradition been denied because the
offense charged was not also criminal by the laws of the place of
refuge. Wright v. Henkel, 190 U.S. 41; Collins v. Loisel, 259 U.S.
309; Kelly v. Griffin, 241 U.S. 6; and Bingham v. Bradley, 241
U.S. 518, distinguished. P. 301.
14. It is not necessary to determine in the present case, the question
whether the Dawes-Simon Extradition Treaty of 1932, having

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioner.

290 US.

been proclaimed by the President, is binding on the United States
although not binding on Great Britain until proclaimed by an
Order-in-Council. P. 302.
15. The offense specified in the Dawes-Simon Treaty of receiving
money knowing the same to have been stolen or unlawfully obtained, covers the offense specified in the Blaine-Pauncefote Convention of receiving money knowing it to have been fraudulently
obtained. P. 303.
16. In the expression "receiving money knowing the same to have
been stolen or unlawfully obtained," the meaning of the words
"unlawfully obtained" is not restricted by the rule of ejusdem
generis to unlawfulness of the same type as stealing; they indicate
any form of criminal taking, whether or not embraced within the
term larceny in its various connotations. P. 303.
17. An extradition proceeding begun under one treaty is not abated
by the promulgation of a second treaty superseding the first, when
the second continues to specify the offense with which the fugitive is charged and does not purport to exclude from its operation
offenses committed before its signature or promulgation. P. 304.
18. A habeas corpus case involving the legality of an arrest for extradition does not abate or become moot upon the supplanting of the
extradition treaty by another one, when the obligation to surrender, originating in the one treaty, is continued without change
of substance in the other. P. 304.
61 F. (2d) 626, affirmed.

CERTIoI Ri, 289 U.S. 713, to review the reversal of a
judgment discharging the petitioner in habeas corpus.
Ordered for reargument, 289 U.S. 713.
Mr. Newton D. Baker argued the cause for petitioner

at the first hearing and also reargued it. With him on
the briefs were Messrs. Rush C. Butler, S. 0. Levinson,
G. Gale Gilbert, Jr., and Allan J. Carter. The following
synopsis is from the briefs on reargument.
Uniformly and universally extradition treaties enumerate the offenses for which demands and surrenders shall
be made. All text writers, diplomatic negotiators, and
courts recognize the basis of extradition to be mutual
agreement that the acts involved in the offenses enumerated are criminal; and no country has ever agreed to surrender either its own nationals, or refugees seeking its

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Argument for Petitioner.

asylum, for a cause which is not made criminal by its own
laws. The obvious purpose of enumeration of offenses
in treaties is to exclude the possibility of extradition for
offenses not enumerated.
The effect of United States v. Rauscher, 119 U.S. 407,
is that the Treaty of 1842 not only conforms to the general international law, but conforms with the only sound
principle in such matters, which is: that the specific
enumeration of offenses excludes the idea of surrender or
trial upon other grounds, and that the surrendering
country has a right to determine, by its own local law,
whether it is willing to surrender a person found within
its jurisdictiQn for the particular and exclusive object of
subjecting him to trial for a specific offense.
If the United States and the British Empire were respectively nations governed throughout by uniform systems of criminal law, there would, of course, be no
difficulty in defining offenses enumerated in an extradition treaty between them; but both are commonwealths
of nations. Neither has uniformly applicable criminal
codes. Within the British Empire are self-governing
Dominions having legislative bodies which enact criminal codes suitable to the Dominion and having no force
or application in the Empire generally. In the United
States the criminal law is local to each State. There is
no overriding body of national law defining crimes. As a
consequence, an extradition treaty is necessarily applied
in accordance with variations in the local laws. Both
countries uniformly remit the question of criminality,
both as the basis of demand and the basis of surrender,
to the local law of the place where the offense is committed or where the accused is found. Every demand
made by any part of the British Empire under the Treaty
of 1842 or the Convention of 1889 is based upon the law
of that part of the British Empire where the offense is
alleged to have been committed. Cf. Collis v. Loisel,
259 U.S. 309. It has been uniformly true, in all pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for, Petitioner.

290 UB.

ceedings under the Treaty of 1842, that the demand is
based upon Canadian or Indian or New Zealand or New
York or Ohio local law; and in every case which has come
before the courts of Great Britain or her Dominions and
Colonies, or of the United States, the question of surrender has been tested by the lcal law of the place where
the accused has been found. See In re Anderson, 11
Upper Canadian Common Pleas Reports 2; In Re Windsor, 6 Best & Smith's Reports 522; In re Latimer, 10
Canadian Crim. Cas. 244; report of Royal Commission,
1878.
That the language of the proviso is not a mere rule of
evidence but applies to the definition of offenses, has
been held by this Court and by all of the lower federal
courts with the single exception of In re Metzger, 17 Fed.
Cas. 232. See: In re Kaine, 14 How. 103; United States
v. Rauscher, 119 U.S. 407; Bryant v. United States, 167
U.S. 104; In re Kelly, 2 Lowell 339; In re Dugau, 2
Lowell 367; Ex parte Ross, 2 Bond 252; The British Prisoners, 1 Wood & M. 66; Ex parte Kaine, 3 Blatch, 1;
United States v. Lawrence, 13 Blatch. 295; In re Wadge,
15 Fed. 864; In re Kelly, 25 Fed. 268; 26 id. 852; Ex
parte Hibbs, 26 Fed. 421; In re McPhun, 30 Fed. 57; In
re Charleston, 34 Fed. 531; In re Sternaman, 77 Fed.
595; 80 id. 883; In re Orpen, 86 Fed. 760; Cohn v. Jones,
100 Fed. 639; In re Herskovitz, 136 Fed. 713; Rice v.
Ames, 180 U.S. 371; Wright v. Henkel, 190 U.S. 45; Pettit v. Walshe, 194 U.S. 205; Collins v. O'Neill, 214 U.S.

113; In re Breen,. 75 Fed. 458; In re Wright, 123 Fed.
263; In re Frank, 107 Fed. 272; In re Walshe, 125 Fed.
572; United States v. Greene, 146 Fed. 766; and Green
v. United States, 154 Fed. 401.
This Court has repeatedly and categorically held that
an offense is extraditable only if the acts charged are
criminal by the laws of both countries. Collins v. Loisel,
259 U.S. 309, 311; Pettit v. Walshe, 194 U.S. 205, 217;
Kelly v. Griffin, 241 U.S. 6.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Argument for Petitioner.

A review of the entire correspondence and of the negotiations leading up to the treaties actually entered into
between the United States and Great Britain, as well
as of the efforts to negotiate treaties which were not consummated, leads to the inescapable conclusion that both
the Government of the United States and the Government of Great Britain, in these negotiations, attempted
to include only offenses which were clearly criminal by
the laws of both countries, and that wherever the negotiators felt some doubt as to whether an offense to be
included was thus criminal by the laws of all parts of
both countries, the expression was added to the denomination of the offense, "made criminal by the laws of
both countries," out of an abundance of caution. The
proviso following the enumeration of the offenses in Art.
X of the Treaty of 1842 saved both countries from any
possible contention that they had entered into an engagement to surrender for an offense which might not
prove to be criminal in some part of their jurisdiction.
The retention of this proviso in Art. X of the Treaty of
1842 has continued its application to the offenses enumerated in the Convention of 1889.
This proviso is to be found in every extradition treaty
entered into between the United States and Great Britain,
and is also to be found in all of the other extradition
treaties entered into between the United States and other
nations, except, for special reasons, Japan and Colombia.
The construction to be placed upon the proviso not
only governs the exchange of persons accused of crime
between the United States and Great Britain, but also
the exchange of American citizens, or others accused of
crime found in the United States, who are sought in other
countries, e.g., Turkey, Bolivia, Brazil, Argentine, Austria, Germany, Chile, Cuba, Denmark, Guatemala, Haiti,
Italy, Mexico, etc., etc.
To adopt a construction of the proviso contrary to that
placed upon it by all of the cases decided by. the Court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioner.

290 U.S.

and the inferior federal courts (with the exception of
In re Metzger, 17 Fed. Cas. 232), would be to violate the
general principle of international law that the offense for
which extradition is sought must in each instance be a
crime in the place where the accused is found, as well as
in the pla~e where the offense is alleged to have been
committed.
Respondent argues that the record contains evidence
of two offenses, both of which are criminal in Englahd
but only one of which, and that not the crime charged, is
made criminal by the law of Illinois; and that, therefore,
the petitioner should be surrendered because the British
court, in the course of convicting him of the offense
charged, must find that he committed an offense not
charged, but an offense for which a demand might have
been made under the law of Illinois. The difficulties of
this suggestion are two; one, extradition takes place only
for the offense charged; two, the argument is a felo de se,
for if the British court in such a case were to find that
the petitioner had obtained by false pretences property
which he is charged with having received, it would necessarily have to acquit him of the charge of receiving, since
it is the law of Great Britain and the law of the United
States that a man can not be guilty of the crime of receiving that which he has previously obtained by false
pretences or other criminal action.
To surrender the petitioner upon the demand here
made on the ground that his trial will prove him guilty
of an offense not charged, would result in his trial for
another offense than that upon which his surrender was
actually based. This is in direct conflict with the principle established by this Court in United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U.S. 407.
The Dawes-Simon Treaty of 1932 renders the mittimus under which appellee is sought to be detained and
all proceedings under the Treaty of 1842 and the Convention of 1889 null and void.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Argument for Respondent.

The proceeding for petitioner's extradition can not be
maintained for the reason that Art. X of the WebsterAshburton Treaty of 1842 and the Convention of 1889
have been expressly abrogated, and the Dawes-Simon
Treaty does not include as an extraditable offense the
charge made against petitioner.
Mr. William D. Mitchell reargued the cause for respondent. Mr. Franklin R. Overmyer was on the briefs.
Mr. Overmyer conducted the first argument. The following synopsis is from the brief on reargument.
Extradition treaties should be liberally construed and
applied to effect their purpose to suppress crime. Grin v.
Shine, 187 U.S. 181; Benson v. McMahon, 127 U.S. 457.
The United States is as interested in preventing male-factors from obtaining asylum here as foreign nations are
to bring them to justice. Any ground for extradition
supported by reason and consistent with the purpose of
the extradition treaty, should be accepted, rather than
some other theory equally plausible, which would defeat
justice.
Assuming that the treaty requires that the acts charged,
in addition to being violations of English law and extraditable offenses defined in the treaty, must also be made
criminal by Illinois law, that condition is satisfied in this
case. The charge is receiving property from Broad Street
Press, Ltd., knowing it to have been fraudulently obtained. The record shows that conviction depends on
establishing guilty knowledge of the receiver by proof
that he was a party to the fraud by which the Broad
Street Press, Ltd., obtained it. These two separate steps
in the criminal transaction are both made criminal by
English law, are both defined in the treaty as extraditable
offenses, and one-that of obtaining property by fraud
or false pretenses-is made criminal in Illinois. Conviction will require proof of guilt of acts criminal in Illinois,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

290 U.S.

and in addition something not made criminal there. On
the peculiar facts of this case, this satisfies the purpose
of the policy requiring that the acts on which the charge
is founded would have been criminal at the place of
asylum. The British Government could not shift its position at the trial without a breach of good faith, which,
it must be assumed, would be avoided.
There is ground for the view that the 1932 Treaty
went into effect in the United States while this case was
pending on appeal. It was so proclaimed by the President in August, 1932. Treaties take effect usually on
exchange of ratifications. Davis v. Concordia Parish,9
How. 280; Haver v. Yaker, 9 Wall. 32. If this one did
not, it is because of Art. 18, and the fact that the treaty
has not been published, or placed in operation by an
Order-in-Council, in Great Britain. That Article is susceptible of the interpretation that the treaty operates in
each country when there published. It is doubted that
our courts may go behind the executive proclamation
for proof as to whether the treaty has been executed in
England by an Order-in-Council. Charlton v. Kelly, 229
U.S. 447. Under the law of Great Britain, English courts
are forbidden to go behind their Orders-in-Council to
ascertain whether a treaty has been published here. If
the 1932 Treaty operates here, it constitutes the law on
which the case must now be judged. In re de Giacomo,
12 Blatch. 391; 1 Moore on Extradition, § 86. The
change in treaties did not abate the pending extradition
proceeding, as the record made satisfies all requirements
of the new treaty. Abie State Bank v. Bryan, 282
U.S. 765.
The policy of nations to grant extradition only when
the misconduct charged is made criminal by the laws of
both countries, is not a rule of law to be read into a
treaty. To give effect to the policy the treaty must so
provide.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Argument for Respondent.

The proviso in all our extradition treaties with Great
Britain, requiring proof of criminality, has never been
treated as imposing such a condition. The insertion of
express conditions to that effect in the schedules of extraditable crimes shows that to be so. The omission of
such a condition in some of the paragraphs which define
extraditable crimes and the inclusion in others, must be
given due significance. The Treaties of 1889 and 1932
are each susceptible of the interpretation that in respect
of those "treaty crimes" where the condition was
omitted, the High Contracting Parties determined in advance that the misconduct described was of such a nature
as to satisfy the policy respecting criminality in both
countries. Wright v. Henkel, 190 U.S. 40, involved a
paragraph in the Treaty of 1889 which contained the
express condition that the offenses described be made
criminal by-laws of both countries. It was competent
for the United States to omit the condition as to some
offenses, even if the acts were not criminal in some States
of the Union.
In the later decisions on this subject attention does not
seem to have been called to the scope of the decision in
Wright. v. Henkel, or to the fact that in that case the
court was dealing with one paragraph which expressly
imposed the condition of criminality in both countries.
If any criticism is to be offered of the opinion in Wright
v. Henkel, it is in the reference to a general principle of
international law. If by this it was meant that whatever a treaty might say, the condition about criminality
in both countries must be read into it as a rule of law,
the statement went too far. Discussing: Pettit v. Walshe,
194 U.S. 205; Kelly v. Griffin, 241 U.S. 6; and Collinm v.
Loisel, 259 U.S. 309.
In no case-decided by this Court has extradition been
refused because the act was not made criminal in the
State where the fugitive was found.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

MR. JUSTICE STONE. delivered the opinion of the Court.
On complaint of the British Consul, a United States
Commissioner for the Northern District of Illinois issued
his warrant to hold petitioner in custody for extradition to
England, under Article X of the Webster-Ashburton
Treaty of 1842 (1 Malloy's Treaties, pp. 650, 655) as supplemented by the Blaine-Pauncefote Convention of 1889
(1 Malloy's Treaties, 740) and certified the evidence in the
proceeding before him to the Secretary of State under the
provisions of § 651, Tit. 18, U.S.C.A. The application for
extraditiorf- was based on a charge that petitioner, at
London, had "received from Broadstreet Press Limited"
certain sums of money, "knowing the same to have been
fraudulently obtained." Upon application by the petitioner for writ of habeas corpus, and certiorari in its aid,
the District Court for Northern Illinois, ordered him released from custody on the ground that the act charged
was not embraced within the applicable treaties because
not an offense under the laws of Illinois, the state in which
he was apprehended and held. On appeal the Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed the judgment of
the District Court, 61 F. (2d) 626, on the ground that the
offense was a crime in Illinois, as had been declared in
Kelly v. Griffin, 241 U.S. 6. This Court granted certiorari,
289 U.S. 713, on a petition which presented as ground for
the reversal of the judgment below that, under the Treaty
of 1842 and Convention of 1889, extradition may not be
had unless the offense charged is a crime under the law of
the state where the fugitive is found and that "receiving
money, knowing the same to have been fraudulently obtained," the crime with which the petitioner was charged,
is not an offense under the laws of Illinois.
In support of this contention, petitioner asterts that
it is a general principle of international law that an
offense for which extradition may be had must be a crime
both in the demanding country and in the place where

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

the fugitive is found, and that the applicable treaty provisions, interpreted in the light of that principle, exclude
any right of either country to demand the extradition of
a fugitive unless the offense with which he is charged is a
crime in the particular place of asylum. See Wright v.
Henkel, 190 U.S. 40, 61. But the principles of international law recognize no right to extradition apart from
treaty. While a government may, if agreeable to its own
constitution and laws, voluntarily exercise the power to
surrender a fugitive from justice to the country from
which he has fled, and it has been said that it is under a
moral duty to do so, (see 1 Moore, Extradition, § 14;
Clarke, Extradition, 4th ed., p. 14) the legal right to demand his extradition and the correlative duty to surrender him to the demanding country exist only when
created by treaty. See United States v. Rauscher, 119
U.S. 407, 411, 412; Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540, 569,
582; United States v. Davis, 2 Sumner 482; Case of Jose
Ferreirados Santos, 2 Brock. 493; Commonwealth ex rel.
Short v. Deacon, 10 S. & R. 125; 1 Moore, Extradition,
§§ 9-13; cf. Matter of Washburn, 4 Johns. Ch. 105, 107;
1 Kent. Com. 37. To determine the nature and extent of
the right we must look to the treaty which created it.
The question presented here, therefore, is one of the construction of the provisions of the applicable treaties in
accordance with the principles governing the interpretation of international agreements.
The extradition provisions of the treaty with Great
Britain of 18421 are embodied in Article X, which pro'The applicable provisions of the Treaty of 1842 are as follows:
" . .. and whereas it is found expedient, for the better administration of justice and the prevention of crime within the territories and
jurisdiction of the two parties, respectively, that persons committing
the crimes hereinafter enumerated, and being fugitives from justice,
should, under certain circumstances, be reciprocally delivered up:
!'ARTiCLE X. It is agreed that the United States-and Her Britannic
Majesty shall, upon mutual requisitions by them, or their Ministers,

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

vides that each country "shall ... deliver up to Justice all persons who, being charged with" any of seven
named crimes "committed within the jurisdiction 'of
either, shall seek an asylum or shall be found within the
territories of the other." The crime charged here is not
one of those specified in Article X and is therefore not
an offense with respect to which extradition may be demanded, unless made so by the provisions of the supplemental convention of 1889. That convention recites that
it is desired by the high contracting parties that the provisions of Article X of the earlier treaty should "embrace
certain crimes not therein specified," and agrees by Article
1 2 that the provisions of Article X of the earlier treaty
officers, or authorities, respectively made, deliver up to justice all persons who, being charged with the crime of murder, or assault with
intent to commit murder, or piracy, or arson, or robbery, or forgery,
or the utterance of forged paper, committed within the jurisdiction of
either, shall seek an asylum or shall be found within the territories of the other: Provided, that this shall only be done upon such evidence
of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive
or person so charged shall be found, would justify his apprehension
add commitment for trial if the crime or offence had there been committed; and the tespective judges and other magistrates of the two
Governments shall have power, jurisdiction, and authority, upon complaint made under oath, to issue a warrant for the apprehension of the
fugitive or person so charged, that he may be brought before such
judges or other magistrates, respectively, to the end that the evidence
of criminality may be heard and considered; and if, on such hearing,
the evidence be deemed sufficient to sustain the charge, it shall be the
duty of the examining judge or magistrate to certify the same to the
proper Executive authority, that a warrant may issue for the surrender of such fugitive. The expense of such apprehension and
delivery shall be borne and defrayed by the party who makes the
requisition and receives the fugitive."
'The applicable provisions of the Convention of 1889 are as follows:
"Whereas by the Tenth Article of the Treaty concluded between
the United States of America and Her Britannic Majesty on the ninth
day of August, 1842, provision .is made for the extradition of persons
charged with certain crimes;
"And Whereas it is now desired by the High Contracting Parties
that the provisions of the said Article should embrace certain crimes

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

289

Opinion of the Court.

shall be made applicable to an added schedule of crimes
specified in ten numbered classes of offenses and one unnumbered class. In the case of certain offenses, 'those
enumerated in the classes numbered 4 and 10, and in the
unnumbered class, Article X applies only if they are, in
the former case, "made criminal" and, in the latter,
not therein specified, and should extend to fugitives convicted* of the
crimes specified in the said Article and in this Convention;
"The said High Contracting Parties have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries to conclude a Convention for this purpose, ...
"Who, after having communicated to each other their respective
full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and
concluded the following Articles:
ARTICLE

I.

"The provisions of the said Tenth Article are hereby made applicable to the following additional crimes:
" 1. Manslaughter, when voluntary.
"2. Counterfeiting or altering money; uttering or bringing into
"culation counterfeit or altered money.
"3. Embezzlement; larceny; receiving any money, valuable security, or other property, knowing the same to have been embezzled,
stolen, or fraudulently obtained.
"4. Fraud by bailee, banker, agent, factor, trustee, or director or
member -or officer of any company, made criminal by the laws of both
countries.
"5. Perjury, or subornation of perjury.
"6. Rape; abduction; child-stealing; kidnapping.
"7. Burglary; house-breaking or shop-breaking.
"8. Piracy by the law of nations.
"9. Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt by two or more persons on board
a ship on the high seas, against the authority of the master; wrongfully sinking or destroying a vessel at sea, or attempting to do so;
assaults on board a ship on the high seas, with intent to do grievous
bodily harm.
"10. Crimes and offenses against the laws of both countries for the
suppression of slavery and slave-trading.
"Extradition is also to take place for participation in any of the
crimes mentioned in this Convention or in the aforesaid Tenth Article,
provided such participation be punishable by the laws of both
countries."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.
"punishable,"

290 U.S.

"by the laws of both countries." No
such limitation is expressed with respect to the crimes
enumerated in the other eight classes, one of which, the
third., includes the crime with which petitioner is charged.
Thus, like Article X of the earlier treaty, Article I specifies by name those offenses upon accusation of which the
fugitive is to be surrendered and it extends to them the
obligation of the earlier treaty. But Article I, unlike
Article X, singles out for exceptional treatment certain
of the nffenses named, which in terms are brought within
the obligation of the treaty only if they are made criminal
by the laws of both countries.
Notwithstanding this distinction, appearing on the face
of the Convention, petitioner insists that in no case does
it require extradition of a fugitive who has sought asylum
in the United States unless the criminal act with which
he is charged abroad is similarly defined as a crime by
the laws of the particular state, district or territory of the
United States in which he is found. The only language
in the two treaties said to support this contention is the
proviso in Article X of the treaty of 1842, following the
engagement to surrender fugitives charged with specified
offenses, which reads as follows:
" Provided, that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place
where the fugitive or person so charged shall be -found,
would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial
if the crime or offence had there been committed; . . ."
It cannot be said that these words give any clear indication that a fugitive charged with acts constituting a
crime named in the treaty is not to he subject to extradition unless those acts are also defined as criminal by
the laws of the state in which he is apprehended. The
proviso would appear more naturally to refer to the procedure to be followed in the country of the asylum in
asserting and making effective the obligation of the treaty

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

and particularly to the quantum of proof-the "evidence "-which is to be required at the place of asylum
to establish the fact that the fugitive has committed the
treaty offense within the jurisdiction of the demanding
country.
When the treaty was adopted there was no statutory
provision of the United States regulating the procedure
to be followed in securing extradition of the fugitive, and
the necessary procedure was provided in the treaty itself. By the proviso, the observance of the laws of the
place of refuge is exacted in apprehending and detaining
the fugitive. See Benson v. McMahon, 127 U.S. 457;
In re Metzger, 17 Fed. Cas. 232. It prescribes a method
of procedure, in conformity with local law, by which compliance with the obligation of the treaty may be exacted
at the place of refuge; and sets up a standard by which to
measure the amount of the proof of the offense charged
which the treaty requires as prerequisite to extradition.
The standard thus adopted is that which under local law
would determine the sufficiency of the evidence to justify
the apprehension and commitment " if the crime or offense
had there been committed." '
"The Act of Congress, August 12, 1848, c. 167, § 1, 9 Stat. 302,
prescribed the procedure before a commissioner or federal judicial
officer to secure the apprehension and detention of fugitives whose
extradition is demanded under any treaty or convention with any
foreign government. This enactment was the source of § 5270, R.S.,
now § 651, Tit. 18, U.S.C.A., which provides: "If, on such hearing,
he deems the evidence sufficient to sustain the charge under the provisions of the proper treaty or convention, he shall certify the same,
together with a copy of all the testimony taken before him to the
Secretary of State, that a warrant may issue upon the requisition. . ."
It does not require that the act charged as a treaty offense be found
to be one made criminal by the laws of the place of asyfum. By Act
of August 3, 1882, c. 378, § 5, 22 Stat. 216, § 655, Tit. 18, U.S.C.A.,
provision was made for receiving in evidence in such proceedings,
depositions, warrants and other papers, such as may be received for
similar purposes by the tribunals of the foreign country from which

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

Were Article X intended to have the added meaning
insisted upon by petitioner, that there should be no extradition unless the act charged is one made criminal by
the laws of the place of refuge, that meaning would naturally have been expressed in connection with the enumeration of the treaty offenses, rather than in the proviso

which, in its whole scope, deals with procedure. That no
such meaning can fairly be attributed to the proviso becomes evident when Article X is read, as for present purposes it must be, with the supplementary provisions of the
Convention of 1889.
The draftsmen cf the latter document obviously treated
the proviso as dealing with procedure alone, since they
took care to provide in Article I that fugitives should be
subject to extradition for certain offenses, only if they were
defined as criminal by the laws of both countries, but
omitted any such provision with respect to all the others
enumerated, including the crime of "receiving," with
which petitioner is charged." This was an unnecessary
the fugitive shall have escaped. This legislation has not been thought
to dispense with the necessity of the proviso contained in the Treaty
of 1842, which has generally been included in later treaties, see footnote 4, infra, but it has been deemed to have relaxed the procedure
exacted by the proviso in favor of the demanding country. Elias v.
Ramirez, 215 U.S. 398, 409; Bingham v. Bradley, 241 U.S. 511, 517;
In re Dubroca y Paniagua,33 F. (2d) 181; compare Collins v. Loisel,
259 U.S. 309, 315, 316.
'The Supplementary Extradition Treaty with Great Britain of
December 13, 1900, Malloy's Treaties, 780, added three classes to
the list of crimes for which extradition could be demanded under the
earlier treaties, but omitted any requirement that they be criminal by
the laws of both countries. By the Supplementary Extradition Treaty
with Great Britain of April 12, 1905, Malloy's Treaties, 798, two other
crimes were added to the schedule of extraditable offenses, as follows:
" 14. Bribery, defined to be the offering, giving or receiving of
bribes made criminal by the laws of both countries.
"15. Offenses, if made criminal by the laws of both countries,
against bankruptcy law."

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

precaution and one not consistently taken if the proviso
already precluded extradition when the offense charged is
not also criminal in the particular place of asylum. A less
strained and entirely consistent construction is that urged
by respondent, that the specification of the crime of "receiving," as a treaty offense, without qualification, evidenced an intention to dispense with the restriction applied to other treaty offenses, that they must be crimes
"by the laws of both countries."
In choosing between conflicting interpretations of a
treaty obligation, a narrow and restricted construction is to
be avoided as not consonant with the principles deemed controlling in the interpretation of international agreements.
Considerations which should govern the diplomatic relations between nations, and the good faith of treaties, as
well, require that their obligations should be liberally construed so as to effect the apparent intention of the parties,
to secure equality and reciprocity between them. For
that reason if a treaty fairly admits of two constructions,
By the Dawes-Simon Treaty of 1932,47 Stat. 2122, not yet promulgated by Great Britain, the proviso, modified andstated in a separate
article, reads as follows:
"The extradition shall take place only if the evidence be found
sufficient, according to the laws of the High Contracting Party applied
to, either to justify the committal of the prisoner, for trial, in case the
crime or offence had been committed in the territory of such High
Contracting Party, or to prove that the prisoner is the identical person convicted by the courts of the High Contracting Party who makes
the requisition, and that the crime or offence of which he has been
convicted is one in respect of which extradition could, at the time of
such conviction, have been granted by the High Contracting Party
applied to."
This treaty enumerates twenty-seven classes of extraditable offenses
and one unnumbered class, but extradition is conditional upon the
offense charged being criminal in the country of asylum in the case of
two classes only, as follows:
"6. Indecent assault if such crime or offence be indictable in the
place where the accused or convicted person is apprehended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

-one restricting the rights which may be claimed under it,
and the other enlarging it, the more liberal construction is
to be preferred. Jordan v. Tashiro, 278 U.S. 123, 127;
Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U.S. 258, 271; In re Ross, 140 U.S.
453, 475; Tucker v. Alexandrafi, 183 U.S. 424, 437; Asakura v. Seattle, 265 U.S. 332. Unless these principles,
consistently recognized and applied by this Court, are
now to be discarded, their application here leads inescapably to the conclusion that the treaties, presently involved,
on their face require the extradition of the petitioner, even
though the act with which he is charged would not be a
crime if committed in Illinois.
In ascertaining the meaning of a treaty we may look
beyond its written words to the negotiations and diplomatic correspondence of the contracting parties relating
"Extradition is also to be granted for participation in any of the
aforesaid crimes or offences, provided that such participation be
punishable by the laws of both High Contracting Parties."
The extradition treaty with Germany of July 12, 1930, contains a
stipulation that fugitives shall be delivered up with respect to all the
offenses enumerated in the treaty " only if they are punishable as
crimes or offenses by the law of both countries applicable to the case."
In each of the following treaties the proviso of Article X of the Treaty
with Great Britain of 1842 appears, as does also the distinction made
in Article I of the Convention of 1889 between offenses with respect
to which it is specifically provided that they shall be extraditable
only if they are defined as criminal by the laws of both countries, and
other offenses with respect to which no such requirement is made:
Austria, January 31, 1930; Bolivia, April 21, 1900; Brazil, May 14,
1897; Bulgaria, March 19, 1924; Chile, April 17, 1900; Costa Rica,
November 10, 1922;' Cuba, April 6, 1904, January 14, 1926; Czechoslovakia, July 2, 1925; Denmark, January 6, 1902; Esthonia, November 8, 1923; Finland, August 1, 1924; Greece, May 6, 1931; Latvia,
October 16, 1923; Lithuania, April 9, 1924; Netherlands, May 22,
1880, June 2, 1887; Norway, June 7, 1893, December 10, 1904;
Panama, May 25, 1904; Poland, November 22, 1927; Portugal, May
7, 1908; Roumania, July 23, 1924; Servia, October 25, 1901; Siam,
December 30, 1922; Spain, August 7, 1882, June 15, 1904; Sweden
and Norway, March 21, 1860.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

295

Opinion of the Court.

to the subject matter, and to their own practical construction of it. Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U.S. 47, 52; In re
Ross, upra, 467; United States v. Texas, 162 U.S. 1, 23;
Kinkead v. United States, 150 U.S. 483, 486; Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U.S. 197, 223. And in resolving doubts
the construction of a treaty by the political department of
the government, while not conclusive upon courts called
upon to- construe it, is nevertheless of weight. Nielsen
v. Johnson, supra, 52; Charlton v. Kelly, 229 U.S. 447,
468. But the exhaustive search, by counsel, through available diplomatic records and correspondence, in response
to the invitation of the Court in its order for reargument
of this cause, has disclosed nothing in diplomatic history
which would afford a basis for any different conclusion.
Within two years of the proclamation of the Treaty of
1842, our State Department had occasion to construe the
provisions of Article X, now under consideration, and to
take a definite position as to their scope and meaning.
Certain fugitive slaves, charged with robbery and murder
by indictment of the grand jury for the District of Florida,
had fled to Napan in the Bahama Islands. Requisition
was made in due course for their extradition, and the
Governor of the Bahamas, in conformity to the local
procedure, issued his requisition for the fugitives to the
Chief Justice of the Colony. The court over which he
presided refused to order the extradition of the fugitives
and directed their discharge on the grounds that the indictment was not of itself sufficient evidence of the commission of the offense and that the offense charged,
apparently committed by the slaves in effecting their
escape, although criminal in Florida, did not appear to
be so under British law.
From the ensuing diplomatic correspondence it clearly
appears that this government then asserted that the
Treaty of 1842 obligated both parties to surrender fugitives duly charged with any of the offenses specified in

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

Article X without regard to the criminal quality of the
fugitive's acts under the law of the place of asylum. This
contention was supported by full and cogent argument in
the course of which it was specifically pointed out that
the proviso of Article X relates to the procedure to be
followed in asserting rights under the treaty and is not
a limitation upon the definition of the offenses with respect to which extradition might be demanded.5
'In a letter of instructions by Mr. Calhoun, then Secretary of State,
to Edward Everett, Minister to Great Britain, of August 7, 1844, the
latter was directed to bring the subject to the attention of the British
Government, to press upon it this construction of Article X and to
ascertain what construction that government intended to adopt. Department of State: 15 Instructions, Great Britain, 205, No. 99. After
quoting the provisions of the Article the Secretary of State said:
"It comprehends all persons charged with the crimes of murder,
robbery, etc., etc., committed within the jurisdiction of the party
making the requisition, and found in the territory of that on whom the
requisition is made. That these words are broad enough to comprehend the case under consideration, is beyond doubt; and, of course,
the only possible question which can be made is, whether it is not
taken out by the proviso which immediately follows. . ....
and after quoting the proviso he continued:
"It is too plain to require proof that it relates to the evidence on
which the fugitive is to be given up to justice, exclusively, without
intending to restrict or change the body of the agreement. That having clearly specified who were to be delivered up to justice on the
requisition of either party, it became necessary, in order to give effect
to the agreement, to specify on what evidence it should be done; and
to do that, accordingly, is the sole object of the proviso. It specifies
that it shall be done on such evidence of criminality as would justify
his apprehension and commitment for trial by the laws of the place
where the fugitive is found, had the crime charged been there committed; that is, if the crime charged be murder or robbery, as in this
case, on such evidence as would justify apprehension and commitment
for trial for murder or robbery at the place.
"Taking the body of the agreement and proviso together, it would
seem to be unquestionable that the true intent of the article is, that
the criminality of the act charged should be judged of by the laws of
the country within whose jurisdiction the act was perpetrated; but
that the evidence on which the fugitive should be delivered up to

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

The political department of the government, before the
negotiation of the Convention of 1889, had thus clearly
justice should be by the laws of the place where he shall be found.
Both are to be judged by the laws of the place where they occur; and
properly so, as they are paramount within their respective limits.
And hence it is expressly specified in the body of the agreement, that
the crime charged must have been committed within the jurisdiction
of the party making the requisition; and in the proviso that the evidence, on which the fugitive shall be delivered up, shall be such as is
required to apprehend and commit for trial according to the laws of
theplace where he is found."
Mr. F~verett's report to the Secretary of November 23, 1844 (Department 'of State: 53 Despatches, Great Britain, No. 216), of his
conversations with Lord Aberdeen, British Secretary of Foreign Affairs, on this subject, being deemed unsatisfactory by the Secretary,
he directed that the conversations be renewed in a letter of instructions of January 28, 1845 (Department of State: 15 Instructions,
Great Britain, No. 120). After pointing out that the question was
equally important with respect to all the crimes enumerated in Article
X, he said:
"It is obvious, from the preceding remarks, that the question
whether the criminality of the act is to be judged of by the laws of the
country where the offence was committed or that where the fugitive
may be found, is one of wide extent and of first magnitude in the
construction of the treaty. We contend that it must be by the laws
of the place where the crime was charged to have been committed, and
not that where the fugitive is found; and hold that such construction
is in strict conformity with the wording and true intent of the
treaty, ...
"You are accordingly instructed to call again the attention of Her
Majesty's government to the subject, and to urge a speedy decision in
strong and earnest language."
The matter appears to have been fully presented to the British
Government by Mr. Everett. Department of State: Mr. Everett to
the Secretary of State, January 31, 1845, 54 Despatches, Great Britain,
No. 250; No. 271, March 3, 1845. But as the British Government
took the position that the indictment of itself was not sufficient evidence of the commission of the offense in Florida, further inquiry as to
the government's construction of Article X seems not to have been
pressed or answered. See also the case of John Anderson, a fugitive
slave whose extradition was sought from Canada, discussed in 1 Moore,
Extradition, § 440.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the. Court.

290 U.S.

and emphatically taken the position that the correct
construction of Article X is that for which respondent
contends here, a construction which, as already indicated,
is supported and confirmed by the provisions of the Convention of 1889. Our government does not appear to
have receded from that position, and while the British
Government has never definitely yielded to it, except insofar as the arguments addressed to us in behalf of the respondent may be taken to have that effect, that fact, or
even the failure of Great Britain to comply with the obligations of -the treaty, would not be ground for refusal
by this government to honor them or by this Court to
apply them. -Until a treaty has been denounced, it is
the duty of both the government and the courts to sanction the performance of the obligations reciprocal to the
rights which the treaty declares and the government asserts, even though the other party to it holds to a different
view of its meaning. Charlton v. Kelly, supra, 472, 473.
The diplomatic history of the treaty provisions thus lends
support to the construction which we think should be
placed upon them when read without extraneous aid, but
with that liberality demanded generally in the interpretation of international obligations.
Other considerations peculiarly applicable to treaties for
extradition, and to these treaties in particular, fortify this
conclusion. The surrender of a fugitive, duly charged in
the country from which he has fled with a non-political
offense and one generally recognized as criminal at the
place of asylum, involves no impairment of any legitimate
public or private interest. The obligation to do what some
nations have done voluntarily, in the interest of justice
and friendly international relationships, see 1 Moore, Extradition, § 40, should be construed more liberally than a
criminal statute or the technical requirements of criminal
procedure. Grin v. Shine, 187 U.S. 181, 184; Yordi v.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

Nolte, 215 U.S. 227, 230. All of the offenses named in
the two treaties are not only denominated crimes by the
treaties themselves, but they are recognized as such by the
jurisprudence of both countries.' Even that with which
petitioner is charged is a crime under the law of many
states, if not in Illinois, punishable either as the crime of
receiving money obtained fraudulently or by false pretenses, or as larceny.' See United States v. Mulligan, 50 F.
(2d) 687. Compare Kelly v. Griffin, supra,p. 15. It has
been the policy of our own government, as of others, in
entering into extradition treaties, to name as treaty offenses only those generally recognized as criminal by the
'President Tyler, in his message transmitting the Treaty of 1842 to
the Senate for consideration, referred to Article X as "carefully confined to such offenses as all mankind agreed to regard as heinous and
as destructive to the security of life and property. In this careful
and specific enumeration of crimes, the object has been to exclude all
political offenses, or criminal charges, arising from wars or intestine
commotions." Executive Documents, Vol. 1, 1842-3, Doc. No. 2, p. 22.
'Alabama, Code of 1923, §§ 4131, 4912; Arkansas, Crawford & Moses
Digest of Statutes of 1921, §§ 2449 and 2493; California, Penal Code
of 1931, §§ 484, 496; Idaho, Code of 1932, §§ 17-3902 and 17-3512;
Indiana, Burns' Annotated Statutes of 1926, § 2465; Kansas, Revised
Statutes of 1923, §§ 21-551 and 21-549; Louisiana, Code of Criminal
Procedure and Criminal Statutes of 1932, art. 1306; Massachusetts,
General Laws of 1932, c. 266, § 60; Minnesota, Mason's Statutes of
1927, §§ 10358, 10374; Missouri, Revised Statutes of 1929, §§ 4095 and
4083; Montana, Rev. Codes of 1921, §§ 11410 and 11388; Nevada,
Compiled Laws of 1929, § 10543, as amended by L. 1931, c. 117, § 1;
New Jersey, § 52-166 e (1) of 1925-1930 Supplement to Compiled
Statutes of 1911; New York, Penal Law, §§ 1290 and 1308; North
Carolina, Code of 1931, §§ 4277 and 4250; Ohio, Throckmorton's
Annotated Code of 1930, § 12450; Rhode Island, General Laws of
1923, §§ 6072 and 6070, as amended by L. 1928, c. 1208; Tennessee,
Code of 1932, §§ 10949, 10950; Utah, Compiled Laws of 1917, §§ 8344
and 8297; Virginia, Code of 1930, §§ 4459 and 4448; West Virginia,
Code of 1931, p. 1469, c. 61, art. 3, § 24; page 1467, c. 61, art. 3, § 18;
Wyoming, Revised Statutes of 1931, § 32-318.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 UB.

laws in force within its own territory." But that policy,
when carried into effect by treaty designation of offenses
with respect to which extradition is to be granted, affords
no adequate basis for declining to construe the treaty in
accordance with its language, or for saying that its obligation, in the absence of some express requirement, is conditioned on the criminality of the offense charged according to the laws of the particular place of asylum. Once the
contracting parties are satisfied that an identified offense is
generally recognized as criminal in both countries, there is
no occasion for stipulating that extradition shall fail
merely because the fugitive may succeed in finding, in
the country of refuge, some state, territory or district in
which the offense charged is not punishable. No reason is
suggested or apparent why the solemn and unconditional
engagement to surrender a fugitive-charged with the named
offense of which petitioner is accused should admit of any
inquiry as to the criminal quality of the act charged at the
place of asylum beyond that necessary to make certain
that the offense charged is one named in the treaty. See
Collins v. Loisel, 259 U.S. 309, 317; Grin v. Shine, supra,
188.
It is of some significance also that the construction
which petitioner urges would restrict the reciprocal operation of the treaty. Under that construction the right to
extradition from the United States may vary with the
state or territory where the fugitive is found although
extradition may be had from Great Britain with respect
to all the offenses named in the treaty. While under the
laws of Great Britain extradition treaties are not selfexecuting, and effect must be given to them by an act of
Parliament designating the crimes, upon charge of which
' See Dispatch No. 3, August 4, 1885, Secretary Bayard to Phelps,
Minister to England; Letter from Ambassador Choate to the Marquess
of Lansdowne, of April 5, 1905.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

extradition from Great Britain and its dependencies may
be had, all the offenses named in the two treaties have
been so designated by Acts of Parliament of 1870, 33 and
34 Victoria, c. 52, as amended by Act of 1873, 36 and 37
Victoria, c. 60.
The District Court for Southern New York, decided, in
1847, that the proviso in the Extradition Treaty with
France of November 9, 1843, like that in Article X, did
not require that the treaty offense charged to have been
committed in France should also be a crime in New York,
the place of asylum. In re Metzger, supra. The precise
question now before us seems not to have been decided
in any other case, and in no case in this Court has extradition been denied because the offense charged was not
also criminal by the laws of the place of refuge. In
Wright v. Henkel, supra, the offense charged, fraud by
a director of a company, was, by paragraph 4 of Article I
of the Convention of 1889, a treaty offense only if made
criminal by the laws of both countries. In Collins v.
Loisel, supra, and in Kelly v. Griffin, supra, the question
was whether the crime charged was a treaty offense. The
court so held and the right to extradition was sustained.
The offense charged was said to be a crime in both countries, and it seems to have been assumed without discussion, and not questioned, that its criminality at the
place of asylum was necessary to extradition. See also
Bingham v. Bradley, 241 U.S. 511, 518. That assumption
is shown here to have been unfounded.
The petitioner also objects that the Dawes-Simon extradition treaty with Great Britain of 1932, 47 Stat. 2122,
is now in force; that it does not name as a treaty offense
the receiving of money, knowing it to have been fraudulently obtained, the crime with which petitioner is
charged, and, that by abrogating the earlier extradition
treaties between the two countries it has abated this

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

proceeding and that for the extradition of the petitioner,
which was brought while the Treaty of 1842 and the
Convention of 1889 were in force.
The ratifications of the Dawes-Simon Treaty were announced by presidential proclamation of August 9, 1932,
which declared that the treaty was made public to the end
that "every article and clause thereof may be observed
and fulfilled with good faith "by the United States and its
citizens. Article 18 provides that: "The present treaty
shall come into force in ten days after its publication in
conformity with the forms prescribed by the high contracting parties." Under the applicable provisions of the British Extradition Act of 1870, 33 and 34 Victoria, c. 52, as
amended by the Act of 1873, 36 and 37 Victoria, c. 60,
extradition treaties are carried into effect and given the
force of law in Great Britain by publication of an Orderin-Council embodying the terms of the treaty, and directing that the Extradition Act shall apply with respect to
the foreign state which has entered into the treaty. As
appears from the record, and as is conceded, no Order-inCouncil has been promulgated with respect to this treaty,
and the State Department appears not to have recognized
it as in force in either country. See Doe v. Braden, 16
How. 635, 656.
We find it unnecessary to determine whether or not the
treaty, as suggested on the argument, is now in force, and
binding on the United States, although not binding on
Great Britain until proclaimed by an Order-in-Council.
For if we were to arrive at that conclusion, we could not
say that its obligation would not extend to the offense
with which petitioner is charged, or that its substitution
for the earlier treaties would abate the proceeding for the
extradition of petitioner or the pending habeas corpus
proceeding.
Paragraph 18 of Article 3 of the Dawes-Simon Treaty
includes among the offenses for which extradition may be

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Opinion of the Court.

demanded "receiving any money, valuable security or
other property, knowing the same to have been stolen or
unlawfully obtained." It is insisted that "receiving
money," knowing the same to have been stolen or unlawfully obtained, is not the equivalent of receiving money,
knowing the same to have been fraudulently obtained.
It is not denied that the phrase " unlawfully obtained,"
standing alone, is as broad as the phrase "fraudulently
obtained." But it is asserted that its use in association
with the word "stolen" restricts its meaning to offenses
of the same type of unlawfulness as stealing, which it is
said involves only those forms of criminal taking which
are without the consent or against the will of the owner or
the possessor. But we think the words of the treaty
present no opportunity for so narrow and strict an application of the rule of ejusdem generis. The rule is at most
one of construction, to be resorted to as an aid only when
words or phrases are of doubtful meaning. Extradition
treaties are to be liberally, not strictly, construed. The
words "steal" and "stolen " have no certain technical
significance making them applicable only with respect to
common law larceny. They are not uncommonly used as
implying also a taking or receiving of property by embezzlement or false pretenses, offenses which are often
embraced in modern forms of statutory larceny.' Whatever was left vague or uncertain by the use of the word
"stolen" was made certain by the added phrase "or unlawfully obtained," as indicating any form of criminal taking whether or not embraced within the term larceny in its
various connotations. Even if the word "stolen" were
to be given the restricted meaning for which the petitioner contends, it would be so precise and comprehensive
aa to exhaust the genus and leave nothing essentially
similar on which the general phrase "or unlawfully
obtained " could operate. This phrase, like all the other
'See Note 7, ante.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

words of the treaty, is to be given a meaning, if reasonably possible, and rules of construction may not be resorted to to render it meaningless or inoperative. See
Mason v. United States, 260 U.S. 545, 553.
As the crime with which petitioner is charged is an
extraditable offense under the Dawes-Simon Treaty, the
effective promulgation of that treaty and the consequent
abrogation of earlier ones would not abate the pending
proceedings. The obligation of the later treaty, by, its
terms, extends generally to fugitives charged with the
several offenses named, without regard to the date of
their commission. See In re Giacomo, 12 Blatch. 391;
1 Moore on Extradition, § 86. It does not purport to
exclude from its operation crimes committed before signature or promulgation, as did Article VIII of the Treaty
of 1889. Hence, it did not by mere force of the abrogation of the earlier treaty relinquish the obligation under
it to surrender the petitioner, but continued it by making
the offense with which he was charged extraditable even
though it antedated the treaty.
The extradition proceeding has not come to an end.
The petitioner's commitment by order of the commissioner
was "to abide the order of the Secretary of State," and
continues in force so long as the Secretary may lawfully
order his extradition. Hence, the new treaty, if in force,
is authority for the Secretary to issue his extradition
warrant under § 653 of U.S.C.A., Title 18. The detention of the petitioner being lawful under treaty provisions
continuously in force since his arrest, the proceeding in
habeas corpus is not moot and does not abate merely because the obligation to surrender the petitioner for trial
upon the offense charged, and for which he is held, originating in one treaty, was continued without change of
substance in the other. See Abie State Bank v. Bryan,
282 U.S. 765, 781.
Affirmed.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

BUTLER,

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

305

J., dissenting.

dissenting.

I. The decision just announced holds that the United
States is bound by treaty to surrender its citizens and
others to England there to be prosecuted criminally and
punished for that which if committed here would transgress no law-federal or state. And it is so held despite
the established rule that England is not by the treaty
bound to grant any extradition upon the demand of this
country unless the crime charged against the fugitive is
also a crime under English law. The Extradition Act,
1870, § 26, and First Schedule. Ex parte Piot, 15 Cox
C.C. 208. Re Bellencoutre, 17 Cox C.C. 253. Heretofore,
this court has steadfastly held that a fugitive, whether
alien or a citizen, will not be extradited unless the facts
alleged against him in the demanding country are there
made criminal, constitute a crime covered by the treaty
and are denounced as crime either by some Act of Congress or by the laws of the State where the fugitive is
found. Wright v. Henkel, 190 U.S. 40, 58. Kelly v. Griffin, 241 U.S. 6,14, 15. Bingham v. Bradley, 241 U.S. 511,
517-518. Collins v. Loisel, 259 U.S. 309, 311-312, 317.
See Pettit v. Walshe, 194 U.S. 205, 217-218. Glucksman
v. Henkel, 221 U.S. 508, 513. The lower courts have adhered to the same rule. In re Muller, 17 Fed. Cas. 975.
Cohn v. Jones, 100 Fed. 639, 645-646. In re Frank, 107
Fed. 272, 277. Powell v. United States, 206 Fed. 400, 403.
Collier v. Vaccaro, 51 F. (2d) 17, 19. Bernstein v. Gross,
58 F. (2d) 154, 155. See Greene v. United States, 154 Fed.
401, 406. Cf. In re Dubroca y Paniagua,33 F. (2d) 181.'
1 It is true that Judge Betts, in 1847, in Re Metzger, 17 Fed. Cas.
232, construed a provision of the French-American treaty that is not
distinguishable from that now before us, not to require local criminality and held that unless otherwise specified, both parties to the
treaty are bound to grant extradition for any listed offense even if
not criminal in the place of asylum. But the supreme court of New
York, without passing upon that point, discharged Metzger. 1 Barb.

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

All the text writers, at least so far as research of counsel
and court has disclosed, lay down the same principle.
Pomeroy, International Law (ed. by Woolsey) §§ 198,
199. Biron and Chalmers, Extradition, p. 11. 1 Phillimore, International Law (3rd ed.), § 367, p. 521. Moore,
Extradition, §§ 94, 96.
II. Petitioner, found in Illinois, is accused in England
of having received money knowing it to have been fraudulently obtained by the Broad Street Press, Limited.
Item 3 of the Convention of 1889 contains the pertinent words-" receiving any money . . . knowing the
same to have been . . . fraudulently obtained." Such
receiving has not been made criminal by any Act of
Congress or any law of Illinois. On that ground, petitioner sought discharge on habeas corpus. Kelly v. Griffin, supra, held that acts such as those alleged against
petitioner constitute crime in Illinois. England did not
contend that local criminality is not essential but relied
upon the ruling in that case. District Judge Fitzhenry,
deeming himself bound, remanded petitioner.
At the hearing before the commissioner, petitioner
called as witnesses a number of eminent Illinois lawyers.
Their testimony shows beyond doubt that receiving
money or property knowing the same to have been
fraudulently obtained has not been denounced as crime
by the laws of Illinois. England relied solely upon Kelly
v. Griffin and insisted that the commssioner was bound
by that decision. The latter accepted that view. Petitioner sought review and release on habeas corpus. District Judge Carpenter heard the application, found such
receiving not a crime in Illinois and ordered petitioner's
discharge. On appeal England still insisted that Kelly v.
Griffin required a contrary ruling. The Circuit Court of
248. It does not appear that he was ever retaken or surrendered for
prosecution in France. England's brief on reargument fails to cite the
case. And see Moore, Extradition, § 344.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

Appeals so held. One of the three judges dissented. It
was in that court that England first suggested that criminality in Illinois is not essential.2 The court held against
that contention, citing Collins v. Loisel, supra; Kelly v.
Griffin, supra, and Wright v. Henkel, supra.
On the first argument here England adhered to its contention that Kelly v. Griffin ruled the case and also argued
that criminality at the place of asylum is not essential.
Unable-to hold that the acts charged against petitioner
constitute crime in Illinois, this court ordered reargument
upon all questions and directed attention to a point not
theretofore suggested: "The interpretation placed upon
Article X of the treaty of 1842 by the Secretary of State
of the United States, John C. Calhoun, shortly after the
ratification of the Treaty (August 7, 1844, January 28,
1845, MSS. Inst. Gr. Br.), and also to the available diplomatic correspondence relating to Article X of the Treaty
of 1842 and the Treaty of 1889."
On reargument petitioner brought forward all diplomatic correspondence available to him. It related, not
only to the Treaties of 1842 and 1889, but also to subsequent treaties prior to the Dawes-Simon Treaty, 1932.
The latter, designed to cover the entire field and to supersede the treaties under consideration, was adopted after
extended negotiation. It has been ratified by the Senate
and published here. But, while it was duly ratified in
England on July 29, 1932, the Order in Council necessary
there to make it effective has not yet been promulgated.
Our Secretary of State holds that the treaty is not in force.
It results, therefore, that the diplomatic correspondence
leading up to its consummation was not available to petitioner. England fails to produce any part of it. She
"After the record in this case was made up before the commissioner,
the contention was made, but not passed upon, in the United States
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in United States v.
Fetters, 1 F.Supp. 637.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

appears to attribute to Secretary Calhoun's contentions
cited in our order little, if any, greater weight than when
they were put aside by Her Majesty's Government nearly
a century ago. It is to be presumed that, if correspondence leading up to the Dawes-Simon Treaty would support
the idea that local criminality is not essential, England
would produce it here.
On reargument England gave little, if any, support to
its claim that the " receiving " alleged against petitioner is
crime in Illinois. And this court, impliedly at least, now
holds that it is not, and to that extent overrules Kelly v.
Griffin. England's brief on reargument frankly concedes
that it has been the policy of both parties to limit extradition to acts made criminal in the place of asylum.. It
safely may be said that she does not now seek the adoption
of a contrary construction. But, taking a new hold, she
insists that the requirement of criminality in both countries is here satisfied. In support of that position she says
that petitioner cannot be *convictedwithout proof of guilty
knowledge; that the record shows he was a party to the
fraud by which the money was obtained, and that, as
obtaining by false pretenses and participation in that offense are both criminal in Illinois and extraditable, it
must be held that extradition of the petitioner would be
within the rule. The court does not take that point, and
therefore it need not))Ae considered here. It is mentioned
for the purpose of disclosing the principal, if not indeed
the sole, ground upon which extradition is now claimed.
III. But the court's decision rests upon the ground that
the United States impliedly agreed to extradite for acts
not made criminal by its laws or the laws of the state of
asylum. Admittedly England did not so agree. There
is no warrant for the discrimination. The parties dealt
as equals. All their extradition treaties disclose the intention that they shall stand on the same footing. The

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

BUTLER,

309

J., dissenting.

governing principle always has been reciprocity and
equality.
The extradition provisions of the Jay Treaty of 1794,
Art. 27, 8 Stat. 116, 129, which continued in force 12
years, were:
"It is further agreed, that His Majesty and the United
States, on mutual requisitions .. . will deliver up to justice all persons, who, being charged with murder or forgery, committed within the jurisdiction of either, shall
seek an asylum within any of the countries of the other,
provided that this shall only be done on such evidence of
criminality, as, according to the laws of the place, where
the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would
justify his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the
offence had there been committed ..
"
(Italics supplied.)
The Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842 (8 Stat. 572)
in its preamble declares:
"And whereas it is found expedient, for the better administration of justice and the prevention of crime within
the territories and jurisdiction of the two parties, respectively, that persons committing the crimes hereinafter
enumerated, and being fugitives from justice, should,
under certain circumstances, be reciprocally delivered up."
(Italics supplied.)
It repeats the clause, originating in the Jay Treaty, providing for mutual requisitions. It includes five additional
crimes, making seven in all. They are (Art. X, p. 576):
murder, assault with intent to commit murder, piracy,
arson, robbery, forgery, and the utterance of forged paper.
It also repeats the proviso contained in the Jay Treaty.
The declaration of purpose that fugitives be "reciprocally delivered up "and the provision for" mutual requisi-tions" mean that neither shall have advantage over the
other, or be entitled to demand any extradition which
under corresponding circumstances it would not be bound

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BuTLER, J., disenting.

290 U.S.

to grant, and directly negative the notion that the United
States alone is bound to extradite for acts not criminal
where the fugitive is found.
The Blaine-Pauncefote Convention of 1889 (26 Stat.
1508) added to the list in the Webster-Ashburton Treaty
ten numbered offenses. They are:
" 1. Manslaughter, when voluntary.
2. Counterfeiting or altering money; uttering or bringing into circulation counterfeit or altered money.
3. Embezzlement; larceny; receiving any money, valuable security, or other property, knowing the same to have
been embezzled, stolen, or fraudulently obtained.
4. Fraud by bailee, banker, agent, factor, trustee, or
director or member or officer of any company, made criminal by the laws of both countries.
5. Perjury, or subornation of perjury.
6. Rape; abduction; child-stealing; kidnapping.
7. Burglary; house-breaking or shop-breaking.
8. Piracy by the law of nations.
9. Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt by two or more persons on board a.ship on the high seas, against the authority of the master; wrongfully sinking or destroying a vessel
at sea, or attempting to do so; assaults on board a ship
on the high seas, with intent to do grievous bodily harm.
10. Crimes and offences against the laws of both countries for the suppression of slavery and slave-trading."
"Extradition is also to take place for participation in
any of the crimes mentioned in this Convention or in the
aforesaid Tenth Article, provided such participation be
punishable by the laws of both countries."
The supplementary treaty of 1900 (32 Stat. 1864)
added:
"11. Obtaining money, valuable securities or other
property by false pretenses.
12. Wilful and unlawful destruction or obstruction of
railroads which endangers human life.
13. Procuring abortion."

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
2176

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

The supplementary treaty of 1905 (34 Stat. 2903)
added:
" 14. Bribery, defined to be the offering, giving or receiving of bribes made criminal by the laws of both
countries.
15. Offences, if made criminal by the laws of both countries, against bankruptcy law."
IV. The majority opinion notes the absence of any express requirement of criminality in both countries in item
3, which includes the acts alleged against petitioner; it
emphasizes" made criminal by the laws of both countries"
qualifying "fraud " in item 4, and from that it infers that,
as to acts not similarly qualified, criminality in the asylum
state here is not essential. That indeed is the ground
upon which the court's opinion rests.
But the indefinite terms by which the qualified offenses
are designated fully account for the use of the words of
limitation. An examination of the list discloses that,
where there is an express requirement of the criminality
in both countries, the purpose is to make certain that
the acts are criminal, or to safeguard against demands
for extradition for acts not criminal in the asylum country. Neither the Jay Treaty nor the Webster-Ashburton
Treaty contains any provision expressly limiting extradi;
tion to acts made criminal in both countries. No such
specification was necessary, as the transgressions listed
are grave and well-known to have been denounced as
crimes by the laws of both countries. Qualifying clauses
are often used in treaties, statutes and agreements where
the meaning would be the same if they were omitted.
Article II of the Convention of 1889 furnishes an example. It declares that no fugitive shall be surrendered
for any offense of a political character. As no crime of
that sort is listed, the provision is unnecessary. That
clause, like the expression requiring criminality in both
countries, is used, not to add or change meaning, but to

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BuTLER, J., dissenting.

290 US.

emphasize and insure adherence to a well-known general
principle always held applicable in the absence of any
such specification. And Article III declares that a person surrendered cannot be tried in the demanding country for any crime committed prior to extradition other
than that for which he was extradited. These clauses add
nothing to the protection to which the fugitive has been
held entitled in the absence of such stipulations. United
States v. Rauscher, 119 U.S. 407, 419-422.
The history of item 4 negatives any inference such as
that drawn by the majority. It was taken from, and,
omitting "public," is. precisely the same as, a clause in
the British Extradition Act.' As "public officer of any
company" is unknown to our law, the word "public"
was dropped. In the British statute " fraud" is qualified
by " made criminal by any act for the time being in force."
A corresponding definition of " fraud" in the treaty was
needed for clarification, and so the clause "made criminal
by the laws of both countries" was added. The doubts.
that reasonably might arise as to the meaning of the words
used more than justified this qualification. Fraud may or
may not constitute crime. When the word is used without
qualification it does not mean a criminal offense. The
item extends to numerous classes of persons, even to members of a corporation. The word "company" is broad
enough to include unincorporated associations as well as
corporations of all sorts. The laws regulating bankers and
others included are well known to lack uniformity and to
be subject to frequent changes. Absence of some definitive expression would have left it uncertain whether the
"fraud " listed was a civil or criminal wrong.
'The first schedule of the British Extradition Act contains the following: " Fraud by a bailee, banker, agent, factor, trustee or director,
or member, or public officer of any company made criminal by any act
for the time being in force." The words italicized are omitted from
the treaty.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

Buma, J., dissenting.

The court does not invoke support from the other items
in which qualifying expressions are used. And these items
show that the implication drawn by the opinion from
the qualifying words in item 4 is groundless and that
there is no basis for the application of the canon of construction, expressio unius, etc. Springer v. PhilippineIsland8, 277 U.S. 189, 206. Let them be examined.
Item 10 covers "crimes or offences against the laws of
both countries for the suppression of slavery and slavetrading." If the phrase "against the laws of both countries " were omitted, the provision would have no meaning.
The unnumbered item in the Convention of 1889 covers
"participation" in the commission of, the crimes listed
in that Convention and in the Treaty of 1842. The limitation to such as is made punishable by the laws of both
countries was added to bring "participation " within the
general principle. The parties did not intend that one
accused of such receiving in England would be extraditable from a State where the act violates no law, while
the person guilty of participation by aiding, inducing, procuring or commanding him to commit the crime would be
entitled there safely to remain.
The "bribery" covered by item 14 is limited to such as
is defined by the laws of both countries. The correspondence leading to agreement upon that item shows that both
parties intended as always to adhere to the principle of
limiting extradition to acts made criminal by the laws of
both countries. Ambassador Choate for the United States
proposed a clause not expressly requiring criminality in
both countries. The Marquess of Lansdowne for His
Brittanic Majesty proposed the form adopted. Choate
accepted and in a carefully prepared letter made it perfectly plain that, upon the principle declared in Wright
v. Henkel, supra, the rule requiring criminality in both
countries would apply even if not stated in the item.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

Offences against bankruptcy law, if made criminal by
the laws of both countries, are covered by item 15. Lack
of uniformity in different parts of the Empire and, when
no federal Act is in force, among the several States in this
country, made the qualification of criminality in both
countries necessary in the interest of certainty and to
maintain the general rule that the asylum country denies
extradition for acts not there deemed criminal. Moreover, the qualifying clause is necessary to limit the provision to criminal acts, for without it " offences...
against the bankruptcy law " would not necessarily imply
criminality, but might include, for example, such transgressions as merely require denial of discharge.
It is said that, as some States denounce as criminal the
receiving of money or property, knowing the same to have
been fraudulently obtained, while others do not, extradition is made to depend upon the place where the fugitive
happens to be found. That suggestion gives no support
to the decision. The negotiators well knew that criminal
laws are not the same throughout the territories involved.
England acted for all parts of the British Empire, the
United States acted for itself and all the States. Undoubtedly, the criminal laws in England, Ireland, Scotland, Australia, Canada and other territories beyond the
seas differ as widely as do those in Illinois, New York,
Pennsylvania and other States. These treaties were made
having regard to such lack of uniformity.
While the proviso in Article X relates to the quantum of
evidence required to support the demand for extradition
rather than to the obligations assumed or rights granted,
it significantly coincides with the principle that extradition will not be granted by the asylum country for acts
not there deemed criminally wrong. Indeed, when taken
in connection with the declaration of mutuality and reciprocity and the crimes named in the list, the proviso
supports that principle. For obviously, as in substance

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

BUTLER,

315

J., dissenting.

suggested by England and held by the majority, the proviso means that extradition shall only be granted upon
such evidence as according to the laws of the place where
the fugitive is found "would justify his apprehension and
commitment for trial, if [the acts constituting] the crime
or offence had there been committed."
V. The court's decision is in direct conflict with the
principle governing the interpretation of extradition
treaties as propounded by the United States and as declared by this court in Wright v. Henkel, supra. The
Solicitor General said (190 U.S. 55, 56): "That the offence
must be one made criminal by the laws of both countries
is a principle inherent in all extradition treaties. This is
obvious because of the reciprocal nature of such engagements and the existence and similarity of crime in all
places, whatever the differences as to definition and incidents of any particular crime.... Treaties plainly imply
the doctrine, but do not ordinarily express it. Such is
the force of the phrase 'mutual requisitions.' Art. X,
Webster-Ashburton Treaty." And, applying the rule to
the case then in hand, the brief added: "No phrase was
needed in the treaty of 1889 to explain the crimes of
murder, burglary, etc., nor to express the necessity of
criminality in both countries. They are criminal in both
countries without that. The difference as to clause 4 . ..
respecting fraud by bailee is that as to that class of
offences, not yet completely established as criminal, the
two powers decline to engage respecting species still carrying a mere civil liability, and therefore the phrase 'made
criminal by the laws of both countries' was used."
And this court, speaking through its Chief Justice, said
(pp. 57, 58): "Treaties must receive a fair interpretation,
according to the intention of the contracting parties, and
so as to carry out their manifest purpose. . . . The general principle of international law is that in all cases of
extradition the act done on account of which extradition

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

is demanded must be considered a crime by both parties,
and as to the offence charged in this case [fraud covered
by item 4] the treaty of 1889 embodies that principle in
terms. The offence must be 'made criminal by the laws
of both countries' . . ." P. 60: " Where there was reason

to doubt whether the generic term- embraced a particular
variety, specific language was used. As for instance, . . .
as to fraud and breach of trust, which had been brought
within the grasp of criminal law in comparatively recent
times."
The principle governing interpretation of extradition
treaties, so definitely explained by the Chief Justice in
Wright v. Henkel, supra, has been uniformly followed
here.
In Kelly v. Griffin, upra, perjury was one of the of-

fenses for which Canada sought extradition of the fugitive from Illinois. That offense is covered by item 5,
which contains no express requirement of criminality in
both countries. In that respect it is identical with item 3,
which covers the receiving here involved. In that country, false testimony, whether material or not, constitutes
perjury. But materiality is essential in Illinois. This
court found that the false testimony alleged to have been
given in Canada was in fact material to the matter there
in hand, quoted (p. 14) from Wright v. Henkel, supra:
"It is enough if the particular variety was criminal in
both jurisdictions," and held for extradition.
In Bingham v. Bradley, supra, the offense was receiving
money knowing the same to have been stolen. That is
covered by item 3, the construction of which is here involved. The court assumed as definitely established by
prior decisions that criminality in 'both countries was
essential. And, in concluding its decision holding the
fugitive extraditable, it said (p. 517): "And since the
jurisdiction of the Commissioner is clear, and the evidence abundantly sufficient to furnish reasonable ground

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

for the belief that appellant has committed within the
Dominion of Canada a crime that is an offense under the
laws of the Dominion, as well as under those of Illinois
. . . and is covered by the terms of the treaty, and that
he is a fugitive from justice, a fair observance of the
obligations of the treaty requires that he be surrendered."
In Collins v. Loisel, supra, the offense was obtaining
property by false pretenses, covered by item 11, which
contains no words requiring criminality in both countries.
The court, directly alluding to the established rule, said
(p. 311): " It is true that an offense is extraditable only
if the acts charged are criminal by the laws of both
countries." And further (p. 312): "The law does not
require that the name by which the crime is described in
the two countries shall be the same; nor that the scope
of the liability shall be coextensive, or, in other respects,
the saine in the two countries. It is enough if the particular act charged is criminal in both jurisdictions. This
yeas held with reference to different crimes involving false
statements in Wright v. Henkel, 190 U.S. 40, 58; Kelly v.
Griffin, 241 U.S. 6, 14; Benson v. McMahon, 127 U.S.
457, 465; and Greene v. United States, 154 Fed. 401.
Compare Ex parte Piot, 15 Cox C.C. 208. The offense
charged was, therefore, clearly extraditable."
VI. Some of the reasons supporting the requirement of
criminality in both countries as sound and expedient are
stated in the report of a royal commission created in 1877
by Queen Victoria to inquire into and consider the workings and effect of the laws and treaties relating to extradition.' It says (§ VI): "The crimes in respect of which
'Royal Commission on Extradition. Report of the Commissioners.
The Commissioners were: Sir Alexander Cockburn, Lord Chief Justice; Baron Selborne, Privy Councillor; Baron Blackburn, Lord of
Appeal; Russell Gurney, Privy Councillor; Sir Richard Baggalay,
Court of Appeal; Sir William Brett, Court of Appeal; Sir John Rose;
Sir James Fitzjames Stephen Q.C.; Sir William Harcourt, Q.C.;
William Torrens, Esq.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

nations should make common cause against criminals, and
refuse them shelter, are those which it is the common interest of all to repress. There are offences against society
in respect of person and property, which, in all countries,
there will always be found persons disposed to commit,
and which can only be kept under by the strong arm of
the law. It is these offences which it should be the common purpose of all nations to endeavor to suppress by
preventing those who have committed them from escaping from justice. But these offences are known to and
dealt with by the law of all civilised nations, though they
may be differently dealt with both as to procedure and
punishment. If some offence, unkn~own to the law of
other nations--to what may figuratively be called the
common law of' nations--should be created by the law of
a particular people, such an offence would not come within
the category of crimes which it. is the purpose of
extradition to repress.
"If it be asked how it is to be ascertained that the
offence charged is known and recognized as an offence, the
answer is that our own law will afford a sufficient test,
being abundantly comprehensive as to offences against
person and property.
"Besides which, there is another reason for seeing that
the charge in respect of which extradition is asked for is
an offence under our own law. It is and always must be
necessary that a prima facie case shall be made out before
a magistrate in order to support the application for extradition. But the English magistrate cannot be expected to
know or interpret the foreign law. It is not desirable that
he should be required to do more than to see that the facts
proved constitute prima facie an offense which would have
been within judicial-cognizance if done in this country."
(Italics added.)
The principle that a nation will not grant extradition
for acts not there made criminal is laid down by authoritative writers on the law of extradition.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

BUTLER,

319

J., dissenting.

Biron and Chalmers, in their work on Extradition, p.
11, say: "As against the State where the fugitive is found
his claim for protection is imperative, unless it can be
proved that had his act taken place therein it would have
involved the transgression of the laws of that State." Sir
Robert Phillimore, 1 International Law, 3rd ed., § 367,
p. 521, says: "There are two circumstances to be observed . . . in . . . cases of Extradition:-1. That the

country demanding the criminal must be the country in
which the crime is committed. 2. That the act done, on
account of which his Extradition is demanded, must be
considered as a crime by both States." Pomeroy, International Law, ed. by Woolsey, § 198, p. 237, says: "The act
done must be such as is regarded as a crime by both states;
this would cut off the case of all mere political offenders."
Moore, Extradition, § 96, p. 112, says: "While it is an
accepted principle that the acts for which extradition is
demanded must constitute an offense according to the laws
of both countries, yet the laws which have actually been
violated are those of the demanding government."
VII. The opinion of the majority leans but lightly upon
the construction put upon the treaty by the letters of Secretary Calhoun, brought into view by the order for reargument.
. When the historical background and the precise point
under consideration are held in mind, it is plain that his
contentions have no bearing upon the question before us.
For years prior to 1842 the right of owners to have fugitive slaves returned to them had become a matter of grave
concern in southern States. Mr. Calhoun was a leader
in the struggle for the vindication of that right and the
maintenance of slavery. England, having earlier moved
to suppress slave-trading, had then quite recently
abolished slavery. Many of her people strongly favored
abolition in the United States and everywhere. Many
slaves had fled from this country to the West Indies and to
Canada. Shortly before the case in which Secretary Cal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
B3UTLER,

J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

houn wrote the letters in question, it was earnestly maintained by.leaders in the House of Lords that slaves who
for the purpose of securing their freedotl1klled their masters were guilty of no offense.' Some of England's-most
eminent statesmen and jurists opposed extradition of
fugitive slaves for any transgression of our laws.

For

example, Aberdeen said: "Not only was a fugitive slave
guilty of no crime in endeavoring to escape from a state of
bondage, but he was entitled to the sympathy and encouragement of all those who were animated by Christian
feelings." 70 Hansard, Third Series, p. 474.
The Secretary's letters were written, not as rulings, but
solely for the purpose of furnishing the American minister
arguments to be-submitted to Lord Aberdeen as Foreign
Secretary. The case was this: Slaves in Florida killed
those who held them in service and fled to British West
Indies. That state indicted them for~murder. The United
States, upon the indictment without more, demanded their
extradition. The insular court held no ground for extradition had been shown. It 'said: "An indictment per se
can never be received as tvidence. It is not enough for
us to know that the American jury thought the parties
guilty. We ought to know the grounds upon which they
thought them guilty. What may constitute the crime of
murder in Florida may be very far from doing so according
to the British laws or even in the laws of the northern
States of America."
Tlhe Secretary, deeply moved by the implied suggestion
that homicide committed by a slave in an effort to secure
release from bondage was justifiable or excusable, directed
the American minister to present the case to the British
'The occasion of these utterances was the mutiny, seizure of The
Creole in American waters, the killing of those in charge -of the ship

and flight of 120 slaves to Nassau, where a number of them were taken
into custody, partly for murder and partly for piracy. See 60 Hansard, Parliamentary Debates, 3rd Series, pp. 26, 318.

FACTOR v. LAUBENHEIMER.
276

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

Government. He maintained that, as in this country the
Florida indictment was sufficient to justify the apprehension of the person accused and his commitment for
trial, then by virtue of the proviso- in Article X the
asylum country was bound to hold that the indictment
without more Was sufficient to require extradition of the
fugitive. As shown by our minister's report, Lord Aberdeen merely held that under the Act of Parliament carrying the treaty into effect "an indictment is not of itself
sufficient ground for giving up a fugitive." And he remarked that the same answer would have been given had
the persons demanded been free. The question presented
and decided was merely one of evidence. The Secretary's
suggestions as to requirements of criminality in the asylum
country were-not germane, and therefore without weight
as an official interpretation.
His suggestion, arguendo, that the treaty requires extradition for acts not made criminal in the place of asylum
has never been adopted in England. That country has
never claimed, and does not now maintain, that the interpretation so brought forward is binding on the United
States. It has never been followed in practice. It is
directly repugnant to the contentions of the United
States, and the opinion of this court, in Wright y. Henkel,
supra, and conflicts with a long line of judgments following that decision. It is disregarded, indeed impliedly repudiated, in the official correspondence between Ambassador Choate and the Marquess of Lansdowne, above mentioned. It follows that Secretary Calhoun's contentions,
even if they were pertinent in the case where made, do
not make in favor of extradition or lend any support to
the court's decision.
I am of opinion:
The acts of receiving of which petitioner is accused in
England are not made criminal in Illinois where he was
found. That is now practically conceded by England.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

The court impliedly so holds and necessarily--even if sub
silentio-overrules its decision on that point in Kelly v.
Griffin, 241 U.S. 6, 15.
The contracting parties, upon adequate grounds and
in accordance with uniform usage, have always adhered
to tho principle that extradition will not be granted for
acts that are not deemed criminal in the place of asylum.
There is nothing in the treaties to support the majority
opinion that, while England is not similarly bound, the
United States agreed to deliver up fugitives for acts not
criminal in the place of asylum.
The proviso in Article X prescribes the evidence that
the demanding country is required to produce. It impliedly indicates that neither party agreed to extradite for
acts not criminal under its laws.
The letters of Secretary Calhoun pointed to by our
order for reargument do not support the majority opinion.
They have no bearing upon the question presented.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should
be reversed.

I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS join in this dissent.
STRINGFELLOW v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R.
CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Argued November 14, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

In actions (consolidated for trial) against a railroad for deaths of
the driver of an automobile and persons riding with him, in a
Together with No. 95, Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. String-

fellow, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circut.

