570

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
290 U.S.

Syllabus.

enjoining the appellants from enforcing the first order
for, as insisted by appellants in oral argument in this
court, the challenged provisions are merely preliminary
steps in aid of investigations for the ascertainment of the
reasonableness of appellees' rates, and they have no binding force in respect of payments to the pipe line company
or rates to be charged consumers and cannot be res adjudicata. The decree in so far as it enjoins enforcement of
the provisions of that order will be vacated.
The commission, its members and attorney general having in their answer and here admitted that the commission's second order is invalid, the decree in so far as it
enjoins the enforcement of its provisions will be affirmed.
Decree modified and, as modified, affirmed.
P. F. PETERSEN BAKING CO. ET AL. v. BRYAN,

GOVERNOR,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 203. Argued December 8, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.
1. In order to protect purchasers of bread from imposition by sale
of short loaves, a State has power to prescribe not only the minimum weights of loaves that may be sold by bakers, but also the
maximum tolerances in excess of those weights. P. 573.
2. A Nebraska statute enacts that every loaf made for sale in Nebraska shall be one-half pound, one pound, one and one-half
pounds, or exact multiples of one pound, and that the Secretary
of Agriculture of the State shall prescribe reasonable tolerances
or variations in excess of those weights and the time for which
they shall be maintained. Fines are to be imposed for violations.
A regulation by the Secretary fixes the tolerance at not more than
three ounces per pound and requires that the bread be so made
that under normal conditions it will maintain the minimum weight
for not less than twelve hours after cooling; the weights are to be
determined by taking the average of not less than five loaves, if
available; and bakers are not made responsible for maintenance
of minimum weights after delivery to a retail dealer or consumer

PETERSEN BAKING CO. v. BRYAN.
570

Opinion of the Court.

or to a transportation agency for delivery. The Act excepts
"fancy breads," without defining them. Held:
(1) That the tolerance so fixed is not unreasonable. Burnms Baking Co. v. Bryan, 264 U.S. 504, distinguished. P. 573.
(2) It does not appear that the delegation of authority to the
executive officer, including the implied authority to decide what
is covered by the term "fancy breads," is arbitrary. P. 574.
3. One who attacks a statute as unconstitutional must show that it
is unconstitutional in its application to himself. P. 575.
4. Where'a statute regulating the weights of loaves has the double
purpose of protecting consumers from short weight and of protecting the bakers from unfair competition, it will not be held
unconstitutional as to bakers unless shown to be so in both
aspects. P. 575.
5. One who complains that regulations promulgated under legislative authority by a state board are unreasonable and oppressive,
should seek relief by applying to that board to modify them,
before bringing suit. P. 575.
124 Neb. 464; 247 N.W. 39, affirmed.

This suit was brought by several baking companies to
enjoin the Governor and the Acting Secretary of Agriculture of the State of Nebraska from enforcing an Act for
the regulation of weights of loaves of bread. The court
below sustained a decree dismissing the complaint.
Messrs. Harold D. LeMar and John C. Grover for
appellants.
Mr. Paul F. Good, with whom Mr. Daniel Stubbs was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellants are makers of bread for sale in Nebraska.
The appellees, the governor and deputy secretary of agriculture, are authorized to enforce an act to establish a
standard loaf. Laws 1931, c. 162, p. 430. Appellants sued
in the district court of Lancaster county to have the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

measure decreed invalid and its enforcement enjoined
upon the ground of repugnancy to the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The court upheld- the law and dismissed the
petition. The supreme court affirmed. 124 Neb. 464; 247
N.W. 39.
The challenged enactment declares that every loaf
made.for sale in Nebraska shall be one-half pound, one
pound, one and one-half pounds or exact multiples of one
pound and provides that the act shall not apply to fancy
breads; directs the secretary of agriculture to prescribe
reasonable tolerances or variations in excess of, but not
under, the specified weights and the time for which said
weights shall be maintained, and imposes fines for violations.
Rules and regulations promulgated by the deputy secretary of agriculture require the rate of tolerance not to
exceed three ounces to the pound, the bread to be so
made that under normal conditions it will maintain the
minimum weight for not less than twelve hours after
cooling, the weights to be determined by taking the average of not less than five loaves, if available. They do not
purport to make bakers responsible for maintenance of
minimum weights after delivery to a retail dealer or
consumer or to a transportation agency for delivery.*
So far as need be specifically referred to, appellants' contentions are that: (1) A maximum tolerance is arbitrary
and discriminatory. (2) The statute vests arbitrary
power in the secretary of agriculture. (3) It is impossible
June 24, 1931, the deputy secretary of agriculture prescribed a
maximum tolerance of one ounce on half pound loaves, two ounces
on pound loaves and ten per cent. on larger loaves, the tolerance to
apply for a period of.twelve hours after baking and the weights to be
determined by taking the average of not less than five loaves, if available. After the commencement of this suit that regulation was
superseded by the one -here in question.

PETERSEN BAKING CO. v. BRYAN.
570

Opinion of the Court.

to comply with the prescribed toleiances, and the provisions as to time, place, possession and particular loaves
subject bakers to fines irrespective of negligence.
The fixing of a maximum weight for each size or class
of loaves is not unreasonable. In Burns Baking Co. v.
Bryan, 264 U.S. 504, we were called on to. consider the
constitutionality of a similar measure. Nebraska Laws
1921, c. 2, p. 56. We there adverted to the undoubted
power of the State to protect purchasers of bread from
imposition by the sale of short-weight loaves (Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226 U.S. 578, 588) and showed that the
purpose of prescribing minimum weights is to prevent
sellers from palming off loaves of smaller size as those of a
larger size. The tolerances prescribed by that statute
were at the rate of two ounces to the pound of the minimum weight required to be maintained for 24 hours after
baking. Here the rate of tolerance is three ounces to the
pound, and minima are required to be maintained only 12
hours after cooling. In that case the evidence demonstrated that, owing to evaporation frova bread under conditions of temperature and humidity that often prevail
in Nebraska, it was impossible to make good bread in the
regular. way without exceeding the tolerances then prescribed. And it was held that a relatively much wider
spread between the required minimum and the permitted
maximum weight applicable to each size or class of loaves
would be equally effective to prevent deception and that
therefore the maxima complained of were unneceisary and
arbitrary.
The diminution in weight of dough while being baked
or of bread after baking cannot be definitely determined
in advance. It may be usefully approximated. If only
one size or class of loaves were being made, the fixing of
minimum weight might be effective to prevent shortweight sales. But that is not the situation in Nebraska.
The classes of loaves being made for sale and distributed

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

there include those being sold as one-half pound, a pound,
a pound and a quarter, a pound and a half. The mere
prescribing of a minimum weight for each class reasonably
may be deemed not effective for there might be made such
intermediate sizes as would permit 'deception and fraud.
The danger is illustrated by the twenty ounce loaf being
made by appellants. The statute prohibits it, undoubtedly for the reason that its weight is only four ounces
more than the pound loaf and four ounces less than the
pound and a half loaf. Unquestionably there are adequate grounds for prohibiting a loaf of that size. The
fixing of both maximum and minimum weights for each
class fairly may be deemed appropriate and necessary. If
not too low, there is no support for the claim that the
maximum is arbitrary or discriminatory.
There is no merit in the claim that the delegation of
authority to the secretary violates the due process or equal
protection clause. The act fixes the minimum weight of
loaves of each size or class. The lessening of weight during and immediately following baking depends on changing conditions and varies considerably. Maxima that
readily may be complied with in one period may be found
too low at another time. The Nebraska legislature is not
constantly in session and convenes regularly only once in
two years. But the secretary may act at any time as need
arises. Presumably the delegation was made in the interest of justice to the bakers as well as for the convenient
enforcement of th6 statute and regulations. Chicago &
N. W. Ry. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. 866, 875. Nor does the
failure of the act to define " fancy breads" and the implied direction that the secretary shall ascertain what is
covered by the phrase operate to vest arbitrary power in
him. It is not shown that in the trade the phrase does not
have an established meaning. On the contrary, the evidence tends to show that it has. The trial court found
that it is " sufficiently definite "and that it does not cover

PETERSEN BAKING CO. v. BRYAN.
570

"common

Opinion of the Court.

white bread." It does not appear that any
requirement here involved applies to fancy bread made
by appellants or other bakeries. Castillo v. McConnico,
168 U.S. 674, 680. Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U.S. 213,
225. Yazoo & M. V. R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226
U.S. 217, 219-220. Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,
232 U.S. 531, 544-546. The delegation of authority appears to be well within the principles established by our
decisions. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U.S.
298, 305. Red "C" Oil Co. v. North Carolina,222 U.S.
380, 394. And see St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor,
210 U.S. 281, 287. Union Bridge Co. v. United States,
204 U.S. 364. United States v. Grimaut, 220 U.S. 506.
Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U.S. 470, 496.
It is not shown that the prescribed tolerances are unreasonable or that the statute and regulations operate to
prescribe punishment in the absence of fault. The lower
court found, and the evidence warrants the finding, that
appellants and other bakers readily may comply with the
prescribed weights and tolerances. It is therefore to be
presumed that in the absence of fault or negligence, violations will not occur. The facts plainly distinguish this
case from Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan.
Moreover, the state supreme court held that a secondary purpose of the act is to prevent unfair competition by
dishonest bakers resulting in injury to the consuming
public. As there is no showing that the measure is not
reasonably calculated effectively to *servefor that purpose,
the judgment upholding the act must be affirmed. And,
in so far as it upholds the rules and regulations, it must
be affirmed upon another ground. The lower court, following our decision in Red" C " Oil Co. v. North Carolina,
supra, held that where one complains that regulations
promulgated under legislative authority by a state board
are unreasonable and oppressive, he should seek relief by
applying to that board to modify them. There is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

576

Opinion of the Court.

290 U.

suggestion that, if appellants had sought modification of
the tolerances complained of, their application would not
have been fairly considered. or that they would have been
denied relief to which they were entitled.
Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. HARTLEY
BROTHERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 200.

Argued December 14, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

Under ยง 20 of the first Cummins Amendment, 49 U.S.C., ยง 20
(11), an action against a carrier for damage to an interstate shipment, due to negligence in loading or unloading or in transit, need
not be preceded by notice or filing of the claim, and any provision
of the contract requiring such notice or filing as a condition
precedent, would be void. P. 578.
162 Okla. 194; 19 P. (2d) 337, affirmed.

CERTIORARI* to review the aflirmance of a judgment
against the Railroad Company in an action by a shipper
for damage to a consignment of cattle.
Mr. Wm.'L. Curtis argued the cause, and Messrs. Edward J. White and Thomas B. Pryor filed a brief, for
petitioner.
*Mr. H. D. Moreland argued the cause, and Mr. G. C.
Spillers filed a brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondents brought this action in the district court
of Rogers county to enforce a claim for damages against
the railroad company. May 4, 1927, they shipped seven
carloads of cattle from stations in Arkansas to themselves
at Delaware, Oklahoma. They delivered five loads
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

