N.W. PACIFIC R. CO. v. BOBO.
484

Syllabus.

The judgments of both courts must be reversed as to
the first and second claims and the cause remanded to the
District Court with directions to render judgment on the
findings as to these claims in conformity with the views
expressed in this opinion and to respect the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the third and fourth claims
and the remittitur given thereunder.

Judgments reversed.
NORTHWESTERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD

CO.

v.

BOBO, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA, FIRST APPELLATE DISTRICT, DIVISION ONE.

No. 163.

Submitted December 12, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

Decedent had for six months been employed by a railroad to operate
the draw and work the signals of its draw-bridge over a stream.
His decomposed body was found in the water two weeks from the
night on which he last worked and was last seen alive, but the
cause of death could nof be learned by examination of the corpse.
There was evidence tending to show that iron steps, on the outside
of the bridge, which he was obliged to use in going to and from
an engine house high above the track, and an iron platform at their
base, were inadequately guarded, were worn smooth and, when
moisture accumulated, were slippery, and that, a few hours after
his disappearance, small pieces of wool, possibly from the sheepskin
collar of his coat, and a little spot that looked like blood, were
found on the edge of the platform. The proofs also showed that he
had long used the stairway and platform with ample opportunity
to learn of their defects by good lantern light and early daylight;
and.there was no suggestion of any complaint having been made
to the railroad. Held:
1. There was nothing to show that, if the railroad was negligent
in respect of the 'stairway and platform, the negligence was the
proximate cause of the death. P. 503.
2. Proof of negligence alone does not entitle the plaintiff to
recover under the Employers' Liability Act. The negligence must
cause the injury. If on the evidence the cause is a .matter of

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

pure speculation, the case should be withdrawn from the jury.
P. 502.
3. The deceased assumed the risk. P. 509.
129 Cal. App. 273; 19 P. (2d) 10, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment of the District Court

of Appeal of California sustaining a judgment for the
plaintiff in a suit for death by negligence. The Supreme
Court of the State denied a hearing.
Mr. W. H. Orrick was on the brief for petitioner.
Mr. Robert D. Duke was on the brief for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Claiming under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
respondent sued the petitioner in the Superior Court,
Marin County, California, for damages consequent upon
the death of her husband, Perry E. Bobo. She maintains
that this was the proximate result of the Company's negligence while it employed him.
The complaint allegedThat on February 4, 1930, the decedent Bobo was a
tender of the bridge at Grand View, California, a portion
of petitioner's road; "it was part of said deceased's duties
as such bridge tender to uncouple the tracks and connections on said bridge, work the semaphore signals and open
and close the draw of said bridge; that in the course of
the performance of said duties said deceased was required
to go to the building on the top of said bridge for the
purpose of using the, mechanism located in said building
which was necessary to be used in the opening and closing
of said bridge and to work the semaphore signals; that
on said last mentioned date it became the duty of said
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

N.W. PACIFIC R. CO. v. BOBO.
499

Opinion of the Court.

deceased in the discharge of his duties as such bridge
tender to adjust the semaphore signals and that while returning from his duties he slipped upon the steps leading
up to said building and was precipitated into the waters
of the Petaluma Creek and came to his death."
"That said defendant was careless and negligent in this,
that it. failed to provide said deceased a safe place to do
the work required of him; that said bridge was installed
in an improper manner so as to render the same unsafe
and dangerous; that the steps leading to the building on
the top of said bridge were constructed, installed, used and
maintained by said defendant in an improper, faulty and
defective manner so as to render them unsafe and dangerous; that it failed to install proper guard rails on said
steps and the approaches thereto so as to protect persons
using said bridge and said steps; that it permitted said
steps to become uneven so that they sloped and permitted water to collect in depressions on said steps on which
said deceased slipped and fell."
A jury found in favor of the respondent and assessed
the damages at $12,500. Judgment thereon was affirmed
by the District Court of Appeal. The Supreme Court
refused to hear the cause and it comes here by certiorari.
The petitioner maintained that there was no evidence
to show the death resulted from its negligence, also that
Bobo assumed the risk, and asked for an instructed verdict. The trial court wrongly, we think, refused this
request.
The evidence shows that the deceased began his service
as bridge tender in August, 1929, and continued until he
disappeared February 4, 1930. His working hours were
from 9: 00 P. M. to 5 A. M. His duty was to open the
draw for the passage of boats, then close it, see that the
rails were properly aligned, and set the lights. The draw
was operated through an engine housed 26 feet above the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

rails. When not actually engaged Bobo ordinarily remained in a shanty near the end of the bridge. To reach
or return from the engine he went up or down a flight of
35 iron steps which ran along the outside of the bridge
structure, pitched at 481 degrees to the horizontal.
These steps were guarded by a single rail on either side.
They were 21 inches long and 8 inches wide. He was
furnished with a proper lantern to light the way,
February 3, 1930, at 9: 09 o'clock Bobo went to work.
HRe was last seen alive at 11: 00 o'clock; an entry in the
log book shows that he opened the draw the next morning
at 1: 30. Two weeks thereafter his body, badly decomposed, was found in the water some distance from the
bridge. To determine the cause of death from an examination of this was impossible.
When last seen the deceased wore a coat with sheepskin
collar. A few hours after his disappearance witnesses
discovered on the edge of the iron platform at the foot
of the stairway what seemed to be small pieces of wool;
also, a little spot which looked like blood. Some of the
steps and the platform had become smooth through use
during fifteen years or more. During the winter dew
often accumulated on these during the night and caused
them to become quite slippery. Also, witnesses stated,
the stairs and platform were not adequately guardedthe single rail was not enough and was placed too low.
Respondent's theory is that while properly discharging
his duties, Bobo slipped, fell into the water, and drowned.
Our decisions clearly show that "proof of negligence
alone does not entitle the plaintiff to recover under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. The negligence complained of must be the cause of the injury. The jury may
not be permitted to speculate as to its cause and the case
must be withdrawn from its consideration unless there is
evidence from which the inference may reasonably be

N.W. PACIFIC R. CO. v. BOBO.
499

Opinion of the Court.

drawn that the injury suffered was caused by the negligent act of the employer." Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Toops, 281 U.S. 351,354, 355; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co.
v. Coogan, 271 U.S. 472;, Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Saxon, 284 U.S. 458.
If petitioner was negligent in respect of the stairway
and platform, there is nothing whatsoever to show that
this was the proximate cause of the unfortunate death.
So to conclude would be pure speculation; and for reasons hretofore sufficiently elaborated judgments based
upon verdicts so arrived at cannot be permitted to stand.
Regarding the defense based upon assumption of the
risk, the District Court of Appeal said-" Here, so far as
shown, decedent had nevet ascended the stairway during
the day time, nor was he aware of the conditions which
made the structure dangerous. The complaint described
the defects which were alleged to have caused the injury;
and defendant contends that these allegations show that
the cause of death was a risk assumed by decedent, and
that consequently no cause of action was stated, citing
Bresette v. E. B. & A. L. Stone Co., 162 Cal. 74; 121
Pac. 312; but, as pointed out, the evidence was insufficient
to show that decedent knew of the defects described, or
that the conditions under which he was employed were
such that he must have known them."
With this conclusion we cannot agree. The deceased
had gone up and down these open stairs very many times
from August to February. He had a proper lantern by
the light of which he could easily see the alleged defects.
He must have been aware that moisture frequently accumulated. Also, often during the summer and early
autumn there was adequate sunlight before five o'clock
A.M. to disclose the real conditions. No suggestion is
made of any complaint to the Company concerning the
stairs or platform.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus

290 U.S.

We think the record discloses enough to show that the
decedent assumed any alleged risk. Seaboard Air Line Ry.
Co. v. Horton, 233 U.S. 492; New Orleans & N. E. R. Co.
v. Harris,247 U. S. 367, 371; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.
v. Kuhn, 284 U.S. 44, 46, 47.
Reversed.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI
FLERSHEM ET AL.*

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 62 and 63. Argued November 9, 10, 1933.-Decided
January 8, 1934.
A corporation, having suffered great losses but still highly solvent,
determined to scale down its debenture indebtedness. By its directors, it defaulted on the debenture interest, though fully able to
pay, and arranged the formation of a committee which solicited and
secured the deposit of 95% of the debentures, to be exchanged, pursuant to a proposed Plan of Reorganization, for debentures greatly
reduced in amount and security in a transferee corporation to be
formed. Minority debenture holders having brought suit to collect
their interest and threatened to levy on corporate assets, the Committee brought this creditors' bill for the appointment of a receiver,
to the allegations and prayer of which the defendant corporation
assented. An order of sale of the assets was made, fixing an upset
price based on so-called "scrap" value. The purchasers at the
sale transferred the corporate assets to the newly formed corporation, and on the joint petition of the purchasers and the new corporation the Plan of Reorganization was found fair and the sale
confirmed. Held:
1. That assuming that there was equity jurisdiction, there was
no equity in the bill to support the appointment of a receiver or
the interference with and discharge of creditors' rights. P. 515.
Together with No. 64, Arzt et al. v. Flershem et al., and No. 65,
Clapier v. Flershem et al., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit.

