OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 US.

value of the unfinished buildings and their value as it
would have been if completed in accordance with the
agreement-see Kidd v. McCormick, supra, p. 398--but
exceeding neither the amount due on its debt nor the
amount of the bond.
It appears from the findings that this difference would
be about $26,000, while the amount now due petitioner
is $14,973.98, together with interest thereon from August
13, 1928. It follows that the judgments of the courts below must be reversed and the cause remanded to the district court with directions to enter judgment for the last
named sum.
Reversed.

GRISWOLD

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS, v. HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 38.

Argued October 19, 20, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

1. Section 402 of the Revenue Act of 1921 provides that, in determining the value of the gross estate of a decedent for the
purpose of the federal estate tax, there shall be included the
value at the time of his death of all property "to the extent of
the interest therein held jointly or as tenants by the entirety by
the decedent and any other person." Held, the inclusion, in the
gross estate of a decedent who died while the provision of this
section was in effect, of one-half the value of property held by
him and his wife as joint tenants, though the tenancy was created
prior to the effective date of the statute, was not a retroactive
application of the statute. P. 58.
2. The cessation at death of decedent's interest in, and control over,
half of property held with another as joint tenants presented a
proper occasion for the imposition of a tax. Guinn v. Commissioner, 287 U.S. 224. P. 58.
62 F. (2d) 591, affirmed.

GRISWOLD v. HELVERING.
Opinion of the Court.

56
CERTIORARI,

289 U.S. 722, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 23 B.T.A.
635, redetermining a deficiency in estate tax.
Mr. Wm.N. Haddadargued the cause, and Mr. Walter
T. Fisher filed a brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs. Sewall Key and Wm.Cutler Thompson
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Section 402 of the Revenue Acd of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat.
227, 277, 278, imposing an inheritance tax, provides,
"Sec. 402. That the value of the gross estate of the
decedent shall be determined by including the value at
the time of his death of all property,.
"(d) To the extent of the interest therein held jointly
or as tenants in the entirety by the decedent and any other
person, ...
The decedent died in 1923; while the foregoing provision
was in effect. At the time of'his death he and his wife
held as joint tenants certain real estate in Illinois, title
to which vested in them by conveyance on October 5,
1909. The commissioner valued this real estate at
$90,000, and included the-whole of it in the value of decedent's gross estate as being within the reach of ยง 402 (d).
Upon appeal to the Board of Tax Appeals, that tribunal,
disapproving in part the commissioner's determination,
held that the value of only decedent's one-half of the
property could be included for the purposes of the tax.
23 B.T.A. 635. The circuit court of appeals affirmed.
62 F. (2d) 591.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the. Court.

290 US.

Whether this application of the statute gives it a retroactive effect is the sole question here involved; and with
that we find no difficulty. Under the statute the death of
decedent is the event in respect of which the tax is laid.
It is the existence of the joint tenancy at that time, and
not its creation at the earlier date, which furnishes the
basis for the tax. By the judgment undcr review, only
half of the value, that is to say, the value of decedent's
interest, has been included, leaving the survivor's interest
unaffected. After the creation of the joint tenancy, and
until his death, decedent retained his interest in, and control over, half of the property. Cessation of that interest
and control at death presented the proper occasion for the
imposition of a tax. See Gwinn v. Commissioner, 287 U.S.
224, and cases cited. And since that is all that is sought
to be reached by the tax here in question, the complaint
that the statute has been given a retroactive application
obviously is without substance. The statute as applied
does not lay a tax in respect of an event already past, but
in respect of one 'yet to happen.
Petitioners insist that Knox v. McElligott, 258 U.S. 546,
is to the contrary, but, clearly, it is not. There the tax
return included the value of decedent's one-half of the
jointly owned property, but did not include the value of
the half which had been owned and enjoyed by the surviving joint tenant. Nevertheless, the commissioner undertook to impose a tax in respect of the value of this
latter half as well. This court held that to do so was to
apply the statute retroactively, and that this, under the
circumstances of that case, could not be done. It did not
hold, or intend to hold, that the statute was retroactive in
so far as the value of the decedent's half of the joint estate
was concerned. That question was not there involved.
It is the only question here.
Judgment affirmed.

