OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus,

290 US.

obtained, and peitioner gave, the bond and obligation on
credit. See Swarts v. Siegel, 117 Fed. 13, 17. Kobusch v.
Hand, 156 Fed. 660, 662. While clause (3) seems aimed
particularly at false pretenses made by borrowers and purchasers to obtain money or goods on credit (Firestone v.
Harvey, 174 Fed. 574, 577), it is not limited to such transactions. Respondent's application for discharge should
have been denied.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. LOUISIANA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 17.

Argued October 13, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

1. Section 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, which empowersthe Commission 'to remove unjust discrimination by intrastate
rates against interstate commerce by prescribing minimum intrastate rates, is to be taken as supplementing § 15a (2), and, so construed, empowers it to raise intrastate rates so that the intrastate
traffic may produce its fair share of the revenue required to meet
maintenance and operating costs and to yield a fair return on the
value of property devoted to the transportation service, both interstate and intrastate. P. 75.
2. In the performance of its duty, under § 15a (2), of providing adequate revenue for groups of carriers, the Commission is not obliged
to undertake the impossible task of finding in advance of the order
raising rates, the reasonableness of each individual rate; it is
enough if, with proper procedure and supported by evidence, it find
that the increases to be allowed, when applied to members of a
group, will generally not exceed reasonable maxima, reserving to all
interested parties the right to secure modification of any particular
rates which, when challenged, may be found to be unjust or unreasonable. P. 75.
3. This same principle applies when intrastate rates are raised, under
§ 13 (4), to the level of interstate rates increased under § 15a (2).
P. 78.
4. Findings of the Commission, read with its reports, held sufficient
as findings that, through failure to contribute such increased

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

70

revenue as would result from increased intrastate rates, the intrastate traffic in question was not bearing its fair share of the burden
of maintaining a national transportation system; and that the
probability that proposed increase of those rates would increase
the revenue was sufficiently great to make the increase a reasonable exercise of sound managerial judgment. P. 80.
5. The fact that increases of interstate rates were permissive only
does not affect the validity of an order under §' 13 (4) for corresponding increases of intrastate rates, which is to remain in effect
only so long as the increases of interstate rates shall be maintained
by the carriers. P. 82.
2 F.Supp. 545, reversed,

APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges setting aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission for increased intrastate rates. See 186 I.C.C.
615; 178 id. 539; 179 id. 215.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs. Elmer B. Collins and Nelson Thomas
were on the brief, for the 'United States and Interstate
Commerce Commission, appellants.
Messrs. J. Blanc Monroe and Harry McCall submitted
for the Texas & New Orleans R. Co. et al., appellants.
Mr. Wylie M. Barrow, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General of Louisiana, with whom Mr. Gaston L. Porterie,
Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of
October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 208, 219, 220, Judicial Code,
§ 238, from a final decree of a District Court, of three
judges, for Eastern Louisiana, which made permanent an
interlocutory decree staying an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. The order directed the removal
of lunjust discrimination against interstate commerce resulting from intrastate rates maintained by rail carriers

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

in Louisiana, by prescribing an increase in intrastate rates
on specified commodities, in amounts equal to increases in
interstate rates on the same commodities, established by
appellant carriers under the authority of an earlier order
of the Commission in the Fifteen Per Cent Case, 1931.
178 I.C.C. 539; 179 I.C.C. 215.
In the Fifteen Per Cent Case the Commission, acting
under §15a (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act, after an
extensive hearing, granted permission to the carriers of
the country to add a surcharge to established rates in
amounts varying with different commodities but not exceeding in any case 10% of the basic rate. Thereupon
the railroads of the country, including those operating in
Louisiana, added the permitted surcharges to their interstate rates and most states authorized like increases in their
intrastate rates. Others failed to increase the intrastate
rates, and the State of Louisiana by its Public Service Commission refused to allow the increase on some thirty-seven
commodities and on all less-than-carload lots. The carriers filed petitions invoking the exercise of the power of
the Commission under § 13 (3) and (4) of the Interstate
Commerce Act to remove undue discrimination by those
intrastate rates against interstate commerce. This proceeding, after an extended investigation and hearings by
the Commission, resulted in the order challenged here.
Increase in Intrastate Rates, 186 I.C.C. 615. It requires
the carriers to charge, upon specified commodities and all
less-than-carload lots in intrastate commerce in Louisiana, "rates which shall be not lower than the rates now
in force and applicable to the intrastate transportation of
said traffic within the State of Louisiana, plus the surcharge authorized by the findings in the Fifteen Per Cent
Case . . . on corresponding interstate traffic, so long as
such surcharges are maintained. . ....

In setting aside the order, the court below rested its
decision upon the inadequacy of the Commission's find-

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

ings. It thought that as the Commission, in the Fifteen
Per Cent Case, 1931, did not find that the several interstate rates resulting from the authorized surcharges would
each be just and reasonable, there was no basis for raising
the intrastate rates under § 13 (3) and (4), see Floridav.
United States, 282 U.S. 194; cf. Georgia Pub. erv.
Comm'n v. United States, 283 U.S. 765, and that the order
could not be supported as a revenue measure because
there were no findings that the increased rates would produce an increase in carrier income. It is also argued here
that the order assailed is invalid because the Commission,
in its earlier order, did not require the carriers to increase
their rates interstate, but only permitted them to do so at
their option.
1. The Transportation Act of 1920, by § 416, 41 Stat.
484, §15a (2) Interstate Commerce Act,' for the first time
laid on the Commission the affirmative duty to establish
rates for interstate rail carriers
" ...so that carriers as a whole (or as a whole in each
of such rate groups or territories as the Commission may
from time to time designate) will, under honest, efficient
and economical management and reasonable expenditures
for maintenance of way, structures and equipment, earn
an aggregate annual net railway operating income equal,
"'Sec. 15a (2). In the exercise of its power to prescribe just and
reasonable rates the Commission shall initiate, modify, establish or
adjust such rates so that carriers as a whole (or as a whole in each
of such rate groups or territories as the Commission may from time
to time designate) will, under honest, efficient and economical management and reasonable expenditures for maintenance of way, structures,
and equipment, earn an aggregate annual net railway operating in-

come equal, as nearly as may be, to a fair return upon the aggregate
value of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in
the service of transportation: Provided, that the Commission shall
have reasonable latitude to modify or adjust any particular rate which
it may find to be unjust or unreasonable, and to prescribe different
rates for different sections of the country,"

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

as nearly as may be, to a fair return upon the aggregate
value of the railway property of such carriers held for and
used in the service of transportation:

. .

See Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. C., B. & Q. R. Co., 257
U.S. 563; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States, 263
U.S. 456; New England Divisions Case, 261 U.S. 184, 189.
Associated provisions calculated to preserve carrier income in the interests of an efficient transportation service
were those empowering the Commission to permit pooling
of traffic and earnings, § 407, § 5 Interstate Commerce
Act, and to fix minimum, as well as maximum rates, § 418,
15 (1) Interstate Commerce Act, to preclude the absorption of traffic of weaker competitors by cut-throat competition. See New England Divisions Case, supra, 190. Under earlier acts the Commission had been given power
to remove unjust discrimination in rates or service between
shippers or localities, § 2 Act of February 4, 1887; 24 Stat.
379, 380; § 3 Intdrstate.Commerce Act; and rates in interstate commerce were required to be reasonable "in the
sense of furnishing compensation for the particular service rendered and the abolition of rebates." Wisconsin
Railroad Cornm'n v. C., B. & Q. R. Co., supra, 585; § 1 Act
of 1887; § 4 Act of 1906; 34 Stat. 589; § 15 Interstate
Commerce Act. Under these acts the Commission had the
power to order the carriers to desist from discrimination
against interstate shippers by intrastate rates, The Shreveport Case, 234 U.S. 342, but until the Transportation Act
it was without authority to prescribe intrastate rates.
By § 416 of the Transportation Act,-§ 13 (4) Interstate
'Commerce Act, directly involved here, the Commission
was given power to remove unjust discrimination by intrastate rates against interstate commerce, by prescribing minimum intrastate rates:.' This Court has consist'Section 13 (4): "Whenever in any investigation the Commission,
after full hearing, finds that any such ratc, fare, charge, classification,
regulation, or practice causes any undue or unreasonable advantage,

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

ently held that this section is to be construed in the light
of § 15a (2) and as supplementing it, so that the forbidden
*discrimination against interstate commerce by intrastate
rates includes those cases in which disparity of the latter
rates operates to thwart the broad purpose of § 15a to
maintain an efficient transportation system by enabling
the carriers to earn a fair return. So construed, § 13 (4)
confers on the Commission the power to raise intrastate
rates so that the intrastate traffic may produce its fair
share of the earnings required to meet maintenance and
operating costs and to yield a fair return on the value of
property devoted to the transportation service, both interstate and intrastate. Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. C., B.
& Q. R. Co., supra, 586, 587, 588, 589, 590; New York v.
United States, 257 U.S. 591, 601; Floridav. United States,
supra, 211; Louisianav. United States, 284 U.S. 125, 131;
see Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Tennessee, 262 U.S.
318.
As pointed out in the reports of the Commission in this
case and others (see Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I.C.C. 220;
New"York Passenger Fares, 59 I.C.C. 290), § 15a, by its
terms, commards the Commission, in providing the required revenue by increasing rates, to deal with the carriers of the nation as a whole or in broad classes, and as
this Court recognized in the New England Divisions Case,
supra, 197, 198, this requirement would be nullified and
the administrative arm of the Commission paralyzed, if
preference, or prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate
commerce on the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce on the
other hand, or any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination
against interstate or foreign commerce, which is hereby forbidden and
declared to be unlawful, it shall prescribe the rate, fare, or charge, or
the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, thereafter to
be charged, and the classification, regulation, or practice thereafter to
be observed, in such manner as, in its judgment, will remove such
advantage, preference, prejudice or discrimination ... " (41 Stat.
456, 484.)

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

instead of adjudicating upon the rates in a large territory
on evidence deemed typical of the whole rate structure, it
were obliged to consider the reasonableness of each individual rate before carrying into effect the necessary increased schedule.
It cannot be supposed that Congress, in placing this
duty on the Commission, intended, in the absence of some
express provision compelling it, that the Commission
should follow a procedure which would preclude its acting effectively, if at all. That such was not its intention
appears from the words of the statute. It does not, in
terms, command the Commission to find that each rate
prescribed under § 15a is just and reasonable, as prerequisite to a general increase in rates. It provides only that
the action of the Commission in raising rates so that they
may yield a fair return is to be "in the exercise of its
power to prescribe just and reasonable rates," with the
qualification, in the proviso to the granted authority to
increase rates, "that the Commission shall have reasonable latitude to modify or adjust any particular rate which
it may find to be unjust or unreasonable. . . ." When
read in the light of the subject matter to which the section is to be applied, the production of increased revenue
by a nation-wide or group increase of rates, it is apparent
that these provisions cannot rightly be construed to require the Commission as a condition of any action by it
to find the reasonableness of each individual rate: If the
Commission were required to do that, there would be no
occasion for the granted latitude to modify those rates
found to be unjust or unreasonable.
The natural construction of the section, one consistent
with its language, and making possible its practical operation, is that which has uniformly been given to it by the
Commission. Section 15a (2) does not relieve the Commission from the'responsibility of seeing to it that the
rates as increased are to be reasonable. But in perform-

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

ing the duty broadly to increase carrier revenue, it is
enough if the Commission, in the first instance, makes
such inquiry and investigation as would enable it to say
that the prescribed increases when applied to members of
the group will generally not exceed a reasonable maximum. The extent of this inquiry and the detail of investigation can not be marked by this Court with certainty. The size of the group dealt with, the nature of
the traffic, the urgency of the relief demanded, these and
other factors should condition the Commission's procedure in each case. But with proper procedure, the ultimate finding that the rates as generally applied are reasonable, supported by evidence and accompanied by suitable reservation of the rights of all interested parties to
secure modification of any particular rate which, when
challenged, is found to be unjust or unreasonable, complies with the statute. The requirement that increase of
rates by Commission action is to be in the exercise of its
power to prescribe reasonable rates is thus observed but
in conformity to the administrative necessities which the
proviso contemplates.
In the Fifteen Per Cent Case, 1931, the Commission,
after a careful survey, found itself faced with an acute
emergency calling for prompt action to give temporary
financial relief to the transportation system. The Commission's report amply discloses that the reasonableness
of the rates as generally applied was a controlling consideration in fixing the varying aimounts of the surcharges
and in selecting the particular items to bear them. This
is manifested in its conclusion that "the freight articles
selected by us in this connection were those for the transportation of which we believed the rates could be somewhat increased without causing the traffic to be transferred to other agencies of transportation and without
bringing about an undue disturbance in business conditions or transgressing the bounds of maximum reasonable

7g

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

rates." It was necessary, under the circumstances, that
the increases take effect without suspension, but this was
done subject to the proviso that "the resulting rates will
in all respects be subject to investigation and determination as to the lawfulness of particular rates or schedule
of rates, as provided by the Act." The Commission's.
action complied with § 15a; see New England Divisions
Case, supra, 197.
In proceeding under § 13 (3) and (4) to make the order,
challenged here, the Commission made no express finding
that the increased intrastate rates would be reasonable,
but incorporated the findings bearing on the reasonableness of the increased interstate rates made in the Fifteen
Per Cent Case, 1931. Although § 13 (4) does not in terms
require the Commission to find that the intrastate rates
which it prescribes are reasonable, it is not questioned
that the section confers no authority on the Commission
to require intrastate rates to be raised above a reasonable
level, see Georgia Pub. Serv. Comm'n v. United States,
supra, 770; Floridav. United States, supra,and the appellees insist that the order is defective because, in conforming the intrastate rates to the reasonable level of interstate
rates, the Commission did not find specifically that in each
case the rate as increased would be just and reasonable.
But we think that the relationship of the section to § 15a
(2), already described, is such that the standard of reasonableness prescribed by the latter is that necessarily set
up for § 13 (4) which supplements it. The considerations
already detailed which define that standard for § 15a
necessarily define it for § 13 (3) and (4), which creates a
duty in "dovetail" relationship to that imposed on the
Commission by § 15a. Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v.
C., B. & Q. R. Co., supra, 386. The administrative difficulties which would preclude performance of the duty
imposed by § 15a if the Commission were required to find
that each individual rate prescribed is just and reasonable,

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

would similarly prevent compliance with that under § 13
(4). Since neither can be performed effectively without
performance of the other, the standard of reasonableness
to which the Commission must conform is necessarily the
same under both, and that implies that under § 13 (4),
as under § 15a (2), reasonable latitude must be given for
modification of particular rates found to be unreasonable.
The case of the Louisiana rates was not alone before the
Commission, and it should not be treated as though it
were. A number of other states, contesting in the aggregate a wide range of rates, were heard at the same time.
Had the Commission been required to go into the circumstances of each item with particularity the purpose of its
original order would have been defeated. It sufficed that
the Commission found that Louisiana showed nothing in
the circumstances of its agriculture and industry or its
traffic conditions so different from the rest of the country
as to lead to the conclusion that the intrastate rates, raised
to the reasonable general interstate level, would not themselves be reasonable; and that it saved the rights of interested parties to test the reasonableness of any individual
rate.
A question different from that before us was presented
in Florida v. United States, supra. There the discrimination was essentially one of undue prejudice against ship..
pers, confined by the evidence to rates prevailing in northern Florida. It involved only one railroad and one commodity. It was not the general revenue proceeding authorized by § 15a. The Court was careful to point out
that the Commission had undertaken to establish a statewide level of intrastate rates without any findings with respect to the corresponding interstate traffic which would
tend to support the conclusion that a state-wide alteration
of intrastate rates was necessary to protect the interstate
commerce involved.

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

2. The objection that the finding of unjust discrimination by the intrastate rates against interstte commerce
is unsupported by any finding that the increased rates
would produce increased revenue is rested upon the statement, separated from its context in the Commission's report, "we conclude that no positive finding in regard to
the revenue outcome of the increases can be justified." It
is manifest that any finding of undue prejudice to interstate commerce, based upon the failure of prevailing intrastate rates to contribute their fair share to the support of
a national transportation system, must necessarily rest
upon a prediction that an increase of the intrastate rates
will result in an increase of revenue, a prediction involving,
especially since 1930, many elements of uncertainty.
There are no formal requirements for the findings to be
made by the Commission in this type of case, see Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U.S. 457, 490, and
while the particular form in which they were cast here is
not to be commended, the report, read as a whole, sufficiently expresses the conclusion of the Commission, based
upon supporting data, including estimates of experienced
railroad traffic men, to which the report refers, that the
probability of increased revenue was sufficiently great to
make the increase of rates a reasonable exercise of sound
managerial judgment. This, we think, meets the requirements of the statute.
In the Fifteen Per Cent Case, 1931, the Commission
had said: "The plan outlined in the appendix we estimate will produce between one hundred .million and one
hundred and twenty-five million dollars' increased revenue on the basis of present traffic, if applied both state
and intrastate." And in the proceeding resulting in the
present order it said: "We find that in view of the surcharges which have become effective interstate, in the
freight rates on the classes and commodities here in
question, under our findings in Fifteen Per Cent Case,

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

1931, supra, respondents' intrastate rates in Louisiana on
the same classes and commodities, to which no corresponding surcharges have been added, have resulted and
will result in unjust discrimination against interstate commerce, except in the case of intrastate rates on sugar
cane." This finding could only mean, when applied to
the question in hand, that the intrastate traffic was not
bearing its fair share of the burden of maintaining a national transportation system, by contributing such increased revenue as would result from an increase in rates.
This the Commission proceeded to point out in detail
when it said further: "It is estimated that, based on the
traffic of 1931, the application of the surcharges on the
excepted commodities would produce additional annual
revenue" in substantial amounts named with respect to
each of the carriers participating in the traffic, and continued, saying: "Railroad traffic men expressed the opinion
that, notwithstanding possible diversion of traffic to other
transportation agencies, the addition of the surcharge to
the intrastate rates would produce an increase in revenue." And as bearing upon the estimated revenue increase the Commission said: "There is nothing of record
which warrants the conclusion that the situation as to
fertilizer, cotton seed, cotton seed products, fresh vegetables, or sweet potatoes is different in Louisiana from
what it is in other parts of the country, or in surrounding
states where surcharges are now. being assessed. Similar
allegations with respect to the possible effect of truck
competition and as to the ability of various commodities
to stand any increase, were made in Ex parte 103 [The
Fifteen Per Cent Case, 1931] and were considered in
reaching our conclusions. Nor is there anything to show
that the movement of sweet potatoes will be adversely
affected by the application of a surcharge thereon without
a similar charge on other potatoes."
Like findings were held sufficient to support similar
orders, which had been entered in this same proceeding,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 US.

when attacked before district courts of three judges in
Montana and Kentucky. Montana v. United States, 2
F.Supp. 448; Kentucky v. United States, 3 F.Supp. 778.
Nor do they differ in any material way from those in
Wisconsin PassengerFares,59 1. C. C. 391, 393, which were
deemed adequately to support the finding of undue prejudice in Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. C., B. & Q. R. Co.,
supra, 580. See also Georgia Commission v. United
States, @upra; Alabama v. United States, 283 U.S. 776;
Louisiana Public Service Comm'n v. Texas & New
Orleans R. Co., 284 U.S. 125.
3. The fact that the order of the Commission for the
increase of interstate rates was permissive only does not
affect the validity of its order prescribing minimum intrastate rates. The interstate rates after the addition of the
authorized surcharges were-lawful rates in interstate commerce, which was discriminated against by the failure to
make corresponding increases in intrastate rates. This discrimination the Commission removed in the manner authorized by § 13 (4), by prescribing minimum intrastate
rates at the same level as the interstate rates. The order
precluded any unauthorized interference with state regulatory power by providing that it should be effective only
so long as the surcharges upon interstate rates should be
Reversed.
maintained by the carriers.
CULLEN FUEL CO., INC., v. W. E. HEDGER, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 9. Argued October 11, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.
1. Rulings of the court below that, under the circumstances of this
case, a contract of charter, orally arranged by an employee of a
corporate owner, was the personal contract of the owner; and
that a bailee of, cargo was entitled to recover for its loss due to a
breach of the warranty of seaworthiness, sustained. P. 88.

