UNITED STATES v. REILY.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. REILY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

Argued October 18, 19, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

The Act of June 21, 1906, provides: "All restrictions as to sale and
incumbrance of all lands, inherited and otherwise, of all adult
Kickapoo Indians, and of all Shawnee" and other named Indians
"who have heretofore been or are now known as Indians of said
tribes, affiliating with said Kickapoo Indians now or hereafter nonresident in the United States, who have been allotted land in Oklahoma or Indian Territory are hereby removed." Then follow provisos that "any such Indian allottee who is a nonresident of the
United States may lease his allotment without restriction for a
period not exceeding five years "; and that the parent or next of
kin having care and custody of a minor allottee may lease his
allotment, etc. Held:
1. The Act does not remove the restriction on alienation from
an allotment during the life of the allottee. P. 38.
2. The qualifying phrase "now or hereafter nonresident in the
United States" applies to the Kickapoos as well as to the other
Indians named. P. 39.
3. Where a direct allottee died a nonresident and the land descende.d to her son, who, though formerly a nonresident, resided at
the time of her death and thereafter in the United States with the
people of his tribe, the restriction on alienation of the inherited
land was not removed by the Act; for at no time did the heir's
nonresidence and his ownership of the land coincide. P. 40.
62 F. (2d) 621, reversed.

289 U.S. 721, to review the affirmance of a
a bill brought by the United States to
dismissing
decree
enjoin the respondent Reily from trespassing upon an
Indian's inherited allotment, and from disturbing lessees
CERTIORARI,

in possession, under color of a deed from the Indian owner,

and from prosecuting the lessees and certain federal administrative officials by certain civil proceedings in a
state court.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Assistant Attorney General Sweeney, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Mr. Pedro Cap6-Rodriguez were
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. F. H. Reily, with whom Mr. Mark Goode was on
the brief, for respondent.
MR.'JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought by the United States to enforce
its rights and regulations in respect of allotted Indian
landheld under a so-called trust patent. The land was
allotted, and the trust patent issued, with the express
restriction that the land should be inalienable for a designated period, which the President might extend, and that
any alienation contrary to the restriction should be absolutely void.' After the allottee's death and during the
period of restriction, as extended by ,he President, the heir
conveyed part of the land to the defendant.
The defendant prevailed in both courts below, 62 F.
(2d) 621, and the United States petitioned for certiorari,
which this court granted.
It is settled, and is conceded, that a restriction on alienation such as is here shown is not personal to the allottee
but runs with the land and operates upon the heir the
same as upon the allottee.' So it is apparent the heir's
conveyance was void, unless in some way the restriction
was removed before the conveyance was made.
The real question is whether the restriction was removed
by Congress by the Act of June 21, 1906,1 which will be
set forth later on.
The material findings of the District Court stand unchallenged and are to the following effect: The allottee, a
'Acts Feb. 8, 1887, c. 119, § 5, 24 Stat. 388; March 3, 1893, c. 203,
Art. IV, 27 Stat. 557.
'Bowling v. United States, 233 U.S. 528, 535; United States
v.
Noble, 237 U.S. 74, 80.
' C. 3504, 34 Stat. 325, 363.

UNITED STATES v. REILY.
33

Opinion of the Court.

Kickapoo Indian woman, and her infant son were members of the Kickapoo tribe of Oklahoma whose lands were
allotted in severalty among its members in. 1894. Both
were then living with the tribe in Oklahoma and each received an allotment from the tribal lands. In 1903 the
mother, taking the son with her, moved into the Republic
of Mexico and established a residence in a Mexican community or tribe of Kickapoos to be described later on.
She continuously maintained that residence and affiliated
with that tribe until 1929, when she died intestate, leaving
the son as her only heir. The son resided in Mexico until
1920 and then gave up that residence and returned to the
Kickapoo Reservation in Oklahoma. Continuously thereafter he made the latter place his residence and home. He
was residing there in 1929 when his mother died, in 1930
when he made the conveyance to the defendant, and in
1931 when this suit was begun.
In turning to the Act of June 21, 1906, it will be helpful
to have in mind the conditions existing when it was enacted. At one time the Kickapoos were a single tribe occupying a treaty reservation in Kansas; I but through dissensions and migrations they had come in 1906 to comprise three separate communities or tribes having distinct
places of abode. One tribe was still located on the old
treaty reservation in Kansas and had been given allotments there.' Another was located in the Republic of
Mexico on a reservation set apart for them by that government. In the main this tribe comprised Kickapoos who
had separated from the Kansas tribe and settled in Mexico, some in 1852 and others in 1863.6 There were also
later accessions as will appear presently. A third tribe
'Treaties of Oct. 24, 1832, 7 Stat. 391; May 18, 1854, 10 Stat. 1078.
'Treaty of June 28, 1862, 13 Stat. 623.
'Handbook of American Indians, Hodge, Vol. 1, pp. 684, 685; Art.
X of Treaty of 1862 just cited; Annual Report of Commissioner of
Indian Affairs 1872, title "Kansas," subtitle "Kickapoos."

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

was located in Oklahoma and chiefly comprised Kickapoos who had left the Mexican tribe and returned to the
United States, mostly in 1873V A reservation in Oklahoma (then the Indian Territory) was established for
them by executive order in 1883.8 The lands in this reservation were allotted among the members of this tribe in
1894,1 the allotment to which this suit relates being one
which was made then. Some of the allottees on this reservation removed to Mexico and established a residence
with the Mexican tribe; and some of the allottees of
neighboring Oklahoma tribes, such as Shawnees, Delawares, Caddos and Wichitas, did likewise. Not infrequently allottees who had gone to the Mexican tribe gave
up their residence there and returned to Oklahoma. The
migration to and from the Mexican tribe, while intermittent, was continuing when the Act of June 21, 1906, was
passed. The part of that act which is material here reads
as follows:
"All restrictions as to sale and incumbrance of all lands,
inherited and otherwise, of all adult Kickapoo Indians,
and of all Shawnee, Delaware, Caddo, and Wichita Indians who have heretofore been or are now known as
Indians of said tribes, affiliating with said Kickapoo Indians now or hereafter nonresident in the United States,
who have been allotted land in Oklahoma or Indian Territory are hereby removed: Provided, That any such Indian allottee who is a nonresident of the United States
may lease his allotment without restriction for a period
not exceeding five years: Provided further, That the
parent or the person next of kin having the care aiid cus-,
tody of a minor allottee may lease the allotment of said
T

Annual Report Commissioner of Indian Affairs 1874, title
"Kansas," subtitle "Kickapoos."
'Kapler Indian Laws and Treaties, 2d ed., Vol. 1, 844; Annual
Report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs 1883, p. 45.
' Act March 3, 1893, c. 203, 27 Stat. 557.

UNITED STATES v. REILY.
33

Opinion of the Court.

minor as herein provided, except that no such lease shall
extend beyond the minority of said allottee."
In any view of the act its words are not happily chosen.
They are wanting in clarity and lend themselves to ambiguity. Both administrative officers and courts have
found need for resorting to interpretation and construction when applying the act.
In Johnson v. United States, 283 Fed. 954, many conveyances--some by original allottees and some by heirs
of such allottees-were assailed by the United States as
made in violation of the restriction on alienation, and the
defendant relied upon the act as having removed the restriction. Because of the varying facts relating to the several
conveyances the act was considered from different
/
angles. The principal question, common to all of the conveyances, was whether the main provision and the two
provisos were inconsistent and mutually destructive. The
District Court had held that they were, and therefore that
the act was ineffective. But the Circuit Court of Appeals
disapproved that view and, after observing that if reasonably possible the act should be so construed that the main
provision and the provisos could stand together, came to
the following conclusion [p. 955]:
"The purview discloses plainly and clearly a legislative,
intention to remove restrictions under -given conditions;
. . . when the whole paragraph is read with a view of sustaining it in all its parts the word 'otherwise,' in the second line, seems to be in contradistinction to allotment, so
that it was clearly intended that all restrictions as to sale
and incumbrance of lands, inherited or otherwise acquired
(except allotments of surviving allottees), were removed
under the conditions named."
In other words, that court construed the main provision removing restrictions under given conditions as not
relating to lands acquired by direct personal allotment but
only to those acquired in other ways, such as inheritance,

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1933
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

devise, etc., and construed the provisos permitting limited
leases as relating only to lands acquired by direct personal allotments. On that basis the court proceeded to
determine whether the facts shown brought any of the
conveyances within the conditions named. As to the conveyances described in eleven out of fifty-four counts the
court found that the lands were inherited and the grantors
were heirs who came within the classes and conditions
fixed in the act. In that connection the court said [p.
956]:
"And the counts each allege that the deceased ancestor
was an absentee Shawnee allottee, a member of the absentee Shawnee tribe of Indians, that the grantor was his
heir and conveyed his inherited interest in his ancestor's
allotment; and the stipulation shows that each grantor
was an absentee Shawnee Indian and had been allotted
lands in his own right. We think it also fairly inferable
from the record that the grantors had been allotted lands
in Oklahoma or Indian Territory, and that they and their
ancestors were affiliated with nonresident Kickapoos."
On these findings the conveyances described in the
eleven counts were held valid and the decree of the District Court as to them was reversed. Of the conveyances
described in the other counts the court briefly 'said that
the facts obtained from the record did not support the
claim of a removal of restrictions, and so the decree of the
District Court cancelling those conveyances was affirmed.
Both parties acquiesce in and place some reliance on
that decision. It is pertinent in so far as it holds that the
Act of 1906 did not remove the restriction on alienation
from an allotment during the life of the allottee. Under
that holding, with which we are in accord, the allotment
in question remained subject to the restriction throughout the life of the mother, the original allottee.
On other points the facts in the Johnson case and those
in this are not alike. In that case none of the heir-

UNITED STATES v. REILY.
33

Opinion of the Court.

grantors was a Kickapoo. All were absentee Shawnees
affiliated with the Kickapoos in Mexico. Here the heirgrantor was a Kickapoo permanently residing with the
Kickapoos in Oklahoma when he inherited from his
mother and continuously thereafter.
The defendant insists that the Act of 1906 makes a distinction between Kickapoos and Shawnees, etc., in that it
removes the restriction on alienation as to the former
regardless of their residence and as to the latter only
where they reside outside the United States. No reason
for making such a distinction is suggested; nor is any perceived by us. The relation of all these Indians to the
United States was the same. All were emerging from the
old Indian life-the Kickapoos not in advance of the
others. Some of each of the designated tribes had migrated to Mexico and others of each were inclined to do
so. It was this migration, accomplished and prospective,
which led to the act. In short, the circumstances were
such as to suggest that a line of distinction be drawn at
residence in or out of the United States and not at membership in one or another of the designated tribes. This
we think is what was intended. Although inartificially
framed, the act taken as a whole comports with this view
quite as well if not better than with the other, and due
regard for the status and interests of the Indians affected,
which always are to be considered in construing such
laws,1" requires that it be preferred and given effect.
Therefore we conclude that the qualifying phrase " now or
hereafter nonresident of the United States " applies to the
Kickapoos as well as to the Shawnees, etc.
In United States v. Estill, 62 F. (2d) 620, the Circuit
Court of Appeals applied the act as we construe it. That
suit involved a conveyance by heirs of a Kickapoo who
°Jones v. Meehan, 175 U.S. 1, 10-11; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185
U.S. 373, 402; United States v. Celestine, 215 U.S. 278, 290; Choate v.
Trapp, 224 U.S. 665, 675; Carpenter v. Shaw, 280 U.S. 363, 367.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

had received an allotment in the Oklahoma reservation
in 1894 and had died in Mexico in 1905. The heirs were
Kickapoos who had received allotments in the same reser-

vation in their own right. The court deemed their residence material and gave the matter particular attention.
It said: "The lower court also found, and the proof sustains it, that I-nesh-kin and Nah-she-pe-eth [the heirs]
' were adults and residing in the Republic of Mexico on
the twenty-first day of June, 1906, and thereafter.' " The
conveyance was made on a later date. Thus the heirs'
inherited ownership and their residence in Mexico coincided before -the conveyance was made. On the facts
recited the court ruled that the case came within the act,
and accordingly sustained the conveyance.
That court disposed of the present case in the belief
that its facts "are not substantially different from the
facts in United States v. Estill." Whether this belief was
occasioned by gome inadvertence does not appear. But
the real fact shown by the evidence, found by the District
Court, and not questioned by the defendant, is that the
son, although at an earlier time a resident of Mexico,
became an actual resident of the Kickapoo reservation in
Oklahoma in 1920, and resided there continuously thereafter. The mother, the allottee, died in 1929. Then,
and not before, the son became her heir and inherited the
land. At no time with him did ownership of the land and
nonresidence in the United States coincide. That he had
been a nonresident for several years ending nine years
before the mother died is not material. During that
period he had no right in the land and the restriction was
of no concern to him. When later on he inherited the
land, nonresidence, the chief condition on which the act
made removal of the restriction to depend, was wanting.
He was then and thereafter an Indian, resident in the
United States among the people of his tribe, and holding
the land under the restricted trust patent given to his

NATHANSON v. UNITED STATES.
33

Argument for Petitioner.

mother. In our opinion such a situation was not within
but outside the act, and the heir's conveyance to the
defendant was void.
Apparently the act has been a source of much trouble,"
and recently it has been repealed, but with saving clauses
protecting rights lawfully acquired under it.12
Decree reversed.
NATHANSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO .THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 39. Argued October 9, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.
1. Under the Fourth Amendment, an officer may not properly issue
a warrant to search a private dwelling unless he can find probable
cause therefor from facts or circumstances presented to him under
oath or affirmation. Mere affirmance of belief or suspition is not
enough. P. 46.
2. This principle applies to searches for goods imported in fraud of
the tariff law as well as to other cases. P. 47.
63 F. (2d) 937, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 720, to review the affirmance of
a sentence in a prosecution under the National Prohibition Act for unlawful possession of intoxicating liquors.
The trial court had refused to exclude evidence for the
Government obtained by searching a private dwelling
under color of a search warrant.

Mr. Frederic M. P. Pearse for petitioner.
The warrant was void. The affidavit contained no
facts on which to base a finding of probable cause. In
"Annual Reports Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1906, title "Kickapoos "; 1911, title "Mexican Kickapoo Indians "; Senate Reports,
Vol. A, No. 5, 60 Cong., 1st Sess.; Senate Report No. 710, 72 Cong..,
1st Sess.; House Report No. 1901, 72 Cong., 2d Ses.
"Act February 17, 1933, c. 97, 47 Stat. 819.

