FED. LAND BANK v. GAINES.
240

Syllabus.

detriment 'to defendants. The amounts of the bonds required in lieu of injunctions attest the importance of the
advantage obtained by use of the decree. While it is not
found, as reasonably it may be inferred from the circumstances, that from the beginning it was plaintiff's intention through suppression of Clutter's evidence to obtain
decree in the Byers case for use in subsequent infringement suits against these defendants and others, it does
clearly appear that the plaintiff made the Byers case a
part of its preparation in these suits. The use actually
made of that decree is sufficient to show that plaintiff did
not come with clean hands in respect of any cause of
action in these cases.
The relation between the device covered by the first
Downie patent and those covered by the other patents,
taken in connection with the use to which plaintiff put
the Byers decree, is amply sufficient to bring these cases
within the maxim. Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Pet. 291, 297.
Clarke v. White, 12 Pet. 178, 193. Carringtonv. The Ann
Pratt, 18 How. 63, 67. Kitchen v. Rayburn, 19 Wall. 254,
263.
Decrees affirmed.
FEDERAL LAND BANK OF COLUMBIA, SOUTH
qAROLINA, v. GAINES.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 112.

Argued November 16, 17, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.

1. A National Farm Loan Association, composed of borrowers under
the Federal Farm Loan Act, though in a general sense it is a
public agency or instrumentality for carrying out the policy of
the statute, does not act as the agent of the lending Federal Land
Bank after money transmitted through the Association to the borrower has passed from the control of the Land Bank. P. 254.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

290 U.S.

2. A borrower, by his application and by endorsing the check sent by
the lending Land Bank to pay a loan, consents to the procedure
prescribed by the Act, whereby the Association shall be a coobligor with the borrower and the money borrowed shall be sent
by the Land Bank to the Association, and the Association shall
have control over the disbursement of the proceeds of the check
for the agreed purposes of the loan. There is no inconsistency
with the purposes sought by the Farm Loan Act in placing upon
the borrower instead of the lending bank the risk of insolvency of
a depository bank in which the Association places the proceeds
of the check pending their disbursement. P. 254.
3. This conclusion is fortified by the fact that the Act contemplates
that lending banks shall use the mortgages, given by borrowers, as
collateral for Land Bank bonds, and that such use would be impaired if the risk were upon the lending bank during the long
period that may elapse between the time the proceeds of a loan
pass from the control of the Land Bank and the time they are
actually disbursed by the Association to the use of the borrower.
P. 255.
4. There is no failure of consideration for a borrower's mortgage
when, pursuant to the scheme of the Act, a Land Bank has sent a
check made payable to the borrower and a Farm Loan Association, when the check has been endorsed by the borrower and
delivered to the Association for disbursement of the proceeds, and
when the proceeds are lost through the insolvency of a bank in
which they had been deposited by the Association pending disbursement. P. 256.
204 N.C. 278; 167 S.E. 856, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review the affirmance of a decree canceling a mortgage for failure of consideration. This relief was conditioned upon prior repayment of a small
sum that had been advanced to defray taxes on the land.
It was a " controversy without action," submitted to the
trial court upon an agreed statement of facts.

Mr. Peyton R. Evans, with whom Messrs. I. M. Bailey,
Harry D. Reed, and J. S. Massenburg, and Miss May T.

Bigelow were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. M. R. McCown for respondent.
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

FED. LAND BANK v. GAINES.
247

Opinion .of the Court.

By leave of Court, Mr. Irving P. Whitehead filed a
brief as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought by respondent in the Superior
Court for Polk County, North Carolina, to cancel a mortgage, given by her to petitioner, as invalid for want of
consideration. It presents a question of the construction
of the Federal Farm Loan Act of July 17, 1916, c. 245,
39 Stat. 360, which was raised and decided upon an agreed
statement of facts. Judgment for respondent was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, 204 N.C. 278; 167
S.E. 856. The case comes here on certiorari.
On August 16, 1930, respondent applied to petitioner,
through the Columbus Farm Loan Association, for a loan
secured by mortgage upon her land, located in Polk
County. The loan was approved by the Loan Association
on October 1, 1930, and on that day respondent was admitted to membership in the Association. In due course
she executed a promissory note to petitioner, secured by
mortgage upon her land, both of which she delivered to
petitioner as required by the provisions of the Federal
Farm Loan Act. The note, as the statute commands, bore
endorsement of the agreement of the Association to be
liable upon it. Petitioner's check for the amount of the
loan, less authorized charges, made payable jointly to
the Secretary-Treasurer of the Association and respondent, was delivered by petitioner to attorneys of the respondent together with a "closed loan statement." This
statement was a detailed report of the loan transaction,
including data of the disbursement of its proceeds and of
fees charged by the Association to the borrower. The
Secretary-Treasurer was to fill out the statement after
the loan transaction was completed, procure the borrower's signature to it and return it to the bank. These
documents were delivered by the attorneys to the Secretary-Treasurer, who, after the check was duly endorsed

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

by the payees, deposited it in a bank to the credit of the
Association. At the time of the endorsement and before,
respondent understood that the check was to be so deposited and the proceeds after collection were to be disbursed by the Association for the purposes for which the
loan was procured. The bank, immediately after collection of the check, closed its doors, and the proceeds of
the collection, with an exception not now material, have
not become available either to the Association or the
respondent.
The Supreme Court of North Carolina, construing the
provisions of the Federal Farm Loan Act, concluded that
the Association, organized under its provisions as an intermediary between the borrower and the petitioner, acted as
a "public agent," and that the receipt by it and the deposit of the check for collection and credit, though it was
first endorsed by respondent, was not a receipt of the loan
by the borrower or in her behalf such as to establish
liability of respondent upon her note.
The Federal Farm Loan Act was adopted in response to
a national demand that the federal government should
set up a rural credit system by which credit, not adequately provided by commercial banks, should be extended
to those engaged in agriculture, upon the security of farm
mortgages. The report of the Senate Committee which
drafted the bill enacted as the Federal Farm Loan Act,
Report of Senate Committee on Banking and Currency,
No. 144, 46th Cong., 1st Sess., emphasizes as features of
the proposed national rural credit system the creation of
regional federal land banks under control of the Farm Loan
Board. The banks were to make loans to farmers, upon
the security of farm mortgages, with funds obtained in
large part by the sale to investors of long term bonds.
See also Report of House Committee on Banking and Currency, No. 630, 64th Cong. 1st Sess. To adapt the system
to local needs and to promote co6peration among bor-

FED. LAND BANK v. GAINES.
247

Opinion of the Court.

rowers, it was proposed that the loans should be made
through local associations controlled by their membership,
composed exclusively of borrowers.
These proposals were carried out in the Federal Farm
Loan Act by providing for the creation of twelve regional
federal land banks, § 4; 12 U.S.C., §§ 671, 683, of which
petitioner is one, all under the direction and control of the
Federal Farm Loan Board.' § 3; 12 U.S.C., §§ 651, 652.
Each has authority to lend money on the security of mortgages on farms within its own district. § 13; 12 U.S.C.,
§ 781. The banks are authorized to issue farm loan bonds
secured by mortgages taken as security for loans. They
are without authority to make loans " except through National Farm Loan Associations," organized as provided by
other sections of the Act, § 14; 12 U.S.C., § 791,2 or by
agents, which are banking institutions organized under
state laws. § 15; 12 U.S.C., § 803. They may make loans
only for specified agricultural purposes, including the payment of existing loans upon the security of farm lands or
the purchase of farm lands or equipment for them or their
improvement. § 12, Par. Fourth; 12 U.S.C. § 771. Loans
are made on written applications which are required to
The Farm Loan Board consisted of the Secretary of the Treasury
and six members, appointed by the President, § 3; 12 U.S.C., § 652.
After the entry of the final judgment in this cause, the Federal Farm
Loan Board was abolished and its functions were transferred to the
Farm Loan Commissioner, subject to the jurisdiction and control of
the Farm Credit Administration, by Executive Order of the President,
No. 6084 of March 27, 1933; the name of the officer of the Farm
Loan Commissioner was afterward changed to that of Land Bank
Commissioner, by Act of June 16, 1933, Session Laws, First Session
1933, 273.
'By Act of March 4, 19?3, Session Laws, Second Session, 1932, 1933,
pp. 1547, 1548, after the loan transaction in the present case, this sec-

tion was amended so as to permit loans to be made either through
National Farm Loan Associations or direct to borrowers, as provided
in § 7. § 7 was also amended so as to provide for direct loans in
localities where no Farm Loan Associations have been organized.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

designate the purpose for which the loan is to be used and
the borrower is required to agree that the loan shall be
used for those purposes. § 12, Par. Eighth; 12 U.S.C.,
§ 771.
National farm loan associations are local associations,
organized under charters granted by the Federal Loan
Board, § 7; 12 U.S.C., §§ 711, 719. Their membership
is restricted to those who are borrowers from federal land
banks. They are controlled by boards of directors elected
by their members, who, with the exception of the Secretary-Treasurer, the chief executive officer of the association, serve without compensation. §§ 7, 8; 12 U.S.C.,
§§ 712, 713, 733. They are also authorized to charge fees
to borrowers, limited in amount, § 11; 12 U.S.C., § 761,
" to endorse and thereby become liable for the payment
of mortgages taken from its shareholders by the Federal
Land Bank of its district," § 11; 12 U.S.C., § 761, and to
receive from the federal land bank "funds advanced" by
the land bank and to deliver them to its members on
receipt of first mortgages. §§ 7, 11; 12 U.S.C., §§ 720,
761. By § 14; 12 U.S.C., § 714, the Secretary-Treasurer
is the custodian of the funds of the association, which are
required to be deposited in a bank designated by the
board of directors. He is required to "assure himself"
that the loans made through the National Farm Loan
Association of which he is a member are applied to the
purposes set forth in the application of the borrower,"
to pay over to borrowers all sums "received for their account from the Federal Land Bank upon first mortgage,"
and acting under the direction of the association "to collect, receipt for and transmit to the Federal Land Bank
payments of interest, amortization, installments' or principal arising out of loans made through the Association,"
and to report to the land bank of the district any failure
of the borrower to comply with the terms of the application or mortgage, and any delinquent taxes on land mort-

FED. LAND BANK v. GAINES.
247

253

Opinion of the Court.

gaged to the bank. Expenses of the Secretary-Treasurer
are payable from the funds of the association, and if such
funds are not available, by levy of assessment on the
members. § 7; 12 U.S.C., § 715.
Borrowers from federal land banks through national
farm loan associations are required to subscribe and pay
for shares of stock in the association to an amount equal
to 5% of the face of the loan, which stock is to be paid
off at par and retired upon full payment of the loan.
§ 8; 12 U.S.C., § 733. The cost of these shares may be
included in the loan. § 9; 12 U.S.C., § 742. The association in turn is required "whenever" it "shall desire to
secure for any member a loan on first mortgage from the
Federal Land Bank of its District" to subscribe and pay
for capital stock of the lending federal land bank in
like amount, and similarly this stock is to be retired upon
payment of the mortgage loan. § 7; 12 U.S.C., § 721.
In the present loan transaction, carried out in strict
conformity with the statute, it was plainly contemplated
that petitioner was to be the lender, and as lender it was
to become the owner of the note and the mortgage, in
which it was named, respectively, as payee and mortgagee.
Respondent, as maker of the note, and the Association,
by its endorsement agreeing to be liable for its payment,
were both to be obligated to pay the loan. As between
the two, the Association was in the position of a surety
or guarantor, entitled to be exonerated by the mortgage
security and protected to some extent by the 5% stock
subscription exacted of respondent. If the transaction
were unaffected by the provisions of the Farm Loan Act,
it would require no argument or citation of authority
to support the conclusion that the delivery of the note
and mortgage to the lender, and the receipt of the check
from the lender, payable to the obligors upon the mortgage indebtedness, and their endorsement and the collection of it, would establish their liability for the pay-

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

ment of the loan, regardless of what might become of the
proceeds.
The state court rested its decision on the characterization of the Association as a public agent, but it did not
hold that the Association was in any sense an agent for
the lender bank. It could not well have done so, for neither the provisions of the Farm Loan Act nor the particular circumstances which attended the loan in the present
case gave to the petitioner any right of control over the
Association or any power to recall the check or its proceeds after its delivery and collection. The Association
was controlled by directors, elected by its own members,
who, like the respondent, were borrowers. After the check
was delivered to the Association it passed completely from
the control of the lender and into the exclusive control
of the payees, who were the obligors of the mortgage
indebtedness.
It is true that both the petitioner and the Association
were, in a broad and general sense, public agencies or
instrumentalities to carry out a policy of the governnent-the extension of credit to those engaged in agriculture to be availed of in the furtherance of agricultural
undertakings. But those purposes could only be achieved
through loans made to private individuals. The borrower
is under no legal compulsion to borrow. If he takes the
benefit of the privilege extended by the statute he can
do so only in compliance with its requirement that he
shall join, with himself as obligor, the local co~perative
association of which he is a member. This supplies a
strong incentive on the part of the associations to perform the duties commanded by the statute looking to
the safety and security of the loan and, as agreed by the
borrower and required by the statute, its disbursement for
the purposes for which it is made. By applying for the
loan and delivering to the lender her mortgage and note,
endorsed by the Association, in compliance with the Act,

FED. LAND BANK v. GAINES.
247

Opinion of the Court.

respondent consented in advance to the procedure for
creating and disbursing the loan which the statute prescribes. She renewed that consent when her endorsement
of the check was made, with full knowledge that the Association, her co-obligor, was to deposit the check to its
credit and disburse the proceeds for the purposes for
which the loan was made. This consent could not be
affected by the closed loan statement which it was intended she should later sign. The statement was to be
merely a confirmation or report of what had gone before.
The endorsement of the check was the crucial act, for
it drew the funds from the control of the petitioner and
dedicated them irrevocably to the purposes for which
the loan had been secured.
We can perceive no inconsistency between the public
ends to be effected and the purpose plainly exhibited by
the statute and the conduct of the parties that they should
occupy the position of co-obligors upon the loan indebtedness, with the mutual understanding that one of them,
the Association, was to disburse the proceeds of the loan
for purposes agreed upon. And we can discern no difference between the legal consequence of their acts and that
which would have ensued had respondent consented that
the loan be received and disbursed by any third person
who afterward had lost the money, or if she had, herself,
taken the endorsed check and deposited it to her credit in
the insolvent bank. If we thought this conclusion more
doubtful, we should regard as persuasive the fact that a
different conclusion would break down the scheme of the
Act to make the mortgages taken by the federal land banks
available as collateral for federal land bank bonds sold to
investors. Its operation would be seriously impaired if
such use of the mortgages taken must await the long
period which may often elapse after the lending bank has
paid out its money, and before the disbursement of it is
completed by the local association.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 Us.

We conclude that there was no failure of consideration
for the mortgage and that the judgment of the state court
must be

Reversed.
ALASKA STEAMSHIP CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 56. Argued November 15, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.
1. The provision of Rev. Stat., § 4578, for compensating vessel
owners who bring home destitute seamen, though in terms applicable only where the transportation is by agreement with a consular officer and under his certificate, applies, by long administrative and legislative construction, to transportation from Alaska
(where there are no consular officers) upon agreements and certificates of the local collector or deputy collector of customs. P. 259.
2. Courts are slow to disturb the settled administrative construction
of a statute long and consistently adhered to, especially where the
declared will of the legislative body could not be carried out without the construction adopted. P. 262.
3. The administrative construction must be accepted in the present
case, since it has received congressional approval, implicit in the
annual appropriations over a perioa of thirty-five years, the expenditure of which was effected by resort to the administrative
practice, and in amendments by Congress to the statutes relating
to transportation of destitute seamen without modification of that
practice. P. 262.
4. Under the Acts of Congress, the duty of providing transportation
for shipwrecked mariners rests upon the Government; it is not a
duty incumbent upon the owner of the shipwrecked vessel, and he
is entitled to the statutory compensation for this service. P. 262.
5. The practice that aids as an administrative construction is the practice of the Department charged with carrying out the statute, in
this case the practice of the Department of Commerce. P. 264.
6. Rulings of the Comptroller General resting upon a -proposition
plainly contrary to law and in conflict with the unambiguou statute in question, are without weight as administrative constructions. P. 264.
63 F. (2d) 398, reversed.

