KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. DIMON S.S. CORP 117
Counsel for Parties.

KRAUSS BROS. LUMBER CO. v. DIMON STEAMSHIP CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 4.

Argued October 10, 11, 1933.-Decided November 13, 1933.

1. There is a duty on a ship, arising out of the contract of affreightment, not only to carry the cargo and deliver it safely but also
to charge no more as freight than the contract allows. P. 121.
2. When excessive freight is collected at time of delivery, under circumstances such that the owner is bound to repay it, there is a
maritime lien on the ship, in favor of cargo, for the amount of
overpayment. Id.
3. The fact that neither party knew, at time of payment, thbt the
freight demanded was excessive, does not affect the existence of
the lien. P. 125.
4. Neither is the lien affected by the consideration that the dempnd
for excess freight paid by mistake would be at common law for
money had and received; admiralty is not concerned with the
form but with the substance of the demand which is founded on
the breach of the contract of affreightment. P. 124.
5. The principle that maritime liens, being secret, are stricti juris
and not to be extended by implication does not mean that the
right to the lien is not to be recognized and upheld, when within
accepted supporting principles, merely because the circumstances,
which call for its recognition are unusual or infrequent. P. 125.
6. The principle of mutuality between ship and cargo applies to
their obligations under the contract of affreightment, not to the
liens that result from breach of those obligations. P. 125.
61 F. (2d) 187, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 716, to review the affirmance of
a decree of a District Court, 53 F. (2d) 492, dismissing a
libel in rem.
Mr. Lane Summers, with whom Messrs. W. H. Hayden
and F. T. Merritt were on the brief, for petitioner.

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

-290 US

Mr. Claude E. Wakefield, with whom Mr. Cassitw E.
Gates was on the brief, for respondent.
After a cargo is loaded and reciprocal rights betweeri
the ship and cargo exist, the obligation of the ship is for
proper stowage, care and handling of the cargo and delivery of the same at the time and place designated in the
contract of affreightment. The obligation of the cargo
is to pay freight. All of this was fully accomplished in
this case. It has been said that the obligation to which
the ship is hypothecated extends to a "right delivery of
cargo." The use of the word "obligation " does not refer
to a point of time, but to the fulfillment of those things
which the ship is obliged to do. This is referred to in
some decisions as the "act of transportation," and when,
as in this case, the act of transportation is fulfilled as to
all obligations coming thereunder, no lien exists against
the vessel on account of matters occurring outside the,
scope of such undertaking.
A test to be applied in each case is the nature of the
proof necessary to sustain the libel. If the proof be that
the ship or its master failed in some obligation to the
cargo in respect of the act of transportation, then a lien
exists for such breach. If, on the other hand, the proof
be that the owner failed in some respects oi, as in the case
now before the court, that a third party did an act which
gives rise to the claim, no lien exists. In the present
case the proof at the time of trial would necessarily be
that another intercoastal carrier carried similar cargo at
$8.50 per M feet. This is the very basis of libelant's
cause of action. It has no relation to the respondent S.S.
Pacific Cedar or any undertaking to which the vessel was
hypothecated. The fact that the agreement for a rebate
is contained in a contract of affreightment is immaterial,
as a lien is not necessarily the normal result of all breaches
of such contract.

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. DIMON S.S. CORP. 119
117

Argument for Respondent.

The frequently stated doctrine that the ship' is bound to
the cargo, and the cargo to the ship, and that a maritime
lien must be mutual and reciprocal, is a mere formula for
arriving at the result in each case. It illustrates the fact
that the undertaking of the ship to perform the act of
transportation is a separate obligation. This undertaking
ig usually set forth in a bill of lading which defines the
respective obligations of the parties. These obligations
as set forth then become the act of transportation to the
performance of which the vessel is hypothecated.
The right of lien, being a privilege and secret, must be
connected with some visible occurrence related to the ship
or cargo, or must be connected with the obligation of the
ship itself in respect to the act of transportation which
arises by implication of law; it is not necessarily extended to all obligations of the contract of affreightment.
These liens are of strict right and are not to be extended
to situations not well defined in the law. The conclusion
therefore is patent that the mere fact that the provision
for a rebate on contingency in the present case is contained in the contract does not give rise to a maritime lien to recover the rebate when it is not alleged that
the ship wrongfully exacted the higher rate, or that the
allowance of the rebate was related to the act of transportation. No facts appear from which it can be inferred
that the agreement for an allowance of rebate was part
of the -act of transportation. If the lien is not to be
extended, because it is secret and operates to the prejudice of innocent parties dealing with the vessel, there is
here a case where not even the owner at the time of
receiving payment is alleged to have knowledge of the facts
upon which the petitioner now claims recovery; nor was
there a visible occurrence relating to the ship and cargo.
All parties considered the transportation performed and
terminated by payment and delivery. It can not now

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

be said that discovery of a mistake in making overpayment can be asserted by a maritime lien. The action is
for money had and received. The respondent has received money to which it is alleged it is not now entitled.
And why? Because another intercoastal carrier carried
at a lower rate, not because the vessel failed in any respect
in its obligation to the cargo. The case seems clear.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This suit in admiralty was brought by petitioner in the
District Court for Western Washington against respondent, the steamship " Pacific Cedar," and its owner, the
respondent Dimon Steamship Corporation, to recover an
alleged overpayment of freight and to establish a lien on
the vessel for the amount of the overpayment. The libel
alleges a contract by petitioner with the owner, by which
the latter agreed to receive for loading on the "Pacific
Cedar," on or about January 18, 1930, at named Pacific
Coast ports, a quantity of lumber, and to transport it to
Philadelphia and New York at the rate of $10.00 per
thousand feet, but with a provision that in the event "a
regular intercoastal carrier moves similar cargo at a lower
rate," such lower rate should be applied. The libel makes
no reference to any bill of lading but sets up that the
lumber was shipped and transported, and between March
1st and 20th was delivered, all under the provigions of
the contract, and that at the conclusion of the voyage
and while the vessel was discharging her cargo, respondents, at destination, demanded and received payment of
freight at the $10.00 rate, although in January, 1930, a
regular intercoastal carrier had carried a similar cargo
from Seattle to Baltimore at $8.50 per thousand feet.
The lien asserted is for the difference between the
freight paid and the freight earned at the agreed lower
rate. Upon exceptions the District Court dismissed the
libel for want of admiralty jurisdiction. 53 F. (2d) 492.

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. DIMON S.S. CORP. 121
117

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the
decree dismissing the libel in personam, but affirmed so
much of it as dismissed the libel in rem. 61 F. (2d) 187.
This Court granted certiorari on petition of the libellant
alone, 289 U.S. 716, to resolve an alleged conflict between
the decision below and that of the Coiurt of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit in The Oregon, 55 Fed. 666, 676.
The only question presented here is whether the
petitioner is entitled to a lien on the vessel for the
overpaid freight.
While there has been a lack of unanimity in the decisions as to the precise limits of the lien in favor of the
cargo, see Osaka Shosen Kaisha v. Pacific Export Lumber
Co., 260 U.S. 490, the cases are agreed that the right to
the lien has its source in the contract of affreightment and
that the lien itself is justified as a means by which the
vessel, treated as a personality or as impliedly hypothecated to secure the performance of the contract, is made
answerable for nonperformance. See The Freeman, 18
How. 182, 188; Vandewater v. Mills, 19 How. 82, 90;
Osaka Shosen Kaishav. PacificExport Lumber Co., supra;
The Flash, 1 Abb. Adm. 67; The Rebecca, 1 Ware 187;
Scott v. The Ira Chaffee, 2 Fed. 401. This engagement
of the vessel, or its hypothecation, as distinguished from
the personal obligation of the owner, does not ensue upon
the mere execution of the contract for transportation.
Only upon the lading of the vessel, or at least when she
is ready to receive the cargo-where there is "union of
ship and cargo "--does the contract become the contract
of the vessel and the right to the lien attach. No lien for
breach of the contract to carry results from failure of
the vessel to receive and load the cargo or a part of it.
See Osaka Shosen Kaisha v. Pacific Export Lumber Co.,
supra.
It is not questioned here that the union of ship and
cargo, once established, gives rise to the right of the vessel
to -a lien on the catgo for the freight money and of the

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

cargo on the vessel for failure to carry safely and deliver
rightly. The breach now alleged is only that the freight
demanded on discharge of the cargo was in excess of that
stipulated by the contract, and respondent insists that the
liens in favor of cargo growing out of the contract of
affreightment are restricted to those claims founded on
breach of the obligation to carry and deliver. But the
undertaking to charge the agreed freight and no more is
an inseparable incident to every contract of affreightment, as essential to it and as properly a subject of
admiralty jurisdiction as is the obligation of the cargo to
pay freight when earned, or of the vessel to carry safely.
See Matson Navigation Co. v. United States, 284 U.S.
352, 358. It is unlike an agreement to pay a commission
to the broker procuring the charter party, Brown v. West
Hartlepool Steam Navigation Co., 112 Fed. 1018, or a
provision for storing cargo in the vessel at the end of the
voyage, Pillsbury Flour Mills Co. v. Interlake Steamship
Co., 40 F. (2d) 439, which, though embodied in the contract of carriage for hire, are no necessary part of it.
It is not denied, and the cases hold, that there is a lien
for excessive freight knowingly exacted as a condition of
delivery of the cargo, The John Francis, 184 Fed. 746;
The Ada, 233 Fed. 325; The Muskegon, 10 F. (2d) 817;
Tatsuuma Kisen Kabushiki Kaisha v. Robert Dollar Co.,
31 F. (2d) 401; cf. The Oregon, 55 Fed. 666, 677; but it
is argued that in that case the generating source of the
right is the failure to perform the transportation contract
by refusal to deliver the cargo. The fact that the breach
of one term of the contract, the agreement to charge
only the stipulated freight, coincides with the breach of
another, to make delivery, does not obscure the fact that
both terms are broken, and that the substance of the right
to recover is for the freight collected in excess of that
agreed upon, not damages for failure to make delivery.
Nor does the fact that there is breach of both afford any

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. DIMON S.S. CORP. 123
117

Opinion of the Court.

basis for saying that the breach of either term alone could
not give rise to the lien. This becomes more apparent
upon examination of the numerous cases in which a lien
has been imposed for some breach of the freight term.'
In The Oregon, supra, the time charterer sold the tonnage of the vessel for a single voyage at a rate in advance
of that stipulated in the charter party. Her captain
collected the freight at the agreed higher rate and retained
it. The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, Judge
Taft writifig, the opinion, sustained the jurisdiction in rem
to recover the excess on the ground that its collection
was incidental to the execution of the maritime contract,
and to be treated as an overpayment of freight. This
1

Lien for freight paid in advance but not earned under the terms
of the contract of affreightment: The Harriman, 9 Wall. 161; The
Panama, 18 Fed. Cas., No. 10703; cf. The A. M. Bliss, 1 Fed. Cas.,
No. 274; Church v. Shelton, 5 Fed. Cas., No. 2714. (See also Allanwilde Transportation Corp. v. Vacuum Oil Co., 248 U.S. 377, and
InternationalPaper Co. v. The Gracie D. Chambers, 248 U.S. 387,
where the lien was denied because the freight was held to have been
earned.) Lien for charges or purchase price of the cargo, collected
by the master from the consignee for account of the shipper as provided in the contract of affreightment: The Hardy, 11 Fed. Cas.,
No. 6056; The St. Joseph, 21 Fed. Cas., No. 12230; Zollinger v. The
Emma, 30 Fed. Cas., No. 18218; cf. The New Hampshire, 21 Fed.
924; Krohn v. The Julia, 37 Fed. 369. Lien in favor of the charterer
for freight earned in violation of the charter party by the ship
manned and officered by the owner; The Port Adelaide, 59 Fed. 174.
Lien for freight overpaid, as dead freight for shortage of cargo,
wrongfully exicted by threat of attachment of the cargo actually
shipped and delivered according to the contract: The Lake Eckhart, 31 F. (2d) 804. Lien for salvage, payment of which by the
cargo was fraudulently procured by the master, who had wilfully
stranded the vessel: Church v. Shelton, supra. Lien for the excess
of a deposit by the cargo owner in a general average fund, .the right
of recovery being founded on the master's duty, and hence the
ship's, to make the general average adjustment: The Emilia S. de
Perez, 22 F. (2d) 585.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court

290 U.S.

conclusion is obviously inconsistent with the view that the
affreightment lien in favor of the cargo is dependent on
the failure of the vessel to carry and deliver. The right
to a lien for the mistaken overpayment of freight was
involved in The Oceano, 148 Fed. 131, where the charterer
advanced charter freight to provide a fund for the vessel's
disbursements, under stipulation that the advance should
be deducted from the freight earned under the charter
party. Upon settlement at the port of destination the
libellant's agent, by mistake, deducted less than the
advances made. The court, Judge Hough writing the
opinion, held, treating the settlement as an overpayment
of the charter freight, that the cause was one of affreightment and that a lien attached to the vessel for the amount
of the overpayment.
It was argued to us, as it has been in other cases, that,
as the payment for excess freight was made under mistake,
the demand is upon a cause of action for money had and
received, which lies only at common law and not in admiralty. The objection applies with equal force to the
liens allowed for excess freight, payment of which was
procured by fraud or duress, or for freight paid in advance
where the voyage was abandoned after the ship was
loaded. 2 Admiralty is not concerned with the form of
the action, but with its substance. Even under the common law form of action for money had and received there
could be no recovery without proof of the breach of the
contract involved in demanding the payment, and the
basis of recovery there, as in admiralty, is the violation of
some term of the contract of affreightment, whether by
failure to carry or by exaction of freight which the contract did not authorize. See The Oceano, supra, 132; but
cf. Israel v. Moore & McCormack Co., 295 Fed. 919.
' See note 1, supra.

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. DIMON S.S. CORP.
117

125

Opinion of the Court.

It seems equally obvious that lack of knowledge by the
parties at the time of the payment that the freight demanded was excessive should have no bearing on the
existence of the lien. There is no hint in the books that
the security given by way of lien for the performance of
the contract of affreightment depends upon such knowledge. The liability of the vessel for damage to cargo
affords a not infrequent example of a lien which may
attach, although at the time of unloading cargo there
was no knowledge of the particular events which effected
the breach. See Rich v. Lambert, 12 How. 347.
We see no distinction, either in principle or with respect to the practical operation or convenience of maritime commerce, between the lien asserted here for overpayment of freight by mistake and those for overpayments
similarly made but induced by other means. Here, as
there, the overpayment, made as the cargo was unloaded,
occurred while the union of ship and cargo continued, and
the liability asserted was determined by events contemporaneous with that union. The circumstances which
called the lien into being do not differ in point of notoriety
from those giving rise to other affreightment liens upon
the vessel. While it is true that the maritime lien is
secret, hence is stricti juris and not to be extended by
implication, this does not mean that the right to the lien
is not to be recognized and upheld, when within accepted
supporting principles, merely because the circumstances
which call for its recognition are unusual or infrequent.
The suggestion made on the argument that the lien
asserted here, after the cargo is discharged, is affected by
application of the often stated rule that the liens on ship
and cargo. are mutual and reciprocal, is without basis. It
is only the obligations of ship and cargo under the contract of affreightment which are to be characterized as
mutual and reciprocal, not the liens which result from the

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

breach of those obligations. The one lien may come into
existence without the other and the lien on the ship in
favor of cargo, not being possessory, see Dupont de
Nemours & Co. v. Vance, 19 How. 162; Tatsuuma Kisen
Kabushiki Kaisha v. Robert Dollar Co., supra, may survive the lien of ship on cargo which is terminated by
unconditional delivery." 4885 Bags of Linseed, 1 Black
108.
We note, but do not discuss, the objection that the libel
may be taken to allege only a voluntary overpayment of
the freight without mistake, We think it may be construed to mean that the payment was made without knowledge at the time that a lower rate controlled. The court
below took that to be its meaning. Certiorari was granted
to review the question decided below and not the sufficiency of the pleadings to raise it.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS,

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

MR. JtSTICE SUTHERLAND,
JUSTICE ROBERTS are of

and MR.

opinion that the challenged judgment should be affirmed.
Secret liens are not favored, they should not be extended by construction, analogy or inference, or to circumstances where there is ground for serious doubt.
Osaka Shosen Kaisha v. Pacific Export Lumber Co., 260
U.S. 490.
sThe statement that liens of affreightment on ship and cargo are
mutual and reciprocal is based on the frequently quoted phrase of
Cleirac (597): "Le batel est ob::g6 i la marchandise et la marchandise au batel." Judge Hough indicated in The Saturnus, 250 Fed.
407, 412, that Cleirac's "clever phrase" referred to the mutual obligations flowing from the union of the personified ship and personified
cargo.
It has often been pointed out that the lien on cargo is not strictly
a privilege (see Pothier, Maritime Contract, Translation by Caleb
Cushing, Boston, 1821, 94-50; Hennebicq, Principes de droit Mari-

