NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
227

Decree.

match was the other. The effect of the former had not
ceased, but co-operated with that of the other in effecting
the injury. In such case an inquiry about the proximate
cause is not pertinent, for both are liable."
The court below erred in holding as matter of law that
the wife was guilty of contributory negligence and, therefore, its judgment cannot stand.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the district
court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK CITY.
No. 12, original. Argued November 6, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.
Decree (1) modifying the decree heretofore entered (284 U.S. 585),
by extending the effective date; (2) adding provisions for enforcement; (3) adjudging defendant liable for amounts expended by
plaintiff's municipal subdivisions to prevent or lessen defilement or
pollution of waters and shores of New Jersey; and (4) providing
that the costs, the expenses incurred by the special master, and
his compensation, shall be taxed against defendant.

HEARING, after report of Special Master, upon plaintiff's petition for enforcement of the final decree herein
and deferidant's answer and petition for an extension of
time.
Mr. Duane E. Minard, with whom Mr. William A.
Stevens, Attorney General of New Jersey, was on the
brief, for plaintiff:
Mr. Arthur J. W. Hilly, Corporation Counsel of New
York City, with whom Messrs. Thomas W. A. Crowe and
J. Joseph Lilly were on the brief, for defendant.
announced by MR. JUSTICE BUTLER.
Leave having been granted, 279 U.S. 823, the State of
New Jersey, May 20, 1929, filed its bill of complaint
against the City of New York and prayed that the City
be enjoined from dumping garbage or other noxious,
DECREE,

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1932
Decree.

290 U.S.

offensive or injurious matter into the ocean or other
waters of the United States off the coast of New Jersey
and from otherwise polluting its waters artd its beaches.
Defendant answered, raising issues of fact. The Court
appointed Edward K. Campbell special master, 280 U.S.
514, who took the evidence and reported the same, together with his findings of fact, conclusions of law and
recommendations for a decree.
He found that defendant had created and was continuing to create a public nuisance upon beaches and other
property of plaintiff, concluded plaintiff was entitled to
relief and recommended that injunction be granted as
prayed, but that defendant should be allowed a reasonable time within which to provide incinerators for the
disposal of its garbage and rubbish. After hearing upon
exceptions filed by defendant, the Court approved the
master's report. As no evidence had been taken to show
what time would be required, the master was directed to
take evidence upon that subject and report his findings
'and a form of decree. 283 U.S. 473. After evidence had
been taken, the parties agreed upon the terms of an injunction and prepared a proposed form of decree which
together with the master's report was filed with the Clerk.
December 7, 1931, the Court entered its decree, in the
form of that submitted, by the parties. Among other
things, it ordered, adjudged and decreed that on and
after June 1, 1933, defendant be enjoined as prayed, and
until then defendant utilize existing facilities to reduce
dumping to the lowest practicable limit and file reports
showing progress of construction and quantities of
garbage and rubbish dumped. 284 U.S. 585.
Defendant's reports, filed in April and October, 1932 and
April, 1933, show that it failed to take action necessary to
cease dumping within the time specified in the decree.
May 8, 1933, plaintiff filed its petition that defendant be
ordered to show cause why it should not be adjudged in
contempt of court. Defendant answered. It represented
that, because of lack of financial means, the construction

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
237

Decree.

of the plants had been unavoidably delayed and that it was
unable, within the time allowed, to complete the plants
and to cease dumping. It prayed that April 1, 1934, be
fixed as the effective date of the decree.
The Court ordered these applications to be heard November 6, 1933, and appointed Edward K. Campbell special master to take evidence to show the progress of
defendant's work of plant construction up to September
15, 1933, the time reasonably required to enable defendant
to comply with the decree, the amounts expended by
plaintiff and its political subdivisions subsequent to June
1, 1933 to prevent or lessen defilement or pollution of
waters, shores, or beaches within the State and the damages respectively sustained by them as a result of defendant's failure to comply with the decree. The order
directed him to make findings thereon. 289 U.S. 712.
October 19, 1933, the special master filed his report
showing, and the Court finds: Defendant has two incinerators under construction which, as estimated by its sanitation engineer, will be ready for operation on April 21,
and June 30, 1934, respectively. These plants will not be
quite adequate for disposal of defendant's garbage and
rubbish. Plaintiff's municipal subdivisions expended
between June 1 and September 15, 1933, the sum of
$2,160.79.
At the hearing, November 6, 1933, defendant, through
its counsel, represented that by the use of these incinerators and other means to be provided, it would be able fully
to comply with the decree on and after July 1, 1934, and it
prayed that the decree be modified to take effect on that
day. The Court grants the extension prayed and modifies
the decree by changing its effective date, adds provisions
for its enforcement, and adjudges defendant liable for the
amounts expended by plaintiff's political subdivisions, and
that defendant pay costs, the expenses incurred by the
master and his compensvtion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

Accordingly, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed:
1. On and after July- 1, 1934, the defendant, The City
of New York, its employees and agents, and all persons
assuming to act under its authority, be and they are hereby
enjoined from dumping, or procuring or suffering to be
dumped, any garbage or refuse, or other noxious, offensive
or injurious matter, into the ocean, or waters of the United
States, off the coast of New Jersey, and from otherwise
defiling or polluting said waters and the shores or beaches
thereof or procuring them to be defiled or polluted as
aforesaid.
2. If defendant shall fail to comply with paragraph 1
of this decree by July 1, 1934, it shall pay to plaintiff
$5,000.00 a day until it does so comply; such payments
however are to be without prejudice to any other relief to
which complainant may be found entitled.
3. Plaintiff shall have and recover from defendant the
sum of $2,160.79 for the use and benefit of its political
subdivisions above referred to.
And it is further ordered that the costs, the expenses
incurred by the special master and his compensation, to
be fixed by the Court, shall be taxed against the defendant.
KEYSTONE DRILLER CO. v. GENERAL
EXCAVATOR CO.*
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 34 and 35.

Argued October 19, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.

1. He who comes into equity must come with clean hands. P. 244.
2. This maxim applies only when some unconscionable act of the
plaintiff has immediate and necessary relation to the equity he
seeks in the litigation. P. 245.
* Together with Nos. 36 and 37, Keystone Driller Co. v. Osgood
Co., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

