FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
365

Syllabus.

but in discharge of a gift or legacy. The principle applied
in Burnet v. Whitehouse, 283 U.S. 148 is applicable.
The Commissioner rightly refused to allow the credits
claimed by the trustee and the judgment of the court
below must be reversed.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES, dissenting.

I agree with the opinion of the Court in Nos. 75, 76 and
78. I am unable to agree with the opinion in No. 77.
In that case, the testator created a trust for the benefit of
his wife, children, and grandchildren. The income of the
trust, by its express terms, was to be paid to his wife to
the extent of $50,000 a year. While the payment of this
annual amount was also charged on the principal of the
estate, resort could not be had to the principal if the income of the trust was sufficient. Johnston's Estate, 264
Pa. 71, 76; 107 Atl. 335. The widow was in every sense of
the word a beneficiary of the trust, and the amounts paid
to her out of the income of the trust were paid to her as a
beneficiary. These amounts were thus deductible by the
trustees, under the express provision of ยง 219 (b) (2) of
the Revenue Act of 1924, from the gross income of the
trust. As to this, I think it makes no difference whether
or not the widow was taxable on the amount of the income she received. The decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be affirmed.
FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 394.

Argued November 13, 14, 1933.-Decided December 11,
1933.

1. In a federal court the wife of the defendant on trial for a criminal
offense is a competent witness in his behalf. Hendrix v. United

372

OCTOBFR TERM, 1933.
Argument for the United States.

290 U.S.

States, 219 U.S. 79, and Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, 254 U.S.
189, overruled on this point. Pp. 373, 386.
2. In the absence of a federal statute governing the subject, the competency of witnesses in criminal trials in federal courts is determined by the common law. P. 379.
3. In the taking of testimony in criminal cases, the federal courts
are not bound by the rules of the common law as they existed at
a specified time in the respective States; they are to apply those
rules as they have been modified by changed conditions. P. 379.
"4. The reasons anciently assigned for disqualifying a wife as a witness in behalf of her husband in criminal cases, can no longer be
accepted in the federal courts, in view of modern thought and
legislation t uching the subject. P. 380.
5. The public policy of one generation may not, under changed conditions, be the public policy of another. P. 381.
6. The federal courts have no power to amend or repeal a rule of
the common law; but they have the power, and it is their duty,
in the absence of any congressional legislation on the subject, to
disregard an old rule which is contrary to modern experience and
thought and is opposed, in principle, to the general current of legislation and judicial opinion, and to declare and apply what is the
present rule in the light of*the new conditions. Pp. 381-383.
7. The common law is not immutable, but flexible, and by its own
principles adapts itself to varying conditions. P. 383.
66 F. (2d) 70, reversed.

CERTIORARI* to review the affirmance of a conviction
upon an indictment for conspiracy to violate the National

Prohibition Law.
Mr. John W. Carter, Jr., with whom Mr. Charles A.
Hammer was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Solicitor General MacLean, with whom
Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. A. W. W. Woodcock
and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
We contend that the law which is applicable in determining the competency of petitioner's wife to testify as a
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
371

Opinion of the Court.

witness in his behalf is the law of North Carolina as it
existed in 1789. United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361;
Logan v. United States, 144 U.S. 263; Jin Fuey Moy v.
United States, 254 U.S. 189. There is nothing in Benson
v. United States, 146 U.S. 325, or Rosen v. United States,
245 U.S. 467, which requires a different conclusion.
In 1789 the common law was in force in North Carolina. Under that law petitioner's wife was not a competent witness. Therefore, the teial court did not err in
refusing to allow her to testify.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The sole inquiry to be made in this case is whether in a
federal court the wife of the defendant on trial for a
criminal offense is a competent witness in his behalf.
Her competency to testify against him is not.involved.,
The petitioner was twice tried and convicted in a federal
district court upon an indictment for conspiracy to violate the prohibition law. His conviction on the first trial
was reversed by the circuit court of appeals upon a ground
not material here. 46 F. (2d) 417. Upon the second
trial, as upon the first, defendant called his wife to testify
in his behalf. At both trials she was excluded upon the
ground of incompetency. The circuit court of appeals
sustained this ruling upon the first appeal, and also upon
the appeal which followed the second trial. 66 F. (2d)
70. We granted certiorari, limited to the question as to
what law is applicable to the determination of the competency of the wife of the petitioner as a witness.
Both the petitioner. and the government, in presenting
the case here, put their chief reliance on prior decisions of
this court. The government relies on United States v.
Reid, 12 How. 361; Logan v. United States, 144 U.S. 263;
Hendrix v. United States, 219 U.S. 79; and Jin Fuey Moy

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

v. 'United States, 254 U.S. 189. Petitioner contends that
these cases, if not directly contrary to the decisions in
Benson v. United States, 146 U.S. 325, and Rosen v.
United States, 245 U.S. 467, are so in principle. We shall
first briefly review these cases, with the exception of the
Hendrix case and the Jin Fuey Moy case, which we leave
for consideration until a later point in this opinion.
In the Reid case, two persons had been jointly indicted
for a murder committed upon the high seas. They were
tried separately, and it was held that one of them was not
a competent witness in behalf of the other who was first
tried. The trial was had in Virginia; and by a statute
of that state passed in 1849, if applicable in a federal
court, the evidence would have been competent. Section
34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 declares that the laws of
the several states. except where the Constitution, treaties
or statutes of the United States otherwise provide, shalf
be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law
in the courts of the United States in cases where they
apply; but the court said that this referred only to civil
cases and did not apply in the trial of criminal offenses
against the United States. It was conceded that there
was no act of Congress prescribing in express words the
rule by which the federal courts would be governed in the
admission of testimony in criminal cases. "But," the
court said (p. 363), "we think it may be found with sufficient certainty, not indeed in direct. terms, but by necessary implication, in the acts of 1789 and 1790, establishing the courts of the United States, and providing for the
punishment of certain offences."
The court pointed out that the Judiciary Act regulated
certain proceedings to be had prior to impaneling the
jury, but contained no express provision concerning the
mode of conducting the trial after the jury was sworn,
and prescribed no rule in respect of the testimony to be
taken. Obviously however, it was said, some certain and

FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
371

Opinion of the Court.

established rule upon the subject was necessary to enable
the courts to administer the criminal jurisprudence of the
United States, and Congress must have intended to refer
them to some known and established rule "which was
supposed to be so familiar and well understood in the trial
by jury that legislation upon the subject would be deemed
superfluous. This is necessarily to be implied from what
these acts of Congress omit, as well as from what they
contain." (p. 365.) The court concluded that this could
not be the common law as it existed at the time of the
emigration of the colonists, or the rule which then prevailed in England, and [therefore] the only known rule
which could be supposed to have been in the mind of
Congress was that which was in force in the respective
states when the federal courts were established by the
Judiciary Act of 1789. Applying this rule, it was decided
that the witness was incompetent.
In the Logan case it was held that the competency of
a witness to testify in a federal court sitting in one state,
was not affected by his conviction and sentence for felony
in another state; and that the competency of another
witness was not affected by his conviction of felony in a
Texas state court, where the witness had since been pardoned. The indictment was for an offense committed in
Texas and there tried. The decision was based not upon
any statute of the United States, but upon the ground
that the subject" is governed by the common law, which,
as has been seen, was the law of Texas . . . at the time
of the admission of Texas into the Union as a State."
(p. 303.)
We next consider the two cases upon which petitioner
relies. In the Benson case two persons were jointly indicted for murder. On motion of the government there
was a severance, and Benson was first tried. His codefendant was called as a witness on behalf of the government The Reid case had been cited as practically de-

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

cisive of the question. But the court, after pointing out
what it conceived to be distinguishing features in that
case, said (p. 335), "We do not feel ourselves, therefore,
precluded by that case from examining this question
in the light of general authority and sound reason." The
alleged incompetency of the codefendant was rested upon
two reasons, first, that he was interested, and second, that
he was a party to the record, the basis for the exclusion
at common law being fear of perjury. "Nor," the court
said, "were those named the only grounds of exclusion
from the witness stand; conviction of crime, want of religious belief, and other matters were held sufficient. Indeed, the theory of the common law was to admit to the
witness stand only those presumably honest, appreciating
the sanctity of an oath, unaffected as a party by the result, and free from any of the temptations of interest.
The courts were afraid to trust the intelligence of jurors.
But the last fifty years have wrought a great change in
these respects, and to-day the tendency is to enlarge the
domain of competency and to submit to the jury for their
consideration as to the credibility of the witness those
matters which heretofore were ruled sufficient to justify
his exclusion. This change has been wrought partially
by legislation and partially by judicial construction."
Attention then is called to the fact that Congress in 1864
had enacted that no witness should be excluded from
testifying in any civil action, with certain exceptions, because he was a party to or interested in the issue tried;
and that in 1878 (c. 37, 20 Stat. 30) Congress made the
defendant in any criminal case a competent witness at
his own request. The opinion then continues (p. 337):
"Legislation of similar import prevails in most of the
States. The spirit of this legislation has controlled the
decisions of the courts, and steadily, one by one, the
merely technical barriers which excluded witnesses from
the stand have been removed, till now it is generally,

FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
371

Opinion of the Court.

though perhaps not universally, true that no one is excluded therefrom unless the lips of the originally adverse
party are closed by death, or unless some one of those
peculiarly confidential relations, like that of husband and
wife, forbids the breaking of silence.
If interest and being party to the record do not
exclude a defendant on trial from the witness stand, upon
what reasoning can a codefendant, not on trial, be
adjudged incompetent?"
That case was decided December 5, 1892. Twenty-five
years later this court had before it for consideration the
case of Rosen v. United States, supra. Rosen had been
tried and convicted in a federal district court for conspiracy. A person jointly indicted with Rosen, who had
been convicted upon his plea of guilty, was called as a
witness by the government and allowed to testify over
Rosen's objection. This court sustained the competency
of the witness. After saying that while the decision in
the Reid case had not been specifically overruled, its
authority was seriously shaken by the decisions in both
the Logan and Benson cases, the court proceeded to dispose of the question, as it had been disposed of in the
Benson case, "in the light of general authority and sound
reason."
"In the almost twenty [twenty-five] years," the court
said [pp. 471, 472], "which have elapsed since the decision of the Benson Case, the disposition of courts and of
legislative bodies to remove disabilities from witnesses
has continued, as that decision shows it had been going
forward before, under dominance of the conviction of our
time that the truth is more likely to be arrived at by hearing the testimony of all persons of competent understanding who may seem to have knowledge of the facts
involved in a case, leaving the credit and weight of such
testimony to be determiiied by the jury or by the court,
rather than by rejecting witnesses as incompetent, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

the result that this principle has come to be widely, almost universally, accepted in this country and in Great
Britain.
"Since the decision in the Benson Case we have significant evidence of the trend of congressional opinion upon
this subject in the removal of the disability of witnesses
convicted of perjury, Rev. Stats., ยง 5392, by the enactment of the Federal Criminal Code in 1909 with this provision omitted and ยง 5392 repealed. This is significant,
because the disability to testify, of persons convicted of
perjury, survived in some jurisdictions much longer than
many of the other common-law disabilities, for the reason
that the offense concerns directly the giving of testimony
in a court of justice, and conviction of it was accepted as
showing a greater disregard for the truth than it was
thought should be implied from a conviction of other
crime.
"Satisfied as we are that the legislation and the very
great weight of judicial authority which have developed
in support of this modern rule, especially as applied to the
competency of witnesses convicted of crime, proceed upon
sound principle, we conclude that the dead hand of the
common-law rule of 1789 should no longer be applied to
such cases as we have here, and that the ruling of the
lower courts on this first claim of error should be
approved."
It is well to pause at this point to state a little more concisely what was held in fhese cases. It will be noted, in
the first place, that the decision in the Reid case was not
based upon any express statutory provision. The court
found from what the congressional legislation omitted to
say, as well as from what it actually said, that in establishing the federal courts in 1789 some definite rule in respect of the testimony to be taken in criminal cases must
have been in the mind of Congress; and the rule which
the court thought was in the mind of that body was that
of the common .law as it existed in the thirteen original

FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
371

Opinion of the Court.

states in 1789. The Logan case in part rejected that view
and held that the controlling rule was that of the common
law in force at the time of the admission of the state in
which the particular trial was had. Taking the two cases
together, it is plain enough that the ultimate doctrine announced is that in the taking of testimony in criminal
cases, the federal courts are bound by the rules of the
common, law as they existed at a definitely specified time
in the respective states, unless Congress has otherwise
provided.
With the conclusion that the controlling rule is that of
the common law, the Benson case and the Rosen case do
not conflict; but both cases reject the notion, which the
two earlier ones seem to accept, that the courts, in the
fa4ce of greatly changed conditions, are still chained to
the ancient formulae and are powerless to declare and
enforce modifications deemed to have been wrought in
the common law itself by force of these changed conditions. Thus, as we have seen, the court in the Benson
case pointed to the tendency during the preceding years
to enlarge the domain of competency, significantly saying
that the changes had been wrought not only by legislation
but also "partially by judicial construction "; and that it
was the spirit (not the letter, be it observed) of this legislation which had controlled the decisions of the courts
and steadily removed the merely technical barriers in
respect of incompetency, until generally no one was excluded from giving testimony, except under certain peculiar conditions which are set forth. It seems difficult to
escape the conclusion that the specific ground upon which
the court there rested its determination as to the competency of a codefendant was that, since the defendant had
been rendered competent, the competency of the codefendant followed as a natural consequence.
This view of the matter is made more positive by the
decision in the Rosen case. The question of the testi-

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

monial competency of a person jointly indicted with the
defendant was disposed of, as the question had been in
the Benson case, "in the light of general authority and
sound reason." The conclusion which the court reached
was based not upon any definite act of legislation, but
upon the trend of congressional opinion and of legislation
(that is to say of legislation generally), and upon the
great weight of judicial authority which, since the earlier
decisions, had developed in support of a more modern rule.
In both cases the court necessarily proceeded upon the
theory that the resultant modification which these important considerations had wrought in the rules of the
old common law was within the power of the courts to
declare and make operative.
That the present case falls within the principles of the
Benson and Rosen cases, and especially of the latter, we
think does not reasonably admit of doubt.
The rules of the common law which disqualified as witnesses persons having an interest, long since, in the main,
have been abolished both in England and in this country;
and what was once regarded as a sufficient ground for excluding the testimony of such persons altogether has come
to be uniformly and more sensibly regarded as affecting
the credit of the witness only. Whatever was the danger
that an interested witness would not speak the truth-and
the danger never was as great as claimed-its effect has
been minimized almost to the vanishing point by the test
of cross-examination, the increased intelligence of jurors,
and perhaps other circumstances. The modern rule which
has remQved the disqualification from persons accused of
crime gradually came into force after the middle of the
last century, and is today universally accepted. The exclusion of the husband or wife is said by this court to be
based upon his or her interest in the event. Jin Fuey
Moy v. United States, supra. And whether by this is
meant a practical interest in the result of the prosecution

FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
371

Opinion of the Court.

or merely a sentimental interest because of the marital
relationship, makes little difference. In either case, a
refusal to permit the wife upon the ground of interest to
testify in behalf of her husband, while permitting him,
who has the greater interest, to testify for himself, presents a manifest incongruity.
Nor can the exclusion of the wife's testimony, in the
face of the broad and liberal extension of the rules in
respect of the competency of witnesses generally, be any
longer justified, if it ever was justified, on any ground of
public policy. It has been said that to admit such testimony is against public policy because it would endanger
the harmony and confidence of marital relations, and,
moreover, would subject the witness to the temptation to
commit perjury. Modern legislation, in making either
spouse competent to testify in behalf of the other in
criminal cases, has definitely rejected these notions, and
in the light of such legislation and of modern thought
they seem to be altogether fanciful. The public policy
of one generation may not, under changed conditions, be
the public policy of another. Patton v. United States,
281 U.S. 276, 306.
The fundamental basis upon which all rules of evidence
must rest-if they are to rest upon reason-is their adaptation to the successful development of the truth. And
since experience is of all teachers the most dependable,
and since experience also is a continuous process, it follows that a rule of evidence at one time thought necessary
to the ascertainment of truth should yield to the experience of a succeeding generation whenever that experience has clearly demonstrated the fallacy or unwisdom
of the old rule.
It may be said that the court should continue to enforce
the old rule, however contrary to modern experience and
thought, and however opposed, in principle, to the general current of legislation and of judicial opinion, it may

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

have become, leaving to Congress the responsibility of
changing it. Of cofirse, Congress has that power; but
if Congress fail to act, as it has failed in respect of the
matter now under review, and the court be called upon
to decide the question, is it not the duty of the court, if
it possess the power, to decide it in accordance with present day standards of wisdom and justice rather than in
accordance with some outworn and antiquated rule of
the past? That this court has the power to do so is necessarily implicit in the opinions delivered in deciding the
Benson and Rosen cases. And that implication, we think,
rests upon substantial ground. The rule of the common
law which denies the competency of one spouse to testify
in behalf of the other in a criminal prosecution has not
been modified by congressional legislation; nor has Congress directed the federal courts to follow state law upon
that subject, as it has in respect of some other subjects.
That this court and the other federal courts, in this situation and by right of their own powers, may decline to
enforce the ancient rule of the common law under conditions as they now exist we think is not fairly open to
doubt.
In Hurtado v. California,110 U.S. 516, 530, this court,
after suggesting that it was better not to go too far back
into antiquity for the best securities of our liberties, said:
"It is more consonant to the true philosophy of our
historical legal institutions to say that the spirit of personal liberty and individual right, which they embodied,
was preserved and developed by a progressive growth and
wise adaptation to new circumstances and situations of
the forms and processes found fit to give, from time to
time, new expression and greater effect to modern ideas
of self-government.
"This flexibility and capacity for growth and adaptation
is the peculiar boast and excellence of the common law.

FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
371

383

Opinion of the Court.

"... and as it was the characteristic principle of the
common law to draw its inspiration from every fountain
of justice, we are not to assume that the sources of its
supply have been exhausted. On the contrary, we should
expect that the new and various experiences of our own
situation and system will mould and shape it into new and
not less useful forms."
Compare Holden v.'Hardy, 169 U.S. 366, 385-387.
To concede this capacity for growth and change in the
common law by drawing" its inspiration from every fountain of justice," and at the same time to say that the
courts of this country are forever bound to perpetuate
such of its rules as, by every reasonable test, are found to
be neither wise nor just, because we have once adopted
them as suited to our situation and institutions at a particular time, is to deny to the common law in the place of
its adoption a "flexibility and capacity for growth and
adaptation" which was "the peculiar boast and excellence" of the system in the place of its origin.
The final question to which we are thus brought is not
that of the power of the federal courts to amend or repeal
any given rule or principle of the common law, for they
neither. have nor claim that power, but it is the question
of the power of these courts, in the complete absence of
congressional legislation on the subject, to declare and
effectuate, upon common law principles, what is the present rule upon a given subject in the light of fundamentally
altered conditions, without regard to what has previously
been declared and practiced. It has been said so often as
to have become axiomatic that the common law is not
immutable but flexible, and by its own principles adapts
itself to varying conditions. In Ketelsen v. Stilz, 184 Ind.
702; 111 N.E. 423, the supreme court of that state, after
pointing out that the common law of England was based
upon usages, customs and institutions of the Epglish

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

people as declared from time to time by the courts, said
(p. 707):
"The rules so deduced from this system, however,
were continually changing and expanding with the progress of society in the application of this system to more
diversified circumstances and -under more advanced
periods. The common law by its own principles adapted
itself to varying conditions and modified'its own rules so
as to serve the ends of justice as prompted by a course of
reasoning which was guided by these generally accepted
truths: One of its oldest maxims was that where the
reason of a rule ceased, the rule also ceased, and it logically followed that when it occurred to the courts that a
particular rule had never been founded upon reason, and
that no reason existed in support thereof, that rule likewise ceased, and perhaps another sprang up in its place
which was based upon reason and justice as then conceived. No rule of the common law could survive the
reason on which it was founded. It needed no statute to
change it but abrogated itself."
That court then refers to the settled doctrine 'that an
adoption of the common law in general terms does not
require, without regard to local circumstances, an unqualified application of all its rules; that the rules, as declared
by the English courts at one period or another, have been
controlling in this country only so far as they were suited
to and in harmony with the genius, spirit and objects of
American institutions; and that the rules of the common
law considered proper in the eighteenth century are not
necessarily so considered in the twentieth. "Since courts
have had an existence in America," that court said (p.
708), "they have never hesitated to take upon themselves
the responsibility of saying what are the proper rules of
the common law."
And the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, in Hanriot
v. Sherwood, 82 Va. 1, 15, after pointing to the fact that

FUNK v. UNITED STATES.
371

385

Opinion of the Court.

the common law of England is the law of that commonwealth except so far as it has been altered by statute, or
so far as its principles are inapplicable to the state of the
country, and that the rules of the common law had undergone modification in the courts of England, notes with
obvious approval that "the rules of evidence have been
in the courts of this country undergoing such modification
and changes, according to the circumstances of the country and the manner and genius of the people."
The supreme court of Connecticut, in Beardsley v.
Hartford,50 Conn. 529, 541-542, after quoting the maxim
of the common law, cessante ratione legis, cessat ipsa lex,
said:
"This mearq that no law can survive the reasons on
which it is founded. It needs no statute to change it;
it abrogates itself. If the reasons on which a law rests
are overborne by opposing reasons, which in the progress
of society gain a controlling force, the old law, though
still good as an abstract principle, and good in its application to some circumstances, must cease to apply as a
controlling principle to the new circumstaces."
The same thought is expressed in People v. Randolph,
2 Park. Cr. Rep. (N.Y.) 174, 177:
"Its rules [the rules of the common law] are modified
upQn its own principles and not in violation of them.
Those rules being founded in reason, one of its oldest
maxims is, that where the reason of the rule ceases the
rule also ceases."
.It was in virtue of this maxim of the common law that
the supreme court of Nevada, in Reno Smelting Works v.
Stevenson, 20 Nev. 269; 21 Pac. 317, in a well reasoned
opinion, held that the common:law doctrine of riparian
rights was unsuited to conditions prevailing in the arid
land states and territories of the west, and therefore was
without force in Nevada; and that, in respect of the use
of water, the applicable rule was based upon the doctrine
of prior appropriation for a beneficial use.

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court..

290 U.S.

In Illinois it was held at an early day that the rule of
the common law which required an owner of cattle to
keep them upon his own land was not in force in that
state, notwithstanding its adoption of the common law
of England, being unsuited to conditions there in view
of the extensive areas of land which had been left open
and unfenced and devoted to grazing purposes. Seeley
v. Peters, 5 Gil. (Ill.). 130.
Numerous additional state decisions to the same effect
might be cited; but it seems unnecessary to pursue the
matter at greater length.
It results from the foregoing that the decision of the
court below, in holding the wife incompetent, is erroneous.
But that decision was based primarily upon He drix v.
United States and Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, supra,
and in fairness to the lower court it should be said that
its decision was fully supported by those cases.
In the Hendrix case the opinion does not discuss the
point; it simply recites the assignment of error to the
effect that the wife of Hendrix had not been allowed to
testify in his behalf, and dismisses the matter by the
laconic statement, "The ruling was not error." In the
Jin Fuey Moy case it was conceded at the bar that the
wife was not a competent witness for all purposes, but it
was contended that her testimony was admissible in that
instance because she was offered not in behalf of her husband, that is not to prove his innocence, but simply to
contradict the testimony of government-witnesses who had
testified to certain matters as having transpired in her
presence. The court held the distinction to be without
substance, as clearly it was, and thereupon disposed of
the question by saying that the rule which excludes a wife
from testifying for her husband is based upon her interest
in the event and applies without regard to the kind of testimony she might give. The point does not seem to have
been considered by the lower court to which the writ of
error was addressed (253 Fed. 213); nor, as plainly appears, was the real point as it is here involved presented

ORMSBY v. CHASE.
371

387

Statement of the Case.

in this court. The matter was disposed of as one "hardly
requiring mention." Evidently the point most in the
mind of the court was the distinction relied upon, and
not the basic rule which was not contested. Both the
Hendrix and Jin Fuey Moy'cases are out of harmony with
the Rosen and Benson cases and with the views which
we have here expressed. In respect of the question here
under review, both are now overruled.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER are

of opinion that the judgment of the court below is right
and should be affirmed.
ORMSBY ET AL., EXECUTORS, v. CHASE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 101.

Argued November 15, 16, 1933.-Decided December 11,
1933.

1. Whether a claim for damages survives the death of the wrongdoer is determined by the law of the place of the wrong. P. 388.
2. By the law of New York, a right of action based upon a wrong
done there abates with the death of the wrongdoer. Held, an
action can not be maintained in a federal court in Pennsylvania
for such a wrong, when the action was not commenced until after
the death of the wrongdoer. P. 388.
3. The Pennsylvania survival statute (Laws 1921, No. 29, ยง 35 (b))
does not give to the plaintiff on a foreign cause of action any substantive right. P. 389.
4. No question of revivor is involved in this case. P. 389.
65 F. (2d) 521, reversed.

to review a judgment reversing a judgment of the District Court, 3 F. Supp. 680, for the
defendant in an action for damages.
CERTIORARI*

* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

