BULLARD v. CISCO.
177

Syllabus.

situation different from that to which the opinion below
was addressed.
In order to prevent the possibility that the decree may
operate injuriously in the future, the decree will be modified by providing that the members of the State Tax Commission, or that Commission, may apply at any time to
the court below, by bill or otherwise, as they may be
advised, for a further order or decree, in case it shall
appear that the statute has been sustained by the state
court as valid under the state constitution, or that by
reason of a change in circumstances the statute may be

regarded as imposing a valid tax.

See Minnesota Rate

Cases, 230 U.S. 352, at p. 473.
Decree modified as stated in the
opinion and, as modified, affirmed.

BULLARD

ET AL. V. CITY

OF CISCO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 10.

Argued October 12, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

I. The right of a transferee of corporate bonds and coupons, payable
to bearer, to sue in a federal court, notwithstanding a disability
of his transferrers in that regard, turns on the nature of the transfer-whether it'
be real or only a colorable device to enable the
transferrers, through the favor and name of the transferee, to
invoke a federal jurisdiction which they could not invoke in their
own right. P. 187.
2.-Numerous owners of defaulted municipal bonds and coupons,
drawn payable to bearer, transferred them under a "bondholders'
protective agreement" to four persons, styled a "bondholders'
committee," for the purpose of conserving, salvaging and adjusting the investment. To this end the transferees were invested
with full title to the securities and with broad discretionary powers to act by refinancing, composition, exchange of securities and
other means, including litigation. Held:

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

(1) That the transferees were owners of the securities subject
to an express trust. P. 189.
(2) That under § 41 (1), Title 28, U.S.C., their right to sue
in the federal court to collect the bonds and coupons depended
upon their own citizenship and the amount they sued for, not upon
the citizenship of the transferrers and the amounts of their individual interests. P. 190.
62 F. (2d), 313, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 718, to. review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed, with a modification, a judgment of the District Court dismissing an
action for want of jurisdiction. Both of the judgments
are here reversed.

Mr. Dexter Hamilton for petitioners.
Mr. F. D. Wright, with whom Mr. J. J. Butts was on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was an action at law brought in the federal court
for the Northern District of Texas against the city of
Cisco to recover on bonds and coupons issued by it. The
plaintiffs were citizens of States other than Texas-three
of New York and one of Ohio. The defendant city was
a municipal corporation of Texas.
Of the pleadings it suffices now to say that the plaintiffs in their petition alleged that they were owners and
holders of the bonds and coupons sued on, the former
aggregating $14,000 and the latter $335,787.50; and that
the defendant in its answer challenged the court's jurisdiction by alleging that the plaintiffs were not actual or
beneficial owners of the bonds and coupons sued on but
held them solely for purposes of collection on behalf of
others who severally were the real owners, and none of

BULLARD v. CISCO.
179

Opinion of the Court.

whom could sue in the federal court because their respective holdings were not in excess of $3,000.
The evidence at the trial, so far as now material, was
to the following effect: The city of Cisto in 1902-1928
issued and sold, for considerations duly received, its bonds
aggregating a large sum. Attached to the bonds were
coupons to be paid from time to time. The bonds and
coupons were all negotiable in form and payable to
bearer. When this suit was begun the plaintiffs held
$2,115,000 of the bonds, $14,000 thereof being past due
and unpaid, and held past due and unpaid coupons aggregating $335,787.50. These past due bonds and coupons
are the ones in suit and the plaintiffs produced them in.
evidence.
All of the bonds and coupons held by the plaintiffs were
transferred to them by prior holders in conformity with,
and for purposes defined in, a bondholderg protective agreement of January 3, 1930. The prior holders were all citizens of States other than Texas; but the extent of their
respective holdings so transferred was not shown by the
evidence,save as it disclosed that, the coupons sued on
included $5,403.75 which, with the bonds to which they
pertained, were received from George F. Averill, a citizen
of Maine; $3,120 which, with the bonds to which they pertained, were received from the Title and Guaranty Trust
Company, a corporate citizen of Ohio; and $5,590 which,
with the bonds to which they pertained, were received
from E. Sohier Welch, a citizen of Massachusetts.
The agreement of January 3, 1930, in general outline was
much like the usual bondholders' protective agreement.
The parties to it were, upon one hand, the plaintiffs, who

were called the bondholders committee, and, on the other
hand, all holders of bonds or coupons of the city who might
thereafter deposit the same under the agreement in the
manner provided.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

There were introductory recitals that the city had failed
to make payments of interest and principal in 1929; that
it was desirable-that holders of the bonds and coupons
should "unite and organize for the protection of their interests "; that this protection could be "accomplished
most effectively and with the least expense" through the
committee if it were invested "with full power and authority in the premises "; and that the. committee had
consented to act. Provisions then followed for a depositary which was to act on behalf of the committee and
under its direction; for the deposit of bonds and coupons
with the depositary by their several holders, the deposit
to be such as would transfer to the committee "the complete and absolute title "; and for the issue to each depositor of a certificate of deposit transferable only upon
the books of the depositary. Other related provisions
declared that the registered holder of any certificate of
deposit should be deemed "for all purposes to be the absblute owner thereof and of the bonds and/or coupons
therein referred to, and neither the depositary nor the
committee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary "; that each depositor should be deemed, by reason
of his deposit, to have assented to and agreed to be bound
by all provisions of the agreement; that no depositor
should have "any right to withdraw any bonds or coupons
from deposit" or "to take any separate action" with respect to them after their deposit; and that deposited
bonds and coupons " shall not be satisfied or discharged
except if and as may be expressly declared or provided by
the committee."
Two paragraphs, particularly defining the title and powers which the committee was to have, declared:
"Seventh: Every depositor, for himself and not for any
other, hereby sells, assigns, transfers and delivers to the
Committee, its successors and assigns, each and every bond
and coupon deposited hereunder by him, and also all his
right, title, interest, property and claim at law, or in

BULLARD v. CISCO.
179

Opinion of the Court.

equity, by virtue of said bonds and coupons ... and any
and all his claims against the City or any receiver or receivers, or under any receivership of the City,' or any of
its property, to the end that the Committee, as from time
to time constituted, shall be vested with full legal title to
all the bonds and coupons deposited hereunder, and to
each and every claim based thereon ...
"Eighth: The Committee may, as the owner and
holder of the deposited bonds and coupons, demand, collect and receive all moneys due or payable thereon and
may take or cause to be taken, or participate in or settle,
compromise or discontinue, any actions or proceedings for
the collection of any of the bonds or coupons or the protection, enforcement or foreclosure of any legal or equitable lien securing or pertaining to same, including liens
arising from the enforcement of taxes, levies, and assessments dedicated, levied or available for the service of the
bonds,2 or for the appointment of a receiver of the City
or for any purpose whatsoever. The Committee may give
such directions, execute such papers, and do such acts, as
the Committee may consider wise or proper in order to
preserve or enforce the rights or to advance or serve the
interest of the depositors ....
'The references to a possible receivership for the city and to the
enforcement of taxes dedicated to the payment of the bonds have
explanation in laws of Texas permitting receiverships for cities in
certain situations, and in other laws of that State requiring the
governing body of a city before issuing its bonds to "provide
for the levy and collection of a tax annually sufficient to pay the
annual interest and provide a sinking fund for the payment of such
bonds." Constitution of Texas, Article II, § 5; Baldwin's Texas
Statutes, arts. 826, 1024, 1241-1258; Vernon's Ann. Civ. St. (Tex.),
arts. 826, 1024, 1241-1258; City of Cisco charter, article 11, §§
7, 9, and article 13, § 4; Chapter 46, Texas Gen. Laws of 1929, p. 80
(repealed by Act of March 13, 1931, c. 26, Texas Gen. Laws of
1931, p. 33). And see Bullard v. Cisco, 48 F. (2d) 212.
'See note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Other paragraphs authorized the committee to purchase, acquire, sell or dispose of any property "which
may be or become affected by any such lien, foreclosures,
or taxes"; to borrow money for the purpose of making
such purchases or acquisitions, discharging liens on property so purchased or acquired, or paying obligations and
expenses of the committee, or for any other purpose of
the agreement; and " to pledge all or any part of the
bonds and coupons deposited hereunder as collateral
security for the payment of any such loan or loans."
There were also provisions relating to " a plan or plans
for the refinancing, readjustment, liquidation or settlement of all of the bonds and/or other obligations of said
city." ' By these provisions the committee was authorized to prepare or participate in preparing such a plan and
to include therein arrangements (a) for the purchase or
acquisition of any properties or securities, the purchase
or acquisit'on of which, in the opinion of the committee,
would aid in advancing the interests of the certificate
holders, and (b) for the "sale, exchange or disposition"
of the " whole or any pro rata part of the deposited bonds
and coupons." The plan was to be submitted to the
holders of certificates of deposit, and each holder was to
be taken as assenting thereto unless within thirty days
he dissented in writing. If two thirds assented the committee was to be at liberty either -to make the plan operative or to abandon it and submit another. If any plan
from which there was a dissent was made operative the
committee was required to return to each dissenting certificate holder " The bonds and coupons represented by
his certificate," upon the surrender of the certificate and
the payment by him of " an amount to be fixed by the
committee "-which amount evidently was to be fixed
'A law of Texas particularly authorizes the governing body of a
city to " compromise and fund " its indebtedness and to issue new
bonds on the basis of the compromise. Baldwin's Texas Statutes,
arts. 828-834; Vernon's Ann. Civ. St. (Tex.) arts. 828-834.

BULLARD v. CISCO.
179

Opinion of the Court.

on the basis prescribed in another provision soon to be
mentioned.
The agreement further declared that the deposited
bonds and coupons and all property purchased or acquired by the committee should be charged with the payment of the compensation, expenses, etc., of the committee; that any member of the committee might become
"pecuniarily interested" in any property or matters
which might be subject to the agreement or to any plan
of readjustment; and that the committee should have
authority to construe the agreement, and its construction
thereof, made in good faith, should be conclusive and
bind the holders of certificates of deposit.
It was also provided that the agreement should not
remain in force beyond the period of five years from its
date, unless extended by the committee with the consent
of the holders of certificates representing a majority in
amount of the deposited bonds and coupons; and that the
committee, if considering it expedient, might terminate
the agreement at any time by a vote of two thirds of its
members and giving notice thereof to the certificate
holders.
Upon the termination of the agreement the securities,
cash and property held thereunder by the committee were
to be distributed by the committee among the certificate
holders according to the amount of deposited bonds and
coupons represented by their respective certificates, but
subject to and upon the condition that each certificate
holder should pay his share, as fixed by the committee, of
the compensation and expenses of the committee, its counsel, agents and depositary, and of all indebtedness, obligations and liabilities incurred by the committee.
From the evidence here outlined the District Court
concluded (a) that under the agreement the committee
(the plaintiffs) received the bonds and coupons merely
as a collection agency and had no real ownership of them;
(b) that of the owners who deposited their bonds and

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

coupons with the committee only three were shown to
have severally deposited more than $3,000 of those sued
on; and (c) that the particular bonds and coupons received from these three depositors were not in the evidence identified or segregatefi from the others. The court
gave effect to its conclusions by sustaining the challenge
to its jurisdiction and dismissing the suit without
prejudice.
On an appeal by the plaintiffs, the Circuit Court of
Appeals held that under the agreement the committee
received and held the legal title to the bonds and coupons
simply for purposes of collection and had no beneficial
ownership; that the depositing holders remained the beneficial owners; that as to such of the bonds and coupons in
suit as could not have been sued on by the beneficial
owners, because their respective holdings were not in excess of $3,000, the suit was not within the jurisdiction of
the District Court and should have been dismissed; that
as to such of the bonds and coupons in suit as could have
been sued on by the beneficial owners, because their respective holdings were in excess of $3,000, the suit "was
not kept from being one within the court's jurisdiction
by the fact that appellants [the committee] were vested
with the legal title to those instruments simply for the
purpose of collection '; and that, as the coupons in suit
included three lots-each of more than $3,000 and apparently susceptible of identification and segregation-which
were received from depositing holders who could have
sued thereon in the federal court, it was error to dismiss
the suit in its entirety for want of jurisdiction without
distinctly according to the plaintiffs an opportunity by
evidence to identify and segregate the coupons received
in the lots of more than $3,000.
Thus, the Court of Appeals, while in the main approving the District Court's decision of the jurisdictional
issue, pronounced its judgment of dismissal erroneous as

BULLARD v. CISCO.
179

Opinion of the Court.

to a minor part of the coupons sued on. For that error
the judgment of the District Court was reversed with
a direction for further proceedings conforming to the rulings of the Court of Appeals. 62 F. (2d) 313.
The plaintiffs, insisting that the suit in its entirety was
within the District Court's jurisdiction, petitioned for
certiorari, which this Court granted.
Under § 41 (1), Title 28, U.S.C.,' two things were essential to the jurisdiction of the District Court-one, that the
suit be between citizens of -different States, and the other
that the sum or value in controversy, exclusive of interest
and costs, be in excess of $3,000. It was shown and not
questioned that the parties--the plaintiffs on the one hand
and the defendant on the other-were citizens of different
States. The suit was on bonds amounting to $14,000 and
coupons amounting to $335,787.50-all payable to bearer,
made by the defendant corporation and held by the plaintiffs--and recovery was sought of the full amount of these
bonds and coupons. Thus both jurisdictional requisites
were apparently present.
But it is-urged that a part of that which made for such
apparent jurisdiction was not real but colorable only, in
that the plaintiffs had no actual ownership of the bonds
and coupons sued on, but held them solely for purposes of
zollection on behalf of others who severally were the
'Sec.

41. The district courts shall have original jurisdiction as

follows:
(1) First. Of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in
equity, . . . where the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of
interest and costs, the sum or value of $3,000, and . . . is between
citizens of different States, . . . No district court shall have cognizance of any suit (except upon foreign bills of exchange) to recover
upon any promissory notes or other chose in action in favor of any
assignee, or of any subsequent holder if such instrument be payable
to bearer and be not made by any corporation, unless such suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover upon said note
or other chose in action if no assignment had been made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

actual owners but unable to sue in the federal court since
their respective claims were too small to satisfy the jurisdictional requirement. If this were all true the conclusion
would follow that the suit was not properly within the
jurisdiction of the District Court and should have been
dismissed under § 80, Title 28, U.S.C.'
On the other hand, if the transfers whereby the plaintiffs carpe to hold the bonds and coupons were not merely
colorable or simply for purposes of collection, but were
real and intended to invest the plaintiffs with the full
title, even though in trust for purposes of which the transferrers ultimately would be the chief beneficiaries, it is
quite plain that the plaintiffs could sue in the federal
court notwithstanding the several transferrers, by reason
of their small holdings, may have been unable to do so.
With one accord prior decisions of this Court show that
the right of a transferee of corporate bonds and coupons,
payable to bearer, to sue in a federal court, notwithstanding a disability of his transferrers in that regard, turns on
'See. 80. "If in any suit commenced in a district court, or removed
from a State court to a district court of the United States, it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the said district court, at any time after
such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that such suit does
not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly
within the jurisdiction of said district court, or that the parties to
said suit have been improperly or collusively made or joined, either
as plaintiffs or. defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this chapter, the said district court shall
proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to
the court from which.it was removed,, as justice may require, and shall
make such order as to costs as shall be just."
As examples of the enforcement of this provision, see Williams v.
Nottawa, 104 U.S. 209; Bernards Township v. Stebbins, 109 U.S. 341,
354-356; Farmington v. Pillsbury, 114 U.S. 138, 143-146; Lake
County v. Dudley, 173 U.S. 243, 252-254; Waite v. Santa Cruz,
184 U.S. 302, 325-329; Woodside v. Beckham, 216 U.S. 117. And see
Crawford v. Neal, 144 U.S. 585, 593; Black & White Taxicab Co. v.
Brown & Yellow Taxicab Co., 276 U.S. 518, 524.

BULLARD v. CISCO.
Opinion of the. Court.

179

the nature of the transfer-whether it be real or only a
colorable device to enable the transferrers, through the
favor and name of the transferee, to invoke a federal jurisdiction which they could not invoke in their own right.'
We are of opinion that the purpose of the agreement of
January 3, 1930, was not to create a mere collection
agency, nor to set up a merely colorable device for circumventing restrictions on federal jurisdiction, but to put
the bonds and coupons-the owners of which were numerous and widely scattered-into an express trust-o be
managed and administered by four trustees--for the purpose of conserving, salvaging and adjusting the investment-the municipal debtor having become financially
embarrassed. The depositing owners, or succeeding certificate holders, were to be the cestui6 que trustent or
beneficiaries. The plaintiffs were to be the trustees. Although not called trustees in the agreement, they necessarily had that status by reason of the rights, powers and
duties expressly assigned to them. There was a distinct
declaration that they should have full title to the deposited bonds and coupons, and this was fortified by other
provisions defining the control and power of disposal
which the trustees were to have over them.
Counisel for the defendant inquire-If the committee
were to be the legal owners of the bonds and coupons,
why were they authorized to borrow money and pledge
the bonds and coupons for its repayment, as also to do
other things which legal owners would be free to do
without special authorization. The answer is obvious.
The title and authority confided to the persons constituting the committee were confided to them as trustees,
and not in their personal right, and there was need for
carefully and fully defining the authority; for trustees
are not permitted to go beyond such as is given expressly
or by necessary implication.
'See cases cited in note 5.

I,

/

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

To summarize, we think it apparent from the agreement
as a whole that resort to litigation was not the principal
thing in mind when it was being made, and that what was
intended was to invest the trustees with full title and
such discretionary powers as might enable them to effect a
helpful adjustment of the situation through refinancing,
composition, exchange of securities and other means, including litigation if needed.
As the transfers under which the plaintiffs held the bonds
and coupons were made to them as trustees, were real and
not simply for purposes of collection, and invested them
with the full title, they were entitled, by reason of their
citizenship and of the amount involved, to bring the suit
in the federal court. The beneficiaries were not necessary
parties and their citizenship was immaterial.!
The judgments of both courts below must be reversed
and the cause remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Judgments reversed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 26.

Argued October 17, 18, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. A state statute (c. 62, Acts of Va., 1930) which attempts to
authorize an administrative officer to require railway companies to
eliminate existing grade crossings and substitute overhead crossings
whenever in his opinion this is necessary for the public safety and
convenience, and which provides no notice to or hearing of a company on the existence of such necessity and no means of reviewing
the officer's decision of it, violates the due process of law clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 194.
2. The police power, like other state powers, is subject to the inhibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 196
159 Va. 779; 167 S.E. 578, reversed.
7 Dodge v. Tulleys, 144 U.S. 451, 455-456; Coal Co. v. Blatchford,
11 Wall. 172, 175; Knapp v. Railroad Co., 20 Wall. 117, 123-124.

