QLENN v. FIELD PACKING CO.

177

Statement of the Case.

169

the state court-that it applies only to farmers and dairymen who occasionally, and not as a regular business, transport farm or dairy products for compensation. We cannot say that a classification based on such a use of the
highways is an arbitrary one and thus encounters constitutional objection.
The exemption in favor of those hauling lumber and
logs " from the forests to the shipping points" relates to
a limited class of transportation simply to places of shipment and does not appear to be unreasonable. See
Sproles v. Binford, supra, p. 394.
The judgment of the state court is
Affirmed.
GLENN

ET AL. V.

FIELD PACKING CO.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 541. Argued November 15, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.
Legislation of Kentucky laying a tax of ten cents per pound on all
oleomargarine sold in the State was assailed as invalid under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and also under
the Kentucky Bill of Rights. A permanent injunction was granted
on the latter ground without deciding the federal question. Held:
1. Upon the facts found, and principles laid down by the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky, the statute, although in form a taxing
law, is in reality a prohibition of sale and hence invalid under the
state constitution. P. 178.
2. The decree should be modified to permit the state authorities
to apply for relief in the future should it appear that the statute
has been sustained by the state court as valid tinder the state
constitution, or that by reason of a change in circumstances it
may be regarded as imposing a valid tax. P. 179.
5 F. Supp. 4, modified and affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of perpetual injunction entered

by the District Court of three judges in a suit to restrain
taxing officials from enforcing a tax.

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Per Curiam.

290 U.S.

Mr. S. H. Brown, Assistant Attorney General of Kentucky, with whom Mr. Bailey P. Wootton, Attorney General, and Mr. Francis M. Burke, Assistant Attorney
General, were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. William Marshall Bullitt, with whom Messrs. Leu
T. Wolford and Win. B. Lockhart were on the brief, for
appellee.
PER CUIRIAM.

This suit was brought by respondent, Field Packing
Company, against the State Tax Commission of Kentucky and its members to restrain the enforcement of
that part of chapter 158 of the Acts of the 1932 Session
of the General Assembly of Kentucky which imposed a
tax of 10 cents per pound on all oleomargarine sold within
the State. The statute was assailed as being in violation
of the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the State and
of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States. The District
Court, composed of three judges (28 U.S.C. 380), granted
an interlocutory injunction and on final hearing entered
a decree making the injunction permanent.
The District Court held that the statute, although in
the form of a taxing law, was in reality a prohibition of
the sale of oleomargarine in Kentucky and hence was
invalid under the state constitution. The question presented under the Federal Constitution was not decided.
Siler v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 213 U.S. 175, 191; Hurn v.
Oursler, 289 U.S. 238, 243, 244.
Upon the facts found, the decision appears to be supported by principles laid down by the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky, but, so far as the application of the state
constitution is concerned, the ultimate determination of
the validity of the statute necessarily rests with that
court. Further, a change in circumstances may create a

BULLARD v. CISCO.
177

Syllabus.

situation different from that to which the opinion below
was addressed.
In order to prevent the possibility that the decree may
operate injuriously in the future, the decree will be modified by providing that the members of the State Tax Commission, or that Commission, may apply at any time to
the court below, by bill or otherwise, as they may be
advised, for a further order or decree, in case it shall
appear that the statute has been sustained by the state
court as valid under the state constitution, or that by
reason of a change in circumstances the statute may be

regarded as imposing a valid tax.

See Minnesota Rate

Cases, 230 U.S. 352, at p. 473.
Decree modified as stated in the
opinion and, as modified, affirmed.

BULLARD

ET AL. V. CITY

OF CISCO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 10.

Argued October 12, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

I. The right of a transferee of corporate bonds and coupons, payable
to bearer, to sue in a federal court, notwithstanding a disability
of his transferrers in that regard, turns on the nature of the transfer-whether it'
be real or only a colorable device to enable the
transferrers, through the favor and name of the transferee, to
invoke a federal jurisdiction which they could not invoke in their
own right. P. 187.
2.-Numerous owners of defaulted municipal bonds and coupons,
drawn payable to bearer, transferred them under a "bondholders'
protective agreement" to four persons, styled a "bondholders'
committee," for the purpose of conserving, salvaging and adjusting the investment. To this end the transferees were invested
with full title to the securities and with broad discretionary powers to act by refinancing, composition, exchange of securities and
other means, including litigation. Held:

