MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
326

333

Syllabus.

The appellant, however, insists that, after the conservator took possession, he accepted special trust deposits,
which were segregated and against which the depositors
were allowed to draw, and in conducting this restricted
business the overhead expenses of the institution exceeded
its net income. So long as this condition existed, he says
his position as a creditor was being jeopardized, for the
fund to which he must look for payment was being depleted. But he has not averred that the conservator's
activities will deplete the bank's resources to such extent
that depositors cannot be paid in full; and whatever injury might have been inflicted by a continuation of the
business has now been abated for the future by the Governor's order of June 22 directing liquidation. No present
advantage could accrue to the appellant from the ousting
of the conservator and the appointment of a receiver, who
could only liquidate by the methods obligatory on the
conservator. In this aspect the case is now moot.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

MAY

ET AL.

v. HAMBURG-AMERIKANISCHE

PACKETFAHRT AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Argued November 14, 15, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.
1. In order that a shipowner may be relieved by the Harter Act of
liability for damage resulting from negligent operation or management of the ship and be entitled to general average under shippers'
agreements (Jason clause) based on that statute, it is necessary
that he shall have exercised due diligence to make the vessel Reaworthy, not only at the beginning of the voyage but at any intermediate stage of it (preceding the loss or damage) at which he took
control. P. 342.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

So held where the purpose of taking control was to inspect the
ship after an accident and to determine whether she was in condition to proceed.
2. His ship having been injured en voyage, the master put into a port
of call and notified the owner, a corporation. The owner dispatched its marine superintendent to inspect the ship and determine
what to do; who, after consulting with the master and others, ordered her sent on with tugs. Held that, the owner having thus
intervened and taken, over the management, the continuity of the
voyage'was interrupted and the owner was under a renewed obligation of diligence to make the ship seaworthy then. P. 345.
3. A shipowner who would claim the exemption of § 3 of the Harter
Act has the burden of proving that he exercised due diligence to
make his vessel seaworthy. P. 346.
4. The ship, assumed to have been seaworthy when she left the
United States, damaged her rudder, stock, and bent her rudder
blade five degrees, by an accident on her way up the Weser River,
below Bremen, her first port of discharge. On arriving at that
port with the aid of tugs, she was inspected by the owner through
its marine superintendent, but owing to negligence, the bend in the
blade was not discovered. The whole damage could have been
repaired at Bremen; but, apparently to save time and expense, the
owner decided to send her on to Hamburg, her next port of discharge, 70 miles away. While proceeding down the Weser with the
aid of three tugs, she was grounded, by bad seamanship, in an
attempt to pass another vessel, and it became necessary to lighter
and transship her cargo, and to return her to Bremen for-repairs.
Held (considering evidence as to the effect on navigation of the disablement of the rudder and the bend in its blade), that the owner
had failed to sustain the burden of establishing due diligence in
making the ship seaworthy for the voyage down the Weser. P. 346.
5. A shipowner who has failed to comply with the condition laid
down in the Harter Act (§ 3) and in shippers' agreements for
general average (Jason clause), by not exercising due diligence to
make his vessel seaworthy, remains liable to cargo for damage
caused by faulty navigation, and can not claim contribution under
the agreements; and this without regard to whether there was a
causal relation between the defects of the vessel and the disaster in
question. P. 350.
63 F, (2d) 248, reversed,

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

335

Argument for Respondent.

CERTIORARI* to review the affirmance of a decree in
admiralty, 57 F. (2d) 265, which dismissed five consolidated libels against the respondent ship company. The
libels were filed by May, as assignee of numerous consignees of cargo, who had been required by the respondent
to deposit money as security for general average contributions. The object of the libels was to recover the
moneys upon the ground that they were exacted without
right as a condition to delivery of the goods.

Mr. D. Roger Englar, with whom Messrs. T. Catesby
Jones and Henry N. Longley were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. John W. Griffin, with whom Mr. Charles S. Haight
was on the brief, for respondent.
The requirement of seaworthiness or due diligence
relates to the time of starting the voyage. The Edwin I.
Morrison, 153 U.S. 199, 210.
If a vessel was seaworthy on starting her voyage, her
owners are entitled to the benefits of the Harter Act and
the Jason clause, even though subsequent faults or errors
in management or navigation have made the vessel unseaworthy at sea, at ports of call, or at destination. The
Silvia, 171 U.S. 462; The Newport News, 199 Fed. 968;
The Carisbrook, 247 Fed. 583; The Steel Navigator, 23
Fed. 590; Jay Wai Nam v. Anglo-American Oil Co., 202
Fed. 822; United States v. New York & 0. S. S. Co., 216
Fed. 61; The Milwaukee Bridge, 26 F. (2d) 327; The
Guadeloupe, 92 Fed. 670; The Wildcroft, 201 U.S. 378;
The Indrani, 177 Fed. 914.
When a vessel reaches an intermediate port in an unseaworthy condition and, because of insufficient inspection, she sails with that condition unremedied, the fault
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

290 U.S.

or error is in the management, for which the shipowner
is not liable. The Guadeloupe, 92 Fed. 670; United
States v. New York & 0. S. S. Co., 216 Fed. 61; The
Milwaukee Bridge, 26 F. (2d) 327.
It is important to observe that this is not a case of
voyage in stages. There are cases where a vessel sails
without being seaworthy for the entire voyage-for instance, not having sufficient fuel to carry her to final destination-but where she is seaworthy to proceed to the
first port of call, at which the deficiency in fuel, etc., is to
be made good. In such cases of voyage in stages, the
failure to remedy at a port of call a deficiency which
existed when the vessel originally sailed, relates back to
the original sailing, and such a vessel has not complied
with the terms of the Harter Act. The Willdomino, 300
Fed. 5, 11, 12; Carver, Carriage by Sea, 7th ed., § 19-B;
The Steel Navigator, 23 F. (2d) 590, 592.
The Isis was in fact seaworthy and fit to proceed, when
she sailed from Bremen. Seaworthy means, not that
the vessel is perfect, but that she is reasonably fit
for the service which she is to perform. The Silvia, 171
U.S. 462, 464; The Marlborough, 47 Fed. 667, 670; McCaldin v. Cargo of Lumber, 198 Fed. 328, 329. See also:
The Titania, 19 Fed. 101; Hamilton v. United States,
268 Fed. 15; Brick v. Long Island R. Co., 245 N.Y. 222;
Bradley v. Federal Steam Nay. Co., 24 Lloyd's List Rep.
446; affd., H.L., 17 Asp. M.C. 265.
The test of seaworthiness varies with the service to be
performed. A ship may be seaworthy to load cargo, or
to lie at anchor with it on board, when she is not seaworthy to sail. McLanahan v. Universal Ins. Co., 1 Pet.
170, 184. She may be seaworthy for one voyage but not
for another.
So she may be perfectly seaworthy to proceed from
Bremen to Hamburg with the assistance of tugs, when
she might not be fit to go unaided, or to cross the At-

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

337

Argument for Respondent.

lantic. The question is simply, had she the degree of
fitness which a reasonable owner would require for the
particular thing which she was to do?
The alleged bend in the rudder, if it existed, was immaterial, as found by both courts below.
The rudder blade was carefully inspected before the
Isis left Bremen and was found to be straight. It was
properly lashed and secured. The Isis was in good condition to proceed and the tugs were of ample power.
The navigation, up to the time of the negligence which
caused her stranding, proves that she was perfectly fit to
proceed. The decision to send her with tugs was a proper
one.
There was no "intervention" by the shipowner which
made § 3 of the Harter Act or the Jason clause inapplicable to the pilot's error in navigation. The inspection
of the Isis at Bremen and the decision to send her with
tugs were acts of the servants of the respondent. The
decision was made by Reichenbacher, the marine superintendent, in consultation with the captain. The respondent's only actions were (1) sending Reichenbacher
to consult with the master; (2) making inquiry through
its insurance department to see whether the underwriters
had any objection to carrying out the plan tentatively
decided on by Reichenbacher and the master. Cf. The
Styria, 186 U.S. 1, 20.
No case has ever held that the shipowner is absolutely
responsible for the correctness of such a decision as is
here involved, at an intermediate port. The very fact
that, if made by the master, such an error would be
excused under the Harter Act, shows that the owner is
not absolutely responsible. Therefore, it is sufficient if
a competent man is employed to examine into the case
and to decide on the procedure. His error is an error in
management. In the case of a corporation, the act of
such a servant is not the personal act of the owner, unless

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

290 U.S.

the representative is one of the managing officers of the
corporation, which Reichenbacher, of course, was not.
The analogy of the Limitation Acts shows that, if a
competent representative has been employed by the
owner to make an inspection, the default of that representative is not the personal default of the owner. The
Annie Faxon, 75 Fed. 312; Quinlan v. Pew, 56 Fed. 111.
Even if there had been intervention by the shipowner
at the port of call, errors in management would still be
within the Harter Act and the Jason clause. That Act
is merely one of the statutes regulating the liability of
shipowners and light is thrown on its interpretation by
a consideration of other similar acts, such as the Fire
Statute and the General Limitation Act.
There is no justification for saying that an error in
management by the owner at a port of call destroys the
applicability of the Harter Act in respect to. all mattershowever disconnected-arising at any later period of the
voyage. If his negligence had caused no damage, he
would not be liable. Cf. The Malcolm Baxter, Jr., 277
U.S. 323; The Francis Wright, 105 U.S. 381, 387; Union
Ins. Co. v. Smith, 124 U.S. 405, 427.
Unseaworthiness or lack of diligence in some detail
having no causal relation to the accident does not affect
the applicability of § 3 of the Harter Act or of the Jason
clause.
The construction of § 3 advocated by the petitioners
would give absurd results and would in effect nullify the
Act.
It is settled in England that unseaworthiness, even if a
breach of the warranty of seaworthiness, does not render a shipowner liable for damage to cargo, if the damage
was not caused by that unseaworthiness. The Europa,
1908, Pro. Div. 84, 97; Kish v. Taylor, 1912 A.C. 604,
616; Elder, Dempster Co. v. Patterson, 1924 A.C. 522,
536, 549.

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

339

Opinion of the Court.

The law of this country is the same. The Malcolm
Baxter, Jr., 277 U.S. 323, 331; The Jason, 225 U.S. 32, 53.
The Act is an extension, not a limitation, of the shipowner's exemption.
The better authority supports the respondent's contention. It is of course obvious that, under the general
maritime law, breach of a covenant of seaworthiness is
important only in so far as it causes the damage complained of. The Malcolm Baxter, Jr., 277 U.S. 323, 331;
The Turret Crown, 282 Fed. 354, s.c., 297 Fed. 766, 782,
284 id. 439; The Thessaloniki, 267 Fed. 67, 70; Rosenberg v. Atlantic Transport Co., 25 F. (2d) 739, 741; Hartford & N.Y. Transp. Co. v. Rogers & Hubbard, 47 F. (2d)
189, 192; The Elkton, 49 F. (2d) 700; The Spartan, 63 F.
(2d) 251; The Wildcroft, 201 U.S. 378, 387. Distinguishing: The Willdomino, 300 Fed. 5; s.c. 272 U.S. 718;
The River Meander, 209 Fed. 913, overruled in The
Spartan, 63 F. (2d) 251; The St. Paul, 277 Fed. 99; In
re O'Donnell, 26 F. (2d) 334; The R. Lenahan, Jr., 48 F.
(2d) 110; Louis-Dreyfus Co. v. Paterson,43 F. (2d) 824;
Merklen v. Johnson & Higgins, 3 F. Supp. 897; The R. P.
Fitzgerald, 212 Fed. 678; The Indian, 1933 Am. Mar.
Cas. 1342.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the Court.
The assignee of cargo owners filed libels against the respondent, the owner of the " Isis," to recover moneys deposited as security for general average contributions, the
deposit being exacted by the respondent as a condition of
delivery.
The Isis, a vessel of about 7,000 tons, sailed from loading
ports on the Pacific coast with cargo destined for Bremen,
Hamburg and Antwerp. She was then seaworthy in hull
and gear, and fitted in all respects for the intended voyage.
In the Weser River, not far from Bremen, Germany, her
first port of discharge, she stranded by reason of negligent

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

navigation, with damage to her rudder stock and also to
the rudder blade. Aided by tugs she continued up the
river to Bremen, disclosing as she moved a tendency to
sheer to starboard. On arrival at that port, she discharged
her Bremen cargo, and there was then an inspection of the
damage. The rudder stock had been twisted about 45
degrees. To ascertain the condition of the blade, the vessel was put in a drydock and kept there a few hours. The
examiners reported that the blade was intact. In fact the
lower part of it was bent to starboard to the extent of
about five degrees. The inspection was after dark with
the bottom of the rudder still under water. The two
courts below have concurred in a finding that the use of
reasonable care would have caused the bend to be discovered.
The head office of the owner, at Hamburg, was notified
of the mishap to the vessel before she landed at Bremen,
and the marine superintendent was sent to meet her. The
superintendent, Reichenbacher, and the master of the
vessel, Krueger, consulted, along with others, as to what
ought to be done. Bremen had adequate facilities for the
making of complete repairs, but it would have taken about
two weeks to make them. To save time and expense to
the vessel and her cargo, the decision was made to send
her to Hamburg, about seventy miles away, the cargo
still aboard. Before a start was made, the rudder was
lashed amidships so as to be incapable of motion. The
vessel then set forth in the towage of three tugs, one of
them in front, and one on either side. No harm befell for
a distance of about six miles. Then, at or near the junction of the Weser and Lesum Rivers, the pilot in control
changed her course to starboard in order to pass a vessel
coming up. There is a finding that her navigation at this
point was unskilful and negligent in that she was driven
at too high a speed and too close to the edge of the channel. At all events, in passing she made a sheer to star-

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

341

Opinion of the Court.

board which the tugs and her engines were unable to control. She was stranded hard and fast amidships on a sand
spit near the bank.
With the aid of tugs and lighters the vessel and the
cargo were brought back to Bremen, where the new damage was repaired. It was in the course of these repairs
that the bend in the rudder was observed.' In the meantime the entire cargo was transshipped to Antwerp. Before delivery at destination, the respondent made demand
of the consignees that they deposit sums of cash as security
for the payment of general average contributions to the
sacrifices and expenses due to the two strandings. The
bills of lading contain what is known as the Jason clause
(The Jason, 225 U.S. 32, 49) whereby the consignees agree
that if the shipowner has used due diligence to make the
ship seaworthy, the cargo is to be liable in general average
when the sacrifice or expense results from negligent na.vi gation. The form of the clause applicable to nearly all
the shipments is stated in the margin.' For a small part
of the shipments the form is slightly different, but no
point is made that there is any difference of meaning.
1

We have assumed for present purposes that the bend was the

result of the first stranding, and not the second. This is in accordance, it seems, with the opinion of the Court of Appeals. The Commissioner who heard the witnesses, found that the evidence was too
evenly balanced to enable him to make a finding either way. Since
the burden of proof was on the respondent to make out its claim for
exemption, the effect is the same as if the finding were against it.
The Commissioner did find that the bend, if it existed, could have
been discovered by the exercise of reasonable care.
'General Average shall be payable in accordance with York-Antwerp
Rules 1890 and at carrier's option as to matters not therein provided
for in accordance with the laws and customs of the port of New York.
All General Average statements shall be prepared at the vessel's final
port. of discharge or elsewhere at the carrier's optioR, If the carrier
shall have exercised due diligence to make the vessel in all respects
seaworthy and to have her properly manned, equipped and supplied,
it is hereby agreed that in case of danger, damage or disaster resulting

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Under these clauses the consignees do not dispute the
liability of the cargo for general average contributions in
respect of the first stranding. They do dispute the liability in respect of the second. To recover their deposits
to the amount of that excess, they transferred their claims
to an assignee by whom five libels, afterwards consolidated, were filed against the owner. The District Court,
confirming the report of a commissioner, gave judgment
for the defendant, 57 F. (2d) 265. The Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit affirmed, 63 F. (2d) 248, though in
so doing it did not agree with all the findings below. The
libellant, May, joined the stipulators for costs (Indemnity
Insurance Company of North America and Royal Indemnity Company) in a petition to review the decree of
affirmance. A writ of certiorari brings the case here.
1. The first question to be determined is whether the
cargo must contribute to the sacrifices and expenses xesulting from the second stranding if there was a negligent
failure by the shipowner to make the ship seaworthy when
she left her dock at Bremen.
Until the enactment of the Harter Act (Feb. 13, 1893,
c. 105, § 3, 27 Stat. 445; 46 U.S.C., § 192) a shipowner was
not at liberty by any contract with the shipper to rid
himself of liability to the owners of the cargo for damages,
resulting from the negligence of the master or the crew.
Liverpool & G. W. Steam Co. v. Phenix Insurance Co.,
from fault or error in navigation or in the management of the vessel,
or from any latent or other defect in the vessel, or machinery, or
appurtenances, or from unseaworthiness, although existing at the time
of shipment or at the beginning of the voyage (provided the defect or
unseaworthiness was not discoverable by the exercise of due diligence),
the shippers, consignees, or owners of the cargo shall nevertheless pay
salvage and any special charges incurred in respect to the cargo, and
shall contribute with the carrier in General Average to the payment
of any sacrifices,'iosses, or expenses of a General Average nature that
may be made or incurred for the common benefit or to relieve the
adventure from any common peril.

MAY v. HAMBURG ETc. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

343

Opinion of the Court.

129 U.S. 397, 438; The Delaware, 161 U.S. 459, 471; The
Jason, supra, p. 49; The Wilidomino, 300 Fed. 5, 9. Section 3 of the Harter Act' was the grant of a new immunity. Neither the vessel nor her owner was to be liable
thereafter for damage or loss resulting from faults or error§ in navigation or in management, if the owner had
complied with a prescribed condition. The condition was
that he must have exercised due diligence to make the
vessel in all respects seaworthy and properly manned,
equipped and .supplied. If that condition was not fulfilled, there was liability for negligence in accordance with
the ancient rule. Release from liability for negligence
when effected by the act did not mean, however, that an
obligation was laid upon the cargo to contribute to general
average. The Irrawaddy, 171 U.S. 187. To create that
obligation there was need of an agreement. For a time
there was doubt whether such an agreement, if made,
would be consistent with public policy. The doubt was
dispelled by the decision in The Jason, supra. " In our
opinion, so far as the Harter Act has relieved the shipowner from responsibility for the negligence of his master
and crew, it is no longer against the policy of the law for
" Limitation of liability for errors of navigation, dangers of the sea
and acts of God. If the owner of any vessel transporting merchandise
or property to or from any port in the United States of America shall
exercise due diligence to make the said vessel in all respects seaworthy
and properly manned, equipped, and supplied, neither the vessel, her
owner or owners, agent, or charterers, shall become or be held responsible for damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation or
in the management of said vessel nor shall the vessel, her owner or

owners, charterers, agent, or master be held liable for losses arising
from dangers of the sea or other navigable waters, acts of God, or
public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality, or vice of the thing
carried, or from insufficiency of package, or seizure under legal process,
or for loss resulting from any act or omission of the shipper or owner
of the goods, his agent or representative, or from saving or attempting
to save life or property at sea, or from any deviation in rendering
such service."

OCTOBER TERM, 1983.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

him to contract with the cargo-owners for a participation
in general average contribution growing out of such negligence; and since the clause contained in the bills of lading
of the Jason's cargo admits the shipowner to share in the
general average only under circumstances where by the
act he is relieved from responsibility, the provision in
question is valid, and entitles him to contribution under
the circumstances stated." Ibid., p. 55.
The Isis being seaworthy when she broke ground in
the Pacific the cargo was under a duty to contribute to
the expenses of the first stranding, which occurred as the
result of faulty navigation before the arrival of the ship
at Bremen. Neither here nor in the courts below has
there been any contention to the contrary. Whether a
like duty existed in respect of the expensesof the second
stranding is not so easily determined. The only negligence for which immunity is -given by § 3 of the Harter
Act is negligence in the navigation or management of the
ship. The Carib Prince, 170 U.S. 655, 661, 662; International Navigation Co. v. Farr& Bailey Mfg. Co., 181 U.S.
218. If the master of the Isis had acted on his own responsibility at Bremen in sending the vessel on, the fault
would have been negligence in management, or so we may
assume. But that is not what happened. The owner
intervened by its marine superintendent, who was sent
from Hamburg to Bremen to inspect the disabled vessel
and determine what to do. He consulted with the master
and others. The decision in the end was his. This he
tells us very frankly. If reasonable diligence would have
shown that the vessel was unseaworthy when he sent her
on her way, there was something more than an error in
navigation or management on the part of master or of
crew. There was a failure by an owner to fulfill the
condition on which immunity depended.
We do not forget that seaworthiness is determined for
many purposes according to the state of things existing at

MAY v. HAMBURG ETc. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

34

Opinion of the Court.

the beginning of the voyage. This is true of a warranty
of seaworthiness in charter parties or in* contracts of
affreightment. The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U.S. 199,
210; The Caledonia, 43 Fed. 681, 685; 157 U.S. 124, 130;
Earle & Stoddart v. Wilson Line, 287 U.S. 420, 426; McFadden v. Blue Star Line, [1905] 1 K.B. 697, 703. It is
true of the like warranty in contracts of marine insurance.
Union Ins. Co. v. Smith, 124 U.S. 405, 427; Smith v.
Northwestern Fire & Marine Ins. Co., 246 N.Y. 349, 359,
363, 364; 159 N.E. 87. But the provisions of the Harter
Act relieving an owner from liability to the cargo for
errors of management or navigation do not charge him
with a warranty. What they say to him is this, that if
he wishes the immunity he may have it, but only upon
terms. He must do what in him lies by the exertion of due
diligence to make the vessel safe and sound. If the man-agement of the ship is in the hands of master and crew,
he will be relieved of liability for supervening losses, provided only that his own duty has been fulfilled at the beginning. If the term of management is over and the ship
is in his hands again, the duty is renewed.
The question then is when management begins and
ends. Iron .shutters are left open through the negligence
of the crew while the ship is in a heavy sea. Liability for
the damage will not be chargeable to the owner, for this
is a fault of management. The Silvia, 171 U.S. 462.
Upon arrival at a port of call, the master is negligent in
his inspection of the ship or its equipment. Liability for
the damage will not be chargeable to the owner, for this
again is a fault of management. The Steel Navigator,23
F. (2d) 590; The Milwaukee Bridge, 26 F. (2d) 327, 330;
United States v. N. Y. & 0. S.S. Co., 216 Fed. 61, 71; Jay
Wai Nam v. Anglo-American Oil Co., 202 Fed. 822; The
Guadeloupe, 92 Fed. 670. Cf. Carver on Carriage by Sea,
7th ed., § 103e, collating the decisions. Arrived at destination, the engineer omits to close a valve with resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

damage to the cargo. Once more, liability for the damage
will not be chargeable to the owner, for this again is
management. The Wildcroft, 201 U.S. 378. One has
only to sketch these situations in order to perceive the gap
dividing them from that before us here. Here is a case
where master and crew have surrendered their management and have made appeal to the owner to resume control himself. Response to that appeal destroys the continuity of the voyage, as if it were broken into stages. Cf.
Arnould, Marine Insurance, 11th ed., vol. 2, §§ 699, 700,
701; Greenock S.S. Co. v. Maritime Ins. Co., [1903] 2
K.B. 657. An owner intervening in such circumstances
must be diligent in inspection or forfeit his immunity.
Negligence at such a time is not the fault of servants
employed to take the owner's place for the period of a
voyage. It is the fault of the owner personally, exercising his own judgment to determine whether the voyage
shall go on. The Waalhaven, 36 F. (2d) 706, 709.
2. Due diligence being necessary to make the ship seaworthy at Bremen as well as at the Pacific ports, the
second question to be determined is whether due diligence
was used.
The District Court and the Commissioner. found that
the Isis, though crippled when she left the dock at Bremen, was seaworthy with the aid of tugs for the voyage
then before her. Seaworthiness, it is well known, is a relative term. The Sagamore, 300 Fed. 701, 704; Carver,
Carriage by Sea, 7th ed., § 18 and cases cited; Arnould,
Marine Insurance, 11th ed., § 710. The Court of Appeals
held the view, according to our reading of the opinion,
that the vessel with her rudder disabled and defective
was not so fitted for her voyage as to cast upon the cargo
the risk of faults of"navigation.
The respondent, claiming the benefit of a conditional
exemption, has the burden of proof that the condition was
fulfilled. The Southwark, 191 U.S. 1, 12; The Wildcroft,

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

347

Opinion of the Court.

supra, at p. 386. We are ,,nwilling to say in opposition
to the finding of the Court of Appeals that the burden has
been borne. The fact is undisputed that the rudder, being
disabled, was useless as an instrument to control the
movement of the vessel. There is evidence that in addition to being useless it was positively harmful by reason of a bend to starboard. These two defects together
defeat the carrier's endeavor to shift the risk upon the
cargo.
The respondent insists that a vessel may be seaworthy
though she is navigated by tugs. No doubt that is true
where the rudder is capable of use. This is far from saying that the risk to the cargo is not appreciably increased
if the rudder is out of commission and so incapable of giving aid when an emergency arises. There is no need to
go beyond the pages of this record for proof that this is so.
Witnesses for the respondent tell us that a vessel with the
rudder lashed may be towed without risk if the speed of
the tugs is slow, less than seven kilometers an hour. They
admit that the useless rudder becomes a source of danger
if the speed of the tugs is higher, seven kilometers or
more. We turn to the findings of the Commissioner approved by the District Court. From these it appears that
the Isis was proceeding, when she sighted the upbound
steamer, at a speed of more than eight kilometers an hour.
Not only that, but the Commissioner has found that she
was navigated at too high a speed and too close to the
edge of the channel, and that because of these errors she
stranded a second time. The speed and the place would in
all likelihood have been harmless if she had been navigating the river with her steering gear in order. The carrier
sent her forward with her steering gear crippled when
there was opportunity to make it sound. No doubt there
are occasions when owner and master are left without a
choice. The vessel may be disabled at a place where the
making of repairs is impossible or unreasonably difficult.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

In such circumstances she must go her way with such
help as can be gathered. Here no emergency was present
to excuse the decision that was made. The carrier would
have had no difficulty in making the repairs at Bremen.
The risks of navigation that are cast by statute upon the
owners of the cargo are those that remain after the carrier
has done his duty. They do not include risks that would
have been avoided or diminished if the vessel had gone out
with her equipment staunch and sound. A carrier who
chooses for his own purposes to send out a crippled ship
with needless enlargement of the perils of navigation will
not receive exemption at the cost of the owners of the
cargo if the perils thus enlarged have brought the ship
upon the sands. " When the owner accepts cargo in an
unseaworthy ship, though the defect be such as may be
neutralized by care, he imposes on the shipper an added
risk; not merely that his servants may fail, in so far as
she is sound and fit, but that they may neglect those added
precautions which her condition demands. That risk the
statute does not impose upon the shipper; he bears no loss
untilthe owner has done his best to remove all risks except
those inevitable upon the seas." Learned Hand, J., in
The Elkton, 49 F. (2d) 700, 701.
The rudder, however, was not merely useless and disabled. By reason of the bend of five degrees, it was positively harmful at least to some extent. Reichenbacher,
the marine superintendent, stated in his testimony that
he would never have let the vessel leave the dock at
Bremen if he had known of the bend. Krueger, the master, testified to the same effect. The Commissioner put
aside these admissions with the remark that the witnesses
" overdid an effort to establish a character for caution."
He preferred to accept the testimony of Captain Davis, a
tried and efficient wreckmaster in the Harbor of New
York, Who testified as an expert without personal experience of the navigation of the Weser. Captain Davis

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

349

Opinion of the Court.

stated that a bend of fifteen degrees would surely have
been dangerous, that there would probably have been
danger in a bend of ten degrees, but that a bend of five
degrees would not prevent the ship from being under command, particularly if the ship was going at a low speed.
At the same time he admitted that even a five degree bend
would affect the ship to some extent, and that it would be
very importknt and valuable to know of its existence.
Such testimony is far from convincing in the face of the
admissions of the superintendent and the master who had
every motive to present the case in the way most helpful
to the owner. The argument is pressed that if the bend
of five degrees had a tendency to sheer the ship to starboard, the movement should have been felt during the six
miles traveled before the second stranding. We follow the
courts below in their finding that the sheering was not
observed, though there is evidence to the contrary. Even
so, the movement may have been so counteracted by the
engines of the vessel and the tugs that little heed was
given it. In any event the significant fact remains that
there is no finding by any court that the bend in the rudder did not affect the steering of the Isis at the moment
of the stranding. The Commissioner found that the vessel did not have any "marked tendency to sheer," and
that if such a tendency existed, the power of her engines
and the tugs was adequate to correct it. The Circuit
Court of Appeals held that the bend would not affect the
steering "except t& a slight extent."
We think the cumulative effect of the evidence that
the rudder was disabled and that there was a bend of five
degrees is to exact of us a holding that the respondent has
failed to sustain the burden of establishing due diligence
-in making the ship seaworthy for her voyage down the
Weser.
3. If due diligence was not used in creating a seaworthy
condition, the third question to be determined is the need

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 Us.

of a causal relation between the defect and the ensuing
loss.
The District Court and the Court of Appeals, though
at odds with each other as to the seaworthy condition of
the vessel when it left the dock at Bremen, are at one in
finding that the cause of the stranding was faulty navigation. Cf. Orient Ins. Co. v. Adams, 123 U.S. 67, 72;
Queen Ins. Co. v. Globe Ins. Co., 263 U.S. 487, 492; The
Manitoba, 104 Fed. 145, 154, 155.
Whether a shipowner who negligently omits to makehis
vessel seaworthy may have the benefit, none the less, of
§ 3 of the Harter Act if there is no causal relation between
the defect and the disaster is a question as to which
the circuit courts of appeals in different circuits, and
even at times in the same circuit, are divided into opposing camps, though the discord in many instances is the
outcome of dicta rather than decisions.
Favoring the view that the benefit of the act is lost
without reference to any causal relation between the defect and. the disaster are The Elkton, 8upra, p. 701 (Second Circuit); Louis Dreyfus & Co. v. Paterson Steamships, Ltd., 67 F. (2d) 331 (Second Circuit); The Willdomino, 300 Fed. 5, 10, 11 (Third Circuit), affirmed on
other groisnds in 272 U.S. 718; The R. P. Fitzgerald,
212 Fed. 678 (Sixth Circuit); also the following decisions
of District Courts: The River Meander, 209 Fed. 931,
937; Merklen v. Johnson & Higgins, 3 F.Supp. 897;
The Indien; 1933 American Maritime Cases, 1342. Favoring the other view are The Spartan (Hartford & N. Y.
TransportationCo. v. Rogers & HubbardCo.), 47 F. (2d)
189, 192 (Second Circuit); Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v.
Atlantic Transport Co., 25 F. (2d) 739 (D.C.Cal.); and
cf. The Turret Crown, 284 Fed. 439, 444, 445 (Fourth
Cirouit); The Thessaloniki, 267 Fed. 67, 70 (Second
Circuit).

MAY v. HAMBURG ETc. GESELLSCHAFT. 351
333

Opinion of the Court.

We think the rulings and dicta of the cases in the first
group are supported by the better reasons.
The statute, aided by the contraet, gives the shipowner
a privilege upon his compliance with a condition. If he
would have the benefit of the privilege, he must take it
with the attendant burden. There would be no end to
complications and embarrassments if the courts were to
embark upon an inquiry as to the tendency of an unseaworthy defect to aggravate the risk of careless navigation.
Little can be added on this point to what has been said
so well by Learned Hand, J., in a case already cited. The
Elkton, supra. The barrier of the staju.te would be sufficient, if it stood alone, to overcome the claim of privilege.
It is reinforced, however, by the barrier of contract. The
Harter Act, as we have seen, would not impose upon the
cargo a duty to share in general average contribution if
the Jason clause or an equivalent were not embodied in
the bill of lading or contract of affreightment. The owners
of this cargo have stated the conditions on which they are
willing to come in and pay their share of the expenses. A
court should be very sure that the literal meaning is not
the true one before subtracting from conditions that are
clear upon their face.
We are told that the provisions of the Harter Act will
lead to absurdity and hardship if an unseaworthy condition is to take away from the carrier an exemption from
liability for the negligence of its servants in the management of the vessel without a causal relation between the
defect and the disaster. Extreme illustrations are set before us, as where there is a loose rivet in the deck, or a
crack in a hatch cover, or one less messboy than required.
Seaworthiness of the vessel becomes, it is said, a whimsical
condition if exemption is lost through defects so unsubstantial. We assume for present purposes that the nature of the defects brought forward as illustrations is

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

sufficient to condemn a vessel as unfitted for her voyage.
Even if that be so, the argument for the respondent loses
sight of the value of a uniform rule that will put an end
to controversy where the causal relation is uncertain or
disputed. Particularly is there need of such a test where
the carrier asks to be relieved from lability for conduct
which without the benefit of the statute would be an actionable wrong. The maritime law abounds in illustrations of the forfeiture of a right or the loss of a contract
by reason of the unseaworthiness of a vessel, though the
unseaworthy feature is unrelated to the loss. The law
reads into a voyage policy of insurance a warranty that
the vessel shall be seaworthy for the purpose of the
voyage. There are many cases to the effect that irrespective of any relation of cause and effect, the breach
of the warranty will vitiate the policy. What is implied
is a condition, and not merely a covenant, just as here
there is not a covenant, but a condition of exemption.
See Smith v. Northwestern Fire & Marine Ins. Co., supra,
at p. 363, summarizing the following decisions. Thus, in
DeHahn v. Hartley (1786, 1 T.R. 343; affd., 1787, 2 T.R.
186, n) a vessel was insured on a slaving voyage, " at and
from Africa to her port or ports of discharge in the British
West Indies," and a memorandum was inserted in the
margin of the policy that the vessel had "sailed from
Liverpool with fourteen six-pounders, swivels, small arms
and fifty hands or upwards coppersheathed." It appeared
that the ship had actually sailed from Liverpool with only
forty-six men instead of fifty, but that within twelve
hours of leaving Liverpool she had taken on board at
Beaumaris six additional hands; and evidence was also
given that the ship between Liverpool and Beaumaris
was quite as safe with forty-six men as she would have
been with fifty. The court unanimously held that the
policy was void in toto. Arnould, Marine Ins., § 633.
Again in Forshaw v. Chabert (1821, 3 Brod. & B. 158)

MAY v. HAMBURG ETC. GESELLSCHAFT.
333

353

Opinion of the Court.

a policy was effected on a voyage "at and from Cuba
to Liverpool." The captain having lost some of his outward crew by sickness and desertion in Cuba, and finding it impossible there to engage ten men, his proper complement for Liverpool, sailed from Cuba with only eight
men engaged for Liverpool, and two for Montego Bay
(Jamaica), where he touched and landed the two men,
and whence having procured others to supply their place,
he proceeded on his voyage to-Liverpool. The court held
(inter alia) that the ship was not seaworthy when she
sailed from Cuba for a voyage to Liverpool, as she ought
then to have had on board a full complement of men engaged for the whole voyage. Arnould, Marine Ins., § 723.
Again in Queen Marine Ins. Co. v. Commercial Bank of
Canada (1870, L.R. 3 P.C. 234) a vessel, covered by a
voyage policy, left port with a defective boiler. She
stopped at an intermediate port where the boiler was repaired. A loss occurred thereafter. The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council held, after a full review of the
authorities, that the underwriters were discharged by force
of the breach of warranty at the inception of the voyage. 4
The distinction is apparent between suits such as this
where the unseaworthiness of a vessel is merely a condition of exemption and suits where the unseaworthiness of
a vessel is the basis of a suit for damages. In cases of the
latter order there can be no recovery of damages in the
absence of a causal relation between the loss and the de'Compare the decisions discharging insurers where there has been a
wrongful deviation, irrespective of resulting damage: Fernandez v.
Great Western Ins. Co., 48 N.Y. 57; Snyder v. Atlantic M. Ins. Co.,
95 N.Y. 196; Burgess v. Eq. Ins. Co., 126 Mass. 70; and relieving
cargo owners in like circumstances from exemptions in bills of lading
that would otherwise be binding: Joseph Thorley, Ltd. v. Orchis S.S.
Co., Ltd., [1907] 1 K.B. 660; Foscolo Mango & Co., Ltd. v. Stag Line,
Ltd., [1931] 2 K.B. 48; affd. sub nom. Stag Line, Ltd. v. Foscolo,
Mango & Co., Ltd., [1932] A.C. 328. The Malcolm Baxter, Jr., 277
U.S. 323, 332.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

feet. The Malcolm Baxter, Jr., 277 U.S. 323, 333; The
Francis Wright, 105 U.S. 381, 387. "If the unseaworthiness was not the proxim)te cause of the loss, it is not contended the vessel can be, charged with damages." The
Francis Wright, supra. Unseaworthiness viewed as a condition of exemption stands upon a different footing from
unseaworthiness viewed as the subject of a covenant.
We are thus brought to the conclusion that the shipowner was not relieved by the Harter Act from the negligence of the pilot in the navigation of the vessel, and that
for like reasons the cargo owners are not chargeable with
general average contributions.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
think that the court below was right and that its decree
should be affirmed.

TROTTER, GUARDIAN, v. TENNESSEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 79.

Argued November 14, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. Exemptions from taxation are not to be enlarged by implication
if doubts are nicely balanced. P. 356.
2. The exemption from taxation provided by § 22 of the World
War Veterans Act, in respect to "compensation, insurance and
maintenance and support allowance payable," does not extend to
lands purchased with moneys received from the United States by
a veteran as compensation and insurance benefits. P. 356.
3. The exemption provided by § 22 is not enlarged in this case by
reason of payment having been made to a guardian of the veteran.
Spicer v. Smith, 288 U.S. 430. P. 357.
165 Tenn. 519; 57 S.W. (2d) 455, affirmed.

