MILLER v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
Syllabus.

202

judgment of another state from providing for the future
maintenance and support of a destitute child domiciled
within its own borders, out of the property of her father,
also located there. Here the Georgia decree did not end
the relationship of parent and child, as a decree of divorce
may end the marriage relationship. Had the infant continued to reside in Georgia, and had she sought in the
courts of South Carolina to compel the application of
property of her father, found there, to her further maintenance and support, full faith and credit to the Georgia
decree applied to its own domiciled resident might have
required the denial of any relief. Cf. Bates v. Bodie, 245
U.S. 520; Thompson v. Thompson, 226 U.S. 551. But
when she became a domiciled resident of South Carolina, a
new interest came into being,-the interest of the State of
South Carolina as a measure of self-preservation to secure
the adequate protection and maintenance of helpless members of its own community and its prospective citizens.
That interest was distinct from any which Georgia could
conclusively regulate or control by its judgment, even
though rendered while the child was domiciled in Georgia.
The present decision extends the operation of the full faith
and credit clause beyond its proper function of affording
protection to the domestic interests of Georgia and makes
it an instrument for encroachment by Georgia upon the
domestic concerns of South Carolina.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO concurs in this opinion.

MILLER, ADMINISTRATOR, v. UNION PACIFIC
R. CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued November 10, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. A driver of an automobile who, at a railroad crossing which is
familiar to him and from his approach to which oncoming trains

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

.

290 U.S.

can plainly be seen for a distance of 2,000 feet, either fails to
look, or takes a chance on beating the train over the crossing, is
guilty of contributory negligence as matter of law; and, in an
action for damages for his death, the trial court properly may
take the case from the jury and dismiss the petition on the merits
with prejudice. P. 231.
2. The doctrine that the negligence of the driver of a vehicle is
imputed to a passenger has been abandoned in England, rejected
by the great weight of authority in this country, and distinctly
repudiated by this Court. P. 231.
3. Whether a right of recovery may be denied on the ground of contributory negligence in the case of a passenger or guest who suffers
personal injury or death in a public or private conveyance over
the movement of which he has no control, depends upon his own
failure to exercise a proper degree of care, and not upon that of
the driver. This applies as well where the passenger is the wife
of the driver as in other cases. P. 232.
4. The rule in the federal courts is settled that the burden of proving
contributory negligence rests upon the defendant. P. 232.
"5. Where contributory negligence is established by the plaintiff's own
evidence, the defendant may have the benefit of it. P. 232.
6. Where there is no evidence which speaks one way or the other
with respect to contributory negligence of a decedent, the presumption is that there was no such negligence. P. 233.
7. Where the evidence establishes that an accident to an automobile
at a railroad crossing, killing both the driver and his passenger,
was due to the concurrent negligence of the railroad in operating
its train at an unusual and unlawful speed and without sounding
whistle, and of the driver of the automobile in attempting to
cross the track, and where there is no evidence of how the passenger
acted in the emergency, the passenger cannot be held guilty of
contributory negligence as a matter -of law, nor can -his death
be attributed to the negligence of- the driver alone as the sole
proximate cause. P. 233.
8. Where injury is caused by the concurring negligence of the defendant and a third person, the defendant is liable to the same
extent as though ithad been caused by his negligence alone. P. 236.
63 F. (2d) 574, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment affirming a judgment dismissing on the merits with prejudice an 'action
against the railroad company for deaths by wrongful act.
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

MILLER v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
227

Argument for Respondent.

The case had been removed from a state court on the
ground of diversity of citizenship.
Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell, with whom Mr. William
Buchholz was on the brief, for petitioner.
The wife was not guilty of contributory negligence as
a matter of law. Southern Pacific Co. v. Wright, 248 Fed.
261; Trenholm v. Southern Pacific Co., 8 F. (2d) 452;
Southern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Stephens, 24 F. (2d) 182;
Chicago & E. I. Ry. Co. v. Divine, 39 F. (2d) 537. Bradley v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 288 Fed. 484, conflicts with
the weight of authority.
The liability of the railroad company for the death of
the guest or passenger in an automobile in cases of this
character is for the jury. Baker v. Lehigh Valley R. Co.,
248 N.Y. 131.
Mr. Charles V. Garnett, with whom Messrs. C. A.
Magaw, I. N. Watson, Henry N. Ess, and Paul V. Barnett were on the brief, for respondent.
The driver was guilty of contributory negligence as a
matter of law. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Goodman,
275 U.S. 66; Railroad Co. v. Houston, 95 U.S. 697; Bradley v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 288 Fed. 484.
The wife was also guilty of contributory negligence as
a matter of law. It was her affirmative duty to maintain
a lookout for approaching trains, and to give timely and
effective warning of danger to her husband. This she
failed to do. Bradley v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 288 Fed.
484; Chicago & E. I. Ry. Co. v. Sellars, 5 F. (2d) 31;
Kutchma v. Railway Co., 23 F. (2d) 183; Parramorev.
Railroad Co., 5 F. (2d) 912; Noble v. Railway 'Co., 298
Fed. 381; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. McNulty, 285
Fed. 97; Davis v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 159 Fed.
10; Phillips v. Davis, 3 F. (2d) 798; Hall v. Railway Co.,
244 Fed. 104; Brommer v. Railway Co., 179 Fed. 577;
Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. LeBarr, 265 Fed. 129;

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Southern Ry. Co. v. Priester,289 Fed. 945; Pennington
v. Southern Ry. Co., 61 F. (2d) 399; Fluckey v. Southern
Ry. Co., 242 Fed. 468; Summers v. Denver Tramway Co.,
43 F. (2d) 286; Garrett v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 47 F.
(2d) 10; Little v. Hackett, 116 U.S. 366.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In December, 1927, decedents, Marcus Andlauer and his
wife Ellanore Andlauer, while attempting to cross respondent's railroad track at a highway intersection within a
few feet of the easterly boundary line of the City of St.
Marys, Kansas, were killed as the result of a collision between a train of respondent and the automobile in which
they were riding. The wife sat in the front seat with her
husband, who was driving.. The automobile had been
driven westerly along a highway parallel to the railroad
track to a point about seventy-one feet south of the railroad track, where it was turned into a road running northerly across the track, and driven thence without change of
speed at the rate of twelve or fifteen miles per hour until
the accident. The day was clear. The crossing was a
familiar one to decedents; and, from the point where the
automobile was turned to a point beyond the crossing,
trains from the east were in plain view for a distance of
two thousand feet. The train which caused the accident
came from the east at a speed of from fifty to sixty miles
an hour. There was evidence that the whistle was not
sounded; that the train was about an hour late; that it
usually slowed down in approaching the crossing to about
twenty-five or thirty miles per hour; and that a city ordinance limited the speed of trains within the city to twenty
miles per hour. The rear wheels of the automobile were
on or very near the south rail of the track when the collision occurred.

MILLER v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
227

231

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court took the case from the jhury and dismissed the petition on the merits with prejudice, holding
that both decedents were guilty of contributory negligence as matter of law. This judgment the circuit court
of appeals affirmed. 63 F. (2d) 574.
So far as the case for the death of the husband is concerned, we agree with the courts below. C6ntributory
negligence on his part was clearly established under the
general rule frequently stated by this court. We need
do no more than refer to the case of Northern Pacific R.
Co. v. Freeman, 174 U.S. 379, where a person killed by a
moving train at a railroad crossing well known to him,
with the coming train in full view which he could have
seen while forty feet distant from the track if he had
looked, was held guilty of contributory negligence because,
putting aside the oral testimony, these facts demonstrated
that either he did not look or took the chance of crossing
before the train reached him. "When it appears," the
court said (pp. 383-384), "that if proper precautions
were taken they could not have failed to prove effectual,
the court has no right to assume, especially in face of all
the oral testimony, that such precautions were taken. ...
Judging from the common experience of men, there can
be but one plausible solution of the problem how the collision occurred. He did not look; or if he looked, he did
not heed the warning, and took the chance of crossing the
track before the train could reach him. In either case he
was clearly guilty of contributory negligence." Authority
for this view was found especially in RailroadCo. v. Houston, 95 U.S. 697, 702.
The case for the death of the wife is controlled by different considerations. Although it was at one time ruled
in England-Thorogood v. Bryan, 8 C.B. 115 (1849)that the negligence of the driver of a vehicle is imputed
to a passenger, that doctrine, much criticized and finally

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

abandoned in England (The Bernina, 12 Pro. Div. 58),
was never generally accepted in this country. Followed
by a few state decisions, it was rejected by the great
weight of American authority and, after full consideration, distinctly repudiated by this Court. Little v.
Hackett, 116 U.S. 366. And see Union Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Lapsley, 51 Fed. 174. Whether a passenger or guest in a
public or private conveyance, having no control over its
movement, may be denied a right of recovery for personal
injury or death on the ground of contributory negligence,
depends upon his own failure to exercise a proper degree
of care, and not upon that of the driver. This is true
where the passenger is the wife of the driver as in other
cases. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Fanning, 42 F.
(2d) 799, 803. And, while the state decisions are not uniform on the subject, the federal rule is definitely settled
that the burden of proving such contributory negligence
rests, in all cases, upon the defendant, Railroad Co. v.
Gladmon, 15 Wall. 401, 406-407; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Volk, 151 U.S. 73, 77-78; Central Vermont Ry. v.
White, 238 U.S. 507, 512, although, if such negligence be
established by plaintiff's evidence, it hardly seems necessary to add, defendant may have the benefit of it. Washington & Georgetoum R. Co. v. Harmon, 147 U.S. 571,
580-581; Indianapolis& St. L. R. Co. v. Horst, 93 U.S.
291, 298-299.
In the present case, as already appears, the burden was
sustained as to the husband. It was not sustained as to
the wife. As to her, there is an enLire absence of evidence on the point. Whatever duty rested upon her under
the circumstances, for aught that appears to the contrary,
may have been fully discharged. It properly cannot be
said from anything shown by the record before us that
she did not maintain a careful lookout for the train, or
that, if aware of its approach, she did not warn her husband or urge him to stop before entering upon the cross-

MILLER v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
227

Opinion of the Court.

ing. Want of due care for her own safety must be proved;
it cannot be presumed. The presumption is the other
way. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gentry, 163 U.S. 353,
366; Baltimore & Potomac R. Co. v. Landrigan, 191 U.S.
461, 473-474; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Toops, 28.1 U.S.
351, 356. If, as here, there be no evidence which speaks
one way or the other with respect to contributory negligence of the person killed, it is presumed that there was
no such negligence. Looney v. Metropolitan R. Co., 200
U.S. 480, 488.
Here the wife was not in control of the movement of
the automobile. She could only note the danger, warn
her husband, and urge him to stop. She may have done
so, and he, misjudging the situation or taking the chance,
have gone forward nevertheless. Or she may have seen
the approaching train, observed that her husband was also
aware of the fact and, relying upon her knowledge of his
habits and character, trusted him, with good reason until
it became too late to interfere, to do whatever was necessary to avoid the danger. The applicable rule is found in
Southern Pac. Co. v. Wright, 248 Fed. 261, 264. That was
a case where one Wright was riding in a motor truck with
an experienced chauffeur as driver. A collision occurred
between the truck and a train, which resulted in Wright's
death. It did not appear whether Wright saw the train
before it was seen by the chauffeur. The court said that
he might have seen it and yet reasonably remained silent
on the assumption that, the view being unobstructed, the
chauffeur also saw it and was governing himself accordingly. "So that up to the very time that the truck approached the main track he [Wright] may have reasonably supposed that Tucker [the chauffeur] would stop the
car in tine to avoid a collision. And when he realized
that he was going to attempt to cross ahead of the train,
what could, or should, he have done? Who can now say as
a matter of law? Cry out? He might thus have con-

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

fused and disconcerted the driver, and an instant of indecision in such a case may be fatal. Here, with the truck a
half a second sooner or the train a half a second later, the
tragedy would not have happened. It must be borne in
mind that there was no time to reflect or reason. If the
train was running only 30 miles an hour-the speed was
probably greater-it was only about 30 seconds from the
time it came into view a quarter of a mile away until it
crashed into the truck." Accordingly, it was held that the
question of Wright's contributory negligence was not one
of law but one of fact for the jury.
To the same effect, see, Chicago & E. I. Ry. Co. v. Divine, 39 F. (2d) 537, 539; Trenholm v. Southern Pac.
Co., 8 F. (2d) 452; Baker v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 248
N.Y. 131, 135-136; 161 N.E. 445; Nelson v. Nygren, 259
N.Y. 71, 75; 181 N.E. 52; Crough v. New York Central R.
Co., 260 N.Y. 227, 232; 183 N.E. 372. In the Baker case,
supra, the New York court, holding that the question of
the contributory negligence of an automobile passenger
killed in a train collision was for the jury and not the
court, said:
"Believing the car was about to stop, he may have
thought that warning would be needless, and discovering
too late that the car was going on, he may have thought
that interference would be dangerous. These and like
possibilities were to be estimated by the triers of the facts.
They make it impossible to deal with the issue as a question for the court."
Bradley v. Missouri Pac. R. Co., 288 Fed. 484, is cited
by respondent to the contrary; but to the extent that it
conflicts with the view we have expressed, that case is
disapproved.
But the argument is advanced that even though the
railroad company be guilty of negligence and the wife
be absolved from the charge of contributory negligence,

MILLER v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
227

Opinion of the Court.

nevertheless the railroad company is not liable, because,
under the circumstances here disclosed, the proximate
cause of the wife's death was not its negligence, but the
negligence of the husband in driving upon the track in
the face of the approaching train. The validity of this
contention depends altogether upon whether the negligence of the husband constituted an intervening cause
which had the effect of turning aside the course of events
set in motion by the company, and in and of itself producing the actionable result. The evidence here does
not present that situation. Instead of a remote cause
and a separate intervening, self-sufficient, proximate
cause, we have here concurrent acts, co6perating to produce the result. As this Court pointed out in Washington
& Georgetown R. Co. v. Hickey, 166 U.S. 521, 525, the
vice of the argument consists in the attempt to separate
into two distinct causes (remote and proximate) what
in reality is but one continuous cause-that is to say, an
attempt to separate two inseparable negligent acts which,
uniting to produce the result, constituted mutually contributing acts of negligence on the part of the railroad
company and the driver of the automobile.
The negligence sought to be established against the
railroad company was not only failure to sound the whistle, but operation of the train at a rate of speed dangerous
and unusual, and which necessarily would bring the train
into the city at a speed far beyond the limit prescribed by
the city ordinance. Assuming, upon these facts, that a
finding by the jury that the train was negligently operated
would be justified, such negligence continued without interruption down to the moment of the accident. The same
is equally true in respect of the contributory negligence of
the driver of the automobile. The result, therefore, is that
the contributory negligence of the driver did not interrupt
the sequence of events set in motion by the negligepce of

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

the railroad company or insulate them from the accident,
but concurred therewith so as to constitute in point of time
and in effect what was essentially one transaction.
The rule is settled by innumerable authorities that if injury be caused by the concurring negligence of the defendant and a third person, the defendant is liable to the
same extent as though it had been caused by his negligence
alone. ' It is no defense for a wrongdoer that a third party
shared the guilt of the same wrongful act, nor can he
escape liability for the damages he has caused on the
ground that the wrongful act of a third party contributed
to the injury." Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Holloway,
114 Fed. 458, 461-462. See also Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v.
Cummings, 106 U.S. 700, 702; Gila Valley, G. & N. Ry. Co.
v. Lyon, 203 U.S. 465,473; lUnion Par.Ry. Co. v. Callaghan,
56 Fed. 988, 993; Chicago,R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Sutton, 63
Fed. 394, 995; Chicago, St. P. & K. C. Ry. Co. v. Chambers,
68 Fed. 148, 153; Shugart v. Atlanta, K. & N. Ry., 133 Fed.
505, 510-511; Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Hoffman, 208 Fed. 221, 227; Memphis Consol. Gas & Electric
Co. v. Creighton, 183 Fed. 552, 555.
The case last cited is peculiarly apposite. There the
owner of a hous3, being unable to shut off the gas, telephoned the gas company asking that someone be sent to
look after the matter. There being some delay, the owner,
in attempting to find the leak, lighted a match, which
caused an explosion of accumulated gas. Creighton was
injured thereby and brought suit against the gas company-. That company insisted that the proximate cause
of the injury was the act of the owner in bringing the
lighted match in contact with the gas. The court in
rejecting the claim said:
"This might be so if it had been a supervening cause
which rendered the first cause inoperative. The truth of
the matter is that the causes of the injury were concurrent. The accumulation of the gas was one; the lighted

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
227

Decree.

match was the other. The effect of the former had not
ceased, but co-operated with that of the other in effecting
the injury. In such case an inquiry about the proximate
cause is not pertinent, for both are liable."
The court below erred in holding as matter of law that
the wife was guilty of contributory negligence and, therefore, its judgment cannot stand.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the district
court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK CITY.
No. 12, original. Argued November 6, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.
Decree (1) modifying the decree heretofore entered (284 U.S. 585),
by extending the effective date; (2) adding provisions for enforcement; (3) adjudging defendant liable for amounts expended by
plaintiff's municipal subdivisions to prevent or lessen defilement or
pollution of waters and shores of New Jersey; and (4) providing
that the costs, the expenses incurred by the special master, and
his compensation, shall be taxed against defendant.

HEARING, after report of Special Master, upon plaintiff's petition for enforcement of the final decree herein
and deferidant's answer and petition for an extension of
time.
Mr. Duane E. Minard, with whom Mr. William A.
Stevens, Attorney General of New Jersey, was on the
brief, for plaintiff:
Mr. Arthur J. W. Hilly, Corporation Counsel of New
York City, with whom Messrs. Thomas W. A. Crowe and
J. Joseph Lilly were on the brief, for defendant.
announced by MR. JUSTICE BUTLER.
Leave having been granted, 279 U.S. 823, the State of
New Jersey, May 20, 1929, filed its bill of complaint
against the City of New York and prayed that the City
be enjoined from dumping garbage or other noxious,
DECREE,

