HICKLIN v. CONEY.
163

Syllabus.

their conception of the demands of justice and practicality. Miller v. Robertson, 266 U.S. 243, 258. "The
disinclination to allow interest on claim of uncertain
amount seems based on practice rather than theoretical
grounds." -Williston on Contracts, vol. III, ยง 1413.
Whether there shall be a definite rule is a matter within
the legislative discretion, as is that of providing for interest upon judgments. Morley v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry.
Co., 146 U.S. 162, 168; Missouri & Arkansas Co. v.
Sebastian County, 249 U.S. 170, 173.
The decisive point in the instant case is that the provision for the enlarged remedy was consistent with the
substantial rights of the parties under their contract and
cannot be regarded as an unreasonable exercise of legislative power.
Judgment affirmed.
HICKLIN ET AL. V. CONEY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 94.

Argued November 17, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. A State may make reasonable regulations as to the use of its
highways by private contract carriers, interstate or intrastate,
requiring them to pay reasonable license fees and to provide insurance to compensate third persons for injuries caused by negligent
operations of such carriers. P. 171.
2. The South Carolina statute here involved does not compel private

contract carriers to become common carriers. Id.
3. Construction of this statute by the state court, to the effect that
private contract carriers are not requied49by it to fvrnish *Fargo
insurance," held conclusive in this Court. P. 172.
4. Objection that the statute is fatally indefinite held untenable, its
requirements of the party complaining having been defined by construction, by the state supreme court. Id.
5. The Court will not pass upon a suggested construction of a state
statute and its validity if so construed when the questions, upon
the showing made, are purely academic. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

6. Fees of reasonable amount, exacted by a State of private contract
carriers using state highways in interstate commerce, for maintaining those highways and as compensation for their use, and
which are segregated for that purpose, are not objectionable as
placing an undue burden on interstate commerce. P. 173.
7. Such fees may properly be adjusted according to the carrying
capacities of the vehicles. Id.
8.The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does
not forb:d discriminations in a state statute whereby those who
use the state highways in the regular business of transporting
goods for hire are brought under regulations which do not apply
(a) to persons whose chief business is farming or dairying and
who, occasionally and not as a regular business, haul farm and
dairy products for compensation; and (b) to lumber haulers engaged in transporting lumber or logs from the forests to the shipping points. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U.S. 553, distinguished. Pp.
173, 177.
168 S.C. 440; 167 S.E. 674, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Supreme Court of South

Carolina in a proceeding brought originally in that court,
by the State Railroad Commission, to require the present
appellants to conform to the state laws and regulations
conditioning their right to use the state highways in the
business of hauling freight under private contracts for

carriage.
Mr. B. Wofiord Wait for appellants.
Mr. Irvine F. Belser, with whom Mr. John M. Daniel,
Attorney General of South Carolina, was on the brief,
for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the
the Court.

opinion of

The Railroad Commission of South Carolina brought
this suit in the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court
of the State seeking the enforcement of the state statutes

regulating transportation by motor vehicles.'

The peti-

'Sections 8507 to 8530, c. 162 of the Code of 1932; Acts of 1925,
p. 252, of 1928, p. 1238, of 1930, pp. 1068, 1100, 1327, and of
1931, 1).145.

HICKLIN v. CONEY.
169

Opinion of the Court.

tion alleged that the respondents below, including the
present appellant, fell within Class "F" of motor vehicle
carriers, that is, those known as contract carriers of property, not proposing to operate upon a regular schedule or
over a regular route, and that they were carrying on their
business on the public highways without having obtained
the required certificates or paying the prescribed license
fees. Appellant demurred to the petition and also niade
return and answer. The petitioners filed reply. Appellant contended that the statutory requirements, as applied to him as a private contract carrier, denied the equal
protection of the laws and deprived him of due process of
law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and also,
as he was engaged in interstate transportation, were repugnant to the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. The Supreme Court of the State decided the
Federal questions adversely to these contentions. 168
S.C. 440; 167 S.E. 674.
First. It was competent for the State in exercising its
control over the use of the highways to make reasonable
regulations governing that use by private contract carriers. These regulations may require on the part of interstate as well as intrastate carriers the payment of reasonable license fees and the filing of insurance policies to
protect the interests of the public by securing compensation for injuries to third persons and their property from
the negligent operations of such carriers. Continental
Baking Co. v. Woodring, 286 U.S. 352, 365, 366; Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U.L. 251, 274, 277. The statutory requirements, in this instance, do not compel private contract carriers to become common carriers. Stephenson v.
Binford, supra, pp. 265, 275. The contention that private
contract carriers are required to carry "cargo insurance"
(Michigan Commission v. Duke, 266 U.S. 570, 577) is
unavailing in view of the construction to the contrary
placed upon the statute by the state court. That court
said [p. 455]:

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

"Our statute, however, like that construed in the Stephenson case, expressly recognizes the distinction between
common carriers and private contract carriers; and from
an examination of the entire Act it is clear that the Legislature did not intend to put common carriers and private
contract carriers on the same footing with regard to the
matters here complained of. We think, and so hold, that
in the case of private carriexs, or contract carriers, the
provisions of Section 8511 extend no further than to require such carriers to execute an indemnity bond, as the
commission may prescribe under the provisions of the
Act, for the protection of the public receiving injury,
either in person .or in property, by reason of any act of
negligence of such private or contract carriers. We do
not think it was the intent of the Legislature, in the
passage of the Act, to require contract carriers to obtain
and carry cargo insurance, and we construe the Act as
not imposing upon them such requirement."
Appellant complains of this construction of the statute
as being contrary to its terms, but that question is not for
us. The decision of the state court is controlling as to the
meaning and extent of the statutory requirements. St.
Louis S.W. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U.S. 350, 362;
Knights of Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U.S. 30, 32, 33; American Railway Express Co. v. Royster Guano Co., 273 U.S.
274, 280. Nor does the statute as construed exhibit a
fatal defect of indefiniteness. Its requirements as to the
appellant, as the state court has defined them, are not
uncertain.
Another objection, that the Railroad Commission was
authorized to regulate the rates of private contract carriers, was answered by the state court in saying that the
Commission had never exercised such a power, "if any
it has under the act," and hence that appellant had no
ground for complaint. This is an adequate answer here,

HICKLIN v. CONEY.
169

Opinion of the Court.

on the present showing, as the Court does not deal with
academic contentions. Stephenson v. Binford, supra,
p. 277.
Second. Appellant insists that an undue burden is
placed upon interstate commerce because the license fees
are based on the " carrying capacity" of the vehicles.
The state court held that the fees " are collected, as provided for by section 8517, for the purpose of maintaining
the public highways over which such motor vehicles shall
operate, as compensation for their use." The statute provides for the segregation, for this purpose, of the moneys
collected. See Clark v. Poor, 274 U.S. 554, 555-557. In
this view the fees are not open to the objection -raised in
Interstate Transit, Inc., v. Lindsey, 283 U.S. 183, 186, 188.
Carrying capacity, the size and weight of trucks, unquestionably have a direct relation to the wear and hazards
of the highways. It is for this reason that the authority
of the State to impose directly reasonable limitatibns on
the weight and size of vehicles, although applicable to
interstate carriers, has been sustained. Morris v. Duby,
274 U.S. 135, 143; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U.S. 374, 388,
389. As the State may establish such regulations directly,
the State may adjust its license fees, otherwlse valid as
being reasonable and exacted as compensation for the use
of the highways, according to carrying capacity in furtherance of the same purpose. Clark v. Poor,supra.
-Third. The contention that appellant has been denied
the equal protection of the laws is based on the discrimination resulting from the exemption of " farmers or dairymen, hauling dairy or farm products; or lumber haulers
engaged in transporting lumber or logs from the forests to
the shipping points." ยง 8508. Reliance is placed on our
decision in Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U.S. 553. In that case,
the statute applied to all carriers for compensation over
regular routes and exempted from its provisions " any

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

transportation company engaged exclusively in the transporting of agricultural or horticultural, dairy or other farm
products and fresh and salt fish and oysters and shrimp
from the point of production to the assembling or shipping
point en route to primary market, or to motor vehicles
used exclusively in transporting or delivering dairy products." This distinction was thus established between all
carriers, and between private carriers, notwithstanding the
fact that they were "alike engaged in transporting property for compensation over public highways between fixed
termini or over a regular route." The Court was unable
to find any justification for this discrimination between
carriers in the same business and operating under like circumstances, that is, between those who carried for hire
farm products, or milk or butter, or fish or oysters, and
those who carried for hire breador sugar, or tea or coffee,
or groceries in general, or other useful commodities. Id.,
pp. 566, 567.
In Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, supra, pp. 372,
373, the statutory exemption ran to one "who is carrying
his own livestock and farm products to market or supplies
for his own use in his own motor vehicles." Attention
was called to the factual basis for the distinction as it had
been pointed out by the District Court, which found a
practical difference between the case of those "who operate fleets of trucks in the conduct of their business and
who use the highways daily in the delivery of their products to their custoiners " and that of " a farmer who hauls
his wheat or livestock to town once or twice a year." This
Court said that the legislature in making its classification
was entitled to consider frequency and character of use
and to adapt its regulations to the classes of operations
which by reason of their habitual and constant use of the
highways brought about the conditions making regulation
imperative and created the necessity for the imposition
of a tax for maintenance and reconstruction. The Court

HICKLIN v. CONEY.
169

Opinion of the Court.

quoted the observation in Alward v. Johnson, 282 U.S.
509, 513, 514: "The distinction between property employed in conducting a business which requires constant
and unusual use of the highways, and property not so
employed, is plain enough."
The exemptions in the instant case are not as limited as
that in Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, but they
differ materially from that found to be objectionable in
Smith v. Cahoon. The state court thus construed the
scope, and described the effect, of the exemption in favor
of farmers and dairymen: "Unquestionably, the use by
farmers and dairymen for the transportation of farm and
dairy products is seasonal and involves only a moderate
use of the highways; and the exemption here is further
limited by the fact that it can apply only to one whose
principal business is that of a farmer or dairyman and not
to one merely incidentally engaged in farming or dairying." Further, in its pleading, the Railroad Commission
averred that it had uniformly construed the statute "as
exempting farmers and dairymen only When hauling their
own product, or only when hauling them occasionally and
not as a regular business" and had adopted a formal regulation to that effect.2 In support of its pleading, and
'This regulation is as follows: "The proviso under Section 2 of
Act No. 170 of the Acts of. 1925, as amended, providing that nothing
contained in said section shall apply to farmers or dairymen hauling
dairy or farm products is construed by the Railroad Commission in
the performance of its duties in the enforcement of said Act to mean
that nothing in the said section shall apply to farmers or dairymen
hauling their own dairy or farm prpducts, or to farmers and 0lairymen
who occasionally, but do not regularly as a part of an established
business, haul farm and/or dairy products for others for hire, but
that persons who may also be engaged in part in farming operations
but who make a regular business of transporting farm and/or dairy
or other products for others for hire are not to be deemed farmers or
dairymen for the purpose of this Act, and hence are required to
comply with the act in all respects like other persons engaged in
motor transportation for hire."

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

made a part of it, the Commission presented an affidavit
by the Superintendent of the Motor Transportation Division of the Commission showing the manner in which
the statute had been applied.
The state court in its opinion said that it reached its
conclusion as to the validity of the statutory provision
" independently of the construction placed by the Railroad Commission upon the contested provision of the
Act." And the court pointed out that that construction
was "in part" unsound inasmuch as "one hauling his
own products in his own motor vehicle" did not come
within the purview of the Act and no provision for his
exemption was necessary. "The exemption," said the
court, " can refer only to farmers and dairymen hauling
farm and dairy products for compensation." The state
court, however, did not express disagreement with the
Commission's construction set forth in its regulation, that
the exemption applied "to farmers and dairymen who
occasionally, but do not regularly as a part of an established business, haul farm and/or dairy products for others
for hire, but that persons who may also be engaged in
part in farming operations but who make a regular business of transporting farm and/or dairy or other products
for others for hire are not to be deemed farmers or dairymen for the purpose of this Act, and hence are required to
comply with the Act in all respects like other persons
engaged in motor transportation for hire." Nor have we'
anything before us to show that the statute is being enforced and the exemption construed in any other sense.
Upon the present record, it appears that the exemption is
applied with two limitations, first, that, as construed by
the state court, it can refer only "to one whose principal
business is that of a farmer or dairyman and not to one
merely incidentally engaged in farming or dairying," and,
second, under the construction of the Commission in enforcing the statute-a construction not disapproved by

QLENN v. FIELD PACKING CO.

177

Statement of the Case.

169

the state court-that it applies only to farmers and dairymen who occasionally, and not as a regular business, transport farm or dairy products for compensation. We cannot say that a classification based on such a use of the
highways is an arbitrary one and thus encounters constitutional objection.
The exemption in favor of those hauling lumber and
logs " from the forests to the shipping points" relates to
a limited class of transportation simply to places of shipment and does not appear to be unreasonable. See
Sproles v. Binford, supra, p. 394.
The judgment of the state court is
Affirmed.
GLENN

ET AL. V.

FIELD PACKING CO.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 541. Argued November 15, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.
Legislation of Kentucky laying a tax of ten cents per pound on all
oleomargarine sold in the State was assailed as invalid under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and also under
the Kentucky Bill of Rights. A permanent injunction was granted
on the latter ground without deciding the federal question. Held:
1. Upon the facts found, and principles laid down by the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky, the statute, although in form a taxing
law, is in reality a prohibition of sale and hence invalid under the
state constitution. P. 178.
2. The decree should be modified to permit the state authorities
to apply for relief in the future should it appear that the statute
has been sustained by the state court as valid tinder the state
constitution, or that by reason of a change in circumstances it
may be regarded as imposing a valid tax. P. 179.
5 F. Supp. 4, modified and affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of perpetual injunction entered

by the District Court of three judges in a suit to restrain
taxing officials from enforcing a tax.

