OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

they meant "as evidence of criminality," and that the same
construction had been given to similar words in prior statutes,
citing n "reIHenrimh, 5 Blatchford, 414, 424, and In re Farez,
7 Blatchford, 345, 353. We concur in this view
Since the close of the oral argument we have been furnished
with a printed brief on the part of the appellant, which we
have examined, but we do not deem it necessary to make any
further observations on the case.
The order of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

SALOY v. BLOCH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 92. Argued December 18, 19, 1889.-Decided May 23, 1890.
Saloy, being the owner of a plantation in Louisiana, leased it to P. B.
Dragon and Athanase Dragon. The Dragons arranged with Bloch to
furnish them with goods, supplies and moneys necessary to carry on the
plantation, for which he was to have a factor's lien or privilege on the
crops, which were also to be consigned to him for sale. Saloy contracted
before the same notary as follows " And here appeared and intervened
herein Bertrand Saloy, who, after having read and taken cognizance of
what is hereinbefore written, declared that he consents and agrees that
°his claim and demands as lessor of the aforesaid Monsecours plantation
shall be subordinate and inferior in rank to the claims and privileges of
said Bloch as the furnisher of supplies or for advances furnished under
this contract, and that said Bloch shall be reimbursed from the crops
of 1883 made on said place the full amount of his advances hereunder
without regard and in preference to the demands of said Saloy for the
rental of said plantation, provided, however, that three hundred and
fifty sacks of seed rice shall remain or be left on said plantation out of
the crop of this year for the purposes thereof for the year 1884;" Held,
(1) That under the laws of Louisiana the privilege or lien of the landlord over the crops of the tenant was superibr to that of the
factor (2) That the effect of Saloy's agreement was only the waiver of that
priority and that it did not commit him in any degree to the fulfilment by the Dragons of their agreements with Bloch;
(3) That if Saloy asserted his privilege by taking possession of the

SAIOY v. BLOOM.
Opinion of the Court.
crops, (which he did,) he thereby became liable to account to
Bloch, and that this liability could be enforced by a suit in equity,.
to which the Dragons would be necessary parties;
(4) But that he was not liable therefor to Bloch in an action at law, to
which the Dragons were not parties.

THE caseis stated m the opimon.
2fr

Asswant Attorney General Mfauy and Mr- E.
Caleb for plaintiff in error.

BRoward

HP' George A. -Kingfor defendant in error.
.-r William S. Benedi t and fr
a brief for defendant in error.

Charles W Hornor filed

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action on contract brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, by
Simon Bloch, a subject of the Emperor of Germany, against
Bertrand Saloy, a citizen of Louisiana, to recover the sum of
$6266.23, with interest and costs, alleged to be due from Saloy
to the plaintiff.
In his petition the- plaintiff avers that on the 26th of January, 1883, he entered into contract with P B. Dragon and
A. Dragon, by act before a notary, to furnish funds necessary
for the cultivation and furnishing of necessary supplies to a
plantation in the parish of Plaquemines, in said State, known
as "Monsecours," for the year 1883, in consideration of the
interest and commissions stipulated to be paid in said act, that said plantation was leased by the Dragons from said
Saloy, and.that Saloy appearedin said act and made himself a
party to, said agreement, bound himself by said act and said
agreement to carry-out the terms and conditions thereof, and
did waive and remit, infavor of petitioner, any and all superior
rights and claims that he had or might have against said plantation, its- buildings, etc., and the crop to be raised thereon
during the year 1883, as the lessor or 'landlord thereof, to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court. '

end that said land might be cultivated, the advances paid back
to petitioner, and after payment of all legal claims, charges
and expenses, the balance received should be paid over to said
Saloy, the landlord.
The petition then stated that Saloy, in disregardl of his contract, did, in December, 1883, proceed by action in the 24th
District Court in and for the parish of Plaquemines, to a
suit and seizure of the buildings, the growing crop, and the
crop in process- of manufacture on said plantation, and placed
the sheriff in possession of the same, to the damage of petitioner exceeding the sum due him, that he, Saloy, afterwards
obtained an order of the court to bond the property seized, and
sold the same and converted it to his own use, without paying
petitioner the balance due him for his advances under said
contract, which balance was shown by a detailed account
annexed to the petition, by which it appeared that Bloch had
received only $23,336.10 net proceeds of the produce of the
plantation, and had advanced in money and supplies (including his interest and commissions) the sum of $29,602.33, leaving a balance in his favor of $6266.23.
The petition further states than when Saloy so seized and
converted the property, the Dragons were not indebted to
him, and the said property was subject to the claim of the
petitioner for the balance due him on his said advances, which
has not been paid by said Dragons, (who are without means to
pay the same,) or by Saloy; and that said acts of Saloy are
illegal, unjust and malicious, and that by his taking possession of said crop, stopping the business, demoralizing the
hands, and removing crop and machinery, he deprived the
Dragons of all power to comply with their contract with
the petitioner, and has injured and damaged the petitioner in
a sum far exceeding the sum due him by them, and so the
defendant, Saoy, is responsible for the said amount due
petitioner:
To this petition the defendant, Saloy, filed exceptions.
1st. No cause of action.
2d. Plaintiff cannot maintain his action until he, has first
obtained judgment against the Dragons, who are necessary
parties to the suit.

SALOY v. BLOCH.
Opinion of the Court.

3d. That the judgment rendered for Saloy against the
Dragons cannot be questioned collaterally, but only by appeal
or action of nullity to set aside the proceedings, over which
this court has no jurisdiction.
4th. The release bond given by defendant m said suit to
the Dragons (to get possession of the property) cannot lie litigated in this suit.
5th. Exceptor specially pleads the judgment rendered in
said suit of B. Saiay v. Pwerre B. Dragon and A. .Dragon,
:No. 611 of the docket of 24th judicial district court for parish of Plaquemmes, as res .udicata of the necessity for, and
validity of, the writ of provisional seizure therein issued, etc.,
(the record of that suit being filed with the exceptions.)
Upon argument, these exceptions were overruled, and thereupon Saloy filed an answer and plea in reconvention. In the
answer he first made a general denial of the allegations of
the petition, and then denied specifically that his suit against
the Dragons, his tenants, (to wit, No. 61'T of the docket of
24th judicial district court, etc.,) was in violation of any
agreement made by him with the plaintiff, or that his acts
therein were injurious to plaintiff, or illegal, unjust, or malicious, as charged, but he avers that the plaintiff appeared and
ratified defendant's acts by furnishing the sheriff funds for
cultivating the plantation and harvesting and manufacturing
the crop, after the provisional seizure, and subsequently.received from the sheriff the amount of such advances, which
were paid by defendant.
In the plea of reconvention the defendant set up his title, as
landlord, to Monsecours plantation, and the lease by which
the Dragons held it from him, being at an annual rent of
$4800, secured by notes of $4800 each.

He then set out the

contract made by the Dragons with the plaintiff, Bloch, annexing a copy of it to his plea. He further stated that the Dragons being heavily in debt, and unable to pay, in October,.
1883, two of their creditors sued them, and sequestered and
seized 100 barrels of rice and a threshing machine, subject to
reconvenor's landlord privilege and that of said Bloch, and
reconvenor intervened in that suit to protect his interest, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Courrt.

afterwards, in November, 1883, brought the suit complained
of by the plaintiff on two of the rent notes held by him, and
obtained a provisional seizure of the property subject to his
lien as lessor, and obtained judgment against the Dragons for
the amount of the two notes, less certain payments made on
one of them, and that from the sale of the property seized he
only realized, after paying claims of laborers, and costs and
charges, the sum of $1258.28, which, being deducted from his
judgment, still leaves due to him the sum of $6017
This
amount he claims from the plaintiff, Bloch, by way of reconvention, because, as he avers, Bloch received from the proceeds of, the crop of the plantation a surplus of more than
$7000, over and above all his advances, commissions and other
lawful claims.
The cause was tried before a jury on these issues, and a
verdict was found for the plaintiff of $3500. Several bills of
exceptions were taken during the trial, but, from the view we
have taken of the case, it is unnecessary to advert to them. A
radical exception taken by the defendant at the beginning,
and always insisted upon, is that the action is not maintainable, and that if the defendant is liable at all to the plaintiff,
he cannot be made to respond in this form of proceeding, in
which the Dragons are not parties, and no judgment is shown
-tohalve been recovered against them. We are of opinion that
this exception is well taken, and, in order to explain our
views, it is necessary to look a little more particularly at the
laws relating to the respective rights of lessors in regard to the
rents due to them, and of factors advancing moneys on supplies for the cultivation of a plantation, and at the alleged
contract on which the suit is founded.
In treating of the subject of privileges, the Civil Code of
Louisiana, by article 3217, declares as follows
"The debts which are privileged on certain movables are
the f6llowing
"1. The appointinents or salaries of the overseers for the
current year, on the crops of the year and the proceeds
thereof, debts due for necessary supplies furnished to any
farm or plantation, and debts due for money actually ad-

SALOY v. BLOCH.
OlInion of the Court.

vanced and used-for the purchase of necessary supplies and
the payment of necessary expenses for any farm or plantation, on the crops of the year and the proceeds thereof.
" 3. The rents of immovables and the wages of laborers
employed in working the same, on the crops of the year, and
on the furniture which is found in the house let, or on the
farm, and on everything which serves to the working of the
farm.
"The privileges granted by this article, on the growing
crop in favor of the classes of persons mentioned, shall be
concurrent, except the privilege in favor of the laborer, which
shall be ranked as the first privilege on the crop."
"ARTicLE 3218. The right- which the lessor has over the
products of the estate, and on the movables which are found
on the place leased, for his rent, is of a higher nature than
mere privilege. The latter is only enforced on the price
arising from the sale of movables to which it applies. It does
-not enable the creditor to take or keep the effects themselves
specially The lessor, on the contrary, may take the effects
themselves and retain them until he is paid."
Under the title "lease," in the same-code, are the following
provisions"
"1ARTIoF, 2705. The lessor has, for the payment of his rent,
and other obligations of the lease, a right of pledge on the
-movable effects of the lessee, which are found on the property
leased.
"In the case of predial estates, this right embraces ever thing that serves for the labors of the farm, the furniture of
the lessee's house, and the fruits produced during the lease of
the land.
"AmuT.cL 2709. In the exercise of this right, the lessor may
seize the objects which are subject to it, before the lessee takes
them away, or within fifteen days after they are taken away,
if they continue to be the property of the lessee, and can be
identified."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

By an act of the legislature of Louisiana, approved March
21, 184, Laws of 1874, No. 66, p. 114, it was, amongst other
things, provided as follows
"SEcTON 1. Be it enacted,etc. That m addition to the privilege now conferred by law, any planter or farmer may pledge
or. pawn his growing crop of cotton, sugar or other agricultural products for advances in money, goods and necessary
supplies that he may reqmre for the production of the same,
by entering into a written agreement to pledge the same and
having the agreement recorded in the office of the recorder of
mortgages of the parish where said cotton, sugar or other
agricultural product is produced, which recorded contract shall
give and confer on the merchant or other person advancing
money, goods and necessary supplies for the production of the
said agricultural product, a right, of pledge upon the said crop,
the same as if the said crop had been in the possession of the
pledgee Provded, That the right of pledge thus conferred
shall be subordinate to that of the claim of the laborers for
wages and for the rent of the land on which the crop was
produced."
From these laws it will be seen that the privilege or pledge
of the landlord for his rent is superior to the privilege given
by the Civil Code to the factor who advances money or necessary supplies to the planter, and, by the proviso of the act
of 1874, it is still made superior to the pledge which that law
authorizes the planter to make to the factor for his advances.
It was in view of this superior right of the lessor that Saloy
was asked to join in a contract between the Dragons as planters of Monsecours, and Simon Bloch, who agreed to make
advances for the cultivation thereof. This contract was made
by an act passed before a notary on the 26th of January,
1883, by which the two Dragons declared that, requiring to
have goods and necessary supplies furnished and moneys
actually advanced to be used for the purchase of necessary
expenses and laborers to plant, cultivate, sow, gather and
manufacture the crops of rice, sugar, molasses and other
products to be nade or raised during the present year on the
7ionsecours plantation, situated in the parish of Plaquemmes,

SALOY v. BLOCK

-

Opinon of the Court.

etc., they had contracted a loan of the sum of $T500 of aid
from Simon Bloch, of this city [New Orleans], and as evidence of such loan the said Pierre B. Dragon had furnished
three certain promissory notes for the sum of $2500 each,
which said notes were delivered-unto said Simon Bloch.
And in order to more fully secure the punctual payment of all such advances and moneys advanced or to be advanced as aforesaid, costs, charges, expenses, commissions, and
attorney's fees, a special lien and mortgage or privilege was
thereby granted and recognized for the full sum of $15,000 on
any and all crop or crops of rice, sugar, molasses, and other
products that might be planted, grown, raised and gathered,
or made and manufactured during the year 1883 on the said
plantation. The .act alsocontained an obligation to ship and
consign the entire crop of rice, sugar, molasses and other products made on the said plantation during the year 1883 to the
said mortgagee [Bloch] in the city-of New Orleans, whenever
required or notified so to do by him or his assigns, in default
of which the mortgagee or assigns were authorized to sequester the crops or proceeds thereof, in whosesoever hands the
same might be, regardless of any sale or transfer. After
various other agreements and stipulations contained in the
act between the Dragons and Bloch, a final clause was
inserted containing an agreement or concession .of Bertrand
Saloy, the defendant below, which laid the foundation of the
puesent action. It is here inserted verbatim
" And here appeared and intervened herein Bertrand Saloy,
who, after having read and taken cognizance of what is herembefore written, declared that he consents and agrees that his
claim and demandsas lessqr of the aforesaid ' fonsecours plantation' shall be subordinate and inferior in rank to the claims
and privileges of said Bloch as the-furnisher of supplies or for
advances furnished under this contract, and that said Bloch
shall be reimbursed from the crops of 1883 made on said place
the full amount of his advanices hereunder without. regard and
in preference to the demands of said Saloy fQr the rental of
said plantation, provided, however, that three hundred and
fifty sacks of seed rice shall remain or be left on said planta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tion out of the crop of this year for the purposes thereof for
the year 1884."
We do not think that this clause contains any such contract
as is averred in the petition of the plaintiff. It is there averred
that Saloy appeared in said act and made himself a .party to
said agreement, and bound himself by said act and said agreement, to carry out the terms and conditions thereof, etc.
There is nothing, as it seems to us, in the agreement of
"Saloy, which engages him to any guarantee of the contract of
the Dragons with Bloch, nothing to show that he committed
himself in any degree to the fulfilment of said agreements on
the part of the Dragons. It contains merely a waiver on his
part of his priority in rank as lessor of the plantation. He
simply consents and agrees that his claim shall be subordinate
and inferior in rank to the claims and privileges of Bloch, and
that Bloch shall be reinbursed for his advances without regard to any preference to the demands of said Saloy That
is all. This consent and waiver only placed Salov in the position of a second mcumbrancer, having himself a pledge on the
crops of the plantation, but subject to a superior pledge or
mortgage in favor of Bloch for his advances.
The question then arises whether Saloy was prevented by
his said waiver from instituting suit, and seizure of the crop,
for his own claim for rent. We know of no law or rule of
practice in Louisiana which prevented him from instituting
such suit. It is true that the net proceeds of the crop in his
hands, resulting from his seizure and sale thereof, were liable
to the claim of Bloch.
The Code of Practice provides for sales by the sheriff subject
to the rights of those having prior lieps or privileges, and the
purchaser at such sales takes the property subject to those
liens, and is credited for the amount thereof on the purchase
money of the adjudication. Arts. 679, 683.
And by article
709" "The hypothecary action lies against the purchaser of a
property seized, which is subject to privileges or mortgages, in
favor of such creditors as have said privileges and mortgages,
in the same manner and under the same rules and restrictions
as are applicable to a third possessor of a mortgaged property"

SAIOY v. BLOCE.
Opmon of the. Court.

The crop and property sold by Saloy was undoubtedly subjeot to the plaintiff's pledge to the extent -of the amount due
to him from the Dragons, and he is entitled to an account
from Saloy for that amount to the extent of the net proceeds
of said sale. But his claim against Saloy is an -equitable one,
and in the United States court can only be pursued on the
equity side on a bill for an account, in which all equitable deductions would be allowed'for the claims of laborers and other
preferred creditors, and in such suit an'inquiry would be had
as to the amount, of Bloch's claim against the Dragons, and
they would be necessary parties. The debt for which the
plaintiff sues Saloy is their debt, and yet they are not cited and
no judgment'has been obtained against them. It seems to us
altogether an irregular proceeding.
The present suit is an action for damages against Saloy for
instituting proceedings and seizing the crops for the purpose of
collecting his rent. Such an action cannot be maintained, for
Saloy -was not prevented by any law from instituting such
proceedings for the recovery of his rent. He did nothing that
he was not entitled to do, though he became liable to account
to Bloch for the net proceeds of the crop, as before mentioned,
so far as might be necessary for the satisfaction of Blooh's
claim, when duly adjudicated. In-our judgment, therefore, the
exception taken by Saloy to the petition in this case was well
founded, and the action was not maintainable. 'The judgment
of the Circuit Court is
Reversed, and the cause, remanded, with directwns to enter
)ud gmentfor the defendant.

