OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Sixth Circuit were a/firmed there mzght result a double
allowance to hAm clIents, whIch they did not inszst upon.
As the details and sum are not clearly resented, we can
only say that this matter must be taken snto account -in the
subsequent dis2posatzon of the cases.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.

McCALL v. OALIFORMA.
ERROR TO THE

SUPERIOR

COURT OF

SAN FRANCISCO,
No. 1190.

THE CITY AND

COUNTY

OF

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted October 28, 1889. -Decided

May 19, 1890.

An agency of a line of railroad between Chicago and New York, established
in San Francisco for the purpose of inducing passengers going from
San Francisco to New York to take that line at Chicago, but not engaged in selling tickets for the route, or receiving or paying out money
on account of it, is an agency engaged in interstate commerce; and a
license-tax imposed upon the agent for the privilege of doing business
in San Francisco is a tax upon interstate commerce, and is unconstitutional.

ORDER No. 1589 of the board of supervisors of the city and
county of San Francisco, "imposing municipal licenses" provided among other things, as follows.
"SEC. 1. Every person who shall violate any of the provisions of this order shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not
more than one thousand dollars or by imprisonment no more
than six months or by both."
"SEC. 10. The rates of license shall be according to the
following schedule

"Subdivision XXXIII.
"First.. For every railroad agency; twenty-five dollars per
quarter."

McCALL v. CALIFORNIA.
Argument for Defendant. in Error.

The plaintiff in error, J G. McCall, was an agent in the
city and county of San Francisco, California, for the New
York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company, a corporation having its principal place of business in the city 'of Chicago, and which operated a continuous line of road between
Chicago and New York. He had not taken out a license
for the quarter ending March 31, 1888, as required by the
provisions of the aforesaid ordern As such agent his duties
consisted in soliciting passenger traffic in that city and county
over the road he represented. He did not sell tickets to such
passengers over that road or any other, but took them to the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, where the tickets were
sold to them. The only duty he was required to perform
for such company was to induce people contemplating taking
a trip East to be booked over the line he represented. He
neither received nor paid out any money or other valuable
consideration on account thereof.
On the 3d of June, 1888, the, plaintiff in error was convicted
of misdemeanor in the police judge's court of the city and
county of San Francisco for violation of the provisions of the
aforesaid order, and on the 16th of November of that year,
after a motion for a new trial and a motion in arrest of judgment had both been denied, the court sentenced him to pay a
fine of twenty ddllars, and in default of the payment thereof
to imprisonment in the county jail of the city and county until
the same should be paid, for a period not exceeding twenty
days. Upon appeal to the Superior Court of the city and
county of San Francisco that court- affirmed the judgment
below, and this writ of error was then sued out.
.Mr JTdseph P IZlly, for plaintiff in error.
.A& James D Pagefor defendant in error.
The solicitation of business under the circumstances cannot
be interstate commerce, as it relates to something wholly outside of the State in which solicitation is made, and has not for
an -end the introduction of anything.intb the State. In that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

respect this case differs from Robbzns v Sitelby County Taxing
Dstrzct, 120 U S. 489.
The municipal license tax sought to be recovered by this
action is not a tax upon the business of the railroad represented,
but a license tax for the privilege of maintaining an agency in
the city of San Francisco. There is an essential difference
between this case and that of .ieloup v Port of iJfobile, 127
U S. 640. It comes directly within the principles decided bv the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Jofolk &TWestern Railroad v Pennsylvanta, 114: Penn. St. 256. See also Pembzna
)llining Co. v Pennsylvansa, 125 U. S. 181, Paul v iTirgznsa,
8 Wall. 168, and Smt v Alabama, 124: U S, 465.
In the drummers' cases the connection of the avocation
with interstate commerce is immediate. Goods are to be sent
to the State where the drummer is working from another
State. Ie secures orders for them to be sent, i.e., arranges
the contract for sending them. The sending is commerce, interstate commerce,- and the contract to send is immediately connected with this commerce and essential to its existence, for one of the two States to prevent the contract would
be to prevent the commerce.
But the railroad here in question is operated wholly between two States distant from California. The commerce
which it does is exclusively between those distant Statesnamely, transporting persons and goods between them.
A man in California soliciting business for such a road is
at best very remotely connected with interstate commerce,
and to hinder his work cannot directly hinder the interstate
commerce of the road. That commerce is elsewhere; and his
business is not essential to its existence, but only very remotely,
if at all accessory to its prosperity The, constitutional provision was intended to remedy an unfortunate condition of
things, in which States to or through which commerce passed
or would pass subjected that commerce to burdens and hindrances. The sweeping away of these burdens and hindrances
was the object to be effected, and the Constitution should not
be construed to restrict the rights of the States further than
is necessary to get rid of substantial hindrances to commerce.

McCALL v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

Matters whibh, in a very remote degree, and in a State in
which the commerce itself does not go, affect not the freedom
of the commerce but its volume, should be regarded as still
within the control of each State. California can levy no prohibitive tax in this case, for the commerce is wholly without
Califorma and beyond her reach. Neither can she "regulate"
it, for the same. reason. Neither can she interfere with any
of tho usual means and instruments of carrying on such a
commerce as a railroad carries on, still for the same reason.
A person distant from the road, soliciting others to travel
over it when they get to it, is not one of the usual-certainly
not one of the necessary -instruments of a railroad company's
commerce. The essential commerce is the carrying, whereas
this defendant does none of the carrying nor even of the contracting to carry- he is a mere advertisement.
is not claimed that the ordinance providing for a license
from railway agencies conflicts with the laws of the State of
California, nor that it is an unwarrantable exercise of police
power on the part of the board of supervisors, except in so
far as it is cl.qined that it conflicts with the Constitution of
the United States and the laws of Congress.
I respectfully submit that the right sought to be enforced
is a proper one, and that under the cases cited there is no interference with commerce nor interstate commerce in so doing.
-It

MR. JUSTIceF LA AR, atter stating the case as above reported,
-delivered the opinion of the court.

There are three assignments of error which are reducible to
the single proposition that the order under which the plaintiff
in error was convicted is repugnant to clause 3 of section 8,
article 1, of the Constitution of the United States, commonly
known as the "commerce clause" of the Constitution, in that
it imposes a tax upon interstate commerce, and .that fherefore
the court below erred in not so deciding -and in rendering
judgment against the plaintiff in error.
This proposition presents the only question m the case, and
if it appears Trom this record that the business in which -the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in error was engaged was interstate commerce, it
must follow that the license tax exacted of him as a condition
precedent to his carrying on that business was a tax upon
interstate commerce, and therefore violative of the commercial
clause of the Constitution.
In the recent case of -Lyng v State of Michigan, decided
April 28, 135 U. S.161, 166, this court said "We have repeatedly held that no State has the right to lay a tax on interstate
commerce in any form, whether by way of duties laid on the
transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or on the
receipts derived from that transportation, or on the occupation
or business of carrying it on, for the reason that such taxation
is a burden on thrat commerce, and amounts to a regulation of
it, which belongs solely to Congress."
In County of 11obile v Eirnball, 102 U S. 691, 702, this
court defined interstate commerce in the following language
"Commerce with foreign countries and among the States,
strictly considered, consists in intercourse and traffic, including in these terms navigation and the transportation and transit of persons and property as well as the purchase, sale and
exchange of commodities."
Pomeroy in his work on "Constitutional -Law," section 378,
referring to the signification of the word "commerce," says
"'It includes thefact of intercourseand of traflf
and the subject matter of intercourse and traffic. The fact of intercourse
and traffic, again, embraces all the means, instruments, and
places by and in which intercourse and traffic are carried on,
and,further still, comprehends the act of carrying them on at
these places and by and with these means. The subject matter of intercourse or traffic may be either things, goods, chattels, merchandise or persons. All these may, therefore, be
regulated."
Tested by these principles and definitions, what was the business or occupation carried on by the plaintiff in error on which
the tax in question was imposed 2 It is agreed by both parties
that his business was that of soliciting passengers to travel
,over the railroad which he represents as an agent. It is
admitted that the travel which it was his business to solicit is

McCA-IL v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

not from one place to another within the State of -California.
His business, therefore, as a railroad agent had no connection,
direct or indirect, with any domestic commerce between two
or more places within the State. His employment was limited
exclusively to inducing persons in the State of California to
travel from that State into and through other States to the
city of New York. To what, then, does his agency relate
except to interstate transportation of persons 2 Is not that as
much an agency of interstate commerce as if he were engaged
in soliciting and securing the transportation of freight from
San Francisco to New York City over that line of railroad 2
If the business of the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company in carrying passengers by rail between Chicago
and New York and intermediate points, in both directions, is
interstate commerce, as much so as is the carrying of freight,
it follows that the soliciting of passengers to travel over that
route was a part of the business of securing the passenger
traffic of the company The object and effect of his soliciting
agency were to swell the volume of the business of the road.
It was one of the " means",by which the company sought to
increase and doubtless did increase its interstate passenger
traffic. It was nut incidentally or remotely connected with
the business of the road, but was a direct method of increasing that business. The tax upon it, therefore, was, according
to'the principles established by the decisions of this court, a
tax upon a means or an occupation of carrying on interstate
.commerce, pure and simple.
In Robbnzns v Shelby Taming Dstct,120 U S. 489, the
taxing district of Shelby County, Tennessee, which included
the city of Memphis, acting under the authority of a statute
of that State, attempted to impose a license tax upon .a.
"drummer" for soliciting, within that district, the sale of
goods for a firm in Cincinnati which he represented, but this
court decided that such a soliciting of business constituted a
part of interstate commerce, and that the statute of Tennessee
imposing a tax upon such business was in conflict with the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States, and
was therefore void.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

A like decision was rendered in Zelouy v Port of -Mobile,
127 U. S. 640, and in Asker v Texas, 128 U. S. 129, both
of these decisions were carefully considered and the principle
was affirmed. In Stoutenburgh, v 1Hennick, 129 U S. 141,
the same question came before the court and the principle
governing the cases to which we have referred was again
carefully considered and affirmed. See also Ptckard v
Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U S. 34:, Fargo v Michsgan., 121 U S. 230, and the recent cases of letsy v Hardin,
135 U S. 100, and lyng v .Afich'gan, 135 U S. 161, decided April 28th, 1890.

We might conclude our observations on the case with the
above remarks, but we deem it proper to notice some of the
points raised by the defendant in error and which were
relied upon by the court below to control its decision sustaining the validity of the aforesaid order.
It is argued that the New York, Lake Erie and Western
Railroad Company is a foreign corporation operating between Chicago and New York City, wholly outside of and distinct from California, and it is very earnestly contended that

the business of soliciting passengers in California for such a
road cannot be interstate commerce, as it has not for its end

the introduction of anything into the State. We do not think
that fact, even as stated, is material in this case. The argument is based upon the assumption that the provision in the
Constitution of the United States relating to commerce
among the States applies as a limitation of power only to
those States through which such commerce would pass, and
that any other State can impose any tax it may deem proper

upon such commerce. To state such a proposition is to refute
it, for if the clause in question prohibits a State from taxing
interstate commerce as it passes through its own territory, a
fortor, the prohibition will extend to such commerce when
it does not pass through its territory The argument entirely
overlooks the fact that in this case the object was to send
passenger traffic out of California into and through the other

States traversed by the road for which the plaintiff in error
was soliciting patronage.

McCALL v. CALIFORNIL.
Opinion of the Court.

It is further said that the soliciting of passengers in California for a railroad running from Chicago to New York, if
connected with interstate commerce at all, is so very remotely
connected with it that the hindrance to the business of the
plaintiff in error caused by the tax could not directly affect
the commerce of the road, because his business was not essential to such commerce. The reply to this proposition is, that
the essentiality of the business of, the plaintiff in error to the
commerce of the 'road he represented is not the test as to
whether that business was a part of interstate commerce. It
may readily be admitted, without prejudicing his defence,
that the road would continue to carry passengers between
Chicago and New York 'even if the agent had been prohibited altogether from pursuing his business in California.
The test is - Was this business a part of the commerce of the
road? Did it assist, or was it carried on with the purpose- to
assist, in increasing the amount of passenger traffic on the
road? If it did, the power to tax it involves the lessening of
the commerce of the road to an extent commensurate with
the amount of business done by the agent.
The court below relied mainly upon. Iorfolk & Western
1aibroad Co. v Pennsylvanza, 114 Penn. St. 256, Pembnia
.Mining Co. v PennsyZvana, 125 U S. 181, and Smit/h v
Alabama, 124 1U.. S. 465, to support its judgment. But weare 6f opinion that neither of the cases of this court sustains that position. The other case we dispose of in a separate
opinion, reversing the judgment in the court below, post, 114.
Pembzna .Ainsng Co. v Pennsylvanwi manifestly is not an
authority in favor of 'the position of the court below, but
rather the reverse. In that case a company incorporated
under the la.s of Colorado for the purpose of doing a general
mining and milling business. in that State had an office in
Philadelphia "for the use of its officers, stockholders, agents,
and employes." The State of' Pennsylvania, through her
proper officers, assessed a tax against the corporation for
Coffice license;" which the company resisted on the ground
that the act under which the. assessment was levied was in
conflict with the "commerce clause" of the Constitution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, in that it was an attempt to tax interstate
commerce, as such. The Pennsylvania courts affirmed the
validity of the assessment and, a writ of error having been
This court
sued out, the case was brought here for review
held that the state legislation in question did not infringe
upon the commercial clause of the Constitution, because it
imposed no prohibition upon the transportation into the State
of the products of the corporation or upon their sale in the
State, but simply exacted a license tax from the corporation
for its office in the Commonwealth, and went on to say
"The exaction of a license fee to enable the corporation to
have an office for that purpose within the Commonwealth is
clearly within the competency of its legislature. It was decided long ago, and the doctrine has been often affirmed since,
that a corporation created by one State cannot, with some
exceptions, to which we shall presently refer, do business in
another State without the ]atter's consent, express or implied,"
p. 184, quoting at some length from Paul v Virg n a, 8
Wall. 168, to sustain the conclusion there reached. But -the
court further remarked that "a qualification of this doctrine
was expressed in Pensacola Telegraph Company v Western
Unon Telegraph Company, 96 U. S. 1, 12, so far as it applies
to corporations engaged in commerce under the authority
or with the permission of Congress," p. 185, and in conclusion said "The only limitation upon this power of the State
to exclude a foreign corporation from doing business within
its limits, or hiring offices for that purpose, or to exact conditions for allowing the corporation to do business or hire
offices there, arises where the corporation is in the employ of
the federal government, or where its business is strictly commerce, interstate or foreign. The control of such commerce,
being in the federal government, is not to be restricted by
State authority," p. 190. The reference to Pensacola Telegrapvh Co. v Western Unton Telegraph Co. clearly indicates
that the court did not intend to lay down any rule recognizing
the power of a State to interfere in any manner with interstate commerce. The latter case was one in which the legislature of Florida had granted to the Pensacola company the

XcCALL v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

exclusive right of establishing and maintaining telegraph lines
in two counties in that State, and this court held that such
legislation was in conflict with the act of Congress of July 24,
1866, granting to any telegraph company the right -"to construct, maintain and operate lines of telegraph through and
over any portion of the public domain of the United States,
over and along any of the military or post roads of the
United States which have been or may.hereafter be declared
such by act of Congress, and over, under or across the navigable streams or waters of the United States," etc. This
court held such state legislation unconstitutional, as interfering with interstate commerce, and in its opinion announced
no doctrine not in harmony with the principles -of the later
decisions to which we have referred.
Smith v Alabama was a case in whidh an act of the state
legislature imposing a license upon any locomotive engineer
operating or running any engine or train of cars on any
railroad in that State was resisted by an engineer of the
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, who ran an engine drawing passenger coaches on that road from Mobile m that State
to Corinth in Mississippi, on the ground -thatthe statute of the
State was an attempt to regulate interstate commerce, and
was, therefore, repugnant -to the commercial clause of the
Constitution of the Uniteff States. We held, however, that
the statute in question was not in its nathre a regulation of
commerce, that so far as it affected commercial transactions
among the States, its effect was so indirect, incidental and
remote as not to burden or impede such commerce, and that
it was not, therefore, in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States or any law of Congress. It having been thns
ascertained that the legislation of the State of Alabama did
not impose any burden or tax upon interstate commerce, there
is nothing to be found in the opinion in that case that is not
in harmony with the doctrines we have asserted in this case.
That opinion quoted at length from Sherlock v. Ailing, 93
U. S. 99, 102, where it was expressly held that "the States cannot by legislation place burdens upon commerce with foreign
nations or among the several States. The decisrins go to that
VOL. cxxxvi-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

extent and their soundness is not questioned. But, upon an
examination of the cases in which they were rendered, it will be
found that the legislation adjudged invalid imposed a tax upon
some snstrument or subject of commerce, or exacted a license
feefron partiesengaged zn comercalparsudts,or created an
impediment to the free navigation of some public waters, or
prescribed conditions in accordance with which commerce in
particular -articles or between particular places was required
to be conducted. In all the cases the legislation condemned
opQrated directly upon commerce, either by- way of tax upon
its business, license upon its pursuit in particular channels or
conditions for carrying it on."
It resultsfrom what we have sazd that the judgment of the
court below should be, and st heresy zs, reversed, and the
case ss remanded to that courtfor further proceedings sn
conformsty with ths opzn on.
19R. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

JuSTI CE BREwER

MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY

and MR.

dissented.

NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 294.

COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued April 24, 25, 1890. -Decided

May 19, 1890.

A railroad which is a link in a through line of road by which passengers
and freight are carried into a State from other States and from that State
to other States, is engaged in the business of interstate conimerce; and
a tax imposed by such State upon the corp.oration owning such road for
the privilege of keeping an office in the State, for the Use o" its officers,
stockholders, agents and employ~s (it being a colporation created by
another State) is a tax upon commerce among the States, and as such is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

