SMITH PURIFIER CO; v. M GROARTY.
Statement of the Case.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, having been of counsel,.and MiR. JusoiE
BREWER, not having been a member of the court when the
case was argued, took no part in its consideration or decision.

SMITH MIDDLINGS PURIFIER COMPANY v.
McGROARTY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 28. Argued April 15, 16, 1889.-Decided May 19,1890.
An appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, dismissing a bill filed by creditors to set aside a mortgage by their debtor,
is within the 3urlsdiction of this court as to those creditors only whose
debts severally exceed $5000.
The filing of a voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditQrs, and of the
assignee's bond, in a probate court, under the statutes of Ohio, does not
prevent a creditor, who is a citizen of another State, and has not become
a party to the proceedings in the state court, from suing in equity in the
Circuit Court of.the United States to set aside a mortgage made by the
debtor contemporaneously with.the assignment.
In Ohio, a mortgage by an insolvent trading corporation to prefer some of
its creditors, having.been held by the Supreme Court of the State to be
invalid, under its constitution and laws, against general creditors such
a mortgage must be hel invalid in the courts of the United States.

THIS was a bill in equity, fied November 4, ,1885, by a corporation of Michigan against the Simpson and- Gault Manufacturing Company, a corporation of Ohio, Sayler, a citizen
of Ohio and assignee of that company, under the laws of Ohio,
McGroarty, Simpson, Gault and Fitch, also citizens of Ohio,
and Charles, a citizen of New York.
The bill alleged that the defendant company, on May 25,
1885, by a deed of assignment filed in the probate court of
Hamilton County in the State of Ohio, granted and assigned
all its property, real and personal, to Sayler, in trust'to sell
and dispose 6f it, and to apply the proceeds, after paying the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

expenses of executing the trust, to the payment of all its
creditors, that Sayler accepted the trust, and gave bond as
required by the laws of Ohio, and entered on his duties as
assignee under that deed, and sold all the property, and was
about to distribute the proceeds, that the company then and
still was indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of $1461.72, and
interest from February 3, 1885, that on May 23, 1885, the
company, being deeply insolvent, and contemplating and intending to make a general assignment of all its property to
Sayler as aforesaid, and as part of one and the same transaction with that assignment, and by the procurement of Simpson,
who was president of the defendant company, and of one
O'IHara, its treasurer, executed and delivered mortgages of
all its property to the five individual defendants, Simpson,
M bGroarty, Gault, Fitch and Charles, severally, in fraud of
the plaintiff and other creditors of the company, and with a
fraudulent intent to prefer the mortgagees as creditors of the
company, contrary to the provisions of the statutes of Ohio
regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors; and that
the company, and Sayler as its assignee, had been requested by
the plaintiff, and had refused, to take proceedings to have the
mortgages set aside.
The bill prayed -that the mortgages might be declared to
enure to the benefit of the plaintiff and all other general creditors of the company, and that Sayler might be ordered to
distribute the fund in his hands accordingly, and be restrained
from applying it to the payment of the debts secured by the
mortgages, and for further relief.
No service was made upon Charles; and, upon the plaintiff's
motion, the bill was dismissed as to him, and was amended by
joining as plaintiffs three citizens of the State of New York,
partners under the name of W & F Livingston, and by alleging that they had recovered judgment against the -defendant
company in November, 1885, for the sum of $10,822.89, which
remained unreversed, and upon which execution had been
issued and returned unsatisfied.
Sayler, Simpson, MeGroarty, Fitch and Gault demurred to
the bill, for want of equity, and because the matters stated in

SMITH PURIFIER CO. v. McGROARTY.
Opinon of the Court.

the bill, and all questions touching the validity of the mortgages and the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of the
property, were within the exclusive jurisdiction of the probate
court of fHamilton County The court sustained the demurrers
and dismissed the bill, and the plaintiffs appealed to this court.
Wilby and Mr J C. Ra
Ar Tos&hep

.per
for appellants.

.X fTwmas McDougall for appellee.
YR.

JusTicn GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The claim of the plaintiff company, being for less than
$5000, is insufficient to give this court jurisdiction, and the
appeal must therefore be dismissed as to that company Stewart v Dunham, 115 U S. 61, Gibson v Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27.
But the claim of W & F Livingston, citizens of New York,
who by leave of the Circuit Court and amendment of the bill
were joined as plaintiffs, is more than $10,000, which is sufficient to give this court jurisdiction of the appeal, so far as
concerns their claim., and Charles, also a citizen of New York,
who was originally joined as defendant, not having been served
with process, and the bill having been dismissed as to him, the
case in regard to the citizenship of the parties was within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The plaintiffs, in the brief filed in their behalf, expressly
"disclaim any intention to impeach the transaction in controversy, as one made with intent to hinder, delay or defraud
creditors ," and seek to maintain their bill on the sole ground
"that.the transaction shown by the bill is within the operation
of section 6343 of the Revised Statutes, and that therefore
the attempted preferences should be decreed to enure, to the
.
.
benefit of the general creditors."
By ยง 6335 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio of 1880,- "when
any person, partnership, association or corporation shall make
an assignment to a trustee of any property, money, rights or
credits, in trust 'for the benefit of creditors, it 'shall be the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the. Court.

duty of said assignee" to file the assignment in the probate
court of the county in which be resides, and to give bond,
with sureties approved by that court, for the performance of
his duties as assignee.
By ยง 6343, "all assignments in trust to a trustee or trustees, made in contemplation of insolvency, with the intent
to prefer one or more creditors, shall enure to the equal benefit
of all creditors, in proportion to the amount of their respective
claims, and the trusts arising under the same shall be administered in conformity with the provisions of this chapter."
Subsequent sections provide for publishing notice of the
appointment of the assignee, and. for an appraisement and
inventory of the property, the examination of the assignor
and assignee on oath, the conversion of the property into
money, the discharge of incumbrances, the proof of debts and
the distribution of the property among the creditors.
The objection taken to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of the United States, upon the ground that the probate court
of Hamilton County had exclusive jurisdiction of the matters
in controversy, cannot be sustained. Upon the allegations of
the bill, admitted by the demurrer, nothing appears to have
been done in that court, before the.commencement of this suit,
except to file the voluntary assignment of the debtor, and the
bond of the assignee, and the Circuit Court clearly had jurisdiction of a bill by citizens of other States, (who did not, so
far as appears 'by this record, become parties to the proceedings in the state court,) to set aside the mortgages as fraudulent or invalid as against them. Shelby v Bacon, 10 How
56, Green v Cretghton, 23 How 90; Payne v. Hook, T Wall.
425, Arrowsmith v. Gleason. 129 U S. 86.
The defendants rely on the decision in Sayler v Simpson,
,45 Ohio St. 141, in which it appears that in a controversy to
which these assignees, these mortgagees and W & F Livingston were parties, the Supreme Court of Ohio held that the
probate court had jurisdiction to determine the rights of the
mortgagees. But neither that decision, nor the facts stated in
that report, have been pleaded or appear of record in this
ease.

SMITH PURIFIER CO. v. McGROARTY.
Opinion of ihe Court.

The present case is to be decided by the application of the
law of Ohio to the facts stated in this bill and admitted by
the demurrer, and the best evidence of that law, as affecting
the validity of the mortgages and assignment, is to be found
in the decisions of the Supreme Court of Ohio. Unmn Bank
v Kansas City Bank, ante, 223, 235.
In the recent case of Rouse v J-Yerchants' Bank, 46 Ohio
St. 493, that court, upon a Fimilar state of facts, adjudged that
mortgages made by a trading corporation after it had become
insolvent, and had ceased to do business, to prefer some of its
creditors, were invalid and ineffectual against its creditors
generally, without regard to the question whether the mortgages were or were not parts of the same transaction as an
assignment under the statute.
That decision, it is true, proceeded in part upon a theory
that the property of an insolvent incorporation is a trust fund
for its creditors in a wider and more general sense than could
be maintained upon general principles of equity jurisprudence.
Graham v Railroad Co., 102 U S. 148, 161, Wabash, St.
bous & Pactftc Railway v Ham, 114 U. S.587, 594, Richardson,v. Green, 133 U S. 30, 44, .Foggv Blair, 133 U. S.
534, 541, Peters v. Ban, 133 U S. 670, 691, 692. But
it also proceeded in large Vart, as the opinion clearly shows,
upon the constitution of Ohio, and the law and policy of that
State as declared in previous decisions of its highest court, and
should therefore be accepted by this court as decisive of the
law of Ohio upon the subject.
It would be an extraordinary result, if the courts of the
United States, in exercising the jurisdiction conferred upon
them with a view to secure. the rights of citizens residing in
different States, should hold such a conveyance to be valid
against citizens of other States as the Supreme Court of Ohio
holds to be void as against its own citizens.
Dec'ee reversed, and case remanded for furtherproceedings
mn. conformity with tMs opmion.
1MYn. JusTicE Bi.wnii, not having been a member of the court

-when this case was argued, took no part in- its decision.
VOL. cX:xvx-i6

