OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

inspected in Minnesota before being slaughtered, is in violation
of the Constitution of the United States and void.
The judgment dischargng the appellee from custody s
aflurmed.

IN RE LUIS OTEIZA y CORTES, Petitioner.!
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1631. Argued May 20, 1890. -Decided

May23, 1890.

A writ of habeas corpus in a case of extradition cannot perform the office
of a writ of error.
If the commissioner has jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the
person of the accused, and the offence charged is within the terms of
a treaty of extradition, and the commissioner, in arriving at a decision
to hold the accused, has before him competent legal evidence on which
to exercise his judgment as to whether the facts are sufficient to
establish the criminality of the accused for the purposes of extradition,
such decision of the commissioner cannot be reviewed by a Circuit
Court or by this court, on habeas corpus, either originally or by appeal.
In § 5 of the act of August 3, 1882, c. 378, (22 Stat. 216,) the words " for
similar purposes" mean " as evidence of criminality," and depositions,
or other papers, or copies thereof, authenticated and certified in the
manner prescribed in § 5, are not admissible in evidence, on the hearing
before the commissioner, on the part of the accused.

PETIIoN for a writ of habeas corpus. The writ was denied,.

from which judgnent the petitioner took this appeal. The case
is stated in the opinion.
_Nl

I'ouqs S. Phillips for the petitioner.

J Emmet 1. OZcott, on behalf of the Spanish .government, opposing.
1 The docket title of this case was. -Lui
v. John W Jacobus, Marshal, etc., et al.

de Oteza y Cortez, Appellant,

IN RE LUIS OTEIZA Y CORTES.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFOiRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

By section 12, of Article II, of the convention between the
United States and the kingdom of Spain, for the extradition
of criminals, concluded January 5, 1877, and proclaimed February 21, 1877, (19 Stat. 650,) it was provided, that persons
should be delivered up according to the provisions of the convention, who should have been charged with, or convicted of,
any of the following crimes "12. The embezzlement of publib funds, committed within the jurisdiction of one or the
•othqr party, by public officers or depositaries."
By a supplemental convention between the United States
and the kingdom of Spain, concerning extradition, concluded
August 7,1882, and proclaimed April 19, 1883, (22 Stat. 991,)
section 12, of Article II, of the convention of January 5, 1877,
was amended to read as follows "112. The embezzlement or
criminal malversation of public funds, committed within the
jurisdiction of one or the other party, by public officers or
depositaries."
On the 2d of January, 1890, Miguel Suarez Guanes, the
Consul General of Spain at the city of New York, duly recogrnzed as such by the President of the United .States, filed a
complaint, on his own oath, before Samuel H. Lyman, a.duly
authorized United States commissioner for the Southern District Qf New York, charging that one Lums Oteiza y Cortes,
the secretary or clerk of the Bureau of Public Debt of the
island of Cuba, at Havana, and an officer in the employment
of the kingdom of Spain, at Havana, had charge of the public
funds and moneys belonging to the kingdom of Spain, namely,
the Bureau of Public Debt of the island of Cuba, at Havana,
that in December, 1889, the said Luis Oteiza y Cortes (who
will hereinafter be called Oteiza) at Havana, and within the
the course of his said
jurisdiction of the kingdom of Spain, ini
employment, had in his possession, as such clerk or secretary,
a large amount of public bonds or certificates of indebtedness
of the kingdom of Spain, belonging to the public debt -of the
island of Cuba, and being a part of the public funds of the
kingdom of Spain, and that Oteiza, at that. time, at Havana,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

wrongfully and feloniously embezzled bonds or certificates of
indebtedness belonging to the said public debt of the island of
Cuba, of the value of $190,000, and converted the same to his
own use, and also the coupons of other government bonds, of
the value of $500,000, and the stub-books thereof. The complainant, therefore, charged Oteiza with the crime of embezzlement of bonds or certificates of indebtedness of the said
public debt of the island of Cuba, committed at Havana, and
further stated that Oteiza had fled to the United States, and
that criminal proceedings had been begun in Havana against
him for such embezzlement, and asked for a warrant for his
apprehension under the above-named two conventions, that
evidence of his criminality might be heard by the commissioner, and that if, on the hearing, the evidence should be
deemed sufficient to sustain the charge, a warrant might issue
for his surrender. In the course of the proceedings before the
commissioner, this complaint was amended by adding the
words "or criminal malversation" after the word "embezzle-

ment," wherever it appeared in the complaint.
On the 2d of January, 1890, a warrant was issued by the
commissioner, reciting the complaint and stating that Oteiza
was charged by it "with having committed the crime of embezzlement or criminal malversation of public funds within the
jurisdiction of the kingdom of Spain," and that such crime
was enumerated and provided for by the two conventions
before mentioned. The warrant was directed to the marshal
or any deputy, and commanded that Oteiza be apprehended
and brought before the commissioner, in order that the evidence of his criminality might be heard. Oteiza was arrested,
and evidence in the matter on both sides was heard by the
commissioner. On the 13th of March, 1890, the commissioner
certified that, on the examination and the hearings which had
been had, he deemed the evidence sufficient to sustain the
charge, and that he committed the accused to the custody of
the marshal, to be held until a warrant for his surrender
should issue according to the stipulations of the treaty, or he
should be otherwise dealt with according to law
On the 14th of March. 1890. a writ of habeas corpus, to

IN RE LUIS OTEIZA

Y

CORTES.

Opimon of the Court.

bring the body of Oteiza before the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, directed to John W Jacobus, the marshal of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, and to the warden of
the jail, and a writ of cer iorari to the commissioner, to transmit the proceedings to the said Circuit Court, were allowed by
Judge Lacombe. These writs were returnable on the 28th of
March, 1890. The case was heard by Judge Lacombe in the
Circuit Court, and on the 18th of April, 1890, that court made
an order discharging the writ of habeas co?:pus. Oteiza has
appealed to this court.
In his opinion in the matter, which forms part of the record,
Judge Lacombe arrives at the conclusion, that either the coupons alleged to have been abstracted- by Oteiza were public
funds, or that, by discharging the functions of his office falsely
and with corrupt intent, he had got possession of certain moneys which were public funds, paid out by the Spanish Bank of
the island of Cuba, which would not have passed from the
possession of that bank to his own possession, except as a consequence of his official action, that he, therefore, obtained
charge of such moneys by virtue of his office, and thereupon
converted them to his own use, that his acts were, therefore,
within the terms of article 401 of the Spanish penal code of
Cuba, which is a part of Title VII. "Of the crimes of public
employes in the discharge of their duties," and of chapter 10
therein, entitled "Malversation of public funds," and reads as
follows "Art. 401. A public officer, who, having char~ge of
public effects or funds by virtue of his office, takes or allows
others to take the same, shall be punished as -follows," etc.,
and that like acts are made punishable by section 5138 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, and by section 165 of
the Penal .Code of New York. The. judge also refers to the
warrant of arrest issued against Oteiza in Cuba, as specifically
stating the -offence which it was claimed he had committed.
From that warrant it appears that the complaint against
Oteiza in Cuba was for having committed the crime of "embezzlement of public funds" as a public officer.
We are ofopinionthatthe -order of the Circuit Court, refus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to discharge Oteiza, must be affirmed.

A writ of habeas

corpus in a case of extradition cannot perform the office of a
writ of error. If the commissioner has jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the person of the accused, and the offence
charged is within the terms of a treaty of extradition, and the
commissioner, in arriving at a decision to hold the accused, has
before him competent legal evidence on which to exercise his
judgment as to whether the facts are sufficient to establish the
criminality of the accused, for the purposes of extradition,
such decision of the commissioner cannot be reviewed bv a
Circuit Court or by this court, on habeas corpus5 either orginally or by appeal.
In the case of Benson v .2M1clahon, 127 U S. 457, 461,
462, 463, which was an appeal to this court from an order
of a Circuit Court of the United States, denying a discharge
to a prisoner, on a writ of habeas corpus issued by that court
to a United States marshal, in a case of extradition, where a
United States commissioner had held the accused by a final
commitment, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said
"Several questions in regard to the introduction of evidence,
which Ivere raised before the commissioner, some of them
concerning the sufficiency of the authentication of papers and
depositions taken in. Mexico, and as to the testimony of persons supposed to be expert in the ]aw of that country regarding the subject, are found in the record, which we do not
think require notice here. The writ of habeas corpus, directed
to the marshal of the Southern District of New York, does
The main question to.
not operate as a writ of error.
be considered upon such a writ of abeas corpus must behad the commissioner jurisdiction to hear and decide upon the
complaint made by the Mexican consul, and also, was there
sufficient legal ground for his action in committing the prisoner to await the requisition of the Mexican authorities 2
We are of opinion that the proceeding before the
commissioner is not to be regarded as in the nature of a final
trial, by which the prisoner could be convicted or acquitted of
the crime charged against him, but rather of the character of
those preliminary examinations, which take place every day

Wl'RE LUIS OTEIZA

Y

CORTES.

Opinon of the Court.

m this country, before an examining or committing magistrate, for the purpose of determining whether a case is made
out which will justify the holding of the accused, either by
imprisonment or under bail, to ultimately answer to an indictment or other proceeding in which he shall be finally tried
upon the charge made against him. The language of the
treaty which we have cited, above quoted, explicitly provides
that 'the commission of the crime shall be so established as
.that the laws of the country in which the fugitive or the person
so accused shall be found would justify his or her apprehension
and commitment for trial, if the crime had been there committed.' This describes the proceedings in these preliminary
examinations as accurately as language can well do it. The
act of Congress conferring jurisdiction upon the commissioner,
or other examining officer, it may be noted in this connection,
says, that if he deems the evidence sufficient to sustain the
charge under the provisions of the treaty, he shall certify the
same, together with a copy of all the testimony, and issue his
warrant for the commitment of the person so charged." In
the present case, article 1 of the convention of January 5,1877,
provides that the surrender of the accused "shall take place
only upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws
of the place where the fugitive or person so charged shall be
found, would justify his apprehension and commitment* for
trial, if the crime or offence had been there committed." In
e1Airon, supra, the court prothe opinion in Benson v
ceeds "We are not sitting in this court on the trial of the
prisoner, with power to pronounce him guilty and punish him,
or declare him innocent and'acquit him. We are now engaged
simply in an inquiry as to whether, under the construction of
the act of Congress and the treaty' ntered into between this
country and Mexico, there was legal evidence before the commissioner to justify him in exercising his power to commit the
person accused to custody, to await the requisition of the
M exican government:"
Without discussing the questions raised in the present case,
it is sufficient to say that we .concur in the views of Judge
Lacombe.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The only point raised on behalf of Oteiza which we deem
it important to notice is fiis offer to introduce in evidence
before the commissioner, on his own part, certificates, made by
public officers in Cuba, as .to the existence of certain facts, and
also certain copies of papers, and certain ex Pa rte depositions
in writing taken in Cuba before a notary public, all of which
were sought to be made evidence under certificates made by
the consul general of the United States at Havana, certifying
that the papers were properly and legally authenticated so as
to entitle them to be received "in the tribunals, of Cuba as
-evidence in defence of a charge of embezzlement, and as evidence in defence of said charge upon a preliminary hearing
before a committing magistrate, and as evidence in defence of
said charge in an extradition proceeding upon a hearing before
a competent magistrate, and especially as evidence in all the
cases enumerated, where said charge of embezzlement is made
against Don Luis de Oteiza y Cortes."
It is supposed that these documents were admissible in
evidence by virtue of the provisions of section 5 of the act of
August .3, 1882, c. 378, 22 Stat. 216, which reads as follows
" Sec. 5. That in all cases where any depositions, warrants
or other papers, or copies thereof, shall be offered in evidence
upon the hearing of any extradition case under title sixty-six
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, such depositions,
,warrants and other papers, or the copies thereof, shall be
received an1 admitted as evidence on such hearing for all the
purposes of such hearing, if they shall be properly and legally
authenticated so as to entitle them to be received for similar
purposes by the tribunals of the foreign country from which
the accused party shall have escaped, and the certificate of
the principal diplomatic or consular officer of the United
States, resident in such foreign country, shall be proof that
any deposition, warrant or other paper, or copies thereof, so
offered are authenticated in the manner required by this act."
We are of opinion that section 5 of the act of August 3,
1882, applies only to papers or copies thereof, which are offered
in evidence by the prosecution to establish the criminality of
the person apprehended, and that it does not apply to doc-

IN RE LUIS OTEIZA

Y

CORTES,

Opmon of the Court.

uments or depositions offered on the part of the accused, any
more than did the provisions of section 5271 of the Revised
Statutes, either as originally enacted or as amended by the
act of June 19, 1876, c. 133, 19 Stat. 59.
This view was held by Judge Brown, in the District Court
for the Southern District of New York, in March, 1883, in
In re Jadge,, 15 Fed. Rep. 864. In that case, the commissioner had refused to adjourn the proceedings before, him
in order to enable the accused to procure depositions from
England, to establish an aZib. Judge Brown considered the
act of August 3, 1882, and held that while -it was the duty of
the commissioner, under section 3 of that act, to take such
evidence of oral witnesses as-should be offered by the accused,
the statute did not apply to testimony obtained upon commission or by deposition, adding that, so far as he was &wae,
there was no warrant,. according to the law or the practice
before committing magistrates in the State of New York,
for receiving testimony by commission or by the depositions
of foreign witnesses taken abroad, and that all the provisions
of the law and the statutes contemplated tl~e production- of
the-defendant's witnesses in person before fhe magistrate 'for
exanination by him. The order dismissing the. writ of habeas.
eorpus in that case was affirmed by the Circuit Court, held
by Judge Wallace, in In 'eTadge,'21 Blatchford, 300. He
said. "The depositions and proofs presented a sufficient case
to the commissioner for the exercise of his judicial discretion,
and his judgment cannot be reviewed upon this proceeding.
He is made the judge of the weight and effect of the evidence,
and this court cannot review his action, when there was
sufficient competent evidence before him to authorize him to
decide the merits of the case."
In the case of In re AtcPhun, 24 Blatchford, 254, in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, before
Judge Brown, in -arch,
1887," on a ha3eas co7pus m an
extradition case, it was held that the words "for similar pur'poses" in the 5th section of the act of August :3,-1882, must
receive the same construction. they had rdceved under the
act..of June 22, 1860, c. 184, 12 Stat. 84, whch was that
voL. cxxx-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

they meant "as evidence of criminality," and that the same
construction had been given to similar words in prior statutes,
citing n "reIHenrimh, 5 Blatchford, 414, 424, and In re Farez,
7 Blatchford, 345, 353. We concur in this view
Since the close of the oral argument we have been furnished
with a printed brief on the part of the appellant, which we
have examined, but we do not deem it necessary to make any
further observations on the case.
The order of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

SALOY v. BLOCH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 92. Argued December 18, 19, 1889.-Decided May 23, 1890.
Saloy, being the owner of a plantation in Louisiana, leased it to P. B.
Dragon and Athanase Dragon. The Dragons arranged with Bloch to
furnish them with goods, supplies and moneys necessary to carry on the
plantation, for which he was to have a factor's lien or privilege on the
crops, which were also to be consigned to him for sale. Saloy contracted
before the same notary as follows " And here appeared and intervened
herein Bertrand Saloy, who, after having read and taken cognizance of
what is hereinbefore written, declared that he consents and agrees that
°his claim and demands as lessor of the aforesaid Monsecours plantation
shall be subordinate and inferior in rank to the claims and privileges of
said Bloch as the furnisher of supplies or for advances furnished under
this contract, and that said Bloch shall be reimbursed from the crops
of 1883 made on said place the full amount of his advances hereunder
without regard and in preference to the demands of said Saloy for the
rental of said plantation, provided, however, that three hundred and
fifty sacks of seed rice shall remain or be left on said plantation out of
the crop of this year for the purposes thereof for the year 1884;" Held,
(1) That under the laws of Louisiana the privilege or lien of the landlord over the crops of the tenant was superibr to that of the
factor (2) That the effect of Saloy's agreement was only the waiver of that
priority and that it did not commit him in any degree to the fulfilment by the Dragons of their agreements with Bloch;
(3) That if Saloy asserted his privilege by taking possession of the

