MASON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

"It is also agreed that a jury is waived in said matter. The
above coupons are as are as follows -.,61 of series 8; 9 and 10
and 51 of series 7,being 234: coupons.
"It is further stipulated that said bonds, and coupons are
identical in character with the bonds and coupons in the
matter of Sk nner v Town of East Oaland, tried in this
court and appealed to the U. S. Supreme Court, tried there.
and reported in 94 U S. 255, and issued in same manner, the
only difference being that these&bonds and coupons were
issued by the town of Paris instead of the town of East
Oakland.
"In case of appeal 'to the U. S. Supreme, Court this case
may be submitted under rule 20 on written briefs."
'Judgment below for the defendant, to review which the
plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
.fr George A. Sanders for plaintiff in error.
Mr 1B. B. Eamon for defendant in error.
PER Cu Ru. The judgment in this case is affirmed on the
authority of Glenn v Fant,134: U. S.398, 1?atmond v Terre,
bontte Paish,132 U. S. 19; Andesv Slauson, 130 U, S.435,
and Bond v Dustm, 112 U. S.604, and cases cited.
Affirmed-

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
lo. 214. Submitted May 5, 1890.-Decided Mayi9, 1890.

A postmaster and the sureties on his 6fficial bopd being sued jointly for a
breach of the bond, he and a part of'the sureties appeared and defended;
the suit was abated as to one of the sureties who had died; and the other
sureties made default, and judgment of default was entered against them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
On the trial a verdict was returned for the plaintiff, whereupon judgment
was entered against the principal and all the sureties for the amount of
the verdict. The sureties who had appeared sued out a writ of error to
this judgment without joining the principal or the sureties who had made
default. The plaintiff in error moved to amend the writ of error by adding the omitted parties as plaintiffs in error, or for a severance of those
parties; Held, that the motion must be denied.

THIs was an action against the postmaster of Chicago and

the sureties upon his official bond, the alleged breach being
that he had not accounted to the United States for large sums
of money received by him from the sale of postage stamps knd
other sources connected with the postal service. The principal defence was that the moneys had been deposited in a bank
which had failed, and which was a designated depositary of
public moneys. The process was against the postmaster and
seven of the sureties, jointly Two of the sureties died before
triaJ, and the suit was abated as to them. Two appeared, and,
together with the postmaster, went to trial in defence. The
default of the remaining three sureties was taken before proceeding to trial. The jury assessed the damages at $116,559.14, and judgment was entered therein against all the remaining parties impleaded, (the postmaster and five sureties,)
"and that the United States have execution thereof." To this
judgment two of the sureties sued out a writ of error, without
joining the other parties, or summons and severance.
The case was reached on the docket on the 19th of March,
1890. The counsel for plaintiffs in error commenced the opening of the case, but the court, upon examination of the record,
declined to hear further argument for the present, and ordered
the case to be passed.
On the 5th of May, 1890, the counsel for the plaintiffs in
error, made the following motion
"And now comes Carlisle Mason, John Alston, John McArthur, James Steele, Thomas S. Dobbins and Solomon
McKichan, who, jointly, and severally, move for leave to
amend the writ of error by inserting therein their names, they
being all of the defendants in the judgment rendered by the

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Circuit Court for the Northern District of flinois, on the 16th
day of July, 1886, and also by a similar amendment to the citation and bond,
"And that the said John McArthur may be allowed to join
in the errors assigned by the said Carlisle Mason, and John
AIston,
"Or, in case said application cannot be allowed, that an order
and judgment of severance be entered so that the judgment
rendered in the court below against said John McArthur,
James Steele, Thomas S. Dobbins, and Solomon McKichan
may be allowed to stand, and the said Carlisle Mason and
John Alston permitted to prosecute the writ of error and their
assignments made upon the record herein.
"Or, that such other and further order may be entered as
,may be consistent with the rules and practice of this court in
order to permit a review of the rulings and decisions of the
court below
"W C. GOUDY,
"A torney for the above-named persons."
The following papers were fied with this motion.
"The undersigned, John-McArthur, James Steele, Thomas S.
Dobbms and Solomon. McKichan,,,agaihst whom, with Carlisle
Mason and John Alston, ajudgment was rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States on the fourteenth day of July,
1886, in favor of the United States of America, for three hundred thousand dollars debt, to be satisfied upon making the
sum of $108,648.50 damages, together with, costs, and from
-which judgment a writ of error was -prosecuted and is now
pending in the Supreme Court of the United States.
"Do hereby enter our appearance in the Supreme Court of
the United States and consent to an amendment of the writ of
error in any way which said court may see proper to allow,
and also, if permitted by the court, join in the.assignments of
error, and, in case that shall not be allowed, consent to a judgment of severance so that the said writ of error may be prosecuted by our -co-defendants in said judgment, Carlisle Mason
and John Aiston, and to any further order.that may be,neces-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

sary to enable the plaintiffs in error to prosecute said suit in
said Supreme Court.

" JOHN

"JAMES

M%{CARTHUR,
STEELE,

"SOLOMON MOKICHAN,
THOMAS S. IDOBBINS,

"By his attorney,
" WILLIAM C. GoUty."
"SUPRE-ME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, OCToBER

"Carlisle Mason and John Alston,
Plaintiffs m Error,

}

TERM, 1889.

No. 214.

V.

The United States.
"In error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
C. Goudy, being sworn, says that he represented John
"Wm.
McArthur, Carlisle Mason, John Alston, James Steele and
Thomas S. iDobbins, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois in this suit commenced by
the United States against them and others, from about the first
of January, 1878, in connection with John W Ela until some
time in the year 1885, when this deponent assumed the sole
defence for said persons, the said John W Ela becoming unable to attend to the business at that time because of sickness.
"That the deponent represented all of said persons on the
trial in 1886, which resulted in the judgment of July14, 1886,
and was authorized to take all such steps in their behalf, as
were necessary to bring the case to the Supreme Court of the
United States for review That he procured the writ of error,
which now appears in the record, from the clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois, supposing that the cause would be brought to this
court for review of the alleged errors in the court below, the
same as if said writ of error had named all of the defendants
in said judgment, and that if the same should be reversed,
that it would be reversed as to all, that being the practice in

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the State of Illinois, and that his attention was not called to
the practice prevailing in the Supreme Court until the cause
came on for argument. Deponent further says that he had
authority to have used the names of John McArthur, John
Alston, Carlisle Mason, James Steele and Thomas S. Dobbins
in the prosecution of a writ of error, and that as he understands it, he had the right to use the name of Solomon McKichan in connection with the other defendants, according to
the rules of law, but the deponent further says that he. now
perceives that said writ of error is defective in describing the
suit as one between the United States of America, plaintiff,
and Carlisle Mason, John Alston and others, defendants, when
the writ should have named all of the defendants in the judgment for the purpose of correctly describing the suit, and
that the same error exists in the citation, and the suit should.
have been docketed in this court in the names of all of the
defendants in said judgment.
"The deponent further says that he has procured the signatures of John McArthur, James Steele and Solomon McKichan to a paper attached hereto entering their appearance
and consent to such proceedings as may be necessary to
enable the court to determine the errors assigned, and that he
could have procured the personal signature of Thomas S.
Dobbins, the remaining defendant, except for the reason of
his absence from Chicago, his place of residence, in Colorado
at some point which deponent has been unable to ascertain in
time to procure the signature during the. present term, and
for that reason he has exercised the authority which he has
as attorney by signing the name of said Thomas S. Dobbins to
said paper. And deponent further says that he has been fully
authorized to sign all the said names except that of Solomon
McKichan, as attorney, without obtaining their consent at the
present time, but that he preferred having them append their
signatures in person to such consent and has done so as far
as possible at the present time.
"WILMi
C. Gouny.
"Subscribed-and sworn before me this 1st day of May, 1890.
"J. L. McKrriicK,

"Notary Public."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

PER CuRIm. (May 19, 1890) The motion for leave to amend
the writ of error, citation and bond inthis cause is denied, and
DiM
snsed.
the writ of error is
-Mr TF C. Goudy for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr Soliutor Generalfor defendants in error.

IN IRE BURRUS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 10.

Original.

JI890.
Submitted March 10,1890.- Decided May 19,

A District Court of the United States has no authority in law to issue a
writ of habeas corpus to restore an infant to the custody of its father,

when unlawfully detained by its grand-parents.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr G M. -Lambertsonfor the petitioner.
J.A John Schomp opposing.
MR.

JUSTICE MILLE.R

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application by Thomas F Burrus to this court, in
the exercise of its original jurisdiction, for a writ of habeas
corpus to relieve him from the custody and unlawful imprisonment, as he declares, in which he is held by Brad. D
Slaughter, United States marshal of the State of Nebraska, in
the jail at Omaha in said State, by virtue of an order of the
District Court of the United States for that district. Upon
the filing of the petition in this court, a rule was entered and
served upon Slaughter to show cause why said writ of habeas
corpus should not issue. To this rule Slaughter made return.
In this return he says that" the said petitioner is in his custody
under and by virtue of an order and judgment of the Honor-

