MINNESOTA v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

=IN[ESOTA v. BARBER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED 'STATES
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 1346.

FOR

Argued January 14, 15, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

The statute of Minnesota approved April 16, 1889, entitled "an act for the
protection of the public health by providing for inspection, before
slaughtermg, of cattle, sheep und swine designed for slaughter for human food," is unconstitutional and void so far as it requires, as a condition of sales m Minnesota of fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork,
for human food, that the animals, from which such meats are taken,
shall have been inspected in that State before being slaughtered.
In whatever language a statute may be framed, its purpose must be determined by its natural and reasonable effect; and the presumption that it
was enacted in good faith, for the purpose expressed in the title, cannot
control the determination of the question whether it is, or is not, repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
This statute of Minnesota, by its necessary operation, practically excludes
from the Minnesota market all fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork,
in whatever form, and although entirely sound, healthy and fit for human food, taken from animals slaughterqd in other States; and as it
thus directly tends to restrict the slaughtering of animals, whose meat
is to be sold in Minnesota for human food, to those engaged in such
business in that State, it makes such discrimination against the products
and business of other States in favor of the products and business of
Minnesota, as interferes with and burdens commerce among the several
States.
A law providing for the inspection of anumals, whose meats are designed
for human food, cannot be regarded as a rightful exertion of the police
power of the State, if the inspection prescribed is of such a character,
or is burdened with such conditions, as will prevent the introduction into
the State of sound meats, the product of animals slaughtered in other
States.
A burden imposed upon interstate commerce is not. to be sustained sinply
because the statute imposing it applies alike to the people of all the
States, including the people of the State enacting it.

Tmis was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus. The petitioner had been convicted of a violation of the statute of Minnesota respecting the inspection of fresh meats which will be
found at length in the opinion of the court (post 318). The

"314

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

State of Indiana having passed a similar statute, counsel intervened on behalf of that State and took part in the argunient
of this case. The Indiana statute will be found in the margin 1 The petitioner was discnarged from custody, the court
below holding the act to be an unconstitutional interference
with commerce among the States. The State took this appeal.
Mr Gordon E. Cole for appellant.
Mr Coles brief were as follows

The closing passages in

I sum up the argument thus
1st. If inspection in life is necessary to detect disease, it
may be required by state legislation, although it may incidentally affect commerce.
2d. If the legislature deem such inspection necessary, and
manifest such an opinion by an enactment requiring it, the
presumptions which surrouna a legislative enactment must
I INDIANA

STATUTE, ACTS 1889,

c. 84.

An act for the protection of the public health by promoting the growth
and sale of healthy cattle and sheep, making it a misdemeanor to sell the
same without inspection before the slaughtering within this State, and to
authorize cities to appoint inspectors. Approved Marci 2, 1889.
SEcT oN 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
That it shall be unlawful to sell, or offer, or expose for sale in any incorporated city within this State, beef, mutton, veal, lamb or pork for human
food, except as hereinafter provided, which has not been inspected alive
within the county by an inspector or his deputy duly appointed by the
authorities of said county in which such beef, mutton, veal, lamb or pork is
intended for consumption, and found by such inspector to be pure, healthy
and merchantable, and for every such offence the accused, after conviction,
shall be fined not more than two hundred dollars nor less than ten dollars.
SEc. 2. That the City Council is hereby empowered and required to
appoint, in each imcorp~rated city within the county, one or more inspectors and deputies, furnish the necessary blanks and decree the fees for such
inspection. Provided, That where farmers slaughter cattle, sheep or swine
of their own raising or feeding for human food, no other inspection shall
be required, or penalty imposed, than such as are already provided by law
to prevent the sale and consifmption of diseased meat.
SEc. 3. Nothing herein contained shall prevent or obstruct the sale of
cured beef or pork known as dried, corned or canned beef, or smoked or
salted pork, or other cured or salted1 meats.

MtN-ESOTA

v. BARBER.

Argument for Appellant.

sustain it, unless it manifestly on its face has no relation to its
professed -object.
3d. No evidence can be received in support of or opposition
to the law, as was held in Powell v Pennsylvan a., but if
such evidence was competent, the burden of proof is not on
those seeking to sustain the law, to show the necessity of inspection in life to detect disease, but upon those who would
overthrow it, to show the inadequacy of such inspection, or
that the inspection of dressed meats would serve the same

purpose.
The party who stands upon presumptions is not required in
the first instance to support them by evidence.
A powerful combine has thrown its gauntlet at the sovereignty of the States and is engaged in a grand duello with
both State and nation. Shall the right of self preservation,
never yet denied to the States by the most rabid advocate of
federal supremacy, yield to the selfish greed of a gigantic,
moneyed interest, and their power to adopt such measures as
are necessary to detect danger be swept away, because commerce in an article in a particular form may be affected
thereby, is the question I herewith submit for decision.
.Mr' James 0
appellant.

Broadhead filed a brief on behalf of the

MrT W C..Goudy and Mr Walter f. Sanborn for appellee.
Yr George T AtcCrary and Mr Wallace Pratt filed a
brief on behalf of the appellee.
.Xr A pheus 1. Snow on behalf of the State of Indiana.
.Mr Louts T Michener, Attorney General of the State of
Indiana, ir Joseph . JoDonald and Mr John M. Butler
were with him on the. brief, which concluded as follows
We conclude, therefore, that the statute in, question is not
an unlawful regulation of interstate commercebut an exercise
of the police power proper, affecting interstate commerce, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

a lawful manner and to only a lawful extent, because dressed
meat, the commodity which is the subject matter of the legislation, being an article of human food, and hence "usually
passing by sale from hand to hand," and being capable of a
quality, state or condition rendering it dangerous to life,
health and property, viz. to decay, disease and infection in
ordinary commercial use without the voluntary cobperation
of the citizen whose life, liberty or property is injuriously
affected and without blame on his part and hence a proper
subject of police regulation by way of inspection, and being
incapable of a legal inspection except under the conditions
imposed by the statute, is properly subjected to permanent
prohibition upon failure to conform to the conditions of inspection, such right of prohibition being a necessary incident of
the right of inspection, and being justifiable on the ground
that dressed meat, when uninspected as required by the
statute, is in a permanently and incurably dangerous condition
to life, health and property in its ordinary commercial use,
because its true state, condition or quality can never be
determined .by any rapid, cheap and "crucial test" - that is,
by inspection, (by reason of the fact that dressed meat differs
from meat in an inspectable condition- that is, in the living
animal - only in the subtraction of those 'tndicta which render the dangerous state, condition or quality determinable
by inspection,) but only by a judicial examination requiring
expense and delay, which judicial examination the State is
not required or permitted to provide for, as respects property
in-its ordinary commercial use, because the expense and delay
of such judicial examination to the applicant would equally
operate as a prohibition to him upon such use of his property,
and because of the expense of the necessary court machinery
for making such a great number of judicial examinations as
would be necessary would impose so great a burden of taxation upon the community as to violate the constitutional
rights of all citizens to their property
We submit, therefore, that the law under which the appellee was convicted is constitutional, and that the judgment
of the Circuit Court of -the United States, discharging the

MITESOTA v. BARBER.
Opimon of ,the Court.

appellee from custody, was erroneous and ought to be reversed.
MR. JusTioE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

Henry E. Barber, the appellee, was convicted before a
justice of the peace in Ramsey County, Minnesota, of the
offence of having wrongfully and unlawfully offered and
exposed for sale, and of having sold, for human food, one
hundred pounds of fresh uncured beef, part of an animal
slaughtered in the State of Illinois, but which had not been
inspected in Minnesota, and "certified" before slaughter by an
inspector appointed under the laws of the latter State. "Haviug been committed to the common jail of the county pursuant
to a judgment of imprisonment for the term of thirty days, he
sued out a writ of habeas corpus from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota, and prayed to be
discharged from such imprisonment, upon the ground that the
statute of that State, approved April 16, 1889, and under
which he was prosecuted, was repugnant to the provision of
the Constitution giving Congress power to regulate commerce
among the several States, as well as to the provision declaring
that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and'immunities of citizens in the several States. Art. 1, Sec.
8. Art. 4, Sec. 2. The court below, speaking by Judge
Nelson, held the statute to be in violation of both of these
provisions, and discharged the prisoner from custody
I re
Barber, 39 Fed. Rep. 641. A similar conclusion in reference
to the same statute had been previously reached by Judge
Blodgett, holding the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois. Szwtft v SutTphn, 39 Fed.
Rep. 630.
From the judgment discharging Barber the State has prosecuted the present appeal. Rev Stat. ยง 764, 23 Stat. 437,
c. 353.
Attorneys representing persons interested in maintaining the
validity of a statute of Indiana, alleged to be similar to that
of Minnesota, were allowed to participate in the argument in
this court, and to file briefs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The statute of Minnesota upon the validity of which the
decision of the case depends is as follows. Laws of 1889, c. 8,
p. 51.
"An act for the protect-on of the public health by provding
for inspectwn, before slaughter, of cattle, sheep and swne
designedfor slaughterfor human food.
"SEcTION 1. The sale of any fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb
or pork for human food in this State, except as hereinafter
provided, is hereby prohibited.
"SEc. 2. It shall be the duty of the several local boards of
health of the several cities, villages, boroughs and townships
within this State to appoint one or more inspectors of cattle,
sheep and swine, for said city, village, borough or township,
who shall hold their offices for one year, and until their successors are appointed and qualified, and whose authority and
jurisdiction shall be territorially co6xtensive with the board
so appointing them, and said several boards shall regulate the
form of certificate to be issued by such inspectors and the fees
to be paid them by the person applying for such inspection,
which fees shall be no greater than are actually necessary to
defray the costs of the inspection provided for in section three
of this act.
"SEc. 3. It shall be the duty of the inspectors appointed
hereunder to inspect all cattle, sheep and swine slaughtered
for human food within their respective jurisdictions within
twenty-four hours before the slaughter of the same, and if
found healthy and in suitable condition to be slaughtered for
human food, to give to the applicant a certificate in writing to
that effect. If found unfit for food by reason of infectious
disease, such inspectors shall order the immediate removal and
destruction of such diseased animals, and no liability for damages shall accrue by reason of such action.
" SEC. 4. Any person who shall sell, expose or offer for sale
for human food in this State, any fresh beef, veal, mutton,
lamb or pork whatsoever, which has not been taken from an
animal inspected and certified before slaughter, by the proper
local inspector appointed hereunder, shall be deemed guilty of

MIN-ESOTA v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.

a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars, or by
imprisonment not exceeding three months for each offence.
"SEc.

5. Each and every certificate made by inspectors

under the provisions of this act shall contain a statement to
the effect that the ammal or animals inspected, describing them
as to kind and sex, were, at the date of such inspection, free
from all indication of disease, apparently in good health, and
in fit condition, when inspected, to be slaughtered for human
food, a duplicate of which certificate shall be preserved' in the
offic of the inspector.
"SEc. 6. Any inspector making a false certificate shall be
liable to a fine of not less than ten dollars nor more than fifty
dollars for each animal falsely certified to be fit for human
food under the provisions of this act.
"SEc. 7. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage."
The presumption that this statute was enacted, in good
faith, for the purpose expressed in the title, namely, to protect
the health of the people of -Minnesota, cannot control the final
determination of the question whether it is not repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States. There may be no purpose upon the part of a legislature to violate the provisions of
that instrument, and yet a statute enacted by it, under the
forms of,law, may, by its necessary operation, be destru 9 tive
of rights granted or secured by the Constitution. In such
cases, the courts must sustain the supreme law of the land by
declaring the statute unconstitutional and void. This principle of constitutional interpretation has been often announted
by this court.

In Henderson &c. v .New York &o., 92 U S.

259, 268, where a statute of New York imposipg burdensome
and almost impossible conditions on the landing of passengers
from vessels employed in foreign commerce, was held to be
unconstitutional and void as a regulation of such commerce,
the court said that "in whatever language a statute may ne
framed, its purpose must be determiifed by its natural and
reasonable effect."

In People v. Compagnse Gengrale Tra-s

atantig.ue, 107 U. S.59, 63, where the question was as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

validity of a statute of the same State, which was attempted
to be supported as an inspection law authorized by section 10
of article 1 of the Constitution, and was so designated in its
title, it was said "A State cannot make a law designed to
raise money to support paupers, to detect or prevent ceime, to
guard against disease and to cure the sick, an inspection law,
within the constitutional meaning of that word, by calling it
so.m the title." So, in Soon Ring v Crowley, 113 U S. 703,
710 "The rule is general, with reference to the enactments
of all legislative bodies, that the courts cannot inquire into the
motives of the legislators in passing them, except as they may
be disclosed on the face of the acts, or inferrible from their
operation, considered with reference to the condition of the
country and existing legislation. The motives of the legislators, considered as the purposes they had in view, will always
be presumed to be to accomplish that which follows as the
natural and reasonable effect of their enactments." In Afugler
v .Kansas,123 U. S. 623, 661, the court, after observing that
every possible presumption is to be indulged in favor of the
validity of a statute, said that the judiciary must obey the Constitution rather than the law making department of the government, and must, upon its own responsibility, determine
whether, in any particular case, the limits of the Constitution
have been passed. It was added "If, therefore, a statute
purporting to have been enacted to protect the public health,
the public morals or the public safety, has no real or substantial relation to those objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights
secured by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the courts to
so adjudge, and thereby give effect to the Constitution."
Upon the authority of those cases, and others that could be
cited, it is our duty to inquire, in respect to the statute before
us, not only whether there is a real or substantial relation
-between its avowed objects and the means devised for attaining those objects, but whether by its necessary or natural
operation it impairs or destroys rights secured by the Constitution of the United States.
Underlying the entire argument in behalf of the State is the
proposition, that it is impossible to tell, by an inspection of

MINNESOTA v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.

fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork, designed for human
food,, whether or not it came from animals that were diseased
when slaughtered, that inspection on the hoof, within a very
short tune before animals are slaughtered, is the only mode by
which their condition can be ascertained with certainty And
it is insisted, with great confidence, that of this fact the court
must take judicial notice. If a fact, alleged to exist, and upon
which the rights of parties depend, is within common experience and knowledge, it is one of which the courts will take
judicial notice. Brown v Piver, 91 U. S. 37, 42, Phillips
v. Detroit,_111 U. S. 604, 606. But we cannot assent to the
suggestion that the fact alleged in this case to exist is of that
class. It may be the opinion of some that the presence of disease in animals, at the time of their being slaughtered, cannot
be determined by inspection of the meat taken from them,.
but we are not aware that such is the view universally 'or
even generally, entertained. But if, as alleged, the inspection
of fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork will not necessarily
show whether the animal from which it was taken was diseased when slaughtered, it would not follow that a statute
like the one before us is within the constitutional power of the
.State to enact. On the contrary, the enactment of a similar
statute by each one of the States composing the Union would
result in the destruction of commerce among the several States,
so far as such commerce is involved in the transportation from
one part of the country to another of animal meats designed
for human food, and entirely free from disease. A careful
examinaton of the Minnesota act will place this construction
of it beyond question.
The first section prohibits the sale of any fresh beef, veal,
mutton, lamb or pork for human food, except as provided in
that act. The second and third sections provide that all cattle, sheep and swine to be slaughtered for human food within
the respective jurisdictions of the inspectors, shall be inspected
by the proper local inspector appointed in Minnesota, within
twenty-four hours before the animals are slaughtered- and
that a certificate shall be made by such inspector, showing (if
such be the fact) that the animals, when slaughtered, were
VOL. cxxxvx-21

OCTOBER TERhMf, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

found healthy and in suitable condition to be slaughtered for
human food. The fourth section makes it a misdemeanor,
punishable by fine or imprisonment, for any one to sell, expose
or offer for sale, for human food, in the State, any fresh beef,
veal, mutton, lamb or pork, not taken from an animal inspected
and "certified before slaughter, by the proper local inspector"
appointed under that act. As the inspection must take place
within the twenty-four hours immediately before the slaughteriug, the act, by its necessary operation, excludes from the
Minnesota market, practically, all fresh beef, veal, mutton,
lamb or pork-in whatever form, and although entirely sound,
healthy, and fit for human food - taken from animals slaughtered in other States; and directly tends to restrict the slaughtering of animals, whose meat is to be sold in Minnesota for
human food, to those engaged in such business in that State.
This must be so, because the time, expense and labor of sending
animals from points outside of Minnesota to points in that
State to be there inspected, and bringing them back, after
inspection, to be slaughtered at the place from which they
were sent-the slaughtering to take place within twentyfour hours after inspection, else the certificate of inspecion
becomes of no value - will be so great as to amount to an
absolute prohibition upon sales, in Minnesota, of meat from
animals not slakightered within its limits. When to tins m
added the fact that the statute, by its necessary operation,
prohibits the sale, in the State, of fresh beef, veal, mutton,
lamb or pork, from animals that may have been inspected carefully and thoroughly in the State where they were slaugi:
tered, and before they were slaughtered, no doubt can remain
as to its effect upon commerce among the several States.
It will not do to say - certainly no judicial tribunal can,
with propriety, assume- that the people of Minnesota may
not, with due regard to their health, rely upon inspections
in other States of animals there slaughtered for purposes of
human food. If the object of the statute had been to deny
altogether to the citizens of other 'States the privilege of
selling, within the limits of Minnesota, for human food, any
fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork, from animals slaugh-

MI1-ESOTA v. BARBER.
Opimon of the Court.

tered outside of that State, and to compel the people of
Minnesota, wishing to buy such. meats, either to purchase
those taken from animals inspected and slaughtered in the
State, or to mcur the cost of purchasing them, when desired
for their own domestic use, at points beyond the State, that
object is attaaned by the act in question. Our duty to maintain the Constitution will not permit us to shut our eyes to
these obvious and necessary results of the Minnesota statute.
If this legislation does not make such discrimination against
the products and business of other States in favor of the
products and business of Minnesota as interferes with and
burdens commerce among the several States, it would be
difficult to enact legislation that would have, that result.
The principles we have announced are fully supported by
the decisions of tls court. In Woodruf v. Parham,8 Wall.
123, 140, which involved the validity of an ordinance of the
city of Mobile, Alabama, relating to sales at auction, Mr
Justice Miller, speaking for this court, said "There is no
attempt to discrimnnate injuriously against the products of
other States, or the rights of their citizens, and the case is not
therefore an attempt to fetter commerce among the States, or
to deprive the citizens of other States of any privilege or immunity possessed by citizens of Alabama. But a law having
suqh operation would, m our opinion, be an infringement of
the provisions of the Constitution which relate to those subjects, and therefore void." So, in Einson v Lott, 8 Wall. .148,
151, decided at the same time, upon a writ of error from the
Supreme Court of Alabama, it was said, in reference to- the
opinion of that court "And it is also true, as conceded in
that opinion, that Congress tas the same right to regulate
commerce among the States that it has to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and that whenever it exercises that
power, all conflicting state laws must give way, and that if
Congress had made any regulation covering the matter in
question we need inquire no further. That court seems to
have relieved itself of the objection by holding that the tax
imposed by the State of Alabama was an exercise of the concurrent right of regulating commerce remaining with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

States until some regulation on the subject had been made by
Congress. But, assuming the tax to be, as we have supposed.
a discriminating tax, levied exclusively upon the products of
sister States, and looking to the consequences which the
exercise of this power may produce if it be once conceded,
amounting, as we have seen, to a total abolition of all commercial intercourse between the States, under the cloak of the
taxing power, we are not prepared to admit that a State can
exercise such a power, though Congress may have failed to
act on the subject in any manner whatever."
In Welton v .Missour, 91 U. S. 275, 281, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, declared to be unconstitutional a
statute of Missouri, imposing a license tax upon the sale by
peddlers of certain kinds of personal property "not, the
growth, produce or manufacture" of that State, but which
did not impose a like tax upon similar articles grown, produced, or manufactured in Missouri. After observing that if
the tax there in question could be imposed at all, the power
of the State could not be controlled, however unreasonable
and oppressive its action, the court said "Imposts operating as
an absolute exclusion- of the goods would be possible, and all
the evils of discriminating state legislation, favorable to the
interests of one State, and injurious to the interests of other
States and countries, which existed previous to the adoption
of the Constitution, might follow, and the experience of the
last" fifteen years shows would follow, from the action of
some of the States."
In Railroad Co. v Jfusen, 95 U S. 465, the court examined a statute of Missouri prohibiting, under penalties, any
Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle from being driven or otherwise conveyed into, or remaining in, any county of the
State, between the first day of March and the first day of
November in each year, by any person or persons whatsoever.
While admitting, in the broadest terms, the power of a State
to pass sanitary laws, and laws for the protection of life,
liberty, health, or property within its borders, to prevent
convicts, or persons and animals suffering under contagious
or infectious diseases, from entering the State, and, for pur-

]UINESOTA v. BARBER.
Opunon of the Court.

poses of protection, to establish quarantine and inspections,
the court, Mr. Justice Strong delivering its opimon, said that
a State may not, "under the cover of exerting its police
powers, substantially prohibit or burden either foreign or interstate commerce." The general ground upon which it held
the Missouri statute to be unconstitutional was, that its effect
was "to obstruct interstate commerce, and to discriminate
between the property of citizens of one State and that of citizens of other States."
In Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434, 443, the court adjudged
to be void an ordinance of the city of Baltimore, exacting
from vessels using the public wharves of that city, and laden
with the products of other States, higher rates of wharfage
than from vessels using the same wharves and laden with the
products of Maryland. " Such exactions," the court said, "in
the name of wharfage, must be regarded as taxation upon
interstate commerce. Municipal corporations, owning wharves
upon the public navigable waters of the United States, and
quan public corporations transporting the products of the
country, cannot be permitted by discriminations of that character to impede commercial intercourse and traffic among the
several States and with for.eign nations."
The latest case in this court upon the subject of interstate commerce, as affected by local enactments discriminating against
the products and citizens of other States, is Walbing v .Xick'sgan, 116 U. S. 446, 455. We there held to be unconstitutional a statute of Michigan, imposing a license tax upon
persons, not residing or having their principal place of business in that State, but whose business was that of selling or
soliciting the sale of intoxicating liquors to be shipped into
the State from places without, a similar tax not being imposed
in respect to the sale and soliciting for sale of liquors manufactured in Michigan. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the
opinion of the court, said "A discriminating tax imposed by
a State operating to the disadvantage of the products of other
States when introduced into the first-mentioned State, is, in
effect, a regulation in restraint of commerce among the States,
and as such is a usurpation of the power conferred by the
Constitution upon the Congress of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is, however, contended, in behalf of the State, that there
is, in fact, no interference, by this statute, with the bringing
of cattle, sheep and swine into Minnesota from other States,
nor any discrimination against the products or business of
other States, for the reason - such is the argument - that the
statute requiring an inspection of animals on the hoof, as a
condition of the privilege of selling, or offering for sale, in the
State, the meats taken from them, is applicable alike to all
owners of such animals, whether citizens of Minnesota or citizens of other States. To this we answer, that a statute may,
upon its face, apply equally to the people of all the States,
and yet be a regulation of interstate commerce which a State
may not establish. A burden imposed by a State upon interstate commerce is not to be sustained simply because the statute imposing -it applies alike to the people of all the States,
including the people of the State enacting such statute. Bobbzns v Shelby Taxnng Dzstwt, 120 U S. 489, 497, Case of
the State -F'reightTax, 15 Wall. 232. The people of Minnesota have as much right to protection against the enactments
of that State, interfering with the freedom of commerce
among the States, as have the people of other States.
Although this statute is not avowedly, or in terms, directed
against the bringing into Minnesota of the products of other
States, its necessary effect is to burden or obstruct commerce
with other States, as involved in the transportation into that
State, for purposes of sale there, of all fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork, however free from disease may have been
the animals from which it was taken.
The learned counsel for the State relies with confidence.
upon Patterson v JXentucky, 97 U. S. 501, as supporting
the principles for which he contends. In that case, we sustained the constitutionality of a statute of Kentucky, forbidding the sale within that Commonwealth of oils or fluids used
for illuminating purposes, and the product of coal, petroleum,
or other bituminous substances, that would ignite at less than a
certain temperature. Having a patent from the United States
for an improved burning oil, Patterson claimed the right, by
virtue of his -patent, to sell anywhere in the United States

M INESOTA v. BARBER.
Opinon of the Court.

the oil described in it, without regard to the inspection laws
of any State, enacted to protect the public safety It was
held that the statute of Kentucky was a mere police regulation, embodying the deliberate judgment of that Commonwealth that burmng fluids, the product of coal, petroleum
or other bituminous substances, which would ignite or permanently burn at less than a prescribed temperature, are
unsafe for illumnnating purposes. We said that the patent
was not a regulation of commerce, nor a license to sell the
patented article, but a grant that no one else should manu
facture or sell that article, and, therefore, a grant simply of
an exclusive right in the discovery, which-the national authority could protect against all interference, that it was not to
be supposed "that Congress intended to authorize or regulate the sale, within a State, of tangible personal property
which that State declares to be unfit and unsafe for use, and
by statute has prohibited from being sold or offered for sale
within her limits;" also, that "the right which the patentee
or his assignee possesses in the property created by the ap.
plication of a patented discovery must be enjoyed subject to
the complete and salutary power with which the States have
never parted, of so defining and regulating the sale and use
of property within their respective limits as to afford protection to the many against the injurious conduct of the
few 1 Now, the counsel.of the State asks If the State may,
by the exercise of its police power, determine for itself what
-test shall be.made of the safety of illuminating oils, and pro,
hibit the sale of all oils not subjected to and sustaining such
test, although such oils are manufactured by a process patented under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
why may it not determine for itself what test shall be made
of the wholesomeness and safety of food, and prohibit the
sale of all such food not submitted to and sustaining the
test, although it may chance that articles otherwise subject
to the Constitution and laws of the United States cannot
sustain the test 2 The analogy, the learned counsel observes,
seems close. But it is only seemingly close. There is .no
real analqgy-between that case and the one before us. The

OCTOBER TER]M, 1889.
Opniin ,of the Court.

Kentucky statute prescribed no test of inspection which, in
view of the nature of the property, was either unusual or
unreasonable, or which by its necessary operation discriminated against any particular oil because of the locality of
its production. If it had prescribed a mode of inspection
to which citizens of other States, having, oils designed for
illuminating purposes, and which they desired to sell in the
Kentucky market, could not have reasonably conformed, it
would undoubtedly have been held to be an unauthorized
burden upon interstate commerce. Looking at the nature of
the property to which the Kentucky statute had reference,
there was no difficulty in the way of the patentee of the
particular oil there in question submitting to the required
local inspection.
But a law providing for the inspection of animals whose
meats are designed for human food cannot be regarded as a
rightful exertion of the police powers of the State, if the
inspection prescribed is of such a -character, or is burdened
with such conditions, as will prevent altogether the introduc
tion into the State of sound meats, the product of animals
slaughtered in other States. It is one thing for a State to
exclude from its limits cattle, sheep or swine, actually diseased, or meats that, by reason of their condition, or the .condition of the animals from which they are taken, are unfit for
human food, and punish all sales of such animals or of such
meats within its limits. It is quite a different thing for a
State to declare, as does Minnesota by the necessary operation
of its statute, that fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or porkarticles that are used in every part of this country to support
human life -shall not be sold at all for human food'within
its limits, unless the animal from which such meats are taken
is inspected in that State, or, as is practically said, unless the
animal is slaughtered in that State.
One other suggestion by the counsel for the State deserves
to be examined. It is, that so far as this statute is concerned,
the people of Minnesota can purchase in other States fresh
beef, veal, mutton, lamb and pork, and bring such meats into
Minnesota for their own personal use. We do not perceive

MINNESOTA v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.

that this view strengthens the case for the State, for it ignores
the right which the people of other States have in commerce
between those States and the State of Minnesota. And it
ignores the right of the people of Minnesota to bring into
that State, for purposes of sale, sound and 'healthy meat,
wherever such meat may have come into existence. But there
is a consideration- arising out of the suggestion just alluded to
which militates, somewhat against the theory that the statute
in question is a legitimate exertion of the police powers of the
State for the protection of the public health. If every hotelkeeper, railroad or mining corporation, or contractor, in Minnesota, furnishing subsistence to large numbers of persons, and
every private family m that State, that is so disposed, can,
without violating this statute, bring into the State from other
States and use for their own purposes, fresh beef, veal, mutton,
lamb and pork, taken from animals slaughtered outside of
Minnesota which may not have been inspected at all, or not
within twenty-four hours before being slaughtered, what
becomes of the argument, pressed with so much earnestness,
that the health of the people of that State requires that they
be protected against the use of meats from animals not inspected in Minnesota within the twenty-four hours before
being slaughtered? If the statute, while permitting the sale
of meats from animals slaughtered, inspected and "certified"
in that. State, had expressly forbidden the introduction from
other States, and their sale in Minnesota, of all fresh meats,
of every kid, without making any distinction between those
that were from animals inspected on the hoof and those that
were not so inspected, its unconstitutionality could not have
been doubted. And yet it is so framed that this precise result
is attained as to all sales in Minnesota, for human food, of
meats from animals slaughtered in other St~dtes.
In the opinion of this court the statute in question, so far as
its provisions require, as a condition of sales in Minnesota of
fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork for human food, that
the animals from which such meats are taken shall have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

inspected in Minnesota before being slaughtered, is in violation
of the Constitution of the United States and void.
The judgment dischargng the appellee from custody s
aflurmed.

IN RE LUIS OTEIZA y CORTES, Petitioner.!
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1631. Argued May 20, 1890. -Decided

May23, 1890.

A writ of habeas corpus in a case of extradition cannot perform the office
of a writ of error.
If the commissioner has jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the
person of the accused, and the offence charged is within the terms of
a treaty of extradition, and the commissioner, in arriving at a decision
to hold the accused, has before him competent legal evidence on which
to exercise his judgment as to whether the facts are sufficient to
establish the criminality of the accused for the purposes of extradition,
such decision of the commissioner cannot be reviewed by a Circuit
Court or by this court, on habeas corpus, either originally or by appeal.
In ยง 5 of the act of August 3, 1882, c. 378, (22 Stat. 216,) the words " for
similar purposes" mean " as evidence of criminality," and depositions,
or other papers, or copies thereof, authenticated and certified in the
manner prescribed in ยง 5, are not admissible in evidence, on the hearing
before the commissioner, on the part of the accused.

PETIIoN for a writ of habeas corpus. The writ was denied,.

from which judgnent the petitioner took this appeal. The case
is stated in the opinion.
_Nl

I'ouqs S. Phillips for the petitioner.

J Emmet 1. OZcott, on behalf of the Spanish .government, opposing.
1 The docket title of this case was. -Lui
v. John W Jacobus, Marshal, etc., et al.

de Oteza y Cortez, Appellant,

