THOMTPSON v. PIENIX INS. CO.
Syllabus.

THOMPSON v. PHENI

INSURANCE COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT,. OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 311. Argued April 29, 30, 1890. -Decided May 19, 1890.
Under some circumstances a receiver would be derelict in duty if he did not
cause to be insured the property committed to his custody, to be liept
safely for those entitled to it.
If a receiver; without the pre,ious sanction of the' court, applies 'fund in
his hands to pay insurance premiums, the policy is not, for that,.reason,
void as between him and the company; but the question whether he has
rightly applied such funds is a matter that concerns only himself, the.
court whose officer he is, and the parties interested in the property.
Where a receiver uses moneys in his hands without the previous order of'
the court, the amount so expended may be allowed to him if he has acted
in good faith and for the benefit of the parties.
When, by inadvertence, accident or mistake, a policy of insurance does not
correctly set forth the contract personally made between the parties,
equity may reform it so as to express the real'agreement.
A policy of fire insurance, running to a particular person, as receiver in a
named suit, provided that, it should become void "if any change takes
place in title or possession, (except in case of succession by reason of
the death of the assured,) whether by legal process, or judicial decree,
or voluntary transfer on conveyance ." Held,
(1) That this clause does not necessarily import that a change of receivers during the life of the policy would work a change either in
title or possession,
(2) That the title is not m the receiver, but in those for whose benefit
he holds the property,
(3) That in a legal, sense the property, was not in his possession, but in
the possession of the court, through him as its officer.
The principle reaffirmed that when a policy is so drawn as to require interpretation, and to be fairly'susceptible of two different- construcditons,
that one will be adopted which is most favorable to the insured.
Although the policy in this case provided, that no -action upon it should be
maintained after the expiration of twelve months from the date of the
fire, yet the benefit of this clause might be waived by the insurer,, and
will be regarded as waived if the course of onduct of the insurer was
such as to induce the insured- to delay bringing suit within the time limited. and if the insured delayed iu consequence of hopes of adjustment,
held out by the insuring, company, the latter will not be permitted to
plead the delay inbar of the suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

IN

Decree dismissing the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.

EQUITY.

pealed.

The plaintiff ap-

.M" J 2M. Wilson (with whom was Hfr Bamuel Shellabarger
on the brief) for appellant.
.Mrb Robert Rae for appellee.
MR.

JU1STICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought, July 10, 1885, by the appellant, who
is the receiver in the case of Holladay v Holladay in the Circuit Court of the county of Multnomah, in the State of Oregon. He seeks a decree reforming a policy of insurance issued
by the Phenix Insurance Company of Brooklyn, New York,
on the 21st day of April, 1884, and which purported, in consideration of the sum 6f three hundred dollars, and subject to
the conditions named in the policy, to insure, for the term of
one year, " E. S. Kearney, receiver for Holladay v. 'Holladay,
against loss or damage by fire to the amount of five thousand
dollars," of which sum, four thousand dollars was on one-half
interest in the Clarendon Hotel, in Portland, Oregon, and one
thousand dollars on a like interest in the furniture in the hotel
building, and, the policy being reformed, for a decree for the
amount insured with interest from the time when the loss
was payable. The loss occurred on the night of May 19, 1884.
A demurrer to the original bill was sustained. 25 Fed. Rep.
296. Subsequently an amended bill was filed, to which also a
demurrer was sustained, and the suit dismissed. From that
decree the present appeal was prosecuted.
By the terms of the policy the amount of the loss was payable sixty days after the required proofs were received at the
company's office in Chicago, and the loss ascertained in accordance with the conditions prescribed, unless the property was
replaced or the company gave notice of their intention to
rebuild or repair the damaged premises.
The policy contained these among other provisions: "1.
If the property be sold or transferred, or upon the commence-

THOMPSON v.. PHIENIX INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of foreclosure proceedings against or sale under a trust
deed-of or the existence of a judgment lien upon or the issue
or levy of an execution against any kind of property herein
described, or if the property be assigned under any bankrupt
or insolvent law, or any change take place in title or possession, (except in case of succession by reason of the death of
the assured,) whether by legal process or judicial decree or
voluntary transfer or conveyance,
then and in every
such case this policy is void."
"4. If the interest of the assured in the property be any
other than the absolute fee-simple title, or if any other person
or persons have any interest whatever in the property described, whether it be real estate or personal property,
it must be so represented to the company and so expressed m
the written part of this policy, otherwise the policy shall be
void;
Note. - By ' property held in trust' is intended
property held under a deed of trust or under the appointment
of a court of law, or property held as collateral security, m
which latter case this company shall be liable only to the
extent of the interest of the assured in such property"
"9. Persons sustaining loss or damage by fire shall forthwith
give notice in writing of said loss to the company, and as soon
thereafter as possible render a paiticular account of such loss,
signed and sworn to- by them, stating whether any and what
other insurance had been made on the same property, giving
copies of the written portion of all policies thereon.
"10.
It shall be optional with the company to repair,
rebuild, or replace the property lost or damaged with like kind
and quality within a reasonable time, giving notice of their,
intention to do so within sixty days after receipt of the proofs
herein required, and until such proofs, plans and specifications,
declarations and certificates, are produced and examinations
and arbitrations permitted by the claimant and had, the loss
shall not be payable."
"13. It is furthermore hereby expressly provided and mutually agreed that no suit or action against this company for
the recovery of any claim by virtue of this policy shall be
sustained in any court of law or chancery until a fter an award
VOL. CXxXVI-i9

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

shall have been obtained fixing the amount of such claim in
the manner above provided, nor unless such suit or action shall
be commenced within twelve months next after the date of
the fire from which such loss shall occur, and should any suit
or action be commenced against this company after the expiration of the aforesaid twelve months the lapse of time shall be
taken as conclusive evidence against the validity of such claim,
any statute of limitations to the contrary notwithstanding."
It will not be newessary to set out the allegations of the
original bill because the case turns upon the question whether
the amended bill states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The latter makes substantially the following case
From the 1'th of INovember, 1883, up to and including the
19th of May, 1884, Edward S. Kearney was the receiver in
the above suit of Holladay v Holladay. From the first of
those dates continuously to" the time of the fire, the hotel
building, with its furniture and the land upon which it stood,
was in the joint possession and under the control of Kearney
as receiver, and of R. Koehler and J N. Dolph, the owners
of one undivided half interest, the title to the remaining half
being involved in the above suit, and in the possession and
under the control of iKearney as receiver. By the order
appointing the receiver he was directed and empowered to
take possession of, manage, control and keep the property
safely and for the best interests of the parties who should be
adjudged entitled thereto, or as the court might direct.
Kearney being desirous to effect insurance for himself and his
successors in the receivership, as well as for the benefit of
whom it might concern, on an undivided half interest in the
hotel building for the sum of four thousand dollars, and on a
like interest in the furniture for one thousand dollars, pending
the suit of Holladay v. Holladay, and having been solicited
by the defendant to take insurance in his capacity as receiver,
it was understood and agreed, on the 21st of April, 18841,
between the company and himself as receiver, that the former
would insure, as above indicated, against loss or damage by
fire, for the full term of one year from April 27, 1884, noon,
making the loss and the policy payable to him as receiver and

THOMPSON v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opimon of the Court.

to his successors, as well as for the benefit of whom it might
concern, and that it would take from him, as receiver, the sum
of three hundred dollars as premium. On the day last named
the company, with the intent to carry this agreement into
effect, made the policy in question and delivered it to Kearney
At the time of this agreement it was distinctly informed that
the property agreed to be insured was in dispute in the above
suit, and that Kearney had no interest in it except as receiver.
Nevertheless, by accident and mistake of both Kearney and
the company, the loss was made payable to Kearney, receiver
in the above suit, instead of to the receiver and his successors,
and for the benefit of whom it might concern, and the policy
was issued without the usual clause, commonly inserted in
such policies and agreed upon, namely, that the insurance
was effected for whom it might concern. It was delivered by
the company, and received by Kearney, in the full belief and
understanding that the interests of the parties to that suit
were insured and protected by it in accordance with the
direction of Kearney and with the above understanding and
agreement between him and the company The company did
not at once collect the premium, but extended the customary
credit therefor to the receiver as such and not otherwise.
On the 14th of May, 1881, an order was made, accepting
the resignation of, and removing, Kearney as receiver, and
appointing the present plaintiff in his stead, such resignation
to take effect when the latter duly qualified and entered upon.
the performance of his duties as receiver. The order directed
the delivery to plaintiff, upon his qualification, of all property
held or controlled by Kearney as receiver, which embraced,
among other things, the policy in suit and the property
insured or intended to be thereby insured. The plaintiff
qualified as receiver on the 19th of May, 1884 , but the fire
resulting in the loss sued for occurred, before Kearney surrendered the possession and control of the property Subsequently to May 19, 1884, the policy was delivered by Kearney
to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff immediately after the fire delivered to the
company written notice of it, and as soon as possible there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

after, and more than sixty days prior to the commencement
of this suit, rendered, under oath, a particular account of the
loss, in wnich was included a statement of other policies, with
the written portions thereof. The proofs of loss were deliv
ered to the company and were accepted and retained by it
without making any objections to them.
About thirty days after the fire and after the acceptance of
the proofs of loss, the plaintiff threatened to commence suit,
and informed the company's agent that he would do so. The
defendant thereupon, by its duly authorized agents, stated to
the plaintiff that under the provisions of the policy no suit
could be brought until sixty days had elapsed after the receipt
of the proofs of loss, and directed the plaintiff's attention to
the provisions of the policy These agents then and there
further represented to the plaintiff that no question was made
as to the loss or its payment, except that the company was
considering the fact that a change had occurred in the receivership. They also asserted and represented to him that
they had written to the company advising payment, and
informed him that it would undoubtedly so do. Afterwards,
on the 27th of June, 18841, the defendant, by its agents,
demanded the payment of the premium upon the policy of
insurance, assuring the plaintiff at the time that the loss
would undoubtedly be paid as soon as the home office could
act thereon. Relying on that representation, the plaintiff, on
the day just named, paid to the company the sum of three
hundred dollars as premium on the policy, and three dollars
for the state stamp thereon. These sums were paid to the
company out of the funds in his hands as receiver. Subsequently, and after the expiration of sixty days from the
receipt of the proofs of loss, the company, by its agents,
repeatedly assured the plaintiff that it would pay the loss
By reason of those repeated assurances and promises he neglected, failed and was prevented, for some time after sixty
days from the delivery of the proofs of loss, to bring suit for
the amount insured. Long prior to the commencement of
this suit the plaintiff applied to and requested the company to
act toward him in such a way as was fair. equitable and just,

THOMPSON v. PHENIX INS. Co.
Opinion of the Court.

to correct and reform the policy, and to adjust and pay to
him as receiver the sum named in the policy; but it has neglected and refused to comply with any of those requests.
By an order entered July 9, 1885, in the suit of Holladay v.
Holladay, the plaintiff was directed to institute this suit, and
take all necessary steps to have the policy reformed and to
recover the amount due thereon.
Do these facts, which are admitted by the demurrer, make
a case for reforming the policy, and entitle the plaintiff to a
decree for the amount insured? -1
The first -contention of the company is that the receiver,
Kearney, had no authority, without special instructions from
the court, to incur expenses or liability for insurance premiums.
In support of this proposition its counsel cites Cowd'ey &c. v
Galveston &o. Railroad-(o., 93 U. S. 352, where one of the
questions was whether a receiver of a railroad company should
be allowed for expenditures made by him, without the previous
sanction of the court, in defeating a proposed municipal subsidy
in aid of the construction of a railroad parallel with the one
in his hands. It was held that such expenses were properly
disallowed, although the proposed road, if constructed, might
have diminished the future earnings of the one in his charge.
This court said that to permit a receiver to determine questions
of that character, and, upon such determination, appropriate
funds in his custody, would sanction a principle that would
open the door to all sorts of abuses. --It added that "a receiver
is not authorized, without the previous direction of the court,
to incur any expenses on account of property in his hands
beyond what is absolutely essential 'to its preservation and
use, as contemplated by his appointment." Of the soundness
of this general principle no doubt can exist, though difficulty
may sometimes arise in its application to particular cases.
Due regard must always be had not only to the nature
and surroundings of the property in the custody of the
receiver, but to the exigencies of the moment when he may'
be required to take action involving the safety of property
in his charge. We do not doubt that under some circumstances a receiver would be derelict in duty, if he did

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court-

not cause property in his hands to be insured against fire.
The case last cited is authority for the principle that, without
the previous sanction of the court, a receiver may icur expenses that are absolutely essential for the preservation of the
property in his custody But if this were not so, and if, without the previous order of the court, he applies funds in his
hands for such a purpose, the contract of insurance will not,
for that reason, be void, as between him and the insurance
company
It appears from the policy that the company was
informed as to the capacity in which Kearney acted, namely,
"as receiver for Holladay v Hlolladay." According to the
amended bill, it knew the precise nature and extent of the interest represented by him, and that he had no personal interest
in the property insured. If the court, whose officer he was,
had directed him to procure insurance, the present objection
could not be urged with the slightest expectation of its being
sustained. And yet, whether Kearney exceeded his authority,
or rightly applied the funds in his hands, are questions in
which no one is concerned, except himself, the court to which
he was amenable, and the parties interested in the property in
his charge. If he was not, technically, authorized to use the
funds in his hands to pay for insurance, still, upon the settlement of his accounts, if he acted in good faith, the court might
allow him any sums paid out for that purpose. He held such
relations to, and was under such personal responsibility for the
safety of the property, that he could make a valid contract of
insurance, although his use of the funds in his hands for that
purpose was subject to the approval of the court. In Tempest
v Ord, 2 Mlerivale, 55, Lord Chancellor Eldon said that
"formerly, the court never permitted a receiver to lay out
money without a previous order of court. But now, where
the receiver had laid out money without such previous
order, it was usual to refer it to the master to see if the
transaction was beneficial to the parties, and if found so,
the receiver was allowed the money so laid out." Upon
this point, Brown v. Hazelhurst, 54 Maryland, 26, 28, is
instructive. In that case, objections were made to allowing a receiver for sums paid by him, without the previous

THOMTSON v, PHENIX INS. CO.

'295

Opinion of the Court.

sanction of, the court, for insurance. The court said. "There
is no doubt of the general rule, and it is a wholesome one, that
a receiver will not be permitted to lay out more than a small
sum at his own discretion, in the preservation or improvement
of the property under his charge, but he should, in all cases
where it is practicable, or the circumstances of the case will
permit, before involving the estate in. expenses, apply to -the
court for authority for so doing. But this general rule, however salutary it may be, should not be so rigidly and sternly
enforced as to work wrong and injustice, where the receiver
-has acted in good faith, and under such circumstances as will
enable the court to see that if previous authority had been applied for, it would have been granted. The justice and right
of the matter must depend, to a great extent, upon the special
circumstances of each case that may be presented." In the
present case, the only question that should concern the insurance company is whether, under the terms of the contract, it
is liable for the loss. That question is to be determined by
the contract it made, without inquiring where the receiver
got the money with which to pay premiums, or as to his
authority to use the funds in his hands for the purpose of
effecting insurance. If the company is not compelled to pay
for the loss in question except as the contract provides, it
ought to be satisfied, especially as the demurrer admits
that, after the loss, it collected from the plaintiff the premium of three hundred dollars which it knew or had reason
to believe came out of funds in his hands as the successor
of Kearney in the receivership.
The next question to b.e considered is. whether the amended
bill makes a case for the reformation of the policy Its allegations, which are admitted by the demurrer to be true, show
that before the policy .was issued, the agreement between
Kearney and the company was, that the insurance should run
to him as receiver, and to his .successors, and also to those
whom it might concern, and that by inadvertence, accident
and mistake, upon the part both of Kearney and the company, the policy was not so framed. The policy runs to 11E.
S. -Kearney, receiver for Holladay v. Holladay." Whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Kearney's successor in the receivership might not recover
upon the policy as it is, (there being no question of limitation
in the case,) especially upon proof that the parties intended
the insurance to cover the interest which the receiver (whoever he was at the time of the loss) represented, is a question
that need not be considered. If, by inadvertence, accident or
mistake, the terms of the contract were not fully set forth in
the policy, the plaintiff is entitled to have it reformed, so as
to express the real agreement, without the necessity of resorting to extrinsic proof. The case made by the amended- bill is
within the decision in Snell v ,sucance Company, 98 U S.
85, 88, where the court said "We have before us a contract
from which, by mistake, material stipulations have been
omitted, whereby the true intent and meaning of the parties
are not fully or accurately expressed. A definite, concluded
agreement as to insurance, which, in poiht .of time,.preceded
the preparation and delivery of the policy, is established by
legal and exact evidence, which removes all doubt as to the
understanding of the parties. In the attempt to reduce the
contract to writing there has been a material mistake, caused
chiefly by that party who now seeks to limit the insurance to
an interest in the property less than that agreed to be insured.
The written agreement did not effect that which the parties
intended. That a court of equity can afford relief in such a
case is, we think, well settled by the authorities."
It is said that a decree reforming the policy ought not to
be made, because it appears from one of its clauses, in respect
to which no mistake is alleged, that the policy is void. If'
this position be correct there is an end of the case, for, as was
well said by the learned judge below, the court will not reform
a contract merely for the sake of reforming it, but only to
enable some party to assert rights under it as reformed. The
clause alluded to is the one declaring that if "any change
takes place in title or possession (except in case of succession
by reason of the death of the assured), whether by legal process or judicial decree or voluntary transfer or conveyance,
then and in every such case this policy is void." It is
contended that there was a change in title and possession before

THO TSON w. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opinon of the Court.

the fire, and that such change occurred when, under the order
of the court, tle plaintiff qualified as the successor of Kearney
in the receivership. If this position be well taken, it only renders clearer the right of the plaintiff to a decree correcting the
policy, for, if it be made to conform to the original agreement, there- would be no pretence to say that the accession of
the plaintiff to the receivership would have been a change in
title or possession, within the meaning of the parties. But
it .is not true that the amended bill shows a change of possession before the fire. It distinctly alleges that Kearney had
not surrendered possession of the property when the fire
occurred. By the order appointing him, his resignation took
effect when his successor entered upon his duties. It may,
therefore, be said that the plaintiff had-,not, when the fire
occurred, actually entered upon the performance of his duties.
But, in our judgment, the above clause of the policy does not
necessarily import that-a mere change of. receivers would work
a change either in title or possession. The title to property
in the hands of a receiver is not in him, but in those for whose
benefit he holds it. Nor in a legal sense is the property in his
possession. it is in the possession of the court, by him as its
officer. Wiswall v Sampson, 14 How 52, 65, Resdtter v
_lizabeth Oil Cloth Co., 112 U. S. 294, 304, Ch'cago Unton
Bank v KYansas City Bank, just decided, ante, 223. SQ that
where, a policy runs to a receiver in. a designated suit, a mere
change of receiver does not involve'a.change in title or possession. If an. insurance company intends its policy to -mean
otherwise it must express that intention more distinctly than
was -done by the defendant. If a policy is so drawn as. to
require interpretation, and to be fairly susceptible of two different constructions, the one will be adopted that is most
favorable to the insured; This rule, recognized in all the authorities, is a just one, because those instruments are drawn
by the company National.Bank v Insurance Co., 95 U. S.
673, 678.
It remains only to consider the question arising out of that
clause of the policy limiting the time within which a suit or
action against the company for the recovery of a claim arising

OCTOBER TERATT, 1889
Opinion of the Court.

out of its proylsions may be sustained. While the validity of
such a stipulation cannot be disputed, ]?tddlesbarger v Hartford Ins. Co., 7 Wall. 386, 389, we do not doubt that it may
be waived by the company And such waiver need not be in
writing. It may arise from such a course of conduct upon its
part as will equitably estop it from pleading the prescribed
limitation in bar of a suit by the insured. It is to be observed
that. by the terms of the policy, the company is not obliged
to pay any claim until after the expiration of sixty days from
the receipt of the proofs of loss at its office in Chicago, and the
ascertainment of the loss in accordance with the terms of
the policy A suit, therefore, within the sixty days after the
loss is so ascertained would, upon the theory of the company,
be of no avail to compel payment if it chose to plead the above
clause in bar of the action. So that, practically, the assured
is limited to ten months within which he may sue as of right.
And yet the twelve months within which suit must be brought
ismade to commence at "the date of the fire," not from the
date when the loss is payable. There are, it is said, adjudged
cases that would authorize such a construction of this policy as
would give the insured the whole term of twelve months from
the date when he could demand, as of right, that his claim for
loss be satisfied. 7ette v ClintonFire Ins. Co., 30 Fed. Rep.
668, Steen v NAiagara Fire Ins. Co., 89 N. Y 315, 322, Spare
v. Home Mut. Ins. Co., 17 Fed. Rep. 568, 570, Atayor &c.
v Hamilton -FireIns. Co., 39 N. Y 45, 48, Hay v Star Fire
Ins. Co., 77 N. Y 2351 244, Chandler v St. Paul -Fire&
Marne Ins. Co., 21 -Minnesota, 85, May on Insurance, ยง 479,
notes 2d ed. We waive, however, any expression of opinion,
in the present attitude of the case, as to the view announced
in those cases, for its disposition only requires us to hold, as
we do, that the allegations of the amended bill, bearing upon
this point, sustain the right of the plaintiff to bring this action,
although it was not commenced until after the expiration of
twelve months from the date of the fire. Those allegations
are to the effect that the company, by its duly authorized
agents, assured the plaintiff about thirty days after the fire

THONPSON v. PHfENIX INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and after the acceptance of the proofs of loss, that no question
was made as to the loss or its payment, except that the company was considering the fact of the change in the receivership, and that it would undoubtedly pay the loss claimed, that
as late as June 27, 1884, the premium of three hundred dollars
was paid to the company, which, by its agents, again assured
the plaintiff that the loss would be paid as soon as action
could be taken, that after sixty days had elapsed from the
delivery of the proofs of loss, the company, by its agents,
repeatedly gave the same assurances, and that, by reason of
'such promises and assurances, he neglebted, for some time
after sixty days from the delivery of proofs of loss to bring
suit for the recovery of the loss sustained. We need not stop
to consider the suggestion that the agents referred to had no,
authority to give those assurances or to make those promises.
INo such question can arise upon the amended bill, for it
alleges that the company, by its duly authorized agents, made
the promises and gave the assurances. What the fact may
be, in respect to the authority of the agents, or whether the
plaintiff had the right to rely upon those assurances and
promises, and, if he did, whether the company's rights were
thereby affected, are questions not now, to be decided. Their
determination will depend upon the answer and the evidence
at the trial. If, as the allegations of the amended bill imply,
the failure of the plaintiff to sue within the time prescribed
by the policy, computing the time from the date of the fire,
was due to the conduct of the company, it cannot avail itself
of the limitation of twelve months. Curtis v Home Is. Co.,
1 Bissell, 484, 48T, Ide v PhtAnw Ris. Co., 2 Bissell, 333,
Grant v .exzngton Ins. Co., 5 Indiana, 23, 25, Mickey v
Burlingtonins. Co., 35 Iowa, 14, 180. In the case last cited
it was properly said that it would be contrary to justice for
the insurance company to hold out the hope of an amicable
adjustment -of the loss, and thus delay the action of the
insured, and then be permitted to plead this very delay,
caused by its course of conduct,, as a defence to the action
when brought.

