HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD CO. v. 'WILLIAMSON.

121

Opinion of the Court.

For the foregozng reasons the judgment of the court below w
reversed, and the case w remandedto that courtforfurther
_proceedings M Conformity With thA-s opmion.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE GAY and MR.
JusTICE BRE wER dissented.

HOT SPRIINGS RATLROAD COMPANY v. WILLIAMI
SON'.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSA$.
No. 93.

Submitted November 11, 1889.- Decided May 19, 1890.

The refusal of the court below to grant the defendant's request to charge
upon a question in relation to which the plaintiff had introduced no
evidence, and whichwas, therefore, an abstract question, not before the
court, was not error.
When a state constitution provides that "private property shall not be taken,
appropriated or damaged for public use without just compensation" a
railroad company constructing its road in a public street, under a sufficient grant from the legislature or municipality, is nevertheless liable to
abutting owners of land for consequential injuries to their property
resulting- from such construction.

THE -case is stated in the opinion.
Mr John -X. .Moore for plaintiff in error.
Mr A. H. Garlandfor defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

LAxR delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of
Garland County, Arkansas, at its February term, 1883, by
Curnel S. Williamson and Fannie G. Williamson, his wife,
against the Hot Springs Railroad Company, a corporation
organized -under the laws of that State, to recover damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1889,
Opinion of the Court.

for alleged injuries done to certain described real estate belonging to Mrs. Williamson, in the city of Hot Springs, by
the defendant company
The declaration alleged that the plaintiff, Fannie G. Williamson, was the owner in fee of lots 1 and 2 in block No. 78
and lot 9 in block No. 69 in that city, that lots 1 and 2 are
separated from lot 9 by Benton Street, which is one hundred
and forty feet wide, and was laid out by the general government and dedicated to the city, with the other streets in thd
city, before the damages for which suit was brought were
committed, that lot 9 lies south of Benton Street, lot 1
directly across the street on the north, and lot 2 lies immediately north of lot 1, that the defendant, a railroad company,
organized as aforesaid, with its termini at Hot Springs and
at Malvern, in Hot Springs County, in that State, by and
through its agents and employes, on and prior to the 10th of
December, 1881, constructed, threw up and completed in and
along the centre of Benton Street, between lots 1 and 9, and
running the full length of those lots, a permanent embankment of earth and stone, fifty feet wide and of great height,
to serve as a road-bed for its railroad track, under a fraudulent
and unauthorized contract secretly and clandestinely entered
into between it and the city, for the purpose of defrauding
and injuring plaintiffs, that the defendant also constructed
a turning table at the southeast corner of that embankment
and the northeast corner of lot 9, and immediately thereafter
proceeded to lay and fix its railroad track permanently on the
embankment, which thereby became and thereafter was a
part or extension of its railroad, that by the embankment,
extension and turning table plaintiffs and others were cut off
from and deprived of the use of that street in connection with
said lots, and their egress and ingress therefrom and therein
impaired and destroyed, that said lots, which, by reason of
their lateral fiontage upon Benton Street, were of great value,
were thereby greatly damaged and decreased in value to the
extent of five thousand'dollars, and that since the dedication
of Benton. Street to the city, the defendant had wrongfully
appropriated 'almost the whole of it for its road-bed and other

HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD CO. v. WILLIAMSON1.

12

Opinion of -the Court.

purposes, thereby wantonly injuring plaintiffs and all other
owners of land adjoining that street. The. prayer of the
petition was for a judgment against the defendant for $5000,
and for other relief.
The defendant answered, pleading ignorance as to whether
the plaintiff, Fannie G. Williamson, was the owner of the lots
described in the petition, and averring that those lots were
located upon Malvern Avenue, one of the original streets of
the city. of ]lot Springs, which was laid off by the city and
opened and' continuously used therepfter as a street, and was
never vacated by the city Further answering, it alleged that
its railroad' was constructed in and upon its right of way
granted it by Congress under the act of March 3, 1877, entitled "An act in relation to the iHot Springs Rbservation, in
the State of Arkansas," 19 Stat. 380, c. 108, ยง.17, and under
the alleged ordinance of the city, which, it denied, had been
passed clandestinely or through any fraud on its part, and
also alleged that the turn-table complained of was constructed.
on its right of way, and upon lots 10 and 11, in block 69, in
the city, which were defendant's own property As a further
answer, the defendant alleged that Curnel S. Williamson was
improperly joined as a plaintiff in the action.
At the trial of the case before the court and a jury, the *following agreed statement of facts, together with a map also
agreed upon as correct, was filed
"1st. The accompanying map shows the location of Malvern Avenue, Benton Street, the plaintiff's lots, and the right
of way granted by Congress to the defendant under the act
referred to in defendant's answer, and approved by the Hot
Springs Commission and the Secretary of the Interior.
"2d. The extension claimed by the -defendant under the
ordinance of the city of Hot Springs consists of a strip fifty
feet wide, the centre thereof on a direct line with the centre
of the right of way granted by Congress,and extending westward to Malvern Avenue, a distance of 130 feet.
"3. The turn-tble is fifty feet in diameter, it is located as
marked on the map. Lots 10 and 11, in block 69, upon which
a part of the turn-table is located, belong to the defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"4th. Gaines Avenue was located as a street of said city of
Hot Springs and opened and accepted by the city in 1876,
October or September, it was 80 feet wide and the northern
boundary thereof was about coterminous with the northern
boundary of defendant's right of way The right of way is
100 feet wide, subject to explanation."
The map referred to shows that Benton Street and the right
of way run almost east and west, the right of way extending
south to the south line of Benton Street. Immediately east of
lot 9, and also adjacent to the right of way, is lot 10, and immediately beyond that is lot 11. The turn-table is located
partly on the right of way and ii part on the company's lots
10 and 11, and appears to be about 40 feet east of the east
line of lot 9, and nearly the same distance east of the western
extremity of the right of way granted by Congress. Ialvern
Avenue runs nearly from the southeast to the northwest, and
.is 130 feet west of the western terminus of the right of way
Considerable testunony was introduced on both sides, on the
question of damages as presented by the pleadings, and upon
that question alone the evidence was conflicting. Evidence
was also introduced on the part of the defendant to show that
the alleged obstructions erected by it were such as are generally used at terminal stations, and were necessary for the operations of the road. One of its witnesses testified that It without the turn-table the train could not be run on the right of
way within the city of Hot Springs without great danger to
life and property, for without (it) the engines could not be
turned and would have to be run in back motion either in departing from the depot or coming to it. This would be specially dangerous at night, as the head-light could not be seen
while the engine was in back motion."
The embankment was described by the witnesses as being
fifty feet wide and several feet -higher than the grade of the
street, and is enclosed by a granite wall. It is 25 feet from
lot 9 on the south, and 65 feet from lot 1 on the north.
The ordinance of the city council granting a right of way
fifty feet wide from the western terminus of the congressional
right of way to M alvern Avenue (130 feet) was also introduced,

HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD CO. v. WILLIAMSON. 125
Opinion of the Court.

and it was admitted that the company had filed its written
acceptance of the same within ten days ,from its passage, as

required by section 4 thereof.

It also appeared in evidence

that the city had, by an ordinance approved February 26,
1883, "authorized and empowered " the defendant "1to erect
all necessary and suitable depot buildings and other structures
incident to the operation of its road within the limits of its
and to mainright of way,' granted it by Congress,
tain and continue the same, or any depot buildings or other
erections or improvements heretofore constructed or made by
it." That ordinance further provided that that part of Benton
Street, for two squares east of Malvern Avenue, "within the
limits of the 'right of way' granted by Congress,
and the extension thereto heretofore granted by the city of Hot
Springs, except so much thereof as shall be required to leave
open the crossing of Cottage Street, [first street east of Malvern Avenue,] is hereby vacated and closed, and the extensive
[exclusive] use and control thereof is granted to the Hot Springs
Railroad Company for railroad and depot purposes."
After the testimony in the case had been closed, upon
request of the plaintiff, the name of C. S. Williamson was
dropped from the complaint, and his evidence was also excluded from the jury
At the request of the plaintiff the court charged the jury as
follows:
"I. The court 'instructed the jury that the right to use
streets in a city by the adjoining lot owners is property and a
right of way belonging to the owner of said lots, and that no
such right can be taken or injured or appropriated to the use
of any corporation until full compensation therefor shall be
-first made to the owner in money or secured to him by a
deposit of money, which compensation is irrespective of any
benefit from any improvenienb made by said corporation.
"II. The city of Hot Springs had no right to pass an ordinance granting the. defendant a right of way along Benton
Street, and defendant could acquire no right to build any
permanent structure or lay its track thereon by virtue of such
ordinance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"III. The court instructs the jury that the measure of
damages to adjacent property caused by the use of a street,
as a site for a railroad, is the diminution of the value of the
property, and the recovery may include prospective as well as
past damages when the obstructions to the use of the street
are of a permanent nature."
The court, upon its own motion, instructed the jury "That
if they believe from the evidence that the defendant, by its
agents or employes, constructed in Benton Street, between lot
9, in block 69, and lots 1 and 2, in block 78, in the city of Hot
Springs, a permanent embankment, as a road-bed on which to
lay and extend its railroad track, and then, or before the commencement of this suit, placed and fixed its track permanently
upon said embankment, as charged in the complaint, that
said lots, or any of them, were or are permanently injured or
damaged thereby, and that said lots were then and still are
the property of the plaintiff, Fannie G. Williamson, they must
find in her favor, and, in such case, the difference between the
present value of the lot or-lots so damaged with the embankment, and the said track thereon existing, and what such
value would be if the embankment and said track were removed or had never existed, is the measure of damages." To
all of which instructions the defendant at the time excepted.
The defendant requested the court to give several instructions to the jury, which the court declined to do, except in
one instance, in a modified form, to which refusals the defendant at the time excepted, but as none of them are relied upon
in the argument in this court except the second one, it is only
necessary to set that one out in full. It is as follows
"The right of way was granted by Congress to the defendant from a point on the eastern boundary of the Hot Springs
reservation to the old Ialvern stage road within said reservation. The grant carried with it the right to erect and
maintain all suitable structures usual and necessary to the
operation of a railroad including a depot, station-house and
such tracks and other improvements of that nature as are
necessary to the proper and convenient dispatch of its business, and if you find that the turn-table and other improve-

HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD C0. v. WILLIAMSON.

127

Opinion of the Court.

ments complained of, or any part of them, are within the right
of way granted by Congress to the defendant as aforesaid,
and are necessary to the operation of its road, and such as are
usual at terminal stations, you cannot find for the plaintiffs by.
reason of any damage caused to their lots by such improvements.!)
The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the
sum of $2275, upon which judgment was rendered, and after
a motion for a new trial and also a -motion in arrest of
judgment had both been overruled, an appeal was taken- to
the Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed the judgment
of the trial court. 45 Arkansas, 429. This writ of error was
then sued out.
The following is the only assignment of error
"The court erred in ruling that the plaintiff in error did
not have the lawful right to construct its works, including the
turn-table, on the rightof-way granted it by the act of Congress of March 3, 1877, and in holding that it was liable to the
defendant in error by reason of the alleged obstruction caused
by said works."
From the foregoing statement it is observed that the claim
for damages in the trial court was based upon two-propositions First, that the plaintiff's property was injured by
reason of the embankment in Benton Street alongside it, west
of the terminus of the congressional right of way, and,
second, that it was also injured by reason of the construction
and existence of the turn-table partly upon the congressional
right of way- no claim for damages ever having been made
by reason of the. construction of a road-bed'.and track upon
the congressional grant.
1,
It is also observed that, while the defendant saved exceptions to the various rulings of the court, on the question of
damages arising from the construction of the-embankment on
that part of Benton Street separating the plaintiff's lots, and
also as to the rule for the 'computation of such damages, none
of those exceptions are embodied in ,the assignment of error,
nor is any point made in relation to them in 'the brief of
counsel for the company In his own language, "The only

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

question before this court is that which arises under the act of
Congress,
and relates alone to the turn-table and
works constructed on that part of the right-of-way embraced
in the grant by Congress. This excludes from consideration
the embankment built upon the western extension of the
track, under the city ordiance, and involves the proper construction of the act of Congress."
The question before us is, therefore, narrowed down to the
ruling of the trial court upon the only issue which the assignment of error presents. Upon an examination of the record
it will be found that no evidence was introduced by the
plaintiff as to whether the turn-table and other works constructed on the right of way injured and damaged her property at all, and the only evidence on that subject was
introduced by the defendant, which evidence tended to show
that, by the erection of a depot and other works on the right
of way, property in that vicinity had not only not been
depreciated, but had, in reality, risen in value.
It is further observed that in its charge to the jury the
court made no reference whatever to the question of damages
arising out of the construction and operation of the turn-table
and other works on the congressional right of way, except
that it refused to charge that the defendant had the right to
construct and maintain whatever structures thereon it might
deem essential to its business, as above set forth in detail, or
that, having that right, it was not liable to the owners of
abutting real estate for damages caused by the exercise of
that right in a proper and skilful manner. Inasmuch, therefore, as the plaintiff introduced no evidence to sustain that
branch of her claim for damages, the court was constrained to
conclude that it was eliminated from the case. She certainly
could not obtain a verdict for any damages arising out of that
branch of the claim without introducing any evidence to support it. The evidence which the defendant introduced bearing on that question, if taken into consideration by the jury
at all, could not have had any but a favorable effect as to the
defendant, but, as already remarked, it was rendered unnecessary by the plaintiff's virtual abandonment of that part

HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD CO. v. WILLIAMSON.

129

Opinion of the Court.

of her claim for damages. There is nothing in the record to
show that that evidence was considered by the jury in arriving
at their verdict, because no charge relative thereto was given
by the court, or could legally have been given by it on that
question. The refusal of'the court to charge upon an abstract
question in relation to which the plaintiff had introduced no
evidence, and which was not, therefore, before it, was not
error.
Whilst we hold this view upon the sole question involved in
the assignment of error, it is proper to, add that we concur in
the view taken of this case by the Supreme Court of Arkansas.
That court held that the act of Congress granting the right of
way to the defendant company over the strip of landupon which
its road was to be operated, (which in this case was along the
line of Benton Street, an original street in the town of Hot.
Springs, and used as such at the time of the passage of the
act,) carried with it the right to construct,, maintain and operate its line of railroad therein, and to appropriate such right
as a location for its turn-table and depots and for any other
purpose necessary to the operation of its road, but that it was
equally clear, under the provisions of the present constitution
of the State of Arkansas, .that if in the exercise of that right
the property of an adjoining owner was damaged in the use
and enjoyment of the street upon which the road was located,
such owner would be entitled to recover such damages from
the company It further held that the contention of the
plaintiff in error that the act of Congress invested it with an
absolute title to the street along which its road was located,
and exempted it from any liability for consequential damages
resulting to an abutting owner from the laying of its track in
a proper and skilful manner, was founded upon cases arising
under the familiar constitutional restriction that private property shall not be taken for public use without compensationwhich decisions generally, turned upon the question what is a
takzng, within the meaning of such provision, that the- constitution of that State of 1878, which' provides that "private
proper.y shall not be taken, appropriated or damaged for public use without just compensation," has changed that rule;
VOL. cxxxvI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

that all the decisions rendered under similar constitutional
provisions concur in holding that the use of a street by a
railroad company as a site for its track, under legislative
or municipal authority, when it interferes with the rights of
adjoining lot owners to the use of the street, as a means of
ingress and egress, subjects the railroad company to an action
for damages, on account of the diminution of the value of the
property caused by such use, and lastly, that even conceding
the authority of the town of Hot Springs to pass the ordinance authorizing the company to construct and maintain the
railroad embankment, track and turn-table complained of, it
cannot impair the constitutional right of the defendant in
error to compensation.
We think those views are sound and in accordance with the
decisions of this court in Pennsylvanza Railroad Company v
Miller, 132 U. S. 75, and New York Elevated Railroad v
-FfthHfat. Bank, decided May 5, 1890, 135 U S. 432.
The judgment of the court below is
4Afflr/ned

LOVELL v. ORAGIIN.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 212. Argued March 12, 13, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

When the matter set up in a cross-bill is directly responsive to the averments in the bill, and is directly connected with the transactions which
are set up in the bill ao the gravamen of the plaifitiff's case, the amount

claimed in the cross-bill may be taken into consideration in determining
the jurisdiction of this court on appeal from a decree on the bili.

In Louisiana the holder of one or more of a series of notes, secured by a
concurrent mortgage of real estate, is entitled to apro rata share in the
net proceeds, arising from a sale of the mortgaged property at the suit

of a holder of any of the other notes, and an hypothecarv action lies to
enforce such claim, based upon the obligation which the law casts upon

the purchaser to pay the pro rata share of the debt represented by the
notes that were not the subject of the foreclosure suit.

