TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARSHALL.

393

Syllabus.

Under all the circumstances of the case, we are satisfied
that the two judges who held the Circuit, Court were .justified
in sustaining the demurrer to the bill. The decree is therefore
Ajff'med.

TEXAS

AND) PACIFIC

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v.

MARSHALL.

MARSTALL

v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC
COMPANY

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

RAILWAY

STATES FOR

TIE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Nos. 293,"1105.

Argued April 23, 24, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

The. city of Marshall agreed to give to the Texas and Pacific Rgilway
$300,000 in county bonds, and 66 acres of land within.the city limits for
shops and depots; and the company "in consideration of the donation"
agreed "to permanently establish its eastern terminus and Texas offices
at the city of Marshall," and "to establish and construct at said city-the
main machine shops and.car works of said railway company." The city
performed its, agreements, and the company, on its part, made Marshal
its eastern terminus, and built depots and shops, and established its
principal offices there. After the expiration of a few years Marshall
ceased to be the eastern terminus of the road, and some of the shops
were removed. The city filed this bill in equity to enforce the agreement, both as to the terminus and as to the shops; Held,
(1) That the contract on the part of the railway company was satisfied
and performed when the company had established and kept a
depot and offices at Marshall, and had set in operation car works
and machine shops there, and had kept them going for eight
years and until the interests of the railway company and of the
public demanded the removal of some or all of these subjects of
the contract to some other place;
(2) That the word " permanent" in the contract was to be construed
with reference to the subject matter of the contract, and that,
under the circumstances of this case it was complied with by the
establishment of the terminus and the offices and shops contracted
for, with no intention at the time of -removing or abandoning
them;

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case
(3) That if the contract were to be interpreted as one to forever maintain the eastern terminus, and the shops and Texas offices at
Marshall, without regard to the convenience of the public, it
would become a contract that could not be enforced in equity,
(4) That the remedy of the city for the breach, if there was a breach,
was at law.

THE court stated the case as follows

These are appeals from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Texas. The suit
was originally brought by the city of Marshall in the court of
the Fourth Judicial District of the State of Texas against the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company, and was afterwards
removed by that company into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Texas. The suit
was a bill in chancery which sought relief for a violation by
the railway company of its contract that it would establish
the eastern terminus of its railroad at the city of NMarshall, in
the State of Texas, and would also establish its principal
offices of the road at that place.
The bill sets out as the written evidence of this contract a
letter from F B. Sexton, E. D. Blanch and M. D. Ector on
the part of the city of Marshall to Thomas A. Scott, president
of the railway company, and the reply of Mfr. Scott to this
communication. These letters are set out as exhibits to the
bill and are as follows.
"M-AsiiL, TEXAS, June 26tA, 1872.
"Col. Thomas A. Scott, President of the Texas & Pacific
Railway Company, Philadelphia, Penna.
"Sir Pursuant to your request we now present to you, to
be laid before the board of directors for the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company, a written statement of the agreement
made at Mrs. King's Hotel, in this city, on the 22d inst.,
between yourself, on behalf of said railway company, and the
undersigned, on behalf of the city of Marshall.
"The county of Harrison (of which the city of Marshall is
the county seat) has determined, in the manner required by

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. -MARSHALL.

395

Statement of the Case.
an act of the legislature of the State of Texas, passed April 12,
1871, to donate to said Texas and Pacific Railway Company
three hundred thousand dollars in the bonds of said county,
payable in gold coin, having thirty years to run, and bearing
seven per centum interest per annum, and to levy a tax in the
manner required by said act, to provide for the payment of
the principal and interest of said bonds, upon the condition
that said company shall establish its eastern terminus and
Texas office at the city of Marshall, and shall locate and
construct at said city its main machine shops and car works,
thereby securing at said city the connections with said terminus provided for by the act incorporating said Texas .and
Pacific Railway Company and an act supplemental thereto.
"We understand that a full transcript of the orders and
decrees of the county court of Harrison County in regard to
this matter has been furnished you.
"In addition to this, the city of Marshall will donate to
said company sixty-six acres of land at the place and in the
shape designated by you on the map of said city, whereon to
locate the main machine shops, car works, and depot of said
company at said city
"The city of :Marshall will procure said land by issuig its
bonds in accordance with the provisions of the act of the
legislature of Texas already referred to, which bonds will be
used in the purchase of said land.
"The citizens of Marshall have already undertaken to cash
said bonds to an extent sufficient to purchase all of said land
which cannot be procured by donation directly from the owners thereof.
"The details of acquiring the title to said land by your company wilt be attended to by the city, and were explained in
our conversation with you.
"In consideration of the donation of the said sum of three
hundred thousand dollars and said sixty-six acres of land, the
said Texas and Pacific Railway Company will permanently
establish its eastern terminus and Texas office at the city of
Marshall, and will also establish and construct at said city

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the main machine shops and car works of said railway company
"Awaiting your reply, we are,
"Respectfully, your ob't servants,
F B. SEXTOx,
" E. D. BLANCH,
"M. D. EcTon,
"Commntee on Part of City of Marshall."
"TExAs

AND

PACIFIC

RAILWAY CoMPANY,

OFFICE OF THE

PRESIDENT.
"PILADELPHIA, July 16, 187N.
"IF B. Sexton, E. D Blanch, A. D. Ector, committee on behalf of the city of Marshall, Texas.
"GENTxErrN I am in receipt of your favor of June 26, setting forth arrangement between your committee and myself,
as president of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company
The statement, as you make it, is satisfactory, and I will. have
the matter ratified at the first meeting of our board of directors, but the absence of Judge Pierrepont and Mr. Stebbins
in Europe for a few weeks to look after our financial matters
may prevent me from getting a quorum of our directors together, but in due time it shall all be arranged.
"Very respectfully,
"ToMAs A. SCOTT, P'es."
The bill alleges that in pursuance of this contract the
county of Harrison, of which the city of Marshall was the
county seat, issued its $300,000 worth of bonds, which were
sold and the proceeds paid over to the company, and that the
city of Marshall purchased, at a cost of $60,000, the sixty-six
acres of land mentioned in this contract and conveyed it to
the railway company This conveyance was by two separate
deeds, and it is pertinent to note that in each one of these
deeds it is recited that the ground was conveyed to the railroad company "whereon to locate the main machine shops,
car works and depot of said company at said city," and that
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company agreed to establish

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARSHALL.

397

Statement of the Casp.

its eastern terminus and Texas office at the city of Marshall,
and also to establish and construct at said city the main
machine shops and car works of said railway company
Shortly after these contracts and conveyances, which were
made and completed in the years 1872-3, the railway company did establish its principal offices at Marshall, constituting
that city its eastern terminus, so that the court finds that
"the contract was duly executed upon both sides, and that
the eastern terminus of said railway company and the Texas
office of said company and the main machine shops and car
works of said railway company are and were established at
the city of Marshall." The bill avers that although things
remained in this condition until some time in December, 1881,
the defendant has since that time moved various parts of its
machine shops and its Texas office to other cities, and, in fact,
has by various changes, not important to be recited here,
caused the city of Marshall to cease to be the terminus of the
road.
In the view that we shall take of this case it is not inportant to inquire what particular offices or what particular
machinery, work shops, etc., of the railroad company have
been removed from the city of Marshall, i or how far the
railroad company has .ceased to hold the city of Marshall as
the eastern terminus of its road. It may be conceded that
the allegations of the bill and the evidence in the case establish
the fact that by the operations of said railway company the
-full and complete object of the city of Marshall in its contract with that company is not now accorded to it.
To the bill there was a demurrer, which being overruled,
there was filed an answer by the company, and upon the final
hearing the Circuit Court entered a decree forbidding the company -from removing any- more of its offices from the city. of
Marshafl, and enjoining it to continue those which remained
there, at that place, and -otherwise to perform the contract.
It did not, however, by any mandatory order decree that the
corporation should restore to the city of Marshall the offices,
the shops and the other things connected with its operations
under the contract with that city, which it had removed. From

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for the City of Marshall.

this decree both parties
denying that there was
the city of Marshall on
which it sought had not
-.J

*

have appealed, the railway company
any ground of relief against it, and
the ground that the complete relief
been given to it.

IFallett Phillips for the city of Marshall.

I. The argument of the company is that the contract was
fully performed by their establishing at Marshall the offices,
machine shops and terminus, and that there was no obligation
to retain them, that the county and city simply relied on the
faith that, once established, the interest of the company would
induce their retention.
The question then is, whether the donation by the county of
$300,000 of bonds, and by the city of real estate costing
$60,000, made upon the consideration that the company would
make Marshall the eastern terminus, and permanently establish
there its shops, car works and Texas offices, left it in the power
of the company, at any time after receiving the benefits of the
contract, to abandon Marshall, make another place its terminus, and remove its Texas office and shops 2
Certainly such a construction of the bargain cannot be made
unless imperatively- called for by its terms.
The first inquiry must be as to the extent and meaning of
the-contract.
The petition of the freeholders of IHarrison, upon which the
election was ordered to determine whether the bonds should
be issued to the railway, specifies "that the said donation, to
be conditioned upon the fact that the eastern terminus of said
railroad shall be permanently established at said city of Marshall, (the county seat,) with its Texas office and main shops."
This was the proposition submitted to the electors and contained in the contract with the county and city
The general prosperity and growth of the city were the
objects of the donation. The conditions of the contract to be
performed by the company were commensurate in their importance with the large expenditure incurred by the county and
city The establishments of the company were to be fixed at

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARSHALL.
Argument for the City of Marshall.

the city, and could not be removed by the company, unless
acting in obedience to subsequent law applicable to the case.
Unless this is the true construction of the contract, no
force can be attached to the provision as to permanency, for,
under the opposing argument, that which was established one
day could be removed the next. In fact the company in its
answer contends for this right of immediate removal ana to
show their understanding of the contract,, introduce a resolution of the board of directors of the company by which it
was resolved "'that the offices be located, uni~l otherwiee
ordered, -at Marshall." What sort of permanency is this,
when it is shown that the 'establishmits were made at
Marshall until "oherwzse orderedi" The case of fead v
Ballard, 7 Wall. 290, relied on by opposing counsel is not
applicable. There the whole question was whether the institute was obliged to rebuild on the land granted, or forfeit the
same. The court held that inasmuch as th- institute, by the
terms of the grant, had to be permanently located within a
year on penalty of reversion, such right of reversion ceased
when the institute -was established within the year, and the
title was not subsequently divested by failure to rebuild,
after the buildings had been destroyed by fire.
IL Assuming the contract to be legal, it is objected that
equity is without jurisdiction. The argument seems to be
that the company should 'be allowed to violate the contract
and the city left to such redress as it may find in an aciicn
for damages.
But can it be the law that the city must give up all the
,public advantages secured to it by the contract and which
constituted its sole consideration 2 Could any pecuniary compensation be the equivalent therefor?
It must be admitted to be very uncertain what damages
could be recovered, unless, indeed, the amount is of the donation, a very inadequate recovery
The remedy at law is not plain, it is not adequate nor
complete.
The case seems to be peculiarly one in which the remedial
and preventive jurisdiction of chancery can be invoked to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

prevent by injunction the consummation of an injury, which
cannot be estimated and sufficiently compensated by a pecuniary payment.

Another objection to the decree is that the court has no
adequate means of enforcing it, because the court cannot
compel the company to maintain and operate the shops at
Marshall, that the decree is in effect one of specific performance.
But were it admitted that the court could not do complete
justice to the city, that affords no sufficient reason why it
should .not repair, as far as lies m its power, the wrong inflicted and threatened, by an injunction, restraining the breach
of the conditions of the contract, especially in a case like this
where the defendant retains the full benefits resulting from
the contract.
In order to sustain the decree, it is not necessary to decide
whether the contract is one which, in the first instance, equity
would specifically enforce. We deny that the agreement was
such.as is contended by appellant, or that obedience to the
decree could only be enforced by undertaking .the operation
of the railroad. It is difficult to perceive why the court cannot prevent the removal of establishments acknowledged to
have been made under the contract.
If the contract, as contended for the company, is one requiring the performance of continuous duties and supervision, that
affords no reason why a court of equity should not by injunction prevent the violation of the contract. It is now settled
by the decided weight of authority, that in such cases, although
the affirmative specific performance of the contract is beyond
the power of the court, its performance will be negatively en[orced by enjoining its breach. Western Unwm Tel. Co. v
Unwn Pacmfio Railroad,3 Fed. Rep. 423, 429.
Mr JoAn _F Dillon (with whom was- Mr Harry Hubbrd
on the brief) for the Texas and Pacific Railiyay Company
-Up .Augustus ff. Garlandfor the city of Marshall.
_Mr Jamnes Turner and XP C. B. fil gore filed a. brief for
the city

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARSHALL.

401

Opinion of the Court.

Mm. JusrIE M ILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the qourt.

As regards the appeal of the railway company, two principal questions are presented. The first of these is, was there
a valid contract that the corporation should not only establish
its eastern terminus at Marshall City and put up there .the
depot buildings and machine shops, car works, etc., included in
the contract, but should keep them there perpetually ? Second, if this were so, is it a contract which a court of chancery
should enforce 2
If it were not for the word "permanent," as 1ound in the communication of the committee of the city of Marshall to Mr.
Scott, we should not think it easy to justify the inference that
the obligation was to maintain forever at that place what the
company engaged to establish there. The clause of the letter of
this committee to Colonel Scott, which first mentions the conditions is, that the bonds of the county of l:arrison were voted
upon the condition, "that said company shall establish its
eastern terminus and Texas office at the city of Marshall, and
shall locate and construct af said city its main machine shops
and car works, thereby securing at said city connections with
said terminus provided for by the act incorporating said Texas
and Pacific Railway Company and an act supplemental thereto." The same proposition is afterwards stated in the same
letter in this form "In consideration of the donation of the
said sum of three hundred thousand dollars and said sixty-six
acres of land, the said Texas and Pacific Railway Company
will permanently establish its gastern terminus and Texas
office at the city of Marshall, and will also establish and construct at said city the main machine shops and car works of
said railway company"
The two conveyances by the city of the land which constituted the sixty-six acres in reciting the consideration for which
the conveyance was made, speak of it, as we have already said,
as an agreement to establish the eastern terminus at the city
of Marshall, and also to construct at the city the main machine
shops and car works of said railway company This shows
VOL. cxxxvi-26

OCTOBER TERM
f, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

that while the obligation of the company to establish its
eastern terminus at the city of Marshall and construct its
depot and machine shops and car works is spoken of at one
time as an agreement to permanently establish these appurtenances to the railroad, yet at other times, when the same
subject is mentioned as the consideration for what was done
by the city and the same matters recited, the word "permanent" is omitted. The object of the city might very well
be supposed to have been attained by the selection of the
city.as a terminus of the railroad, the construction and establishment there of its offices, its depot, its car manufactory
and other machinery, since there was hardly any ground to
suppose that the railroad company would ever have inducements enough to justify it in removing all these things to
another place. And in point of fact it appears that for a
period of about eight years they were permanently located at
the city of Marshall. If, however, the city desired something
more than this, if it desired to make sure that these establishments should forever remain within the limits of the city of
Marshall, and that the railroad company should be bound to
keep them there forever, such an extraordinary obligation
should have been acknowledged in words which admitted of
no controversy It would have been very easy to have inserted
into this contract language which forbade the company from
ever removing the terminus of the road to some other point,
or from ever removing or ceasing to use the depot, or the car
and machine shops, and thus have made the obligation perpetual. But it seems to us that the real essence of the contract was that the railroad company should, in its process of
construction, make this city its eastern terminus, and should
establish there its depot, its machine shops and its car-works;
and that. this should be done in the ordinary course of its
business, with the purpose that it should be permanent. But
it did not amount to a covenant that the company would
never cease to make its eastern terminus at Marshall, that
it would forever keep up the depot at that place, that it
would .for all time continue to have its machine shops and car
shops there and that whatever might be the changes of time

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARSHALL.

403

Opinion of the Court.

and circumstances, of railroad rivalry and assistance, these
things alone should remain forever unchangeable. Such a
contract, while we do not say that it would be void on the
ground of public policy, is undoubtedly so far objectionable
as obstructing improvements and changes which might be for
the public interest, and is so far a hindrance in the way of
what might be necessary for the advantage of the railroad
itself and of the community which enjoyed its benefits, that
we must look the whole contract over critically before we
decide that it bears such an imperative and such a remarkable
meaning.
It appears to us, so far from this, that the, contract on the
part of the railroad company is satisfied and performed when
it establishes and keeps a depot, and sets in operation car
works and machine shops, and keeps them going for eight
years, and until the interests of the railroad company and the
public demand the removal -of some or all of these subjects of
the contract to some other place. This was the establishment
9t that point of the things contracted for in the agreement.
It was the fair meaning of the words "permanent establishment," as there was no intention at the time of removing or
abandoning them. The word "1permanent" does not mean
forever, or lasting forever, or existing forever. The language
used is to be considered according to its nature and its relation
to the subject matter 'of the contract, and we think that these
things were permanently established by the railway company
at Marshall.
A case almost precisely like the one under consideration
came before this court and is reported in 7 Wall. 290, ilread v.
Baard. In that case the ancestor of Mead, on the 7th day
of September, 1847, conveyed to Amos Lawrence, of Boston,
a certain tract of land in Wisconsin, in which conveyance was
the following language "1Said land being conveyed upon the
express understanding and condition that the Lawrence Institute of Wisconsin, chartered by the legislature of said Territory, shall be permanently located upon said lands, and on
failure of such location being made on or before the 7th day
of September, 1848, and on repayment of -ihe purchase money

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

without interest, the said land shall revert to and become the
property of said grantors." The board of trustees of the institute, on the 9th of August, 184:8, passed a resolution locating the institution on the land described in the deed. The
necessary buildings were made, and the institution was in full
operation by November, 1849. The buildings cost about
$8000, but were burned down in the year 1857 and were
never rebuilt. But in 1853 a larger building, called the university, was erected on an adjoining tract of land. Under
these circumstances, Mead, the heir of the grantor, tendered the purchase money, demanded a reconveyance of the
land, and on its refusal brought suit. In that case, the
condition was for the permanent location of the university In the present case, the condition is for the permanent establishment of the eastern terminus of the road, with
its machine shops, car works, etc. In that case the court held
that the contract was complied with when the trustees of the
institution located, by a resolution of its board, the university
on the ground conveyed, and built what was then the necessary
houses for its use. It also held that the word "permanent"
did not require of them to reconstruct these buildings when
they were burned down, and that the title to the land was not
forfeited because of this failure to rebuild, although they built
other houses on an adjoining tract of land, and though part
of the reasoning of the court'is based upon the fact that the
contract in that case required the location of the institute to
be made within a year from the date of the deed, and that it
necessarily meant something which could be done within that
year, we do not see that the principle of the present case
varies much from that. The court said in that case that
"counsel for the plaintiff attach to the word Ipermanent' in
this connection, a meaning inconsistent with the obvious intent
of the parties, that the condition was one which might be.fully
performed within a year. Such a construction is something
more than a condition to locate. It is a covenant to build and
rebuild, a covenant against removal at any time, a covenant
to keep up al institution of learning on-that land forever, or
for a very indefinite time. This could not have been the in-

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARSHALL.
Opinion of the Court.

tention of the parties." So we think of the present case. It
cannot be supposed that the parties intended a covenant to
build and rebuild, a covenant never to change any of its
offices, or the place of manufacturing cars and other machinery necessary for the use of the company, nor that it would
forever keep up, for the benefit of the town of Marshall, this
establishment, when once orgamzed.
But we are further of opinion, that if the contract is to be
construed as the appellant insists it should be construed, it is
not one to be enforced in equity We have already shown
that to decree the specific enforcement of this contract is to
impose upon the company an obligation, without limit of time,
to keep its principal office of business at the city of Marshall,
to keep its main machine shops there, and its car works there,
and its other principal offices there, although the exigencies
of railroad business in the State of Texas may imperatively
demand that these establishments, or some of them, should be
removed to places other than the city of Marshall, and that
this would be also required-by the convenience of the public,
in which case both the public convenience and the best interests of the railroad company would be sacrificed by a contract
which is perpetual, that all of its business offices and business
shall forever remain at Marshall.
It appears to-us that if the city of Marshall has under such
a contract a remedy for its violation, it is much more consonant
to justice that the injury suffered by the city should be compensated by a single judgment in an action at law, and the
railroad placed at liberty to follow the course which its best
interests and those of the public demand. Nor do we see
any substantial difficulty in ascertaining this compensation.
Though there may not be any rule by which these damages
can be estimated with precision, this is not a conclusive objection against a resort to a court of law, for it is very well
known that in all judicial proceedings for injuries inflicted by
one party on another, whether arising.out of tort or out of
contract,, the relief given by way of damages is never the
exact sum which compensates for the injury done, but, with
all the rules which have been adopted for. the measurement of
•damages, the relief is only approximately perfect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

There would be, in this instance, the sums of money advanced by the city, and possibly the bonds furnished by the
county, as a means of ascertaining the compensation due to
the city of Marshall. Other considerations, such as the
length of time that the contract has been complied with, the
value of this compliance to the city, the probable loss of
taxable property resulting from the violation of the contract,
and other elements not necessary to be enumerated now,
might enter into the question of damages, if the contract has
really been violated. On the other hand, the enforcement of
the contract by a decree of the court requiring the company
to restore in all its fulness the offices, the workshops, and
whatever has been removed from the city of Marshall, and
the continued and perpetual compliance with all those conditions by the company, to be enforced in the future under the
eye of a court of chancery, against the public interest, and,
perhaps, manifestly to the prejudice and injury of the railroad
company, exercising to some extent the public function authorized by the acts of Congress or of the legislature of Texas,
present difficulties far more formidable than the action at law
If the court had rendered a decree restoring all the offices
and machinerv and appurtenances of the road which have
been removed from 'Marshall to other places, it must necessarily superintend the execution ot this decree. It must be
making constant inquiry as to whether every one of the
subjects of the contract which have been removed has been
restored. It must consider whether this has been done perfectly and in good faith, or only in an evasive manner. It
must be liable to perpetual calls in the future for like enforcement of the contract, and it assumes, in this way, an endless
duty, inappropriate to the functions of the court, which is as
ill-calculated to do this as it is to supervise and enforce a
contract for building a house or building a railroad, both of
which have in this country been declared to bo outside of its
proper functions, and not within its powers of specific
performance.
The cases cited on this subject in the brief of counsel we
think are conclusive. In Xarble Coratanyv R.pley, 10 Wall.

TEXAS &c. RAILWAY CO. v. MARST-.TL.
Opinion of the Court.

339, 358, it was said "Another serious objection to a decree
for a specific performance is found in the peculiar character of
the contract itself, and in the duties which it requires of the
owners of the quarries. These duties are continuous. They
involve skill, personal labor and cultivated judgment. It is in
effect a personal contract to deliver marble of certain kinds, in
blocks of a kind that the court is incapable of determining
whether they accord with the contract or not. The agreement
being for a perpetual supply of marble, no decree the court
can make will end the dbntroversy If performance be decreed,
the case must remain in court forever, and the court to the end
of time may be called upon to determine, not only whether
the prescribed quantity of marble has been delivered, but
whether every block was from the right place, whether it was
sound, and whether it was of 8uttable szze or shave or _rovorThis question was very fully considered, in reference to a
contract for building a railroad, in the case of Ross v lrnwr
Pacmf§c Railway Company, 1 Wool. 0. 0. 26, in which nearly
all the authorities up to that time are fully considered. It was
decided that the court could not enter upon the duty of compelling one party to build a railroad, and the other party to
pay for it according to contract. See also Port Clinton Railroad Company v Cleveland & Toledo Railroad Company, 13

Ohio St. 544, Soutk Wales Railway Co. v W-ythes, 5 DeG. M.
& G. 880, Powell Dufflryn Steam Coal Co. v Taf Vale
Railway Company, L. R. 9 Ch. 331.
Without more minute examination of the authorities on
this subject, we are of opinion that the plaintiff is nQt entitled
to any relief in a court of equity The decree of the court,
granting such relief is therefore
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court with
directions to dismiss the bill. As the appeal of the.plazntzf therefore fails, st is to pay the costs of ths court on
both app eals.
MR. JusTicE BRuw
wa dissented from both the grounds set
forth in the opinion.

