OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

STEVENS v. FULLER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 1617. Submitted May .,1890.-

Decided May 19, 1890.

On a body execution issued against a debtor on a judgment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, his arrest
was authorized on the ground that he had property not exempt which he
(lid not intend to apply to pay the judgment claun. Notice having been
given to the creditor that the debtor desired to take the oath for the
relief of poor debtors, his examination was begun before a United States
commissioner. Pending this, charges of fraud were filed against him,
in having fraudulently disposed of property, with a design to secure the
saine to his own use and to defraud his creditors. His examination as
a poor debtor was suspended, and a hearing was had on the charges of
fraud. After the testimony thereon was closed, the commissioner
refused to resume the poor debtor examination, and then sustained the
charges of fraud and sentenced the debtor to be imprisoned for six
months. His examination as a poor debtor was not read to him and
corrected, and he did not sign or swear to it, and the commissioner refused to administer to him the oath for the relief of poor debtors. He
was then taken into-custody under the execution and lodged in jail. On
a hearing on a writ of habeas corpus the Circuit Court discharged such
writ and remanded him to the custody of the marshal. On an appeal to
this court; Held, that the order must be affirmed.
As the commissioner had jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the person of the debtor, any errors or irregularities in the proceedings could
not be reviewed by the Circuit Court on habeas corpus, or by this court,
on the appeal.
EABEAS CORPUS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

r Willzam E.Jewell for the petitioner, appellant.
tr Edward IV Eutchzns and Yr Henry Wheeler for the
opposin' judgment creditor, appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinon of the court.

This is an appeal by William J Stevens from an order of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of

STEVENS v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

Massachusetts, refusing to discharge him from custody on a
writ of habeas corpus. The following are the material
facts: William G. Fuller having recovered a judgment against
Stevens, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, for $18,000, an execution was issued
thereon to the marshal, which commanded him, if he could
find no property belonging to Stevens, to take his body and
commit him to jail. Accompanying that execution was an
affidavit made by Fuller, that the judgment in question
amounted to $20, exclusive of costs, and that $20 remained
uncollected, and that he believed, and had good reason to
believe, that Stevens had property not exempt from execution,
which he did not intend to apply to the payment of the judgment claim, and that he intended to leave the State and District of Massachusetts. Thereupon, a comnissioner of the
Circuit Court certified that, after due hearing, he was satisfied
that there was reasonable cause to believe that the charge
made- in the affidavit was true, and that, satisfactory cause
having been shown, he thereby authorized the arrest of Stevens, if his arrest was authorized by law, to be made after
sunset. Stevens was arrested and brought before Henry L.
Hallett, a United States commissioner for the District of Massachusetts, who interrogated him, and he declared that he did
not desire to take any oath, or to recognize, or to give bail for
his appearance at any time, and he 'failed'to recognize or give
bail. Thereafter, the commissioner gave notice to Fuller that
Stevens desired to take the oath for the relief of poor -debtors,
at a time specified and appointed, at the office of the commissioner. Stevens then gave a recognizance for his appearance,
at such time and place, to be examined. He dulyappeared and
submitted to be examined, protesting that the commissioner was
not authirized by law to order him to be examined touching
his property, and stating that he did not waive any informalities in his arrest or in any of the dther proceedings. His examination was begun and continued for some time. In the course
of it, he offered evidence from the court of insdlvency for the
county of Suffolk, in the district, that proceedings in insolvency had been begun by him and were thbn pending. There-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

upon, Fuller filed with the commissioner charges of fraud
against Stevens, alleging that Stevens, since he had contracted
the debt for which the judgment was rendered, had fraudulently conveyed, concealed or otherwise disposed of some part
of his estate, with a design to secure the same to his own use
and to defraud his creditors, and specifying the particulars of
seven different conveyances of land, and a mortgage of land,
and three payments of money, by him with such design. The
examination of Stevens as a poor debtor was suspended by
the commissioner, and a hearing was had before him on such
charges of fraud." Stevens put m a plea of want of jurisdic-

These proceedings were had pursuant to provisions in Pub. Stats. Mass.
c. 162, set forth as follows in appellee's brief.
" SECT. 17. Except as provided ii sections five to sixteen inclusive, and
except in actions of tort, no person shall be arrested on an execution in a
civil action, unless the judgment creditor or some person in his behalf,
after execution is issued amounting to twenty dollars exclusive of all costs
wich make part of said judgment, whether the same have accrued in the
last action or in any former action on the same original cause of action,
and while so much as that amount remains uncollected, makes affidavit and
proves to the satisfaction of some magistrate named in section one, that
he believes and has good reason to believe "First. That the debtor has property not exempt from being taken on
execution, which he does not intend to apply to the payment of the plaintitrs claim, or,
11Second. That since the debt was contracted or the cause of action
accrued, the debtor has fradulently conveyed, concealed or otherwise
disposed of some part of his estate, with a design to secure the same to
his own use or defraud his creditors, or,
" Third. That since the debt was contracted or the cause of action
accrued, the debtor has hazarded and paid money or other property to the
value of one hundred dollars or more in some kind of gaming prohibited by
the laws of tis Commonwealth, or,
" Fourth. That since the debt was contracted the debtor has wilfully
expended and misused his goods or estate, or some part thereof, for the
purpose of enabling himself to swear that he has not any estate to the
amount of twenty dollars, except such as is exempt from being taken on
execution, or,
"Fifth. If the action was founded on contract, that the debtor contracted the debt with an intention not to pay the same; or,
" Sixth. That the debtor is an attorney at law; that the debt upon
which the judgment on wich the execution issued was recovered, was

STEVENS v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

tion as to such charges, on the ground that afl the transfers of
property but one were made by him in the State of New
for money collected by the debtor -or the creditor, and that said attorney
unreasonably neglects to pay the same.
", And such affidavit and the certificate of the magistrate that he is satisfied there is reasonable cause to believe the charges therein contained, or
some one of them, are true, shall be annexed to the execution. If the judgment debtor lives or has his usual place of business in any county in this
State, the application for a certificate authorizing his arrest shall be made
in that county otherwise it may be made in any county."
" SECT. 25. If in addition to the first charge specified in section seventeen the judgment creditor, or some one in his behalf, makes affidavit and
proves to the satisfaction of the magistrate that there is good reason- to
believe that the debtor intends to leave the State, the magistrate may, without notice to the debtor, authorize his arrest."
" SEcT. 27. When arrested on mesne process the defendant shall be
allowed a reasonable time to procure bail, and when arrested on such process, or on an execution, he 'shall be allowed reasonable time to procuresureties for his recognizance hereinafter mentioned. When arrested on
mesne process, if he does not give bail, and when arrested on execution in
any case, he shall be taken before some judge of a court of record, or of a
police, district or municipal court, or a master in chancery, commissioner
of insolvency or, except in the county of Suffolk, a trial justice."
"SEcT. 31. If the defendant or debtor, when taken before the magistrate or at any time when entitled thereto, desires to take an oath as hereinafter provided, and to have a time fixed therefor, the magistrate shall
appoint a time and place for his examination, and shall issue a notice
thereof to the plaintiff or creditor, signed by him and designating his official
capacity substantially in the following form
arrested on mesne process [or exe0DB"To Acution] in your favor, desires to take the oath for the relief of poor
debtors, [or, the oath that lie does not intend to leave the State] at [naming
the day and hour and place"
F(Magstrate).
"E"Notice may be given that the defendant arrested on mesne process as
aforesaid desires to take both of said oaths, and the form of notice may
be varied accordingly."
"S1ECT. 33. When a defendant or debtor has given notice of his desire
to take the oath for the relief of poor debtors, no new notice of the same
shall be given until the expiration of seven days from the service of the
former notice, unless the former notice was iiisifficient in form or service.
But if the oath for the relief of poor debtors has been refused, no application to take the same shall be made by the defendant or debtor until the
expiration of seven days from the hour of such refusal." (As amended by
the Act of 1888, c. 419, ยง 8.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Hampshire, and while he was an inhabitant thereof, and not
within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts or of any court or
"SECT. 36. Pending the examination and at any time after the defendant or debtor is carried before a magistrate, the magistrate may accept his
recognizance with surety or sureties in a sum not less than double the
amount of the execution, or of the ad damnum in the writ if he is arrested
on mesne process, that he will appear at the time fixed for his examination,
and from time to time until the same is concluded, and not depart without
leave of the magistrate, making no default at any time fixed for his examination, and abide the final order of the magistrate thereon. No recognizance under this chapter, except in case of appeal under section fifty, shall
be accepted at any time after the oath has been once refused to the
debtor."
" SECT. 38. If the defendant or debtor has given notice that he desires
to take the oath for the relief of poor debtors the magistrate shall examine
him on oath concerning his estate and effects, the disposal thereof, and his
ability to pay the debt or satisfy the cause of action for which he is
arrested and shall hear any legal and pertinent evidence that may be
The plaintiff or creditor may upon such
introduced by either party.
examination propose to the defendant or debtor any interrogatories pertinent to the inquiry and the examination shall, if required by either party,
be in writing, in which case it shall be signed and sworn to by the defendant or debtor and preserved by the magistrate.
" SECT. 39. The magistrate, if satisfied upon the examination of the
truth of the facts set forth in the oath to be taken by the defendant or
debtor, and in the certificate provided for in the following section, and
if it appears to him that the defendant or debtor is entitled to his discharge
under the provisions of this chapter, shall administer to him the following
" Oath for the Relief of Poor Debtors.
"I [here repeat the name] do solemnly swear that I have not any estate
real or personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except the estate, goods
and chattels which are by law exempt from being taken on execution, but
not excepting intoxicating liquors; and that I have not any other estate
now conveyed, concealed or in any way disposed of, with the design to
secure the same to my own use or to defraud my creditors So help me
God."
"Sxcvr. 40. After administering the oath the magistrate shall make a
certificate thereof under his hand, as follows, to wit.
a poor prisoner arrested
Bss. I hereby certify that ASthe crediFupon execution, (or on mesne process,) has caused Etor (or plaintiff) at whose suit he is arrested to be notified according to
law of his desire to take the benefit of the law for the relief of poor
Bhas not any estate, real or
debtors; that in my opinion said A:personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except the estate, goods and

STEVENS v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

magistrate therein, and that, at the time of the fling of such
charges, he had been adjudged an insolvent debtor under the
chattels which are by law exempt from being taken on execution, but not
excepting intoxicating liquors; and has not any other estate now conveyed,
concealed or in any way disposed of, with design to secure the same to his
own use or defraud his creditors. And I have after due examination of
said AB-,
admimstered to him the oath for the relief of poor
debtors.
,Witness my hand, this day of in the year-.
"A - B(Magistrate).
"Upon taking the oath, the defendant or debtor shall be discharged from
arrest or imprisonment, and shall be forever exempt from arrest on the
same execution, or on any process founded on the judgment, or on the same
cause of action, unless convicted of having wilfully sworn falsely on his
examination. If he is arrested or committed on execution, the judgment
shall remain in full force against his estate, and the creditor may take out a
new execution against his goods and estate as if he had not been committed,
and if he is committed on mesne process, any execution which may afterwards issue on a judgment for the same cause of action shall issue against
his goods and estate, and not against his body. The death of the execution
creditor shall not affect any proceedings instituted under the provisions of
ti4s chapter."
" SEar. 44. If the debtor arrested on execution and taken before the
magistrate does not desire to take an oath, or fails to procure surety or
sureties to the satisfaction of the magistrate as before provided, or if upon
his examination the oath or oaths are refused to him, of which refusal a
certificate shall be annexed to the execution and signed by the magistrate,
he shall be conveyed to jail, and there kept until he has recognized asherem
provided, (if the oath for the relief of poor debtors has not been refused
him,) or until the execution is satisfied, or he is released by the creditor, or
has given notice as before provided and taken the oath for the relief of
poor debtors, or the oath that he does not intend to leave the State, in cases
where such oath is permitted."
" SE r.49. When either of the charges named in section seventeen,
numbered second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth, is made as therein provided, or when the plaintiff or creditor or any one in his behalf, at any time
pending the examination of a defendant or debtor who has given notice of
his desire to take the oath for the relief of poor debtors, files such charges
in writing, subscribed and sworn to by the plaintiff or creditor or by some
person in his behalf, the charges shall be considered in the nature of a suit
at law, to which the defendant or debtor may plead that he is guilty or not
guilty, and the magistrate may thereupon hear and determine the same. If
a person arrested on execution, after such arrest, misspends or misuses to
the amount of forty d6ilars, or to an amount equal to the sum for which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of Massachusetts, by the judge of the court of insolvency
for Suffolk County, and all of his right, title and interest in
the property mentioned in the charges of fraud had becomie
vested in said court of insolvency At the same time, he filed
with the commissioner a motion to quash the charges, on the
ground that it appeared therefrom that the property alleged
was conveyed by him while he was a resident in and a citizen
of New Hampshire, and was conveyed by him in New Hampshire, and not within the jurisdiction of the courts of Massais arrested or committed, his goods, effects or credits not exempt from
being taken on execution but which cannot be attached by ordinary process
of law, without first having offered such goods, effects or credits to the
arresting creditor in satisfaction or part satisfaction of his debt, the'
charge of such misspending or misuse may be filed in the manner herein
provided for filing charges of fraud. The plaintiff or creditor shall not
upon the hearing give evidence of a charge of fraud not made or filed as
herein provided, nor of a fraudulent act of the debtor committed more
than three years before the commencement of the original action.
".S-EcT. 50. When the hearing is had on the charges of fraud mentioned
in the preceding section, and judgment is rendered thereon by the magistrate, either party may appeal to the superior court, in like manner as from
the judgment of a trial justice in civil actions. The trial in the court
appealed to shall be by a jury unless the court with the consent of both
parties hears and determines it without a jury.
" SECT. 51. If the plaintiff or creditor appeals, he shall before the allowance of-the appeal recognize with sufficient surety or sureties to enter and
prosecute ins appeal with effect, to produce at the court appealed to a copy
of all the proceedings upon said charges, and to pay all costs if judgment
is not reversed. If the defendant or debtor appeals, he shall recognize in
like manner and with the further condition that if final judgment is against
him he will within thirty days thereafter surrender himself to be taken on
execution and abide the order of the court, or pay to the plaintiff or creditor the whole amount of the original judgment against him.
"SncT. 52. If the defendant or debtor, after either of said charges has
been made or filed against him, voluntarily makes default at a time appointed
for the hearing, or if upon a final trial he is found guilty of any of them,
he shall have no benefit from the proceedings under this chapter, and may
be sentenced by the magistrate or court before whom the trial is had to
confinement at hard labor in the house of correction for a term not exceeding one year, or to confinement in ail not exceeding six months. But the
defendant or debtor, after the expiration of any sentence, may renew his
application for the oath for the relief of poor debtors, as though he had
not been found guilty and sentenced."

STEVENS v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

chusetts, or of the commissioner, or of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, and that he
could not be tried by such commissioner, 6r sentenced by him
thereon, if found guilty, and also, because all of the charges
were vague, and did not, with sufficient certainty set forth
any fraudulent transfer of any property belonging to him.
Afterwards, an assignment in insolvency of the estate, real
and personal, of Stevens, was made by the judge of the court
of insolvency, to duly appointed assignees. After the close of
the testimony before the commissioner on the charges of fraud,
and before his decision thereon was rendered, Stevens requested that-. his examination as a poor debtor be again taken
'up, and he be allowed to offer evidence of his releases and
conveyance to his assignees in insolvency, at their request, of
all his title to the estates so charged to have been fraudulently
conveyed !by him, and requested also that he be allowed to
complete his own examination as a poor debtor, which requests were refused by the commissioner.
On the 25th of January, 1890, the commissioner gave his
decision on the charges offraud, sustaining them and finding
Stevens guilty thereof, and sentencing him to be imprisoned
for six months in the jail at Boston. Stevens appealed from
that decision to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, and gave a recognizance with sureties. Thereafter, but on the same day, and before any other
or further order or act of' the commissioner, and before any
finding made on the charge in the affidavit which accompanied the execution as to property, Stevens 'again requested
that his examination as a poor debtor, so suspended, be taken
up, and he be permittel to offer evidence of tbe releases and
conveyance above mentioned, and also to complete his own
examination as -a poor debtbr. Both of such requests were
refused by the commissioner, and the'examination of Stevens
as a poor debtor was not completed. No other witness than
Stevens was offered during his examination is a poor debtor,
and no other evidence except such assignment in insolvency.
was offered thereon, except that partly given by him. His
examination was not read to him and corrected, and he did

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

not sign or swear to it. On the same day the commissioner
made a certificate that it appeared that Stevens "has property and estate to the amount of twenty dollars, besides the
estate, goods and chattels which are by law exempt from
being taken on execution," and that, after due examination
of him, the commissioner refused to administer to him the
oath for the relief of poor debtors. Thereupon Stevens was
taken into custody by the marshal of the district, under the
execution, and lodged in the Suffolk County jail, where he
was detained.
On the foregoing facts, Stevens, on the 28th of January,
1890, obtained from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of MKassachusetts a writ of habeas copus,
returnable in that court. At the hearing thereon evidence
was introduced by both parties as to what took place at the
heering before the commissioner on the 25th of January,
1890, and the commissioner himself was examined as a witness. The Circuit Court ordered that the writ of habeas
copus be discharged and that Stevens be remanded to the
custody of the marshal. To review that order Stevens has
taken an appeal to this court.
The Circuit Court stated its decision and the grounds thereof
in these words "The court decided that, although no formal
request appeared to have been made by either party before
the commissioner that the examination of the debtor should be
in writing, yet, as it was in fact taken in writing, and this
mode of proceeding was adopted with the assent of both parties, this was equivalent to a previous formal request that it
should be so taken, that, as the examination was not signed,
and sworn to by the debtor, as required by the statute, and no
opportunity was given him to sign and swear to it, and he
never refused to do so, the examination was imperfect and
incomplete, and had not reached a stage to justify the commissioner in assuming to pass upon the question whether the
debtor was entitled to be admitted to take the oath for the
relief of poor debtors, that the commissioner's certificate annexed to the execution was, therefore, premature and irregular, that this irregularity did not, however, have the effect to

STEVENS v. FULLER.

Opinion of the Court.

render all the proceedings before him absolutely void, so as to
authorize the court to direct the discharge of the debtor from
custody upon this writ, and thus deprive the creditor of his
right to hold the body of the debtor for his debt, but that the
debtor's remedy was rather by application to the court to set
aside the certificate as irregular, and to direct that he might
go at large under his old recognizance, or upon a new recognizance, and that the examination might proceed before the commissioner, and when completed, a new adjudication be made
by him."
We are of opinion that the order of the Circuit Court must
be affirmed. The matters alleged before that court against
the action of the commissioner did not go to the question of
his jurisdiction, so as tomake such action reviewable on habeas
colypus by the Circuit Court. He had jurisdiction of the
subject matter and of the person of Stevens, under the proceedings instituted in conformity with the statutes of Massachusetts. The objections taken on the part of Stevens, at the
hearing before the commissioner, and also urged here, to the
proceedings before the commissioner, all of them went only to
alleged errors and irregdlarities 'in those proceedings, which
could not be reviewed by the Circuit Court on a writ of habeas
corpus, and cannot be taken cognizance of by this court on
this appeal.
It was proper for the Circuit Court to admit in evidence the
poor debtor examination before the commissioner, and the evidence offered before him on the charges of fraud.
It is conceded in the brief of the counsel for Stevens that
the proper affidavit was made and the proper certificate of the
commissioner was annexed to the execution authorizing the
arrest. The points urged before the Circuit Court and urged
here, that Stevens was entitled to have his examination as a
poor debtor read over to him, and to have it corrected, and
to sign and swear to it, and the other points raised by him as
to the proceedings before the commissioner, are mere qilestions of irregularity, not reviewable by the Circuit Court on
habea.s co:pus, or by this court on this appeal.
This rule is well established in cases of original writs of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
habeas corpus issued by this court. Ex parts Parks, 93 U S.
18, E parte Reed, 100 U S. 13, 23, Ex parte Siebold, 100
U S. 371, 375", Ex parte Carll, 106 U. S. 521, Ex parte
Vilson, 114 U S. 417, 421.
The same doctrine applies to the Circuit Court in the present case in its review on habeas corpus of the proceedings before the commissioner, and it has been applied by this court
on appeals to it from inferior courts in habeas corpus proceedings. Benson v McMahon, 127 U. S. 457, 461, 462, In re
Coy, 127 U S. 731, 758, 759, Bans -Nielsen, Petst'oner,131
U S. 176, 182, 184, Sayn, Pettoner, 131 U S. 267, 279,
Cuddy, Petzdoner, 131 U S. 280, 285. The case of Samn,
Pethoner,supra, was an appeal from an order of a Circuit
Court of the United States dismissing a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus, where the party had been imprisoned for contempt of court by a Distriot Court of the United States.
This court said, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, " Our conclusion is that the District Court had jurisdiction of the subject
matter and of the person, and that irregularities, if any,
occurring in the mee conduct of the case, do not affect the
validity of its final order. Its judgment, so far as it involved
mere errors, cannot be reviewed in this collateral proceeding,
and must be affirmed."
These views are-conclusive to show that
The order of the Ciroumt Court must be affirmed, and-it w so
ordered.

