OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

an offence was committed in Connecticut, and that, in either
aspect, the District Court of the United States for the District
of Connecticut had jurisdiction of the charge against the
petitioner. Whether he might have been indicted in New
York is a question not presented by this appeal.

Order afirmed.

CtIOCAGO

RAILWAY EQUIPMENT COMPANY
MERCHANTS' BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

v.

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 64.

Argued November 4, 5, 1889.-Decided May 19, 1890.

'The maker executed in the State of Illinois and delivered to the promisee a
series of notes, one of which was acquired by a bona fide endorsee, and
was as follows ".$5000.
Chicago, Ill., January 20, A.D. 1884.
For
value received, four months after date, the Chicago Railway Equipment
Company promise to pay to the order of the Northwestern Mlanufacturlug and Car Company of Stillwater, Minnesota, five thousand dollars, at
First Nat. Bank of Chicago, Illinois, with interest thereon, at the rate
of - per cent per annum, from date until paid. This note is one of a
series of'twenty-five notes, of even date herewith, of the sum of five
thousand dollars each, and shall become due and payable to the holder on
the failure of the maker to pay the principal and interest of any one of
the notes of said series, and all of said notes are given for the purchase
price of two hundred and fiftyrailway freight cars manufactured by the
payee hereof and sold by said payee to the maker hereof, which cars are
numbered from 13,000 to 13,249, inclusive, and marked on the side thereof
with the words and letters Blue Line C. & E. I. R. R. Co., and it is agreed
by the maker hereof that the title to said cars shall remain in the said
payee until all the notes of said series, both principal and interest, are
fully paid, all of said notes being equally and ratably secured on said
cars. No. 1. Geo. B. Burrows, Vice-President. Countersigned by E. D.
Buffington, Treas." Held
(1) That this was a negotiable promissory note according to the statute
of Illinois, where it was made, as well as by the general mercantile law
(2) That its negotiability was not affected by the fact that the title to
the cars for which it was given. remained in the vendor until all
the notes of the same series were fully paid, the title being so

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

269

Statement of the Case.
retained only by way of security for the payment of the notes, and
the agreement for the retention for that purpose being a short
form of chattel-mortgage;
(3) That its negotiability was not affected by the fact that it might, at
the option of the holder, and by reason of the default of the
maker, become due at a date earlier than that fixed.
MR. JUSTICE IHIARLAN, in the opilon of the court, stated the
case as follows
This action was brought by the Merchants' National Bank
of Chicago against the Chicago Railway Equipment Company, a corporation of Wisconsin, upon two written instruments, one of which is in the words and figures following"

"$5,000.

CHICAGO, Ill., Janua'y 20, A.D. 1884.

"For value received, four months after date, the Chicago
Railway Equipment Company promise to pay to the order of
the Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company of Stillwater, Minnesota, five thousand dollars at First National
Baiik of Chicago, Illinois, with interest thereon at the rate
of -per cent per annum from date until paid.
"This note is one of a series of twenty-five notes, of even
date herewith, of the sum of five thousand dollars each, and
shall become due and payable to the holder on the failure of
the maker to pay the principal and interest of any one of the
notes of said series, and all of said notes are given for the purchase price of two hundred and fifty railway freight cars manufactured by the payee hereof and sold by said payee to the
maker hereof, which cars are numbered from 13,000 to 13,249
inclusive, and marked on the side thereof with the words and
letters Blue *Line C. & E. I. R. R. Co.; and it is agreed by the
maker hereof that the title to said cars shall remain in thesaid payee until'all the notes of said series, both principal and
interest, are fully paid, all of said notes being equally and
ratably secured on said cars.
GEo. B.. BuRRows, Vice-Presdenz."
"No. 1.
"Countersigned by E. D. Buffington, Treasurer."
This writing is endorsed "1N6rthw'estern Manufacturi'.ng
and Car Co.,-per J C. Gorman, Treas."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The other instrument, bears the same date, and is in all
respects similar to the first one. INo question is made as to
the genuineness of the signatures to these instruments of the
vice-president and treasurer of the defendant, nor as to the
plaintiff having paid value for them before maturity They
were declared upon as negotiable promissory notes. In support of the defence certain evidence was offered that was
excluded, and the jury pursuant to the direction of the court
returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the full amount
of the two instruments. 25 Fed. Rep. 809.
.Mb' G'eenleaf Cla'k for plaintiff in error.
The issue is a sinple one, the defendant in error claiming
that they are negotiable promissory notes, the plaintiff in error
that they are not.
The requisites of a negotiable promissory note are few and
simple. There must be an absolute unconditional promise in
writing to pay a specified sum at a definite time therein
limited. -Nunez v Dautel, 19 Wall. 560, Cayuga Co. Bank
v Purdy, 56 Michigan, 6.
The time of payment of each of the instruments is by the
terms thereof so indefinite, uncertain and contingent, as to
destroy the negotiable character that might otherwise attach
thereto.
Each of the instruments in question is an entirety, and to
ascertain its character and what is represented by it, resort
must be had to all the terms and conditions therein contained,,
-the
promise to pay a certain sum four months after date is
in each instance to be taken in connection with and as modified and changed by what follows. The promise to pay, in
four months from date, is subject at all times to the contingency that no default occurs as to either of the other twentyfour notes of the series, the terms and conditions of which do
not appear from the instrument in question.
The first case in which the principle that the time of payment should be definite and ascertainable from the instrument
itself was Andrews v Franklin,(1717,) 1 Strange, 24. This

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

271

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

was followed by Evans v Underwood, 1 Wilson, 262. These
cases would not now be considered law. Weidler v Xauffman,
14 Ohio, 455, 460.
Colekan v. Cook, (1743,) Willes, 393, followed these cases.
On the, authority of Andrews v. FIpankin, it was there held
that a note payable ten days after the death of the maker's
father was negotiable. The authority-of this case is seriously
impeached, if not overthrown, by Alexander v Iromas, 16

Q.B. 333.
'It obtained, however, a foothold in this country through
Cota v Buck, 7 Met. 588, which has been since overruled.
See Way v Smnth, 111 Mass. 523, 'Stultz v. Silva, 119 Mass.
137, M[ahoney v -Fitzpatok,133 Mass. 151. Some of the
cases in which it was followed were Ernst v. Steckman; 74
Penn. St. 13, and Valker v Woollen, 54 Indiana, 164. See
Charlton v Reed, 61 Iowa, 166, Cisne v Chndester, 85 Illinois,
523.
Another class of cases which will doubtless be urged as
holding a doctrine adverse to that we here contend for, is
those holding notes payable "on or before" a day named to
be negotiable. To this class belong Jordan v Tate, 19 Ohio
St. 586, .Mattison v -Marks, 31 Michigan, 421.
There is also a series of decisions with reference to notes
payable in instalments, with a proviso that the entire amount
shall become due on failure to pay any one. The leading case
is Orzdge v Skerborne, 11 M. & W 374. It was followed by
Carlon v Kenealy, 12 M. & W 139, in which the court held
itself bound by Oridge v Sherborne. If Carlon v FHenealy
shall be considered to rest alone on the authority of Orsdge v.
Sherborne, it can have but -little weight, if it be considered
as standing alone its weight as an authority of principle is
materially lessened by Pollock, C. B., in 3Uller v Bsddle, in
1865, an action upon a note like the one in question in Carlom
v Kenealy.
Opposed to the theory, however, that instruments promising
to pay a definite sum of money at -a specified time when
coupled with an agreement that they may or -shall become
due upon the happemng of some uncertain event before the..

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

date mentioned are negotiable, are many well considered
authorities, all of which enunciate the principle that such additional agreement operates to make the time when payment
will become due so indefinite and uncertain as to nullify the
otherwise negotiable character of the paper, reducing it to a
mere chose in action assignable only subject to equities between
the original parties.
llubbard v. XYosely, 11 Gray, 170, May v Smith, 111 Mass.
523, ,Stultz v Silva, 119 Mass. 137, Mahoney v. Fitzpatrick,
133 Mass. 151, Brooks v Hfargreaves, 21 Michigan, 254,
First NYatzonal Bank v. Carson, 60 Michigan, 432, Bank of
New Windsor v. Bynum, 84 No. Car. 24, Chouteau v Allen,
70 Missouri, 290, 339. See also, having bearing on the subject -Lamb v Story, 45 Michigan, 488, Smith v. Van Blarcoin, 45 Michigan, 371, 2Tunez v Dautel, 19 Wall. 561, Smith
v Marland, 59 Iowa, 645, Cayuga Co. Bank v Purdy, 56
Michigan, 6.
The instruments in question were not negotiable promissory notes, but merely executory agreements evidencing the
terms and conditions of a conditional sale of personal property, as such assignable, but not negotiable in the commercial
sense.
It is a cardinal principle in the law of negotiable paper
needing no authorities in its support that bills and notes must
be for the payment of money absolutely at the time specified,
and with nothing upon the face of the paper that expressly or
by implication will alter or modify this absolute obligation,
andif the instrument though otherwise a good promissory
note or bill of exchange, does contain any such matter, the
additional provisions will destroy the negotiable character
that might otherwise attach to the instrument and reduce it
to the level of an ordinary agreement.
So, too, if a note contains any stipulation or provision creating any obligation, duty or right on the part of either party
aside from the simple obligation to pay a fixed sum at a
certain time on the one part, and the right to receive it on the
other, its negotiability will be thereby destroyed, and its
character changed from that of a note to a mere agreement.

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. MIERCHANTS' BANK.

273

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Parsons Bills and Notes, 30, Chitty on Bills, 12 Am. ed. 134
et seg., Story on Bills, ยง 447.
The statute of Illinois does not change the ordinary rules
further than to allow a note to be payable in personal property as well as money
These cardinal principles are undisputed, and the only difficulty that has ever arisen has been in their application.
That instruments of the character of those in question here
evidence a conditional sale by which no title passes until conditions are performed rather than an absolute sale with mortgage back for the purchase price, was held by this court in
the recent case of Harkness v Russell, 118 U. S. 663, where
m an exhaustive decision considering an instrument very similar m its provisions to those in question in the present case,
it reviews nearly all the authorities in this country on the
subject.
While in that case, as well as many others where this class
of papers has come up, the question was as to the title to the
property acquired by the maker of the instrument, and the
holding that, prior to compliance with the conditions, he had
none whatever, regardless of where the -possession might be,
it follows as a logical sequence that his final obligation to pay
must be dependent upon his getting what forms the consideration for the promise, otherwise there is an absolute want or
failure of consideration. Until the executory agreement is
performed, and the conditions fulfilled or waived, there is a
contingency, it may be more or less remote, that the property
may be destroyed or the vendor incapacitated from performance when the time for performance arrives. The obligation
to pay is affected by this contingency from the time the agreement is made, and is not changed by its subsequent transfer.
See Thrd Tat. Bank v. Ar mstrong, 25 Minnesota, 530; &,oan
v. "MeCarty,134 Mass. 245, Swallow v Dnery, 111 Mass. 355,
Xillan v. Schaeps, 26 .Kansas, 310, South Bend Iron Worksw
v. Paddock, 37"1
Kansas, 510, Stevens v Johnson, 28 Minnesota, 172, Deer.ing v Torm, 29 Minnesota, 12U, Fletcher v.
fTwmopsom' 55 NK. H. 308, Bannister v Rouse, 44 Michigan,
428.
VOL.CxxXVI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Apparently opposed to this application of the rule is Mlott
v Havana Bank, 22 Hun, 354, Heard v Dubuque County
Bank, 8 Nebraska, 10, and HYewton Wagon Co. v .Dzers, 10
Nebraska, 284.
Had the transaction been m the nature of sale absolute,
with mortgage back to secure deferred payments, the instruments might be said to come within the authorities holding
that the negotiable character of promissory notes is not to be
affected by an agreement that is merely collateral to the
promise to pay But here the parties have by the express
terms of their agreement evidenced a positive intention that
the title should not pass until all the conditions of payment
were fully complied with, and there is nothing m the instruments that will operate to modify or change this positive
:ntention so expressed. See Call v Seymour, 40 Ohio St. 670,
JFosdick v Sehall, 99 U S. 235, Harkness v Russell, 118 U S.
-663, and cases cited, -Dom. Sewzng Jlach. Co. v Arthurhultz,
63 Indiana,. 322, Cole v .ltanv, 62 N. Y 1.
The vendor, who seeks to protect himself may do this either
by a conditional sale retaining the ownership with or without
the possession until all the conditions are complied with and
full payment m-de, or by an absolute sale and transfer of the
title with a mortgage back, and no matter what the form of
the instrument the question is one of intention, as evidenced
by the instrument itself. Hervey v llode Island Locomotive
Works, 93 U. S. 664, 3Eurch v Wr?glt, 46 Illinois, 487,
Fosdice v Sehall, 99 U. S. 235, Call v Seymour, 40 Ohio St.
670, Harkness v Russell, 118 U. S. 663.
As this is not a question between claimants of the property
sold, the chattel mortgage act of Illinois cannot affect the
matter one way or the other.
The Illinois statute on negotiable instruments does not interfere with either of the positions here taken.
In sevetal cases determined by the Supreme Court of that
State, it has been held that to come within the operation of
the statute the promise must be an absolute and unconditional
one. See Husband v Epling, 81 Illinois, 172, Turner v
Peoria &c. Railroad, 95 Illinois, 134, Canadian Bank v
leCrea, 106 Illinois, 281.

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. MEROlA2TTS' BANK. 275
Opinion of the Court.

.A'r Jon .P }fila.on for defendant in error.
Mr Charle Hoblel Gregory and .Mr JT C. Gregory filed a
brief for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE HI.Im
, after stating the.case in the opinion of
the court as above reported, continued
Are the writings in suit. to be regarded as promissory-notes
to be protected, in the hands of bona fide holders for value,
according to the rules of general mercantile law as applicable
to negotiable instruments, or are they anything more than
simple contracts subject, in the hands of transferees, to such
equities and defences as would be available between the original parties ? This is the question upon which, it is concedbd,
depends the correctness of the several rulings to which the
assignments of error refer.
By the statute of Illinois revising the law in relation to
promissory notes, bonds, due bills and other instruments in
writing, approved March 18, 1874, and in force July 1, 1874,
(Rev Stats. Illinois 1874, p. 718, 2 Starr & Curtis' Anno. Stat.
1651, c. 98, Rev Stats. 1845, p. 384,) it is provided
"SEc. 3. All promissory notes, bonds, due bills and other
instruments in writing, made or to be made, by any person,
body politic or corporate, whereby such person promises or
agrees to pay any sum of money or articles of personal property, or any sum of money in prsonal property, or acknowledges any sum of money or article of personal property to be
due to any other person, shall be taken to be due and -payable,
and the sum of money or article of personal property therein
mentioned shall, by virtue thereof, be due and payable as
therein expressed.
"SEC. 4. Any such note, bond, bill or other instrument m
writing, made payable to any person named as payee therein,
shall be assignable, by endorsement thereon, under the hand
of such person, and of his assignees, in the same manner as
.bills of exchange are, so as absolutelyto transfer and vest the
property thereof in each and every assignee successively"
.Other sections of the statute throwsomd light on the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tion before us. The fifth section provides that any assignee
to whom such sum of money or personal property is by endorsement made payable, or, he being dead, his executor or
administrator, may, in his own name, institute and maintain
the same kind of action for the recovery thereof against the
person making and executing the note, bond, bill or other
instrument in writing, or against his heirs, executors or administrators, as might have been maintained against him by the
obligee or payee, in case it had not been assigned. By the.
sixth section no maker of, or other person liable on, such note,
bond, bill or other instrument in writing, is allowed to allege
payment to the payee, made after notice of assignment, as a
defence against the assignee. The eighth section provides
1Any note, bond, bill, or other instrument in writing, made
payable to bearer, may be transferred by delivery thereof,
and an action may be maintained thereon in the name of the
holder thereof. Every endorser of any instrument mentioned
in this section shall be held as a guarantor of payment unless
otherwise expressed in the endorsement." The ninth section
allows the defendant, when sued upon a note, bond or other
instrument in writing, for the payment of money or property,
or the performance of covenants or conditions, to prove the
want or failure of consideration, "provided that nothing in
this section contained shall be construed to affect or impair
the right of any bona, fide assignee of any instrument made
assignable by this act, when such assignment was made before
such instrument became due." The eleventh section provides
that "if any such note, bond, bill or other instrument in writing, shall be endorsed after the same becomes due, and any
endorsee shall institute an action thereon against the maker of
the same, the defendant, being maker, shall be allowed to set
up the same defence that he'might have done had the action
been instituted in the name and for the use of the person to
whom such instrument was originally made payable, or any
intermediate holder." Tnder the twelfth section, if the instrument has been assigned or transferred by delivery to the
plaintiff after it became due, "a set-off to the amount of the
plaintiff's debt may be made of a demand existing against any

CHICAGO RAILWAY 00. v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

277

Opinion of the Court.

person or persons who shall have assigned or transferred such
instrument after it became due, if the demand be such as might
have been set off against the assignor, while the note or bill
belonged to him." If the instrument is assigned before the
day the money or property therein mentioned becomes due
and payable, then, by the thirteenth section, the defendant,
in an action brought by the assignee, is allowed to give in
evidence at the trial any money or property actually paid on
the note, bond, or bill or other instrument in writing, before
it was assigned to the plaintiff, on proving that the plaintiff
had "sufficient notice of the said payment'before he accepted
or received such assignment."
It is contended by the defendant that these statutory provisions, so far as they embrace instruments not negotiable at
common law, relate only to the manner of their endorsement
or transfer, and that the endorsee takes them, as before the
statute, subject to all the defences that might be interposed
in an action between the .original parties. This view is inconsistent with the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois.
Some of these decisions will be referred to as indicating'the
scope and effect of the local statute, as well as the views of
that court upon the general principles of commercial law involved in this case.
In Stewart v Sm-tt, 28 Illinois, 397, 406, 408, the principal
question was as to the negotiability under the above statute
"Chicago, 21st of January,
of the following instrument
1859. Received from teams in our pork-house, No. 114 West
Harrison Street, 280 hogs, weighing 45,545 pounds,*the product of which we promise to deliver to the order of Messrs.
Stevens & Brother endorsed hereon. G. & J Stewart." The
court said. "Testing the writing by this statute, there cannot
be a doubt upon its assign ,bility It is an instrument in
writing; it purports to be made by persons, by it, those
persons promise and agree to deliver a certain article of personal property, to the order of certain other persons. By
force of the statute, this article of personal property mentioned in the instrument of writing so made, by virtue of
its being- so mentioned and in such form of words, must be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

taken to be due and payable to the person to whom the instrument in writing is made. The statute does not require.
that the note or instrument in writing shall be payable at any
particular time or place, or be expressed to oe for value received, or that any consideration whatever should appear in
the writing - an acknowledgment of indebtedness, in the
simplest form, would seem to be all the statute requires to give
it the character of negotiability A writing in this form,
-probably the simplest, would be a perfect negotiable note
under this statute Due John Brown, ten dollars, July 4,
1862, and signed by the maker. Such an instrument is clothed
with all the attributes of negotiability, and imports a consideration, and no averments or proofs are necessary on those
The other point made by plaintiffs, that the
points.
instrument was overdue on the 26th of January, 1859, when
it was endorsed, to such an extent as to put a prudent man
upon inquiry in respect to all equities which the makers might
have against it in the hands of the promisee, we do not conThe endorsement being in season
sider a strong one.
cut off all equities, if there were any, in defendant's favor,
and the only hazard incurred in holding it back for payment,
was that the release of the endorsers might have been caused
by it, but not the release of the maker."
In Cisne v Chsdester, 85 Illinois, 524, the action was upon
the following note. "$120. May 2, 1871. On the first day
of September, 1871 (or before, if made out of the sale of J
B. Drake's horse hay fork and hay carrier), I promise to pay
James B. Drake, or to order, one hundred and twenty dollars,
for value received, with use." On this note was an endorsement by Drake to Chamberlain, and by the latter to Chidester. The trial court instructed the jury that, in the hands of
an assignee before maturity, the question of consideration did
not arise until it was shown by evidence that the assignee purchased the note with actual knowledge of the want of consideration, and, also, that the note was, in its effect, payable
absolutely on the 1st day of September, 1871, with interest at
six per cent from date. The Supreme Court of Illinois said
"The pleas were, the general issue, and fraud and circumven-

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

279

Opinion of the Court.

tion in obtaining -the making of the note. There was no evidence whatever as to the time of the endorsement of the note, or
of any want of good faith in or notice to the endorsee in respect
to the consideration of the note, or the circumstances under
which it was given, more than appears upon the face of the
note itself. The plaintiff was presumed to be a bona fde endorsee of the note for a valuable consideration. As against
the plaintiff, there was, under the evidence, no question of
consideration before the jury, and the giving of the first
instruction could form no Just cause of complaint. The construction of the note was aqnestion of la 'and for the court.
The proper construction was put upon the note."
In White v Smth, 77 Illinois, 351, 352, the principle was
said to be undoubted, that to constitute a valid promissory
note it must be for the payment of money, which will certainly become due and payable one time or another, though
it may be uncertain when that time will come. In Caizadian
Bank v .XfCrea, 106 Illinois, 281, 289, 292, the court, construing the local statute, said that it 'did not embrace "covenants
or agreements for the performance of individual services in
and about property -mutual,
dependent and conditional
covenants and agreements, or covenants and agreements to
pay money or deliver property upon uncertain contingencies
or events" -but applied "only ' to absolute and unconditional
promises to pay money or deliver property"' It was further
said to be clear, under previous cases, that "the promise or
undertaking must be restricted to the payment of money or
delivery of property at a time that will certainly' happen."
"It may be," the court added, "unknown, in advance, when
it will be, but it must be absolutely certain that it will be at
some time, and althouglh it may be within the power of the
party to whom the promise is made to render -itcertain, by
his subsequent act, that the time will happen, this will not be
sufficient - it cannot depend upon his will or pleasure." See
also Harlow v Boswell, 15 Illinois, 56, iTfcCarty v Rowell,
24: Illinois, 341, Bilderback v Burlingame, 27 Illinois, 338,
Boughton v Franez, 29 Illinois, 244, Baird v rnderwood,
74 Illinois, 176.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is clear from these cases that the statute of Illinois has
a much wider scope than the counsel for the defendant supposes. It evidently intended to place negotiable promissory
notes in the hands ot bona fide holders for value on the same
footing substantially, that they occupy under the general
rules of the mercantile law It does not, in our judgment, do
anything more. So that we are to inquire whether the notes
in suit are not negotiable securities according to the custom
and usages of merchants.
The defendant insists, that, in view of the agreement for the
retention by the payee of the title to the cars until all the
notes of the same series, principal and interest, are fully paid,
the transaction was only a conditional sale of the cars. It is
contended that the promise to pay the notes given for the
price, so far from being absolute as required by the mercantile
law, is subject to the condition, running with the notes, that
the title to the cars should not pass until all the notes were
paid, which could not occur if, before payment, the cars had
been destroyed or sold to other parties. The fact that, by
agreement, the title is to remain in the vendor of personal
property until the notes for the price are paid, does not necessarily import that the transaction was a conditional sale.
Each case must depend upon its special circumstances. In
.He7-gford v Daws, 102 U. S. 235, 243, 214, 245, 246, the question was as to whether a certain instrument, relating to cars
supplied to a railway company, and for the price of which the
latter gave its notes, showed a conditional sale, which did not
pass the ownership until the conditions were performed, or
whether, taking the whole instrument together, the seller reserved only a lien or security for the payment of the price, or
what is sometimes called a mortgage back to the vendor. In
that case, the instrument construed provided that until a certain payment was made, the railway company should have no
right, title, claim, or interest in the cars delivered to it, "except as to their use or hire," or any right or authority in any
way to dispose of, hire; sell, mortgage, or pledge the same,
but that they "are and shall remain the property" of the
manufacturing company, and be redelivered to it when de-

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

281

Opinion of the Court.

manded, upon default in the above payment. This court, after
observing that the true construction of the contiact was not to
be found in any name which the parties may have given to the
instrument, nor alone in any particular provisions it contained,
disconnected from all others, but in the ruling intention of the
parties, gathered from all the language used, said" "It is the
legal effect of the whole which is to be sought for. The form
of the instrument is of little account. Though the contract
industriously and repeatedly spoke of loaning the cars to the
railroad company for ,&re, for four months, and delivering
them for use for hre, it is manifest that no mere bailment
for hire was intended. No price for the hire was mentioned
or alluded to, and in every bailment or letting for hire a
price or compensation for the hire is essential.
It
is quite unmeaning for parties to a contract to say it shall not
amount to a sale, when it contains every element of a sale,.
and transmission of ownership. This part of the contract is
to be construed in connection with the other provisions, so
that if possible, or so far as is possible, they may all harmonize. Thus construed, it is quite plain these stipulations were
inserted to enable the manufacturing company to enforce
payment, not of any rent or hire, but of the selling price
of the cars 'for which the company took the notes of the
railroad company They were intended as additional security for the payment of the debt the latter company assumed. This is shown most clearly by the other provisions
of the contract. The notes became the absolute property of
the vendors. As has been stated, they all fell due within four
months, and it was expected they would be paid. The vendors( were expressly allowed to, collect them at their maturity, and it was agreed that whatever sums should be
collected on account of them should be retained by the vendors for their own use. No part of the money was to return
to the railroad company in any event, not even if the cars
should be returned.
What was this but treating the
notes given for the sum agreed to be the price of the cars as
a debt absolutely due to the vendors 2 What was it but treating the cars as a security for the debt 9
In view of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

these provisions, we can come to no other conclusion than that
it was the intention of the parties, manifested by the agreement, the ownership of the cars should pass at -once to the
railroad company in consideration of .their becoming debtors
for the prie. Notwithstanding the efforts to cover up the
real nature of the contract, its substance was an hypothecation
of the cars to secure a debt due to the vendors for the price
of a sale. The railroad company was not accorded an option
to buy or not. They were bound to pay the price, either by
paying their notes or surrendering the property to be sold in
order to make payment. This was in no sense a conditional
sale. This giving property as security for the payment of a
debt is the very essence of a mortgage, which has no existence
in a case of conditional sale."
It is a mistake to suppose that there is any conflict between
these views and those expressed in the subsequent case of
HZarkness v. Russell, 118 U S. 663, 680, where the whole doctrine of conditional sales of personal property was carefully
examined, and in which the particular instrument there in
question was held to import not an absolute sale but only an
agreement to sell upon condition that the purchasers should
pay their notes at maturity With the principles laid down
in the latter case we are entirely satisfied. But as pointed out
in Arkansas Cattle Co. v .3fann, 130 U S. 69, 77, 78, the agreement in Harkness v Russell was upon the express condition
that neither the title, ownership, nor possession of the engine
and saw-mill which was the subject of the transaction should
pass from the vendor until the note given by the vendee for
the stipulated price was paid. Turning to the notes here in
suit, we find every element of a sale and transmission of ownership, despite the provision that the title to the cars should
remain in the payee, until all the notes of the series were fully
paid. The notes, upon their face, show they were given for
the " purchase price " of cars "sold" by the payee to the
maker and they are "secured" equally and ratably on the cars,
in order to prevent the holder of one of the notes from obtaining out of the common security a preference over holders of
others of the same series. This provision placed the parties

CHICAGO lRAILWAY CO. v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

283

Opnon of the Court.

upon the same footing they would have occupied if a chattel
mortgage, covering all the notes, had been executed by the
purchaser of the cars. If the notes had been in the usual form
of promissory notes, and the maker had given a mortgage
back to the payee, the title would, technically, have been in
the payee until they were paid. But they would, in such case,
have been negotiable securities protected in the hands bf bona
jide holders for value against secret defences, and their immunity from such defences would have been communicated to
the mortgage itself. In Xenzcott v Swervsors, 16 Wall. 452,
469, it was said that where a note secured by a mortgage is
transferred to a bona Sfde holder for value before maturity,
and a bill is filed to foreclose the mortgage, no other or further
defences are allowed against the mortgage than would be
allowed were the action brought in a court of law upon the
note. To the same effect are Carpenterv Zongan, 16 Wall.
271, 274. See also Swfz v ,Smith,, 102 U S. 442, 444, Collm&
v Bradbury, 64- Maine, 37, Towne v Riwe, 122 Mass. 67, 73.
The agreement that the title should remain in. the payee
until the notes were paid - it being expressly stated that they
were given for the price of the cars sold by the payee to the
maker, and were secured equally and ratably on the property
-is a short form of chattel mortgage. The transaction is,.in
legal effect, what it would have been if the maker, who purchased the cars, had given a mortgage back to the payee,
securing the notes on the property until they were all fully
paid. The agreement, by which the vendor retains the title
and by which the notes are secured on the cars, is collateral to
the notes, and does not affect their negotiability It does not
qualify the promise to pay at the tim fixed, any more than
would be done by an agreement, of the same kind, embodied in
a separate instrument, in the form of a mortgage. So far as the
notes upon their face show, the payee did not retain possession
of the cars, but possession was delivered to the maker. The
marks on the cars showed that they were to go into the possession of the maker, or of its transferee, to be used. The suggestion that the maker could not have been compelled to pay if the
cars had been destroyed before the maturity of the notes, is.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

without any foundation upon which to rest. The agreement
cannot properly be so construed. The ears having been sold and
delivered to the maker, the payee had no interest remaining in
them except by way of security for the payment of the notes
given for the price. The reservation of the title as security
for such payment was not the reservation of anything in favor
of the maker, but was for the benefit of the payee and all
subsequent holders of the paper. The promise of the maker
was unconditional.
Without deciding whether the notes here in suit would or
would not have been negotiable securities if the transaction
between the parties had been a conditional sale, we are of
opinion that they are of the class of instruments that are negotiable according to the mercantile law, and which, in the hands
of a bona fide holder for value, are protected against defences
of which the maker might avail himself if sued by the payee.
They are promises in writing to pay a fixed sum of money to
a named person or order, at all events, and at a time which
must certainly arrive. Ackley School Distrset v Jall, 113
U. S. 135, 139, 140, Story on Promissory Notes, ยง 27, Cota v.
Buck, 7 Met. 588. It is true that, upon the failure of the
maker to pay the principal and interest of any note of the
whole series of twenty-five, the others would become due and
payable, that is, due and payable at the option of the holder.
But a contingency under which a note may beconie due earlier
than the date fixed is not one that affects its negotiability
In Ernst v Steckmam, 74 Penn. St. 13, 15, cited with approval
in Cisne v Chidester, 85 Illinois, 525, the question was whether
the following instrument was a negotiable promissory note
Paradise, Lancaster Co., Pa., June 11, 1869. Twelve
"$375.
months after date, (or before if made out of the sale of W S.
-Coffman's Improved Broadcast Seeding Machine,) I promise
to pay J S. Huston, or bearer, at the First National Bank of
Lancaster, three hundred and seventy-five dollars, without
defalcation, for value received, with interest." It was there
contended that the character of the instrument was changed
by the fact taat in the contingency of the sum being sooner
realized from the sale of the machinery it might become

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. MEROHANTS' BANK.

285

Opmlon of the Court.

payable within the year. The court, after observing that the
general rule, to be extracted from the authorities, undoubtedly
requires that to constitute a valid promissory note, it must be
for the payment of money at some fixed period of time, or
upon some event which must inevitably happen, and that its
character, as a promissory note cannot depend upon future
events, but solely upon its character when created, said. "Yet
it is an equally well settled rule of commercial law that it
may be made payable at sight, or at a fixed period hfter sight,
or at a fixed period after notice,.or on request, or on demand,
without destroying its negotiable character. The reason for
this, said Lord Tenterden, in Clayton v. Goslin'g, 5 B. & C.
360, is that it 'was made payable at a time which we must
suppose would arrive.'" To the same effect are Cotav Buck,
7 Met. 588, Walker v. Woollen., 54 Indiana, 164, Woolen v
Ulrsah, 64 Indiana, 120, Charlton v. Resd, 61 Iowa, 166,
Andrews v. Franklin, 1 Strange, 21, Cook v Horn, 29 Law
Times, (N. S.,) 369.
Upon like grounds it has been held that the negotiability of
the note is not affected by its being made payable on or before
a named date, or in instalments of a..particular amount. "{n
Ackley School' Dstrct v lTall, 113 U "S. 135, 140,-it was held
that municipal bonds, issued under a statute providing that
they should be payable at the pleasure of the district at any
time before due, were negotiable, -for, the court said "By
their terms, they were payable at a time which must certainly
arrive, the bolder could not exact payment before the day
fixed in the bonds, the debtor incurred no legal liability for
non-payment until that day passed." In -Mattisonv .Marks,
31 Michigan, 421, which was the case of a note payable "on
or before" a day named, it was said. "True, the maker .may
pay sooner if he shall bhoose, but this option, if exercised,
would be a payment inadvance of the legal liability to pay,
and nothing more. INotes like this are common in commercial
transactions, and we are not aware that their negotiable
quality is ever questioned in business dealings." Carlon v
.Kenealy, 12 M. & W 139, Colehan v Willes, Willes, 393,
Jordanv Tate, 19 Ohio St. 586, Cartis v Home, 58 N. If.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

504, Howard v Simpkins, 60 Georgia, 340,

Protection Ins.
Co. v Bill, 31 Connecticut, 534, 538, Goodloe v Taylor, 3
Hawks, 458, Ricker v Sprague JManuf Co., 14 R. I. 402.
In the last-named case it was said that if the time of payment named in the note must certainly come, although the
precise date may not be specified, it is sufficiently certain as
to time. It was, consequently, held that a reservation in a
note of the right to pay it before maturity in instalments of
not less than five per cent of the principal at any time the
semi-annual interest becomes payable, did not impair its negotiability, the court observing that a note is negotiable if one
certain time of payment is fixed, although the option of
another time of payment be given. In view of these authorities, as well as upon principle, we adjudge that the negotiability of the notes in suit was not affected by the provision
that upon the failure of the maker to pay any one of the notes
of the series to which those in suit belonged, the rest should
become due and payable to the holder.
Our conclusion is that the court below did not err in holding
the notes in suit to be negotiable according to the custom and
usage of merchants. They bear upon. their face evidence that
they were so intended by the maker and the payee. It was
well said by Judge Bunn, at the trial, that the inference that
any one contemplating the purchase of the notes would naturally and properly draw, would be, 25 Fed. Rep. 809, 811,
"that the freight cars had already been sold by the payee to
the maker, and that the payee was to retain a lien and security
upon them, in the way of mortgage, for the payment of the
purchase price, which would enure equally and ratably to all
the holders of the notes, according to their several amounts,
without regard to the time when such notes should fall due.
If this be so, the contract was an executed one, the consider
ation for the notes had already passed, and the payment of
the notes would not be made to depend upon any condition
whatsoever."
Judgment ajfirmed.
MR.JUSTICE

MILLERI

and MR.

JUsTICE GRAY

dissented.

MR.JUSTICE BREWER was not a member of the court when
thi; case was argued, and took no part in its decision.

