OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

We have given due attention to the minor points raised by
the appellant's counsel, but do not find anything therein
which calls for a reversal of the decree' The decree of the
Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.

NASHUA AND LOWELL RAILROAD CORPORATION v. BOSTON AND LOWELL RAILROAD
CORPORATION.
APPEAL

FROM THIM

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 166. Argued December, 16, 17, 1889; M(arch 31, 1890. -Decided May 19, 1890.
Railroad corporations, created by two or more States, though joined in
their interests, in the operation of their roads, in the issue of their stock
and in the division of their profits, so as practically to be a single corporation, do not lose their identity, but each has its existence and its
standing in the courts of the country only by virtue of the legislation of
the State by winch it was created, and the union of name, of officers, of
business and of property does not change their distinctive character as
separate corporations.
The Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation was incorporated by the
State of New Hampshire June 23, 1835, "to locate construct and keep
in repair a railroad from any point in thc southern line of the State
to some convenient place in or near Nashua," seven persons being named
as incorporators. The Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, (three
out of the seven being named as incorporators,) was incorporated by the
State of Massachusetts on the 16th of April, 1836, " to locate, construct
and finally complete a railroad from Lowell "". to form a junction with
the portion of said Nashua and Lowell Railroad lying within the State
of New Hampshire." The legislature of Massachusetts, on the 10t
of April, 1838, enacted that " the stockholders" of the New Hampshire
Company "are hereby constituted stockholders " of the Massachusetts
Company " and the said two corporations are hereby united iito one
corporation," and further provided that the act should "not take efiect
until the legislature of
New Hampshire shall have passed an act
simiilar to this unitina the said stockholders into one corporation, nor
The
until the sai(d acts have been accepted by the said stockholders."
legislature of New Hampshire, on the 26th of June, 1838, enacted " that
are hereby authorized, from and after the
the two corporations

N'ASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

357

Statement of the Case.
time when this act shall take effect, to unite said corporations, and
from and after the time said corporations shall be united, all property
owned, acquired or enjoyed by either shall be taken and accounted to
be the joint property of the stockholders, for the time being, of the
two corporations." A common stock was issued for the whole line,
and for the forty-five years which intervened the two properties were
under the management of one board of directors; but there was no
other evidence that the stockholders had acted on these statutes; Held,
that the New Hampshire Corporation, being a citizen of that State, was
entitled to go into the Circuit Court of Massachusetts, and bring its
bill there against a citizen of Massachusetts; and that its union or consolidation with another corporation of the same name, organized under the
laws of Massachusetts, did not extinguish or modify its character as a
citizen of New Hampshire, or give it any such additional citizenship in
Massachusetts, as to defeat its right to go into that court.
While, as a general rule, the directors of a railroad company cannot, without the previous approval of their stockholders, authorize the construction of a passenger station in a city situated in a State foreign to that in
which the company was created, and to which its own road does not
extend, and cannot make the company responsible for any portion of
the cost pf such construction; yet, the fact that such increased facilities
at BOston were necessary to enable the joint management under the
contract between the Boston and Lowell and the Nashua and Lowell
Companies to retain the extended business, common to both, justified
the directors of the Nashua Company in incurring obligations on account
df such expenditures, and brought them within the general scope of
directors' powers.
A contract between two railroad companies, situated in different States, for
the management of the business common to both by one of them, with
an agreed division of receipts and expenses, does not warrant the
managing company in purchasing at the common expense, the control
of a rival line, without the assent of the stockholders of the other
company.

IN EQUITY. Decree dismissing the bill. Plaintiff appealed.
The cause being reached on he calendar, it was argued on the
merits on the 16th and 17th of December, 1889. Subsequently,
the court having expressed a desire- to have the views of
counsel, either orally or by brief, upon the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, the counsel for the plaintiff moved, on the 17th
March, 1890, for leave to argue that question, and, leave
being granted, it was trgued'on the 31st March, 1890.
The questions at issue on the merits; as well as the question
of jurisdiction will be found fully stated in the opinion of the
court. For convenience in understanding the points made

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

by the counsel for the defendant in error on the point of
jurisdiction a brief statement of that question is here made,
referring to the opinion for more full details.
The State of New Hampshire on the 23d day of June, 1835,
incorporated seven persons as the Nashua and Lowell Railroad
Corporation, with power to construct a railroad from Nashua
to the boundary line of the State of Massachusetts. The
State of Massachusetts, on the 16th-of April, 1836, incorporated
three of those seven persons as the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation with power to construct a railroad from
Lowell to form a junction with the portion of the railroad of
that company lying within the State of New Hampshire.
The State of Massachusetts, on the 10th of April, 1838,
enacted that the stockholders of the New Hampshire company were thereby constituted stockholders of the Massachusetts company, and that the two corporations were thereby
united into one corporation of the same name, the act to
take effect when the legislature of New Hampshire should
have passed a similar act, and the stockholders should have
accepted those acts. The legislature of New Hampshire, on
the 26th day of June, 1838, enacted that the two corporations,
were empowered to unite, and that, after the union, the property should be the joint property of the stockholders of the two
corporations. The material parts of these several statutes are
printed in the margin.1
"11.
"AN

CHAPTER 37 NEW HAMPSHIRE LAWS, 1835.

ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NASHUA AND LOWELL RAILROAD
CORPORATION.

"SECTION 1. That Jesse Bowers, Ira Gay Daniel Abbot, Ben)amin
F. French, John MAT.
Hunt, Peter Clark and Charles J. Fox, their associates,
successors and assigns, be and hereby are constituted and made a corporation by the name of the Nashua and Lowell Railroad corporation,
" SECT. 2. That said corporation be and hereby is empowered to locate,
construct and keep in repair a railroad from any point in the southern
line of the State to some convenient place in or near Nashua village in
"
Dunstable, in such manner as they shall deem most expedient,
" SECT. 12. That said corporation be and hereby is authorized to extend
said railroad from its termination at the southern line of this State into
and through the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, to meet the Boston and

lNASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

359

Statement of the Case.

This suit was brought m the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts by the NTashua and
Lowell Railroad, whenever said Commonwealth will empower said corporation so to do, with slich powers, liabilities and restrictions as may be
deemed expedient; and for this purpose said corporation may increase
their capital stock and create new shares as said Commonwealth may
authorize them to do."
-II.
"AN

CHAPTER 249, MASSACHUSETTS

LAWS, 1836.

ACT TO ESTABLISH THE NASHUA AND LOWELL RAILROAD CORPORATION.

" SECTION 1. That Jesse Bowers, Ira Gay and Daniel Abbot, their
associates and successors, are hereby made a corporation by the name of
the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, with all the powers and
privileges, and subject to all the duties, liabilities and provisions contained
in that part of the thirty-ninth 'chapter of the Revised Statutes, passed
November the fourth, in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirtyfive, which relates to railroad corporations, and in the forty-fourth chapter
of said Revised Statutes; and said corporation is hereby authorized and
empowered to locate, construct and finally complete a railroad from Lowell,
in the county of Middlesex, to form a -junction with that portion of
said Nashua and Lowell Railroad, lying within the State of New Hampshire;"
"III.

CHAPTER 96, MASSACHUSETTS LAWS,

1838.

"AN ACT TO UNITE THE NASHUA AND LOWELL RAILROAD CORPORATIONS OF

MASSACHUSETTS AND NEW HAMPSHIRE.
"SECT. 1. The stockholders of the Nashua and Lowell Raiload Corporation, incorporated by the Legislature of the State of New Hampshire in
the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-five, are hereby constituted
stockholders of the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, incorporated
by the Legislature of this Commonwealth in the year one thousand eight
hundred and thirty-six; and the said two corporations are hereby united
into one corporation by the name of the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, and all the tolls, franchises, rights, powers, privileges and property granted or to be granted, acquired or to be acquired, under the
authority of the said States, shall be held and enjoyed by all the said
stockholders m proportion to their number of shares in either or both of
said corporations.
"SE T. 2. The said stockholders shall hold their meetings; make their
by-laws, appoint their officers and transact all their business as one corporation, provided, that one or more of the officers of said cdrporation shall
be a resident in this Commonwealth, and one or more of them in the State
of New Hampshire, on whom process against said corporation may belegally served, in either State, and that said corporation shall be held to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement or the Case.

Lowell Company as a corporation created by and a citizen
of New Hampshire, and. the jurisdictional question was,
whether it was entitled to sue in that character.
answer in the jurisdiction where the service shall be made and the process
is returnable."
" SECT. 5. The said corporation, so far as their road is situated in
Massachusetts, shall be subject to the general laws of the State to the
same extent as the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, established
by its Legislature in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six,
would be if this act had not been passed.
"SECT. 6. Tis act shall not take effect until the Legislature of the State
of New Hampshire shall have passed an act similar to this, uniting the said
stockholders into one corporation, nor until said acts have been accepted
by the said stockholders at a meeting duly called for that purpose, at which
meeting the said stockholders may ratify and confirm all or any of their
former doings, and adopt them as the acts and proceedings of the said
united corporation."
" IV CHAPTER 21, NEW HAMPSHIRE LAWS, 1838.
"AN ACT TO UNITE THE NASHUA AND LOWELL RAILROAD CORPORATIONS OF
MASSACHUSETTS

AND NEW HAMPSHIRE AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.

"SEcTION 1. That the two corporations, under the name of the Nashua
and Lowell Railroad Corporation, one of which charters was granted by
the Legislature of this State, the twenty-third day of June, one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-five, and the other by the Legislature of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the sixteenth day of April, one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-six, are hereby authorized, from and after the
time when this act shall take effect, to unite said corporations; and all
the tolls, franchises, rights, powers, privileges and property of the said
two corporations shall be held and enjoyed by the stockholders in each
and both, in proportion to their number of shares therein, and from and
after the time said corporations shall be united, all property owned, acquired
,or enjoyed by either of said corporations shall be taken and aecounted to
be the" joint property of the stockholders, for the time being, of said two
corporations.
" SECT. 2. That from and after the time said corporations shall be united,
all the stockholders shall be entitled to the same notice, and shall enjoy the
same right of votingprovided always, that there shall be at least one
officer in each State, who is an inhabitant thereof, on whom process against
said corporation may be served, and that the books and registry of one
corporation shall be taken to be the books and- registry of the other corporation."
"SECT. 6. That the said corporation, so far as their road is situated in
this State, when united by virtue of the provisions of this act, shall be subject to the general laws of this State, to the same extent as said corporation would have been if this act had not been passed.

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

361

Argument for Appellee.

Mr E. J Phe ps and _Yr FrancisA. B'ooks for appellant
in support of the jurisdiction, and on the merits.
Xr J H. Benton, ,r'., on the merits, and in opposition to
the jurisdiction. On the latter point he said
I. Plaintiff is clearly a corporation of both Massachusetts
and New Hampshire. It was the intention of the legislatures of Massachusetts and New Hampshire to create a new corporation which should owe its existence to the acts of union
in each 'State. Railroad Company v Georgia, 98 U. S. 359,
.Zemp*h s &Charleston Railroadv Alabama, 107 U S. 581.
The New Hampshire act provides that the original corporations "shall be one corporation by the name of the Nashua
and Lowell Railroad Corporation." The Massachusetts act provides that the "stockholders of the two corporations are hereby
united into one corporation, by the name of the Nashua and
Lowell Railroad Corporation."
Each act speaks of the united corporation as one corporation, and provides that there shall be in each State at least
one officer, an inhabitant thereof, on whom process against
"said corporation may be served," that the shares of any
stockholder "in said company " shall be subjecit to attachment
and execution.
Each provides that stockholders of the united corporation
"shall. hold their -meetings, make their by-laws, appoint -their
officers and transact* all their business as one corporation;"
and that "said corporation shall be subject to the general
laws of each State, so far as their road is situated therein."
The larger part of the road to be built by the united corporation was -in Massachusetts,. and the legislation of that State
cannot .possibly be treated as -giving a mere license to the New
Hampshire corporation to exercise in Massachusetts corporate
powers conferred upon it by New Hampshire, as was held to
"SEcT. 7. That after said corporations shall be united, according to the
-provisions of this act, they shall be one corporation, by the name-'of the
Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, and all the acts of said corporations, which are valid in said corporations severally, shall be valid in the
united corporation"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellee.

be the case in Pennsylvanta Co. v. St. -outs, Alton &c.
Railroad, 118 U S. 290, 296, and in Goodlett v. Louisville
Railroad,122 U S. 391, 410.
Besides, unless the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation
is one corporation in both States, the decree in this cause will
not bind it in Massachusetts, unless it is made a party.plaintiff, in which case the Circuit Court would have no jurisdiction. If the cause of action set out in the bill does not belong
to the plaintiff as a corporation in bothStates, but to two distinct corporations by the same name, then it belongs to those
corporations jointly, and either is a necessary party plaintiff
with the other to any suit upon it.
It was "in truth a single corporation, with the powers of
two." Cowngton &c. Brzdge Co. v .Xayer, 31 Ohio St. 317,
325, Bznney's Case, 2 Bland, 99, 147, State v _Vorthern Cent.
Railroad, 18 Maryland, 193, 213, Qutncy Bridge Co. v
Adams County, 88 Illinois, 615, Chicago &c. Railway v.
Auditor General, 53 Michigan, 79, .ifissszM?. Valley Co.
v Chmago &a. Railroad,58 Mississippi, 846, State v 3fetz, 32
N. J Law, 199; -Horne v Boston & Mane Railroad, 62
N. H. 454.

The question of jurisdiction in this case is, therefore, simply
whether a corporation existing under the laws of -Massachusetts and New Hampshire, and which is a corporation in
Massachusetts, can be treated in Massachusetts,. for the pur-,
pose of giving jurisdiction to the United States Circuit Court
for the District of that State, as not being a corporation of
that State.
Stated in another form, the question is, Whether the shareholders of a corporation existing under the laws of two States,
and having but one set of shareholders, can, for the purpose
of giving jurisdiction to the Circuit Court for one of the
States, be assumed to be all citizens of the other State F
To state this question, is to answer it in the negative, and
it is thus answered by all the decisions of this court.
OhoW
& Misesi?.p Railroad v WTheeler, 1 Black, 286 (1861),
Railway Company v Whitton, 13 Wall. 270 (1874), -Muller v.
.Dows, 94 IT S.4-44 (1876), and ilfemphzs & Charleston Railroad v. Alabama, 107 U S. 581 (1882).

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

363

Argument for Appellee.

If a corporation existing under the laws of two States, and
as much a citizen of one as of the other, is to be treated when
sued either in the state court or m the Federal court of the
State as a citizen of that State only on the ground that it
cannot there be a corporation of any other State, then it
necessarily follows that when such a corporation brings a
suit, either in the state courts or in the Federal court of
one of the States, it must in like manner be treated as a corporation of that State only, because it cannot there be a
corporation of any other State. It is impossible to say that
such a corporation cannot be sued in one of the States as a
corporation of another -State, and at the same time to say
that it can sue in the State as a citizen of another State.
Under these decisions, it is clear that the Boston and Lowell
Railroad Corporation, a citizen of Massachusetts, could not
sue the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation in the Circuit Court of the District of Massachusetts as a citizen of
lYew HarapsAhre, and that if the Nashu; and Lowell Railroad
Corporation should sue the Boston and Lowell Railroad Corporation in the state court of Massachusetts, the suit could,
not be removed to the Circuit Court upon the ground that the
Nashua and Lowell Company is a citizen of New Hampshire.
How, then, can the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation maintain this suit as a citizen of New Hampshire, in
the Circuit Court' for the District of Massachusetts 2 If it is
to be taken as a citizen of Massachusetts alone,, in any suit
which is brought against it in the State of ,Massachusetts, or
in the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, is it
not equally to be taken as a citizen of Massachusetts alone,
in any suit which it brings in either, of those courts 2
II. It cannot be assumed that the shareholders of the plaintiff are all citizens of -New Hampshire. It has long been
settled law that the jurisdiction of the Federal courts in suits
by or against corporations, depended -upon the citizenship'of
the shareholders of the corporation, who, in case of corporations, created by one State, are conclusively presumed to be all
citizens of that State.
To say thit a corporation is not a citizen, and therefore

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellee.

cannot sue or be sued as such, and then to say that it is to
be conclusively presumed that its members are citizens of
the State by which it is created, and therefore it can be sued
or sue as a citizen of that State, although its members are
not in fact citizens of that State, is in effect to say that it
may sue or be sued as a citizen of that State. As an original proposition it would seem that as the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts in such cases depends upon the citizenship of
the members of the corporation, that membership should be
established as a matter of fact by the party invoking the
jurisdiction of the court, and not by an absolute legal presumption, without reference to the fact.
But it is not necessary to discuss that question in this case,
for, however proper it may be to absolutely presume that the
members of a,corporation created by one State are all citizens
of that State, no such presumption can in the nature of things
arise in the case of a corporation created by the concurrent
legislation of two States, and having one franchise and one set
of stockholders.
The fact that under the laws by which the plaintiff corporation was created its stockholders must be common stockholders in both States, necessarily prevents the presumption that
they are citizens of one State only
The Circuit Court could have jurisdiction of the cause of
action in this suit only by reason of the citizenship of the
parties, and, unless it is to be conclusively presumed that all
the shareholders of the plaintiff are citizens of New Hampshire, the court had no jurisdiction. How can it be conclu-,
sively presumed that the shareholders of a corporation existing
under the legislation of two States, and who are in fact
identical, are citizens of one State rather than of the other.
See Railroad Co. v *Vance, 96 U. S. 450, 458, Attorney
General v Petersburg -Railroad,6 Iredell, 456, Piladelphza & Baltsmore Railroadv Mfaryland, 10 How 376., Railroad Co. v tarrs, 12 Wall. 65, 82, Wilmer v Atlanta &c.
Railroad,2 Woods, 447, Burger v Grand Rapzds &o. Railroad, 22 Fed. Rep. 561, Coyeland v .Memphs& Charleston
Railroad,3 Woods, 651, Railroad Co. v Georgsa, 98 U. S.

NASHUA RAILROAD. v. LOWELL PBAILROAD.

365

Opinion of the Court.

359; St. Louis &c. Railway Co. v Berry, 113 U S. 465,
Pullman Car Co. v Missouri,PacficRailway, 115 U. S. 587.
MR.

JUSTICE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity to compel the defendant, the Boston
and Lowell Railroad Corporation, to account for various sums
of money alleged to have been received by it and used for its
benefit, to which the complainant was entitled, and also to
charge the defendant Hosford personally with the amount
diverted by him to that corporation. The controversy relates
to certain transactions growing out of a joint traffic contract
between the plaintiff and the defendant corporations.
The plaintiff, the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation,
is alleged in the bill to have been duly established as a corporation under the laws of New Hampshire, and to be a citizen
of that State. It will be convenient hereafter in this opinion
to designate it as the Nashua Corporation. On the 1st of
February, 1857, it owned and operated a railroad extending
from Nashua, in New Hampshire, to Lowell, in Massachusetts,
a distance of thirteen miles, of which five miles were in New
Hampshire, and eight miles in Massachusetts. The suit was
brought not only against the Boston and Lowell Railroad
Corporation, alleged in the bill to be a corporation duly established by the laws of Massachusetts and a citizen of that
State, but against Hocum Hosford, its treasurer, and Charles
E. A. Bartlett, of the city of Lowell, 01so citizens of that
State, but as to Bartlett it has been dismissed. On the 1st
of February, 1857, this corporation, which for convenience
we shall call the Lowell Corporation, owned and operated a
railroad extending from Boston to Lowell, Massachusetts, a
distance of twenty-six miles, with a branch to the town of
Woburn a mile and a half in length.
On the 1st of. February, 1857, the two corporations entered
into a contract in writing with each other, "for the promotion
of their mutual interest through a more efficient and economical joint operation and management of their roads and for the
better security of their respective investments as well as for

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

Opinion of the Court.
the convenience and interest of the public," that their roads
with their branches should "be worked and managed as one
road," under certain conditions and stipulations which were
stated at length. The contract recited that a large portion of
the business of the two roads was joint business passing over
the roads and through the branches of both parties, making
desirable a common policy and unanimity of management,
and that in the transaction of their business there was a mutual interest, both as to the mode of transaction and as to the
tariff upon the same, as well as in all other matters relating
thereto, and that the two corporations, by operating under a
common management, would thereby be enabled to do business
with greater facility, greater regularity, and at a greater saving of expense.
The Nashua Corporation had at this time leases of the Stony
Brook Railroad, extending from its line at North, Chelmsford
to Groton Junction, about fourteen miles in Massachusetts,
and of the Wilton Railroad extending from Nashua to Wilton,
about thirteen miles in New Hampshire. The contract was
originally for three years, but by a supplemental agreement
of October 1, 1858, it was extended to twenty years. Among
other things, it provided.
That the roads of the parties should be "operated and
managed by one agent, to be chosen by the concurrent vote of
a majority of the directors of each party, and who might be
removed by a like vote or by the unanimous vote of either
board," and that the respective boards of directors should,
"by such concurrent action, exercise the same control over
the management as is usual with boards of railroad directors
in ordinary cases."
That the corporations should each surrender to the joint management thus constituted "the entire control of their respective roads, shops, depots, furniture, machinery, tools, or other
property necessary for the proper maintenance and working
of the joint roads," reserving only certain specified property,
necessary for the operation of the roads, consisting principally
of real estate.
That the contracts of the Nashua Corporation with the

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

367

Opinion of the Court.

Wilton and Stony Brook roads should be assumed by the
joint Management and carried out, and that the contract with
the Wilton road, which was to expire on the 1st of. April,
1858, might be renewed during the continuance of the joint
management.
That the&Nashua Corporation should within the year 1857,
at its own cost, erect a freight depot, with the necessary
approaches and furniture, in the city of Lowell, upon its site
at Western Avenue, which, during the continuance of the
agreement, might be used for the accommodation of the joint
business.
That the Lowell Corporation should complete within the
year 1857, at its own separate cost, the new passenger depot
at Causeway Street in Boston, then under construction, together with the tracks, bridges, and all necessary fixtures
.connected with the extension into that city, and at its separate expense make such alterations in the existing Boston
passenger depot as had been designed by the Lowell Corporation for converting it into a freight depot, and also, without
charge to the Nashua Corporation, complete at the earliest
practicable time the crossing over the Fitchburg Railroad and
the connection with the Grand Junction Railroad.
That the road-bed, bridges, superstructure, depots, buildings
and fixtures of each road should be kept as near as might be
in like relative repair from their then state and condition, and
that all casualties and damages to the same, except fire risks
on buildings, should be at the common risk, and charged in
the current joint account, and in case of the destruction by
fire of any buildings or injury to the same, that the owner
should rebuild or replace them at his own cost.
That the income and expense accounts of the joint roads
should be made up, as nearly as conveniently might be, by
estimate to the close of each month, and the net balance
should be divided and paid over, on account, to the respective
treasurers of, the two corporations, thirty-one per cent to the
Nashua Corporation and sixty-nine per cent to the Lowell
Corporation, subject to a final. adjustment at the semi-annual
closing of accounts, and that on the first" days of April and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

October in each year the said accounts should be accurately
closed and balanced by settlement with each party covering
and adjusting all previous payments on account, the Nashua
Corporation receiving as its proportion thirty-one per cent of
the said joint net income and the Lowell Corporation receiving
as its proportion sixty-nine per cent thereof.
That each corporation might separately and on its own
account declare such dividends upon its own stock, and payable from its own separate funds, as it might deem expedient,
it being distinctly provided that "the interest upon the debts
of either party must also be paid out of such separate share,
and not from the common fund."
As thus seen, the contract provided that the two roads and
their branches should be operated as a single road by a coinmon agent to be appointed by the directors of both companies, and removable by them or by the unanimous action of
either, that the roads and property of each party should be
kept in a like relative condition and repair as they then were
at their joint expense, that the Nashua Corporation should, in
857. erect at its own expense a freight depot, with necessary
approaches, in the city of Lowell, and the Lowell Corporation,
in the same year, at its expense complete a passenger depot,
with necessary approaches, in the city of Boston, and alter
the existing passenger depot there, also, at its own expense
into a freight depot, that the interest upon the debts contracted by either party should be paid out of its own share,
and not from the common fund, and that the net income
should be divided in the proportion of thirty-one per cent to
the plaintiff, the Nashua Corporation, and of sixty-nine per
cent to the defendant,, the Lowell Corporation - payments on
account of such division to be made upon monthly estimates,
and final settlement and adjustment to be had semi-annually
The contract did not provide that the property of either corporation should be improved, or other property be acquired
by either, at the joint expense of both.
Under this contract and during its continuance, the two
corporations united their business and conducted- it with
marked success. By leases from other companies and the ac-

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

369

Opinion of the Court.

quisition of branch roads, a large mileage -was added to their
lines and a correspondingly increased business was transacted
by them. In 187-4, the :Nashua Corporation reported to its
stockholders that-the two corporations then operated under
their joint management one hundred and thirty-five miles,
more than double the mileage at the time the contract was
entered into. It is stated that thirty-three miles of this distance were added by the acquisition of the Salem and Lowell
and the Lowell and Lawrence roads in 1858, and sixteen miles
of it by the purchase of the Lexigton and Arlington road in
1869. Contracts.were made for business with connecting lines
to such an extent that the two roads, during the late years of
their joint operation, transported annually in the neighborhood of three hundred thousand tons of freight and two hundred thousand passengers. The net income resulting from this
extended business was satisfactorily apportioned pursuant to
the contract, thirty-one per cent going to the Nashua Corporation and sixty-nine per cent going to the Lowell Corporation,
except as they were affected by two transactions of which the
Nashua Corporation complains. One of these transactions was
the alleged illegal appropriation by the Lowell Corporation of
$181,962, for a passenger depot at Boston, erected by that corporation for its own benefit, and which complainant contends
it was entitled to receive as its share of the net earnings of the
joint management.
The other transaction was the alleged
illegal appropriation of $26,124, for interest on the amount
expended by the Lowell Corporation in buying a controlling
interest in the stock of two other railroad companies, the Lowell and Lawrence Company and the Salem and Lowell Company, which the complainant contends it was also entitled to
receive as its share of the net earnings of the joint management. It is to compel an accounting for these sums and their
payment to the complainant that the present suit is brought.
Before passing, however, upon the validity of these claims
a question raised as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
must be considered. Its jurisdiction was assumed upon the
diverse citizenship of the parties, and, upon the allegations of
the bill, rightfully assumed. Although a corporation is not a
VOL.

cxxxvr-24

OCTOBER TERAT,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

citizen of a State within the meaning of many provisions of
the national Constitution, it is settled that where rights of
property or of action are sought to be enforced, it will be
treated as a citizen of the State where created, within the
clause extending the judicial power of the United States to
controversies between citizens of different States. The plaintiff was created a corporation by the legislature of New
Hiampshire in June, 1835. It is therefore to be treated as a
citizen of that State. Railway Co. v Wlhtton, 13 Wall. 270,
283.
But it also appears that in April, 1836, the legislature of
Massachusetts constituted the same persons a corporation of
that State, who had been thus incorporated in New Iampshire, giving to them the same name and authorizing the new
corporatmon to build that portion of the railroad between
Nashua in New Hampshire and Lowell in Massachusetts ying
within the latter State.
It also appears that in April, 1838, the legislature of Massachusetts passed an act to unite the two corporations - the one
created by New Hampshire and the one created by Massachusetts - the first section of which was as follows
"The stockholders of the Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, incorporated by the legislature of the State of New
Hampshire in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirtyfive, are hereby constituted stockholders of the Nashua and
Lowell Railroad Corporation, incorporated by the legislature
of this Commonwealth in the year one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-six, and the said two corporations are hereby
united into one corporation by the name of the Nashua and
Lowell Railroad Corporation, and all the tolls, franchises,
rights, powers, privileges and property granted, or to be
granted, acquired or to be acquired, under the authority of the
said States, shall be held and enjoyed by all the said stockholders in proportion to their number of shares in either or
both of said corporations."
There were other provisions designed to enable the two
corporations to conduct their business as one corporation. The
act, however, declared that it should not take effect until the

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

371

Opinion of the Court.

legislature of.New Hampshire had passed a similar act uniting
the said stockholders into one corporation, nor until the acts
had been accepted by the stockholders at a meeting called for
that purpose.
In June of the same year, 1838, the legislature of New
Hampshire passed an act authorizing the two corporations to
unite, and providing in such case that "all the tolls, franohises, rights, powers, privileges and property" of the two
corporations should be held and enjoyed by the stockholders
in each and both in proportion to their number of shares
therein, and that all property owned, acquired or enjoyed by
either of the corporations should be taken and accounted to
be the joint property of the stockholders of the two corporations, and that the two corporations should be one - the act to
be in force when accepted by the stockholders of the corpora'tions at a meeting called for that purpose.
It does not appear, so far as disclosed by the record, except
in the allegations of the defendant, that there was any formal
acceptance of this act by the stockholders of the two corporations, but it would seem that the corporations acted upon its
supposed acceptance, for the defendants pleaded to the jurisdiction of the court on the ground that, by the legislation
mentioned, the complainant was not a corporation of New
Hampshire, and consequently a citizen of that State, but was
a corporation of Massachusetts, and thus a citizen of that
State.
In the bill as originally filed, the Nashua Corporation was
the only complainant. By a subsequent amendment three
persons, citizens of New Hampshire, stockholders of that corporation, were united as complainants. To the bill, as thus
amended, the defendants pleaded as follows. "That this court
ought not to take further cognizance of or sustain the said bill
of complaint, because they say that they, the said defendants,
at the time of filing said bill, were, and still are all, each and
every one citizens of the State of Massachusetts, and that said
plaintiffs, at the time. of filing said bill, were not, and still are
not all, each and every one citizens of another State, but that
the said Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, one of said.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs, at the time of filing said bill, was, and still is, a corporation duly established and existing under and by virtue of
the laws of the State of Massachusetts, and a citizen of said
State of Massachusetts, and, at the time of filing said bill, was
not, and still is not, a corporation established and existing by
the laws of the State of New Hampshire, and a citizen of said
State of New Hampshire. All of which matters and things
these defendants do aver to be true, and are ready to verify
Wherefore they plead the same to the whole of said amended
bill, and pray the judgment of this honorable court whether
they should be compelled to make any other or further answer
to said bill." This plea was argued upon an agreement as to
the facts.
This plea was overruled, the court stating in its opinion that
it seemed "that the defendant corporation might go into New
Hampshire and there sue the plaintiff, as a New Hampshire corporation, in the Federal court, although it could not bring such
suit in the district of Massachusetts against the New Hampshire
corporation, because no service upon the New Hampshire corporation as such could be got in this district, if for no other
reason," and adding that "if the defendant could sue the plain,tiff in the Federal court for New Hampshire, notwithstanding
-the fact of the plaintiff being chartered under the laws of both
States, there would seem to be no good reason why the plaintiff, claiming under its New Hampshire charter, should not be
allowed to sue the defendant in the Federal court for Massachusetts, as it would be impossible for the defendant in such
case to deny the title of the plaintiff as predicated upon the
New Hampshire charter, or to deprive the plaintiff of the benefit of its New Hampshire citizenship thus acquired." 8 Fed.
Rep. 458.
A more satisfactory answer would, perhaps, have been,
that whatever effect may be attributed to the legislation of
Massachusetts in creating a new corporation by the same
name with that of the complainant, or in allowing a union of
its business and property with that of the complainant, it did
not change the existence of the complainant as a- corporation of New Hampshire, nor. its character as a citizen of that

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

373,

Opinion of the Court.

State, for the enforcement of its rights of action in the national courts against citizens of other States. Indeed, no
other State could by its legislation change this character of
that corporation, however great the rights and privileges
bestowed upon it. The new corporation created by Massachusetts, though bearing the same name, composed of the
same stockholders and designed to accomplish the same purposes, is not the same corporation with the one in New
Hampshire. Identity of name, powers and purposes does not
create an identity of origin or existence, any more than any
other statutes, alike in language, passed. by different legislative bodies, can properly be said to owe their existence to
both. To each statute and to the corporation created by it
ther can be but one legislative paternity
But on this point we will hereafter speak more at large.
At present it is sufficient to say that the decision of the court
overruling the plea in abatement upon the facts agreed upon
disposed of the question of jurisdiction in the court below
It is true the defendants, in their answers, subsequently filed,
also made the same objection. Formerly the objection to the.
jurisdiction, from a denial of the complainant's averment of
citizenship, could only be raised by a plea in abatement or by
demurrer, and not by answer. De Sobry v Nicholson, 3 Wall
420, 423, Slieffard v Grave8, 14 How 504, 509, Wicklif
v Owzngs, 17 How 4'7. This rule is modified by the act of
March 3, 1875, determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of the United States. 18 Stat. 472. 'That statute
provides that if in any suit -commenced in one of such courts
"it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court, at
any time after such suit has been brought or removed thereto,
that such suit does not really and substantially involve a
dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of
said Circuit Court, or that the parties to said suit have been
improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs
or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable
or removable under this act, the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein,. but shall dismiss the suit or remand
it to the court from which it was remoVed,. as justice may

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

require, and shall make such order as to costs as shall be
just."
By this statute the tune at which such objection may be
raised is not thus restricted, but it may be taken at any time
after suit brought in the cases mentioned. The principal object of the statute was to relieve the national courts from the
necessity of passing upon cases where it was plain that no
question was involved within their jurisdiction, and thus free
them from a consideration of controversies of a frivolous and
questionable character, and to prevent fraudulent and collusive
attempts to invoke the jurisdiction of those courts, as had frequently been the practice, by colorable transfers of property or
choses in action from a citizen of one State to a citizen of another, to enable the latter to go into those courts, the original
owner still retaining an interest in the property or choses in
action transferred, or taking a contract for a retransfer of the
same to himself after the termination of the litigation. In
such cases it is undoubtedlv the duty of the court below, of its
own motion, to deny its jurisdiction, and of this court, on
appeal or writ of error, to see that that jurisdiction has in
no respect been thus inposed upon. Morrms v Gilman, 129
U S.315, 326, Farmzngton v Pillsbury, 114 U S.138, 143.
If the question of jurisdiction could be raised in the answers
of the defendants after the decision upon the issue on the plea
in abatement, notwithstanding the decisions cited and the 39th
Equity Rule of this court, the result in tnis case, though not
perhaps in all cases, would be the same. Replications were
duly filed to the answers, the effect of which was to deny the
allegations respecting the acceptance of the acts having for
their object the union of the two corporations, and those allegations were entirely unsupported by the evidence or by
anything in the record, and neither in the final decree of the
court, nor in its opinion, was any allusion made to the subject.
The only evidence bearing upon the question is fbund in the legislation of the two States, New Hampshire and Massachusetts,
and it is plain, as already stated, that no legislation of Massachusetts could possibly affect the existence of the complainant
as a corporation of New Hampshire, or its character as a citi-

NASHUA. RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

375

Opimon of the Court.

zen of that State. The act of New Hampshire of 1838, whilst
in.terms. authorizing the two corporations to unite, did not
confer any new franchise or right upon either of them. All
that it did was to permit the funding or conversion of the separate interests of each stockholder in each corporation, into a
common or joint or undivided interest in both, and to declare
that after the two corporations were united all property owned
by either should be considered-the joint property of the stockholders of both. There is nothing in these provisions looking
to any abandonment of its corporate character as a creation
of New Hampshire or its citizenship of that State.
There are many decisions both of the Federal and state
courts which establish the rule that however closely two corporations of different States may unite their interests, and
though even the stockholders of the one may become the
stockholders of the other and their business be conducted by
the same directors, the separate identity of each, as a corporation of the State by which it was created, and as a citizen of
that State, is not thereby lost.
In Barnum v Blackstone CanaZ Co., 1 Sumner, 46, we
have an instance of this kind. It .there appeared that in
January, 1823, the legislature of Massachusetts created a
corporation by the name of the Blackstone Canal Company,
for the purpose of constructing -acertain canal in that State.
It also appeared that in June of that year, the legislature of
Rhode Island incorporated a company by the same -name,
the Blackstone Canal Company, and authorized it to construct -a certain canal within the limits of that State. In
May, 1827, the legislature of Rhode Island ceclared that the
stockholders of the Massachusetts Company should be stock,holders in .the Rhode Island Company as if they had .orignally subscribed thereto, if both corporations should agree
thereto, and that the books and proceedings of the original
and associated stockholders should be deemed the books of
both. And the court held that, though the two corporations
were created in adjacent States by the same name, to construct a canal in each of the States, respectivelyyand afterwards b%, subsequent acts were pernittcd to unite their inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ests, their separate corporate existence was not merged, and
that the legislature only created a unity of stock and interest.
In giving its decision the court, by Mr. Justice Story, said
"Although in virtue of these several acts, the corporations,"
(one of Rhode Island and one of Massachusetts,) "acquired a
unity of interests, it by no means follows that they ceased to
exist as distinct and different corporations. Their powers,
their rights, their privileges, their duties, remained distinct
and several, as before, according to their respective acts of
incorporation. LKeither could exercise the rights, powers or
privileges conferred on the other. There was no corporate
identity Neither was merged in the other. If it were otherwise, which became merged2 The acts of incorporation
create no merger, and neither is pointed out as survivor or
successor. We must treat the case, then, as one of distinct
corporations, acting within the sphere of their respective charters for purposes of common interest, and not as a case where
all the powers of both were concentrated in one. The union
was of interests and stocks, and not a surrender of personal
identity or corporate existence by either corporation."
In M1uller v Dows, 94 U. S. 444, 447, the bill averred that
of the three complainants two were citizens and residents of
the State of INew York and one a citizen and resident of the
State of Missouri. The two original defendants were corporations, namely, the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company
and the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company,
and they were alleged to be citizens of the State of Iowa. It
was contended that the Chicago and Southwestern Railway
Company could not claim to be a corporation created by the
laws of Iowa, because it was formed by a consolidation of
the Iowa company with another of tho same name chartered
by the laws of Missouri, the consolidation having been allowed
by the statutes of each State. Hence it was argued that the
corporation was created by the laws of Iowa and of Missouri,
and, as one of the plaintiffs was a citizen of Mlissouri, it was
urged that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction. But the
court replied, speaking by Mr. Justice Strong "We cannot
assent to this inference. It is true the provisions of the stat-

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

377

Opinion of the 'Court.

utes of Iowa, respecting railroad consolidation of roads within
the State. with others outside of the State, were that any railroad company organized under the laws of the State, or that
might thus be organized, should have power to intersect, join
and unite their railroads constructed or to be constructed in the
State, or in any adjoining State, at such point on the state
line, or at any other point, as might be mutually agreed upon
by said companies, and such railroads were authorized 'to
merge and consolidate the stock of the respective companies,
making one. joint stock company of the railroads thus connected.' The Missouri statutes contained similar provisions,
and with these laws in force the consolidation of the Chicago
and Southwestern Railways was effected. The two companies
became one. But in the State of Iowa that one was an Iowa
corporation, existing under the laws of that State alone. The
laws of Missouri had no operation in Iowa."
The case of The St. Louss, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad
Company v The Indianapolis& St. Louts Railroad Company,
which was before the Circuit Court. of the United States for
the District of Indiana, and is reported.in 9 Bissell, 144, and
which came before this court under the title of The Pennsylvana Railroad Company v The St. Iouts, Alton & Terre
Haute Railroad Qompany, and is reported in 118 U S.290,
bears a strong resemblance to the one now before the court.
In the bill the plaintiff was alleged to be a corporation created
under the laws of Illinois and the defendants were alleged to
be corporations created under the laws of Indiana and of
Pennsylvania. To the bill a plea was interposed in which it
was alleged that under various acts of the legislatures of
Illinois and Indiana two corporations were created, one the
plaintiff, The St. Lous, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad Company, and the other the same company in name in Indiana,
that they bad been consolidated by those States, and were so
inseparably connected together that the plaintiff was really a
corporation as well of Indiana as of Illinois, and that, as some
of the defendants were corporations of the State of Indiana
the court could not take jurisdiction of the case. But the
court held that the fact that the two corporations created by

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

different States had been consolidated under the laws of those
States, and that the railroad was operated by virtue of that
consolidation as one entire line of road, did not prevent one
of those corporations from bringing suit in the Federal court
as a corporation of the State where it was created, against the
corporation with which it was consolidated, which was created
by the other State. Said the court, speaking by Judge Drummond "If the defendant corporation, though consolidated
with another of a different State, can be sued in the Federal
court in the State of its creation, as a citizen thereof," (referring to the cases of Railwcty Co. v Whitton, 13 Wall. 270, and
.Jialler v -Dows,94 U S. 444,) "why can it not sue as a
citizen of the State which created it 2 I can see no difference
in principle. It seems to me that when the plaintiff comes
into the Federal court, if a corporation of another State, it is
clothed with all the attributes of citizenship which the laws
of that State confer, and the shareholders of that corporation
must be conclusivelv regarded as citizens of the State which
creates the corporation, precisely the same as if it were a
defendant.- So I do not see why, if' the plaintiff in this case
alleges, as it does, that it isa corporation created by the laws
of Illinois, it cannot institute a suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States of Indiana against a corporation of that State."
The case turned upon the point whether the plaintiff corporation of Illinois bad become also an Indiana corporation
so as to lose its existence or identity and citizenship as an
Illinois corporation. The court held in the negative, that it
still remained an Illinois corporation, with all its rights of
action as such in the United States courts.
When the case came to this court the decision of the court
below was affirmed, but it would seem that when it was
considered here the plea to the jurisdiction filed in the court
below had been withdrawn. The question of jurisdiction was,
however, examined by the court of its own motion. "It does
not seem," said the court, "to admit of question that a corporation of one State owning property and doing business in
another State by the permission of the latter, does not thereby
become a citizen of this State also. And so a corporation of

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

379

Opinion of the Court.

Illinois, anthorized by its laws to build a railroad across the
State from the Mississippi River to its eastern boundary may
by the permission of the State of Indiana, extend its road a
few miles within the limits of the latter, or, indeed, through
the entire State, and may use and operate the line as one road
by the permission of the State, without thereby becoming a
corporation or a citizen of the State of Indiana. Nor does it
seem to us that an act of the legislature conferring upon this
corporation of Illinois, by its Illinois corporate name, such.
powem to enable it to use and control that part of the road
within the State of Indiana, as have been conferred upon it
by the State which created it, constitutes it a corporation
of Indiana." pp. 295, 296. And again "In a case where
the corporation already exists, even if adopted by the law of
another State and invested with full corporate powers, it does
not thereby become such new corporation of another State,
until it does some act which signifies its acceptance of this
legislation and its purpose to be governed by it. We think
what has occurred between the State of Indiana and this
Illinois corporation falls short of this." p. 296.
Many cases might be cited from the state courts illustrative
and confirmatory of the doctrine of this case. In Racine &
.2-Lssissp ? ailroad Co. v .Farmers' Loan & Tr'ast Co., 49
Illinois, 331, it appeared that in April, 1852, the legislature of
Wisconsin incorporated the Racine, Janesville and Mississippi
Railf'oad Company, and that the legislature of Illinois, in February, 1853, incorporated the Rockton and Freeport Railroad
Company, both companies authorized to construct railways,
that in February, 1854, these two companies entered into an
agreement to fully merge and consolidate their capital stock,
powers, privileges, immunities and franchises. In February,
1855, both the legislature of Illinois and the legislature of Wisconsin changed the name of these two companies to that of
the Racine and Mississippi Railroad Company It also appeared
that in IS51 the Savannah Branch Railroad Company was
organized under the general railroad law of Illinois, and that
in January, 1856, this company entered .into articles of agreement with the Racine and Mississippi Railroad Company, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

which its stock was consolidated with that of the latter company, that a majority in interest of the stockholders of the
Savannah Company ratified the articles, and that in 1857 the
legislature of Illinois changed the name of that company to
the Racine and Mississippi Railroad Company Thus the names
of three railroad companies, created by three different States,
were changed to the same name, and were allowed to be consolidated together and act as one company The Supreme
Court of Illinois held that this consolidation did not convert
them into one company in fact. Said the court. "Our view
of the effect of the consolidation between the Rockton Company (of Illinois) and the Wisconsin Company, which we hold
to have been legally made, is briefly -this While it created a
community of stock and of interest between the two companies,
it did not convert them into one company, in the same way
and to the same degree that might follow a consolidation of
two companies within the same State. Neither Illinois nor
Wisconsin, in authorizing the consolidation, can have intended
to abandon all jurisdiction over its own corporation created by
itself. Indeed, neither State could take jurisdiction over the
property or proceedings of the corporation beyond its own
limits, and as is said by the court in Ohio & .iWsss2p Pailroad v Wheeler, 1 Black, 286, 297, a corporation 'can have no
existence beyond the limits of the State or sovereignty which
brings it into life and endows it with its faculties and powers.'"
In Quincy Railroad Bridge Co. v Adams Co., 88 Illinois,
615
,.619, the plaintiff was a consolidated corporation, so
called, created by the laws of Illinois and Missouri for bridging the Mississippi River between those States. The plaintiff,
a bridge company, to avoid taxation in Illinois, claimed to be a
corporation of both States, and not of either alone. The court
in its opinion said. "It is said by appellants, that this corporation, although it derived some of its powers, and in part its
corporate existence, from this State, (Illinois,) derived an equal
part from the sovereign State of vissouri, and, therefore, they
are not a corporation created under the laws of either State.
To this it is answered, and we think satisfactorily, that the legislatures of this State and of Missouri cannot act jointly, nor

NASIHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

381

Opinion of the Court

can any legislation of the last-named State have the least
effect in creating a corporation in this State. Hence the cor
porate existence of appellants, considered as a corporation of
this State, must spring from the legislation of the State which
by its own vigor performs the act. The States of Illinois and
Missouri have no power to unite m passing any legislative act.
It is impossiblk, in the very nature of their organizations, that
they can do so. They cannot so fuse themselves into a single
sovereignty, and as such create a body politic which shall be
a corporation of the two States without being a corporation
of each State or of either State."
In Ohscago &c iorthwestern Railroadw The Auditor General, 53 Michigan, 91, it appeared that the general railroad
law of Michigan made roads tha't lie partly within and partly
without the State, taxable on so much of their gross receipts
as corresponded to the ratio of their local to their entire
length. A local company was consolidated with a foreign one
that controlled a number of other consolidated roads and several leased lines besides, and in considering the effe6t of the
consolidation the court said, speaking by Chief Justice Cooley
"It is familiar law that each corporation has its existence
and domicil, so far as the term can be applicable to the artificial person, within the territory of the sovereign creating'it,
it comes into existence there by an exercise of sovereign will,
and though it may be allowed to exercise corporate functions
within another sovereignty, it is impossible to conceive of one
joint act, perf6ried simultaneously by two sovereign States
which shall bring a single corporation into being, except it be
by compact or treaty There may be separate consent given
for the consolidation of corporations separately created, but
when the two unite they severally bring to the new entity the
powers and privileges already possessed, and the consolidated
company simply exercises in each jurisdiction the powers the
corporation there chartered had possessed, and succeeds there
to its privileges."
It would seem clear, from the decisions we have cited, as
well as on general principles, that the plaintiff in this case
must be considered simply in its character as a corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

created by the laws of New Hampshire, and as such a citizen
of that State, and so entitled to go into the Circuit Court of
the United States and bring its bill against a citizen of any
other State, and that its union or consolidation with another
corporation of the same name organized under the laws of
Massachusetts, did not extinguish or modify its character as a
citizen of New Hampshire, or give it any such additional citizenship in Massachusetts as to defeat its right to go into the
Circuit Court of the United States in that district.
If the position taken by the defendants could be maintained then they could sue in the Federal court in New Hampshire the New Hampshire corporation, whilst that corporation
could not enforce its claims in the Federal court in Massachusetts against the Massachusetts corporation. From the cases
we have cited, it is evident that by the general law railroad
corporations created by two or more States, though joined in
their interests, in the operation of their roads, in the issue of
their stock, and in the division of their profits, so as practically to be a single corporation, do not lose their identity,
and that each one has its existence and its standing in the
courts of the country, only by virtue of the legislation of the
State by which it is created. The union of name, of officers,
of business and of property does not change their distinctive
character as separate corporations.
We turn now to a consideration of the claims put forth by
the plaintiff for a restoration to it of moneys appropriated to
the use and for the benefit of the defendaht corporation. As
seen by the provisions of the joint traffic contract given
above, the Lowell Corporation was to complete the construction of a passenger station, with all necessary approaches, in
the city of Boston in 1857, at its own expense, and to alter
the passenger depot then existing there into a freight depot
also at its own expense, and the Nashua Corporation was, at
its own expense, to erect a freight depot at the city of Lowell
for the accommodation of the joint business, and in case of
destruction of buildings belonging to either party, or damage
to them by fire, they were to be rebuilt or replaced by the
owner. As observed by counsel, it would appear that when

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

383

Opinion of the Court.

entered into it was not the intent of the contract that either
party should be charged for improvements, additions or even
restorations, in the real estate or terminal facilities of the
other. But with the increase of business under the joint
management, it became evident, if the business was to be
retained, that larger terminal facilities at Boston were necessary, and the character and extent of the needed improvements were the subject of frequent consideration, among the
directors of the two companies. In the meantime the construction of another passenger station there was commenced
by the Lowell Company And at a meeting of the directors
of the Nashua Corporation on the 23d of July, 1872, it was
voted as follows "That the expenditures made and to be
made by the Boston and Lowell Railroad Corporation for
land and building in Boston for a new station, and the expenditures made and to be made by said corporation for the
building and completing the Mystic River Railroad, and for
the improvements in Winchester for a new station and land
for railway purposes, to the amount of $20,000, are to be
treated in the management of the business under the joint
business contract existing between said corporation and the
Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation as follows, viz. The
said Boston and Lowell Railroad Corporation are to be paid
the interest upon such expenditures made and to be made, at
the rate of seven per cent per annum, at the end of each six
months, out of the receipts of the joint corporations under
said contract, and which is to be charged as a part of the
expenses of operating said railways under said contract, 'and
the cashier of said two corporations and treasurer of the
Boston and Lowell Railroad Corporation is hereby directed
to make up an interest account upon such expenditures to
April 1, 1872, and pay the amount found due to the Boston
and Lowell Railroad Corporation out of the joint receipts of
said two corporations."
Under the authority of this vote there was deducted from
the net earnings of the joint management the interest on the
expenditures incurred in the construction of the passenger
station in the city of Boston, at the rate of seven per cent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the same being treated as operating expenses of the road.
The amount of the net earnings thus diverted from the Nashua
Company, being thirty-one per cent of the interest on the
whole expenditure incurred, is alleged to have been $181,962,
and the right to thus appropriate those earnings depends upon
the sufficiency of that authority The question thus presented is not free from difficulty As a general rule, we
should not hesitate to say that the directors of the Nashua
Company could not authorize, without the previous approval
of its stockholders, the construction of a passenger station at
a city in a State foreign to that in which it was created, and
to which its own road did not extend, or the payment of any
portion of the cost of the construction. Such expenditures
would not be considered as falling within the ordinary scope
of their powers. See Railway Co. v Allerton, 18 Wall.
233, Dams v Old Colony Railroad,131 3Ifass. 258, and cases
there cited, particularly Colman v -EasternCounties Railway,
10 Beavan, 1, and Bagskaw v Eastern, Union Railway, 7 Hare,
114. But the fact that the increased facilities provided at
Boston were necessary to enable the joint management to
retain its extended business, in which the iNashua Company
was of course directly interested, changes the position of the
directors of that company with reference to such expenditures, and brings them within the general scope of the directors' powers. Such is the conclusion of a majority of the
court, and, therefore, the suit cannot be maintained for the
restoration to the complainant of moneys thus expended,
which otherwise would have gone to it as net earnings of the
joint management.
But the purchase of the controlling interest in the stock of
the Lowell and Lawrence and of the Salem and Lowell Railroad Companies stands upon a different footing. That was a
matter solely for the Lowell Corporation. The purcnase was
never authorized by any vote of the directors of the Nashua
Company At the time those roads were under lease to the
Lowell Corporation, and had been taken into the joint account
and the net earnings divided between the two corporations
in the same ratio as were the earnings of their own roads.

NASHUA RAILROAD v. LOWELL RAILROAD.

385

Oinion of the Court.

This gave to the Nashua Corporation all the benefits that
could possibly arise from the ownership by the Lowell Corporation of a controlling interest in their capital stock. The
additional burden of the purchase could in no way, therefore, be cast upon the Nashua Corporation without the consent of its stockholders, and no such consent was given either
by them, nor, as already said, was any given by its directors.
The pretence for the purchase was that the leases were invalid, and that other parties might otherwise obtain control
of those roads, and thus injuriously affect the business of the
joint management. The charter of the complainant did not
extend to the purchase of controlling interests in the railroads of other States under the apprehension that such roads
might become business competitors. The complainant is,
therefore, entitled to an accounting by the Lowell Company
for the net earnings of the joint management which were
appropriated towards the interest on the sums expended in
the purchase of the stock of those companies, and to the
payment .of the amount found due to it upon such accounting.
The decree of the court below will be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with
this opinion, and
B ss so ordered.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLER, MR. JusTieE GRAY. and MR.
JusmEu LA&tAR dissented on the question of jurisdiction.
Mn. JusTcE BLATcHFoRD did not sit in this case, or take
any part in its decision.

