OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

extent and their soundness is not questioned. But, upon an
examination of the cases in which they were rendered, it will be
found that the legislation adjudged invalid imposed a tax upon
some snstrument or subject of commerce, or exacted a license
feefron partiesengaged zn comercalparsudts,or created an
impediment to the free navigation of some public waters, or
prescribed conditions in accordance with which commerce in
particular -articles or between particular places was required
to be conducted. In all the cases the legislation condemned
opQrated directly upon commerce, either by- way of tax upon
its business, license upon its pursuit in particular channels or
conditions for carrying it on."
It resultsfrom what we have sazd that the judgment of the
court below should be, and st heresy zs, reversed, and the
case ss remanded to that courtfor further proceedings sn
conformsty with ths opzn on.
19R. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

JuSTI CE BREwER

MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY

and MR.

dissented.

NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 294.

COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued April 24, 25, 1890. -Decided

May 19, 1890.

A railroad which is a link in a through line of road by which passengers
and freight are carried into a State from other States and from that State
to other States, is engaged in the business of interstate conimerce; and
a tax imposed by such State upon the corp.oration owning such road for
the privilege of keeping an office in the State, for the Use o" its officers,
stockholders, agents and employ~s (it being a colporation created by
another State) is a tax upon commerce among the States, and as such is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

NORFOLK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PENN.
Opimon of the Court.

.Mr 2. E. Olmstead for plaintiff in error.
_Mr don F Sanderson, (with whom was Afr lrilliam 8.
rirpatrzokon the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR.JusTwE LAmai delivered the opinion of the court.

The 16th section of an act of the legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, approved June 7,1879, provides as
follows
"That from and after the first day of July,, Anno Dommi
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-nine, no foreign corporation, except foreign insurance companies, which does not invest and use its capital in this Commonwealth, shall have an
office or offices in this Commonwealth for the use of its officers,
stockholders, agents o.r employes? unless it shall have first
obtained from the auditor general an annual license so to do,
and for said license every such corporation shall pay into the
state treasury, for the use of the Commonwealth, annually,
one-fourth.of a mill on each dollar of capital stock which said
company is authorized to have, and the auditor general. shall
not issue a license to any corporation -until said license fee
shall have been paid; The auditor general and state treasurer
are hereby authorized to settle and have collected an account
against any company violating the provisions of this section,
for the amount of such license fee, together with a penalty of
fifty per centum for failure to pay the same Provmded, That
no license fee shall be necessary for any corporation paying a
tax under any previous section of this act, or whose capital
stock or a majority thereof is owned or controlled by a corporation of this State which .does-pay a tax under any previous section of this act." 'Laws of Penn., Sess. 1879, 120, 1W,
122, ยง 16.
Under the 'authority vested in him by that statute the auditor general of the State assesseda license tax against the Norfolk and Western IRailroad Company, a corporation existing
under the laws of Virginia and Nest Virgina, for each of the
two years ending July 1, ,1885, on its capital stock of
$25,000,000,. at. the rate prescribed in thd act, amounting to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

$6250 a year, on account of its having an office for the use
of -its officers, stockholders, agents and employgs, in the city
of Philadelphia. The case now before this court involves the
claim of the State for the year ending July 1, 1884, only As
permitted by the laws of Pennsylvania, the company appealed
from the auditor general's settlement to the Court of Common
Pleas of Dauphin CountV, in that State. The case was tried
in that court without th6 intervention of a jury, under an act
of the state legislature approved April, 22. 1874, a-d the court
made the following findings of fact
"1. The defendant is a railroad corporation existing under
the laws of the States of Virginia and West Virginia, and its
main line and branches lie wholly within these States.
"2. Its line of railroad connects at several points with the
railroads of other corporations, and, by virtue of these connections, and certain traffic contracts and agreements, it has become a link in a through line of road, over which, as a part of
the business thereof, freight and passengers are carried into
and out of this Commonwealth.
"3. Its authorized capital stock is twenty-five millions of
dollars.
"4. From July 1, 1883, to July 1, 1885, it had an office in
this Commonwealth for the use of its officers, stockholders,
agents and employes. Its main office is at Roanoke, Virginia.
"5. During this period it expended a considerable amount
of money in Pennsylvania in the purchase of materials and
supplies for the use of its road, but, with trifling exceptions.
it owns no property and has no capital invested for corporate
purposes within this Commonwealth.
"-6. It has paid no office license fee for the years named,
as required by section sxteen of the act of 1879 (P L. 120).
Upon this section these settlements are based."
Judgment was rendered against the company on that finding, sustaining the settlement made by the auditor general of
the State, for the sum of $7503.12. That judgment having
been affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, this writ of
error was sued out. The assignment of errors is to the effect
that the court below erred in refusing to sustain the following

NORFOLK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. PENN.
Opinion of the Court.

points, urged by the company, both in the trial court and in
the Supreme Court of the State, viz.
"(1) Inasmuch as the sixteenth section of the act of June 7,.
1879, denies to foreign corporations and to the officers, agents
and employes of foreign corporations the right to have an
office or place of meeting in the State of Pennsylvania, the
said section is in conflict with clause one of. section two of
article IV of the Constitution of the United States, which provides that I'the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges
of. citizens in the several States.'
"(2) The sixteenth section of the act of June 7, 1879, is an,
abridgment of the privileges and immunities of the citizens of
the United States, it discriminates between corporations of
the State of Pennsylvania and corporations of other States, it
discriminates between corporations and natural persons having
offices in Pennsylvania, it discriminates between foreign corporations, it denies to foreign corporations and to natural
persons connected with such corporations, particularly this
defendant and its officers, agents and employes, who were in
the State maintaining an, office and doing business at and
before the passage of the said act, the equal protection of the
laws, and is for these reasons void, because in conflict with
article XIV of the amendments to the "Constitution of the
United States, and also because in conflict with the act ofCongress - Revised Statutes, section 1977.
"(3) Inasmuch as the Norfolk and Western Railroad
Company engaged in the business of transporting freight and
passengers to or from other States out of or into the State of
Pennsylvania, or from other, States to other States, passing
through the State of Pennsylvania,, and for the successful
carrying on ofisaid interstate business it is necessary for the
said company to maintain one or more offices in the State of
Pennsylvania, therefore the sixteenth section of the act of
June 7, 1879, if it requires that the said company cannot lawfully maintain an office in said State without first obtaining
from the.auditor general thereof a- license so to do, and paying
the fee prescribed by said section for said license, then the said
section is unconstitutional and void, because in conflict with

OCTOBER TERM,' 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

clause three of section eight of article I of the Constitution of
the United States, which provides that- 'Congress shall have
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States.'"
The first two points are disposed of adversely to the company by the decision of this court in Pembmna AXinng Co. v
Pennsylvansa,125 U S.181. In that case we held, following
Paulv Tirgsnsa, 8 Wall. 168, that corporations are not citizens within the meaning of clause 1, sec. 2, of art. IV of the
Constitution of the United States declaring that "the citizens
of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States." And we also held that
section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
declaring that no State shall "deny to any person within its.
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws" does not prohibit a State from imposing such conditions upon foreign corporations as it may choose, as a condition of their admission
within its limits. See, also, PhiladelphaFire Assoczatron, v
NTew York, 119 U S.110.
The only question for consideration, therefore, arises under
the third assignment of error, above set forth. It is well
settled by numerous decisions of this court, that a State
cannot, under the guise of a license tax, exclude from its jurisdiction a foreign corporation engaged in interstate commerce,
or impose any burdens upon such commerce within its limits.
Some of the cases sustaining this proposition are collected in
.XcCall v. Californsa,just decided, ante, 104, and need not be
repeated here.
The question before us is thus narrowed to the two following
inquiries. (1) Was the business of this company in the State
of Pennsylvania interstate commerce 2 (2) If so, was the tax
assessed against it for keeping an office in Philadelphia, for
the use of its officers, stockholders, agents and employes, a tax
upon such -business? We have no difficulty in answering the
first of these inquiries in the affirmative. Although the findings of fact are somewhat meagre on this question -much
more so, indeed, than the undisputed evidence in the case warranted-enough is stated in the second paragraph of the

NORFOLK &c. RAILROAD C0. v. PENN.
Opinion of the Court.

aforesaid finding to show that the company is engaged in interstate commerce in the State. It,is ,there said, in substance:
By virtue of its connections and certain traffic contracts with
other railroads the Norfolk and Western Railroad Company
"has become a link in a through line of road, over which, as
part of the business thereof, freight and passengers are carried
into and out of this Commonwealth." That is to say, the
business of, the, through line of railroad, of which the, plaintiff
in error forms a part or in which it ,is
a link, consists, in a
measure, of carrying passengers and freight into Pennsylvania
from other States, and out of that State into other States.
It certainly requires no citation of authorities to demonstrate
that such business -that is, the business of this through line
of railroad -is interstate commerce. That being true, it logically follows that any one of the roads forming a part of, or
constituting a link in, that through line, is engaged in, interstate commerce, since the business of each one of those roads
serves to increase the volume of businessdone by that through
line.
On this point The Dansel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 565, is an
authority, In that case the steamer Daniel Ballwas engaged
in transporting goods on Grand River, wholly within the State
of Michigan, destined for other States, and-goods brought from
other States destined for places in the State of Michigan, but
did not run-inconnection with, or in, continuation of, any line
of vessels or railway leading to other States, and the contention was, that she was not engaged, in interstate commerce.
But this court held otherwise and said "So far as she was
employed in transporting goods destined for other States, or
goods brought from without the limits of M[ichigan and destined to,places within that State, she was engaged in commerce
between the States, and however limited that commerce may
have,, been, she, was,, so, far as it went,, subject to the legislation
of Congress. She was employed ,as an instrument of that
commerce, for whenever a commodity has begun to move as
an article of trade from one State to another, commerce in
that commodity between the States has,commenced. The fact
that several different and independent agencies are employed

OCTOBER TEIM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in transporting the commodity, some acting entirely in one
State, and some acting through two or more States, does in
no respect affect the character of the transaction. To the
extent in which each agency acts in that transportation, it is
subject to the regulation of. Congress." See, also, lWabash &c.
Railway Co. v lllino8, 118 U. S. 557, and cases cited.
We pass to the second inquiry above stated, viz. Was the
tax assessed against the company for keeping an office in
Philadelphia, for the use of its officers, stockholders, agents
and employes, a tax upon the business of the company 2 In
other words, was such tax a tax upon any of the means or
7,nstruments by which the company was enabled to carry on its
We have no hesitancy in
business of interstate commerce
answering -that question in the affirmative. What was the
purpose of the company in establishing an office in the city of
Philadelphia 2 lvanifestlv for the furtherance of its business
interests in the matter of its commercial relations. One of the
terms of the contract by which the plaintiff in error became a
link in the through line of road referred to in the findings of
fact, provided that "it shall be the duty of each initial road,
member of the line, to solicit and procure traffic for the Great
Southern Despatch (tho name of said through line) at its own
proper cost and expense." Again, the plaintiff in error does
not exercise, or seek to exercise, in Pennsylvania any privilege
or franchise not immediately connected with interstate commerce and required for the purposes thereof. Before establishing its office in Philadelphia it obtained from the secretary of
the Commonwealth the certificate required by the act of the
state legislature of 1874 enabling it to maintain an office in
the State. That office was maintained because of the necessities of the interstate business of the company, and for no other
purpose. A tax upon it was, therefore, a tax upon one of the
means or instrumentalities of the company's interstate commerce, and as such was in violation of the commercial clause
of the Constitution of the United States. Gloucester Ferry
Co. v Pennsylvansa, 114 U. S.196, Philadelphia Steanohip
Co. v Pennsylvansa, 122 U. S.326, and cases cited, McGall
v. California,just decided ante, 104.

HOT SPRINGS RAILROAD CO. v. 'WILLIAMSON.

121

Opinion of the Court.

For the foregozng reasons the judgment of the court below w
reversed, and the case w remandedto that courtforfurther
_proceedings M Conformity With thA-s opmion.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE GAY and MR.
JusTICE BRE wER dissented.

HOT SPRIINGS RATLROAD COMPANY v. WILLIAMI
SON'.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSA$.
No. 93.

Submitted November 11, 1889.- Decided May 19, 1890.

The refusal of the court below to grant the defendant's request to charge
upon a question in relation to which the plaintiff had introduced no
evidence, and whichwas, therefore, an abstract question, not before the
court, was not error.
When a state constitution provides that "private property shall not be taken,
appropriated or damaged for public use without just compensation" a
railroad company constructing its road in a public street, under a sufficient grant from the legislature or municipality, is nevertheless liable to
abutting owners of land for consequential injuries to their property
resulting- from such construction.

THE -case is stated in the opinion.
Mr John -X. .Moore for plaintiff in error.
Mr A. H. Garlandfor defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

LAxR delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of
Garland County, Arkansas, at its February term, 1883, by
Curnel S. Williamson and Fannie G. Williamson, his wife,
against the Hot Springs Railroad Company, a corporation
organized -under the laws of that State, to recover damages

