CHICAGO UNION BANK v. KANSAS CITY BANK.

223

Statement of the Case

UNION BANK OF CHICAGO v. KANSAS CITY BANK
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN 'DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No.13. Argued October 16, 17, 1889. -Decided

May 19, 1890.

Upon appeal from a decree in equity of the Circuit Court of the United
States, accompanied by a certificate of division in opinion between
two judges before whom the hearing was had, in a case in which the
amount in dispute is insufficient to give this court jurisdiction, its jurisdiction is confined to answering the questions of law certified.
Upon the question of the construction and effect-of a statute of a State,
regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors, the decisions of the
highest court of the State are of controlling authority in the courts of
the United States.
Section 354 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879, concerning voluntary assignments for the benefit of creditors, does not invalidate a deed
of trust, in the nature of a mortgage, by an insolvent debtor, of all his
personal property, to secure the payment of preferred debts, reserving a
right of redemption.
By the law of Missouri, one partner has power to bind his copartners by a
mortgage of all the personal property of the partnership to secure the
payment of particular debts of the partnership.
A receiver derives his authority from the act of the court, and not from the
act of the parties, and the effect of his appointment is to put the property from that time into his custody as an officer of tIhe court, for the
benefit of the party ultimately proved to be entitled, but not to change
the title, or even the right of possession.
By the law of Missouri, a mortgage by one partner of the personal property
of an insolvent partnership, to secure the payment of particular debts
of the partnership, is valid, and does not operate as a Aluntary assignment for the benefit of, all its creditors under § 354 of tue Revised Statutes of 1879 - although another partner does not assent to the mortgage,
and has previously authorized the making of a voluntary assignment
under the statute; and although the partner making the mortgage pro.
cures a simultaneous appointment of a receiver of all the partnership
property.

Tnis was a petition, in the nature of a bill in equity, filed in
a court of the State of Missouri by citizens and corporations.
of other States, judgment creditors (each of them in the sum.
of less than $2500) in behalf. of all the creditors of James

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

B. Melone, of Macon in the State of Missouri, Richard A.
Melone and Charles H. Benedict, of Kansas City in that
State, and all three citizens of Missouri, and doing business dt
Kansas City as partners, under the name of Benedict, IMelone
& Co., against those three partners, three banking corporations of Missouri, and Charles Stewart, likewise a citizen of
Missouri.
The bill alleged that on February 16, 1882, Richard A. Melone, in behalf of the partnership, executed a deed of trust, a
copy of which was annexed to the bill, purporting to be by
and between the partnership of the first part, Stewart of the
second part, and the three banks of the third part, and to convey to Stewart the personal property and choses in action of
the partnership, provided that if the partnership should pay
certain specified debts which it owed to each of the banks,
"then these presents and everything herein shall cease and
be void, but if they, the said Benedict, Melone & Co., shall
fail or make default in the payment of such indebtedness to
said three above-mentioned banks, or any part thereof, when
the same shall have become past due and payable for five
days, then it shall be lawful for said party of the second part
to sell said property in any manner he shall think fit, and out
of the proceeds arising from said sale pay off said indebtedness or so much thereof as shall be unpaid, together with the
costs and expenses of said sale, and the overplus, if any there
be, shall be paid to said parties of the first part. Said party
of the second part shall take immediate possession of said
property"
The bill further alleged that this deed included all the
partnership property; that the partnership and each partner were then, as all the defendants well knew, hopelessly
insolvent, that on the same day, and simultaneously with the
execution of this deed, Benedict, upon a suit commenced by
him in a court of Missouri to wind up the partnership, procured the appointment of Stewart as receiver of its property
and he immediately qualified and entered upon his duties as
such, that James B. Ivielone had previously authorized his
copartners to make a general assignment for the benefit of all

CHICAGO UNION BANK v. KANSAS CITY BANK.

225

Statement of the Case.

the partnership creditors without any preferences, and never
authorized or approved the deed of trust; that the action of
the two other partners in executing that deed to Stewart and
having him appointed receiver was a fraudulent attempt on
their part to evade the statute of Missouri concerning voluntary assignments, that by reason of.the premises, and of that
statute, the deed of trust operated as a voluntary assignment
of all the property of the partnership for the benefit of all its
creditors, that all the partnership property was delivered to
Stewart and taken possession of by him under the deed. of
trust, that out of the property Stewart had realized the sum of
$58,000, enough to pay all the creditors of the partnership
about sixty per cent of their debts if the preferences in the
deed of trust should be set aside, but that Stewart, instead of
performing the duties required of him by the aforesaid statute
of Missouri, had treated the deed of trust as a valid mortgage,
and had paid the debts of the banks in .full, amounting to
about $19,000, and was proceeding to distribute as receiver the
rest of the trust fund in his hands.
The bill prayed that the deed of trust might be declared to
be -a general assignment for the benefit of all the creditors of
the partnership in proportion to their respective claims, that
Stewart be ordered to make distribution accordingly, and
that the banks be ordered to pay the sums received by them
into the registry of the court.
Stewart and the three banks demurred to the petition, and
before further proceedings in the cause, it was removed, on
application of the plaintiffs, into the Circuit Court of the
United States, and that court, upon a hearing on bill, answers, replication and proofs, before Mr. Justice Miller and
Judge Krekel, ordered the bill to be dismissed, and they certified a division of opinion on the following questions
"1. Is the instrument of writng in this case, called a deed
of trust, which we find, as a matter of fact, conveys all the
partnership property of Benedict, Melone & Co. to Charles
Stewart as trustee, as security for the, banks therein named,
void for want of the assent of James B. Melone, one of the
partners, which was never given to that transfer?
VOL. CxXxVI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

"2. As James 3. Melone did give his previous assent and
directions to the making of an assignment for the benefit of
creditors, does the deed of trust above mentioned operate
as a general assignment for the benefit of all the creditors of
the partnership under section 354 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri of 1879.
"3. Does the making of that deed of trust and appointment
of -a receiver, who is the same person as the trustee, on the
same day, and as part of the proceeding to administer the
assets of the insolvent partnership, to which the banks and
Stewart and the partners in the firm of Benedict, Melone &
Co. agreed, constitute a general assignment for the benefit of
all the creditors, and require the receiver to administer the
funds in his hands in that manner? "
A final decree was entered for the defendants, in accordance with the opinion of the presiding justice, and the
plaintiffs appealed to this court.
21r S. C. Douglass (with whom was .Mr C. I. Dobson on
the brief) for appellants.
I. Treating the instrument as a deed of trust with prefer
ences, it is not properly executed to make it the act of the
firm, having been made without the assent of one of its members, and the preferences therein attempted to be created are
void and should be set aside.
The authorities are unanimous in holding that, by the act
of co-partnership, the implied power of a partner over the
partnership assets is limited to transactions within its business
scope and objects, and they are, practically, as unanimous in
holding that this implied authority is personal to the partner
and cannot be delegated to another person without the assent
of the other partners, and that neither party is authorized,
by virtue of the partnership relation, to appoint a trustee and
interpose him between the partnership, its property and creditors, thereby, ?ipso facto, dissolving the partnership, and plac
mig its property in the hands of third persons for sale and
disposition. Transfers, made in conducting the business of the

CHICAGO UNION BANK v. KANSAS CITY BANK.

227

Argument for Appellants.

firm, are in exercise of a power to preserve, while such as
mean dissolution are in the exercise of a power to destroy,
and, to validate them, a special authorization must be shown.
llitchcook v St. John, 1 Hoffman Ch. 511, Wetter' v Sleeper, 15 How Pr. 268, Dana v Lull, 17 Vermont, 390,
.Rogersv Batchelor, 12 Pet. 221, Welles v .Maroh, 30 N. Y
344, Palmer v. -Myers, 43 Barb. 509, .Demrng v Colt, 3
Sandf. (N. Y.) 284, Hayes v Heyer, 3 Sandf. (N. Y) 293,
Coope v Bowles, 18 Abb. Pr. 442, Bowen v Clark, 1 Bissell,
128, Pearpo'nt v. Graham, 4 Wash. C. C. 232, Holland v
Drake, 29 Ohio St. 441, Bull v Harrsson, 18 B. Mon. 195,
Kirby v Ingersoll, Harrington Ch. (Mich.) 172, Yaughlin v
Tyler, 47 Maryland, 545, Stern v La Dow, 13 Minnesota, 412,
Danklin v. Kimball, 50 Alabama, 251, Pettee v Orser, '6
Bosworth, (N. Y.,) 123, Loeb v Pertyoznt, 58 Iowa, 469,
Ravens v liussey, 5 Paige, 30, Ormsbee v Davs, 5 R. I.
442, Wooldrzdge v Irving, 23 Fed. Rep. 676, Nat. Bk. of
Baltimore v Sackett, 2 Daly, (N. Y.,) 395, Loeschligk v Hatfield, 5 Robertson, (N. Y.,), 26, Kemp v. Carnley, 3 Duer,
(N.Y.,) 1, Haggerty v Granger,15 low Pr. 243, Everson v.
Gehrman, 10 How Pr. 301, Hughes v Ellison, 5 Missouri,
463, Drake v Rogers, 6 Missouri, 317, Clark v .R'ves, 33
Missouri, 579, Hook v Stone, 34 Missouri, 329, Eeck v.
Fisher, 58 Missouri, 532.
II. Treating the instrument as a deed of general assignment,
it is properly executed to make it the firm act, inasmuch as the
two resident partners participated in the .transfer, and the absent one directed the assignment to be made, and ratified, the
transfer only as such assignment.
Section 354, Rev Statutes of Mo. of 1879, Vol. I page 54,
is as follows "Every voluntary assignment of lands, tenements, goods, chattels, effects and credits, made by a debtor to
any person in trust for his creditors, shall be for the benefit
of all the creditors of the assignor in proportion to their
respective claims, and every such assignment shall be proved
or acknowledged, and certified and 'recorded in the same
manner as is prescribed by law in cases wherein real estate
This term "voluntary" is applied to assignis conveyed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

ments to distinguish them from such as are made by the compulsion of the law, as under statutes of bankruptcy and insolvency, or by order of some competent court. Manny v .ogan,
27 Missouri, 528.
"Voluntary assignments for the benefit of creditors are
transfers, without compulsion of laws, by debtors of some or
all of their property, to an assignee or assignees in trust, to
apply the same, or the proceeds thereof, to the payment of some
or all of their debts, and to return the surplus, if any, to the
debtor." Burrill on Assignments, 4th ed. § 2.
When a debtor has made a general disposition of all his
property and effects, and suspended his whole business in consequence thereof, thereby declaring insolvency, his act in so
doing constitutes a voluntary assignment under the Missouri
statute, and it is immaterial whether that act be effectuated
by one or more instruments, provided they are parts of one
and the same transaction, in and by which the debtor so disposes of his property The assignment statute is remedial in
its nature and intended to prevent preferences, as the statute
of fraudulent conveyances is aimed at frauds, and both must
be liberally construed, in the very nature of things, in order
to accomplish the purposes for which they were enacted.
The courts look beyond the mere form of instruments, and,
with the aid of parol proof, construe them according to their
real meaning and effect. i£artin v Iausman, 14 Fed. Rep.
160, Jfellogg v ]?wkardson, 19 Fed. Rep. 70, Clapp v Dattman, 21 Fed. Rep. 15, Perry v Corby, 21 Fed. Rep. 737,
KeArbs v E Z2g, 22 Fed. Rep. 693, Clapp v iVordmeyer, 25
Fed. Rep. 71 , Freund v Y-aegerman, 26 Fed. Rep. 812, State
ex rel. Ffeldkamp v Mlorse, 27 Fed. Rep. 262, Weil v Polack,
30 Fed. Rep. 813, Crow v Beardsley, 68 Missouri, 435, State
v Benotst, 37 Missouri, 500, Sexton v Anderson, 95 M[issouri,
373, Berry v Cutts, 42 Maine, 445, ]Downzng v Einzzng,
2 S. & R. 326 ;'l-olt v Bancroft, 30 Alabama, 193, Lbvermore
v. ilcNatr,34 iN. J Eq. 478, Watson v Bagaley, 12 Penn.
St. 164,
. C. 51 Am. Dec. 595, Miners' Natiwnal Bank's
Appeal, 57 Penn. St. 193, Burrows v L-ehndorf, 8 Iowa, 96,
Cole v Dealham, 13 Iowa, 551, Van Patten v Butrr,52 Iowa,

CHICAGO UNION BANK v. KANSAS CITY BANK. 229
Opimon of the Court.

018, llarkraderv. Leuly, 4 Ohio St. 602, Ditckson v. Rawson,
5 Olio St. 218, Englebert v. Blanyot, 2 Wharton, 240; :Mumsey
v. NAroyes, 26 Vermont, 462, Thompson v Hefner, 11 Bush,
353, Perry v Holden, 22 Pick. 269.
Afr Henry H. Es and
r 0
. Dean (with whom were
-M4- William Warner and -Hr James Hagerman on the .brief)
for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The claim of each plaintiff being for less than $5000, and
the amount in dispute, therefore, insufficient to give this court
jurisdiction of the whole case, our jurisdiction is confined to.
answering the questions of law presented by the certificate of
division of- opinion between the judges before whom the case
was heard in the Circuit Court. Rev Stat. § 650, 652, 6 9 9,
Act of February 16, 1875, c. 77, § 3, .18 Stat. 316, .Dow v
Johnson, 100 U. S. 158, United States v. Ambrose, 108 U. S'
336, Jewell v RinZght, 123 U. S. 426.
The determination of these questions is governed by the law
of Missouri, where the deed of trust was made, and the parties
to it .resided. In ascertaining the construction and effect of
section 354 of the Revised Statutes of the State of 1879, which
is supposed to affect the case, it is important to bear in mind
the law of Missouri as it existed before those statutes were
enacted.
The Supreme Court of Missouri in 1852, speaking by -Mr.
Justice Gamble, said "It is not necessary to quote books for
the purpose of showing that a debtor in failing circumstances
may give a preference to one or more of his creditors to the
exclusion of others, and that such disposition of his effects is
not impeachable on the ground of fraud, because it embraces
all his property;" and accordingly upheld assignments by insolvent debtors of all their property to'pay particular creditors.
Cason v furray, 15 Missouri, 378,-381, Rwhards v. Lemn,
16 Missouri, 596, 599.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It was also well settled by the decisions of that court, that
each partner, by virtue of the relation of partnership, and of
the community of right and interest of the partners, had full
power and authority to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of all
personal property belonging to the partnership, for any purpose within the scope of the parynership business, and might
therefore, without the concurrence of his copartners, mortgage
the partnership property by deed of trust, to secure the payment of a partnership debt, Clark v R'ves, 33 Missouri, 579;
.Heckv Fisher, 58 Missouri, 532, although one partner, without the concurrence of his copartners, could not delegate
to a stranger the right of the partnership to administer the
partnership effects, and therefore could not make a general assignment of all the property of the partnership for distribution by the assignee among the partnership creditors,
retaining no equity of redemption in the partnership. JHughes
v Ellison, 5 Missouri, 463, Hook v. Stone, 34 Missouri, 329.
The statutes of Missouri restricting voluntary assignments
have always been construed rather strictly by the Supreme
Court of the State.
By the earliest statute upon the subject, "in all cases in
which any person shall make a voluntary assignment of his
lands, tenements, goods, chattels, effects and credits, or any
part thereof, to any person, in trust for his creditors ,or any
of them, it shall be the duty of the assignee" to file an inventory of the assigned property in the office of the clerk of the
Circuit Court of the county in which the assignee resides.
Missouri Rev Stat. of 1845, c. 10, § 1, reenacting Act of
February 15, 1841, § 1, Missouri Laws of 1840-41, p. 13.
In the Revised Statutes of 1855, c. 8, § 1, that section was
regnacted, and at the end of the chapter this section was
added "§ 39. Every provision in any assignment, hereafter
made in this State, providing for the payment of one debt or
liability in preference to another, shall be void, and all debts
and liabilities, within the provisions of the assignment, shall
be paid pro rata from the assets thereof."
The Supreme Court of Missouri repeatedly and uniformly
held that, taking those two sections together, § 39 only pro-

CHICAGO UNION. BANK v. KANSAS CITY BANK. 231
Opinion of the Court.

hibited preferences among the creditors designated in an assignment, either of the whole or of part of the debtor's property, but did not invalidate partial assignments for the benefit of some of the creditors of the assignor, and was so far
inefficient to prevent preferences among creditors, and the
court observed. "If ,the legislature wish to strike at the root
of the evil, they must go back to an old principle of the common law, which permits a debtor to prefer one creditor to
another, and which privilege can be effected in a variety of
modes other than those referred to in our statutes concerning
assignments." Shavlezg v. Bazrd, 26 Missouri, 322, 326,
Johnson v. McAllister, 30 Missouri, 327, Many v Logan,
31 Missouri, 91, State v Benotst, 37 Missouri, 500, 516.
An act of February 13, 1864, repealed § 39 of the act of
1S55, and enacted that "every assignment hereafter made in
this, State," under the provisions of the act of 1855, "shall be
for the benefit of all creditors who shall present and prove
up their claims under the provisions of said act, and all debts
and ]iabilities so proved and allowed shall be paid _ro rata
from the assets thereof." Act of February 13, 1864, §§ 8, 9,
Missouri Laws of 1863-64-, p. 6.
In 1865 this provision was reenacted in this form "Every
voluntary assignment of lands, tenements, goods, chattels,
effects and credits made by a debtor to any person in trust for
his creditors shall .be for the benefit of all the creditors of the
assignor, in proportion to their respective claims." Gen. Stat.
of 1865,.c. 112, § 1, 1 Wagner's Stat. (3d ed.) 150.
In 1878 the construction and effect of this provision were
drawn'in judgment before the Supreme Court of Missouri in
Crow v Beardsley, 68 Missouri, 435, where a debtor had conveyed his-stock of merchandise by a deed of trust, in no respect
differing from the one now before us, to secure the paymenit
of certain of his creditors. It was contended that the provision of the statute, just quoted, avoided all conveyances of
property which gave a preference among creditors. But it
was held that.while that provision had a wider scope than § 39
of the act of 1855, and was designed to prevent any preference
of creditors I-by assignment," yet it 'did not avoid deeds of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

trust, in the nature of mortgages, which were only securities
for. the payment of debts. The court clearly pointed out the
distinction between assignments and deeds of trust in the
nature of mortgages, saying "An assignment is more than a
security for the payment of debts, it is an absolute appropriation of property to their payment." "The distinction is that
an assignment is a conveyance to a trustee for the purpose of
raising funds to pay a debt, while a deed of trust in the nature
of a mortgage is a conveyance in trust for the purpose of securing a debt, subject to a condition of defeasance. The deed in
question here is, therefore, a deed of trust in the. nature of a
mortgage." 68 Missouri, 437, 438. Upon these reasons it was
adjudged that the deed was not within the statute concerning
assignments, and could not be avoided by a creditor not named
in it, except for fraud.
The section there construed was afterwards refnacted, in
the same words, in § 354 of the Revised Statutes of 1879,
which were the statutes in force when the deed of trust in this
case was made.
The only embarrassment in the present case has been occasioned by the course of decision in the Circuit Court of the
United States within the State of LMissouri, originating in a
case decided in 1882 by an opinion of Judge 1Krekel with the
concurrence of Judge McCrary -Martinv .Hausman,14 Fed.
Rep. 160.
In that case, the debtors assigned and transferred their
whole stock in trade by a deed which declared that ;it was
made to secure certain debts therein mentioned, but- directed
the assignee to proceed at once to sell the property, and out
of the proceeds to pay the- debts as they matured, and provided that after they had been fully paid "this deed shall be
released," and reserved no right of redemption to the aslgnors. Upon a review of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Missouri, and especially ShaplezgL v. Baird, State v Benotst
and Crow v Beardsley, above cited, it was held that, as the
deed did not purport to be a security for a debt, leaving an
equity of redemption in the grantors, and empowering the
trustee to sell only if the debts specified should not be paid

CHICAGO UNION BANK v. KANSAS CITY BANK.

233

Opinion of the Court.

at maturity, but conveyed the property absolutely to the trustee, to be sold for the payment of the debts named avdpreferred in it, it was not a mortgage security, but an assignment for the benefit of creditors, and Judge Irekel, laid
down this general rule "A debtor in Missouri, under its
legislation and adjudications thereon, nay, though he be
insolvent at the time, prefer- one or more of his creditors by
securing them 5 but he cannot do it by an instrument conveying the whole of his property to pay ohe or more creditors.
Instruments of the latter class will be, construed as falling
.within the assignment laws, and as for the benefit of all
creditors, whether named in the assignment or not." 14 Fed.
'Rep. 166.
The rule thus laid down has since been followed by the
same and other judges in the Federal courts within the, State
of Missouri,. and has been extended (in disregard of the adjudication of the -Supreme Court of the State in Crow v Beardsley) -so as to hold a deed of trust, m the nature of a mortgage,
of all the personal property of the debtor, to be a voluntary
assignment, within the meanng and effect of the Missouri
statute. Dahlman, v Jacobs, 16 Fed., Rep. 614 , .ellog v
?ichardson, 19 Fed. Rep. 70, Clap v. DOittnan, 21 Fed.
Rep. 15, Perry v Corby, 21,Fed. IRep. 737, K-erbs v Ewzng,
22 Fed. Rep. 697, Freund v Yaegerman, 26 Fed. Rep. 812,
and 27 Fed. Rep. 248, State v. Norse, 27 Fed. Rep. 261.
That rule, as thus construed and applied, has not, however,
.alwavs been approved in the Circuit Court. In aapp v. .Dittman, above cited,. Mr. Justice Brewer, then Circuit Judge,
confessed .that, if it were a new question, his own conclusion
would. be differpnt, and in harmony with the decisions in
N ational"Bank v Sp7rague, 3 C. E. Green, 13, 28, _Farwellv
Howard, 26 Iowa, 381, .Doremus v O'flara,1 Ohio St. 45,
Atkensar v Tomlinson, 1 Ohio St. 237, and other cases., and
declared that he should follow the. rule, as having been established by the course of the decisions in the courts of thd
United States within the State of Missouri, uitil.there should
be some authoritative construction of the statute-by the Supreme Court-of the United States, gr by the Supreme Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of the State. 21 Fed. Rep. i.
bee also Perry v Corby,
21 Fed. Rep. 737, Freund v Yaegerman, 27 Fed. Rep. 248,
Elgmn Co. v ilf2eyer, 30 Fed. Rep. 659, Weil v Polack, 30 Fed.
Rep. 813.
The decision in Crow v Beardsley has always been
treated in all the courts of the State as settling the law of
Missouri upon the subject. It has been followed by the St.
Louis Court of Appeals in H-olt v Simmons, 16 Mo. App. 97,
and by the Kansas City Court of Appeals in Sampson v Shaw,
19 Mo. App. 274, and in Smth. & 1iKeatng Co. v Thurman,
29 Mo. App. 186, and it has been approved and acted on by
the Supreme Court of Missouri in a very recent case, in which
the court, after repeating and enforcing the reasoning upon
which Crow v Beardsleyproceeded, said. "The assignment law
of Missouri is not, in letter or spirit, a bankrupt or insolvent
debtor's act. A debtor, whether solvent or insolvent, may,
in good faith, sell, deliver in payment, mortgage or pledge
the whole or any part of his property for the benefit of one or
more of his creditors, to the exclusion of others, even though
such transfer may have the effect of delaying them in the collection of their debts. Its terms in no way qualify the rule by
which the character of this instrument is to be determined.
Reading the instrument then as a whole, in the light of the
circumstances under which it was executed, was it intended
as a security, or as an absolute unconditional conveyance, qn
prmesent, to the grantee of all the grantor's interest in the
property, both legal and equitable, to the exclusion of any
equitable right of redemption.?" And it was accordingly
adjudged that the assignment law was inapplicable to a deed
of trust, conveying all the debtor's property, real and personal, (except his homestead and household furniture, and
a horse and buggy,) to a trustee in trust "to secure the payment of part of his debts for which he was liable either as
principal or as surety, which appeared to the court, upon a
view of all its provisions as applied to the facts of the case,
to be "not an absolute indefeasible assignment of all the
grantor's title, both legal and equitable, in the property 'in
trust for his creditors,' but a deed of trust to secure the pay-

CHICAGO UNION BANK v. KANSAS CITY BANK.

235

Opinion of the Court.

ment of debts and other liabilities, in which the grantor has
an interest in the property conveyed," for the protection
of which "equity gives him a right of redemption,- though
no clause of defeasance was anserted in the deed." Eargadine v .J-enderson, 97 Missouri, 375, 386, 387, 389.
The question of the construction and effect of a statute of a
State, regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors, is a
question upon whtch the decisions of the highest. court of the
State, establishing a rule of property, are of controlling authority in the courts of the United States. Brashearv. West,
-7 Pet. 608, 615, Allen v. fassey, 17 Wall. 351, Lloyd v
Fulton, 91 U S. 479, 485, Sumner v Hicks, 2 Black, 532,
534, Jafray v .McGehee, 107 U. S.361, 365, Peters v. Basn,
133"U. S. 670, 686 , 1ando ph's&.ixecutor v Qusdnck Co., 135
U. S.457. The' decision in White v. Cotzhausen, 129. U. S.
329, construing a similar statute of Illinois in accordance with
the decisions of the Supreme Court of that State as understood
by this court, has therefore no bearing upon the case at bar.
The fact that similar statutes are allowed different effects in
different States is immaterial. As observed by Mr. Justice
Field, speaking for this court, "The interpretation within the
jurisdiction of one State becomes a part of the law of that
State,. as much so as if incorporated into the body of it by the
legislature. If, therefore, different interpretations are given in
different States to a similar local law, that law in effect becomes by the interpretations, so far as it is a rule for our
action, a different law in one State from what it is in the
other." Chrsty v Pruzgeon, 4 Wall. 196, 203. See also
]Detrost v Osborne, 135 U. S.492.
In the present case, there can be no doubt that the deed of
'trust, conveying the personal property of the partnership to
secure the payment of its debts therein named, and reserving
in the clearest terms a right of redemption to the grantors, by
providing that if they shall pay those debts the deed shall be
void, as well as by authorizing the trustee to sell the property
only in case of their failing to pay those debts or any part
thereof for five days after they become .payable, was, according to the settled course of, decision An the courts of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of Missouri, a mortgage -only, and not an assignment under
the statute relied on, and therefore, according to the decisions in Missouri, cited at the beginning of this opinion, (no
fraud being proved or suggested,) an instrument which one
partner had the inherent authority to bind the partnership by,
although his copartners did not join in it.
The deed of trust, executed by. and with the consent of
two of the three partners, being a valid mortgage, and not an
assignment, within the meaning of the statute, the fact that
the third partner had authorized his copartners to execute an
assignment, which was never executed, cannot affect the validity or the operation of the deed of trust.
Nor did the simultaneous appointment of a receiver of the
partnership property at the suit of one of the partners alter
the nature of the deed of trust, or transform it into a voluntaxry assignment, within the meaning of the statute of Missouri, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State. A
receiver derives his authority from the act of the court
appointing him, and jnot from the act of the parties at whose
suggestion or by whose consent he is appointed, and the
utmost effect of his appointment is to put the property from
that time into his custody as an officer of the court, for the
benefit of the party ultimately proved to be entitled, but not
to change the title, or even the right of possession, in the
property Sk p v Iarwood, 3 Atk. 564, Anon. 2 Atk. 15,
lViswall v Sampson, 14: How 52, 65, Ellis v Boston, Hartford & Ere Railroad, 107 M ass. 1, 28, Maynard v. Bond,

67 Missouri, 315, Herman v Fisoer,11 Mo. App. 275, 281.
And in the present case, the three banks have claimed and
received payment of the full amount of their debts from
Stewart as trustee under the mortgage, and not as receiver
under the appointment of the court.

The necessary conclusion is, that each of the questions
certified must be answered in the negative, and that the
decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill must be
-Affirmed.

SMITH PURIFIER CO; v. M GROARTY.
Statement of the Case.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, having been of counsel,.and MiR. JusoiE
BREWER, not having been a member of the court when the
case was argued, took no part in its consideration or decision.

SMITH MIDDLINGS PURIFIER COMPANY v.
McGROARTY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 28. Argued April 15, 16, 1889.-Decided May 19,1890.
An appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, dismissing a bill filed by creditors to set aside a mortgage by their debtor,
is within the 3urlsdiction of this court as to those creditors only whose
debts severally exceed $5000.
The filing of a voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditQrs, and of the
assignee's bond, in a probate court, under the statutes of Ohio, does not
prevent a creditor, who is a citizen of another State, and has not become
a party to the proceedings in the state court, from suing in equity in the
Circuit Court of.the United States to set aside a mortgage made by the
debtor contemporaneously with.the assignment.
In Ohio, a mortgage by an insolvent trading corporation to prefer some of
its creditors, having.been held by the Supreme Court of the State to be
invalid, under its constitution and laws, against general creditors such
a mortgage must be hel invalid in the courts of the United States.

THIS was a bill in equity, fied November 4, ,1885, by a corporation of Michigan against the Simpson and- Gault Manufacturing Company, a corporation of Ohio, Sayler, a citizen
of Ohio and assignee of that company, under the laws of Ohio,
McGroarty, Simpson, Gault and Fitch, also citizens of Ohio,
and Charles, a citizen of New York.
The bill alleged that the defendant company, on May 25,
1885, by a deed of assignment filed in the probate court of
Hamilton County in the State of Ohio, granted and assigned
all its property, real and personal, to Sayler, in trust'to sell
and dispose 6f it, and to apply the proceeds, after paying the

