OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

RICHELIEU AND ONTARIO NAVIGATION COMPANY v. BOSTON MARINE INiSURANCE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 296. Argued April 25, 1890. -Decided

FOR THE

May 19, 1890.

Where a policy of marine insurance excepts losses and perils occasioned by
want of ordinary care and skill in navigation, or by want of seaworthiness, and a statute of the country to which the insured vessel belongs
requires all vessels to go at a moderate speed in a fog, and the insured
vessel, having a defective compass, is stranded while going at full speed
in a fog, and a loss ensues, the burden of proof is on the insured to show
that neither the speed at which the vessel was running nor the defect in
the compass could have caused, or contributed to cause, the stranding.
The exception in a marine policy of losses occasioned by unseaworthiness
is, in effect, a warranty that a loss shall not be so occasioned, and it is
therefore immaterial whether a defect in the compass of the vessel
which amounts to unseaworthiness was or was not known before the
loss.
When in a policy of marine insurance it is provided that acts of the insurers
or their agents in recovering, saving and preserving the property insured,
in case of disaster, shall not be considered as an acceptance of an abandonment, such acts in sending a wrecking party on notice of a stranding
of a vessel, in taking possession of it and in repairing it, if done in ignorance of facts which vitiated the policy, do not amount to acceptance
of abandonment; but it is a question for the jury to determine whether
such acts, taken in connection with all the facts, and with the provisions in the policy amounted to such an acceptance.
Although a protest by a master of a vessel after loss is ordinarily not admissible in evidence during his lifetime, yet in this case it was rightfully
admitted, because it was made part of the proof of the loss.
A stranded insured vessel, having been recovered and repaired, was libelled
and sold for the repairs, neither the owners nor the insurers being willing to pay for them. In an action between the owners and the insurer to
recover the insurance; Held, that the record in that suit was not admissible against the insurer to establish acceptance of an abandonicnt.

THIS was an action upon a policy of insurance, bearing date

Mlay 1, 1883, insuring the steamer Spartan, a Canadian vessel
of six hundred and seventy-eight tons burden, from April 1 to
November 30, 18,3. The plaintiff in error, a Canadian cor-

RICHELIEU NAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

poration, chartered the Spartan in the spring of 1883 to the
Owen Sound Steamship Company, also a Canadian corporation
or association, and she was being run by that company on the
route between Owen Sound on Georgian Bay, Ontario, to Fort
William, Ontario, on the north shore of Lake Superior, when
the loss occurred. The perils insured against were thus stated
in the policy"
"Touching the adventures and perils which the said insurance company is content to bear and take upon itself by this
policy, they are of the lakes, rivers, canals, fires, jettisons, that
shall come to the damage of the said vessel or any part
thereof, excepting all perils, losses, misfortunes, or expenses
consequent upon and arising from or caused by the following
or other legally excluded causes, viz. Damage that may be
done by the vessel hereby insured to any other vessel or property,' incompetency of the master or insufficiency of the crew
or want of ordinary care and skill in navigating said vessel and
in loading, stowing and securing the cargo of said vessel,
rottenness, inherent defects, overloading, and all other unseaworthiness, theft, barratry or robbery"s
The steamer was valued at $50,00.0 and was insured in all
to the amount of $40,000. Her crew consisted of the master,
two mates, two engineers, two wheelsmen, four firemen, a full
complement in the cabin, and four or five deck hands. She
had made three trips from the opening of the season of navigation, and on the 18th of June, 1883, left Fort William, on her
return trip to Owen Sound, and stopped en route at Silver
Island on the north shore of Lake Superior, leaving that port
at 12.45 P.m., and was stranded on the southwest point of Caribou Island, in Lake Superior, At about two o'clock in the
morning of June 19. The evidence tended to show that on
this occasion, "for the first time," she laid her course from
Silver Island for Passage Island, thence direct for White Fish
Point on the south shore of Lake Superior. Between Silver
Island and Passage Island a thick fog arose, which continued
until after the stranding. She passed Passage Island at 2.30
P.M., thence the chart course lay S. E. by E. E. to White
Fish Point, passing about eight miles to'the southward of Car-

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1889:
Statement of the Case.

ibou Island, one hundred and thirty-two miles from Passage
Island. About eight o'clock in the evening of June 18, the
master retired to his stateroom, leaving the second mate on
watch, and gave him the following written instructions
"Monday Evening.
"Mr. Harbottle If it continues thick at 10 o'clock P.m.
keep her S. E. by E. until 3 A.M., then keep her S. E. by E. j
'E. small. If it clears continue on your course S. E. by E. - E."
The fog continued dense during iHarbottle's watch, and he
made the course prescribed until he came off watch about 1
o'clock A.M. on the 19th, running the steamer at full speed,
which was twelve or twelve and a half miles per hour, the master testifying that his instructions "were based on the steamer's
running on time." At twenty minutes past one in the morning,
Wagner, the first mate, relieved Harbottle and took charge,
navigating the vessel under the same orders, the fog being so
dense, he says, "that you could not see anything." There was
no lookout forward, no one else on deck during either watch,
beside the mate and the wheelsman, no soundings were taken,
and the steamer was kept running at her full rate of speed,
carrying her regular steam of forty-five pounds, her maximum
pressure being forty-seven pounds. She struck on the southwest point of Caribou Island, in Canadian waters, though she
should have passed seventeen miles to the southward of that
island. Upon the ordinary course from Passage Island to
White Fish Point, she would have passed about eight miles
south, but the testimony tended to show that she took a course
somewhat southerly of the most direct course betwden the two
points, which should have carried her some seventeen miles
south.
Notice of the disaster and request for assistance were sent by
the master to the insurers' agents, who received it, June 22,
and sent to the aid of the Spartan a tug and wrecking expedition, under command of Captain Swain, which left Detroit
June 23, and arrived at Caribou Island June 25. June 26,
plaintiff sent a telegram to the insurance agent at Toronto, who
was the broker who negotiated this insurance, through defend-

IICHELIEU NAV CO.

'v.

BOSTON INS. CO.

411

Statement of the Case.

aiit's agents at Buffalo, as follows "Spartan ashore on Carlbou Island, and this company beg to inform you that they
abandon the boat and claim a total loss. Please inform the
underwriters."
The steamer was brought to Detroit, as alleged on the one
side, by the order of her master, and there docked and repaired under his instructions, which is denied on the other.
The cost of rescuing the steamer and towing her to Detroit
was $7455.13, which was paid by the underwriters. It is in
dispute as to who ordered the repairs, or claimed or exercised
control over them or the steamer, or directed where she
should be brought, but it is not shown that either plaintiff or
defendant did. The repairs' were made by the Detroit Dry
Dock Company, and completed in September, at a cost of
from $23,000 to $24,000. In November, plaintiff served on
the insurers proofs of loss, verified November 3, 1883, in
which it is stated "That the said vessel, in the prosecution
of a voyage from Fort William, on the north shore of Lake
Superior, in the Province of. Ontario, to Owen Sound, on
Georgian Bay, in said Province of Ontario,. at about two
o'clock on the morning of the 19th of June last,*,in a fog,
ran ashore on the southwest shore of Caribou Island, andbecame a wreck and total loss, and was duly abandoned by
her owners to her insurers, as will appear by certified copy
of the protest of her master and mariners, heretofore served
upon you, in consequence of which the said Richelieu and
Ontario Navigation Company suffered damage, sustained loss
or damage, within the perils insured against under the said
policy No. 1965, to the amount of ten thousand dollars, as will
further appear by particular statement'herewith."
The agents of the insurers knew nothing of the facts attending the stranding, except what the protest showed, until after
March, 1884. Up to that time plaintiff and, the underwriters
had been negotiating for a settlement of the loss, but could
not agree upon the liability for duties upon the repairs, but
after discovery of the facts the defendant and the other insurers refused to pay Upon the trial the jury found a verdict
for the defendant, on which judgment was entered.

412.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The opinion of Judge Brown, the district judge, on the
motion for a new trial, will be found in 26 Fed. Rep. 596.
The cause was brought to this court by writ of error, and
errors were assigned as follows That the Circuit Court erred
1. In ruling that no authority was shown on the part of
Captain Gibson to bind the defendant in respect to the repairs
made upon the steamer Spartan.
2. In striking out all the testimony respecting the acts and
statements of Gibson.
3. In excluding this question put by plaintiff's counsel to
the witness Patterson "Q. What is the custom of Canadian
vessels abdut carrying a lookout forward 2 "
In refusing to instruct the jury according to the requests
made by plaintiff's counsel, as follows
4. First. "If the jury find that the Spartan, while navigating Lake Superior on June 19th, 1883, and while a dense
fog prevailed, was stranded on Caribou Island, and that the
insurers were promptly notified of the disaster, and that
proper proofs of loss were furnished to the insurers, then the
plaintiff has made a case which _przmc faow entitles it to a
verdict in this case."
5. Second. "The stranding of the Spartan on Caribou Island
while a dense fog was prevailing was an accident which is
prtma facze covered by the policy and for which the insurers
are prma fam'e liable."
6. Th&rd. "If the jury find that the fog contributed proximately to the stranding of the Spartan, then the insurers are
liable for the loss caused by such stranding."
7.. Fourth. "There is no evidence in the case which even
tends to prove the unseaworthiness of the Spartan except in
regard to her compass, and if the jury find that the compass
had not varied more than vessels' compasses ordinarily do,
that the steamer had been navigated by the same compass
without -trouble from the time she left La Chene, on the St.
Lawrence River, up to the time of the disaster, and that the
officers of the steamer at the time she started upon the voyage
on which the stranding took place believed the compass to be
reliable, and had reason for so believing, then the insurers

RICHELIEU INAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

would not be relieved from liability on account of any supposed defect in the compass."
8. -Fifth."If the jury find that the insurers received the
notice of abandonment which has been offered in evidence,
and that without notice to the owners of the steamer they
sent Captain Swain with a wrecking expedition to her rescue,
and that Captain Swain brought her to Detroit for repairs,
and was paid for so doing by Zhe insurers, that the steamer
was subsequently surveyed for repairs by the insurers and
repaired, and that the owners never interfered with the making of the repairs, then the jury may consider these facts as
evidence of an acceptance of the abandonment."
9. Sixth. "If the jury find that the insurers, upon receiving notice of the abandonment from the owners, sent a rescuing expedition for the purpose of rescuing the Spartan and
taking her to a place of repair, and that the Spartan was gotten off by the wreckers and brought to Detroit for repairs
and was there repaired without any notice whatever to the
plaintiff, and that the plaintiff never interfered with or exercised any control over or made any claim to said steamer after
their abandonment, then the jury may consider these facts as
evidence tending to prove an acceptance of the abandonment
on the part of the insurers."
10. Sventl. "If the jury find that the insurers sent the
wrecking expedition to the Spartan with the intention of rescuing and repairing her without consulting the plaintiff, then it
was the duty of the insurers to repair her within a reasonable
time and tender her back to the owners free from all liens for
such repairs. Their failure to do so is evidence of an acceptance
of abandonment and their liability to pay as for a total loss."
11. Eig t. "If the jury find that the insurers brought the
Spartan to Detroit with the intention of repairing her, and
that she was subsequently repaired without interference on the
part of the plaintiff, that the insurers failed to pay for said
repairs, but allowed the steamer to be libelled and sold by the
court of admiralty to satisfy the lien for such repairs without
notice to the plaintiff, then this would amount to an acceptance of abandonment."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

12. .Yinth. "If the jury find that there was an actual or
constructive acceptance of the abandonment, then the plaintiff is entitled absolutely to recover as for a total loss."
And in instructing the jury as follows
13. "The law of Canada provides that all vessels shall run
in a fog at a moderate rate of speed, and I do not undertake
to direct you one way or the other in regard to this fact that is, the rate of speed -but merely to say in general terms
-that if you find that the loss was occasioned by the excessive
speed of the vessel, or by her want of a lookout, or by the
defects of the compass, the defendant is not liable."
14. "With regard to the defective compass, the master and
crew state in their protest that they attribute the loss to a
defective compass, and while that statement is not binding
upon the plaintiff, and while the plaintiff is not estopped, as
we say, or prevented from showing that the loss is attributable
to other causes, it undoubtedly is entitled to considerable
weight."
15. "In case you shall find, as I have said before, that this
loss was occasioned by a defective compass, the defendant is
entitled to your verdict. On the other hand, if you shall find
that the loss occurred through peril of the sea and from no
want of skill in navigation and no want of competency in the
master or insufficiency of the crew and from no fault on
the part of the vessel, then your verdict should be for the
plaintiff."
16. "I charge you, as requested by the defendant, that
under the policy of insurance in this case the expense of bringing her to Detroit must be shown by the plaintiff to have been
occasioned by the risk against which the defendant had
insured the steamer, and if the stranding of said steamer and
the expense incurred in effecting her relief resulted from any
incompetency of the master or insufficiency of the crew or
want of ordinary care and skill in navigating said vessel, or
from any unseaworthiness of said vessel, then the plaintiff
cannot recover."
17. "I charge you, as requested by the defendant in his
seventh request, that under the evidence in this case the

RICHELIEU NAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. 00.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to show that the stranding
of said steamer could not have been guarded against or prevented by the ordinary exertions of human skill and prudence."
18. "As the Spartan was violating the statute laws of
Canada in running at full speed in a dense fog, the plaintiff
must show affirmatively that neither the speed of the steamer
nor the defects of the compass could have caused or have contributed to cause the stranding of, the steamer. The burden
of proving a loss of this kind is upon, the plaintiff. ,There is
no presumption that the loss was occasioned by the peril
insured against by the defendant."
19. "If there were any defects in the compass,, known or
unknown, rendering it unsafe, or unsuitable for use in Lake
Superior, and the stranding of the vessel was caused by, consequent upon, or arose from such defect in the compass, the
vessel was not seaworthy for Lake Superior navigation, whatever her fitness for navigation elsewhere, and the plaintiff
cannot recover."
"-r
F H. Canfeld for plaintiff in error.
The rulings of the court below which are now presented
for review, may be considered under twyo distinct heads
1st. Those which relate to the cause of the loss.
2d. Those which relate, to an acceptance of the abandonment.
I. In behalf of the plaintiff we submit that the stranding of
the steamer at night in a fog, with aheavy sea, wasprnimafaoze
a loss by a peril insured against, and we therefore insist that
the court erred in not charging the jury in accordance with
plaintiff's first, second and third requests, which were to the
effect that the stranding of the Spartan on Oaribou Island,
while a dense fog was prevailing, was an accident which was
pribmaface covered by the policy, and for which the insurers
were _rtma facte liable, and that if ,the fog contributed.
proximately to the stranding, the insurers would be liable.
It is clear from the charge given, and also from the opinion
of the court upon the motion for a new trial, that the court

OCTOBER TERM, 188-9.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

departed from the rule applicable in cases of marine insurance, which regards only the proximate cause of the loss,
and according to which, if the proximate cause of the loss
was a peril insured against, the underwriterg would be liable,
although such proximate cause may have been brought into
operation by a peril not insured against, or, to state the rule
in another form, if the proximate cause of the loss be a peril
insured against, the underwriters will be liable, although other
perils not covered by the policy may have contributed to
bring about the loss. Columbta Ins. Co. v Lawrence, 10 Pet.
507, Waters v .Merchants' Ins. Co., 11 Pet. 213, Peters v
Warren Ins. Co., 14 Pet. 99, Orzent IAs. Co. v Adams, 123
U S. 67, General Mutual Ins. Co. v Sherwood, 14 How
351, Dudgeon v Pembroke, L. R. 9 Q. B. 581, S. C. 2
App. Gas. H. L. 284, Davwdson v Burnand, L. iR. 4
C. P 117, Ion-&des v UJversal Ins. Co., 14 C. B. (N. S.) 259.
We submit, that by the true interpretation of this policy
the insurers take upon themselves all the perils of the lakes,
rivers, etc., that may come to the damage of the vessel, and
that they are responsible for all losses except those "consequent upon" "arising from" or "caused by" the excepted
perils, and if the underwriters seek to defend upon the ground
that there was "a want of ordinary care and skill" in the
navigation, the burden of proof is with them to show that
such want of ordinary care and skill was the proximate cause
of the loss.
In Unwm Ins. Co. v. Smqth, 124 U. S. 405, the policy was
identical with the one at bar, and it was there held that the
defendant, having set up in its answer that the loss was occasioned by want of ordinary care in managing the vessel, it
was not error to charge the jury that such want of ordinary
care must be shown by a fair preponderance of proof on the
part of the insurers.
Again, these, exceptions are to be construed most strongly
against the underwriters, they being the party by whom. and
for whose benefit, the exceptions were introduced into the
policy Palmer v ins. Co.. 1 Story, 360, Ins. Co. v Wnght,
I Wall. 456. 468 Tudor v Nitew Eng. Ins. Co., 12 Cush. 554.

RICHELIEU NAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintif in Error.

Even in actions of- tort the negligence of the plaintiff will
not defeat his recovery, unless it contributed proximately to
his injury Beach on Contributory Negligence, pp. 7, 9, 27,
and cases there cited Railroad Co. v Stout, 17 Wall. 657.
Nor is the rule applicable to common carriers, who have
negligently exposed the goods intrusted to their care to a peril
excepted in their bill of lading, to be applied to cases of
marine insurance. A carrier becomes an insurer of the safe
delivery of goods, unless prevented by the act of God or the
public enemy, or unless the loss results from a cause excepted
in the bill of lading. But if the carrier's negligence has
exposed the goods to loss from such excepted cause, he is not
to be held liable, unless such negligence contributed proximately to the loss. Railroad, Co. v Reeves, 10 Wall. 176,
.Morrson v Dazs, 20 Penn. St. 171, Denny v New York
Cent. Railroad,13 Gray, 481, Danels v Balantine,23 Ohio
St. 532.,
Why should the assured in a case like this be held to a
stricter rule than the -one applicable to carriers under the
decision in 10 Wallace above cited 2
The decisions of the Admiralty courts cited by the District
Judge in his opinion, holding that a violation or a departure
from the statutory rules intended to apply in cases of collision,
is to be presumed to have contributed to the disaster, have no
bearing upon the present case, for the reason that neither
those rules nor the doctrine of contributory negligence has
any application to the case at bar. -Hofman v Unon -Ferry
Co., 68 N. Y 385.
The instruction of the court is not to be sustained by reason of the Canadian statute referred to by the District Judge,
being chapter 29, 43 Vict. See Grill v Iron Screw Collier Co.,
L. R. 1 0. P 600, The Pennsylvania,19 Wall. 125.
If it was intended that these statutory rules should be
incorporated into this policy, why is it not so stipulated 2
What is ordinary care in a case like this is a question of fact
for the jury, to be determined by the evidence as. to the
manner in which such steamers are ordinarily navigated. And
whether there was a want of .ordinary care in navigating the
vo-oL cxxxvii-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Spartan at her usual speed upon the broad lake -with no
other vessel in the vicinity, simply because a fog prevailed, was
a question for the jury
II. The court erred in charging the jury that "under the
evidence in this case the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff
to show that the stranding of the steamer could not have been
guarded against or prevented by the ordinary exertions of
human skill and prudence."
We claim this to be erroneous for two reasons
(1) Because it puts the burden of proof upon the wrong
party As already shown, but for the exceptions in the
policy, negligence on the part of the officers and crew would be
no-defence. And under the decision of this court in Jnzon Ins.
Co. v Smith, 124 U. S. 405, already cited, the burden is with the
.defendant,if it seeks to bring itself within the exception of a
want of ordinary care in the navigation of the vessel, "to
establish negligence by a fair preponderance of proof."
(2) There is nothing in the law of marine insurance even
under such a policy as this, which relieves the insurer from
liability, although the insured may have failed to use all
ordinary skill and prudence to prevent disaster. Unless the
want of such skill and prudence was the proximate cause of
the loss, it would be no defence.
III. The defence of unseaworthiness relates wholly to the
compass.
It should not be forgotten that the policy of insurance in
this case was a t'me policy, and that there is no warranty of
seaworthiness in a time policy If the vessel was seaworthy
at the time the policy was issued, no subsequent unseaworthiness would affect the liability of the insurers. Thompson v
Hopper, 6 El. & Bl. 171, .Merchcnts ]hs. Co. v .Mforrison,
62 Illinois, 24:2, Gibson v Smal, 4 H. L. Gas. 353, Dudgeon v.
Pembroke, L. R. 9 Q. B. 581.
The record 'shows, beyond all question, that the steamer
was seaworthy when the policy was issued. She had been
navigated by the same compass during the entire season up to
the time of the loss. From Lachine, on the St. Lawrence
River, she had been navigated to Owen Sound. From Owen

RICHELIEU IAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Sound she had made three trips on her regular route to.Port
Arthur, running as well by night as by day, encountering
much fog, but experiencing no difficulty whatever from the
compass. The owner of an appliance or a vessel, which has
been known t4 operate safely and- satisfactorily in a variety of
circumstances, may continue to use it without subjecting
himself to the charge of negligence simply because an acci'dent occurs subsequently, he being in ignorance of its actually
having become defective. This is a proposition sustained by
good sense and judgment, and is recognized by the authorities.
Burke v Witherbee, 98 N. Y 562; Loftus v UTnson Ferry Co.,
841 N. Y 455, Cleveland v _ew Jersey Steamboat Co., 68
N. Y 306, Dougan v. Champlam lTranportaton Co., 56
N. Y 1.
IV The court erred in admitting the protest in evidence.
2 Arnould on Ins. 1353, says "The protest of the captain, so long as he is living, is in no case evidence on the one
side or the other, the only use that can be made of it in to
contradict his testimony if he vary from it ;- it cannot be adduced to disprove the grounds of the condemnation of a foreign prize court, nor will the brokers, having shown it to the
underwriters with other papers relating to the loss, on demand
of -payment, make it evidence as against the assured." See
also Senat v Porter,7 T. R. 158.
That -the admissions of the master, not made as part of the
res gestm, are not admissible-in evidence, is well established by
the authorities. Packet Co. v alough,20 Wall. 528, Am. Steamskip Co. v Land~reth, 102 Penn. St. 131, Ins. Co. v Mahone,
21 Wall, 152, 157'; Adams v Hannibal &c. Railroad, 74 Missouri, 553, 557, 559, Lane v. Bryant, 9 Gray, 245, Bacon v.
Charlton, 7 Cush. 581, Luby v -Hudson Rver Ralroad, 17
N. Y 131, Randall v A IF Tel. Co., 54 Wisconsin, 140,
Bellefontazne Railroadv Hunter, 33 Indiana, 335.
V As to the acceptance of the abandonment We claim
that the evidence shows, or at least tends to show, a constrictive acceptance by the underwriters., That the taking possession of a vessel, or proceeding to repair her, by the underwriters after notce of abandonment, without protest or notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Phuntif in Error.

of their intentions, is evidence of an acceptance; is recognized
by all the authorities. Cincnnatz Ins. Co. v Bakewell, 4 ]3.
Mon. 541, 557, Provwncal Ins. Co. v Le Due, L. R. 6 P C.
-orthivestTransportatoin Co. v Cont'nertal -Ins.
App. 224,
Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 171, iYorthwest Tran.-portato Co. v
Tlmes and Mersey Ins. Co., 59 lichigan, 214, Richelieu and
Orfaro Nawgawton Co. v Tliames and .Mersey Ins. Co., 40
Northwestern Rep. 758, Copeland v Phoentx Ins. Co., 1 Wool.
C. C. 278, S. C. 9 Wall. 461, sub nom. Copelin v Ins. Co.,
Nforton v Lexrngton &e. Ins. Co., 16 Illinois, 235, Shepherd
v iHenderson, 7 App. Cas. 49, Reynolds v Ocean Ins. Co., 22
Pick. 191, S. C. 1 Met. 160.
Defendant's counsel may argue that the underwriters were
ignorant of the circumstances surrounding the loss, and therefore their taking possession of the steamer after notice of
abandonment and getting her off, would not amount to acceptance of abandonment.
If the insurers were in fact ignorant of the circumstances
surrounding the loss, (which is not conceded,) they could not
go on indefinitely under the notice of abandonment. It was
their duty to make inquiry Mere ignorance on their part of
the circumstances surrounding the loss would not prevent an
acceptance of the abandonment, which their actions would
otherwise indicate. They are to be judged by their acts.
_Mr Iienry I. Swan for defendant in error
.Mr Joseph IT Choate for plaintiff in error.
It is- impossible to sustain the general verdict which the
jury found upon the several alternative propositions of law
contained in the charge, which were duly excepted to. Where
several distinct grounds of liability on the part of the defendant are submitted to the consideration of the jury, if either
was improperly submitted, and the verdict is a general one,
the judgment will be reversed, unless it appear that some one
of the others was so clearly established by uncontroverted
evidence as to have rendered it the duty of the court to direct

RICHELIEU ITAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. 00.
Opinion of the Court.

a verdict for plaintiff, and this for the obvious reason that it
is impossible to determine upon which of the several alternative grounds which were left to them, the jury based the general verdict. Bat
dwzn v Burrows, 4[7 N. Y 199, .Maryland
v Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490, at p. 493.
The following distinct grpunds of liability on the part of
the defendant were submitted to the consideration of the
jury
First. If they found that there were any defects in the
compass, known or unknown, rendering it unsafe for use on
Lake Superior, and the stranding was caused by such defects.
Second. If they found that the stranding occurred by
the vessel's being navigated with excessive speed.
f7Tzrd. If they found that the loss was occasioned by
the want of a lookout.
Fourth. If it resulted from the incompetency of the
master.
Fifth. If it resulted from insufficiency of the crew
Sixth. Or if it resulted from want of ordinary care and skill
in navigating the vessel.
Forasmuch, therefore, as this general verdict rests upon
these six alternative propositions, and some of them certainly
were improperly submitted, and it is impossible to say that
the verdict was not found upon those so improperly submitted, the judgment must be reversed, and a new trial
ordered.
n. CHEF JUsTIcE FUL.ER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
In iverpool Steam Co. v Phenx .Insurancs Co., 129 U. S.
397, 438, it is said "Collision or stranding is, doubtless, a peril
of the seas, and a policy of insurance against perils of the seas
covers a loss by stranding or collision, although arising from
the negligence of the master or crew, because the insurer
assumes to indemnify the assured against losses from particular
perils, and the assured does not warrant that his servants shall
use due care to avoid them." But in the case at bar, there

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

is an express exception of all perils and losses occasioned by
the want of ordinary care and skill in navigation and of seaworthiness.
The Spartan was a Canadian vessel and was navigating
Canadian waters between two Canadian ports, and was bound
to comply with the laws of Canada. The Canadian statute
put in evidence (Vol. I, Stats. Canada, 1880, p. 236) is entitled
"An act to make better provisions respecting the navigation
of Canadian waters," and prescribes certain rules, among them
that every ship, whether a sailing ship or steamship, shall go
at a moderate speed in a fog, mist or falling snow, and shall
not be exonerated by anything in the rules from the consequences of any neglect to keep a proper lookout, or of the
neglect of any ordinary precaution, or precaution required by
the special circumstances of the case. These statutory rules
correspond with those revised by an order of Council in England in August, 1879, (see 4 P D. 241,) and prescribed by
Congress, Rev Stat. see. 4233, Act March 3, 1885, 23 Stat.
438, and recognized as international rules, The Belgenland,
114 U S.355, 370, The Scottz, 14 Wall. 170. Section seven
of the Canadian statute provides that "In case any damage to
person or property arises from the non-observance by any vessel or raft of any of the rules prescribed by this act, such damage shall be deemed to have been occasioned by the wilful
default of the person in charge of such raft or of the deck of
such vessel at the time, unless the contrary be proved, or it be
shown to the satisfaction of the court that the circumstances
of the case rendered a departure from the said rules necessary,
and the owner of the vessel or raft, in all civil proceedings,
and the master or person in charge, as aforesaid, or the owner,
if it appears that he was in fault, in all proceedings, civil or
criminal, shall be subject to the legal consequences of such
default."
In Thie Pennsylvania,19 Wall. 125, it was held that where
a vessel has committed a positive breach of statute, she must
show not only that probably her fault did not contribute to
the disaster, but that it could not have done so. And this
was but the statement of the settled rule in collision cases.

RICHELIEU NAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. 00.
Opimnon of the Court.

fn this case, in view of the. seventh section of the Canadian
statute, and the fact that perils occasioned by the want of
ordinary care and skill orof seaworthiness were excepted by
the policy, the same rule is applicable, hence, the burden was
on the plaintiff to show that neither the speed of the steamer
nor the defect of the compass could have caused, or contributed to cause, the stranding. If it appeared that the inisconduct or unseaworthmess was -causa sne qua non, it was an
excepted peril, and that, as stated by Judge Brown, "ought
to suffice for the exoneration of the underwriter in a case
where a steamer, equipped with a compass known to be defective, is driven in a dense fog, with unabated speed, and in
direct violation of a local statute, upon an island lying but
eight miles off her usual track." 'We think there was no error
in. giving the eleventh instruction asked by the defendant, and
forming the subject of the eighteenth assignment of error.
And this disposes also of the sixteenth and seventeenth errors
assigned, as the burden was upon the plaintiff to show that
the stranding and its consequent losses, misfortunes and
expenses were caused by perils insured against, and as to the
perils consequent upon and arising from or caused by the want
of ordinary care and skill in navigating the vessel, plaintiff
was its own insurer.
And the same result must attend the .fourth, fifth and sixth
errors -assigned, which question the refusal of the court to
.instruct the jury, as requested in the first, second and third of
'the plaintiff's instiuctions, that the -stranding of the Spartan,
while a dense fog was prevailing, was an accident which was
pmmc facz covered by the policy, and for which the insurers
were yrmnfacze liable, and that if .the fog contributed proximately to the stranding, the insurers .would be liable.
The jury were entitled to draw their conclusions, not from
a part, but from the whole, of the facts in the case, and the
-difficulty in these instructions is that they are based upon a
partil view of the testimony It was necessary to the plaintiff's case that it should appear from the whole proof that the
loss was not occasioned by the want of ordinary care by the
master, or on account of unseaworthiness, and was not within

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

exceptions contained in the policy, against which plaintiff was
not insured. Uwson Insurance Company v Smzth, 1241 U S.
405. The jury were the judges of all the facts proved, and
the court charged that if they found that the vessel "was
carried ashore by the current or by any mysterious cause
which you are unable to explain, then the loss will be within
the policy and the plaintiff would be entitled .to recover," and
again, "if you find that this vessel was stranded by reason of
want of ordinary care and skill in her navigation or by reason
of a defective compass, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover,
on the other hand, if you find that she was stranded by circumstances, by reason of the current or by perils of the sea
- any other peril of the sea then the plaintiff would be
entitled to your verdict," and also "Stranding is one of the
perils insured against in the policy, and if the jury find that
the stranding was the proximate result of the fog or currents
of the lake prevailing, then the owners of the steamer have
made a case which entitles them to your verdict in this case."
It appears to us that this branch of the case was left to the
jury in a manner in respect to which the plaintiff has no
ground of complaint. Certainly the state of facts disclosed
by the record precludes the claim that instructions more favorable to the plaintiff could reasonably have been given, and
this is illustrated by cases cited.
1azii v The Steamsksp Company, 3 Wall. Jr. C. C. 229,
239, was a suit for loss of merchandise under a bill of lading,
which absolved the carrier from "accidents from machinery,
boilers, steam, or any other accidents of the seas, rivers and
steam navigation, of whatever nature or kind soever." The
steamer was wrecked on Cape Race in a snow-storm, under
"She struck the point of Cape
the following circumstances
Race-up to that time she continued perfectly seaworthy
If she had not struck, at the average rate of our passage, we
would have been in Philadelphia in five days more. The
steamer was wrecked. We backed off the point of Cape Race,
and run hor on shore to save the lives of the passengers, and
to keep her from sinking. There was no tempest, she struck
in a dense fog - and the sinking of the vessel, and the dam-

RICHELIEU N-AV CO. v. BOSTON INS. 00.
Opinion of the Court.

425

-

age done, resulted from her striking the cape." "Here, then,"
said Mr. Justice Grier, "we have no other reason given by the
captain, nor any testimony whatever, as to how or why this
great mistake of running against a cape occurred. The answer
and the witness both seem to assume that running against a
cape or a continent is one of the usual accidents and unavoidable dangers of the sea. That cannot be termed an 'accmdent
of the sea,' within the exceptions of the bill of lading, which
proper foresight and skill in the commanding officer might
have avoided. If the compass on the new iron vessel was
not sufficiently protected to traverse correctly, the vessel was
as little seaworthy as if she had no compass - and .this should
have been carefully ascertained before she started on her
voyage. If there was no fault in the compass, then it is very
evident that the officer who is thirty or forty miles wrong in
his calculation, and driving through a thick fog with a full
head of steam, and first discovers his true position by running
on an island, a cape or a continent, has neither the skill nor
the prudence to be entrusted with such a command -and for
want of such an officer the vessel is not seaworthy
That a steamboat has been either ignorantly, carelessly or
recklessly dashed against a cape in a thick fog, cannot be
received as a plea to discharge the carier."
In The Kestrel, 6 P D. 182, the master was suspended
by thQ Wreck Commissioner, with the concurrence of two
captains sitting as assessors, because of the stranding of the
-steamship Kestrel, by reason of negligent navigation, and this
decision was affirmed by the Court of- Appeal, Mr. Justice
Hannen and Sir Robert Phillimore,; assisted on: the hearing 'by
two of the Elder Brethren of the Trinity House.
The Wreck Commissioner,-among other reasons .for his report, said "It appears- to us that the master is in this
dilemma either the weather was so foggy that it was noi
possible to see the island until- they were within a ship'slength of it, and in that-case he would not have been justified
in going at full speed, which we are told was ten knots an
hour, or it was not very foggy, and in that case it is difficult
to account for the island not.having been seen untilthey were

OCTOBER TER-M, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

within a ship's length of it, unless indeed there was a very
bad lookout being kept on board. In either case the master
would seem to have been guilty of a neglect of the ordinary
precautions required from seamen for the safe navigation of
their vessels."
The Court of Appeal held that the master was guilty of a
wrongful act in running the vessel at such a rate of speed as
he did in the state of the weather which existed, and also in
that he continued to steer the course he did in a fog.
The exceptions in this policy protect the insurer against the
excepted perils, as a shipper is protected under a bill of lading
from loss to which the negligence of the carrier has contributed. And, as already remarked, if the peril was caused by
negligence or unseaworthiness, notwithstanding it was the fog
which prevented the mate from seeing the island, the predominating and efficient cause was the negligence or unseaworthiness, and must be regarded as the proximate cause, under the
circumstances. Waters v Merchants' Louwsville Ins. Co., 11
Pet. 213, Insurance Co. v TransportatonCo., 12 Wall. 194,
199.
The unseaworthmess especially relied on was the alleged
defect of the compass.
The plaintiff in error complains of the refusal to give the
fourth instruction asked by his counsel, as follows
"There is no evidence in the case which even tends to prove
the unseaworthiness of the Spartan except in regard to her compass, and if the jury find that the compass did not vary more
than vessels' compasses ordinarily do, that the steamer had,
been navigated by the same compass without trouble from the
time that she left La Chene, on the St. Lawrence River, up to
,the time of the disaster, and that the officers of the steamer
at the time she started upon the voyage on which the stranding took place believed the compass to be reliable, and had
reason for so believing, then the insurers would not be relieved
from liability on account of any supposed defect in the
compass."
Exceptions were also taken to the parts of the charge italicized in the following"

RICHELIEU NAV CO. v. BOSTON INS. CO.

42T,

Opmon of the Court.

"Upon the question of speed I will have a word to say,
although it is covered, so far as the law of the case is concerned, by my general charge, that if you find the loss occurred
by her being navigated at an excessive speed, there can be no
recovery, still it is for you'to judge whether, under all the
circumstances of the case, she was navigating at too great a,
speed. The law of Canada provides ' That all vessels shall
run 'n afog at a moderate rate of speed.' Now, it strikes me
-

but the question is one for your determination

-

that a

vessel is not under an obligation while navigating the open
lake to slacken her speed because of a fog unless there is some
reason to apprehend collision with .another vessel, or unless the
vessel is so near the shore or known to be so near the shore
that she might run upon it, unless she was navigated at a less
rate of, speed, and if this compass had been a prope-;compass,
and there was no reason to think it was otherwise ,I should
feel loth myself to charge the vessel with fault on account of
excessive speed. On the other hand, if this compass were
known to the captain, or he had good reason to believe it was.
defective, then it would strike -me that in passing in the neighborhood of Caribou. Island he should have directed the speed
of .the steamer to be slowed. But, as I said before, gentlemen,
that is a question for your consideration, and I do not under-.
take to direct you one way or the other 'n
mregard to this fact,
but merely to say ' general terms that ?f you find that the loss
was. occasoned by the excessive 6Teed of the vessel or by her
-wantof a lookout or by the defects of the compass, the defendant
winot Ziable. With regard to the defective compass, the mastei
and crew state 'n theirprotest that they attribute the losso a
defective .compass, and.while that staWement is not bnding upon.
the plaintmf here and while-the plasntiff 's not, estopped, as w
say, or preventedfrom showing that the loss 'is attributable to
other causes, it undoubtedly ws entitled to considerable wezghtOn the other hand, it is shown, that the vessel had navigated
from. Owen Sound up to Sault Ste. IMarie and from the Sault.
uqp to Port Arthur with this compass-, and that no unusual
deviation had beei detected, except that-the captain thought
the compass was a little slow, as he Laid. Now, then, gentle-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

men, in case you shallfind, as 1 have sasd before, that this loss
was occasqoned by a defective compass, the defendant ss entitled
to your verdict. On the other hand, 'if you shall find that the
loss occurred throughperilof the sea andfrom no want of skill
sn navigation and no want of competency sn the master or
suffictency of the crew and from no fault on the part of the
'vessel, then your verdict should be for the plazntif"

The court also instructed the jury
"The stranding of said steamer at a point 17 miles out of the
course on which said steamer was running in navigating the
distance of about 130 miles is prma facze evidence that
the compass was defective, and throws the burden of proving
that the compass was correct upon the plaintiff.
"I charge you, as requested by the plaintiff in his eighth
request, that the jury are entitled to consider the fact that the
Spartan had been successfully navigated by this compass during the season up to the time of her stranding, and that on
her final trip she had made a good course from Fort William
to Silver Island and from Silver Island to Passage Island, and
that she was upon her usual course when she passed the Quebec, as evidence tending to show that the officers had reason
for believing that the compass was a proper one, and to rebut
the charge that they were negligent in using that compass.
"The steamer is presumed to have been seaworthy, and that
her officers were competent to navigate and manage her, and
the insurers are not entitled to a verdict on account of unseaworthiness unless they prove by a preponderance of evidence
that she was unseaworthy
"But that is to be construed in connection with the charge
I gave you that the fact that she ran ashore, on a still night,
upon Caribou Island, 17 miles out of her course, raises the
presumption of unseaworthiness, which it devolves upon plaintiff to explain."
The court charged that there was but one defect in connection with the defence of unseaworthiness to which attention
need be called, and that was "the want of a proper compass,"
and, among other things, said. "It was the duty of the plaintiff
to keep the Spartan in a seaworthy condition for the safe

RICHELIEU INAV CO. v. BOSTONh INS. CO.

429

Opinion of the Court.

navigation of the waters in which she might be run under the
policy In order to be seaworthy the steamer must have
been supplied with a good and reliable compass or compasses,
which must have been kept in proper repair and condition 'for
the safe navigation of all waters described in the policy
if
there were any defects ?n he compass, known or unknown, Penderng it unsafe or unsuitable for use sn Zake S'pemor, and
the stranding of the vessel was caused by, conseqent upon, or
arose from such defects sn the compass, the vessel was not seaworthy for Lake Supemor navzgaton, whatever her fltnesafor
navgation elsewhere, and the plantzf cannot recover" To
the italicized portion of this the plaintiff excepted.
The declaration before the notary by the captain; two
mates and wheelsman, -states that "from the course taken
the steamer should have passed seventeen miles to the southward of Caribou Island." The master had the words "fogs
and defective compass" inserted among the causes protested
against. There was no lookout, and both that and the rate
of speed were contrary to the Canadian statute. The exception of losses occasioned by unseaworthmnss was in effect
a warranty that a- loss should not be so occasioned, and
whether the fact of unseaworthmness were known -or unknown
would be immaterial. This is so stated by the learned District
Judge in his opinion on the motion for a new trial, and the
T
decisions referred to fully sustain the position.
W
ork vLeathers, 97 IU. S. 379, The Glenfruzn, 10 P D. 103, lrnWn
Insurance Company,v Smzth, 124: U.,S. 405. But the testimony of the captain and his mates leaves but little, if any, room
for doubt that the compass was known to be defective -on
former trips. The captain testified that he thought the loss
was occasioned by a defective compass, but qualified that as
merely given as a supposition, that the compass was defective more or less, "it was running in- opposite courses," that
when the protest was signed. he had the words "fogs and defective compass," inserted, that. the loss was occasioned by
a defective compass or fogs or the current, that he had experienced on previous, trips no- more vatiation than was general on iron,vessels, that "another compass on that vessel

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

might be just the same and different on wooden vessels,"
that the stranding must be attributed to the compass or
some other cause aboard the vessel, that all compasses on
Lake Superior vary more or less at different points, that
he could not tell the extent of the variation, that he
discovered a little difference from some other vessels in
the compass on former trips, that he found the .compass
out in the other channel, and that every vessel he was on
varied there in the same place. The first mate testified that
the captain spoke to-him about the defect, and said the compass was "a little out, it was not like the compass he had on
the Smith," that the captain laid the stranding solely to the
compass, and further, that the compasses "all vary up there,
those that have not been adjusted, they vary more at certain
points than others, a compass that is adjusted should not vary
at all," that he did not know how much the variation of the
compass was, that he steered the small boat by the spirit
compass after the stranding, on a S. E. by E. course, and
brought up 40 miles from the point for which he steered,
"the course actually run must have been J south, or something like that, judging from where she fetched up." The second mate, when asked what took them on Caribou Island,
answered, "It must have been the fault of the compass."
Patterson, the charterer's manager, said that there was more
attraction on an iron than on a wooden vessel, that to meet
and obviate this, it is usual to adjust compasses; that this compass had never been adjusted, that the Spartan had been
fitted out by the plaintiff, that the compass was a little slow,
in its movements, that he did not know that compasses are
specially adjusted to run on Lake Superior. The evidence
taken together did not fairly leave the inquiry open as to
whether the compass did not vary more than vessels' compasses ordinarily did, or whether the officers, at the time the
Spartan started on the voyage, believed the compasses to be
reliable or had reason for such belief, any further than was
covered by what the court said on that subject. And the
slight inaccuracy in the reference to the protest is of no
moment.

RICHELIEU NAV

CO. v. BOSTON INS. CO.

Opinion of the Court.

The eighth, ninth, t9nth, eleventh and twelfth assignments
of error relate to the question of abandonment It is not contended that there was any evidence establishing an actual
acceptance of abandonment, but it is argued that the evidence
tended to show a constructive acceptance. If the loss was
the result of a peril not insured against, there was no right
to abandon, but it is insisted that if the abandonment is
accepted, it is too late to recede, and that an acceptance il
ignorance that the loss was occasioned by perils not insured
against would be equally binding. And this was so held by
the Supreme Court of Michigan, P stheliea & Ontarso l arngation Co. v harme & .3fersey Isurance Co., 72 Michigan,
571, which was an action by the present plaintiff against
another of the insurers of the Spartan. But the testimony
in that case in regard to the repairs was not the same as in
the case in hand, as is conceded by lplaintiff's counsel, and
it is upon that very point of the repairs that the plaintiff
chiefly relies to make out the alleged constructive acceptance.
The "sue and labor clause" of the policy was as follows
"It is agreed that the acts of the insured or insurers, or their
agents, in recovering, saving and preserving the property insured, in case of disaster, shall not be considered a waiver or
an acceptance of an abandonment, nor as affirming or denying any liability under this policy, but such acts shall be considered as done for the benefit of all concerned and without
prejudice to the rights of either party" The bill of exceptions
shows that the officers and crew of the steamer 'Were unable
to get her off, and notice was sent to the owners and charterers, and notice of the loss was also communicated to the underwriters, with a request for. assistance, and the underwriters
sent a wrecking expedition, under the command of Captain
Swam, to rescue the steamer. The request for assistance was
received June 22, and the wrecking expedition left Detroit
June 23, and reached the Spartan June 25. The telegraphic
notice of abandonment was sent to the underwriters on June
26. The policy provided that in case oT loss or misfortune it
should be- lawful and necessary for the assured "to make all
reasonable exertions in and about the defonce, safeguard and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

recovery of the said vessel or any part thereof, without prejudice to this insurance;" and in case of neglect or refusal on
the part of the insured to adopt such measures, "then the said
insurers may and are hereby authorized to interpose and recover the said vessel." Captain Swain, who had command of
the wrecking expedition, testified that he had no orders where
to take the steamer when she was got off, and he and the first
mate agreed in testimony that she was towed to Detroit under
the orders of her master. The captain denied that he gave
such orders. The survey was held by Gibson, acting for the
underwriters, and Kirby, for the charterer. The superintendent of the dry dock testified that the dock was engaged by
the captain, "who had something to do with ordering the
repairs," ald it appeared that by direction of officers of the
charterer work was done not made necessary by the stranding.
The captain testified that he directed the repairs, because Gibson told him both need not be there, and that after that
Crosby, the agent of the underwriters, told him to keep a
strict supervision over the work, that he received no instruc
tions from any person representing the plaintiff or the charterer.
Crosby's evidence was that he gave no orders or instructions
to any person or persons as to the repairs on the steamer, nor
did he assume any responsibility therefor. He did tell the
captain to be careful "to keep what is in the survey separate
from what is outside." There was a dispute between the
plaintiff's manager, the charterer's treasurer, the captain and
Crosby about the payment of duties charged by the Canadian
government on the repairs. And as late as March 24, 188-4,
these duties, and the fact that the repairs included work not
specified in the survey, still divided the parties; nor from June
26 to the date of the proofs of loss, November 3, was there
any claim of total loss made, nor did such seem to be the attitude of the parties until defendant refused to pay
In Ptw. & Ot. Nav. Co. v Thames & -M. Insurance Co.,
upra, the Supreme Court of Michigan, in a careful opinion,
held that the company could not defend on the ground that the
peril and loss were not insured against, becautse, as found by the

RICHELIEU NAY

00. v. BOSTON INS. CO.

433

Opinion of the Court.

jury in that case, the abandonment had been accepted. The
plaintiff there rested its case entirely upon the acceptance of
the abandonment of the vessel, and the evidence upon that
question was, for some reason, largely different from the evidence on this trial.
The court in this case.left the question of abandonment to
the jury, and the finding was against the plaintiff. No reference is made, in the opinion, on the motion for a new trial, to
this question, though it is stated that the opinion "covers all
the points made in the briefs of counsel." But certain rulings
of the court in relation to this subject are questioned by the
alleged errors under consideration.
"Whether the insurer accepts or not is a matter of construction of his words and conduct., Any act done for the
purpose of making the most of the property, to whomsoever.
it may prove to belong, ought not to be construed against the
party who thus seeks the common interest." 2 Phillips on
Ins.  1692, 1693. Any act of the underwriter in consequence of an abandonment, which could be justified only
under a right derived from it, may be decisive evidence of an
acceptance. Peele v .Aerchants' Ins. Co., 3 Mason, 27, Gloucester .Ins. Co. v. Younger, 2 Curtis, 322. The question for the
jury was whether upon the evidence, taken in connection with
the provisions of the policy, there were any such acts.
As it is not contended that there was any evidence of actual
acceptance, and as it clearly appeared that the rescuing expedition was sent before the telegraphic notice of abandbnment
was given, and as the evidence did not tend to show that that
expedition was sent with the intention of rescuing "and repairi9g" the Spartan, or that the insurers brought the Spartan to
Detroit, (if they did bring her,) with the intention of "repairing her," each one of the requested instructions was objectionable.
Assuming that an offered abandonment may be accepted even
when the assured has no right to abandon, and that taking
possession to make partial repairs, not amounting to indemnity,
may not be authorized by the -policy, and that taking possession of and holding a vessel for an unreasonable time, or taking
VOL. cxxxyx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

possession after a peremptory abandonment, without qualification or reservation, are such acts as imply and constitute an
acceptance of the abandonment and liability for total loss, and
that by the abandonment and acceptance the whole interest is
transferred to the underwriters, Copelin v Ins. Co., 9 Wall
461, Shepherd v Henderson, 7 App. Cas. 49, -Northwestern
TJransp. Co. v Thames &c. Ins. Co., 59 Michigan, 214, Cincmnath Ins. Co. v Bakewell, I B. Mon. 541, Reynolds v
Ocean its. Co., 22 Pick. 191, the question still remains what
the facts really are in respect to the conduct of the underwriters. The plaintiff insists that although the captain moved
the Spartan to Detroit and placed her in the dry dock, and to
some extent, if not wholly, superintended the repairs, the
plaintiff was not bound by his action, because he was not
employed by it, but by the charterers, and that the master,
after abandonment, becomes the agent of the insurers.
But it is only after a valid abandonment and the passage of
the title that the captain thus becomes the insurer's agent,
and to concede that here begs the very question which was at
issue. Phillips on Insurance,  1732.
The first and second errors were that the court ruled that
no authority was shown on the part of Captain Gibson to
bind the defendant in respect to the repairs made upon the
Spartan, and in striking out the testimony respecting Gibson's
acts and statements. Crosby, who was.the agent of the insurance company at Buffalo, testified that he "gave no orders or
instructions to any person or persons whatsoever as to the
repairs on the steamer, nor did he assume any responsibility
theretor, that he sent Gibson to Detroit to act on the survey
on the Spartan, and afterwards sent him to see that no more
repairs were put on the steamer than were called for by the
survey, as the Spartan had been damaged on previous occasions and not properly repaired," and further, that "Mr. Gibson was sent by the insurers from Buffalo to -hold a survey
on the steamer before she was repaired." This is all the
evidence bearing on Gibson's authority, and the. court was
justified in its action. Why Gibson was not called as a witness does not appear.

RIOHELIEU NAV 00. v. BOSTON INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

It is urged, thirdly, that the court erred m excluding the
question put to the witness Patterson "What is the custom
of Canadian vessels about carrying a lookout forward 2 " The
Canadian statute provided that every steamer should, in a
fog, mist, or falling snow, go at a moderate speed, and that
nothing in the rules prescribed should exonerate any ship, or'
the owner, or master, or crew thereof from the consequences
of any neglect to keep a proper lookout, etc.
In, The _a 'agut, 10 Wall. 334i 338, it was held that the
rule laid down by Congress to the same effect intimated that
the lookout was one of the ordinary precautions which a careful navigation involved, and :Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering
the opinion of the court, said "A lookout is only one of the
many precautions wnch a prudent navigator ought to provide, but it is not indispensable where, from the circumstances
of the case, a lookout could not possibly be of any service."
Evidence of a custom to run at full speed in a dense fog, without a lookout, and contrary to the statute, would be clearly
inadmissible, and would be .of no avail if established.
It is also objected that the protest was admitted in evidence.
That protest consistg of the statement signed by the master,
mates and wheelman, and the declaration of the notary that
he protests at the request of the master, as well on his own
behalf as on the behalf of the owners, freighters, officers and
crew, against all and singular the cause and causes operating
as aforesaid, etc., and more especially "against the storm and
heavy winds and gales, high and dangerous seas, fogs and
defective compass, experienced on her late voyage," all of
wnch is certified by the notary public as being a -true copy
filed in his office. Undoubtedly the protest of the captain, so
long as he was living, would not be evidence on one side or the
other, unless to contradict him if he varied from it, and it is said
in Arnould on Insurance, (2d ed. by Perkins,) Vol. II, p. 1353,
that it would not be made evidence as against the assured, if
the brokers showed it to the underwriters with other papers
relating to the loss on demand of payment. But it was admissible m this case, not on the ground of agency, but. because it
was made part of the proofs of loss, being directly referred to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

in the proofs in the statement that the vessel ran ashore, "and
became a wreck and total loss, and was duly abandoned by the
owners to her insurers, as will appear by certified copy of the
protest of her master and mariners, heretofore served upon
YOU." Hence the admission of the proofs of loss involved the
admission of the explanatory writing. 14s. Co. v Newton, 22
Wall. 32.
Finally it is said the court erred in excluding the record in
a suit instituted by the Dry Dock Company against the Spartan to enforce a lien for the repairs, because the record was
admissible to show the amount due to the Dry Dock Company, and also to show that the steamer was sold to satisfy
the decree in that suit, and thereby to establish a constructive
acceptance of abandonment by the insurers, but we do not
think that it was admissible on either ground. The insurers
were not parties to that suit, and the cost of the repairs and
the amount of the loss were properly shown by other and competent evidence, while the sale of the vessel had no tendency to
prove the acceptance of the abandonment, but rather that the
underwriters did not consider themselves bound in the premises. The result is that the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be
Affirmed.
IN RE KEAMLER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 13. Original. Argued May 20, 1890. -Decided

May 23, 1890.

Ezparte Mlirzan, 119 U. S. 584, affirmed and applied.
A writ of error to the highest court of a State is not allowed as of right,
arid ought not to be sent out when this court, after hearing, is of opinion
that it is apparent upon the face of the record that the issue of the writ
could only result in the affirmance of the judgment.
Chapter 489 of the Laws of New York of 1888, which provides that " the
punishment of death must in every case be inflicted by causing to pass
through the body of a convict a current of electricity of sufficient intensity to cause death, and the application of such current must be continued until such convict is dead," is not repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States, when applied to a convict who committed the crime
for which lie was convicted after the act took effect.

