OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

REYNOLDS v. ADDEN.
AITEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 153. Submitted December 10, 1889.-Decided May 19, 1890.

J. H. A. resides in Reading in Massachusetts. J. A., his father, who had
formerly resided there, removed to Lancaster in New Hampshire, of
which he has since been a resident. The son becoming insolvent, the
father became surety for one of his assignees, and for that purpose
signed a bond in which he was described as of Reading. Held, that, no
one being prejudiced thereby, this did not estop the father in a suit in
Lomsiana between him and the assignee, involving a claim to property
of the insolvent there, from showing that he was not a citizen of Massachusetts, but a citizen of New Hampshire.
In Louisiana a transfer of the estate of an insolvent debtor by judicial operation is not binding upon the citizens and inhabitants of Louisiana, or of
any other State except the State in which the insolvent proceedings have
taken place -at least until the legal assignee has reduced the property
to possession, or done what is equivalent thereto.

Decree dismissing the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.
IN

EQuiTY.

Plaintiff appealed.

.Mr Gus A. Breaux for appellant.
.Mr A. A. Ranney and -Ur A. V
MvR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

yndle for appellees.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was originally commenced in the Civil District
Court for the parish of Orleans, Louisiana, by petition filed
by John M. B. Reynolds against John Adden, to restrain him
from further prosecuting two certain suits in the same court,
or proceeding upon execution therein, and to have the same
declared illegal and void. The suits referred to had been commenced by said John Adden by attachment against the goods
of his son, John H. Adden, situated in a store in New Orleans,
occupied by said John H. Adden for carrying on his business
therein under the management (as alleged) of the father, John

REYNOLDS v. ADDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

Adden, the son being a resident of Reading, Massachusetts.
The grounds of the relief sought as stated, m the petition are
that on the 10th of March, 1882, John H1.Adden, a resident
of Reading, in the county of Middlesex, and State of-Massa,
chusetts, presented a petition of insolvency to the proper court .
there, from which a warrant was issued for the seizure of all
his property, real and personal, and other proceedings were
had as usual in such cases,- and at a meeting of the creditors
on the 23d of March, one Stillman E. Parker and the petitioner, Reynolds, were appointed assignees, and accepted the
said'trust,, and gave bonds as required by law, the said John
Adden executing the bond of said Parker as his surety; that
in the schedule of assets filed by the insolvent with his petition of insolvency there appeared to be in his store, No. 58
Custom-House Street, New Orleans, about 600 cases of shoes,
valued at $18,341.47, and other property, accounts, notes, etc.,
amounting to about $28,000, notes and accounts due to the
Boston store amounting to about $10,000, and other assets in
Boston amounting to about $3000, that on the petitioner
going to New Orleans to take possession of the assets there,
he discovered that the said John Adden (the father) had instituted suit in that court against John H. Adden for $20,000
on the 16th of March, 1882,, and had issued an attachment
therein, and attached the property, and obtained judgment
by default on the 3d of April,. 1882, with lien and privilege on
the property attached, and that on the 4th of April, 1882, he
had obtained a second attachment in another suit upon notes
of said John I. Adden amounting to over $6000, all which
proceedings of John Adden the petitioner alleged to be illegal,
null and void by reason of the insolvency proceedings in Massachusetts, he, the said John Adden, being a resident of Massachusetts, and bound thereby, as well as for irregularities in
said proceedings themselves, referred to in the petition, and
the complicity (as alleged) of the said John Adden with his
said son, in the measures taken by the latter. The petitioner
alleged thAt he had applied to his coassign ee, Stillman E.
Parker, to join him in the petition, but he had refused.
A rule to show cause why a writ of injunction should not

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

issue was granted and heard by the court, upon which hean
ing a certified copy of the insolvent proceedings in Massachusetts was presented and received in evidence, and on the 15th
of May, 1882, a preliminary injunction was issued restraining
the defendant, John Adden, from enforcing his judgment in
the first suit, and from proceeding further in the second, also
restraining the sheriff of the parish from selling the goods
seized by him. A motion to dissolve the injunction was subsequently made, and after argument was refused. The principal grounds of refusal were, that John Adden was a resident
of Massachusetts, and had become surety of one of the assignees
of his son, and was therefore estopped and bound by the proceedings in insolvency
On the 24:th of May, 1883, the defendant, John Adden, filed
a petition for the removal of the cause into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
In this petition Adden contends, amongst other things, that
the insolvent laws of Massachusetts, under which Reynolds
claims the property in controversy, impair the obligation of
the contract between the petitioner and John H. Adden, and
deprive the petitioner of his property without due process of
law, and are in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, that he had already, in an answer filed in the case,
claimed that the said insolvent laws deprived him, who was a
citizen of the State of New Hampshire, of the privileges and
immunities of citizens in the several States, and were in violation of the 4th article of the Constitution of the United
States. And after setting up various other claims of privileges and immunities under the Constitution of the United
States, alleged to be violated by said insolvent proceedings,
the petitioner further stated that at the commencement of
this suit, and continuously since, he had been and still was a
citizen of the State of New Hampshire, and that said Reynolds and John: H. Adden then were, and had continually
been, citizens of Massachusetts, and that Duffv, the sheriff of
the parish of Orleans, was, and is, a citizen of the State of
Louisiana. He further represented that in said suit the real
controversy was between said Reynolds and the petitioner,

REYNOLDS v. ADDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

and that John H. Adden, and Duffy, the sheriff, were not
necessary, but merely formal defendants. The civil district
court refused the application for the removal of the cause,
but a certiffied copy of the proceedings being presented to the
Circuit Court of the United States, that court took jurisdiction
of the case, and ordered it to be docketed on the equity side
of the court. A motion was made to remand the cause to the
state court, which, after argument, was refused. Evidence
was taken as to the residence and citizenship of the defendant, John Adden, and as to his connection with the business
of his son, and the general character of the proceedings had
in the insolvency case in Massachusetts, and m the suits instituted by John Adden m New Orleans at the final hearing.
The court dismissed the petition or bill of complaint, and the
petitioner, Reynolds, has appealed.
The first question which we shall consider is as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States. It is strenuously contended by the appellant that the case ought not to
have been removed from the state court, and ought to have
been remanded to that court upon the motion made for that
purpose. The ground of this contention is that John Adden,
the defendant, was a citizen of Massachusetts, and not a citizen
of New Hampshire, as alleged by him in his petition for removal, or that if he was not in fact a citizen of Massachusetts
he was estopped from denying that he was such by his acts
and declarations in the proceedings, both m Massachusetts and
in New Orleans. In the insolvency proceedings in Massachusetts he became, on the 23d day of March, 1882, the surety of
Stillman E. Parker, one of the assignees of John H. Adden,
and in the same bond he is described as "John Adden, of
Reading, in the county of Middlesex." It was also testified
by one Ambrose Eastman that John Adden, being examined
on oath at the meeting of the creditors of his son in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, on the 23d of March, 1882, testified that he
resided in the town of Reading, county of Middlesex, in Massachusetts. It is also shown that in his 'petition for the attachments issued at his suit in New Orleans on the 16th of March,
1882, and the 4th of April the same year, he is described as

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"John Adden, residing in the State of Massachusetts." But
these petitions were not signed by him, but by his attorneys
in New Orleans. On the other hand, the overwhelming evidence of a great number of witnesses puts the matter beyond
all doubt, that whilst he had at a former period resided in
Reading, Massachusetts, he had removed from thence to Lancaster, in the State of New Hampshire, in October, 1874, and
had continued to reside in Lancaster ever since that time.
His being described as residing in Reading at the time of the
insolvency of his son was a natural inadvertence arising from
the fact that in consequence of the intimate relations between
him and his son, (who did reside at Reading,) he was often
at that place on business or social visits. The only question,
therefore, that arises on this branch of the subject is whether
he is permitted to show the truth, or whether he is estopped
by the papers before referred to, in which he is described as
rqsiding in Massachusetts. The evidence of Ambrose Eastman
is contradicted by a number of witnesses equally in a position
to hear what Adden did testify and there is no question in
our minds that Mr. Eastman was mistaken in his recollection.
As to the papers relied on by the appellant, we are of opinion
that Adden was not concluded by the descriptions of person
contained in them. He was so often in Boston and Reading,
about the business of his son and in intercourse with him, that
the descriptive words "of Massachusetts," or "of Reading,
Massachusetts," or "residing in Massachusetts" might easily
have been overlooked, and the same words in the petitions
for attachment in New Orleans were applied and used by his
counsel there, and not by himself. 'They present no case upon
which an estoppel as to the citizenship of Adden can be
founded. He might even have been a temporary resident of
Massachusetts, and yet a citizen of New Hampshire. So that
if the descriptive words were to be taken as true they would
not be decisive. But they were words of mere description,
and as such they could not estop him from showing the truth
and the fact. They induced no conduct on the part of the
appellant, or of any of the creditors of John H. Adden, which
operated to their prejudice. They contained no element of

REYNOLDS v. ADDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

estoppel. We are satisfied, therefore, that the cause was
properly removed from the state court, and that the Circuit
Court of the United States had jurisdiction thereof.
The next question to be considered is as to the legal right
of the defendant, John Adden, to institute the suits and issue
the attachments which were prosecuted by him at New Orleans. As.a resident and citizen of New Hampshire, was
he concluded by the insolvent proceedings in Massachusetts,
and the incidental transfer of the property of John H. Adden
therein 2 If he was, then he had no right to take the proceedings which he did take in Louisiana. .Had he been a citizen
and resident of Massachusetts, the question would have been a
different one. We have recently decided, in the case of Cole
v. Cunnngham, 133 U. S. 107, that a creditor, who is a citizen
and resident of the same State with his debtor, against whom
insolvent proceedings have been instituted in said State, is
bound by the assignment of the debtor's property in such proceedings, and if he attempts to attach or seize the personal.
property of the debtor situated in another State, and embraced
in the assignment, he may be restrained, by injunction by the
courts of said State in which he and his debtor reside. That
was a case, arising in Massachusetts, and the effect and operation of assignments made by debtors of personal property belonging to them in other States is elaborately discussed by the
Chief Justice delivering the opinion of this court. It was held
that where a debtor and his, creditor were both citizens and
residents of Massachusetts, and the former went into insolvency, and regular proceedings unaer the insolvent laws of the
State were had, the creditor might be enjoined by the courts of
Massachusetts from attaching, goods and credits of the debtor
in New York, although in, the latter State such attachment
would be legal and valid. But that is not the present case.
Here it i§sproved beyond doubt that John Adden was not
a citizen or resident of Massachusetts, but was a citizen and
resident of New Hampshire, and the question is whether,
as such citizen of New Hampshire, he had a right to prosecute
his claims against John H. Adden, by attachment of the goods
of the latter in the State of Louisiana by the laws of the latter
voL. cxxivi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

State. Itis by the laws of Louisiana that the question must
be decided. Every State exercises to a greater or less extent,
as it deems expedient, the comity of giving effect to the insolvent proceedings of other States, except as it may be compelled to give them full effect by the Constitution of the
United States. Where the transfer of the debtor's property
is the result of a judicial proceeding, as in the present case,
there is no provision of the Constitution which requires the
courts of another State to carry it into effect, and, as a general rule, no state court will do this to the prejudice of the
citizens of its own State.
But without discussing the rules adopted in different States
on this subject, which are fully examined and commented
upon in the treatises on private international law, our present
inquiry is confined particularly to the doctrine of the courts of
Louisiana. And here we are entirely free from embarrassment. By a succession of cases decided by the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, it has become the established law of that State,.
that such transfers by judicial operation are not binding upon
the citizens and inhabitants of Louisiana, or of any other State
except the State in which the insolvent proceedings have
taken place -at least until the legal assignee has reduced the
property into possession or done what is equivalent thereto.
Oltver v Townes, 2 IMartin, (N.S.,) 93, Tyree v Sands, 24:
La. Ann. 363, .Lwhtensteim v Gillett, 37 La. Ann. 522. In
the case last cited, a receiver under a creditor's bill, appointed
by a chancery court of Georgia, sought to recover possession
of the property of the defendants adversely to the rights acquired by the plaintiffs under an attachment of that property
in Louisiana. The plaintiffs' attachment was effected on the
26th of April, 1883. The intervention of the receiver was
filed December 13, 1883. The Supreme Court of Louisiana.
speaking through Mr. Justice Poche, after adverting to the
distinction between a voluntary assignment and a compulsory
one executed by order of a court, proceeds to say "We (1
not propose to deny to him [the receiver], and we must not
be understood as debarring him absolutely, of any right under
his appointment to claim and obtain possession of the property

REYNOLDS

v. ADDEN.

Opinion of the Court.

of Gillett Brothers, in case the exercise of such right does not
militate with or destroy any existing rights acquired by creditors under proceedings instituted in our courts. In ins brief,
his counsel concedes that the claim which he now presses to
our favorable consideration could not be enforced to the detriment of previously acquired rights of our own citizens. But
he contends that the protection cannot be extended to plaintiffs for the reason that they are residents of the State of New
York.
In our opinion, it is sufficient that the creditor
who has acquired rights by legal process in our courts, be not
a resident or a citizen of the State whose court has appointed a
receiver who urges claims adverse to his acquired rights in our
courts. The plaintiffs in this case, residents of New York, are
not more amenable to the jurisdiction of the Georgia courts
than would be a citizen of Louisiana, and they are legally entitled to the full protection of our courts against the claims of
intervener."
Such, therefore, being the rule of comity applied by the
courts of that State, we have no hesitation m saying that the
defendant, John Adden, had a perfect right to prosecute his
claims in the manner he did. No rule of law stood in his
way, and nothing in the circumstances of the case, so far as
we have been able to discover, prevented him from taking the
course he did. It will be observed that his first suit in New
Orleans was commenced on the 16th of March, 1882, a week
prior to the meeting of the creditors in Cambridge and the
appointment of the assignees in insolvency He had not then
done anything to interfere with his right to sue, and he did
not afterwards do anything to take away that right. His
going security on the bond of Parker as one of the assignees
of his son is not shown to have any significancy in the matter in question. There was no reason why he should not
approve of and acquiesce in the insolvent proceedings that
were undertaken, nor why he should not, as an act of friendly
accommodation, sign the bond of Parker, who seems to.have
been his brother-in-law None of these things committed him
to a position inconsistent withthe prosecution of his claim in
New Orleans.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

We have given due attention to the minor points raised by
the appellant's counsel, but do not find anything therein
which calls for a reversal of the decree' The decree of the
Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.

NASHUA AND LOWELL RAILROAD CORPORATION v. BOSTON AND LOWELL RAILROAD
CORPORATION.
APPEAL

FROM THIM

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 166. Argued December, 16, 17, 1889; M(arch 31, 1890. -Decided May 19, 1890.
Railroad corporations, created by two or more States, though joined in
their interests, in the operation of their roads, in the issue of their stock
and in the division of their profits, so as practically to be a single corporation, do not lose their identity, but each has its existence and its
standing in the courts of the country only by virtue of the legislation of
the State by winch it was created, and the union of name, of officers, of
business and of property does not change their distinctive character as
separate corporations.
The Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation was incorporated by the
State of New Hampshire June 23, 1835, "to locate construct and keep
in repair a railroad from any point in thc southern line of the State
to some convenient place in or near Nashua," seven persons being named
as incorporators. The Nashua and Lowell Railroad Corporation, (three
out of the seven being named as incorporators,) was incorporated by the
State of Massachusetts on the 16th of April, 1836, " to locate, construct
and finally complete a railroad from Lowell "". to form a junction with
the portion of said Nashua and Lowell Railroad lying within the State
of New Hampshire." The legislature of Massachusetts, on the 10t
of April, 1838, enacted that " the stockholders" of the New Hampshire
Company "are hereby constituted stockholders " of the Massachusetts
Company " and the said two corporations are hereby united iito one
corporation," and further provided that the act should "not take efiect
until the legislature of
New Hampshire shall have passed an act
simiilar to this unitina the said stockholders into one corporation, nor
The
until the sai(d acts have been accepted by the said stockholders."
legislature of New Hampshire, on the 26th of June, 1838, enacted " that
are hereby authorized, from and after the
the two corporations

