OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

PER CuRIm. (May 19, 1890) The motion for leave to amend
the writ of error, citation and bond inthis cause is denied, and
DiM
snsed.
the writ of error is
-Mr TF C. Goudy for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr Soliutor Generalfor defendants in error.

IN IRE BURRUS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 10.

Original.

JI890.
Submitted March 10,1890.- Decided May 19,

A District Court of the United States has no authority in law to issue a
writ of habeas corpus to restore an infant to the custody of its father,

when unlawfully detained by its grand-parents.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr G M. -Lambertsonfor the petitioner.
J.A John Schomp opposing.
MR.

JUSTICE MILLE.R

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application by Thomas F Burrus to this court, in
the exercise of its original jurisdiction, for a writ of habeas
corpus to relieve him from the custody and unlawful imprisonment, as he declares, in which he is held by Brad. D
Slaughter, United States marshal of the State of Nebraska, in
the jail at Omaha in said State, by virtue of an order of the
District Court of the United States for that district. Upon
the filing of the petition in this court, a rule was entered and
served upon Slaughter to show cause why said writ of habeas
corpus should not issue. To this rule Slaughter made return.
In this return he says that" the said petitioner is in his custody
under and by virtue of an order and judgment of the Honor-

IN RE BURRUS.
Opinion of the Court.

able Elmer S. Dundy, Judge of the United States Court for
the District of Nebraska, a copy of which order is hereto attached, and forms a part of this my return to aforesayl writ.'
He further attaches to this return a "true and correct copy of
the whole proceedings in the controversy that brought about
the judgment and order aforesaid, and he holds the said
Thomas F Btirrus in his custody subject to and m pursuance
of the aforesaid order and said judgment of the court, and
submits whether he isentitled to his discharge as prayed for."
This return is signed "Brad. D. Slaughter, marshal of the
United States for the District of Nebraska."
The substance of this record shows that Louis B. Miller, of
the town of Oxford, county of Butler, and State of Ohio, and
a citizen of that State, was the father of a child named Evelyn
Estelle Miller, who was born on the 7th day of October, 1881,
that his wife died on the 18th of May, 1S82, while he and his
wife were residing in Nemaha County, in the State of Nebraska, and that while his wife was lying sick of measles,
from which she ultimately died, the child was taken, under
the directions of a physician, to the residence of the grandfather, Thomas F Burrus, and Catherine Burrus, his wife,
who were, and now are, residents of said Nemaha County
and citizens of the State of Nebraska. Since that time, Miller
has married again, and, having a house and home, and being
well prepared to take care of his child, he has desired its care
and custody, and made frequent demands of the said Thomas
-and Catherine Burrus that they deliver it up to him, which
they have uniformly refused to do.
Under these circumstances, Miller made application, on the
4th day of April, 1889, to Hon. Elmer S. Dundy, District
Judge of the United States for the District of Nebraska, for a
writ of /abeas corpus to -recover the care and custody of the
child, reciting the circumstances hereinbefore stated, and also
some other matters tending.to show that the home of Burrus
was not a fit place for the child to be brought up in. Upon this
petition the writ was issued, and the defendant Burrus and his
wife appeared before Judge Dundy at a- regular term of the
District Couit. They stated the fact that they had had the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

care and custody of the infant from a very short time after its
birth and still had it, and that they had taken good care of
it, were capable of taking good care of it, and were very much
attached to it, and it was attached to them, and they claimed
the right to continue in the custody and control of the child,
who was then between eight and nine years old.
Afterwards, on the 25th day of June, 1889, Judge Dundy
made an order that said Evelyn E. Miller, the child, was improperly detained and kept by Thomas Burrus and Catherine
Burrus, and that she, the said Evelyn E. Miller, should be
awarded -to the care and custody of her father, Louis E. Miller,
the petitioner, and that said Burrus and wife produce the child
before the court within five days from the date of said order.
From this order an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court for
that District, before Judge Brewer, who decided that neither
he nor the Circuit Court had any jurisdiction to hear the case
on appeal, and remitted the case to the District Court. On
the 16th of December, 1889, an order was made reciting
that the court had heard the argument of counsel on a motion
to stay proceedings and dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction of the court, and the court being of opinion that the cause
was properly before it, and that the judge had jurisdiction of
the same, and ordering that the stay of proceedings theretofore granted be terminated, and that the judgment of the
court made on the 25th day of June, 1889, be carried into
effect. It appears that the order for the delivery of the child
to -the father was obeyed in the presence of the court, but
that, Miller having started from Omaha for his home in Ohio
with the child, the petitioner Burrus and his wife got into the
same train, and crossed the Missouri River on that train, and
that when they reached Council Bluffs, in the State of Iowa,
on the opposite side of the river, they again made efforts to
secure possession of the child. The result of these efforts was,
that the father proceeded somewhat further into the State
of Iowa, whilst the defendants, taking possession of the child
with violence and against the will of the father, returned with
it to the State of Nebraska. Thereupon Burrus and his wife
were called before the District Court by a writ of attachment

IN RE BURRUS.
Opinion of the Court.

for contempt in disobeying the orders of the court, and for
this contempt Burrus was committed to imprisonment for three
months in a county jail, in the custody of the marshal of
Nebraska. It is from this imprisonment that he now seeks
to be relieved by the present proceedings in this court, and
the foundation of his claim of right to be so relieved is, that
neither the District Court of Nebraska nor Judge Dundy, the
judge of that court, had any jurisdiction whatever in the original case of habeas co?.Tus before him. That is the only question in the present case, for we have no power under this writ
to inquire into mere errors committed by the District Court in
the progress of that case, and if we had, we are not satisfied
that, any such errors exist save as to the alleged error of the
assumption of jurisdiction in the case. Whether such jurisdiction existed is, therefore, the sole question before us.
The question of the extent of the authority of the courts of
the United States to use the writ of habeas coipus as a means
of releasing persons held in unlawful custody has always been
clouded with more or less doubt and uncertainty The Constitution, by declaring that "the privilege of the writ of habeas
corpus -shall not be suspended unless when in cases. of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it," added to
the exalted estimate in which that writ has always been held
in this country and in England. By the fourteenth section of
the act establishing the judicial courts of the United States, it
is declared "that all the before-mentioned courts of the United
States shall have power to issue writs of sabre factas, habeas
corpus, and all other writs not specially provided for by
statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their
respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to. the principles and
usages of law, and that either of the Justices of the Supreme
Court, as well as judges of the district courts, shall have power
to grant writs of habeas corus for the purpose of an inquiry
into the cause of commitment .rowded, That.writs of habeas
corpus shall in no case extend to prisoners in jail unless where
-they are in custody under or by color of the authority of the
United States,. or are committed for trial -before some court of
the same, or are necessary to be brought into court to testify"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It will be seen in this section, that, while there may be many
writs not specifically provided for in the statute which shall
be within the powers of the courts of the United States, the
framers of that statute were careful to mention specifically
the writs of scire faczas and of habeas corpus, and to make
some special provisions in regard to the latter. As to the
power of the courts to issue any of these writs it was said,
that they must be necessary to the exercise of the jurisdiction
of the respective courts and agreeable to the principles and
tisages of law In reference to the writ of habeas corpus, it is
expressly enacted that either of the Justices of the Supreme
Court, as well as judges of the District Courts, shall have
power to grant the writ for the purpose of an inquiry into the
cause of commitment. Tins latter clause has been interpreted
occasionally as authorizing the issuing of the writ in any case
where a person is inprisoned or confined by an order of a
court, for the purposes of an inquiry into the cause of commitment. But the proviso, proceeding upon the idea of the first
clause, that in order to the issuing of this writ it must be
necessary for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court'
which issues it, declares that the writ "shall in no case extend
to prisoners in jail, unless where they are in custody under or
by color of the authority of the United States, or are committed for trial before some court of the same, or are necessary to be brought into court to testify "
This statute, of course, left cases of prisoners in confinement
by order of state authorities without the benefit of this writ
from the courts or justices or judges of the United States, and
the law remained in this condition until the events connected
with the nullification proceedings in South Carolina, by which
officers of the United States engaged in collecting the revenue
and performing other duties in that State were for that reason
subjected by the laws of South Carolina to imprisonment.
In the recent case of Cunn?ngkam v N eagle, 135 U. S. 1, we
have had occasion to review the course of legislation by Congress on the subject of the writ of habeas corpus, which has
mainly, as now found in the Revised Statutes of the United
States, reference to provisions for protecting the individual

IN RE BURRYS.
-Opimon of the Court,

liberty of pernons, citizens of the United States and subjects or
citizens of foreign governments, from illegal imprisonment
under state authority It is not necessary to go over that field
on this occasion'. It is sufficient to say that the net result
of the discussion is, that all the courts of the United States,
and the justices and judges of all its courts, are authorized to
issue the writ of habeas corpus in any case where a party is
imprisoned or held in custody for an act done by or under
the authority of the laws of the United Siates, or where his
imprisonment is in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, or where it is supposed to be in violation of the law of
nations or of the United States, in all which cases the federal
courts and judges have jurisdiction to make inquiry into the
matter, and, in the language of the statute, when the prisoner
is brought before them and the matter is inquired into, the
court or justice or judge shall "disp e se of the party as law
and justice require." It is not now the law, therefore, and
never was, that every person 'held in unlawful imprisonment
has a right to invoke the aid of the courts of the United
States for his release by the writ of habeas corpus. In order
to obtain the 'benefit of this writ and to procure its being
issued by the court or justice or judge who has a right to order
its issue, it should be made to appear, upon the application for
the writ, that it is founded upon some matter which justifiesthe exercise of federal authority, and which is necessary to the
enforcement of rights under the Censtitution, laws or treaties
of the United States.
It is true that perhaps the court or judge who is asked 'to
issue such a writ need not be very critical in looking into the
petition or application for very clear grounds of the exercise
of this jurisdiotion, because, when ihe prisoner is brought
before the. court, or justice,. or judge, his power to make full
inquiry into the cause of commitment or detention will enable
him to correct any errors or defects' in 'the petition under
which the writ issued, and it is upon such hearing to -be
finally determined by the tribunal before whom 'the prisoner
is brought whether his imprisonment or custody is in violation of the Constitution or laws or treaties of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

States. The cases on this subject, as they have been decided
in the courts of the country, are not altogether in accord, but
we think this is a fair statement of the law as it stands at the
present time, under the statutes of the United States and the
decisions tf this court.
This subject was considered with much ability in Ex parte
.lcCardle, 6 Wall. 318. In that case, although the court
was speaking mainly of the jurisdiction of this court by way
of appeal, yet it made the following observation with reference to the act of February 5, 1867, 14 Stat. 385, then recently passed. The language of that statute was, that, in
addition to the authority already conferred on the several
courts of the United States and the justices and judges of
said courts, they shall have power "to grant writs of habeas
corpus in all cases where any person may be restrained of his
or her liberty in violation of the Constitution, or of any treaty
or la-w of the United States, and it shall be lawful for such
person so restrained of his or her liberty to apply to either of
said justices or judges for a writ of habeas corpus, which application shall be in writing and verified by affidavit, and
shall set forth the facts concerning the detention of the party
applying, in whose custody he or she is detained, and by
virtue of what claim or authority, if known, and the said
justice or judge to whom such application shall be made shall
forthwith award a writ of habeas corpus, unless it shall appear
from the petition itself that the party is not deprived of his or
'her liberty in contravention of the Constitution or laws of the
United States." In reference to this statute, Chief Justice
Chase, speaking for the court, in that case, said "This legislation is of the most comprehensive character. It brings
within the habeas corpus jurisdiction of every court and of
'every judge every possible case of privation of liberty contrary to the national Constitution, treaties or laws. It is impossible to widen this jurisdiction. It is to this jurisdiction
that the system of appeals is applied." The provision of this
statute is reproduced, with others on the same subject, in
section 753 of the Revised Statutes.
In Emprte Dorr, 3 How 103, an application was made to

IN RE BURRUS.
Opinion of the Court.

this court-for a writ of habeas cor s to bring up the body of
Thomas W Dorr, of Rhode Island, on whose behalf it was
alleged that he was held under sentence of death in violation
of the Constitution and laws of the' United States. The law
then existing on the subject of the powers- of the court in
awarding writs of habeas corpus was the fourteenth section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, which we have- already recited.
This court, construing that section, said "The power given
to the courts, in this section, to .issue writs of sczro facias
habeas corpus, etc., as regards the writ of habeas corpus, is
restricted by the proviso to cases where a prisoner is Im custody
under or by color of the authority of the United States, or
has bedn committed for trial before some court of the same,
or is necessary to be brought into court to testify' This is so
clear, from the language of the section, that any illustration of
it would seem to be unnecessary The words of the. proviso
are unambiguous. They admit of but one construction, and
that they qualify and restrict the preceding provisions -of 'the
section is indisputable. Neither this nor any other court of
the United States, or judge thereof, can issue a habeas corpus
to bring up a prisoner, who is in custody under a sentence or,
execution of a state court, for any-other purpose than to be
used as a witness, and it is immaterial whether the imprisonment be under civil or criminal process." The motion for the
habeas corpus was overruled. It was on account of this limited
power of the federal courts to issue writs of habeas corpus
that the various statutes referred to in.Ex yarte IYeagle have
since been passed, among'the rest, the one construed by tls
court in Ewjvwate .McCardle, in which it is clear, from the language of Chief Justice Chase, that the original limitation
upon the power remains, except as it is extended by the statute of 1861 and others on the same subject.
In the case before us there .was no pretence that the child.
was restramed of its liberty, or that the grandfather withheld
it from the possession and control of the father, under or by
virtue of any authority of the United States, or that his possession of .the child was in violation of the Constitution or any
law or treaty of the United States. The whole subject of the
vOL. cxx=-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

domestic relations of husband and wife, parent and child,
belongs to the laws of the States and not to the laws of the
United States. As to the right to the control and possession
of this child, as it is contested by its father and its grandfather, it is one in regard to which neither the Congress of the
United States nor, any authority of the United States has any
special jurisdiction. Whether the one or the other is entitled
to the possession does not depend upon any act of Congress,
or any treaty of the United States or its Constitution
The case of Barry v .Aercern is very instructive on this
subject. Mr. Barry, who was a subject of the Queen of Great
Britain, married an American lady, and after the birth of two
children they separated, Mr. Barry residing in Nova: Scotia
and the wife in the State of New York. Mr. Barry made
application first to the Court of Chancery of New York, by a
writ of habeas corpus, to recover possession of his daughter.
terceui, 8 Paige, 47, 55, ChanIn the case of The People v
cellor Walworth refused the relief he asked, saying that "a
writ of habeas corpus ad subjiczendum is not, either by the
common law or under the provisions of the Revised Statutes
[of New York], the proper mode of instituting a proceeding to
try the legal right of a party to the guardianship of an infant."
Mr. Barry then made application to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York,
where his case was heard by Judge Betts, who delivered a
very careful and a very able opinion, which has been furnished to us, in which he held that his court could not exercise the common law function of _parenspatrias, and therefore
had no jurisdiction over the matter, nor had it jurisdiction by
virtue of any statute of the United States. The petitioner in
that case alleged that he was a native born subject of the
Queen of Great Britain, residing in Nova Scotia, and that his
wife was a daughter of Mary M-ercein, then a citizen of the
State of New York, and that the mother and daughter, held
the custody of his child in violation of law Judge Betts then,
in a very able opinion, discusses the jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States generally, and especially of the Circuit
Court, m regard to a case like this, with the result which we
have stated.

IN RE BURRUS
Opinion of the Court.

Prior to. this the petitioner had made application to this
court, in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, for the writ of
habeas corpus, but the court declared that t]Ae case was not of
tI~at class of which it could assume original 'jurisdiction, and
that no ground for the exercise of appellate jurisdiction was
presented, and it therefore refused the application. Epzarte
Barry, 2 How 65. From the judgment of the Circuit Court
by 'Judge Betts, Mr. Barry brought the case to this court by a
writ of error, and a motion was made to dismiss the case for
want of jurisdiction in this court. In this case, which was
very elaborately argued, the opimon of the court was delivered by Chief Justice Taney, in which he said that "in the;
argument upon this motion, the power of the Circuit Court
to award the writ of habeas ooryus, in a case like this, hasbeen very fully discussed at the bar. But this question is
not before us, unless we have power-by writ of error to reexamine the judgment given by the Circuit Court, and to
affirm or reverse it, as we may find it to be correct or otherwise." He then proceeds to say that the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is governed by the amount or
value in controversy, and adds: "In the case before us, the
controversy is between the father and mother of an infant
daughter. They are living separate from each other, and each
ejaimmg the right to the custody, care and society of their
child. This is the matter in dispute, and it is evidently
utterly incapable of bekng reduced to any standard of pecuniary value, as it rises superior to money consideratious." Barry
v .fercezn, 5 Row 103, 119, 120.
So far as the question whether the custody of a child can
be brought into litigation in a Circuit Court of the United
States, even where the citizeuship of the opposing parties is
such as ordinarily confers jurisdiction on that court, the matter was left undecided in the case of Barry v Aercemi. Obviously, although the statutes .of -the United States have since
enlarged the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts by declaring
that they shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the
courts of -the several States, of all civil suits arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made. or

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

which shall be made, under their authority, the difficulty is not
removed by this provision, for, as we have already said, the
custody and guardianship by the parent of his child does not
arise under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States and is not dependent on them.
But whether the diverse citizenship of parties contesting
this right to the custody of the child, could, in the courts of
the United States, give jurisdiction to those courts to determine that question, has never been decided by this court
that we are aware of. Nor is it necessary to decide it in this
case, for the order for a violation of which the petitioner is
imprisoned for contempt is not a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States, but a judgment of the District
Court of the same District. There is apparently -a studied
effort in the record before us to treat the proceeding as one in
the District Court of the United States for the District of
Nebraska, and also as one before the judge of that court, but
we apprehend that it must be considered for what it is worth,
as the judgment of the District Court, both the order for the
delivery of the child to its father and the order for the
imprisonment of the present petitioner for contempt being
made in that court. The jurisdiction of that court is not
founded upon citizenship of the parties; and though the original petition of Miller, the father of the child, was amended
after tile judgment was rendered, so as to show that he was a
citizen of the State of Ohio, and; the defendants, Burrus and
wife, were citizens of Nebraska, it is not perceived how that
averment aids the parties in the present case, for the District
Courts of the United States have not jurisdiction by reason
of the citizenship of the parties. If, therefore, there was no
other ground of jurisdiction of that court in the habeas corpus
case, by which the child was delivered to its father, it was
entirely without jurisdiction.
We have already said that the relations of the father and
child are not matters governed by the laws of the United
States, and thaT the writ of habeas corpus is not to be used by
the judges or justices or courts of the United States except. in
eases where it is appropriate to their jurisdiction. Of course

IN RE BURRUS.
Note.

In the Matter of Barry.

this does not mean that. they have jurisdiction in all cases to
issue the writ of habeas co7Tus, but that they have such jurisdiction when, by reason of some other matter or thing in the
case, the court has jurisdiction which it can enforce by means of
this writ. Whatever, therefore, may be held to be the powers
of the Circuit Courts in cases of this kind, where necessary
citizenship exists between the contestants, which gives -the
court jurisdiction of all matters between such parties, both in
law and equity, where the matter exceeds two thousand dollars in value, we know of no statute, no provision of law, no
authority intended to be conferred upon the District Court of
the' -United States to take cognizance of a case of this kind,
either on the ground of citizenship, or on any other ground
found in this case. According to this view of the subject, the
whole proceeding before the District Judge in the District
Court was coraam nonjudice and void, and the attempt to
enforce the judgment by attachment and imprisonment of
Burrus for contempt of that order is equally void. Eoiparte
Rowland, 104 U. S. 604.
The petitioner ui,.therefore, entitled to hms discharge, and the
rule agavnst &aughter, the marshal,ss made absolute, and
the writ of habeas corpus will wssue, if that be necessary to
h release.
Ym. Jusrw.o

BREwER dissented.

The opinion of Judge Betts in In the matter of John A. Barry,
referred to by Mr. Justice Miller, ante, 594, was given in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of, New
York on the 25th of May, 184. A very brief summary of it was
printed in 7. Law Reporter, 374. At the request of members of
this court it is here printed in full.
BETTS, J. On the ffist day of term the petitioner presented in
open court, -and filed, his petition praying-that "the people's writ
of habeas corpus ad subjiczendum may issue in his behalf directed
to Mary Mercem,. relict of the late Thomas F. Mercein, deceased,
of the city of New York,. and to Eliza Anna Barry, wife of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
petitioner, commanding them forthwith, immediately on the
receipt of said writ, to have the body of Mary -Mercein Barry,
daughter of the petitioner, by them imprisoned or detained, with
the time and cause of such imprisonment or detention, before this
court, to do and receive what, shall then and there be considered of
the said Mary Mercein Barry"
The petitioner alleges that he is a native-born subject of the
Queen of Great Britain, resident in Nova Scotia, and that he has
never been naturalized or claimed naturalization under the laws of
the United States.
That, m April, 1835, in the city of New York, he intermarried
with Eliza Anna, daughter of the late Thomas R. -Mercem, a citizen
of said city.
That, in the. month of lay thereafter, he returned to Nova Scotia accompanied by his wife, and there resided about a year, when
he removed his family to the city of New York, where he resided
until April, 1838, when he returned to Nova Scotia with a portion
of his family, and has continued to reside there from that time.
That a son and daughter were born of said marriage during his
residence in the city of New York, and on his removal to Nova
Scotia he left his wife and two childi'en temporarily with her
father in the city of New York. That in the month of May thereafter he returned to New York, when difficulties arose between
him and his wife respecting her removal to Nova Scotia, and she
declared her determination to part with him rather than think of
going to Nova Scotia.
That he remained in New York until the 28th of June, 1838, and
with a view to arrange amicably the differences between himself
and wife, he finally agreed to allow her to continue in New York
at her father's house until the first day of May, 1839, and to retain
in her care their said daughter, Mfary Mercein, during that period,
and also their son until such time as the petitioner might think
proper to require him.
That in September following he returned to New York and made
every possible effort to conciliate his wife and induce her to consent to go at some future time to her own proper home in Nova
Scotia, but she utterly refusing and declaring that she had no
expectation of so doing, the petitioner returned himself taking his
son along with him.
That these attempts to conciliate her were frequently repeated

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
without avail, and the petitioner awaited the expiration of the
time he had agreed she should remain with her father, and on the
2d day of May, 1839, formally demanded of the said Thomas R.
Mercein the surrender of his said wife and child, which demand
was not complied with.
That his wife, from that time to the present period, has refused
to return to his home and has absented herself therefrom, contrary
to his desires, and has detained and does still keep from him, unlawfully, his daughter, who is now in the seventh year of her age.
That Thomas R. Mercein has lately deceased, and that thereby the
wife of the petitioner is left without any present property, and
little or no prospect of any in reversion, and that she has no property whatever of any kind in her own right, and has no means
known to the petitioner for the present or future support of herself and their daughter, and that she resides with and is harbored
in her present vicious and illegal condition by her mother, Mary,
relict of the late Thomas R. M6ercein.
The petitioner alleges his own ability to provide comfortably
for the support and education of his daughter, and especially
claims that she is a British subject, allegiant to the crown of Great
Britain, at least during her minority
The petitioner sets forth many other.matters of aggravation in
the separation from him, persisted in by his wife, and the countenance and support of her by her tamily in her conduct and refusal
to return to her home.
These particulars it is unnecessary to rehearse, and the right to
the remedy or relief claimed by the petitioner is not, in this stage
of the case, to be- determined by a consideration of the relative
conduct of these pareis toward each other or the child, or of the
advantages to the infant, to be placed with the one rather than the
other.
These matters would be most material if the case had proceeded
so far as to require from the court a decision upon the question as
to the fit or proper disposal of the infant.
The point now to be considered is, whether the petitioner has
presented a case coming within the jurisdiction of this court, or,
if this court has cognizance of the matter, whether the facts stated
by the petitioner entitle him to the interference of the court in
the manner prayed for.
The same petition in substance was presented to the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
Court of the United States, at the last term, and was supported by
an elaborate argument on the part of the petitioner.
The court observes, (Ex parte Barry,) 2 How 65 "It is the case
of a private individual, who is an alien, seeking redress for a supposed wrong done him by another private individual, who is a
citizen of New York. It is plain, therefore, that this court has no
original jurisdiction to entertain the present petition.
Without, therefore, entering into the merits of the present application, we are compelled, by our duty, to dismiss the petition,
leaving the petitioner to seek redress in such other tribunal of the
United States as may be entitled to grant it. If the petitioner
has any title to redress in those tribunals, the vacancy in the office
of judge of this court assigned to that circuit and district creates
no legal obstruction to the pursuit thereof."
This instruction of the Supreme Court seems to be regarded by
the petitioner as a declaration of that high tribunal that the United
States Circuit Court for this district has the power to grant the
relief demanded by the petition.
The expression of such opinion by that court, even in an incidental manner and not on a point under adjudication, would have
the highest influence with this court, and would undoubtedly be
adopted here as the rule of decision.
But the cautious and reserved phraseology employed by the
Supreme Court in respect to the competency of any other United
States tribunal to take cognizance of the subject, is, in my opinion,
to be regarded rather as an admonition to the inferior courts, that
grave difficulties rested over the matter, than an assurance to them
that their original jurisdiction contained the authority to award
the common law writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, prayed for.
That court says of itself "We cannot issue any writ of. habeas
coipus, except when it is necessary for the exercise of the jurisdiction, original or appellate, given to it by the Constitution or
laws of the United States," language plainly not employed to
import that a Circuit Court has in this behalf a capacity transcending that of the Supreme Court, and can create a jurisdiction to
itself by awarding writs of habeas corpus.
This opinion of the Supreme Court, I think, supplies no
authority or suggestion in aid of the jurisdiction now invoked,
and, taken most favorably, for the petitioner, merely leaves the
question as to its power to award the writ to be settled by the

IN RE BURRUff.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
Circuit Court in consonance with the Constitution and laws of the
United States.
The application to the Supreme Court was supported by an
exposition of this case, intended to show that this petitioner's
claim had been unjustly adjudged against in the courts of this
State, and that the interposition of that tribunal was necessary
to correct these erroneous judgments and secure the legal rights of
the petitioner.
That argument with the decision of the Supreme Court on this
motion, was also submitted to me with the petition, when filed.
On the perusal of these papers, I at first hesitated as to the
course most proper to be pursued, preliminarily, whether to grant
a rule against Mrs. Barry and Mrs. Mercein to show cause why
the writ should not issue, or even to award the writ, with a view
to have the entire case spread before the court, or such points
presented as would lead to a definite decision of the case.
But as the adoption of either alternative must involve great
delay and expense, both in the disposition of the case in the first
imstance, and in removing it by either party to the Supreme Court,
for revision, and as the right of the petitioner to relief in this
court, under any aspect of the case, was doubtful, I conceived it
the least expensive and more convement course to inquire and
decide whether the petitioner presented a case of which this court
should take cognizance.
When the cause of imprisonment or detention shown by the
petition satisfies the court that the prisoner would be remanded, if
brought up, the writ will not be awarded. Watkins' Case, 3 Pet.
193, 201, per Marshall, C. J., .ilbuqr's Case, 9 Pet. 704, 706, 2
Story Cont. Law, 207, ยง 1341,
xxparte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75.
The practice in the English courts is the same. Bac. Ab.
Habeas Corpus B. No. 44, case cited, 4 Comyn Dig. (Day's ed.)
550 and note 3, Hallam's Const. Law, 20; Pennce & Wynn's
Case, 2 Mod. 306, Slater v. Slater,1 Levmz, 1, The King v. Marsh,
3 Bulst. 27, Sir William Fish's Case, cited in White v Wiltshesne,
2 Rolle, 137, 138.
If upon the facts stated by the petitioner it shall be determined
that the court cannot grant the relief prayed for, either for want
of jurisdiction or because the law is against his demand, it would
be inexpedient and oppressive to cause the parties implicated to
be arraigned before this court and held under its control, pending

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
the discussion and consideration of the subject, and, accordingly
upon the doubts arising from a perusal of the papers, I deened it
proper to invite the petitioner in the first instance to support his
petition by arguing these two points
(1) Whether the United States Circuit Court has jurisdiction
over the subject matter of his petition,
(2) If such jurisdiction exists, do the facts stated upon the
petition give the petitioner, under the law of the land, a title to
the remedy prayed for 9
-Thepetitioner has read an argument prepared with great research
and ability in support of the affirmative of both inquiries, bringing
into review numerous English and American decisions upon the
same question, and has submitted the manuscript to the examination of the court. With the aid of this most ample discussion of
this subject, I proceed to pronounce the result of my reflections
upon this interesting and important case.
The incongruity of awarding proofs, at the instance of husband
or wife, to take away an infant child from the parent having it in
nurture and keeping, upon the allegation that such keeping is a
wrongful imprisonment, is most palpable and striking. It is a
bold figure of speech, or rather fiction, to which the law ought not
to resort, unless indispensably necessary to be employed in preservation of parental rights, or the personal fondness of the child.
The courts, however, assume such supposititious imprisonment to
exist as the foundation for jurisdiction, to a limited extent, over the
detention of infants, even by their parents, on the ground that the
writ is rather to be considered a proceeding in the name and behalf
of the sovereign than by one named person against the other.
Commonwealth v Briggs, 16 Pick. 203.
There is no reason to doubt that originally the common law writ
was granted solely in cases of arrest and forcible imprisonment
under color or claim of warrant of law
As late as 2 James II, the court expressly denied its allowance
in a case of detention or restraint by a private person, Rex v
Drake, Comberbach, 35, 16 Viner, 213, and the habeas corpus act
of Charles II, which is claimed as the Magna Charta of British
liberty, has relation only to imprisonment on criminal charges. 3
Bac. Ab. 438, note.
It is not important to-inquire at what period the writ was first
employed to place infant children under the disposal of courts of

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
law and equity This was clearly so in England anterior to our
Revolution, Rex v. Smith, 2 Strange, 982, Rex v. Delaval, 3 Burrow, 1434, Blisset's Case, Lofft, 748, and the-practice has been fully
confirmed in the continued assertion of the authority by those
courts unto the present day King v. De2Yanneville, 5 East, 221,
De .Manneville v DeManneville, 10 Ves. 52, Ball v. .Ball,2 Sim. 35,
Ex parte Skinner, 9 J. B. Moore, 278, King v Greenhill,.4 Ad. &
El. 624, and this indifferently, whether the interposition of the
court is demanded by the father or mother. 4 Ad. & El. 624, ub
sup., 9 Moore, 278, ubt sup.
The late act of 2 and 3 Viet. c. 54, (1839,) sanctions the
piinciple, and would seem to reinstate the old dictum that the.
judgment, and discretion of the court is not to be controlled by any
supposed legal right of the father in exclusion of that- of the
mother, if the infant be within the age of seven years. An act of
the State of New York, passed in 1830, had established the same
doctrine within this State by positive law, and, independently of
this statute, the course of the American courts in this respect had
been substantially in consonance with the decisions in England,
antecedent to the Revolution. In re MDowle, 8 Johns. 332, In re
Eliza Wldron, 13 Johns. 418, ITn re Wollstonecraft, 4 Johns. Ch.
80, People v .fercein, 8 Paige, 47, Commonwealth v .Addicks, 5
Binney, 520, Commonwealth v. Br?gg, 16 Pick. 203, State v Smith,
6 Greenl. 462.
The later cases in New York are founded upon a principle common to all the decisions cited, People v , 19 Wend. 16, Mercemi
v. People, 25 Wend. 63, 80, People v Hercen, 3 Hill, 399, but in
so far as they may seem to favor the latest adjudications in
England, in respect to the fixed and -controlling right of the
father, as the true exposition of the common law rule, they are
modified and overruled by the decisions of the Court of Errors.
Mercein v. People, 25 Wend. 106, and Sittings 1844, MSS.
The petitioner in this case asks of the court the award of the
common law writ of hateas corpus ad subjictendum, with all of its
common law attributes and efficacy
That is a high mandate, by means of which courts or judges, in
protection of the liberty of individuals, exercise functions appertaining to the sovereign power, and which in intendment of law
rest only in the sovereign and are co~xtensive with Ins dominion.
Kendall v United States, 12 Pet. 524, 627, 629.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
The writ is purely one of prerogative. Whether emanating
from a King or a State, whether returnable before the King in
person, (as it undoubtedly was in its origin,) or awarded and acted
upon by magistrates as surrogates of the sovereign authority it
has always been made to bring the party imprisoned directly before
the supreme power, that if there be not due cause of law for his detention, the sovereign may set him free of his restraint. 3 Black.
Com. 131, Bac. Ab. Hab. Corp. 421, 3 Story Const. Law, 207,
.Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 202, 2 Kent Com. 26, 29.
In respect to married women or other adults, held in detention
by private individuals, the sovereign, through this writ, acts as
conservator pacts and custos morurm, and, in regard to infant children, as parens patrice, taking, in these high capacities, summary
order that the party be forthwith set at liberty, if improperly and
wrongfully detained. Lofft, 748, and 13 Jobns. 418, above cited,
People v. Chegaray, 18 Wend. 637, 8 Paige, 47, above cited,
United States v Green, 3 Mason, 482. The State, thus acting upon
the assumption that its parentage supersedes all authority conferred
by birth on the natural parents, takes upon itself the power and
right to dispose of the custody of children, as it shall judge best
for their welfare. People v Chegaray, 18 Wend. 642-3, Blisset's
Case, Loift, 748.
The cases be.fore cited show that the English and American
courts act in this behalf solely upon the assertion of the right of
the sovereign whose power they administer, to continue or change
the custody of the child at his discretion, as parens patrue, allowing the infant, if of competent age, to elect for himself, if not,
making the election for him.
Even in the extraordinary conclusions drawn from the facts
brought to light in Commonwealtit v Addicks, 5 Binney, 520, and
The King v Greenhill,4 Ad. & El. 624, both courts, in denying that
these facts called for any change of the custody of the children,
readjildged the principle, that it was their province, at. common
law, authoritatively to decide that question according to their
legal discretion.
Does this common law prerogatave, in relation to mfants,,rest in
the government of the United States, and has the. Circuit Court
competent authority to exercise it 9
The argument bearing upon the. first branch of this inquiry
assumes two propositions as its basis. (1), that.the; government of

IN RE BURRUS;
Note. In the Matter of Barry.

the United States is supreme over all subjects within its cognizance, and (2), that the common law of England is embodied with
and has become a measure and source of authority to, the national
government, and is to be enforced m the Circuit Court, whenever
persons competent to sue in those courts prosecute their rights
therein. It is believed that neither of these propositions can be
maintained, and certainly not in respect to the subject matter of
tins proceeding.
Many of the powers of the general government are unquestionably supreme and exclusive, while others, especially those in relation to remedies afforded by its courts to private suitors, are only
concurrent with similar powers possessed by the state governments. If the power in respect to parties competent to sue in 1he
national federal courts could be supposed to exist in its absolute
sense in the United States government, its exercise has een modified and restricted by Congress in the 11tih section of the act of
September 24, 1789, which gives the Circuit Courts no more than a
concurrent jurisdiction with the state courts, of suits of a.civil nature, at common law. 2 Stat. 60.
Nor again do all attributes of sovereignty devolve upon the
national government. Whether considered as emanating directly
from the people m their aggregate capacity, or as proceeding from
the States, in their independent organization and character, the
government of the Union is one of special powers, defined or necessarily implied in the terms of the grant. McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 407, 2 Story Const. ยง 1907, .hode. Island v. Mfassachusetts, 12 Pet. 657
Though the point has been labored with ability by a late jurist of
eminence in tis department of legal learning, to deduce from the
circumstances attendant upon the establishment of this government,
that the common law became embodied m it, as an efficient principle
of its authority and action, (Du Ponceau on Jursd: 85-90,) yet the
doctrine has never been declared or sanctioned by our courts.
So far as the decisions have gone, they tend to repudiate the
principle zn toto. United States v Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32; United
States v. Coolidge, I Wheat. 415.
There is, accordingly, no sure foundation for the assumption
that the federal government possesses common law prerogatives
inherent in the sovereign, which can be exercised without authority
of positive law. Martin v Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 329.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
If any common law prerogative in relation to the administration of justice can be proved to exist in the sovereignty of the
United States, it must, upon the- same principle, be endowed
with all such prerogatives, and can, on the like authority, unless
inhibited by positive law, aw%rd writs of mandamus, quo warranto,
ne exeat, or vmandates to citizens abroad to return home on pain of
confiscation of their estates, (Comyn's Dig. Prerogatives, D. 34,
35,) or this writ of habeas corpus, they being all common law
writs ejusdem generts.
That such attributes or functions of sovereignty cannot be
inherent in the United States government necessarily results from
the character of the government and the objects of its constitution.
It is not designed, in its organization or aim, to regulate
the individual or municipal relations of the citizen. These are
left under the dominion of the state government, and there
accordingly exists no relation between the nation and individuals,
which affords foundation for these prerogatives.
The social or personal duties or liabilities of the citizens come
within the control of the general government only when remitted
to its charge by a special cession of authority, and then solely to
the end that such regulations as are of a federal character may be
enforced, - as in relation to land and naval forces, and persons in
the employ of the United States, the punishment of offences, etc.,
etc., -but
in other respects the national government does not
supply the law governing the citizen in his domestic or individual
capacity
These particulars appertain to the institutions and
policy of the respective States.
This reasoning, however, may not be supposed to meet fully the
case presented by the petitioner, for although, in the abstract,
there may be no prerogative authority in the head of the United
States government, yet the argument would maintain that its
courts of justice, as organized, may possess all the powers exercised by superior courts at common law, and the issuing and
acting upon writs of habeas corpus ad subjicendum become thereby
a branch of jurisdiction necessarily incident to the constitution of
such courts.
This hypothesis overlooks the peculiar foundation of the United
States judiciary, and the allotment of its functions in respect to
the powers of the States.

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
The federal government came into force co6rdinately with, or
as the concomitant of, state governments at the time existing,
and in the full exercise of legislative, executive -and judicial
sovereignty
These sovereignties are left entire under the action of the general government, except in so far only as the powers are transferred to the federal head, by the constitution, or are by that
prohibited to the States, or, in some few instances, are allotted to
be exercised concurrently by the two governments.
The United States judiciary is constituted and put in action in
the several States, in subordination to this fundamental principle
of the Union, and empowered to exercise only such peculiar and
special supremacy, and not one in its absolute sense.
To render this connection of the United States judiciary with
that of the States more mtimate and entire, and.to take away all
implication that it was a paramount power acting irrespective of
state laws, or that it possessed or could exercise any inherent jurisdiction countervailing those laws, the act of Congress organizing
the courts establishes it as an element in their procedure/that the
laws of the State where the court sits shall be its rule of decision
in common law cases.
It necessarily results, as a consequence of this special character
of the United States Judiciary, that it can possess no powers other
than those specifically conferred by the Constitution or laws of the
Union, and such incidents thereto as are necessary to the proper
execution of its jurisdiction. All other judicial powers necessary
to the complement of supreme authority remain with and are exercised by the States.
This doctrine is sufficiently indicated .inthe decision of the
Supreme Court made in this case at the last term, and it has been
invariably recognized from the earliest adjudications of the court.
Chisholm v. Georgia, '2. Dall. 419, 432, 435 ;,Ex parte .Bollknan, 4
Cranch, 75, Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. at page 201, Kendall v. United
States, 12 Pet. 524.
The jurisdiction of the United States courts depends exclusively
on the Constitution and laws of the United States, and they can,
neither in criminal nor civil cases, resort to the common law as
a source of jurisdiction. United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32,
United States v. Coolidge, 1 Wheat. 415, Chistolm v. Georgia, 2
Dall. 432, Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75, Pawlet v Clark, 9

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
Crnch, 333, Bx parte Randolph, 2 Brock. 477, Wheaton v Peters,
I Pet. 590, 658, The Steamboat Orleans, 11 Pet. 175, Kendall v
Unitea States, 12 Pet. 524.
It is now argued that this principle is limited to the Supreme
Court, but that in respect to the Circuit Courts, they have a common law jurisdiction incident to their constitution, inasmuch as
judicial sovereignty resides in them, rendering the range of their
original jurisdiction codxtensive with the subjects of litigation
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and
because all remedies not otherwise provided are, in the exercise of
that judicial sovereignty, to be in conformity to the common law.
Although the speculations of our most eminent jurists may
countenance this argument, (Du Ponceau, 85, 1 Kent Com. 341,)
yet it has not received the sanction of the United States courts.
'Olusholm,v Georgia,2 Dall. 435; Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet.
pp. 616, per cur., and 626, Taney, C. J., Exparte Bollman, 4 Cranch,
87, Lx parte Randolph, 2 Brook. 477, Marshall, C. J , Lorman v.
Clarhe, 2 McLean, 568.
The distinction established by the cases is clear and practical, and
embraces all United States courts alike, and is, m effect, that those
courts derive no jurisdiction from the common lav, but that in
those cases in which jurisdiction is appointed by statute, and attaches, the remedies m these courts are to be according to the principles of the common law Banes v Schooner James, 1 Baldw.
544, 558, RZobnson v Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212, 223, United States
v Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32, Lx parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38, Anderson v Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, Lx parte Randolph, 2 Brock. 477
It is not, accordingly, conclusive of their right to take cognizance of the subject matter, to show that the parties connected
therewith are competent to sue or be sued in the United States
courts, and that there is a perfect right of action or defence thereupon supplied such parties at common law. The evidence must
go further, and prove that the particular subject matter is one over
which the courts are by act of Congress appointed to act, or that
the question has relation to the remedy alone, and not to the jurisdiction of the court. United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, 389;
JAcCulloch v -Maryland,ubi sup. at p. 407, Rhode Island v M]fasachusetts, ubt sup. at p. 721.
The authority to take cognizance of the detention of infants by
private persons, not held under claim, or color, or warrant of law,

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
rests solely in England on the common law. It is one of the eminent'prerogatives of the crown, which implies in the monarch the
guardianship of infants paramount to that of their natural parents.
The royal prerogative, at first exercised personally ad libitum by
the King, 12 Pet. 630, and afterwards, for his relief, by special
officers, as the Lord High Constable, the Lord High Admiral and
the Lord Chancellor, in process of time devolved. upon the high
courts of equity and law, and in them this exalted one, of allowing
and enforcing the writ of habeas corpus ad subjimcendum, became
vested as an elementary branch of their jurisdiction. In the p'erformance,. however, of this high function in respect to the detention of infants by parents, etc., the court or judge still acts' with
submission to the original principle, out of which it sprang, that
infants ought to be left where found, or to be taken fromfi that custody and transferred to some other, at the discretion of the prerogative guardian, and according to its opinion of their best interest
and safety
The reference already made to the origin and object of our
federal Union demonstrates that no prerogative of this character.
could be exercised as an incident to its qualified and peculiar
sovereignty, and I think it equally clear, that the inherent
authority of no branch of the judiciary can transcend that of the
government in this behalf, and that it has no capacity to issue this
writ, or act upon it, except under appointment by positive law.
Exparte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75, 93.
It remains then only to consider whether such. jurisdiction is
conferred upon the Circuit Courts by statute, for, even if the
language of the Constitution might import such authority to be
within the competency of the judiciary, it is authoritatively established that the Circuit Courts, at least, cannot exercise jurisdiction
as to individual rights, because authorized by the Constitution,
unless Congress has specifically assigned it to them. They possess
no jurisdiction other than that which both the Constitution and
acts of Congress concur in conferring upon them. Turner v. Bank
of North America, 4 Ball. 8, 10; United States Bank v. Devaux, 5
Cranch, 61, Livingston v Van Ingen, 1 Paine, 45, H~odgson v.
Bowerbank, 5 Cranch, 303, Kendall v. United States, ubi sup., .Ex
parte Bollman, ub& sup. at p. 93, .Mc~lungv Silliman, 6 Wheat.,
598.
The 9th section of the first article of the Constitution, paraVOL. cxxxVI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
graph 2, declaring that "the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus
shall not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion
the public safety may require it," does not purport to convey power
or jurisdiction to the judiciary It is in restraint of executive
and legislative powers, and no further affects- the judiciary than
to mpose on them the necessity, if the privilege of habeas corpus
is suspended by any authority, to decide whether the exigency
demanded by the Constitution exists to sanction the act.
So, although the 2d section of the 3d article gives the United
States judiciary jurisdiction over all cases in law and equity
between our own citizens and the citizens or subjects of foreign
states, yet, as already shown, the Circuit Court cannot, under that
provision, act on one of the subjects without an express authorizatiof by statute. Mc~lung v Silliman, ubb sup.
In our government the judiciary power acts only to give effect
to the voice of the legislature.
Osborn v United States Bank, 9
Wheat. 738, 866.
The material question in the case must, accordingly, be, whether
Congress has given to the Circuit Courts the special jurisdiction
appealed to by the petitioner.
Judge Story holds that the courts of the United States are vested
with full authority to issue the great writ of habeas co~pus in cases
properly within the jurisdiction of the national government. 2
Story Const. ยง 1341.
The general doctrine the commentator is discussing, and the
authorities supporting it, have relation to the law as it exists in
England and in the respective States of the Union. The only case
referred to as giving application of the general doctrine to the
United States courts is that of Ex parte Bollman, and Ex parte
Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75.
That was a case of imprisonment on a criminal charge, under and
by color of the authority of the United States, the prisoners having
been committed by the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, on
a charge of treason against the United States, and the Supreme
Court held, that though it could not take cognizance of the matter
under any common law jurisdiction, yet the act of Congress of
September 24, 1789, had conferred the jurisdiction, and they proceeded, by virtue of the statute, to exercise it in the case.
The court nowhere advert to an implied power in the Circuit
Courts broader than that vested in the Supreme Court, which

IN RE BURRUS
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
would empower a Circuit Court to grant the writ upon the footing
of a general jurisdiction in respect to the parties to be affected by
it.
The positions adopted as the basis of the decision would seem to
look to an entirely opposite conclusion. Chief Justice Marshall
says "Courts which originate in the common law possess a jurisdiction which must be regulated by the common law, until some
statute shall change their established principles, but courts which
are created by written law, and whose jurisdiction is defined
It exby written law, cannot transcend that jurisdiction.
tends," m the case of United States courts, "only to the power of
taking cognizance of any question between individuals, or between
the government and individuals. To enable the court to decide
on such question, the power to determine it must be given by
written law."
This language of the Chief Justice is explicit against the theory
that the United States courts have necessarily cogizance of all
subjects of litigation arising between parties over whom they have
.jurisdiction.
So in respect to another prerogative writ, that of mandamus,
the Supreme Court, in disavowing in itself the power to issue it in
the common law sense, holds, in terms not less definite and decisive,
that the Circuit Courts cannot award it but by virtue of express
authority from statute, Kendall'v. United States, 12 Pet. 524, and
this conclusion has no exclusive connection with the particular
writ of mandamus, but flows from the doctrine definitely announced
by the court, that the United States judiciary has no authority to
award prerogative writs of any character further than the power
is specifically given by statute.
The relator refers to the argument of counsel, in the case of
Bollman aud Swartwout, as demonstrating that the 14th section of
the act of Congress of September 24, 1789, imparts to the United
States courts authority as ample as exists in the Supreme Courts
of judicature at common law, in the application and enforcement
of the writ of habeas colpus.
No judicial decision (unless it be that of United States v Green,
3 Mason, 482) is found which sanctions that exposition of the
statute, and it accordingly. becomes necessary to examine with
attention the foundation of the construction contended for.
The terms of the statute are "that all the before-mentioned

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
courts of the United States shall have power to issue writs of
,gczrefactas, habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially provided
for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their
respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages
of law And that either of the justices df the Supreme Court,
as well as judges of the District Courts, shall have power to grant
writs of habeas corpus for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause
of commitment Provided,That writs of habeas corpus shall in no
case extend to prisoners in gaol, unless when they are in custody,
under or by color of the authority of the United States, or are
committed for trial before some court of the same, or are necessary
to be brought into court to testify"
The scope and purport of this enactment were very carefully
considered by the Supreme Court. Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch,
75, Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 201. The courts being authorized to
issue the writ "for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of
commitment," the Supreme Court regarded the provisions of the
act as incorporating in a considerable degree the English law on
the subject, and that the statute of 31 Charles II had defined the
cases in England in which relief could be had, under the writ, by
persons detained in custody, and was an enforcement of the com,
mon law in that respect.
The argument of the court tends clearly to the conclusion that
our act was 'to be construed as applicable to the cases embraced
within the English habeas corpus act, and as framed in reference
to the law established by that statute.
If the term "commitment" in our act is used in its common
acceptation, it would have reference to the forcible confinement of
a person under color of legal protest or authority In its common law sense, it imports an imprisonment under a warrant or
order on a criminal charge and no other, 4 Bl. Com. 296; 2 Hawk.
c. 16, ยงยง 1, 2, 3, 13, 14, 15, and under the statute, all the judges of
England decided that the act of Charles did not extend to any
cases of imprisonment, detainer, or restraint whatsoever, except
cases of commitment for criminal or supposed criminal matters.
3 Bac. Ab. 438, note.
As our statute uses the term commitment, and drops the limitas
tion of it in the English act "for any criminal or supposed criminal matter," it may be reasonable, in favor of liberty, to understand it in its broadest signification. A court of deservedly high

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.

character decided that, under our statute, a writ of habeas corpus
lies to inquire into the cause of commitment, though made on" civil
process. Bx parte Randolph, 2 Brock. 447, 476, see, also, Bank of
the United States v. Jenkrns, 18 Johns. 303, 309. But it is to be
borne in mind that the Supreme Court hesitated as to the soundness of this interpretation of the statute, for, in x parte Wilson,
Chief Justice Marshall, after consultation with the judges, on a
motion for a habeas corpus, stated that the court was not satisfied
that a habeas corpus is the proper remedy in a case of arrest under
civil process, 6 Cranch, 52, and the writ was denied, and to the
same effect was the decision of the Supreme Court of New York.
Cable v. Cooper, 15 Johns. 152.
If the more extended interpretation of the term be adopted, and
cases of commitment for civil or criminal matters may be brought
under review by habeas corpus, yet in view of the qualified character of the federal government, and the special 3urisdiction of its
judiciary, the more reasonable inference would be that Congress
intended the protection of this writ should be interposed by its
courts only in cases of imprisonment under color or claim of the
authority of the United States.
Rawle, an eminent commentator on the Constitution, says that
the writ of habeas corpus is restrained to imprisonments under the
authority of the United States. Rawle on Const. 115, 2d ed.
117
Every adjudicated case in the United States courts. with one
exception, has been under writs sued out for relief against an
actual arrest of a party under process, or his confinement by claim
of authority of the United States. United, States v. Hamilton, 3
Dall. 17, United States v. Johns, 4 Dall. 412, Lx parte Burford, 3
x parte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75, Lx parte IZearney,
Cranch, 448,
7 Wheat. 38, Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 201, Ex parte Milburn, 9 Pet. 704, United States v. Bamnbrndge, 1 Mason, 71, Ex
parte Cabrera,1 Wash. C. C. 232, LE parte Randolph, 2 Brock.
471, in which a doubt is made whether the writ may not apply in
case of imprisonment on civil process.
Judge Washington, on habeas corpus, adjudged the matter.not
within the cognizance of the Circuit Court, because the prisoner
was not in custody by authority of the United States, and was not
committed for trial before any of its courts. Zv parte Cabrera,
1 Wash. C. C. 237.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
The proviso to the 14th section, above recited, looks to such
limitations of the writ. It is palpable that Congre~s did not
intend that an inquiry into the cause of commitment of a person
detained should authorize the United States courts to interfere with
his custody, unless the subject matter upon which he was confined
was to be acted on and decided by the United States tribunals.
This policy of the statute is emphatically indicated by the act
of March 2, 1833, c. 57, ยง 7, in which special powers are conferred on the United States courts to liberate by habeas corpus
even persons confined under authority of state law, for any act
done or omitted to be done, in pursuance of a law of the United
States, or in pursuance of any order, process, or decree of any
judge or court thereof. Both clauses denote that it was the violation of a law of the United States or its- just authority, in the
imprisonment of the citizen, that was intended by Congress to
be inquired into and remedied by habeas corpus before the courts
of the United States.
My opinion upon this review of this subject is, that there is no
foundation for the claim that there is vested in the United States
government a common law prerogative, or that the Circuit Court
can, upon the footing of common law prerogative, by writ of habeas corpus, assume and exercise this function of parens patrwie in
relation to infant children held m detention by private individuals,
not acting under color of authority from the laws of the United
States.
And it also seems equally clear to me that the authority given
by the 14th section of the Judiciary Act, to issue writs of habeas
corpus "for the purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment," necessarily restricts the jurisdiction of the courts to commitments under process or authority of the United States.
I should, upon the conclusions against the competency of the
court to take cognizance of the matter, feel constrained to deny the
petition, but for the decision of the Circuit Court in the First Circuit, in an analogous case, where the relief now prayed for was
granted. United States v. Green, 3 lason, 482.
The jurisdiction of the court was not brought in question, and
was undoubtedly conceded by the parties, but the acquiescence in
a legal proposition so important, by a judge of ihe exact and varied
learning of Judge Story, and one whose judicial habit is so cautious and investigating, is an imposing authority in its support.

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.

A citizen of New York sued out a habeas coipus against a citizen
of Rhode Island, the grandfather of his infant child, to recover
possession of the child, which was retained and defended against the
demand of, the father. The court took cognizance of the subject
matter, and, after full hearing, decided the question of rightful
custody upon its merits in favor of the father. It was supposed that
the Circuit Court possessed such authority under the provisions of
the 11th and 14th sections of the Judiciary Act.
The 11th section gives Circuit Courts original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil
nature, at common law or in equity, etc., etc., when one party is
a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and the other an
alien, etc., etc. 2 Bioren's Laws U. S.60, 61, 1 Stat. 78.
It is well settled that Congress has not, in this section, exhausted
the powers vested in them by the 2d section of the 3d article of
the Constitution, and imparted to the Circuit Courts cognizance of
all cases at common law which might be within the control of the
legislative power. Turner v Bank of North America, 4 Dall. 11,
Bank of the U'nited States v Devaux, 5 Cranch, 61.
The Supreme Court say there is manifestly some limitation to
the authority of the Circuit Courts in respect to the cases therein
brought within the purview of their jurisdiction, and that those
courts have not jurisdiction, under the 11th section, of all. suits or
cases of a civil nature at common law. .Kendallv United States,
12 Pet. at p. 616.
Two particulars must concur as the foundation of a suit in a
Circuit Court-that the litigant parties be competent to sue and
be sued, and thatthe subject matter be one over which the court
has cognizance. Voorhees v. United States Bank, 10 Pet. 449, 474.
A procedure by habeas corpus can in no legal sense be regarded
as a suit or controversy between private parties. It is an inqinsition by the government, at the suggestion and instance of an individual, most probably, but still in the name and capacity of the
sovereign, to ascertain whether the infant in this case is wrongfully
detained, and in a way conducive to its prejudice.
Neither in.England or the States in this country does the court
regard this as a suit in which the right of guardianship is to be
discussed or decided. Rex v. Smith, 2 Strange, 982, People v fercen, 8 Paige, 47, In re Wollsto.necraft, 4-Johns. Ch. 80; In re
McDowle, 8 Johns. 328, 332.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note.

In the Matter of Barry.

Judge Story, in the case cited, manifestly took the same view of
the subject. 3 iason, 482, ubz sup .
There would, moreover, be a technical objection to this proceeding, if a suit, which the court might not be permitted to overlook.
N ither in this country nor in England can an action be prosecuted by an individual in the name of the government, without
express authority of the court, or the officer appointed by law to
represent the public. And no distinction is made between actions
popular in their nature and those in which the private suitor is
solely the party in interest.
The authority of the Circuit Court to take cognizance of the
case must, probably, then, be deduced from the provisions of the
14th section, in conjunction with those of the 11th, and the first
clause or branch of the 14th section must be accepted as giving
the courts of the United States power to issue the writ of habeas
co2us, without the restriction of the subsequent clause, to "the
purpose of an inquiry into the cause of commitment." And the
11th section must be regarded as supplying the parties in whose
behalf such general power may be exercised.
The argument was pressed with great earnestness before the
Supreme Court in Bollman and Swartwout's Case, that the first
clause of this section was to be interpreted as a positive and absolute grant of power, 4 Cranch, 82, but the court-does not seem to
have yielded to that construction, for, m reference to that point
they say that "the true sense of the words is to be determined by
tha nature of the provision and by the context." 4 Cranch, 94.
And they evidently regard the whole section as having relation to
one and the same matter.
The principles established by the Supreme Court and brought in
revew m that case, would seem to militate so strongly against the
doctrine involved in the case of United States v. Green, as to prevent this court adopting the latter as its guide m determining this
point, but without asserting that such diversity exists in the judgments of the Supreme and Circuit Courts, and admitting that the
decisiof in 3 Mason stands unimpaired as an authority, I proceed
to consider the remaining general inquiry, whether by the law of
the land the petitioner is entitled to the relief asked for.
What, then, is the law which this court administers? For that
will be the law of the land in respect to these parties and the
subject matter of this petition.

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
The argument assumes it to -be the common law of England as
declared and enforced by her courts, and that the most recent
adjudications in those tribunals is the highest and most important
evidence of what the law is, ana must supply the rule of decision
to the United States courts., This view of the subject 'disregards
the special organization of the United States ,Circuit Courts and
the limited purposes they were designed to subserve.
They are distributed amongst the States to exercise that special
jurisdiction.bestowed upon the federal government, or shared with
it by the state sovereignties, and not to carry with them an
inherent power to resort to or employ any other law than that
given them by express and written grant. 0lusholm V. Green,.2
Dall. 432, 435, Ex parte Barry, 2 How. 65. Although the people
brought with them, on their emigration to this country, the essential principles of the common law, and embodied them in their
institutions, yet tins was not done by them in a national capacity,
(at the time no such character or capacity was contemplated,) but as
,distinct communities independent of each other. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 435, Babns v. $chooner James, 2 Bald. 544, 557.
Nor Ras the common law been adopted by the United States as
a system applicable to the States generally and to be administered
as such in the national courts. .endall v United States, 12 Pet.
621.
This has been done specifically by act of Congress in relation to
the District of Columbia, Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 621-,
but in respect to the States the common law is regarded in force
only as adopted or modified by the Constitution, statutes, or usages
of the States respectively It came to them and was appropriated
by them, and. became an integral portion of the laws of the particillar States, before the United States government had existence.
1 Story Com. Const. c. 16, 17, 1 Kent, 471, and notes, Pawlet v.
Clark, 9 Cranch, 292, 333, Southwwk v. Postmaster General, 2 Pet.
446.
In bhringmg this new government into action anidst sovereignties
already organized and established, it would be a cardinal object
to have the limited share of judicial authority possessed by the
national judiciary administered, as far as practicable, in consonance
with the laws and usages of the State where the 6ourt was placed.
Political considerations of the highest moment would exact this.
The.disquietude and jealousy in relation to this new power would,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
be aggravated tenfold if, in addition to its authority under appointment of positive law, it could, by its inherent jurisdiction, supplant
local customs and usages, and substitute in their place the common
law of England in its primitive plentitude and vigor.
There was a deep-rooted attachment in the States to their own
laws and customs, whilst every influence acting on the public mind
at that day would tend to induce alarm and distrust of English
law, except only in so far as it had already been modified and
adopted by express authority of the States.
All the early legislation of Congress manifests the purpose to
affiliate the new system with that of the State, and especially, in
the jurisprudence as between individuals, to have the writs of the
one government or the other organs of the same law, and controlled by a common rule of decision.
This principle was varied only when the Constitution of the
United States, treaties, or acts of Congress provided a specific law
for the case.
Accordingly, when Congress assigned to the Circuit Courts,
sitting within the States "original cognizance, concurrent with the
courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law," it was careful to direct "that the laws of the several
States, except where the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the
United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded
as rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the
United States in cases where they apply" Act September 24,
1789, ยงยง 11 and 34, 1 Stat. 78, 92.
The Supreme Court has recently decided that the decisions of
the state courts are not laws of the State, within the purview of
tlus section of the act of Congress, in questions of a commercial
character, and that such questions are to be determined according
to general principles of mercantile law, recognized by American
and English authorities. Swift v Tyson, 16 Pet. 1. The argument upon which the decision is founded insists that only the
statutes of the State, or long established local customs having the
force of laws, are embraced within the language of the clause, and
that the court has always understood the section to apply solely to
state laws, strictly local - positive statutes - and their construction by the state tribunals, and to rights and titles to things
having a permanent locality, immovable and intraterritorial in
their nature or character.

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
This exposition by the Supreme Court, so tar as it covers this
question, is the law of the land, to the same -eitent and with
equal force with the statute itself, and although a state statute,
which should declare the laws of the United States a rule of
decision in commercial questions, would scarcely be understood to
exclude this decision as appertaining to that character, yet, under
the authority of that adjudication, this court is bound to regard
only certain classes of decisions made by the state tribunals. as
laws of the State within contemplation of the Judiciary Actwhatever may be their authority within the State itself.
But it would seem, from the opinion of the Supreme C6urt that
long-established local customs, having the form of lawsY come
within the terms of the section and must be followed by the
United States courts as rules of decision, and that the decisions of
the state courts are evidence of what the laws of the State are.
The court in the same opinion declares that the decisions of the
state courts upon even commercial questions are entitled to and
will receive the most deliberate attention and respect of.. thWe
Supreme Court, though they do not supply positive rules or conclusive authority Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. at.p. 19.
This decision confirms the general doctrine, before stated, that
the Circuit -Court is bound to administer the laws of the StateIt perhaps renders indefinite and ambiguous to some degree the
methods by-which the United States court is to ascertaili and
determine what that law is, whether if it is not found on the
statute book, it is to be authenticated by the dicta and decisions
of English jurists, or by the adjudications of the local judicatories.
The proposition on which the petition rests is, that a subject of
the Queen -of Great Britain, resident in Nova Scotia, is entitled, as
father of a female child under the age of seven years, born within
this State, to have that child taken, by writ of habeas corpus, from
the keeping of its mother, and transferred by the judgment of this
court to his custody, the mother being a native and residdntof this
State, but residing in the family -of her parents, separate from her
husband, and without his consent, and refusing to cohabit with
him.
Do the laws of the State of New York give. him-that right, and,
if they do, can they be enforced in this court'?
The United States courts cannot take cognizance of matters of

620

OCTOBER TERIMf, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.

Tight created or conferred by local statutes. It is to be presupposed
that a case at common law exists, of which the United States court
acquires jurisdiction under an act of Congress, and the determination of that right is then to be made in conformity with the State
law.
It is accordingly unnecessary to consider the question which hasbeen raised in the state courts, whether, under the Revised Statutes, 2 Rev Stats. N. Y. 477, ยง 88, (lst ed.,) there exists in this State
any common law right or remedy by habeas corpus, because, if the
11th and 14th sections of the Judiciary Act bring the case within the
jurisdiction of this court, it must proceed to adjudicate on it conformably to the general principles of the common law of England,
Ex parte Watkzns, 3 Pet. 201, unless that rule is varied by the local
laws.
Nor need the point be discussed, whether, if an infant is brought
before this court on habeas corpus, on. the application of its father
<)r guardian, the court can act on the matter as if the writ were
presented at the instance of the mother, and accordingly regard
the provisions in the Revised Statutes as the rule of decision for
governing the case. 2 Rev Stats. N. Y. (1st ed.) 82, ยงยง 1, 2..
The question now is, whether the petitioner can demand as his
legal right the writ prayed for, on the facts stated in his petition 9
The present posture of the case does not raise the point whether
the individual cause of action -has been adjudicated and settled by
the state courts, so as to bar the party from again prosecuting it,
but the proposition to be determined is one general in its nature
whether the facts stated in this petition entitle any party, as
matter of. right, to relief by a habeas corpus.
This subject has undergone a most searching discussion before'
various tribunals of the State. Two of the local judges and the
chancellor, on these facts, allowed a writ, but refused to award the
custody of the child to the father. People v. Mfercen, 8 Paige, 47'.
The Supreme Court, on full discussion, adopted a different conclusion, and, by two solemn decisions, adjdged that the father,
under such a state of facts, was by law entitled to the custody
of the infant child. 25 Wend. 82, ubi sup., 3 Hill, 405, ub? sup.
These judgments of the Supreme Court were reviewed on error in
the Court of Errors, and both reversed by that tribunal. Mercezn
v People, 25 Wend. 106, IVfSS. Ops. Session 1844, ubi sup.

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
The Supreme Court based their decisions upon the doctrines of
the common law, and not upon the terms of the Revised Statutes.,
2 Fev Stats. N. Y. 466, ยง 23, the language of which certainly
comprehends the broadest range ever given the writ by the English
courts, and might very plausibly be urged as extending it to matters not before embraced within that remedy. Revisers' notes,
3 Rev. Stats. N. Y. 784.
The substance of the enactment is, that a habeas corpus shall
issue on the application of any person (by petition signed by
himself, or another in his behalf) "committed, detained, confined,
or restramned of his libefty, for any criminal or supposed criminal
matter, or under any pretence whatsoever,'" 2 Rev. Stats. N. Y. 466,
(1st ed.) ยงยง 23, 25, with some exceptions that need not now be
noticed.
It must, therefore, be regarded as the settled law of tins State,
so far forth as the decision of the Court of Errors, twice rendered
on this point, can furnish the law, that the keeping of an infant
female child under seven years of age, from its father, by the
mother, living separate from him, and who has it in her nurture,
is not, in judgment of law, a, detention or restraint of the liberty
of the child, and that the father is not entitled by writ of habeas
corpus to have such possession of the-mother adjudged illegal, nor
to have the custody of the child awarded him.
These decisions have been stigmatized on the argument as outrages upon the common law doctrine on tns subject, and as devoid
of all claims to professional consideration and respect.
Mott earnest efforts. were made to place them in disparaging
contrast with the opinions of the individual judges of the Supreme
Court, whose-judgments upon the point are overruled by the Court
of Errors, and this, not .by weighing the arguments of one tribunal against those of the other on the subject, but by sharp
invectives. against the constitution of. that high court, and the
competency of its individual members.
This court was solicitous to allow the petitioner the opportunity
to discuss his case in all its bearings, and, as his language was decorous in terms. did not feel called upon to check the course of
remarks conducing and palpably intended to inpute ignorance or
disregard of the law, in this respect. to that high tribunal,. but I
should do injustice to my own convictions if I omitted to 6bserve
that, on a careful perusal of the opinions leading to the decisions

-622

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note. -In the Matter of Barry.

of the respective courts on this subject, I discover nothing in the
ultimate judgments of the Court of Errors which places that judicatory in disadvantageous contrast with the one whose opinion it
reviews and reverses.
Every lawyer, however, is well aware that a decision is not to be
estimated merely by the ability or learning displayed in its composition, but essentially by the sanction it obtains.
Of what value toward establishing a principle or fixing a rule of
law is the most erudite opinion of a high judge, when the full
bench to whom it is submitted adopts a different conclusion,
although sub silentio?
What court or lawyer, in searching for and applying a rule of
law, rests upon the dissenting arguments of judges, in the courts
of this country or England, whatever be their grade or reputation?
The judgment sanctioned by the court can alone answer the exigencies and meet the inquiry
The more elevated the rank of the court may be, the higher
becomes the sanction of its judgments.
Every system of jurisprudence imports in its organization that,
upon questions mooted from tribunal to tribunal, the judgment of
the one of last resort is conclusive proof of what the law is upon
the points in dispute; and this entirely irrespective of the qualifications of the members of such dernter court.
A barrister would not be permitted to argue in Westminster
Hall that a decision of the House, of Lords, on a writ of error,
weighed nothing in settling the law of the case, in comparison
with the reasonings of the individual judges on the case, in the
courts below
A decision by the House of Lords ends all question before every
tribunal of the kingdom as to the point adjudicated, and this is
certainly not founded upon the fact that any extraordinary judicial learning or experience exists in that body or is brought to act
on the subject matter.
That court is lauded by Sir William Blackstone and English
writers generally as one of the eminently excellent features of the
British Constitution, and as the most august tribunal in the world.
Its judgments of reversal annihilate the decisions of the courts
of Ireland and Scotland, rendered unanimously by all the judges,
and also of the Lord Chancellor and all the judges, barons and
lords
of English courts of law and equity, and no party, subject
/

IN RE BURRUS.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.
or foreigner, can be permitted to gainsay the efficiency and wisdom of such final determination.
And yet, in that court, on the decision of appeals from Ireland
and Scotland, in admiralty and in equity, the Lord Chancellor
almost invariably sits and acts as sole judge.
Lord.Brougham asserts that he rarely or ever, when Lord Chancellor, could obtain the assistance of any other member of the,
court to sit with him on review of his own decisions, and that, he,
solely, had to decide questions brought from the Irish and Scotch
courts where, all the members of those tribunals had concurred in
judgment upon points resting on local and peculiar laws.
When the House of Lords sits on writs of error only three lords
need be in attendance. No more in fact do attend, and these three
may change daily, and it results in practice that the three noble
lords who ultimately decide that the twelve judges of England
have erred in their opinion of the law were neither of them present at the argument on the writ of error. These facts are asserted
by Lord Brougham, in the face of the House of Lords, and stand
uncontradicted. 2 Chitty's Practice, 587, note 4.
Whatever obloquy may be aimed at the construction of the
Court of Errors in this State, there are features in its constitution
which elevate it most honorably in comparison with that of the
House of Lords.
At least twenty-one members must be present at the hearing and
decision of every case in the Court of Errors, and those members
alone who hear the argument take part in the decision, and it is
doubted whether any period can be referred to in the history of
these two exalted tribunals, since they have had cofxistence, in
which the professional learning and experience in the )NewYork
Court of Errors was not at least equal in amount to that contained
in the English House of Lords.
The decisions of the Couft of Errors are, within the State of
New York, obligatory to the same extent as enactments by positive
law. It no more diminishes their efficiency that the judgment of
one court may be modified or varied by that of its successor, than
the vitality of a statute is impaired, because it is liable to repeal
at the will of the legislature. Such judgments are absolute rules
of decision in all cases to which they apply in the state tribunals,
Hanford v. Artcher, 4 Hill, 271,. Butler v Van Wyck, 1 Hill, 438,
and although, within the doctrines declared by the Supreme Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Note.

In the Matter of Barry.

in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 19, they are not laws in a technical
sense, and as such obligatory upon this court, still, on the inquiry
as to what the law of the State is, such decisions must supply evidence of great weight and cogency
Indeed, what particulars can be regarded as in principle more
local or intraterritorial than those which pprtain to the domestic
institutions of a State-the social and domestic relations of its
citizens, or what could probably be less within the meaning of
Congress, than that in regard to these interesting matters, the
courts of the United States should be empowered to introduce
rules and principles because found in the ancient common law,
which should extinguish or supersede the policy and cherished
usages of a State, authenticated and sanctified as part of her laws
by the judgments of her highest tribunals 9
In my'opinion, the rule indicated by the Supreme Court in Swift
.v Tyson, if not limited strictly to questions of commercial law, does
not embrace the present case, and that the adjudications of the
Court of Errors, prescribing the laws of its citizens in respect to the
custody of infant children resident in the State, and the relative
rights of parents in respect to such children, are rules of decision
in this court m all common law cases touching these questions.
But if not so, and the United States court is to act independently
of all control by the decisions of the local courts, and is to determine for itself what the common- law rule is in relation to such
matters, the judgment of the local tribunal cannot but be of most
imposing weight and significancy as a matter of evidence.
I do not discover that that judgment stands opposed to any
authentic evidence of the common law rule as it existed in England
anterior to our Revolution, or which has ever existed in this State;
and if even a doubt might be raised on that point, the inclination
of this court most assuredly must be to yield to the domestic and
not to the foreign interpretation of the rule.
If it be conceded that the more recent decisions in England
establish the law of that country now to be as claimed by the petitioner, they supply no authority here, further than they correspond
with the law as clearly existing antecedent to 1775. I am not
aware the doctrine has ever been countenanced in the Supreme
Court of the United States that modern decisions in the English
courts, unsanctioned by ancient tradition, are entitled to outweigh
those of state courts in fixing the final laws of the State.

IN

RE BURRUS.

Note. In the Matter of Barry.

The value of the latest decision, the most relied on, that of King
v Gree'nhill, 4 Ad. & El. 624, when brought in competition with those
of the American courts, upon an inquiry into the reason of the law,
is essentially impaired by the declaration of Lord Denman in the
House of Lords, (the judge who pronounced the lecision below,)
that he was ashamed of the necessity which exacted a decision of
that character from a British court, and of a late Lord Chancellor,
on the same occasion, that the rule of law announced by that decision was a disgrace to the English character.
But I do not feel that it is imposed on this court to revise the
subject at large, and determine what is the true xule ofi the common law in this respect.
The United States court in no way acts in supervision of the
state courts. The decisions of these tribunals are independent of
the United States judiciary, and absolute ii themselves, in all
cases not subject to review in the method pointed out by the Judiciary acts. 4 raunch 96,'97. This case is not in that predicament.
The extent of the authority of this court, on the principle of its
orgamzation, is no more than to act concurrently with the state
court upon the subject matter of this petition.
If that concurrence does not import and exact an entire coincidence, if each tribunal acting within its sphere may examine and
declare for itself, independently of the other, what- rule of law shall
govern the decisions, that comity at least due between cobrdinate
courts, if not that intimate and special relation of both to a common
source and standard of law, would demand that neither should rigorously insist upon a principle which would bring it in collision with
the other; the more especielly that the United States courts should
avoid, upon a balanced question, adopting conclusions T.inch, carried into execution, must violate the domestic policy of the State,
settled by the most solemn adjudications of its own judiciary
The alienage of the petitf'oner would not vary this principle,
even if it be conceded that by the laws of his domicil he is entitled as absolutely to the custody of his infant children as to that
of his estate.
No interest, not even one resting in contrac't, is enforced by a
court when it is repugnant to the laws or policy of the place where
the action is prosecuted. Pearsallv Wriglit, 2 MVass. 84, 89, TVermont Bank v. Porter, 5 Day, 316, 320; Bank of Augusta v. Earle,
13 Pet. 519, 589.
voL. cXXXvi-40

OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Note. In the Matter of Barry.

It by no means is an indisputable doctrine of public law, or of
the law of this country, that the father of this infant can. have
here the same legal rights and dominion over it as if born within
the country of his allegiance, for, if so, it might impart to hin
a power abhorrent to the civilization and Christianity of our age,
giving him a dominion no less absolute than one over his chattels,
ammate or inanmate.
I do not, however, go into this topic, nor regard it as having any
important bearing upon the decision now made.
I apprehend it
has been sufficiently shown that neither in England, before our Revolution, nor in this State since, has judgment been rendered under
a habeas corpus in regard to infants, on the acceptation that the
right of the father to their custody was anything in the nature of
property, or so fixed in law as to afford a controlling rule of decision to the court. In the use of the remedy afforded by means of this
writ, the courts have regarded the father as that guardian first to
be looked to, in case a change of custody should be deemed proper,
and the infant was not of competent age to make its own choice of
guardian, but it has been purely m the application of the remedy
and for the protection and interest of the infant, and not in subordination to the legal right of the father, that such award is ever
made.
Nothing is clearer in international law than that a party prosecuting upon the clearest right under the laws of his country must
still take his, remedy in accordance with the law of the court he invokes, without regard to the law of his allegiance, and that his demand of this particular relief is no way aided by the consideration
that it would be awarded him in England or Nova Scotia.
I close this protracted discussion by saying that I deny the writ
of habeas corpus prayed for, because,
(1) If granted, and a return was ma~le admitting the facts stated
m the petition, I should discharge the infant, on the ground that
this court cannot exercise the common law function of parenspatino, and has no common law jurisdiction over the matter,
(2) Because the court has not judicial-cognizaice in the matter
by virtue of any statute of the United States, or,
(3) If such jurisdiction is to be implied,. that then the decision
of the Court of Errors of New York supplies the rule of law, or
furnishes the highest evidence of the common law rule, -which,is
to be the rule of decision in the case, and,

IN RE BURRUS.

627

Note. In the Matter of Barry.

(4) Because, by that rule, the father is not entitled, on the case
made by this petitioner, to take this child out of the custody of
its mother.
Petition dented.

