GIBBONS v. MAHON.
Statement of the Case.

GIBBONS v. MAHON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 16. Argued December 19, 20,1888.-

Decided May 19, 1890.

Under a will bequeathing stock in a corporation and government bonds, in
trust to pay "the dividends of said stock and the interest of said bonds
as they accrue" to a daughter of the testator "during her lifetime, without percentage of commission or diminution of principal," and directing
that upon her death "the said stocks, bonds and income shall revert to the
estate" of the trustee, "without incumbrance or impeachment of waste,"
a stock dividend declared by a corporation which from time to time, before
and after the death of the testator, has invested accumulated earnings in its
permanent works and plant, and which, since his death, has been authorized by statute to increase its capital stock, is an accretion to capital,
and the income thereof only is payable to the tenant for life.

THIS was a bill in equity by Mary Ann Gibbons against
Jane Owen Mahon to compel the transfer to the plaintiff of
shares in the Washington Gaslight Company held by the defendant as trustee under the will of Ann W Smith.. The case
was heard upon bill and answer, by which, and by the acts of
Congress concerning that company, the facts appeared to be
as follows
Mrs. Smith, a widow, and the mother of both parties to this
suit, died March 26, 1865, owning two hundred and eighty
shares in that company, and leaving a last will, dated February
11, 1865, and admitted to probate April 8, 1865, containing
the following bequest
"I hereby give, devise and bequeath to my daughter, Jane
Owen Mahon, wife of David W Mahon, of the city of Washington aforesaid, and to her heirs and assigns, two hundred
and eighty shares of stock of the Washington Gaslight Company, also forty-five shares of stock of the Franklin Insurance
Company, both in the city of Washington aforesaid, also
eight thousand five hundred dollars in government bonds of
the government of the United States of America, said stock
and bonds or any portion of them remaining at my death a

OCTOBER TERf, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

part of my said estate, to have and to hold the same in and
upon the trusts and provisions following That is to say, in
trust for the advantage and behoof of my said daughter, Mary
Ann Gibbons, and that after my decease the said Jane Owen
Mahon, her heirs and assigns, shall cause the dividends of said
stock and the interest of said bonds as they accrue to be paid
to my said daughter, Mary Ann Gibbons, during her lifetime,
without percentage of commission or diminution of principal,
and in case of the death of the said Mary Ann Gibbons, then
the said stocks, bonds and income shall revert to the estate of
my said daughter, Jane Owen Mahon, without incumbrance
or impeachment of waste."
The Washington Gaslight Company was incorporated by
the act of Congress of July 8, 1848, c. 96, with a capital of
$50,000, divided into shares of $20 each. 9 Stat. 722. It
was authorized to increase its capital stock to $350,000 by
the act of August 2, 1852, c. 79, and to $500,000 by the act
of January 3, 1855, c. 22. 10 Stat. 734, 835. At the death
of the testatrix, the capital stock amounted to $500,000, consisting of 25,000 shares of $20 each. By the act of May 24,
1866, c. 97, the capital stock was increased to $1,000,000.
14 Stat. 53.
The company from time to time declared and paid dividends in money upon its stock, and such dividends were paid
by the defendant to the plaintiff.
Before and after the death of Mrs. Smith, and before and
after the passage of the act of 1866, and before November 1,
1868, the company from time to time invested portions of its
net earnings, income and profits in the enlargement and extension of its permanent works and plant employed in its
legitimate business under its charter, and the actual cost of
its works and plant, as shown by its construction account,
amounted on January 1, 1865, to $842,623.02, on January 1,
1866, to $892224.08, on January 1, 1867, to $935,039.55,
on January 1, 1868, to $963,803.37, on July 1, 1868, to
$988,914.84, and on January 1, 1869, to $1,039,287.17, and
amounted, in fact, at the time of the passage of the act of
1866, to not less than $900,000, anc on October 1, 1868, to
more than $1,000,000.

GIBBONS v. MAIION.
Argument for Appellant.

On November 1, 1868, the board of directors of the company adopted the following resolution " Whereas the construction account of this company exceeds one million of
dollars, and as the capital of the company has been increased
by an act of Congress to one million of dollars, therefore be
it resolved, that the increased stock be awarded among the
stockholders, share for share, as they stood on the first of
October, 1868."
On September 29, 1868, the defendant surrendered to the
company the certificate for the two hundred and eighty
shares mentioned in Mrs. Smith's will, and those shares were
transferred on the books of the company to the name of the
defendant, as trustee, and on November 17, 1868, the company made out and delivered to the defendant, as trustee, a
certificate for the five hundred and sixty shares.
The defendint paid to the plaintiff from time to time the
dividends afterwards declared on the five hundred and sixty
shares, but never transferred to her the two hundred and
eighty new shares.
The court dismissed the bill; and delivered an opinion reported in 4 Mackey, 130, and the plaintiff appealed to this
court.
XrA Henry E Dams for appellant.
I. By the terms of Mrs. Smith's will, the appellee holds the
original 280 shares "for the advantage and behoof" of the
appellant, whom the will entitles to receive the dividends of
those shares, as such dividends accrue, during her lifetime.
(a) What are dividends 2
Whether the testator makes use of the expression, "dividends," or "dividends and profits," or "dividends, interest and
profits," or "interest, dividends, profits and proceeds," all of
them come to the same thing, and furnish no circumstance to
found a distinction upon. Eboper v Ross-ter, 1 McClel. 521.
536.
"Dividends,?' as used in the will, is unqualified, it includes,
in its technical sense, as well as in its ordinary and com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

mon acceptation, all distributions to corporators of the profits
of the corporation, whether such distributions are large or
small, or whether made at long or short intervals, and without any regard to the manner or place of their declaration
or mode of payment. Clarkson v Clarkson, 18 Barb. 646, 657.
Dividends, accordingly, may take various forms. The or
dinary form is the distribution of money to shareholders,
but common forms are those known as stock and scrip dividends. If the definition given by the court in Clarkson v
Clacrkson be accepted, as it should be, the question involved
is readily answered By the terms of that definition the appellant is clearly entitled to the 280 new shares, for() The new shares are in effect and in substance a stock
dividend. Daland v Filliams,101 Mass. 571, 574, Rand v
ilubbell, 115 Mass. 461, Commonwealth v Pzttsburg, -Fort
Wayne &c.Railroad Co., 7 4 Penn. St. 83, Bailey v Railroad
Co., 22 Wall. 604, 035, 636.
(c) And the tenant for life of stock is entitled to all dividends declared thereon during his life, irrespective of the time
-when they were earned, provided only that they do not impair the capital of the trust fund. Bates v Jlackmley, 31
]Beavan, 280, Richardson v Rchardson, 75 Maine, 570,
Goodwin v Hardy, 57 Maine, 143, S. C 99 Am. Dec. 758,
Jermazia v lake Skore Railroad Co., 91 N. Y 483. And it
is immaterial whether the dividend be in stock or in money,
any distinction on that score being, in the language of Lord
Eldon, "too thin." Paris v Parts,10 Yes. 185.
IL But the question, though seemingly snnple, has been
much considered by courts, and an examination of the reported cases will reveal much difference upon the subject.
(a) The English adjudications. The leading cases on the
subject in England are Brander v Brander, 4 Yes. 800;
Irving v Houston, 4 Pafon, 521, Parts v Parts, 10 V es.
185, Clayton v Greslam, 10 Ves. 288, TWitts v Steere, 13
Ves. 363, Barclay v Watnewrzgtt, 14 Yes. 66, Price v
Anderson, 15 Sim. 473, Norrzs v Harrson, 2 Madd. 268,
Jiooyoer v Rossiter, 13 Price, 774, S. C. 1 McClel. 527, Cum'ing v Boswell, 2 Jurist (N. S.) 1005, In re Barton's Trust,
L. R. 5'Eq. 238.

GIBBONS v. MAIHON.
Argument for Appellant.

In the light of the earlier English adjudications, the law on
the subject is thus stated in Hill on Trustees, 386 "It is
settled that any extraordinary bonus or addition to the usual
annual income of stock or other property, which is settled in
trust for one for life with remainder over, must be treated as
capital and added to the principal fund. The trustees, therefore, will not be justified in paying over these unusual additions
to the beneficial tenant for life, but they must invest them for
the benefit of all parties." But this statement is qualified in
note 1 to the 4th American edition, and is disowned in Clarkson v Clark on, 18 Barb. 646, above cited, as well as m the
later English cases, also above cited.
(b) The rule established = Massachusetts. If a fund held in
trust to pay the income to one until his death, and then convey the capital to another, includes shares in the stock of a
corporation, shares of additional stock distributed to the trustee as a lawful dividend thereon accrue as capital, although
they represent the net earnings of the corporation. "A
trustee needs some plain principle to guide him, and the cestuss
gue trust ought not to be subjected to the expense of going
behind the action of the directors and investigating the concerns of the corporation, especially if it is out of our jurisdiction. A simple rule is to regard cash dividends, however large,
as income, and stock dividends, however made, as capital.
The court [A.D. 1868] are of opinion that this rule is more in
conformity with the legal and equitable rights of shareholders
-than any other that has been suggested." .Ainot v Paine,
99 Mass. 101, S. C. 96 Am. Dec. 705.
This case has since been followed in Massachusetts. In
1869, it was followed m Daland v .Williams, 101 Mass. 571.
In the same year, in Leland v Hayden, 102 Mass. 542, the
court said "We must regard the _pnnciple as settled that
stock dividends are to be regarded as principal, and cash dividends as income," and, in. 1872, in Rand v, Rubbell, 115
Mass. 461, it was held "By the law of this Commonwealth,
as declared by this court, a dividend made ih new stock is
ordinarily to be deemed capital."
(c) The few Yorke cases. In 1855, James J., delivering

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

the opinion of the court, after doubting the statement in Hill
on Trustees, 386, above quoted, and citing the English cases,
said
"I am not satisfied with these decisions, and there is no
sound principle upn,- which they can be upheld.
"I am satisfied that these decisions will never be followed
in this country, and will be repudiated, if they are not already,
in England.
The stock payment of 60 per cent made
upon this investment was properly dividends, extraordinary in
amounts, not in manner of payment, that being a matter of
policy with the company
'Dividends,' as used in the will, is
unqualified. It includes, in its technical sense as well as in
its ordinary and common acceptation, all distributions to cor
porators of the profits of the corporation, whether such distributions are large or small, or whether made at long or
short intervals, and without any regard to the manner or place
The 60 per
of their declaration or mode of payment.
cent stock dividend, made December 30th, 1850, belonged to
the tenants for life, and the trustees must be decreed to deliver
over to them the said stock or its substitute and all income,
dividend, or increase received thereon, or pay the value thereof." Clarkson v Clarkson, 18 Barb. 646. This was followed
in Simpson v -Moore, 30 Barb. 637, In re WVoodruff's Estate,
Tucker, 58 In re Pollock, 3 Redfield, 100, Whttney v Phoenwv,
4 Redfield, 180.
(d) The rule in Pennsylvanta was laid down in Earp's
Appeal, 28 Penn. St. 368. In Wiltbank's Appeal, 64 Penn.
St. 256, that rule is defined as follows. "The principle estab,
lished in that [Earp's] case is that the earnings or profits of
stock made after death are income and not capital, even though
inform of capital by the issue of new stock. Eguity, seeking
the substance of thzngs, found that the new stock was but a
product and was therefore income. Precmsely so it is here,
equsty discovers the subyect of controversy -is
a mere product, a
rzght bncdental to the stock, and is therefore ncome." See
also lfoss's Appeal, 83 Penn. St. 264, B ddle's Appeal, 99
Penn. St. 278, and Vinton's Appeal, 99 Penn. St. 434.
(e) The rule =n New Jersey. In YTan Doren v Olden, 19 N. T

GIBBONS v. MAHON.
Argument for Appellant.

Eq. 176, S. C. 97 Am. Dec. 650, Chancellor Zabriskie, after citing E AJp's
A4peal, Clarkson v Clarkson and &imnpson v .Moore,
said "The principle upon which these cases are decided I hold
to be the correct one, by which I must be guided in preference
to the early English decisions. That principle is that where
trust funds, of which the income, interest or profits are given
to one person for life, and the principal bequeathed over upon
the death of the life tenant, are invested either by the trustees,
or at. the death of the testator, in stock or shares of an incorporated company, the value of which consists in part of an
accumulated surplus or undivided earnings laid up by the
company, as is frequently the case, such additional value is
part of the capital, that this, as well as the par value of the
shares, must be kept intact for the benefit of the remainderman, but the earnings on such capital, as well as upon the par
value of the shares, belong to the life tenant, and when an
extra dividend is declared out of the earnings or profits of
the company such extra dividend belongs to the life tenant,
unless part of it was earnings carried to account of accumulated profits or surplus earnings at the death of the testator,
or at the time of the investment, if made since his death, in
which case so much must be considered as part of the capital."
This ruling was followed in Asurst v Field, 26 NS.J Eq. 1.
(f) T/ie dectsions tn New .Hampbshre. A testator gave to
his son the income of two shares in a corporation during his
life, the shares, on his decease, to go to the testator's heirs.
$500 had been paid in on each share constituting the original
estate, but by increase in the value of the property of the corporation, the shares were, at the time of -the making of the will,
of the value of about $1500 each, and it appeared that the testator so valued them in making the bequest. The corporation
having made regular dividends of income up to a certain date,
after the decease of the testator, at that time voted to sell its
property and divide the proceeds, which was .done, .ield, m
1846, that the dividends received by the executor after this
vote were to be regarded as dividends of the capital, substituted for the shares, and that -the son was entitled to the income which Thould be derived from.the sums so received, the

OCTOBER TERM , 1889..
Argument for Appellant.

principal, on his decease, belonging to the heirs. Wheeler v
Perry,18 IN.IH. 301. See also Lord v Brooks, 52 N. H1. 72,
Peirce v .Burroughs,58 N. H=.302.
In no other of the United States has the question been considered, except, in 1881, in Georgia, where it is governed by
the code of that State. See Millen v Guerrard,67 Georgia,
284.
An examination of the authorities above cited shows on
how unsound a basis the rule in England and Massachusetts
rests. The intention of the corporation making the dividend
seems to be given paramount consideration in those jurisdictions.
This "intention of the corporation" and the simplicity
claimed for the rule of Minot v Paineare the supports, and
the only supports of the English and Massachusetts rule.
The New Hampshire court emphatically and, as I submit,
most properly denies to corporations the right to make or
change the wills of their stockholders, and the Pennsylvania
court does not scruple at characterizing the "simple rule" of
Massachusetts as "bungling."
If simplicity of the rule to
guide trustees be alone sufficient to support a principle, what
simpler rule can there be than to give the life tenant all
dividends, whether in cash or in stock 2
The true rule is that laid down in Bates v .Mackznley No
matter when a dividend was earned or how long the profits to
be distributed have been accumulating, the person entitled to
the dividends at the time of declaration should have all dividends from profits or earnings without regard to their form.
This is a "simple rule for the guidance of trustees," it avoids
all difficulties as to accounting, preserves the integrity of corporate action, makes no disturbance of corporate management, and, recognizing all individual interests, assures the
harmonious continuance of corporate existence and the unembarrassed exercise of corporate functions. results attainable
on no other principle, and to which all other considerations
should, within due limits, be subordinated so long as corporations hold their place as accredited instruments of industrial
and commercial enterprise not inconsistent with individual

GIBBONS v. MAHON.
Opinion of the Court.

interest. The clear reasoning in Lord v Brooks logically
leads to this position and in its thoroughness refutes all arguments to the contrary
3fr J Huley Ashton for appellee.
Mm. JusTICE GnAY, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented by the claims made in the bill and
answer, and by the arguments of counsel, is whether the two
hundred and eighty new shares of stock in the Washington
Gaslight Company are to be treated as dividends, to the
whole or part of the principal of which the plaintiff isentitled
under the will, or are to be treated as an increase of the capital of the trust fund, and the plaintiff therefore entitled to
receive only the income thereof.
The court below held that the new shares must be treated
as capital, the income only of which was payable to the plaintiff. She contends that the new shares are in the nature of
a dividend, to the whole of which she is entitled, or, if that
position shodld not be maintained, that so much of the new
shares as represents earnings made by the corporation since
the death of the testatrix should be held to be income payable
to her. Upon full consideration of the case, on reason and
authority, this court- is of opinion that the decision below is
correct.
The distinction between the title of a corporation, and the
interest of its members or stockholders, in the property of the
corporation, is familiar and well settled. The ownership of that
property is in the corporation, and not in the holders of shares
of its stock. The interest of each stockholder consists in the
right to a proportionate part of the profits whenever dividends
are declared, by the corporation, during its existence under its
charter, and to a like proportion of the property remaining,
upon the termination or dissolution of the corporation, after
payment of its debts. 'Fan Allen v Assessors, 3 Wall. 573,
584, Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 230, Tennessee

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

v
Fitworth, 117 U S. 129, 136, New' Orleans v Jouston,
119 U S. 265, 277.
Money earned by a corporation remains the property of the
corporation, and does not become the property of the stockholders, unless and until it is distributed among them by the
corporation. The corporation may treat it and deal with it
either as profits of its business, or as an addition to its capital.
Acting in good faith and for the best interests of all concerned,
the corporation may distribute its earnings at once to the
stockholders as income, or it may reserve part of the earnings
of a prosperous year to make up for a possible lack of profits
in future years, or it may retain portions of its earnings and
allow them to accumulate, and then invest them in its own
works and plant, so as to secure and increase the permanent
value of its property
Which of these courses shall be pursued is to be determined
by the directors, with due regard to the condition of the company's property and affairs as a whole, and, unless in case of
fraud or bad faith on their part, their discretion in this respect
cannot be controlled by the courts, even at the suit of owners
of preferred stock, entitled by express agreement with the
corporation to dividends at a certain yearly rate, "in prefer
ence to the payment of any dividend on the common stock,
but dependent on the profits of each particular year, as declared by the board of directors." -New York, Lake Ere d
Western Railroadv Nicka, 119 U S. 296, 304, 307.
Reserved and accumulated earnings, so long as they are
held and invested by the corporation, being part of its corpo-,
rate property, it follows that the interest therein, represented
by each share, is capital, and not income, of that share, as
between the tenant for life and the remainderman, legal or
equitable, thereof.
Whether the gains and profits of a corporation should be
so invested and apportioned as to increase the value of each
share of stock, for the benefit of all persons interested in it,
either for a term of life or of years, or by way of remainder
in fee, or should be distributed and paid out as income, to
the tenant for life or for years, excluding the remainder.

GIBBONS v. MAHON.
Opinion of the Court.

man from any participation therein, is a question to be determined by the action of the corporation itself, at such
times and in such manner as the fair and honest administration of its whole property and business may require or permit,
and by a rule applicable to all holders of like shares of its
stock, and cannot, without producing great embarrassment
and inconvenience, be left open to be tried and determined by
the courts, as often as it may be litigated between persons
claiming successive interests under a trust created by fhe will
of a single shareholder, and by a distinct and separate investigation, through a master in chancery or otherwise, of the affairs
and accounts of the corporation, as of the dates when the provisions of the will of that shareholder take effect, and with
regard to 'his shares only
In. ascertaining the rights of such persons, the intention of
the testator, so far as manifested by him, must of course control, but when be has given no special direction upon the
question as to what shall be considered principal and what
income, he must be presumed to have had in view the lawful
power of the corporation over the use and apportionment of
its earnings, and to have intended that the determination of
that question should depend upon the regular action of the
corporation with regard to all its shares.
Therefore,.when a distribution of earnings is made by a corporation among its stockholders, the question whether such
distribution is an apportionment.of additional stock representing capital, or a division of profits and' income, depends upon
the substance and intent of the action of the corporation, as
manifested by its vote or resolution, and ordinarily a dividend
declared in stock is to be deemed capital, and a' dividend in
money is to be. deemed income, of 'each share.
A stock dividend really takes nothing from the property of
the corporation, and adds nothing to the interests of the shareholders. Its property is not diminished, and their interests
are not increased. After such a dividend, as before, the corporation has the title in all the corporate property, the aggregate interests therein of all the shareholders are represented
by the whole number of shares, and the proportional interest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of each shareholder remains the same. The only change is in
the evidence which represents that interest, the new shares
and the original shares together representing the same propor
tional interest that the original shares represented before the
issue of new ones.
In Bailey v Railroad Co., 22 Wall. 604, cited for the plaintiff, the point decided was that certificates, issued by a railroad
corporation to its stockholders as representing earnings which
had been used in the construction and equipment of its road,
and payable, at the option of the company, with dividends like
those paid.on the stock, were within that provision of the inter
nal revenue laws, which enacted that any railroad company
"that may have declared any dividend in scrip or money due
or payable to its stockholders," "as part of the earnings, profits, income or gains of such company, and all profits of such
company carried 'to the account of any fund, or used for
construction, shall be subject to and pay a tax of five per
centum on the amount of all such" "dividends or profits,
whenever and wherever the same shall be payable, and to
whatsoever party or person the same may be payable." Acts
of June 30, 1864, c. 173, ยง 12, 13 Stat. 284, July 13, 1866,
c. 184, ยง 9,14 Stat. 138, 139. The question at issue was not between the owners of successive interests in particular shares,
but between the corporation and the government, and depended
upon the terms of a statute carefully framed to prevent corporations from evading payment of the tax upon their earnings.
The opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Clifford, though containing some general expressions which, taken by themselves,
might seem to ignore the settled distinction, (affirmed by this
court in earlier and later cases above cited,) between the property of the corporation and the interests of the shareholders,
yet explicitly recognized that "net earnings of such a company
may be expended in constructing or equipping the railroad, or
in the purchase of real estate or other properties," and "may
be distributed in dividends of stock or of scrip or of money,"
.that"purchasers of stock have a right to claim and receive all
dividends subsequently declared, no matter when the fund appropriated for the purpose was earned ," that, "as a general

GIBBONS v. M ARON.
opinion of 'the Court.

rule, stock dividends, even when they represent net earnings,
become at once a part of the capital of the company," and that
"such a dividend, if earned and declared, necessarily increases
the value of the old stock, if new stock is not issued, and in that
mode reaches substantially the same result." 22 Wall. 635-637.
In Great Britain, it is well settled that- where a corporation,
whether authorized or unauthorized by law to increase its
capital stock, accumulates and invests part of its earnings,
and afterwards apportions them among its shareholders as
capital, the amount so apportioned must be deemed an accretion to the capital of each share, the income of which only is
payable to a tenant for life.
From the beginning of this century, it has been established,
by decisions of the Court of Chancery in England, and of the
House of Lords on appeal from Scotland, that where a bank,
having no power by law to increase its capital stock, has
used its accumulated profits as floating capital, and invested
them in securities which can be- turned into cash at pleasure,
an extraordinary dividend or bonus declared out of such
profits is capital, and not income, of each share, as between
owners of the life interest and of the interest in remainder
therein, ~ithout inquiring into the time when the profits -were
actually earned. B'ander v B'ander, 4 Yes. 800, I'vmg
v. Roustoun, 4 Paton, 521, Cuning v Boswell, 2 Jurist
(N. S.) 1005, 1008, S. C. 28 Law Times Rep. 344, 1 Paterson, 652. In 19vung v Roustoun, Lord Eldon (Lord -Rosslyn and Lord Alvanley concurring) said that if an owner of
bank stock "gives the life interest of his estate to any one,
it can scarcely be his meaning that the liferenter should run
away with a bonus that may have been accumulating on the
floating capital for half a century," and that to take an
account of the precise amount of profits which bad accumulated before and after the commencement of the life interest
in particular shares, would lead to inconveniences which
would be intolerable. 4 Paton, 530, 531. In Cumqng v
Boswell,. above cited, and relied on by the present plaintiff,
the person held entitled -to bonuses declared on bank stock
was, as stated in the judgment delivered. by Lord Cranworth,
VOL. CxxxWi-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"not a liferenter but an absolute fiar," in other words, not a
mere tenant for life, but an owner in fee, although his estate
was determinable by his death without issue.
It is unnecessary, for the purposes of this case, to consider
how far the English decisions upon the question whether a
dividend in money, not declared to be made out of accumulated earnmgs should be considered as capital or as income,
can be reconciled with each other, or with sound principle.
But there are two recent cases of great authority, concerning stock dividends, which directly bear upon the question before us.
In one of those cases, shares in a steam navigation company were settled by their owner upon trust to pay "the interest, dividends, shares of profits or annual proceeds" to a
woman during her life, and after her death in trust for her
children. The directors, acting within the scope of their
authority, retained part of a half-year's profits, and applied it
to pay for new boats, and the company passed a resolution
to issue to existing shareholders new shares representing the
money so applied. It was argued that "the company had no
power to compel the tenant for life to risk any more in the
venture than the shares originally held, and could not be
allowed for themselves, by declaring or withholding a dividend
out of the profits, to alter the rights as between tenant for
life and remainderman." But Vice Chancellor Wood (after
wards Lord Chancellor ilatherlev) held otherwise, and said
"As long as the company have the profits of the half-year in
their hands, it is for them to say what they will do with it,
subject, of course, to the rules and regulations of the company" "The dividend to which a tenant for life is entitled
is the dividend which the company chooses to declare. And
when the company meet and say that they will not declare a
dividend, but will carry over some portion of the half-year's
earnings to the capital account, and turn it into capital, it is
competent for them,.I apprehend, to do so, and when this is
done, everybody is bound by it, and the tenant for life of
those shares cannot complain. The only mode in which a
tenant for life could act would be to use his influence with his

GIBBONS v. MAHON.
Opinion of the Court.

trustees as to their votes with reference to the proposed arrangement." "If a man has his shares placed in settlement,
he gives his trustbes, in whose names they stand, a power of
voting, and he must use his influence to get them to vote as
he wishes. But where the company, by a majority of their
votes, have said that they will not divide this money, but turn
it all into capital, capital it must be from that time. I think
that is the true principle, and I must hold that these additional shares formed part of the capital fund under the settlement, and went to the children, and not to the tenant for life
(their mother)." Barton's Truiist, L. R.5 Eq. 238, 243-245.
In the most recent English case on the subject, William
Bouch bequeathed to his executor, in trust for his widow for
life, and after her death to the executor, his personal estate,
including shares in an iron company, whose directors had
power, before recommending a dividend, to set apart out of
the profits such sums as they thought proper as a reserved
fund, for meeting contingencies; equalizing dividends or repairing or maintaining the works. Four years after the testator's
death, the company., upon the recommendation of the directors, and out of a fund so reserved in the testator's lifetime,
and of undivided profits, about half of which accrued before
his death, made a bonus dividend, and an allotment of new
shares, with liberty to each shareholder to apply the bonus
dividend in payment for the new shares. Bouch's executor
took the new shares and applied the bonus dividend in payment therefor. The House of Lords, reversing the judgment
of the Court of Appeal, and restoring an order of Mr. Justice
Kay, held that the corporation did not pay or intend to pay
any sum as a dividend, but- intended to and did appropriate
the undivided profits as an increase of the capital stock, that
the bonus dividend was therefore capital of the testator's
estate, and the widow was not entitled either to the bonus or
to the new shares. The difference of opinion was not as to the
general principle which should govern, but only as to its applicatibn to the action of the corporation in the particular case.
The House of Lords fully approved the statements of the general,
principle by Vice Chancellor Wood in Ba'ton's Trust, above

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

cited, and by Lord Justice Fry, in delivering the judgment of
the Court of Appeal, as follows. "When a testator or settlor
directs or permits the subject of his disposition to remain as
shares or stock in a company which has the power either of
distributing its profits as dividend, or of converting them into
capital, and the company validly exercises this power, such
exercise of its power is binding on all persons interested under
him, the testator or settlor, in the shares, and consequently
what is paid by the company as dividend goes to the tenant
for life, and what is paid by the company to the shareholder
as capital, or appropriated as an increase of the capital stock
in the concern, enures to the benefit of all who are interested
in the capital. In a word, what the company says is income
shall be income, and what it says is capital shall be. capital."
"1Inmost, if not in all cases, the inquiry as to the time when
the profits were earned by the company is an immaterial one
as between the tenant for life and remainderman. Their
rights have been made dependent on the legitimate action of
the company, and" (subject to any rights arising from the law
of apportionment, which was not in question) "are determined
by the time, not at which the profits are earned by the company, but at [by] the time at which they are by the action of
Sp'oule v
the company made divisible among its members."
Bouct, 29 Oh. D. 635, 653, 658, 659, Bouch v S.proule, 12
App. Cas. 385, 397, 402, 407, 408.
The same principle was established in -Massachusetts before
the case of Sproule v Bouch had come before the courts of
England. Atkins v Alhree, 12 Allen, 359, -Minot v Paine,
99 Mass. 101, Dalandv Williams, 101 Mass. 571, Leland v
.ayden, 102 Mass. 542, Rand v Hubbell, 115 Mass. 461,
Gifford v 1T7omyson, 115 Mass. 478. And in Connecticut,
Rhode Island and Maine, a dividend of new shares, representing accumulated earnings, is held to be capital and not income.
Brnlney v- arou, 50 Conn. 66, B'own'8 petfttion, 14 R. I. 371,
Rschardeson v Richardson, 75 Maine, 570, 574.
In New York, the recent judgments of the Court of Appeals
appear to have practically overruled the decisions of the lower
courts in Clarkson v Clarkson, 18 Barb. 646, Simpson v

GIBBONS v. MAHON
Opinion of the Court.

xMore, 30 Barb. 637, Woodruf 's EWtate, Tucker, 58, and In re
Pollock, 3 Redfield, 100, cited in behalf of the plaintiff, and to
have settled the law of that State in accordance with that of
England and of Massachusetts.
In Hyatt v Allen, 56 N. Y 553, the defendant, by a contract made August 11, 1871, under which he transferred to the
plaintiffs certain stock in a manufacturing corporation, agreed
to pay them "all profits and dividends of and upon the stock
up to the first day of January, 1872." In April, 1872, the
corporation declared a dividend of fifteen dollars a share, five
sixteenths of which were found by a referee to have been
derived from the increase in value of its property between
August 11, 1871, and January 1, 1872, and the court below
gave judgment for the plaintiff for that proportion of -thedividend. But the Court of Appeals reversed the judgment, and
said "
shareholder in a corporation has no legal title to
the property or profits of the corporation until a division is
made." "When, therefore, a contract is made in relation to
dividends or profits, it must be deemed to have reference to
dividends or profits to be ascertained and declared by the particular company, and not to growing profits from day to day,
or month to month, -tobe ascertained upon an investigation by
third persons, or courts of justice, into the accounts and trans56 N. Y 557, 558.
actions of the company"
In Willams v Western Unwqo Tlegrqah Co., 93 N. Y. 162,
the Court of Appeals, in the course of an elaborate discussion
of the right of a corporation, when unrestrained by statute,
to make a stock dividend, said "When a corporation has a
surplus, whether a dividend shall be made, and if made, how
much it shall be, and when and where it shall be payable, rest
in the fair and honest discretion of the directors uncontrollable
by the courts." "Whether they shall be made in cash or
property must also rest in the, discretion. of the directors." "Desiring to use the surplus and add it to thepermanent capital of the company, and having lawfully
created shares of stock, they could issue to the stockholders
such shares to represent their respective interests in such
surplus." "After a stock dividend a corporation has just as

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is just as solvent and just
as capable of meeting all demands upon it. After such a
dividend the aggregate of the stockholders own no more
interest in the corporation than before. The whole number
of shares before the stock dividend represented the whole
property of the corporation, and after the dividend they
represent that and no more. A stock dividend does not
distribute property, but simply dilutes the shares as they
existed before." 93 N. Y 192, 189.
Finally, in .Kernockan'sCase, 104 N. Y 618, the Court of
Appeals applied the same rules as between the remainderman
and the person entitled for life to the income of shares bequeathed in trust, rejected the test of determining what part
of a cash dividend should be deemed principal and what part
income by ascertaining how much was earned before and how
much after the death of the testator; approved the general
principle laid down in the cases of Barton's Trust, L. iR. 5 Eq.
238, 245, and Sproule v Bouch, 29 Oh. D. 635, 653, above
cited, and said "From the shares in question no income
could accrue, no profits arise to the holder, until ascertained
and declared by the company and allotted to the shareholder,
and that act should be deemed to have been in the mind of
the testator, and not the earnings or profits as ascertained by
a third person, or a court, upon an investigation of the business and affairs of the company, either upon an inspection of
their books or otherwise." "The rule is a reasonable and
proper one, which limits the rights of a stockholder to profits
by the action of the managers of a corporation or company
It is their sole and exclusive duty to divide profits and declare
dividends whenever, in their judgment, the condition of the
affairs of the corporation renders it expedient, and it would
lead to great embarrassment and confusion if a court should
undertake to interfere with their discretion so long as they do
not go beyond the scope of their powers and authority" 104
N. Y 628, 629.
In Eai''s Appeal, 28 Penn. St. 368, on the other hand, the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania declined to follow the early
English cases, and adopted the rule, that where a corporation,
much property as it had before.

GIBBONS v. MAHON.
Opmion of the Court.

after having accumulated large surplus -profits for many years
before and since the death of the testator, increased its capital stock, and issued additional shares to the stockholders, so
much of the surplus profits as had accumulated in the lifetime
of the testator should be deemed capital, and so 'much as had
accumulated since his death should be deemed income, and in
Wiltbank's Appeal, 61 Penn. St. 256, where a corporation
voted to increase its capital stock by an issue of new shares
to be subscribec and paid for by the stockholders, and' a trustee
holding shares sold the right to take some new shares, and
took others and sold them at an'advance, that rule was carried
so far as to hold thatthe sums so ieceived by the trustee were
income of the old shares, for the reason that 'the right to subscribe to new shares, the court thought, "was not a part of the
capital of the old stock, but a mere product of 'an advantage
belonging to it," " a right incidental to the stock and therefore
income." The rule upon which those two cases proceeded has
since been treated as settled in Pennsylvania, although there
has been some difficulty, if not inconsistency, in applying
it, and in one case Mr. Justice Paxson, now Chief Justice
of Pennsylvania, spoke of both those cases as exceptional
and depending on peculiar circumstances.
Moss's Appeal,
83 Penn. St. 264, 269, 270; Btddle's Appeal, 99' Penn. St.
278, T'inton's Appeal, 99 Penn. St. 434. The only other
States, so far as we are informed, n which the Pennsylvania
rule prevails, are New Jersey and New Hampshire. 'Fan
Doren v Olden, 4 0. E. Green, 176, AshAurst v Field, 11
C. E. Green, 1, Van Blarcom v .Dager,4'Stew Eq. 783, 793,
Lord v Brooks, 52 N. 1-.72, Pe re v Burroughs, 58 N. H.
302, 303. Upon the grounds already stated, that rule appears
to us to be open to grave objections, both in principle and in
application, as well as opposed to the weight of authority
In the case at bar, the testatrix bequeathed to her daughter,
Jane Owen Afahon, two hundred and eighty shares of stock
in the Washington Gaslight Company, as well as some shares
in an insurance company and bonds of the United States, "in
trust for the advantage -and behoof of"' her daughter, Mary
Ann Gibbons, and directed that after the decease of the tes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tatrix the trustee should "cause the dividends of said stock
and the interest of said bonds, as they accrue, to be paid to
my said daughter, Mary Ann Gibbons, during her lifetime,
without percentage of commission or diminution of principal.
And in case of the death of the said Mary Ann Gibbons, then
the said stock, bonds and income shall revert to the estate of
my said daughter, Jane Owen Mahon, without mcumbraice
or impeachment of waste."
Upon t1ie face of the will, it is manifest that the testatrix
used the word "dividends" as having the same scope and
meaning as "income " and "interest," and nothing more, and
intended that the plaintiff, as equitable legatee for life, should
take the income, and the income only, of the shares owned by
the testatrix at the time of her death, and that the whole
capital of those shares, unimpaired, should go to the defendant, as legatee in remainder.
The admitted facts present the following state of things
The accumulated earnings of the company were, kept undivided, and actually added to the capital of the corporation,
by investing them from time to time in its permanent works
and plant, until the value of the works and plant amounted to a
million dollars, no owner of particular shares, or of any interest therein, had the right to compel the company to divide or
apportion those earnings, and while they remained so undivided and invested, the capital stock of the company was
increased to the same amount by the act of Congress of May
24, 1866. The greater part of the earnings in question had
been so invested before the making of -the will and the death
of the testatrix in 1865, a still larger proportion before the
passage of the act of Congress of 1866, and the whole before
the resolution of the directors of November 1, 1868, under
which the new shares were issued to the defendant, and in
which it was recited, in accordance with the truth, that the
construction account of the company exceeded $1,000,000, and
that its capital had been increased by act of Congress to that
amount, and it was therefore "resolved, that the increased
stock be awarded among the stockholders, share for share, as
they stood on the 1st of October, 1868."

GIBBONS v. MAHON.
Opinion of the Court.

To hold the plaintiff to be entitled to the whole of the new
shares issued to the defendant would be to allow the plaintiff
the exclusive benefit of earnings, the greater part of which had
accrued and bad been invested by the company as capital
before her interest began, and would be contrary to all the
authorities. To award to her a proportion of those shares,
based upon an account of how much of those earnings actually
accrued after the death of the testatrix, would be to substitute
the estimate of the court for the discretion of the corporation,
lawfully exercised through its directors, and would be open to
the practical inconveniences already stated.
The resolution is clearly an apportionment of the new
shares as representing capital, and not a Aistribution or division of inicome. As well observed by Mr. Justice. James,
delivering the opinion of the court below" "Certificates of
stock are simply the representative of the interest which the
stockholder has in the capital of the corporation. Before the
issue of these two hundred and eighty new shares, this trustee
held precisely the same interest in this increased plant in the
capital of the corporation, that she held afterwards. She
merely had a new representative of an interest that she already
owned, and which was not increased by the issue of the new
shares. A dividend is something with which the corporation
parts, but it parted with nothing in issuing this new stock.
It simply gave a new evidence of ownership which already
existed. They were not m any sense, therefore, dividends
for which this trustee had to account to the cestuz qu rust.
She stood after the issue of the new shares just as she had
stood before, and the trustee was obliged to treat them just
as she did, namely, as a part of the original, and to pay the
dividends to the cedstu quo trus8t." 4 Mackey, 136
Decree afjirmed.
M1: JusTicE BREWER, not having been a member of the
court when this case was argued, took no part in the decision.

