IN

RE PALLISER.

Statement of the Case.

IN RE PALLISER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1538. Argued May 1, 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

A sale by a postmaster of postage stamps on credit is a violation of the act
of June 17, 1878, c. 259, § 1, forbidding him to " sell or dispose of them
except for cash."
Sending a letter to a postmaster, asking him whether, if the writer of the
letter will send him five thousand circulars in addressed envelopes, he
will put postage stamps on them and send them out at the rate of one
hundred daily and promising him, if he will do so, to pay to him the price
of the stamps, is a tender of a cointract for the payment of money to the
postmaster, with intent to induce him to sell postage stamps on credit
and in violation of his duty and is punishable under § 5451 of the Revised
Statutes.
The offence of tenaering a contract for the payment of money in a letter
mailed in one district and addressed to a public officer in another, to
induce him to violate his official duty, may be tried in the district in
which the letter is received by the officer.

CHARLES PALLISER, being detained by the United States marshal for the Southern District of New York, under a warrant
from a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States
for that district, obtained from that court a writ of habeas
corpus, as well as a writ of certiorar, to the marshal and commissioner, both returnable at a stated term of the court, in
obedience to which the commissioner returned a record of proceedings had before him under § 1014 of the Revised Statutes,
which enacts that "for any crime or offence against the
United States the offender may," by any commissioner of the
Circuit Court, "be arreste7 and imprisoned, or bailed, as the
case may be, for trial before such court of the United States
as by law has cognizance of the offence," and that where any
offender "is committed in any district other than that where
the offence is to be tried," a warrant may be issued by the
District Judge and executed by the marshal of that district,
"for his removal to the district where'the trial -is to be had."
The proceedings stated in the return were as follows:
First. The complaint, of which the following is a copy
VOL. cxxxv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"United States of America, Southern District of New
York, ss. John I. Bario, being duly sworn, deposes and says
that he is an inspector of the Post Office Department, that
on October 23d, 1888, Charles Palliser of the city and State
of New York, then and there-doing business under the name
and style of Palliser, Palliser & Co., at Old Lyme, m the
county of New London, in the State and District of Connecticut, with force and arms unlawfully and wilfully did
tender to one W R. De Wolf, who then and there was and
thereafter continued to be until the 4th day of March, 1889,
a postmaster of the United States at a certain post office
known as Black Hall, in said county of New London, a certain
contract in the words and figures following'N ew York, October 23, 1888.
'Postmaster, Black Hall, Conn.
' Dear Sir We desire in each county a place through which
to send out mail matter, as we want to reach every business
man, mechanic and real-estate owner in every State by circular.
If we ship to you from our printing department, located in the
country in your State, say 5000 or 10,000 circulars in envelopes,
and each addressed, will you give the same your careful
attention, sending out daily 50 to 100 during the coming
months until they are all out, and then render us statement of
same, with account for stamps used, and we will remit. We
are doing this at other general store post-offices in adjoining
counties to yours, and it is perfectly legitimate, and we await
your reply in addressed and stamped envelope enclosed herewith, as, if you cannot attend to same, we must at once send
elsewhere.
'Yours very truly,
'PALLISER, PALLIsER & Co.'

with the intent of him, the said Palliser, to induce him, the
said De Wolf, as such postmaster, to do certain acts in violation of his lawful duty as such postmaster- that is to say,
to sell him, the said Palliser, postage stamps of the Urited
States otherwise than for cash, to wit, upon the credit of said
Palliser, against the peace of the United States and contrary

IN RE PALLISER.
Statement of the Case.

to the statutes thereof in such case made and provided.
Deponent further says that said Charles Palliser is now
within the Southern District of New York.
"11JoiH. BAio.
"Subscribed and sworn to before me this 27th day of September, 1889.
"Joim A. SHIELDS, U S. Commissioner."
Second. The warrant of arrest, dated September 27, 1889,
reciting the substance of the complaint, and that it had been
satisfactorily proved to the commissioner "that the said
Charles Palliser is now within the Southern District of New
York."
Third. The bringing of the prisoner before the commissioner, and his discharge on bail pending his examination.
Fourth. The evidence taken before the commissioner, tending to prove the following facts Palliser was a member of
the firm of Palliser, Palliser & Co., architects and publishers
of works on building, having their principal place of business
in the city of New York, and a printing-office at Bridgeport
in the State of Connecticut. The letter set forth in the complaint was signed and mailed by Palliser at New York in a
sealed envelope, and was received at Black Hall in the
county of New London and State of Connecticut by De Wolf,
postmaster at that place, who was a postmaster of the fourth
class, receiving no salary, and compensated upon the basis of,
among other things, the amount of stamps cancelled at his
office. Act of -March 3, 1883, c. 142, § 2, 22 Stat. 602. At
the same time, Palliser sent similar letters from New York
or Bridgeport to many other postmasters of the same class
in Connecticut. About a fortnight afterwards, De Wolf
received by freight a box of circulars; and on November 26,
1888, he sent by mail to Palliser, Palliser & Co., at the city
of New York a reply to their letter in these words "Gentlemen Have received a case of circulars from you, which I did
not order, .as cannot handle them. They are here subject to
your order. Take notice of see. 515 of postal laws and regulationsi 1887.
Yours, etc.,
"1W R. DE Woix, P M."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Petitioner.

Fifth. An order of the commissioner, dated November 26,
1889, committing the prisoner, upon his surrender by his bail,
to the custody of the marshal.
Sixth. The final -order of the commissioner, dated December
3, 1889, by which, after reciting the arrest and examination,
and "it.appearing to me from the testimony offered that
there is probable cause to believe the said Charles Palliser
guilty of the offence charged in said warrant, the said Charles
Palliser is hereby committed for trial at the District of Connecticut, the district in which the offence is alleged to have
been committed, and he is hereby remanded to the custody of
the United States marshal for the Southern District of New
York until the warrant for his removal shall issue by the
United States District Judge for the Southern District of
New York, or he be otherwise dealt with according to law"
The record transmitted to this court, after setting forth the
proceedings above stated, further set forth 1st. An opinion
of the Circuit Judge, filed December 3, 1889, treating the
case as before him, and not before the Circuit Court, and
directing the writ of habeas corpus to be dismissed, 2d. An
order of the Circuit Court, at a stated term held on the same
day, ordering the writ of habeas cog-pus to be dismissed and
the prisoner remanded to the custody of the marshal, 3d. An
appeal from that order to this court.
_Mr Roger _71ster for the petitioner.
I. The sending of the letter described in the complaint
did not constitute a crime, even if it were unlawful for the
postmasters to sell postage stamps upon credit.
(1) The circular contains no offer upon the part of Mr.
Palliser to send the circulars in case the postmasters should
agree to sell the stamps for them on credit.
(2) The request of a public officer to aid the party making
the request in the performance of an act in violation of such
officer's duty, through which each will make a profit, is not
the offer of a bribe. For the principles for construing such
statutes see Hardingv Stokes, 1 M. & W 35- Peoplev ith,
28 Hun, 626, People v 1,:nersoa, 6 Conn. Criin. Rep. (N.Y.)

IN RE PALLISER.
Argument for Petitioner.

157, -)unn v. Peoyle, 29 N. Y 523, Commonrwealth v Willard, 22 Pick. 476, State v Hopkins, 4 Jones N. C. 305,
1?awles v State, 15 Texas, 581, Stabler v Commonwealth, 95
Penn. St. 318, Stamyler v Commonwealth, 7 Bush, 612.
II. The sale of postage stamps upon credit is not a violation
of a postmaster's official duty The government is amply protected by his bond. Rev. Stat. § 3834. This is a penal statute
and must be construed strictly See The Enterpinse, 1 Paine,
32, Commonwealth v Standard Oil Co., 101 Penn. St. 119,
Commonwealth V Nartm, 17 Mass. 359, United States v. Shel
don, 2 Wheat. 119, United States v Reese, 92 U. S. 214, Henderson v Buse, 3 Starke, 158, Wells v Porter, 2 Bing. N. C.
722 Thomas v. Stevenson, 2. El. & Bi. 108, Coe v Lawrance,
1. El. & Bi. 516, Broadhead v. Holdsworth, 2 Ex. D. 321,
Southwestern Railroad Co. v Cohen, 49 Georgia, 627, St.
Louss Type Foundry v Unton Printing Co., 3 Missouri
App. 142, Roffman v John Eancock Ins. Co., 92 U. S.
161, United States v Williamson, 26 Fed. Rep. 690, United
States v -Douglass,33 Fed. Rep. 381.
III. The District Court of Connecticut has no jurisdiction to
try Mr. Palliser for the offence charged against him. United
States v Guiteau, 1 Mackey, 498. The offence was complete
when the letter was mailed. The fact that the person to
whom it was addressed lived in Connecticut makes no difference. Mr. Palliser has a constitutional right to a trial m the
Southern District of New York, where he resides and is known.
The Sixth Amendment to the Constitution is as follows
"In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury'of the State
and District wherein the crime shall have been committed,
which district shall have been previously ascertained by law,
and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation,
to be confronted with the witnesses against him, to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to
have the assistance of counsel for his defence." This amendment is to be construed liberally in view of its history and the
rights which it is designed to protect. Boyd v United States,
116 U. S. 616.

OCTQBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It is supplementary to a clause of the Constitution as originally ratified in section 2 of Article II.
"The trial of all
crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury, and
such trial shall be held in the State where the said crime shall
have been committed."
These constitutional provisions cannot be nullified by any
statute of the United States. Consequently, if section 731 of
the Revised Statutes conflicts with-them, it is unconstitutional
and void.
But. that statute does not cover the case at bar. Mr.
Palliser's alleged" crime was complete when the letter was
mailed in New York. United States v Tforrall, 2 Dall. 384,
United States v B'tclford, 4 Blatchford, 337, United States v
Plympton, 4 Cranch C. C. 309, .Dana's Case, 7 Benedict, 1,
United States v Comerford, 25 Fed. Rep. 902, State v Bunkey-, 38 Kansas, 737, Untted States v Britton, 2 Mason, 64,
Ripl ey v State, 9 Humphrey, 646.
-Hr Solicitor General opposing.
MR. JusTicu GrAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Upon the record before us, the final order dismissing the
writ of habeas corpus, and remanding the prisoner to the custody of the marshal, appears to have been a decision of the
Circuit Court at a stated term, and therefore clearly subject
to an appeal, to this court, under the act of March 3, 1885,
c. 353. 23 Stat. 437, Carper v Fitzgerald,121 U. S. 87.
But he was rightly remanded to custody, because the return
shows that he was charged with a crime agaihst the laws of
the United States and within the jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States for the District of Connecticut.
By section 5451 of the Revised Statutes, "every person who
promises, offers or gives, or causes or procures to be promised,
offered or given, any money or other thing of value, or makes
or tenders any contract, undertaking, obligation, gratuity or
security for the payment of money, or for the delivery or
conveyance of anything of value to any officer of the United

I R1

PALLISER.

Opifilon of the Court.

States," "'with intent to influence him to commit or aid in
committing, or to collude in or allow any fraud, or make
opportunity for the commission of any fraud on the United
States, or to inducd him to do or omit to do any act in violation of his lawful duty, shall be pumshed" by fine and
imprisonment.
By the act of June 17, 1878, c. 259, § 1, "'no postmaster of
any class, or other person connected with the postal service,
entrusted with the sale or custody of postage stamps, stamped
envelopes or postal cards, shall use or dispose of them in the
.payment of debts or in the purchase of merchandise or other

salable articles, or pledge or hypothecate the same, or sell or
dispose of them except for cash," on pain of being- deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished accordingly 20 Stat.
141.
By this statute, postmasters are peremptorily forbidden, not
only to dispose of postage stamps in the payment of debts or
in. the purchase of commodities, pr to pledge them, but to "sell,
or dispose of them except for cash." The word "cash" in this
statute, as in common speech, means ready money, or money
in hand, either in current coin or other legal tender, or in
bank bills or checks paid and received as money, and does not
include promises to pay money in the future. A sale on
credit is not, ordinarily speaking, and in the absence of any
evidence of usage; a sale for cash, within the meaning of that
word'as used in statutes or contracts. .M-Xuler v .Yorton, 132
U. S. 501, Bl'ms v Arnold, 8 Vermont, 252, Stewa'd v
&udder, 4 Zabriskie, 96, Foley v .Mason, 6 Maryland, 37,
Riaw v Wilson, 28 Grattan, 165, 175., Farrv Sims, Rich.
Eq. Cas. 122, 131, feng v Houser,.13 Rich. Eq. 210, 213.
The p titioner relies on the following passage in an opinion
delivered by Mr. Justice Swayne "Life insurance is a cash
business. Its disbursements are all in money, and its receipts
must necessarily be m the same medium. This is the universal
usage and rule of all such companies." Hoffman v Hancock
Ins. Co., 92 U. S..161, 164. But the only point decided m that
case was that an agent of an .insurance- company could not,
unless authorized by the company, accept personal. property as

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

money in payment of a -premium, no question arose or was
considered as to the premium note, and it cannot reasonably
be inferred that the learned justice meant to intimate that a
premium note was cash or money, before the amount thereof
was paid by the insured and received by the insurance company according to the terms of their contracts.
The substance and effect of the letter written and sent by
the petitioner, in behalf of himself and his partners, to De Wolf
as postmaster, was to ask him whether, if they should send
him from five to ten thousand circulars m addressed envelopes,
he would put postage stamps on them and send -them out, at
the rate of fifty to one hundred daily, and to promise him
that, if he would do so, and would render them a statement
of his doings and an account of the stamps used, they would
remit to him the price of the stamps. If we take five thousand,
the smallest number of circulars proposed to be sent by the
petitioner to the postmaster, and one hundred, the largest
number suggested to be sent out by the postmaster daily, it
would require fifty days for the postmaster to send out the
circulars; and the petitioner would thus be allowed an average
credit. of at least twenty-five days on his payments to the postmaster for five thousand postage stamps, and. the postmaster
would receive and retain a commission on the sale of as 'many
stamps, which neither he nor any other postmaster would
retain if the circulars were mailed by the petitioner at the postoffice in New York or any other post-office where the postmaster was paid by a salary
If this letter was not an offer of money to the postmaster, It
was clearly a tender of a contract for the payment of money
to him, with intent to induce him to sell postage stamps
for credit, in violation of his lawful duty, and therefore
came within § 5451 of the Revised Statutes, above quoted. A
promise to a public officer, that if he will do a certain unlawful act he shall be paid a certain compensation, is an offer
to bribe him to do, the unlawful act, and an offer of a contract to pay money to a postmaster for an unlawful sale by
him of postage stamps on credit is -not the less within the
statute, because the portion of that money which he would

IN RE PALLISER.
Opinion of the Court.

ultimately have the right to retain, by way of commission,
from the United States, would be no greater than he would
have upon a lawful sale for cash of an equal amount of
postage stamps.
The remaining and more interesting question is whether the
petitioner can be tried for this offence in .the District of
Connecticuf.

The petitioner relies on those provisions of the Constitution
of the United States which declare that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the right to be tried by an impartial jury of the State and District wherein the crime shall
have been committed. Art. 3, sect. 2, Amendments, Art. 6.
But the right thereby secured is not a right to be tried
in the district where the accused resides, or even in the district in which he .is personally at the time of committing the
crime, but in the district "wherein the crime shall have been
committed."
Reference was made in argument to the question, often
disputed, Where an indictment for murder shall be tried,
when a person mortally wounded in one jurisdiction afterwards dies in another jurisdiction
See Cormwnwealth v
]faoloon, 101 Mass. 1, and authorities there cited, The Queen
v
eyn, 2 Ex. D. 63, 11 Amer. Law Rev 625, State v.
Bowen, 16 Kansas, 475, Urnted States v Guiteau, 1 Mackey,
498. But there the original unlawful act is not only done
by the offender, but reaches the person at whom it is
aimed, in one jurisdiction, and it is the subsequent effect
only which takes place in another jurisdiction. We have no
occasion now to consider such a case, beyond observing that
before the Declaration of Independence provision had been
made by statute, both in England and in Ireland, for trying
such cases m either jurisdiction, and was never supposed to be
inconiistent in principle with the provision of Magna Charta,
c. 14, for trial by a jury of the. vidinage. 1 East P C. 366,
1 Gabbett's Crim. Law, 501. It is universally admitted that
when a shot fired in one jurisdiction strikes a person in
another jurisdiction, the offender may be .ttied where the shot
takes effect, and the only doubt is whether he can be tried

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

where the shot is fired. Rex v Coombes, I Leach, (4th ed.)
388, United States v 191 avzs, 2 Sumner, 482, 'eople v
Adams, 3 Denio, 190, 207, and 1 N. Y 173, 176, 179, Cockburn, C. J., in The Queen v .Ifeyn, 2 Ex. D. 233, 234.
When a crime is committed partly in one district and
partly in another,. it must, in order to prevent an absolute
failure of justice, be tried in either district, or in that one
which the legislature may designate, and Congress has accordingly provided that "when any offence against the
United States is begun in one judicial district and completed
in any other, it shall be deemed to have been committed in
either, and may be dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined
and punished in either district, in the same manner and as if
it had been actually and wholly committed therein." Rev.
Stat. § 731.
When an offence is committed by means of a communication through the post-office, the sender has sometimes, as
appears by the cases cited for the petitioner, been held to
be punishable at the place where he mails the letter. Unted
States v. lforrall,2 Dall. 384, United States v B'ckford, 4
Blatchford, 337, Rex v Williams, 2 Campbell, 506, The
King v Burdett, 3 B. & Aid. 717, and 4 B. & Ald:. 95, Perkin's Case, 2 Lewin, 150, Regmna v Cooke, 1 Fost. & Finl. 64,
The Queen v Holmes, 12 Q. B. D. 23, S. C.15 Cox Crim. Cas.
343". But it does not follow that he is not punishable at the
place where the letter is received by the person to whom it
is addressed and it is settled by an overwhelming weight of
authority that he may be tried and punished at that place,
whether the unlawfulness of the communication through the
post-office consists in its being a threatening letter, The
Xing v Girdwood, 1 Leach, 142, S. C. 2 East P C. 1120,
]Tsser's Case, 2 East P C. 1125, or a libel, The Zing v.
Johnson, 7 East, 65, S. C. 3 J P Smith, 94, The King v.
Burdett, 4 B. & Ald. 95, 136, 150i 170, 184, Commonwealth
v Blanding, 3 Pick. 304, In re Buell, 3 Dillon, 116, 122,
or a false pretence or fraudulent representation, Regma v.
Leech, Dearsly 642, S. C. 7 Cox Crim. Oas. 100, The Queen
v Rogers, 3 Q. B. D. 28, S. C. 14 Cox Crim. Cas. 22, Peo-

IN RE PALLISER.
Opinion of the Court.

ple v Rathbun, 21 Wend. 509, People v Adams, 3 Demo,
190, and 1 N. Y 173, Foute v State, 15 Lea (Tenn.) 712.
The only decision to the contrary, cited for the petitioner, is
one in which the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia,
upof the authority of a former case in the same court in
which no opinion is reported, held that where a letter containing a forged check was'put in the post-office at Baltimore,
addressed to a person in Washington, there was no uttering of
the forged paper in Washington. Untted States v Plymton,
4 Cranch C. C. 309, citing Unsted States v TVrzght, 2 Cranch
C. C. '296. In -Dana's Case, 7 Ben. 1, a warrant to remove to the District of Columbia a person alleged to have
printed a libel in a newspaper published in New York, and
circulated by his authority in the District of Columbia, was
refused by Mr. Justice Blatchford, then District Judge, not
because the offence could not be punished in the District of
Columbia, but because the law of that District provided for
its prosecution by information-only, and was therefore unconstitutional. In Unsted States v Comerford, 25 Fed. Rep. 902,
an indictment on § 3893 of the Revised Statutes, for "knowingly depositing or causing to be deposited" in the postoffice at New York a letter containing obscene matter in a
sealed envelope addressed to a person in Texas, was quashed,
not merely for want of jurisdiction in Texas, but because the
court held that the act did not constitute an offence under'
that stitute, in accord with the decision of this court at the
rresent term. in Un ed States v Chase, 135 U. S. 255.
In the case before us, the offence dharged being an offer of
money, or a tender of a contract for the payment of money,
contained in a letter mailed in New York and addressed to a
postmaster in Connecticut, to induce hun to violate his official
duty, it might admit of doubt whether any offence against the
laws of the United States was committed until the offer or
tender was known to the postmaster and might have influenced his mind. But there can be no doubt at all that, if any
offence was committed in New York, the offence continued to
be committed when the letter reached the.postmaster in Connecticut, and that, if no offence was committed in New York,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

an offence was committed in Connecticut, and that, in either
aspect, the District Court of the United States for the District
of Connecticut had jurisdiction of the charge against the
petitioner. Whether he might have been indicted in New
York is a question not presented by this appeal.

Order afirmed.

CtIOCAGO

RAILWAY EQUIPMENT COMPANY
MERCHANTS' BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

v.

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 64.

Argued November 4, 5, 1889.-Decided May 19, 1890.

'The maker executed in the State of Illinois and delivered to the promisee a
series of notes, one of which was acquired by a bona fide endorsee, and
was as follows ".$5000.
Chicago, Ill., January 20, A.D. 1884.
For
value received, four months after date, the Chicago Railway Equipment
Company promise to pay to the order of the Northwestern Mlanufacturlug and Car Company of Stillwater, Minnesota, five thousand dollars, at
First Nat. Bank of Chicago, Illinois, with interest thereon, at the rate
of - per cent per annum, from date until paid. This note is one of a
series of'twenty-five notes, of even date herewith, of the sum of five
thousand dollars each, and shall become due and payable to the holder on
the failure of the maker to pay the principal and interest of any one of
the notes of said series, and all of said notes are given for the purchase
price of two hundred and fiftyrailway freight cars manufactured by the
payee hereof and sold by said payee to the maker hereof, which cars are
numbered from 13,000 to 13,249, inclusive, and marked on the side thereof
with the words and letters Blue Line C. & E. I. R. R. Co., and it is agreed
by the maker hereof that the title to said cars shall remain in the said
payee until all the notes of said series, both principal and interest, are
fully paid, all of said notes being equally and ratably secured on said
cars. No. 1. Geo. B. Burrows, Vice-President. Countersigned by E. D.
Buffington, Treas." Held
(1) That this was a negotiable promissory note according to the statute
of Illinois, where it was made, as well as by the general mercantile law
(2) That its negotiability was not affected by the fact that the title to
the cars for which it was given. remained in the vendor until all
the notes of the same series were fully paid, the title being so

