OOTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Mo. 1224. Argued April 8,9,1890.--Decided May 19, 1890.

-Under the will of a testatrix who resided in New York, Cornell University,
a corporation of that State, was made her residuary legatee. It was
provided in its charter that it might hold real and personal property to an
amount not exceeding $3,000,000 in the aggregate. The Court of Appeals
of New York having held that it had no power to take or hold any more
real and personal property than $3,000,000 in the aggregate, at the time
of the death of the testatrix, and that, under the jursprdence of New
York, her heirs at law and next of kin had a right to avail themselves of
that fact, if it existed, in the controversy about the disposition of the
residuary estate, this court held that such decision of the Court of
Appeals did not involve any federal question and was binding upon this
court.
This court concurred with the Court of Appeals, 111 N. Y. 66, in holding
that, at the time of the death of the testatrix, the property held by Cornell University exceeded $3,000,000, and, therefore, it could not take her
legacy.
A federal question was involved in this case, arising under the act of Congress of July 2, 1862, 12 Stat. 503, c. 130, granting lands to the State of
New York to provide a college for the benefit of agriculture and the
mechanic arts.
The legislation of New York on the subject, in its acts of May 5, 1863, May
14, 1863, April 27, 1865, April 10, 1866, May 4, 1868, and May 18, 1880,
and the contract of the State with Ezra Cornell, of August 4, 1866, selling to him the land scrip received by the State from the United States
under the act of Congress, did not violate that act.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD stated the caseias follows

This is a proceeding which originated in the surrogate's
court of the county of Tompkins, in the State of New York.
John McGraw, a resident of Ithaca, in that county, died May
4, 1877, leaving as his only child and heir Jennie McGraw,
who, on the 14th of -July, 1880, at Berlin, Germany, intermarried with Willard Fiske, and died September, 30, 1881, at
Ithaca, her place of residence, after reaching the age of 41,
without issue, leaving her husband surviving her. John

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Statement of the Case.

McGraw left a last will and testament, which was duly admitted to probate by the surrogate of Tompkins County, and
of which his daughter, Jennie McGraw, and Douglass Boardman, and the survivor of them were made sole executors.
His daughter, Jennie McGraw Fiske, also left a last will and
testament, by which she made Douglass Boardman her sole
executor, and which was duly proved and admitted to probate
by the surrogate. Excepting about from $130,000 to $150,000
in value, which came to her by devise and bequest from her
grandfather, John Southworth, the title to the estate and
property which formed the subject of disposition by her will
came through the will of her father, John McGraw
On the 8th of January, 1883, after due citation of all parties interested, there was a judicial settlement of the accounts
of Douglass Boardman, as executor of Mrs. Fiske's estate,
and a decree entered by the surrogate confirming all payments theretofore made by the executor, and directing the
balance of said estate to be paid to Cornell University, as her
residuary legatee, and also a decree settling the accounts of
said Boardman as surviving executor of John McGraw, and
transferring the balance of his estate to the estate of Mrs.
Fiske.
On the 6th of September, 1883, on the petition of Willard
Fiske, as her surviving husband; the decree settling her estate
was opened by the surrogate, and he was permitted to be
heard with like effect as if he had appeared on the 8th of
January, 1883, such opening being without prejudice to payments-made or acts done by the executor in pursuance of her
will and of said decree, but leaving the validity and effect of
those acts and the rights of the respective parties therein for
future adjudication, and on the 24th of October, 1883, a similar order was made opening the said decree of settlement m
both estates, on the application of certain persons as the heirs
and next of km to Mrs. Fiske, and also on the application of
certain legatees and devisees under John McGraw's will.
Proofs were taken, the case was heard by the surrogate in
November, 1885, and on the 25th of May, 1886, he- made and
filed his findings and entered his decision and dicree, affirm-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ing in all things his original decrees as to the two estates. On
the 23d of June, 1886, the several contestants made and served
their exceptions to his findings, and duly appealed to the
Supreme Court from his decision and decree. They also requested him to make certain findings upon questions of fact,
and rulings upon questions of law, some of which requests he
granted and some of which he refused, and exceptions were
taken to h.s refusals.
The controversy in the case, so far as it presents itself for
our consideration, is between Cornell University on the one
side and the husband, heirs at law and next of kin of
Airs. Fiske on the other side. It was provided by section 5
of the charter of Cornell University tlat it might "hold real
and personal property to an amount not exceeding three millions of dollars in the aggregate;" and the material question
in dispute is as to whether, at the time of the death of
Mrs. Fiske, on the 30th of September, 1881, the university held
real and personal property to the amount of three millions of
dollars in the aggregate.
Of the findings of fact made by the surrogate the following
are the only ones which seem material to the case as it is
before us
"62. The Cornell University has had at all times since its
incorporation, and now has legal and corporate capacity to
take by gift, grant or devise real property in the States of
Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, Ohio, Indiana, Kansas
and New Jersey, and such is the law in those States respectively concerning foreign corporations like the university
"63. The Cornell University has legal capacity to take, and
did take by devise, all the real property the title to which was
in Jennie McGraw Fiske at the time of her death, under her
last will and testament, situate in the States of Michigan, Wh~isconsin, Iowa, Ohio, Indiana and New Jersey"
"66. The absolute title to the whole of the land situated m
,New Jersey passed under the will of Mrs. Fiske to Cornell
University"
"75. At the date of Mrs. Fiske's death, September 30, 1881,
Cornell University had, held and owned real and personal

CORNELL UNIEVERSITY v. FISKE.
Statement of the Case.

property, which it derived from the founder and other friends
of the university, or which was purchased with funds furnished by them or with the income of such funds, and which
property, September 3, 1881, was. of the value of five hundred
and ninety-eight thousand five hundred and eighty-eight and
P dollars ($598,588.65) in the aggregate." Thin follows a
description, by items, of the property thus held and owned by
the university, with the separate value of each item, as of
September 80, 1881. The last item is as follows "The farm.
and grounds on which the university buildings are located,
consisting of about 260,acres, including the buildings and
reservoir, $69,683.33."
"93. The following is a recapitulation of the findings of
fact relating to the property of Cornell University, viz.
"September 30, 1881, Cornell University had, held and
owned the property derived from individuals and described in
the foregoing 75th- finding of fact, to the amount and value of
not exceeding $598,588.65 in. the aggregate. At the same
time Cornell University had,., held and owned the property
derived from the nation and State, and described in the foregoing findings, to the amount and value of not exceeding
$2,088,012.78 in the aggregate, as follows Western land
contracts, $439,834.22; Western lands, $1,648,178.56, total,
$2,088,012.78.
"But under and in pursuance of the Cornell contract of
August 4, 1866, the whole net proceeds of the avails of said
last-mentioned property, being the proceeds of the sale- of
said college land scrip or lands located therewith, was at that
time due or payable by Cornell University to the State of
New York, and the total amount and value of the property
had, held and owned by Cornell University, September 30,
1881, over and above its obligations to the State of New
York, as defined by said contract, was $598,588.65.
"At that tine Cornell University had, held and owned the
right to 'the'income, 'revenue and avails which should be received from the investment of the proceeds of the sale of the
lands or the scrip therefor, or any part thereof, granted to the
State of New York by the act of Congress entitled. An act

OCTOBER -TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

donating public lands to the several States and Territories
which may provide colleges for the benefit of agriculture and
the mechanic arts," approved July 2, 1862,' which right to
said 'income, revenue and avails' was granted, and for a
valuable consideration, paid by Ezra Cornell, was contracted,
to Cornell Umversity by section 6 of its charter. The right
to the income, etc., of the proceeds of said sales, September
30, 1881, extended to the College Land Scrip Fund and Cornell Endowment Fund, as they then existed, and to all the
proceeds of said sales which would or might come to said
funds by virtue of the sale to Ezra Cornell of said college
land scrip under his contract of August 4, 1866.
"At that time also Cornell University had possession of the
Cornell Endowment Fund, and the State of New York had
possession of the College Land Scrip Fund.
"Tabular Statement.
" Funds derived from individuals, described in
75th finding of fact
$598,588 65
"Funds derived from nation and State.
"Western Lands
1,648,178 56
"Western land contracts
439,834 22
"Cornell Endowment Fund
128,596 61
"College Land Scrip Fund
473,402 87
$3,288,600 91
"Making the total funds which belonged to Cornell University, September 30, 1881, under section 5 of its charter, $598,
588.65, and the total funds already realized and to be realized,
only the right to the income of which at that date belonged to
Cornell University, under section 6, was $2,690,012.26.
"94. I find that the sum of all the property, real and per
sonal, which the said Cornell University had taken before September 30th, 1881, by gift, grant, devise or bequest, did not
exceed one million and six hundred thousand dollars.
"95. It has not been proved nor established that the property of the Cornell University, owned and -hela by it on the

CORNTELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Statement of the Case.

30th day of September, 1881, the date of the death of Jennme
McGraw Fiske, together with that devised and bequeathed by
her last will and testament to said university, exceeded the
sum of three millions of dollars."
On his findings of fact the surrogate decided and held as
follows, as conclusions of law
"I decide and hold, as conclusions of law, that Douglass
:Boardman, as executor of the last will and testament of
Jennie McGraw Fiske, deceased, and as sole surviving executot of John McGraw, deceased, and Cornell University, are
entitled to a decree directing
"(a.) That the accounts of Douglass Boardman, as executor
of Jennie McGraw Fiske, deceased, and as sole surviving executor of John -McGraw,deceased, filed in the Tompkins County
surrogate's office on the 8th day of January, 1883, be in
all respects allowed, and the decrees, including the summary
statements therein contained, recorded and entered upon said
accounts, be m all respects ratified and affirmed, incluaifig all
payments heretofore made by said executor to Cornell University
" (b.) That the said executor pay over to Cornell University
the sum of one hundred forty-one thousand six hundred and
seventy-six and f dollars ($141,676.72), being the balance on
hand January 1, 1885, and ready for distribution.
"(c.) And adjudging that said Cornell University is the
owner and entitled to all the rest, residue and remainder of said
estate, and directing said executor to pay the same, when sold,
to said Cornell University, in money, or in such other form, or
at such other time, as may be mutually agreed upon between
said Cornell University and said' executor."
The decree of the surrogate being in accordance with his
findings and conclusions of law, the husband and the heirs at
law and next of kin of Mrs. Fiske appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, from the whole of the decree,
the appeal being taken both upon facts and upon questions of
law The case was heard by the general term of that court,
and is reported in 45 Hun, 354. Judge lardin, the presiding
judge, delivered an opinion, in which Judge Follett concurred,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and Judge Merwin also delivered a concurring opinion. The
three judges were unanimous in reversing the decree of the

surrogate.
In the judgment entered by the general term of the Suprene Court, on the 11th of December, 1887, the surrogate's
finding of fact numbered 62 was modified so as to read as
follows: "62. The Cornell University has had at all times
since its incorporation, and now has, legal and corporate
capacity to take, by gift, grant or devise, real property in the
States of Mfichigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, Ohio, Indiana, Kansas and New Jersey, subject to the limitation in its
charter; and such is the law in those States respectively
concerning foreign corporations like the university" His
finding of fact numbered 63 was reversed and stricken out.
iis finding, above recited, in No. 66, as to the title
to the land situate in New Jersey, was reversed and
stricken, out. All those parts of his finding numbered 75,
which fixed the value of the item mentioned last therein at
$69,683.33, and which fixed the total value of the items
named in that finding at $598,588.65, and each clause in any
of his findings which recapitulated those values respectively at
the sums so stated, especially so much of finding numbered 93
as stated that, on the 30th of September, 1881, "Cornell University had, held and owned the property derived from
individuals and described in the foregoing 75th finding of fact,
to the amount and value of not exceeding $598,588.65 in the
aggregate," were reversed and stricken out, but only in so
far as the aggregate of $598,588.65 was made up of the last
item in the 75th finding, namely, the farm and university
buildings located thereon, valued by him at $69,683.33. The
following parts of his finding numbered 93 were reversed and
stricken out "But under and in pursuance of the Cornell
contract of August 4, 1866, the whole- net proceeds of the
avails of said last-mentioned property, being the proceeds of
the sale of said ce4lege land scrip, or lands located therewith,
was at that time due or payable by Cornell University fo the
State of New York, and the total amount and value of the
property had, held and owned by Cornell University, Sep-

CORNELL UN IVERSITY v. FISKE.
Statement of the Case.

tember 30, 1881, over and above its obligations to the State
of New York, as defined by said contract, was $598,588.65."
"'Making the total funds which belonged to Cornell Umversity, September 30, 1881, under section 5 of its charter,
$598,588.65, and the total funds already realized and to be
realized, only the right to the income of which at that date
belonged to Cornell University, under -section 6, was $2,690,012.26." His finding numbered 95 was reversed and stricken
out.
The judgment of the Supreme Court then went on to provide as follows
"And it is further found, adjudged and decided by this
court, in pursuance of the statute in such case made ann provided that at the death of Jennie McGraw Fiske, September
30, 1881, the value of the farm and grounds on which the
university buildings are located, consisting of about 260 acres,
including the buildings and reservoir; was the sum of $100,000.00, instead of 69,683.33, as found by the surrogate, and
the total value of the items set forth in the finding of the surrogate numbered 75, including this last item, viz., $400,000.00,
was $928,905.32.
"And it is further found, decided and adjudged by this
court, that the property of the Cornell University which was
1eld and owned by it when Jennie McGraw Fiske died, on
fhe 30th day of September, 1881, amounted in value to the
sum of $3,015,414.71, made up as follows
"Funds derived from individuals, described in the
75th finding of fact, (excluding the last item
$528,905 32
thereof,) as valued by the surrogate
"The last item in said 'finding, viz., farm of
about 260 acres and university buildings, as
400,000 00
valued by this court
"Property derived from Cornell contracts with
the State, as valued by the surrogate in his
findings
1,648,178 56
"Western lands

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"Western land contracts
"Cornell endowment fund

$439,334 22
128,596 61

$3,145,014 71
"Total
"Less amount due to the college Land Scrip
Fund, for the last 30 cents an acre on 432,000
..
129,600 00
acres
"Balance

$3,015,4:14 71

"Making the total funds which belonged to Cornell University September 30th, 1881, under section five of its charter,
$3,015,414.71.
"And it is further found, decided and adjudged that there
was at that time due to the College Land Scrip Fund, and to
be treated as a part thereof, the sum of $129,600 mentioned
above.
"And it is further found, decided and adjudged that the
College Land Scrip Fund, consisting of $4173,402.87, together
with the sum of $129,600, as found above, is not the property
of Cornell University, and should not be reckoned or included
as a part thereof, or subject to its charter limitation.
"And this court does further find and decide, that, at the
date of the death of said Jennie -McGraw Fiske, the said
Cornell University held and owned real and personal property, of which the yearly income or revenue was more than
($25,000) twenty-five thousand dollars, exclusive of the College Land Scrip Fund then held by the Comptroller of the
State of New York for the benefit of said university, and such
yearly income and revenue was derived in part from lands
and avails of sales of land which came to Cornell University
through the Cornell contract of August 4, 1866.
"And it is further found, decided and adjudged by this
court, that at the time of the death of Jennie McGraw Fiske
the Cornell University had already reached the limit of property prescribed by its charter, as found above, and was not
entitled to and could not take or hold any of the property or
funds devised or bequeathed to it by her last will and testa-

CORNELL UNIV]ERSITY v. FISKE.
Statement of the Case.

ment, and never had any right, title or interest in or to the
same or any part thereof, and that at her decease, the legal
right and title in and to all of the property and funds so
devised and bequeathed by her to the Cornell University
passed to and vested in the appellants, according to their several rights therein as between themselves, as the same may
hereafter appear."
The judgment then went on to reverse the surrogate's. decree of May 25, 1886, with costs to be paid by the executor
out of the funds of the estate, and to order the proceedings to
be remitted to. the surrogate, and that he enter a decree in
conformity with the judgment of the Supreme Court, and
make a distribution to the appellants according to their respective rights, as between themselves, they having already
agreed upon such rights, of all the property in the hands of.
the executor of 'Mrs. Fiske, after paying debts, expenses and
legacies other than those to Cornell University, together with
all the property and funds which had come into the possession of the executor, and which he had delivered or paid over
to Cornell University, and that the university restore into
his hands all money and property received from him, and all
dividends, interest and income therefrom, received by the
university, less any expenses necessarily incurred in investing
and managing the same, and that the surrogate ascertain and
fix the amount so received by the university from the executor, with the gains, profits and income thereof, less such
expenses, and enforce restitution of the same to the executor,
by a decree.
Boardman, as executor of John McGraw and of Mrs. Fiske,
and also Cornell University, appealed to the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York from the judgment of December 14,
1887. The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment and a
remittitur from that court having been sent to the Supreme
Court an order was entered in the latter court on the 12th of
December, 1888, making the judgment of the Court of Appeals the judgment of the Supreme Cburt, and awarding the
costs of the Court of Appeals against the executor and the
uiversity
vo. aXX=-1i

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

The opinion of the Court of Appeals, delivered by Judge
Peckham, is reported in 111 N. Y 66, The judges were
unanimous, except that Judge Finch to6k no part. Cornell
University, and Boardman, as executor of John McGraw and
of Mrs. Fiske, have brought the case to this court by a writ
of error, directed to the Supreme Court of the State of New
York.
AU[r Edwzn Countryman (with whom was Mr Samuel C.
_lalliday on the brief) for plaintiffs in error.
A&fr Esek Cowen, for defendants in error, argued upon the
jurisdiction of the court, and upon the merits of the case. On
the question of jurisdiction he contended as follows
I. In the proceedings below, Cornell University did not
"claim" any "right, title, privilege or immunity," under any
statute of the United States, or which was, directly or indirectly, derived from such statute.
Omitting provisions irrelevant to this case, section 709 of
the Revised Statutes confers upon this court the right to review the decision of the highest court of a State, "where any
title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under
any statute
of the United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, privilege or immunity, specially set up,
or claimed by either party" It will be seen that the power
of review is given only as to a judgment or decree, in a suit,
"where" (that is, "in which ") is claimed such title, right, privilege or immunity The university has never in this proceeding, or otherwise, claimed any right, privilege or immunity,
directly or remotely, derived from any act of Congress. It is
an artificial person created by a New York statute, and must
look to its charter for all its "rights, privileges and inimumties." On the other hand, it does own certain lands and land
contracts, the title to which is clearly derived from the act of
Congress, granting lands to the several States for educational
purposes.
But it is equally clear that the university did not claim

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Argument for Defendants m Error.

these lands sn the ;qut or p roceeding that is brought here by
this writ. What the university claimed in that .proceeding,
what the court below denied, was the title to certain personal
property formerly belonging to Mrs. Fiske and her father, and
not at all the lands derived from the United States. The position of the tilaintiffs in error seems to be that an appeal lies to
this court whenever a state court has construed a federal
statute contrary to the contention of either of the parties.
But that is not'the meamng of the law A mere construction
of an act of Congress by the state court does not give this
court jurisdiction. One of the parties must have asserted
*ome right, dernvedfrom such .statute, and must have been
deprived of that right by the decision of the state court.
"It is not every misconstruction of an act of Congress by a
state court that will give this court appellate jurisdiction. It
is where the party claims some title, right, privilege or exemption under an act of Congress, and the decision is against such
right, title, privilege or exemption." Montgomery v -Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129, 132. See also Mlenard v Aspasta, 5 Pet.
505, 517, Bowman v Chwago & Northwestern Ra'ilway Co.,
115 U. S. 611.
II. Even if the judgment of the court below were binding
as between Cornell University and the State of New York,
(which is a stranger to these proceedings,) the title of the university to the lands and land contracts conveyed to it by Ezra
Cornell, and which it does hold under the act df Congress, has
been ajffrmed, not denied by the state court.
It must be remembered that the duty of the State of New
York as trustee, to Cornell University, or to the United States
as creator of the trust, was not in any sense before the court
below The sole question was one of title. Was Cornell Unversity the owner of the lands, and contracts conveyed to it by
Ezra Cornell within the meaning of the charter of that corporationI
In order to give this court jurisdiction under Rev Stat..
709, the plaintiff in error must have claimed some right or
title, etc., under the Constitution, or under a treaty or law of
the United States, and such right or title, etc., must have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

denied by the state court. No principle is better settled than
that no appeal lies where the right or title claimed has been
affirmed by the state court. Commonwealth Bank v Gr~ffith,
14 Pet. 56, Burke v Ga'ines, 19 How 3S8, Ryan v Thomas,
4 Wall. 603. In the case at bar tile Cornell University did
not claim in the state court any right or title under any statute of the United States, and no such right or title was, in
any manner, affected by the judgment, and furthermore, that
an apparent title to property, derived from the United States
through an act of Congress, having by chance come in question, the decision of the state court was safavor of that title.
III. Assuming, as before, (what is not the fact,) that the
decision below was binding as between the Cornell University
and the State of New York, and that the right of the university to the lands and contracts conveyed to it by Ezra Cornell
was involved in the proceeding below, still the appeal would
not lie, for the state court decided not against the title of the
University, but aganst the title of the State of -Yew York.
It has been settled bv repeated decisions of this court that
to sustain a writ of error to a state court the latter tribunal must have denied some "right, title, privilege or immunity" claimed by the plaintiff in error in h-s own right. It is
not enough that the plaintiff in error claims that such title,
etc., is given to another by the Federal Constitution, treaty or
statute, even when the denial of that right to such other per
son has resulted in a judgment adverse to the plaintiff in error.
Long v Converse, 91 U. S. 105, Miller v Lancaster Bank,
106 U S. 542, 1enderson v Tennessee, 10 How 311, Owings
v FNorwood, 5 Cranch, 344.
IV The decision of the Court of Appeals of the State of
New Y ork did not affirm the validity of any statute of the
State of New York claimed by the plaintiffs in error to be in
contravention of any law of Congress, nor was the validity of
any such statute "drawn in question" in the court below
V The plaintiffs in error did not "draw in question " in
the state courts the validity of any authority exercised by or
under the State of New York, nor was there any decision in
the state court in favor of an authority so exercised and questioned by them.

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Argument for Defendants m Error.

The state courts, in deciding upon the title to this fund, did
not pass upon the validity of any statute of the State of
New York, for no such question was before them, and the
validity of the contract between Ezra Cornell and the State
was not "drawn in question" by the plaintiffs m error, for
they admitted and asserted its validity, and its invalidity
would have been fatal to the case they were seeking to make.
But the act of Congress and its effect upon the constructionof the Cornell contract were drawn in question. The counsel
for the university insisted that, by virtue of the Cornell con.
iract, the university, as assignee of Ezra Cornell, was bound
to pay the net proceeds of the lands located by him into the
treasury of the State, and that such proceeds being part of
the purchase price of the land scrip, would, under the act of
Congress, belong, when paid in, to the fund created by that.
act, which the State had agreed to accept and hold.
They argued, therefore, that the ultimate title to the fund
was not in the umversity, but in the State of New York.
Upon this point the decision was against them. The, state
courts did not deny a title claimed by the university under
any law of Congress, but affirmed a title which the university
attempted to disclaim. It denied a title, which the plaintiffs
in error asserted to be in the State of New York, a third
person, not a party to the proceedings.
But. these decisions do not come within the statute allowing
an appeal to this court. The writ of error should, therefore,
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
VI. The case is not appealable because there are other
grounds aside from the construction of the act of Congress of
which the. plaintiffs in error complain, on which the Court of
Appeals based its conclusion, and which would have led to
the same result if the construction of the plaintiffs in error
had been adopted by the court.
The state court was certainly at liberty to hold, upon general principles of law, that, assuming that the relation of
trustee and ces?,que truwt existed between the State of New
York and Cornell University, the latter could not question
acts of its trustee which had been done for its benefit and at

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument ior Defendants in Error.

its special instance and request. And the Court of. Appeals
has, partially at least, placed its decision on this ground.
Judge Peckham, in delivering the opinion of the court, said
"It is exceedingly doubtful, to my mind, whether the university can be heard to claim the existence of this alleged
debt under the facts of this case. The State has made and
makes no claim upon the university for the property, or any
portion of it. It was placed in its-possession by virtue of the
consent of the State, evidenced by the passage of an act authorizing and directing it. The university has claimed to be
tile owner of it, and no one has drawn its rightful title in
question. Can it now, while enjoying, without hostile claim
from any source, the full control of the property, as its absolute owner, set up, as a reason why it should be allowed to
take other property, that, perhaps, hereafter, some one may
make a claim that the property does not belong to the university, but that it is a trust fund, originating in the act of
Congress 2 If the State or United States were to commence
some proceeding, based on the counsel's argument, to reclaim
possession of the property, there is nothing in the present
attitude of the university which would necessarily estop, or
in any way conclude it from denying that any such trust exists,
or that any case had been made for taking this property out
of its bands. So far as appears, it seems that this assumed
indebtedness is entirely gratuitous on its part, and that there is
no creditor who makes the claim, no one who questions its
title. It is going a good ways, under such circumstances, to
lay much weight on a liability which, up to this proceeding,
was never admitted by the university, and is not now asserted
by any one else. It would seem as if property, which was
thus in the possession of the corporation, unclaimed by anyone else, was ieId y 'it wtlt
the neaning of its charter, and
that the question with regard to the character of its holding
was merely an abstract one, with which courts would not
deal, at least so far as this proceeding is concerned."
Now, whether the Court of Appeals was right or wrong
in this position, it is one based on general principles of law,
and does not " draw in question" the construction of any act

CORNELL 'UFNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
4rgument for Plaintiffs m Error..

of Congress. The decision is, that even if the act of Congress
be so construed as to. make the university a debtor to the,
State for the proceeds of the lands, located by Ezra Cornell, it
has been precluded, by its own conduct, from raising that
question in these proceedings.
An appeal will not lie under section 709 of the Revised
Statutes, if this court can see that the decision of the court
below was, or may have been, placed upon some ground which
did not involve the construction: of the Federal Constitution,
treaty or statute. Ocean Ins. Co. v Polleys, 13 Pet. 157,
Stnes v Franklin County, 14 Wall. 15, Kennebec .7?ailroad
v PortlandRailroad, 14 Wall. 23.
.Mr George F Comstock argued for the defendants in error.
.MP S. S. Gregory (with whom upon the brief were Mr
iames S. Harlan, -Hr William, XE. Booth and. -Hr John G
Sears) argued for defendants inerroz.
-Mr George F Edmunds, for plaintiffs. in error,, in closing,
after discussing the question of jurisdiction, said on the merits
The act of Congress of 1862, 12 Stat. c. 130, 503, provided
for aid to public instruction in the States a great fund. in lands,
if within the limits of the State, and, if not, in lAnd scrip
in other States, which the State owning the scrip could not
locate in its own name, (this for obvious reasons,) but which
it was provided should "be sold by said States, and the proceeds thereof applied to the uses and purposes prescribed. in
this act, and for no other use or purpose whatever." The act
also provided that though the States should not locate their
own scrip in other States,." their assignees may thus, locate,"
etc. It was provided that the expenses of location, sale of
scrip, etc., should be paid by the States, "so that the entire
proceeds of the sale of said lands shall be applied, without
any diminution whatever, to the purposes" ofthe act. These
purposes were "the endowment, support- and maintenance of
at least one jollege, where the leading object.shall be, without

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

excluding other scientific -and classical studies, and including
military tactics, to teach such branches of learning as are
related to agriculture and the mechanic arts, m such a manner
as the legislatures of the States may respectively prescribe, in
order to promote the liberal and practical education of the
industrial classes in the several pursuits and professions in, life."
This foundation both in terms and intent was made upon
the idea that the State accepting the donation should make
the most and best it possibly could out of the lands and land
scrip thus donated.
It was a trust that expressed and implied the highest degree
of duty and diligence on the part of the State in obtaining
the greatest possible fund that -could be got out of the lands
and scrip, for the purposes named.
iad it been a private trust between citizens, established in
precisely the same phrases, no one would doubt that the donee
who accepted the gift would be bound in every and the higAest sense to realize the largest possible sum to the ends named.
The State, acting upon the duty and trust in the sense in
which I have described it, on 27th April, 1865, passed the act
establishing Cornell University It was a public educational
institution, whose governing authority was the chief officers
of the State, but it was provided as a clue and grateful memorial of the beneficience of Mr. Cornell in the foundation gifts
as well as in what it was expected he would be able to do in
realizing the largest possible sum out of the land scrip for the
benefift of the institution, that the eldest male lineal descendant
of Mr. Cornell should be ex officw a member. It was also provided, as had been stated in the title of the act, that the objects
and educational proceedings of the corporation should be the
very ones named in the donating act of Congress.
The foundation and activity, therefore, were the foundation
and activity measured precisely by the provisions of the act
of Congress.
The fifth section of the incorporation act authorized it to
hold real and personal property to an amount not exceeding
three million dollars, but it is agreed on all hands in this controversy that that limitation-has no application to such prop-

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Argument for Plaintiffs m Error.

erty as falls within the purview, and is subject to the operation
of the donating act of Congress. This would be apparent on
acknowledged principles if the state act itself had made no
further provision, but, having thus limited the general and
disposable property of the corporation, it proceeded without
limit to provide for all the funds that could be obtained from
the land scrip, amounting to 990,000 acres.
The sixth section declared that "the income, revenue and
avails, which shall be received from the investment of the proceeds of the sale of the lands, or of the scrip thereof, or any
part thereof," should be paid over to the university for the
purpose before named.
The seventh section provided that the trustees should fulfil
the requirements of the act of Congress in respect of the
buildings, etc., as part of their duty in connection with taking
the fund.
'The next step was the act of New York, 10th April, 1866,
which provided that the comptroller should fix the price of
the scrip at not less than thirty cents per acre, that he might
contract for the sale thereof with the trustees of the university It provided, further, that the trustees might make contracts to the effect that "the whole net avails and profitefrom
the sale of land
located under sasd scmp shall, from
time to time, as such net avails and profits are received, be paid
over and devoted to the purposes of such institution,
in accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress herembefore mentioned." The act then required that the _persons
to whom the serp " shall be sold shall ireport to the comptroller
annually, under such oath and in such form as the comptroller
shall direct, the amount of land or scrip sold, prices at which
the same have been sold and the amount of the money received
therefor," etc.
The next section provided that the comptroller should have
the power of examination into. the doings of the person to
whom the scrip had been thus sold, in order to ascertain the
net avails, etc., to the end of carrying out the purposes of the
act.
The next step in the history of the transaction'is the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of INew York' of 24th of April, 1867, amending the charter
of the university, the 7'th section of, which required that the
trustees of the university taking the benefit of the act should
comply with-the act of Congress in respect of the buildings,
etc., and that "they shall make all reports, and perform such
other acts as may be necessary to conform, to the act of Congress aforesaid."
On the 22d July, 1867, the comptroller reported to the constitutional convention of New York the history of the matter
down to that time, from which it appeared that Mr. Cornell
had proposed to take the land scrip and to deal with it fer
the benefit of the university, beginning at thirty cents an
acre and all profits, and thirty cents uiore per acre to be
added to the college fund, etc., and the balance of said
profits to be placed in a separate fund, to be known as the
Cornell Endowment Fund, and to be preserved and invested
for the benefit of said institution, and the income derived
therefrom to be paid over annually to the trustees of the said
university for the general purposes of said institution.
" The general purposes" of the institution were preezsely
those, and none other, that the donating act of Congress had required that the avails of the land somjp should be devoted to.
The arrangement, then, instead of being a compensation or
commssion to 21r. Cornell for undertaking the enterprise of
disposing of the -scrip, was an arrangement precisely to the
ends declared by the act of Congress, and the separation of
the avails, and the giving a name to a part of them was
simply the tribute that was justly due Mr. Cornell in respect
of his contributions and exertions to the beneficent end contemplated. Things and obligations remain the same - names
and ornaments were laid on to these things for the honor. of
the name of Mr. Cornell. That was all. The substance was
the same.
It is obvious, then, if clear language can express clear intentions, that the State intended and Cornell agreed that in
putting the disposition of the scrip into his hands, all the
money that could be derived from the disposition of the scrip
should be devoted to the purposes of the institution. That

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Argument for Plintiffs in Error.

part of it meitioned as attributable to the "Cornell Endowment Fund" was only a phrase of honor to the name and
efforts of Cornell in realizing the largest possible sum for the
beneficent ends designed by the act of Congress. There is'no
word, hint or symptom that the sum attributable to the Cornell
Endowment Fund was to be considered as a compensation to
Cornell, as the agent or contractor of. or with the State, for
his service in disposing of the scrip. Had there been any such
statement or implication, it would have been, on the face of
it, an apparent fraud on the donor, for the sum expected to be
realized and that was in fact realized, would be o'ut of all proportion to any honest arrangement in respect of payment for
services or responsibilities in the affair.
Under this arrangement between the State and Mr. Cornell,
and pursuant to the law and authority of the State then in
force and no other. Mr. Cornell disposed of the. scrip and
realized therefrom the large sums of money that have become,
in the practical sense, the pivot on which this case turns. This
realization of funds and income took place before the subsequent steps in respect of legislation or contract were taken.
Under the law and agreement before mentioned Mr. Cornell
then went on, took the scrip, located and sold it from time to
time, and then, on 4th May, 1868, the legislature of New Yo~k
enacted that the moneys in question in excess 'of the sixty
cents per acre before referred to, "which excess, in pursuance
of a contract made with Ezra Cornell by the commissioners of
the land office bearing date 4th August, 1866, is set apart
and constituted a separate and distinct fund, to be known as
the ' Cornell Endowment Fund,' shallfrom time to time," etc.,
be invested. This investment, it is true, was not such an investment as the act of Congress appeared to require, but the
income was to be devoted to the uses of the university, which
uses, as before stated, were precisely and only those named in
the act of Congress.
Whether the State, in providing for a different investment
from that which the act of Congress required, was guilty of
a breach of trust or duty, is a question quite apart from the
nature of the fund. The fact that a trustee misinvests the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for :P1aintiffs in Error.

funds confided to him does not alter the character of the trust
or fund.
Following all this, in 1869 the Comptroller of the State
reported the receipts from both the classes of moneys - " College Land Scrip Fund," "Cornell Endowment Fund" - as the
fruits of the sale of scrip under the act of Congress, and stated
the account accordingly
The Comptroller of the State from time to time reported to
the legislature the state of the accumulations under these two
heads and called attention to the .possibility that the State was
not, in form, at least, conforming to the act of -Congress in
dealing with the avails of the sales of scrip in the very respect
of the Cornell endowment fund matter - chiefly as it respected
expenses, etc. But continually, as it appears from the official
records, all the money that Mr. Cornell got in from the sale
of scrip was turned over to the State in accordance with this
contract, and for the purposes before named. And this was
in pursuance of the acts of the legislature of iNew York from
time to time passed on the subject. That of May 4, 1868,
provided for the disposition of the "excess" arising under the
contract with Cornell, and set that money apart as under state
authority, and, referring to the donating act of Congress as
its foundation, provided that it should be invested to the end
contemplated by the act of Congress, although the mode of
the-investment authorized differed from the limitations of the
act of Congress, but it required that the fund should still be
held and devoted to the purposes of the institution, which purposes, as before stated, were precisely and no other than those
mentioned in the donating act of Congress.
The sale of the scrip accordingly went on, and the money
came in and was duly accounted for accordingly There was
yet left some unlocated or unrealized scrip, and Mr. Cornell,
apparently becoming tired of the drudgery and detail concerning the affair, desired that his authority and mission
should be turned over to the university itself. Accordingly
the State, by an act of 18th May, 1880, directed the comptroller to turn over to the university all the funds, securities,
etc., known as belonging to the "Cornell Endowment Fund."

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Argpnent for Plaintiffs in Error.

Due reports and operations were had accordingly, which
appear in the state records.
The next and last act of the legislature upon the subject
was that of 12th May, 1882, which provided for detail of the
practical management, and also provided that the university
might take and hold real and personal property to such an
amount as should become necessary for the -proper conduct
and support of the several departments of education before
mentioned.
[This act waspost hco, and cannot perhaps be held to affect
the validity of a devise depending upon the death of a person
that had theretofore happened, but it was certainly, so far as
the legislative power could do it, a waiver of any of the public
considerations that entered into the limitation of the amount
the university could hold under its charter.]
The case then, on its merits, (the very merits upon which
the Coui~t of Appeals of New York determined it,) depends
upon the question whether, in view of what had transpired,
the money obtained from the sale of the land scrip over which,
Mr. Cornell had never at any time any personal control, belonged and was subject to the trusts and purposes de6lared in
the act of Congress, or not.
If, in the same course of disposition; the State of New York
had dealt in the same way with Mr. Cornell, but had provided
that the excess above the minimum price should be paid into
its treasury, for the general purposes of the expenditures of
-the State, it.could not, I take it, be thought by anybody that
such a disposition could separate that money from the trust.
Nor can it, I think, be doubted that; if the same donation
had been made to any private person and upon the same conditions,, and he had made the. same engagements with another
that the State did with Cornell, he could not require that the
so-called " excess" above the minimum price fixed; should be
paid to him for his own private use.
I submiti therefore, that it is perfectly clear (needing no
citations of authorities upon the law of trusts-that the whole
of the moneys derived in the way before stated, were trust
moneys and Belonging to a -trustfund, and having no connec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tion or relation with the limitations of the amount of property
that the university might hold provided in its charter.
The fact that a donee or trustee happens to be a corporation, private or public, does not, in the least, change the nature
and character of the trust.
The fact, so much relied upon on the other side, that the
State provided for other modes of investment than those mentioned in the act of Congress cannot have any bearing upon
the intrinsic nature of the trust itself. To, hold that it can,
will be to hold that a trustee may change the nature and
responsibility of his duties under a trust by a misinvestment.
MR. JusTIcE BLATOHFORD, having stated the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The questions for consideration here fall within a narrow
compass, for they can embrace only federal questions.
The Court of Appeals, in its opinion, discussed only two
questions, (1) whether Cornell University had power to take
and hold property of the value of more than $3,000,000, and
(2) if it had no such power, whether it held real and personal
property in the aggregate up to such limit, at the time of the
death of Mrs. Fiske, on the 30th of September, 1881.
The first question was examined most elaborately by that
court, and it arrived at the conclusions that the university
had no power to take or hold any more real and personal
property than $3,000,000 in the aggregate, at the time of the
death of -Mrs. Fiske, and that, under the jurisprudence of
the State of New York, her husband and her heirs at law and
next of kin had a right to avail themselves of the fact, if it
existed, in the controversy before the court, that at the time
of her death, on the 30th of September, 1881, the university
already held real and personal property up to the prescribed
limit. The propositions thus decided by the Court of Appeals
do not involve any federal question. They depend entirely
upon the construction of the provisions of the charter of the
university, and upon the municipal law of the State of New
York. The decision upon those questions is binding pon this

CORINELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opinion of the Court.

court in the present case. Therefore, the only question subject to review by us is whether the property held by the
university prior to and at the time of the death of Mrs. Fiske,
on the 30th of September, 1881, exceeded the amount which
by law it could hold, if a federal question is involved in that
proposition. The Court of Appeals decided that the property
so held by the university exceeded $3,000,000.
It is contended by the defendants in error that in the proceedings in the state courts the university did not "claim"
any "title, right, privilege or immunity," under any statute of
the United States, or which was derived directly or indirectly
from any such statute, that, even if the judgment of the
Court of Appeals was binding as between the university and
the State, the latter being a stranger to the proceeding,
the title of the university to the lands and land contracts
conveyed to it by Cornell, if held under the act of Congress
involved in the controversy, has been affirmed, and not denied,
by the state court, that, assuming that the decision of the
Court of. Appeals was binding as between the university and
the State, and that the right of the university to the lands
and contracts' conveyed to it by Cornell was involved in the
proceeding, still the writ of error will not lie, because the
state court decided, not against the -title oY the university, but
against the title of the State, that the decision of the Court
of Appeals did not affirm the validity of any statute of the
State which the plaintiffs in error claimed to be in contravention of any act of Congress, nor was the validity of any such
statute ." drawn in question" in that court, that the plaintiffs
in error did not draw in question, in the state court, the' validity of any authority exercised by or under the State, nor was
there any decision in the state court in favor of an authority
so exercised, and so questioned by the plaintiffs in error, and
that, aside from any construction of the act of Congress of
which the plaintiffs in error complain as that on which the
Court of Appeals based any conclusion, there were other
grounds which would have led to the same result, if the construction (f *such act of Congress insisted upon by the plaintiffs in error had. been adopted by the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

On the other hand, it is rsisted by the plaintiffs in error,
that this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
state court, under the second clause of section 709 of the Revised Statutes, because there was drawn in question the
validity of statutes of the State of INew York and of an
authority exercised under those statutes, on the ground of
their being -repugnant, as they were finally construed by
the state court, to the provisions of an act of Congress.
Without discussing this question of jurisdiction, it is sufficient
to say, that a majority of the court are of opinion that this
court has jurisdiction. As our conclusion is that the judgment of the state court must be affirmed, it is not important
to discuss at any length the question of jurisdiction, because,
whether the writ of error is dismissed, or whether the judgment is affirmed, the result is the same, of allowing the judgment of the state court to stand in full force.
We proceed now to give our views as to the case upon its
merits. The conclusion of the Court of Appeals, in its concurrence with the Supreme Court, that the property of the university exceeded $3,000,000, was based upon the modifications
made by the Supreme Court, in its judgment, of the finding
of the surrogate as to the value of the buildings and grounds.
The Court of Appeals, in its opinion (p. 131), states that it
agrees with the Supreme Court in those modifications, although it was probably bound by the findings of that court,
as there was contradictory evidence in regard to such value.
This court certainly is bound by the findings of the Supreme
Court and of the Court of Appeals on that subject. The remainder of the questions before us depends wholly upon documentary evidence, and upon the construction of statutes and
of written papers.
The Court of Appeals, in approaching the question as to
whether the property in controversy, if taken and held by the
university, would exceed the amount which by law it could
hold, says (p. 113) " The decision of such question depends
partly upon the view which should be taken of the character
of the holding under which the university now possesses certain property, which is described in the finding of the sur-

CORNELL UNIVERSITY .v. FISKE.
Opinion of the. Court.

rogate as property derived from the nation and State, and
which he finds amounted to $2,088,012.18, and which was
made up, as he also finds, of Western land contracts, $439,,
834.22, and of Western lands to the amount of $1,648,178.56,
and he states, as part of his finding, that this total of $2,088,012.78 was due or payable by the university to the Statei or,
in other words, that the university owed the State that sum, and
consequently it should not be regarded as any part of its property This finding has not been concurred in by the, general
term, which has modified it by holding that the same 's to be
taken into account as part of the property of the university
The state of facts under which the question arises is undisputed, and it becomes a question of law as to what is the
proper legal inference to be drawn from the undisputed facts,
and the decision of that question is reviewable in this court."
On the 2d of July, 1862, Congress passed the following aci
(12 Stat. 503, c. 130)
"An act donating public lands to the several States and
Territories which. may provide colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Bepresentative&
of the United States-of Amer.ca m Congress assembled, That
there be granted to the several States, for the purposes hereinafter-mentioned, an amount of public land, to be apportioned
to each State a quantity equal to thirty thousand acres for
each senator and representative in Congresg to which the
States are respectively entitled by the apportionmant under
the census of eighteen hundred and sixty Prowded,That no
mineral lands shall be selected or purchased under the provisions of this act.
"S1.c. 2. And be it further enacted, That the land aforesaid, after being surveyed, shall be apportioned to the several
States in sections or subdivisions of sections, not'less than onequarter of a section,. and whenever there are public lands in a
State subject to sale at private entry at one dollar and twentyfive cents per acre, the quantity to which said State shall be
entitled 6hall be selected from-such lands within the limits of
such State, and the Secretary of the Interibr is hereby directed.
VOL. cxxxvi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to issue to each of the States in which there is not the quantity of public lands subject to sale at private entry at one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, to which said State may
be entitled under the provisions of this act, land 'scrip to the
amount in acres for the deficiency of its distributive share,
said scrip to be sold by said States, and the proceeds thereof
applied to the uses and purposes prescribed in this act, and for
no other use or purpose whatsoever _Prowded, That in no
case shall any State to which land scrip may thus be issued be
allowed to locate the same within the li'mits of any other
'State, or of any Territory of the United States, but their
assignees may thus locate said land scrip upon any of the
unappropriated lands of the United States subject to sale at
private entry at one dollar and twenty-five cents, or less, per
acre And provded,further, That not more than one million
acres shall be located by such assignees in any one of the
States And jprowded,further, That no such location shall be
made before one year from the passage of this act.
"SEc. 3. And be itfurtherenacted, That all the expenses of
management, superintendence, and taxes from date of selection of said lands, previous to their sales, and all expenses
incurred in the management and disbursement of the moneys
which may be received therefrom, shall be paid by the States
to which they may belong, out of the treasury of said States,
so that the entire proceeds of the sale of said lands shall be
applied without any diminution whatever to the purposes
hereinafter mentioned.
"SEc. 4. And be st further enacted, That all moneys derived
from the sale of the lands aforesaid by the States to which the
lands are apportioned, and from the sales of land scrip hereinbefore provided for, shall be invested in stocks of the United
States, or of the States, or some other safe stocks, yielding
not less than five per centuin upon the par value of said stocks,
and that the moneys so invested shall constitute a perpetual
fund, the capital of which shall remain forever undiminished,
(except so far as may be provided in section fifth of this act,)
and the interest of which shall be inviolably appropriated, by
each State which may take and claim the benefit of this act,

CORNELI UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opinion of the Court.

to the endowment, support and maintenance of at least one
college where the leading object shall be, without excluding
other scientific and classical studies, and including military
tactics, to teach such branches of learning as are related to
agriculture and the mechanic arts, in such manner as the legislatures of the States may respectively prescribe,. in order to.
promote the liberal and practical education of the industrial
classes in the several pursuits and professions in life.
"SEC. 5. And bet furte enacted, That the grant of land.
and land scrip hereby authorized shall be made on the following conditions, to which, as well as to the provisions hereinbefore contained, the previous assent of the several States
shall be signified by legislative acts.
"First. If any portion of the fund invested, as provided by
the foregoing section, or any portion of the interest thereon,
shall, by any action or contingency, be diminished'or, lost, it
shall be replaced by the State to which it belongs, so that the
capital of the fund shall remain forever undiminished, and the
annual interest shall be regularly applied without diminution
to the purposes mentioned in the fourth section of this act.,
except that a sum, not exceeding ten per centum upon the
amount received by any State under the provisions of this act,
may be expended for the -purchase of lands for sites or experimental farms, whenever authorized by the respective legislatures of said States.
"Second. No portion of said fund, nor the interest thereon,
shall -be applied, directly or indirectly, under any pretence
whatever, to the purchase, erection, preservation, or repair of
any building or buildings.
"Third. Any State which may take -and claim the benefit
-of the provisions of this act shall provide, within five years, at
least not less than one college, as described in the fourth secton of this act, or the grant to such State shall cease, and
said State shall be bound-to pay the United States the amount
received of any lands previously sold, and that the title to purchasers under the State:shall be valid.
"Fourth. An annual report shall be made regarding the progress of each college, recording any improvements and exper-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

iments made, with their costs and results, and such other
matters, including state industrial and economical statistics, as
may be supposed useful one eopy of which shall be transmitted by mail free, by each, to. all the other colleges which
may be endowed under the provisions qf this act, and also one
copy to the Secretary of the Interior.
"Fifth. When lands shall be selected from those which
have been raised to double the minimum price, in consequence
of railroad grants, they shall be computed to the States at
the maximum price, and the number of acres proportionally
diminished.
"Sixth. No State while in a condition of rebellion or insurrection against the government of the United States shall be
entitled to the benefit of this act.
"Seventh. No State shall be entitled to the benefits of tis
act unless it shall express its acceptance thereof by its legislature within two years from the date of its approval by the
President.
"SEc. 6. And be itfarther enacted, That land scrip issued
under the provisions of this act shall not be subject to location
until after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three.
"SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That the land officers
shall receive the same fees for locating land scrip issued under
the provisions"of this act as is now allowed for the location of
military bounty land warrants under existing laws, Provmded,
Their maximum compensation shall not be thereby increased.
"SEC.'8. And be tt further enacted, That the governors of
.the several States to which scrip shall be issued under this act
shall be required to report annually to Congress all sales made
of such scrip until the whole shall be disposed of, the amount,
received for the same, and what appropriation has been made
of the proceeds."
On the 5th of May, 1863, the legislature of the State of
New York passed an act, (Laws of New York of 1863, c.
460,) entitled " A n act relative to the lands granted to this
State by the act of Congress entitled 'An act donating public
lands to the several States and Territories which may provide

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opinion of the Court.

colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts,'
approved second 'July, eighteen hundred and sLxty-two, and
authorizing the sale thereof, and the investment of the proceeds of such sales." By this act, the State duly accepted.the.
grant and gave its assent to the conditions thereof. The
CQmptroller was authorized to receive the land scrip, (as the
State had no public lands of the United States, unappropriated, within its borders,) and to sell the same, and to make all
necessary arrangements, employ agents, etc., as he. deemed
expedient, for effecting a judicious sale of such scrip. .Land
,scrip representing 989,920 acres of land was then issued bythe Secretary of the Interior to the Comptroller, and. was
embraced in 6187 pieces of scrip for 160 acres each. The
Comptroller sold scrip for 68,000 acres at the rate of 85 cents
an acre, and for 8000 at 83 cents an acre.
By an act passed May 14, 1863, (Laws of New York, of
1863, c. 511,) the legislature appropriated the income and
revenue which might be received from the investment of 'the
proceeds of the sale of any of the lands granted to the State
by the act of Congress of July%2, 1862, to the People's College, located at Havana, in Schuyler County, on certain conditions expressed in the act.
On the 27th of April,. 1865, (Laws .9f New York of 1865,
c. 585,) the legislature passed an act creating Cornell University as a corporation, and appropriating to it the "income, revenue and avails which shall be received from the
investment of the proceeds of the sale of the lands, or of the
scrip therefor," granted to the State by the act of Congress
of July 2, 1862,. to be paid over to the trustees of the university "for its use and behoof; in the mode and for the purposes
in said act of Congress defined." This gift was expressed in,
the act to be upon the condition that Ezra Cornell should give
$500,000 to the university and $25,000 to the trustees of
Genesee College, located at Lima, New York, and the provisions of the act were to take effect only in case of. the noncompliance of the trustees of the People's College -at Havana
with the provisions of the act of May 14, 1863. Section-5 ,of
the act of April 27, 1865, was in these wo~ds " 5. The cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

poration hereby created may hold real and personal property
to an amount not exceeding three millions of dollars in the
aggregate." Both of the gifts above specified were made by
Mr. Cornell.
In this state of things, as the Court of Appeals says in its
opinion (p. 116), "the great question then arising was in regard to the best means of disposing of such scrip for the best
price, so that the income for the university should be increased
to the greatest extent therefrom. The result of throwing into
market such an enormous amount of the public lands as had
been donated by Congress to the several States was a fall in
the market value of the land, and, of course, of the scrip which
represented it. In the fall of 1865, Mr. Cornell-had purchased
some scrip of the comptroller, representing 100,000 acres, for
$50,000, and had given his bond for that sum upon condition
that all the profits which should accrue from the sale of the
land should be paid to the Cornell University"
The legislature then passed, on the 10th of April, 1866, an
act (Laws of New York, of 1866, c. 481) entitled "An act
to authorize and facilitate thle early disposition by the Comp'troller of the lands or land scrip donated to this State by
the United States," and which was in the following words.
"SEcTrO
1. The Comptroller is hereby authorized to fix the
price at which he will sell and dispose of any or of all the
lands or land scrip donated to this State by the United States
of America, by act of Congress approved July second, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, and entitled 'A n act donating
public lands to the several States and Territories which may
provide colleges for instruction in agriculture and the mechanic
arts.' Such price shall not be less than at the rate of thirty
cents per acre for said lands. Hle may contract for the sale
thereof and sell the same to the trustees of the Cornell University If the said trustees shall not agree with the said Comptroller for the purchase thereof, then the commissioners oi the land
office may receive from any person or personm an application for
the purchase of the whole or any part thereof at the price so
fixed by the said Comptroller, and may, if they are satisfied
that the said person or persons will fully carry out and perform

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opunon of the Court.

the agreement hereinafter mentioned, sell the same or any part
thereof to the said person or persons. But said trustees or
such person or persons shall at the same time make an agreement and give security for the performance thereof to the
satisfaction of the Comptroller, to the effect that the whole
net avails and profits from the sale of scrip or the location and
use by the said trustees, person or persons, of the said lands
or of the lands located under said scrip, shall from time to
time as such net avails or profits are received, be paid over
and devoted to the purposes of such institution or institutions
as have been or shall be created by the act chapter five hundred and eighty-five of the laws of eighteen hundred and
sixty-five, of the State of New York, in accordance -with the
provisions of the act of Congress hereinbefore mentioned. And
the said trustees, person or persons to whom the said lands or
scrip shall be sold, shall report to the Comptroller annually,
under such oath and in such form as the Comptroller shall direct,
the amount of land or scrip sold, the prices at which the same
have been sold, and the amount of money received therefor,
and the amount of expenses incurred in the location and sale
thereof.
"12. The Comptroller is authorized from time to time as he
shall see fit, to make such examination into the actions and
doings of his vendees of said lands or scrip therewith as he
shall deem necessary to ascertain and determine what are the
net avails of the said lands or scrip from the sale or from the
location and use thereof by his said vendees.
" 3. This act shall take effect immediately
Under this act, the Comptroller fixed the price of the land
at fifty cents per acre, which, under all the circumstances, was
considered a fair amount. The trustees of the university did
not apply to purchase the scrip under the act of 1866, and on,
the 4th of August, 1866, the commissioners of the land office
made an agreement with Ezra Cornell for the sale to him of
all the remaining scrip undisposed of, represented by 5087
certificates of 160 acres each. The agreement was entered
into between the commissioners and -r. Cornell, under the
authority of the above act of 1866, and was in these words

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"This agreement, made this fourth day of August, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, between the People of the State of New
York, through their commissioners of the land office, acting
under and by virtue of chapter 481 of the Laws of 1866, of the
first part, and Ezra Cornell of Ithaca, N. Y., of the second
part, witnesseth
"That the said party of the first part hereby agrees to sell
and assign and deliver to the party of the second part all of
the agricultural land scrip now in the possession or ownership
of the State of New York, consisting of five thousand and
eighty-seven certificates, each representing one hundred and
sixty acres, on the following terms and conditions
"First. That said party of the second part shall receive
said scrip, from time to tune, as the same can be judiciously
located, in parcels representing not less than twenty-five thousand acres, paying therefor into the treasury of the State, on
its assignment and delivery to him by the Comptroller, at the
rate of thirty cents per acre. in lawful money of the United
States, or in the stocks of the United States, or of the State of
New York, or in other good and safe stocks or bonds, to be
approved by the Comptroller and drawing not less than five
per cent interest per annum, and at the same time depositing
with the Comptroller stocks or bonds to be approved by him,
to an amount equal to an additional thirty cents per acre, as
security for the fulfilment, by the party of the second part, of
the conditions of this agreement, so far as they relate to the
execution of a mortgage to the State on the land to be entered
and located with said scrip, on the fulfilment of which said
stock or bonds so deposited as security shall be returned to
said part- of the second part.
" Second. That whenever any parcel of scrip, sold and delivered to the said party of the second part, under and by
virtue of this agreement, shall have been located by him or
his agents, the said party of the second part hereby agrees
that he will, without delay, furnish to the Commissioners of
the Land Office of this State, or to some member thereof, to
be designated -by a resolution of the board, a full and completo list and description of the land so located. And said

CORIELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opumon of the Court.

:Board of Commissioners shall, within at, least sixty days
thereafter, and from time to time subsequently as may be
found expedient, affix a minimum valuation by quarter sections, at which the same may be sold by said party of the
second part. And the said party of the second part further
agrees, that he will annually, and from time to, time, whenever required by the Commissioners of the Land Office, render,
for their information, to the Comptroller, a full, just and true
account of all sales and leases made by him, said report to be
made in such form and under such oath as the Comptroller
shall direct, and will pay into the treasury of the State the
whole of the net profits arising therefrom, which shall be ascertained by deducting from the gross receipts on sales the original cost of thirty cents per acre, the cost and expenses attending
the location, management and sale of said lands, the taxes
assessed and paid on the same by the party of the second part,
and the interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum on
the several amounts actually expended and liabilities incurred
for such purposes. But it is expressly agreed by the party of
the second part that he will not sell any portion of said lands
at a price below the minimum valuation thereon, which may
from time to time be fixed by the Commissioners of the Land
Office, without first obtaining their consent to do so in
writing.
"11Thrd.That the stipulations and conditions of this agreement shall apply to each and every parcel of scrip assigned
and delivered to said party of the second part under this
agreement, -and the Comptroller shall defer or suspend further
assignments and deliveries of scrip whenever the party of the
second part fails to perform such stipulations and conditions
in.
respect to any scrip sold and delivered to him under this
agreement, until they have. been complied with. Except,.
nevertheless, that stocks or bonds as security for the return
and mortgage of lands located under scrip issued to the party
of the second part, shall in no case be required when there
shall remain in the hands of the Comptroller, by virtue of
this agreement, mortgaged lands not released, equal in quantity to the scrip which may be issued to the party of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

second part, and remain not located and mortgaged as provided by this agreement.
" Fourth. That as often as and whenever the party of the
second part shall furnish a description of any of the lands
selected and located by him under and by virtue of said scrip,
he shall immediately execute a mortgage thereon to the people of this State, to be approved by the Attorney General,
conditioned that the said party of the second part will fully
keep and perform each and every of the terms and conditions
he is required to do, keep and perform. And this agreement
is declared to be a continuing agreement, and a suit or suits
at law or in equity may be from time to time instituted and
mnaintained thereon, and upon any or all of said mortgages,
for any violation of such terms and conditions, whenever such
violation may occur. Said mortgages shall be delivered to
the Comptroller, or to the Commissioners of the Land Office.
".Fifth. Whenever the party of the second part shall sell
or dispose of any section of the lands acquired by him under
this agreement, and pay into the treasury of the State the net
profits resulting from such sale, after the deductions hereinbefore mentioned and provided for, the party of the first part
shall execute and deliver to the party of the second part a full
and sufficient release of the portion sold from the lien of the
mortgage, so that a clear title can be vested in the purchaser
or purchasers.
"1,Sixth. That of the moneys arising from sales or leases
made by the party of the second part, and paid into the state
treasury, as herein provided, a proportion equal to thirty cents
per acre shall be added to a-ad form a part of the fund known
and designated on the records of the Comptroller's office as
the 'College Land Scrip Fund,' and the remainder shall constitute a separate and distinct fund, which shall be the property of the Cornell University, to be known as the 'Cornell
Endowment Fund,' the principal of which shall forever remair unimpaired, the income to be annually appropriated by
the legislature, and paid over from time to time to the trustees of the Cornell University, to be by them devoted to the
purposes ci the institution.

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opinion of the Court.

"Nsventh. That the said party of the second part further
agrees to purchase the whole of the aforesaid'scrip and select
and locate lands under and by virtue thereof, and execute
mortgages thereon as hereinbefore provided, within four years
from -the date hereof, and that he Will sell the lands within
twenty years from- date, and pay the net profits arising from
such sales into the treasury of this State, and until the same
shall be so sold and the net profits so paid he will pay all
taxes which may be assessed thereon, and preserve and maintam a title thereto unimpaired, to which the liens created by
said mortgages shall attach. And if any event shall occur
making it needful for the people of this State to incur any
expense to preserve the lien of said mortgages, the same shall
be paid out of tlbe proceeds of the sales of said lands. And
if, after the expiration of the period.,of four years hereinbefore fixed, any of said scrip shall remain with this State, and
not have been paid for by the party of the second part, the
same -shall be released thereafter from the conditions and
stipulations of this agreement."
The Court of Appeals says (p. 122) "There was no sum
provided in the act o Congress for the sale of the scrip. It
was in the discretion of the State to sell it at any price it
could obtain, either at public or private sale, and it could sell'
the whole or any part of such scrip at any time, but the proceeds of such sale were to be invested under the act of Congress and the income applied as therein provided for. If there
be any ambiguity in the 'meaning of the agreement as a
whole, it is not improper to see what meaning was attached
to it by the persons who executed it, if possible, and also to
lo6k at the surrounding facts, so that we may place ourselves
in the same position as the contracting parties and thus learn
what was in contemplation.
"It is known that at the time of the passage of the act of
April 10, 1866, sales of the scrip had almost ceased.. It was
thought that there was a good chance that the land which
might be located under this scrip would in the future greatly
appreciate in value, and it .was the wish of those interested in
its welfare that the university. should, in some way, reap the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

benefit of this increase. But it had no funds to purchase the
scrip, and it needed ready money as an income to aid it in the
dischare of its duties as an educational institution. Hence
the problem was to find some one who would purchase the
scrip and pay for it, and then locate and sell the lands at the
higher prices which it was hoped they would attain and give
the profits to the university A glance at the correspondence
.between Mr. Cornell and the Comptroller, and at the minutes
of the proceedings of the Land Commissioners, and the other
evidence in the case, shows that there was no one else than
Mr. Cornell who was ever thought of as a person who would
take upon himself such burdens, troubles, labors and responsibilities, for the purpose of giving away all the profits which
might, in the future, arise from such sales. It is seen by reference to that correspondence that Mr. Cornell and the Comptroller differed in regard to the construction of the act, the
Comptroller holding that the act really meant that the net
avails of the scrip should be placed under the custody of the
State,while it may be inferred that the idea of Mr. Cornell
was that the proftts, after paying the original thirty cents and
the additional thirty cents (if realized) as the purchase price of
the scrip, might be-placed as he should choose, provided the
university should receive the benefit of the whole income
arising from such profits. Under date of June 9, 1866, Mr.
Cornell, in his letter to the Comptroller, speaks of his differing
with the Comptroller m his construction of the law, but adds
'Appreciating, as I do most fully, your motives for desiring
to give the utmost possible security and permanency to the
funds which are, in a great degree, to constitute the endowment
of the Cornell University, I shall most cheerfully accept your
views so far as to consent to. place the entire profits, to be
derived from the sale of the lands to be located with the college land scrip, in the treasury of the State, sf the State will
-receve the money as a separatefund from that which may be
dervedfrom the sale of scrzp, and will keep it permanently
snvested and appropmate the proceeds from the ncome thereof
annually to the Cornell University, subject to the direetzon of
;the trustees thereof,for the generalpurposes of sad vnstituthon,

CORNELL -UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.

189.

Opinion of the Court.

and not to hold st subject to the restrzctions which the act of
Congress laces ulon the fund dervable from the sale of the
college land scrzp or as a donation from the government of
the Unted States, but as a donation from Bzra Cornell to the
Cornell Unsversity.'
"M r. Cornell thus plainly understood that the purchase
price of the scrip from the State was thirty cents An acre, with
a possible thirty cents more if he should realize that sum on
the sale of the land, and that any sum beyond that came to
him as profits on-his sale of the scrip or land to third parties,
and that sum, being his own profits, he was willing to donate
to the university, and for that purpose to pay the same into
the treasury of the State, the same to be invested and the
income therefrom to be paid by the State to the university
ior the general purposes of the institution, and not as part of
the purchase price of the scrip to be invested under the act of
Congress. It was after the receipt of this letter that the
agreement was made, the subdivision six containing, in substance, the provision asked for by Mr. Cornell.
"While in some portions of this agreement, if read alone
and laying aside all knowledge of the. contemporary history of
the events surrounding it, there might arise some doubt as
to the meaning of such portion, yet when read as a whole and
in the light of those events, I think no real and grave doubt can
exist as to ,the meaning of this instrument. It seems clear to
my mind that the State sold this land scrip at thirty cents per
acre, with, an additional thirty cents if so much should thereafter be realized upon. the sale by the vendee of the State, and
that this constitutes the purchase price of such scrip, which,
when assigned to Mr. Cornell by the State, in-accordance with
the terms of the-contract, he, became the. legal owner of. He,
it is true, also agreed that his profits should. be paid, into the
treasury of the State, but they were to be paid therein a&
profits and not as any portion of the purchase price of the
scrip, and they were to be paid, and were m fact paid, as:
profits of Mr. Cornell, and they were received under thatagreement as the property of the Cornell University, the.
incofie of which was to be paid to -itfor its general purposes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and the principal was to constitute the Cornell endowment
fund. I cannot see that in all this there was nothing but an
agency created in behalf of the State, and that Mr. Cornell
was such agent, and that the whole profits realized were really
nothing but the proceeds of the sale of the lands by the State.
The State, on the contrary, by the very terms of -the agreement, sold the scrip, and the legal title, by patents from the
government of the United States, was vested in Mr. Cornell
when he located the lands under the scrip which he had pur
chased, and took out his patents upon such location. Neither
can I see that the purchaser of the scrip gave or intended to
give, or was supposed to give, his profits as part of such purchase price. His agreemert is plain, and in it he stated what
such purchase price was, and what he would give for the scrip,
and the fact that he agreed to pay his profits, if any were
realized, into the treasury of the State, as the. property of the
university, which was to have the income thereof paid over to
it for its general purposes, does not, to my mind, render such
profits any portion of the purchase price of the scrip. They
were profits which he hoped to be able to realize in the future,
but were entirely speculative in character and amount, dependent largely upon the judgment with which the lands were
located, and the time and manner of their sale. All this Mr.
Cornell was willing to do for this university, but the agreement shows that he was to do it as a gift of his own, and not
as a mere agent of the State or of the United States, and that
all the compensation he sought for his services, his trouble and
his responsibilities, great and onerous as they were, was the
fact that all this should go to the university as his gift, and
the State become the custodian of the profits under a duty to
appropriate the income to the trustees for the general purposes of the university
"The counsel for the institution may be entirely right in
his statements as to the law regarding this branch of the
question, if he is right in the fundamental proposition as to
the _profits being a part of the purchase price or the avails
of the sale of the scrip by the State, but until he can maintain
the correctness of that proposition, I do not think his argu-

CORNELL, UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opinion of the Court.

ment reaches the trouble. I do not think the proposition is
correct. The profits were the avails of the sale of the scrip
by Mr. Cornell, not in any sense the avails of the sale of the
scrip by the State. I think, also, that the agreement is fully
authorized by the act of April 10, 1866. It gives the right to
the Commissioners of the Land Office to sell the scrip, or any
part thereof, for the price which was to be fixed by the
Comptroller, and not less than thirty cents per acre. The
right to sell the scrip at the price fixed by the Comptroller
was based upon the condition that the persons who purchased
at such price should also agree to pay over the net avails or
profits from the sale by them of the scrip or lands located
under it, as they should be received, and that they should be
' devoted to the purposes of such institution. or institutions as
have been or shall be created by the act, chapter 585 of the
laws of 1865,' (the charter of Cornell University,) m accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress before mentioned. This does not mean that all these possible profits are
to be deposited in the state treasury, subject to the same rules
that would obtain in the case of the purchase price of the scrip,
but only that they shall be devoted to the institution created
by the act of 1865, in accordance with the provisions of the
act of Congress already mentioned. Of course the purchase
price- that which was fixed by the Comptroller - was to go
into'the treasury and be invested as provided for by the act
of Congress.
"The reference in the above section of the act of 1866 to
such institution or institutions as have been or shall be created
by the act, chapter 585 of the laws of 1865, can, of course, be
to none but the Cornell University, and hence the provision
in the agreement that the profits shall all be devoted to that
institution was proper. As that university had complied with
all the conditions imposed upon it by the State as a condition
to its rpght to receive all the income from this fund, the right
to it could not be taken from it. This the Commissioners of
the Land Office stated in their report to the constitutional
convention in answer to a request from that body for information as to this land scrip. And in this report, under date of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

July 22, 1867, the Comptroller, as a member of the Board of
Commissioners of the Land Office, and one of the officers who
executed the contract with Mr. Cornell in August, 1866, stated
as follows IIn deciding what portion of the income of the
money paid into the treasury under the agreement with Mr.
Cornell would be subject to this limitation' (set forth in the
act of Congress) 'as to its use and application, the Commissioners of the Land Office assumed that the prohibition
applied only to the purchase-money received by the- State on
a sale of the scrip, and that the ultimate profits to be derived
from the location and sale of the lands by the purchaser
formed no part of the purchase-money, and need not, therefore, be included. The nominal price, however, which was
fixed on the scrip by the act of 1866, and for which it was
sold, in consideration of the stipulation to pay over the net
profits, being less than the market rates, it was stipulated in
the sixth section of the agreement -that an additional thirty
cents per acre from the net profits should, when such profits
were paid into the treasury, be added to the purchase-money,
thus increasing the price to sixty cents per acre, the current
rate for the scrip at the date of the transaction, and limiting
the purposes to which it may be applied in conformity with
the terms of the grant by Congress.'
"Here, then, in addition to the language as used in the
agreement itself, which when read as a whole seems to me
quite plain, we find what Mr. Cornell was willing to do, as set
forth in his letter to the Comptroller above quoted from, in
which he claims the act permitted it, and he would donate the
profits as a gift from himself to the university, and we find
in an official report of one of the officers executing the contract, speaking for himself and associates, what was their
understanding of this agreement. From all sources, the agreement itself and the separate views of the parties to it, it
appears the construction should be, and was, that the profits
formed no part of the purchase price or the avails of the sale
of the scrip by the State, (over the thirty cents per acre if
realized,) and that such profits belonged to the university by
the gift of Mr. Cornell, the vendee of the scrip from the State,

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. 'FISKE.
Opinion of the Court.

the income to -be paid to the'trustees of the university for the
general purposes of the same."
By an act passed May 4, 1868, (Laws of New York, of 1868,
c. 554,) the legislature- authorized the Comptroller to invest the
moneys which might be received in excess of sixty cents per
acre, under the contract of August. 4, 1866, and which thereunder went into "the Cornell Endowment Fund," not only in
stocks of the United States or of the State of New York, or
in some other safe stocks yielding not less than five per 'cent
per annum on the par value thereof, (according to the restriction in section 4 of the act of Congress of July 2, 1862,) but
also "on bonds secured by mortgage upon unincumbered real
estate, situated within this State, worth at least double the
amount secured by such mortgage." The statute also provided as follows ".The said fund and the interest and income
thereof, subject to the expenses of the care and management
of the same, shall be held for and devoted to the purposes
of the said Cornell University, in pursuance of the contract
before mentioned."
As to this statute, the Court of Appeals says (p. 127)
"This must be taken as a legislative recognition of the fact
that the agreement of sale to Mr. Cornell was for thirty
(possibly sixty) cents an acre, and that all profits belonged to
.Hr. Cornell, but that by an agreement he had agreed to give
them to the university for the general purposes thereof. We
cannot assume that the State would have run counter to the
express provisions of the act of Congress, by enacting that the
purchase price of the scrip might be invested in a manner
forbidden by that act."
In 1873, the legislature appointed a commission consisting
of William A. Wheeler, John D. Van Buren, and Horatio
Seymour, to ascertain the condition of the land grant and to
report whether the acts of Congress and of the legislature had
been complied with in the sale and disposition of the lands.
The first two.named of the commissioners reported, in April,
1874, that the profits realized by Mr. Cornell from the sale of
the lands formed part of the purchase price of the scrip, while
Governor Seymour reported that he was of a contrary opinion.
VOL. CxxxVw-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

The legislature ultimately, and by an act passed May 18,
1880, (Laws of New York, of 1880, c. 317,) directed the Comptroller, upon the request of Cornell University, to assign,
transfer, pay and deliver to the latter "all moneys, securities,
stocks, bonds and contracts, constituting a part of or relating
to the fund known as the Cornell Endowment Fund, now
held by the State for the use of said university" This was
done because, under an agreement made between Ezra Cornell
and his wife and the university, on the'13th of October, 1874,
with the consent of the Comptroller and the Commissioners of
the Land Office, Mr. Cornell and his wife had conveyed to the
university all their rights under any agreement between him
and the State relating to the land scrip or to any lands
located or to be located under it, and the university had covenanted that it- would assume and perform all the agreements
made between him and the State in reference to'the land scrip
or the land, and would discharge his obligations held by the
State. The university had paid to the State a part of the
additional thirty cents per acre which the State was to receive, if realized, as the purchase price of the scrip.
On all these facts the Court of Appeals says, in its opinion
(p. 128) "The State has made and makes no claim that -any
portion of these profits over the thirty cents an acre forms
any portion of the purchase price of the sale of the scrip by it.
The university by its agreement with Mr. Cornell and by taking exactly his position, and by receiving the moneys and
securities of the Cornell endowment fund by virtue of the act
of 1880, clearly has taken the position that it was the owner
of this fund, and was not indebted to the State therefor. Its
reports show that they (the trustees of the university), claimed
that it had no debts, and they acknowledged none to the State
on account of this fund. If it existed, it would certainly be a
somewhat onerous position for the State to be in. It must
have all the proceeds of the sale of this scrip, including in
such case all the profits. of the past and what may hereafter
arise, it must pay all expenses, etc., after location, in the way
of taxes, and all incurred in the management and disbursement of the moneys, and must invest in -stocks of the kind

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opmion of the Court.

described in the act of Congress, and must forever guarantee
the whole amount, -so that if any of the principal is lost it
must be supplied by the State, and it must pay over the five
per cent interest on the whole of this fund to the university
This, of course, does-not weigh in case the decision were that
the law is in that condition. For the reasons already. given, I
do not think it is."
On the question whether the legislation of 'New York, or
the agreement of August 4, 1866, was in violation of the -act
of. Congress, the Court of Appeals says (p. 129) "Interpreted
as we have interpreted the agreement and the act of the legislature of New York, the remaining inquiry is, does the New
York statute, or the agreement under it, run counter to the
act of Congress creating this land scrip trust2 I think not.
It provides that all moneys derived from the sale of the land
scrip by the State shall be invested, etc., as therein prescribed.
The scrip is to be sold by the State, which could not itself
locate the land, and the avails of such sale are to be invested.
The avails of the sale of the scrip by the State were the purchase price thereof, and if I am right, that the profits formed
no part of such purchase price, but were the property of the
vendee of the State, which he agreed to give to the university for general purposes, as his gift and to form the property
of the university, then, the act of Congress has no concern
*with it.
"Another consideration may be adverted- to. It is exceedingly doubtful, in my mind, whether the university can be
heard to claim the existence of this alleged debt under 'the
facts of this case. The State has made, and makes, no claim
upon the university for the property or any portion of it. It
was placed in its possession by virtue of the consent of the
State, evidenced by the passage of an act authorizing and directing it. The university has claimed to be the owner of it, and
no one has drawn its rightful title in question. Can. it now,
while -enjoying, without hostile claim from any source, the full
control of, the property, as its absolute owner, set up, as a
reason why it should be allowed to take other property, that
perhaps hereafter some one may make a claim that the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

erty does not belong to the university, but that it is a trust
fund originating in the act of Congress 2 If the State or the
United States were to commence some proceeding, based on
the counsel's argument, to reclaim possession of the property,
there is nothing in the present attitude of the university
which would necessarily estop or in any way conclude it from
denying that any such trust exists, or that any case had been
made for taking the possession of the property out of its
hands. So far as appears, it seems that this assumed indebtedness is entirely gratuitous on its part, and that there is no
creditor who makes the claim, no one who questions its title.
It is going a good ways, under such circumstances, to lay
much weight on a liability which, up to this proceeding, was
never admitted by the university, and is not now asserted by
any one else. It would seem as if property which was thus
in the possession of the corporation, unclaimed by any one
else, was held by it within the meaning of its charter, and
that the question in regard to the character of its holding was
merely an abstract one with which courts would not deal, at
least so far as this proceeding is concerned.
"In all these matters it must be borne in mind the parties
have all been acting in the most entire and perfect good faith.
This was no scheme to avoid or evade the provisions of the
act of Congress. The price of sixty cents an acre which the
State got for the land was all it was worth at that time. Its
future value depended upon many contingencies. The State
had the right to sell the scrip for such price as it might agree on
on with a purdhaser. This it did. The university wanted money
to pay its expenses. It could not very well wait for twenty or
even five years for the purpose of seeing how the value of this
scrip would appreciate, if at all. The legislature was equally
in earnest in its desire for the prosperity of the institution,
so were the state officers, and, above and beyond all, so was
Mr. Cornell, its generous founder, and already the donor of
such a large amountof money Taking all the circumstances
into consideration, the plan carried out was hit upon, and the
amount of the Cornell endowment fund and the property
arising therefrom must be regarded as a gift of the donor and

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
'Opinion of the Court..

founder, and not as a violation of either the act of Congress,
or of the act of our own legislature."
The Court of Appeals then states (p. 131) the position of the
university with reference to the value of its property as follows:
*Funds from individuals, (including the value of the university
buildings, farm, grounds, etc., at $69,683.33,) as fixed by the
surrogate, $598,588.65, Western lands, $1,648,178.56, Western land contracts, $439,334.22, total, $2,686,101.43. It states
that the Supreme Court advanced the $69,683.33 to "$385,000,"
being an advance of "$315,316.67," and that, adding this
$15,316.67 to the $2,686,101.43 makes a total of $3,001,418.10,
without counting as property the College Land Scrip Fund in
the hands of the State.
The statement that the Supreme Court advanced the
$69,683.33 to $385,000 would appear by the record to be a
clerical error, for, although Judge Merwin, in his opinion in
the Supreme Court, states that the appellants there were
entitled to a finding that the property represented by the item
of $69,683.33 was, at the date of the death of Mrs. Fiske, of
the value "at least" of $385,000, the judgment of the Supreme
Court expressly adjudges that the item of $69,683.33 is fixed
by it at $400,000, and that it finds that the value of the property of the university held and owned by it at .the death of
Mrs. Fiske was $3,015,414.71. But, in either case, the amount
-exceeded $3,000,000.
We concur with the Court of Appeals in the conclusion that
the sixty cents per acre was the purchase price of the land
'scrip, that, under the agreement of August 4,1866, the profits
to be made by Mr. Cornell, although to be paid into the treasury of the State, were not any portion of the purchase price
of the scrip, but were to be paid in, and were in fact paid in,
as his profits, and were received by the State, as the sixth
section of the agreement states, as, "a separate and distinct
fund, which shall be the property of the Cornell Uiversity, to
be known as the ' Cornell Endowment Fund,'" and that tte
-income of the money was to be paid to the university for its
general purposes, and the principal was to constitute the "Corpell Endowment Fund."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals states that it cannot see that in all
this there was nothing but an agency created in behalf of the
State, and that Mr. Cornell was such agent, and that the whole
profits were really nothing but the proceeds of the land scrip
sold by the State. In this connection, a reference may not be
inappropriate to the clear and incisive statement of Governor
Seymour, in his minority report before referred to. After
stating that his associates were of opinion that the contract
was an actual sale to Mr. Cornell, but that all profits -made
from the land were part of the purchase-money, and so
subject to the restrictions of the act of Congress, Governor
Seymour says that he is forced to the conclusion that the construction which involves merging -the two funds into one is inconsistent with the pledges of the State to- Congress. He adds.
"When INew York accepted the grant of the general government, it did so with the full knowledge of this clause in the
act of Congress, viz. 'That the grant of land and of land scrip
hereby authorized shall be made on the following conditions, to
which, as well as to the provisions hereinbefore contained, the
previous assent of the several States shall be signified by legislative acts.' One of these conditions is, I that in no case shall any
State to which land scrip may thus be issued be allowed to locate
the same within the limits of any other State.' This State only
had the right to sell its scrip. If it has no right to locate
land openly and directly, can it do the same thing under cover
and indirectly 2 If the State can claim all the proceeds of the
lands entered by its scrip in the State of Wisconsin, after
deducting the costs of taxes and expenses and the price of its
scrip, does it not claim and get everything it would if the
land had been taken up in the name of the State 2 Is there
any stronger or clearer way of saying that a man is entitled
to all there is of value in any property, than to say he has
a right to all the money it will bring after paying taxes and
expenses 2 Does any citizen of our country hold a more ample
interest in land, by virtue of deeds or patents, than -.s held
by him who has a right to all that it will bring by sales or
leases, after paying taxes and expenses2 All of our citizens
who have lands in Western States, or elsewhere, in fact own

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Opinion of the Court

them upon these terms. Is the case in any way changed by
using the termprofit in place of the word proceeds, to express
the amount the State can claim by their construction of the
contract 2 Any construction of the contract with Mr. Cornell,
which makes the State the substantial owner of these lands
and converts the transactions into any agency, is not merely a
technical and'immaterial violation of its pledges. It conflicts
with the act of Congress and infringes in a serious way upon
the rights of Wisconsin and other States where the lands held
by Mr. Cornell are situated. The careful way with which the
law of Congress distinguishes between the proceeds of land
and of land scrip was designed to protect such States. But
for the restraints of the act the old States could enter all their
scrip at the land offices of the West. Their wealth would enable them to pay taxes and keep the lands from market for an
advance of price. For this reason the restriction was put into
the act. Ownership by this State under cover, no matter
what terms are used to hide its interests, or what objects or
pretexts are displayed as an excuse for its action, is a violation
of its pledges to Congress and of the rights and interests of
other States. As a rule, individuals are unable, for any
length of time, to hold large tracts of land. Nearly the whole
amount of scrip given by Congress to the several States has
been used by settlers to buy homes in the West, and has thus
promoted their prosperity Congress contemplated this when
it forbade one State to take up land within the bounds of another. The.agreement is a sale of the scrip to Mr. Cornell,
and the profits made by him out of the lands taken up by him
with the scrip, when given to the university, will be a gift for
the general purposes of the institution, ' and not subject to the.
restrictions of the act of Ccngress.' These profits will be the
result of his skill and labor. It is the intent of the act of 1862
that no State shall, under any pretence, in any manner, or in
any degree, acquire title or right to lands in another State."
We are of opinion that, by the terms of the agreement, the
State sold the scrip to Mr. Cornell, and that the legal title to
the lands located by him under the scrip was vested in him
whenhe took out patents upon such locatiotl. The terms of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, J.

the agreement show that-the profits which Mr. Cornell hoped
to realize from the sale of the lands, beyond the second thirty
cents per acre, were intended by both parties to the agreement
to be a gift from Mr. Cornell personally to the university,
and not from him as a mere agent of the State or of the
United States, and that the State became the custodian of
such profits, not under the act of Congress, but under the
duty which it assumed to take care of the fund as a fund
belonging to the university, as the property of the university,
and to appropriate the income to the trustees of the institution for its general purposes. The State has -provided, as
required by the act of Congress, for the investment in the
manner prescribed by that act, of the moneys derived from
the sale of the land scrip. It was under no obligation to treat
as falling within the provisions of the act of Congress any
other moneys than those derived from the sale of such scrip,
or any moneys derived from the sale of the lands which the
-purchaser of the scrip should locate and obtain patents for.
The State could not itself, or by an agent acting in its
behalf, locate or obtain patents for any land which the scrip
represented. Therefore, the claim of the university and of
Mr. IBoardman as executor, that the act of Congress was
violated in the transaction between the State and Mr. Cornell,
and that the moneys and property derived from the sale of
the- lands by Mr. Cornell formed, on the actual facts, no part.
of the $3,000,000 of property held by the university, is not
warranted by law
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State- of New
York, entered December 12, 1888, establishing as its judgment the judgment of the Court of Appeals of New York,
rendered November 27, 1888, affirming the judgment of the
Supreme Court herein, entered December 14, 1887, is
-Affii-med.
MR. JUSTICE BREwER (with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
GRAY) dissentingMR. JUSTICE GRAY and myself dissent from the views expressed and the conclusions reached in the foregoing opinion.

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, JJ.

By the act of Congress of July 2, 1862, making a grant, and
the act of the legislature of the State of New. York, of May
5, 1863, accepting the same, a trust was cieated in the State
of New York in respect to this land scrip. This is evident
from these sections: 12 Stat. c. 130, pp. 503-505.
"AN Acr donating the Public Lands to the several States and

Territories which may provide. Colleges for the Benefit of
Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts.
" Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatmes
-of the United States of Amersca ub Congress assembled, That
there be granted to the several States for the purposes hereinafter mentioned, an amount of public land, to be apportioned
to each State a quantity equal to thirty thousand acres for
each senator and representative in Congress to which the
States are respectively entitled. by the apportionment under
the census of eighteen hundred and sixty Provded, That no
miheral lands shall be selected or purchased under the provisions of this act.
"SCEc. 2. And be jtfurther enacted, That the land aforesaid,
after being surveyed, shall be apportioned to the several
States in sections or sub-divisions of sections, not less than one
quarter of a section, and whenever there are public lands in a
State subject to a sale at private entry at one dollar and
twenty-five cents -.per acre, the quantity to which said State
.shallbe entitled shall be selected from such lands within the
limits of such. State, and the Secretary of the Interior is
hereby directed to issue to each of the States in which there is
,not the quantity of public lands subject to sale at private
entry at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, to which
said State may '5e entitled. under the provisions of this act,
land scrip to the amount in acres for the deficiency of its distributive share; said scrip to be sold by said States and the
proceeds thereof applied to the. uses and purposes prescribed
in, this act, and for no other use or purpose whatsoever Pro
vtded, That in no case shall any' State to Which land scrip
may thus be issued be allowed to locate- the same within the
liniits of anfother State, or of any Territory of the United

OOTO ER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, JJ.

States, but their assignees may thus locate said land scrip upon
any of the unappropriated lands of the United States subject
to sale at private entry at one dollar and twenty-five cents, or
less, per acre And provmded further, That not more than one
million acres shall be located by such assignees in any one of
the States Andprovidedfurther,That no such location shall
be made before one year. from the passage of this act.
"SEa. 4. And be itfurther enacted, That all moneys derived
from the sale of the lands aforesaid by the States to which the
lands are apportioned, and from the sales of land' scrip hereinbefore provided for, shall be invested in stocks of the United
States, or of the States, or some other safe stocks, yielding not
less than five per centum upon the par value of said stocks,
and that the moneys so invested shall constitute a perpetual
fund, the capital of which shall remain forever undiminished,
(except so far as may be provided in section fifth of this act,)
and the interest of which shall be inviolably appropriated
by each State which may take and claim the benefit of this
act, to the endowment, support and maintenance of at least
one college where the leading object shall be, without excluding other scientific and classical studies, and including military
tactics, to teach such branches of learning as are related to
agriculture and the mechanic arts, in such manner as the legisl~tures of the States may respectively prescribe, in order to
promote the liberal and practical education of the industrial
classes in the several pursuits and professions in life.
"SEc. 5. Andbeitfurther enacted,That the grant of land and,
land scrip hereby authorized shall be made on the following
conditions, to which, as well as to the provisions herembefore
contained, the previous assent of the several States shall be
signified by legislative acts
"First. If any portion of the fund invested, as provided by
the foregoing section, or any portion of" the interest thereon,
shall, by any action or contingency, be diminished or lost, it
shall be replaced by the State to which it belongs, so that the
capital of the fund shall remain forever undiminished, and
the annual interest shall be regularly applied without diminuo

CORNEtL

UNIVERSITY'

.

VISKE.

Dissenting Opmion. Brewer, Gray, Z1J.

tion to the purposes mentioned in the fourth section of this
act, except that a sum, not exceeding ten per centum upon the
amount received by any State under the provisions of this act,
may be expended for- the purchase of lands for sites or experimental farms whenever authorized by the -respective legislatures of said States.
"Seventh. No State shall be entitled to the benefits of this
act. unless it shall express its acceptance thereof by its legislature within two years from the date of its approval by the
-President."
Under this statute, the action of the State designating-one
-eneficiary was not final, and it could withdraw, thereafter,
the income from one institution and .bestow it upon another,
even as it did, in fact, m this case, as shown by the record.
Suppose, hereafter, Cornell University should be so conducted
that its "leading object" should not be "to teach such
branches of learning as are related to agriculture and the
mechanic arts," as required by the act of Congress, it would
be. the right and the duty of the State to take the fund and
apply it to that purpose by other means and instruments.
The sacredness of the dfties cast upon a trustee, recognized
from time immemorial, obtains, and the subsequent transaction by which the land scrip was disposed of cannot be interpreted as if it were a disposition by an absolute owner of
his property .Atrustee may not speculate in respect to trust
,property for. his own benefit, or for the benefit of a friend, or
in favor of any institution. The fadt of a trust compels that
all received as the proceeds of trust property, directly or indirectly, must be adjudged forever within the obligations of that
trust.
The scrip became the -property of the State in trust. The
act of Congress determines the fact. the nature and extent of
the trust. It grants land, or in the absence of public lands
within the State, scrip to the corresponding amount. It provides, in section two, that where scrip is taken by a State, it
may be sold by it, "and the proceeds thereof applied to the
uses and purposes prescribed in this act, and .for no other use

'2011

OCTOBER TERMT, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion

Brewer, Gray, JJ.

or purpose whatsoever." Section three, while referring to the
land which may be taken under the act, indicates fully the
scope and intent of the trust, by enacting "that all the expenses
of management, superintendence and taxes from date of selection of said lands, previous to their sales, and all expenses
incurred in the management and disbursement of the moneys
which may be received therefrom, shall be paid by the States
to which they may belong, out of the treasury of said States,
so that the entire proceeds of the sale of said lands shall be
applied without any diminution whatever to the purposes hereinafter mentioned." Section four provides "that all moneys
derived from the sale of lands, and 'from the sales of land scrip,
shall be invested, etc., and that the moneys so invested shall
constitute a perpetual fund, the capital of which shall remain
forever undiminished, and the interest of which shall be inviolably appropriated, etc., specifying the purposes of the appropriation." Obviously the scope of this is, that all moneys
derived from this property, whether land or scrip, whether
obtained directly or indirectly, are consecrated to the purposes
designatea, and must be held by the State in trust forever.
Among the limitations provided is that expressed in the second clause in the fifth section, that "no portion of said fund,
nor the interest thereon, shall be applied, directly or indirectly,
under any pretence whatever, to the purchase, erection, preservation, or repair of any building or buildings." Nothing can
be clearer from this statute than that a State, accepting its
provisions, constituted itself a trustee, with the obligation that
it should devote to the purposes of the act all the -proceeds,
of the land or land scrip which it might obtain, directly or
,indirectly
The State of New York, having no public lands within its
limits, received scrip, but the scrip was subjected to the same
trust that land would have been subjected to, and was subjected to, when taken by any State. All expense in respect
to the location and management of the lands, or the ,invest,ment of the funds, was to be borne by the State, in order that
the net proceeus of this grant, no matter how obtained, should
.be appropriated to the purposes expressed. Hence, the State

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, JJ.

of New York, accepting the trust, was powerless to repudiate
its'obligations, or to provide for an. appropriation for any other
purposes, or under any other conditions, of the moneys which
might be received, directly or indirectly, from the disposition
of this trust property Prior to November 24, 1865, scrip to
the aggregate amount of 176,000 acres was sold at prices ranging from fifty to eighty-five cents -the average being sixtyfive, nearly
:The first selection of the beneficiary of this trust was the
People's College of Havana, but that selection was not satis-factory, and on April 27, 1865, Cornell University was established by act of the legislature of New York, and it was
designated as the beneficiary, the act providing, as a condition of this selection, that Cornell University should be
endowed to the extent of five hundred thousand dollars by
Ezra Cornell. The provision in  4 in its charter, that "the
corporation hereby created may hold real and personal property to an amount not exceeding three millions of dollars in
the aggregate," evidently means that the property of the
corporation shall not exceed three millions, after deducting
the amount of all its debts and obligations, And does, not
include property which the State might retake at any time,
and a forzwrt property which. the State, under a duty im-:
posed upon it by law, owned upon a trust which-it could not
divest itself of. Here,. a reference to Mr. Cornell, and his
connection with this- transaction, is appropriate. A man acquiring wealth by his own exertions, the dream of his later
years was a university, bearing his name, and so munificently
endowed as to become, like Yale and Harvard, a centre of
learning; and his purchase of the scrip, and his transaction
with the State, must be interpreted in the line of this
thought. It was the glory of a great university which he
hoped to realize-one which would link his name with its
glory The, means were subordinate- the glory and strength
of Cornell University -was the purpose. Unquestionably inspired by his thought and wish, on April 10, :1866, the legislature passed an act for tho future disposal of the scrip, and
authorized the Comptroller to fix its price; That price was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, JJ.

not to be less than thirty cents per acre. The act also provided that he might contract for the sale thereof to the trustees of Cornell University, and that, if they did not purchase,
the Commissioners of the Land Office might contract for the
sale to any person or persons; but added, expressly, that "said
trustees or such person or persons shall at the time make an
agreement and give security for the performance thereof to
the satisfaction of the Comptroller, to the effect that the
whole net avails and profits from the sale of scrip or the location and use by the said trustees, person or persons of the
said lands or of the lands located under said scrip, shall from
time to time, as such net avails or profits are received, be
paid over and devoted to the purposes of such institution
or institutions as have been or shall be created by the act,
chapter five hundred and eighty-five of the laws of eighteen
hundred and sixty-five, of the State of New York, in accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress hereinbefore
mentioned. And the said trustees, person or persons to
whom the said lands or scrip shall be sold, shall report to
the Comptroller, annually, under such oath and in such form
as the Comptroller shall direct, the amount of land or scrip
sold, the prices at which the same have been sold, and the
amount of money received therefor, and the amount of expenses incurred in the location and sale thereof."
This act has a twofold aspect It is the legislation of a
sovereign State, prescribing the duties and powers of one of
its officials, and it is also a declaration of the duties cast by a
trustee upon its agent in respect to trust property In either
aspect, its voice is potential in respect to that which was
under the authority thereafter done by official or agent. It
must be borne in mind that the State had no land -nothing
but scrip. This fact was known, and must be recognized in
any interpretation of the powers granted. What were theyl
First, to sell for cash, at a price not less than that to be fixed
by the Comptroller. Second, and this was obviously in view
of propositions or suggestions made by Mr. Cornell as to what
he ias willing to do, that if no sale for cash was made, the
scrip might be disposed of to any one who would give to this

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FIS]E.
Dissenting Opinion Brewer, Gray, JJ.

fund the full benefit of. any profits made by the location of
the scrip upon public lands. Can it be doubted, under such a
statute, that, if -no absolute sale for cash was made, and the
alternative proposition was finally'accepted by the official and
agent of the State and trustee, the net profits of such location
and sale were to become and be a part of the trust funds ?, If
language means anything, it means this. No stipulation by
official or agent could nullify or thwart the express limitations
of this power. An illustration or two will make this clear"
Suppose under this authority the Land 'Commissioners had
contracted with -Mr. Cornell to take the scrip and locate it
upon public lands, and out of the proceeds pay thirty cents an
acre to the fund, and give the .balance to the commissioners
for their private gain, or to the State for the public purpose
of a state house, or other matter of'general interest, would
any court or any person uphold for a moment the validity of
such a contract so far as respects the latter provisions, and
would not the universal voice declare that, notwithstanding it,
the entire proceeds of the location of scrip and sale of lands
belonged to the fund of which the State was the trustee?
That is this case. The Comptroller fixed the price at fifty
cents an acre, about fifteen cents an acre less than had heretofore been realized. Not only that, but while it is in evidence
that the amount of scrip authorized by the act of Congress
created a temporary depression in price, so that although no
land was purchasable from Congress at less than one dollar
and a quarter per acre, the price of scrip was temporarily
reduced to less than half that figure, yet, as appears from the
report of a commission, appointed in 1874 by the State of New
York to inquire into this college land grant, the cash market
value of the scrip was always at least fifty cents an acre and
the sales by other States of scrip, amounting in all to 5,699,600
acres, ranged from fifty to ninety cents, only 120,000 acres haying been sold below fifty cents. It is thus obvious that the
depression in price was only temporary The prior experience
of the State of New York, the whole experience of other
States, tends to show that fifty cents was the minimum value
of this scrip.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, JJ.

No sale was made, no contract of sale entered into at the
price fixed by the Comptroller. The -contract entered into
was by virtue of the alternative authority given.
That contract was upon this proposition from Mr. Cornell
"Appreciating, however, as I do most fuily, your motives for
desiring to give the utmost possible security and permanency to
the funds which are, in a great degree, to constitute the endowment of the Cornell University, I shall most cheerfully

accept your views so far as to consent to place the entire profits to be derived from the sale of the lands. to be located with
the college land scrip in the treasury of the State, if the State
will receive the money as a separate fund from that which
may be derived from the sale of scrip and will keep it permanently invested, and appropriate the proceeds from the income
thereof annually to the Cornell University, subject to the
direction of the trustees thereof, for the general purposes of
said institution, and- not to hold it subject to the restrictions
which the act of Congress places upon the fund derivable from
the sale of the college land scrip, or as a donation from the
government of the United States, but as a donation from Ezra
Cornell to the Cornell University Acting upon the above
basis, I propose to purchase 'said land scrip as fast as I can
advantageously locate the same, paying therefor at the rate of
thirty cents per acre in good seven per cent bonds and securities, and obligating myself to pay the profits as specified in
chapter 481, ofthe laws of 1868, into the treasury of the State,
as follows Thirty cents per acre of said profits to be added to
the College Land Scrip Fund, and the balance of said profits
to be placed in a separate fund, to be known as the Cornell
University Fund and to be preserved and invested for the benefit of said institution, and the income derived therefrom to be
paid over annually to the trustees of said university for the
general purposes of said institution."
It'is unnecessary to notice other portions of the correspondence, or to review the contract, for all of significance is expressed in this proposition. It is not an absolute sale of the
scrip for so. much money The obligation assumed by Mr.
Cornell, to the State was thirty cents an acre, and the net proft

CORNELL UNIVERSITY v. FISKE.
Dissenting Opinon. Brewer, Gray, JJ.

its of the location of the scrip on public lands, and sale of the
lands. In briefer words, thirty cents an acre and net profits
was his offer. True, he proposed that only part of the profits,
to wit, thirty cents an acre, should pass to the fund but what
authority had the commissioners for making such a limitation
in the contract? Suppose, after the making of the contract,
the commissioners had declined to traiisfer the scrip to him,
could he have compelled the specific performance, by mandamus, of that contract? Would not a clear and satisfactory
answer have been that the commissioners had no authority to
partition the profits? The limit of their authority was a contract by which the agent and locator should pay to the State
the whole net profits of the location. As Mr. Cornell could not
have compelled, by mandamus, the performance by the commissioners of the contract, so, on the other hand,.having received
.the scrip and located it, and disposed of the land, and paid the
money into the State, that unauthorized stipulation becomes
surplusage. It cannot relieve the State of New York from its liability as trustee. It is not potent to turn a portion of the proceeds of this scrip into other channels, or to other uses. The fact
that all the proceeds were going to the selected beneficiary,
doubtless led the commissioners to indifference as to the stipulations of the contract, but such indifference did not enlarge
their powers nor make valid the stipulation in excess thereof. It
seems strange that a trustee can avail itself of a disregard by its
agent of his instructions- so as to relieve itself of responsibility
for about four-fifths of the proceeds of the trust property,
yet such is the result of the conclusions reached by this court.
We are sustained in this view by a report of a majority of
the commission, appointed in 1874 by the legislature of the
State of New York, to inquire into thTs fund, for they say
"The question was raised in the Comptroller's report of 1869,
and earlier, whether this agreemenf of, 4th August, 1866, was
a sale of the- scrip- to Mr. Cornell whether it was not, 'in
substance, an agency with a transfer of title -forthe purpose of
facilitating the object in view' We are of the opinion that
the agreement was an actual sale to Mr.Cornell,. but that all
his profits, made from these lands, are part of the purchaseVOL.

CxxxV-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Gray, JJ.

money, and so subject to the restrictions of the act of Congress. Everything that forms a part of the consideration for
the sale of the trust property by the State belongs to the trust
fund created by Congress."
And again. "We are asked,
finally, to recommend ' what legislation is necessary to properly secure said funds in compliance with the act of Congress.'
None seems to be necessary in reference to the fund to be
derived from what are called the ultimate net profits from the
location and sale of the lands by Mr. Cornell, under the agreenient of August, 1866. By his contract with the State he is
to pay these profits into its treasury, and he has twenty years
in which to complete the sale of the lands. This fund is, in
our opinion, a part of the proceeds of the scrip within the
purview of the act of Congress, and cannot be legally distinguished from the other fund. Mr. Cornell seems to have
taken this view before entering into the contract, for, in a public communication, dated October 26, 1869, referring to a
letter from himself to Comptroller Hillhouse in June, 1866, he
says" 'I volunteered to create a fund three or four times as
large as that which the State could produce, for the same
object that Congress intended, and at my own risk and expenses, without charging a single dime to anybody for my
services.' He could not impose on the state treasury a new
and di~tinct trust as to any part of the consideration he was
to pay Unless these profits are part of the purchase-money,
the State gave to him for the college bearing his name a
monopoly of the scrip on long credit for a price much less
than its cash value. The second thirty cents per acre, provided
for in the agreement, being dependent solely on contingent
profits, which might not be realized; if at all, for twenty years,
and then without interest, was not, at the date of the agreement, equivalent to more than from seven to ten cents. These
.profits, being part of the purchase-money, the State is bound
to receive, them, when, from time to time, realized, and invest
them in the manner prescribed by the act of Congress, and to
appropriate the income to the educational purposes in the act
defined."
It is true, a minority of that commission dissented, but the

UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Syllabus.

reasoning of the minority makes the contract of no validity,
except as to the sale of the scrip for thirty cents an acre, and
leaves only that amount as the fund for which the State- is
responsible. The reasoning is that the State was not authorized under the act to itself locate scrip on lands in another
State, and if the profits of the location were to belong to the
State, it would follow that the State was the beneficial owner
of the lands thus located, and therefore there was a direct
evasion of the act of Congress. Concede the force of that
reasoning, and who can take advantage of it 2 Can the State
which has received the proceeds of such location say that it
had no authority to receive them, and can it, after receiving
them, repudiate its liability as trustee for that which it. has
received as the proceeds of the trust property 2
It scarcely need be said that no subsequent legislation on
the part of the State of New York, and no agreement between
it and Cornell University as to the possession of these funds,
can have the effect to relieve the State from its liability as
trustee, or place the title to those funds elsewhere than in the
State.
UNITED STATES v. NORTH CAROLINA.
ORIGINAL.
No.3.

Original.

Argued April 2,1890.-Decided May 19,1890.

A State is not liable to pay interest on its debts, unless its consent to do
so has been manifested by an act of its legislature, or by a lawful contract of its executive officers.
On bonds of the State of North Carolina, expressed to be redeemable on a
day certain at a bank in the city of New York, with interest at the rate
of six per cent a year, payable half-yearly "from the date of this bond and
until the principal be-paid, on surrendering the proper coupons hereto
annexed;" and issued by the Governor and Treasurer of the State under
the statute of December 22, 1852, c. 10, which provides that the principal
of such bonds shall be made payable on a day named therein, that coupons
of interest shall be attached thereto, and that both bonds and coupons
shall be made payable at some bank or place in the city of New York, or
at the public treasury in the capital of the State, and makes no mention
of interest after the date at which the principal is payable; the State is
not liable to pay Interest after that date.

