OF THE UNITED STATES.

.3'25

1826.
Piles
Bouldin.
[LoCAL LAw.]

PIES and Others, Plaintiffs in Error,
against
]3 OULDiN and Others, Defendants in Error.
*nder the statute of limitations of Tennessee of 1797, c. 45. s. 4.
peaceable and uninterrupted possession, claiming to hold the land
adverse to the claims of all other persons, for seven years, under a
grant, or deed of conveyance founded upon a grant, gives acomplete title to the person who has the possession.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Isaacs,for the
'olaintiffs in error, no counsel appearing for the
defendants in error.

Feb. 15sh.

Mr. Justice DUVALL delivered the opinion -of.March 101h.
the Court.
This cause is brought up by writ of error from
the judgment of the Circuit Court for the District of West Tennessee.
The lessee of Bouldin and others, who were
plaintiffs in the Court below, brought an ejectment against Conrad Piles and others, for a tract
of land containing 2,500 acres, lying in Overton
county, on Wolf river, granted by the State. of
North Carolina, by patent dated July 10, 1788,
to Thomas'and Robert King, who, by deed bearing date 25th of March, 1793, for a valuable consideration, conveyed the same to David Ross of
Virihiia. Ross, bv his last will and testament,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURl

1826.
Piles

v.

duly proved and recorded, devised the same to
his four children, namely, Eliza Myers, wife of
Jacob Myers, Amanda A. Duffield wife of John

Boudin. Duffield, Frederick A. Ross, and David Ross,

jun. the lessors of the plaintiff, as tenants in
common in fee.
The defendant, Piles, rested his defence on
the location of several grants which were offered
in evidence on the trial: (1.) A grant dated 24th
of December, 1798, founded on a warrant dated
10th of March, 1780, by the State of North Carolina, to Henry Rowan, for a tract containing
320 acres, called Walnut Grove, lying in Hawkins
county, on Spring creek. (2.) A grant bearingthe
same date, and founded on the same warrant, by
the State of North Carolina to Henry Rowan, for
another tract containing 320 acres, adjoining
Walnut Grove, and having the same beginning.
This tract was conveyed by deed dated 22d of
September, 1800, for a valuable consideration, to
Conrad Piles, and is described to include a cabin
known by the name of Livingston's -abin. (3.) A
grant bearing date on the 15th of August, 1800,
to Conrad Piles, by the State of Tennessee, for
atract lying in Overton county, on Rotton's fork of
Wolf river, containing 200 acres; and, (4.) Another tract adjoining the former,- containing the
like quantity, granted by patent of the same
date to Conrad Piles. Piles possessed both the
tracts granted to Rowan; one by purchase, the
other by a parol lease for years. All these tracts
are located on the plat exhibited on the trial, and
none"of the locations were contested The title

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the plaintiffs is admitted to be regularly deduced from the first patentee.

327
1826.
Files

The defendants read in evidence the tw,'
v.
grants before mentioned from the State of North Bouldir
Carolina to Henry Rowan, for 320 acres each;
the first is described as lying in Hawkins county,
"beginningon two hickories, an ash, and a Spanish oak, on the north side of Spring'creek;
running north 50 poles to a stake; west 335
poles to a stake; south 167 poles to a stake,
crossing Spring creek; east 335, poles to a
stake; and thence to the beginning." The second tract has the same beginning, calls "to adjoin the first, running east 335 ;poles to a stake,
north 167 poles to a stake; west 335 poles
to a stake ; then to the beginning." Also, two
grants from the State of Tennessee to himself
for 200 acres each, dated 15th of August,
1808. These grants interfere with the plaintiff's
grant of 2,500 acres, and cover all the land of
which the defendant was in possession within
the bounds of the plaintiff's grant at the commencement of the suit, viz. the 17th of October,
1817. Nearly one half of Rowan's tract, called
Walnut Grove, is included within the tract for
which the ejectment is brought ; the settlement
called Livingston's cabin lies principally in that
part of Walnut Grove thus running foul of the
tract'owned by the lessors of the plaintiff.
Helm's improvement is contained partly in Walnut Grove, and within one of the tracts of 200
acres granted to Piles, which is included almost
wholly in the tract of the lessors of the plaintiff,
and includes both Livingston' cabin and Helm's

328

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

settlement. Piles has made another settlement
included in the tract called Walnut Grove, a part
Piles
v.
of which is contained within the lines of the tract
Boudin. for which the ejectment is brought.
The defendant, Piles, proved, that the grants
before mentioned, to Rowan' and to himself,
covered all the lands of which he was possessed
within the grant of the plaintiffs; he also proved,
that the grant of Walnut Grove to Rowan included Livingston's cabin as represented on the
plat, and that he had been in the peaceable possession thereof for more than eight years before the
commencement of this suit; and that he had
also been in possession of a piece of ground
within one of the grants to himself, and which is
also within the plaintiff's grant, and which he had
held and cultivated more than eight years before
the commencement of this suit; and relied on
the statute of limitations. It was also proved,
that Rowan, in 1806, had made a parol lease of
the tract called Walnut Grove, to one Helm, for
six years, in consideration of certain'improvements; that Helm took possession, built a cabin,
and cleared a few acres of land; that, in the fall
of 1807, Piles bought his lease, and agreed to
make the further improvements stipulated, and
return the Possession to Rowan; that lie took
possession immediately, and continued in possession, claimiing for himself, and not as tenant
for Rowan, though he did not mention his claim
until after he had bought Helm's lease.
Under these circumstances, the defendant,
Piles, by his counsel, moved the Court to instruct

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the jury, that if the deed from Rowan to Piles
contained, in its first part, a sufficiently certain
description, according to the evidence, of the
land included in Rowan's first grant, that then
they should disregard any subsequent description
therein which should be repugnant to said first
description. And, also,"to charge the jury, that
if the deed from Rowan to the defendant did
not cover said land, yet, that if they believed the
defendant went into possession of the land contained in the said first grant to Rowan, under the
lease from Rowan to Helm, as stated in the evidence, the defendant could defend himself in this
action of ejectment, as tenant of Rowan, without
making his landlord a defendant; that, as between Rowan and the defendant, he, the defendant, could not change the .nature of his possession, but that the same would operate for Rowan's benefit to perfect his title under the statute
of limitations as against the plaintiff and persons
claiming under adversary grants; and that, if the
defendant's possession had perfected Rowan's
title, and made it' a bitter title than the plaintiff's,
then, the defendant having shown a better outstanding title, the plaintiff would not be entitled
to recover. Which instructions the Court refused to give, but instructed the jury, that Piles
could not avail himself of the statute, and that
his deed from Rowan, by legal construction, did
not cover the land included in Rowan's, first
grant. From this opinion of the Court an exception was taken.,and the cause is now before
this Court for revision.
ro6. XL

42

329
1826.
*
riles
V.
Bouldin.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

The co.unsel for the plaintiffs in error insists
that the Circuit .Court erred on both points.
Piles
V.
Th6 two grants to Rowan begin at the same
Bouldin. place, have the same form and dimensions, and
vin othe contain the same quantity of land. The deed from
Court to d Rowan to Piles adopts the courses and distances

terlnihle

of the second grant precisely, and proceeds to
ei-ddsaribe it as including the cabin commonly call-

force and legal
effect of deeds
give,,
(fence; in
and the

construction ed Livingston's cabin; but Livingston's cabin
given

re:t.

in this
wcse
was cor-is

included in the first grant called Walnut
Grove. The counsel for the plaintiffs in error

contends, that if the first grant is not conveyed
by the deed, it is, at least, doubtful which of the,
two tracts was intended to be conveyed; ana
that, therefore, it was- a question of location to
be settled by the jury, not a question of law to
be decided by the Court. But this Court is of a
different opinion. Admitting the universality of
the maxim, de jure respondent judices, do facto
jutratores,it will not be denied, that it is the province of the Court to decide upon the force and
legal effect of a sealed instrument. The deed
conveys,.by metes and bounds, the land contained in the .§econd grant to Rowan, corresponding
precisely, in courses and distances, from the beginning to the given line inclusive ; and will not
admit of the construction, that the first tract,
called Walnut Grove, was conveyed, merely because it includes Livingston's cabin. The description in the deed was full and complete without reference to Livingston's cabin; the mention of which appears evidently to .be a mistake
from inattention in the writer of the deed, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

3l1

conveyed no right or interest whatever ini the 1826.
first grant. And it is conclusive in the construc-'Piles '
tion of this deed, that it could not have been the
v.
3ouldin.
called
tract
the
that
party,
either
intention of
Walnut Grove was intended to b6 conveyed, that
it calls to begin "on the corner of the Walnut
Grove tract." There is no error in the judgment
of the Circuit Court in refusing to instruct the
jury according to th'e first prayer of the couiisel
for the defendant.
Defondat't
The second question arises upon the plea of possession
prothe statute of limitations.
tected by the
By the 4th section of the act of the State of!c)nlimitation:.
Tennessee, passed in the year 1797, ch. 43.
peaceable possession, for seven years, by any
person, under a grant, or deed of conveyance
founded upon a grant, gives a complete title to
the person who has the possession; and all persons who neglect, for that period, to prosecute
their claims, are declared to be for ever barred.
There is the usual saving to infants, &c. In
this case, the record affords abundant proot
which is uncontradicted, that Piles had peaceable and uninierrupted possession of all the settlements made by him, comprehended within the
lines of the plaintiff's grant, and claimed to hold
the-same as his own, adverse to the claims of all
persons whatever. The settlement called Livingston's cabin, and that made by Helm, and
transferred by Helm to Piles,-are included in his
own grant for two hundred acres, dated Augus.
15,1808, and also within the plaintiff's grant, and
principally within that part of Rowan's first

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

grant, which interferes with that of the plainHis third possession is contained within
G overneur's tiffs.
Heirs
Rowan's first grant, which interferes with the
Robertson. plaintiff's grant as has already been stated. All
these possessions, being founded on glants, are
protected by.the act of limitations, the provisions
of which are too plain to be misunderstood.
On this point, the opinion of the Circuit Court
is reversed, and a venirefaciasde novo awarded."

[ALimi.

LocAL LAW.]

DoE, ec dem. GOVERNEUR'S Heirs, against Ro.BERTSON

and Others.

An alien may lake real property, by grant, whether from the State or
a private citizen, aind may hold the same until his title is devested
by an inquest of office, or some equivalent proceeding.
The act of Assembly of Virginia of 1779, c. 15. s. S. secured from
jescheat all the interest acquired by aliens in real property, previous
to the issuing of the patent, and left the rights acquired by them
under the patent, to be determined by the general principles of the
common law.
The title of an alien thus acquired by patent in 1734, under the laws
of Virginia, and subsequently confirmed to him by a legislative
act of Kentucky in 1796, and to his heirs, and their grantees, by
an act of the same State in 1799, will overreach a grant made by
Virginia to a citizen in 1785, and defeat the claim 'of all persons
holding under such grant.
These legislative acts were valid, under the compact of 1789, between the States of Virginia and Kentucky.
a Vide agte, Somerville v. Hamilton, Vol. IV. p. 230. Jatton
v. Eaton, Vol. 1. p. 476. M'Iver v. Ragan, Vol. I. p. 25.
M 'lung v. Ross, Vol. V. p. 116. Walker Y. Turner, Vol. IX.
P. 541.

