OF THE UNITED STATES.

309

mentioned, the same being made by consent; 1826.
nor in the final decree confirming the โข report of ~Wetzell
the Marshal, except so far as it directs that the
V.
note in the ded of mortgage mentioned should Bussard.
carry interest from its date, where as interest
should be computed from the day on which the
said note was made payable, which was sixty
days after its date. The said decree, therefore,
is erroneous so far as respects the computation
of interest before the said note became payable,
and is so far REVERSED, and is, in all other respects, AFFIRM-D. And the cause is remanded to
the said Circuit qourt, that the said decree may
be reformed so far as it is herein declared to be
erroneous. And the parties are to pay their

own costs.

[STATUTE oF LIMiTATIONS.]

WETZELL againstBUSSARD.
An acknowledgment of a debt which will take - -ase out of the
statute of limitations, must be unqualified and unconditional.
If it be connected ivith circumstances, which, in any manner, affect
the claim, or if it be conditional, it may amount to a new assumpsit, for which the old debt is a sufficient consideration ; or, if it be
construed to revive the original debt, that revival is conditional,
and the perfornignce of the condition, or a readiness to perform it,
must be shown.
Thus, where an action was brought, on a promise in writing 'to deliver a quantity of powder, and the original assumpsit being satisftctorily proved, the defendant relied upon the statute of limita-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Wetzell
Bussard.

tions; and one witness deposed, that the defendant told him that

the plaintiff need not have sued him; for if he had come forward
and settled certain claims which defendant had againsthim, the defendant would have given him his powder: To another witness, defendant said, that he should be ready to ddlvei"ths powo.w.exever the plaintif settled a suit, which Dr. B. had brought against

him, &cc. Held, that those declarations did not amount to an unqualified and unconditional acknowledgment of the debt, but that
the plaintiff ought to have proved a performance, or a readiness
to perform the condition on which the new promise was made.
F b. 7th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Swann for the
plaintiff," and by Mr. Jones and Mr. Key for
the defendant."

Feb. illh.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court.
This was an action of assumpsit brought by
the plaintiff in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, and county
of Washington, on a promise in writing to deliver a quantity of powder. The defendant
pleaded the general issue, and the statute of limitations. The original assumpsit having been satisfactorily proved, theplaintiff, to support the second
issue, introduced a witness, who swore that the defendant, in a conversation with him soon after the
commencement of the suit, said that the plaintiff
need not have sued him, for if he had come forward
and settled certain claims which the defendant had
against him, the defendant would. have given him
a He cited Swan v. Sowell, 2 Barnw. and Ald. Rep. 759.
Leaper v. Tatton, 16 East's. Rep. 420. Salk. 29. Slubry v.
Champlin, 4 Johns. Rep. 461.
b They cited Clementson v. Williams, 8 Cranch, 72. Bush
v. Barnard, 8 Johns. Rep. 407.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

his powder. To another witness who spoke to 1826.
him before the commencement of the suit, at the Wetzell
instance of the plaintiff, he said that he should
v.
be ready to deliver the powder whenever the Bussard.
plaintiff settled a suit which Doctor Ewell had
brought against him in the District Court at
Alexandria. Other witnesses proved declarations of the same import.
The defendant demurred to this testimony,
and the plaintiff 'joined in demurrer. The Court
gave judgment in favour of the defendant; and
the plaintiff has brought his cause, by a writ of
error, into this Court.
It is contended, on the part of the plaintiff,
that he has proved an acknowledgment of the
debt, and that such acknowledgment, according
to a long series of decisions, revives the original
promise, or lays a foundation on which the law
raises a new promise.
The English, as well as American books, are
filled with decisions which support this general
proposition. An unqualified admission that the
debt is due at the time, has always been held to
remove the bar created by the statute. But
where the terms of the acknowledgment are in
any degree- equivocal, or where some qualification has been annexed to the admission, the
question whether the declarations of the party
amount to ahn acknowledgment of an existing
debt on which the law will raise, an assumpsit,
has been differently determined.
Leaper v. Tatton, (16 East's Rep. 420.) was a
suit against the acceptor of a bill of exchange,

312

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

'v -

Wetzell

v.

Bussard.

who pleaded the statute of limitations. At the
trial, the plaintiff offered a witness who swore
that the defendant, when applied to for payment,
said that he had been liable, but was not liable
then, because the bill was out of date. He acknowledged his acceptance, but said he would not
pay it, that it was not in his power to pay it. A
verdict was taken for the plaintiff; and, on a
motion for a new trial, Lord Ellenborough said,
" As to the sufficiency of the evidence of the
promise, it was an acknowledgment by the defendant that he had not paid the bill, and that he could
not pay it; and as the limitation of the statute
is only a presumptive payment, if his own acknowledgment that he has not paid be shown, it
does away the statute." Bayley, J. said, the acknowledgment was evidence of a debt; acknow.ledging his acceptance, and that he had not paid
it, creates a debt. The rule was discharged.
Although, in this case, the defendant did not
expressly admit the existence of the debt, the
implication is irresistible. The reason he assigns for not being liable is, that the bill is out of
date, and his reason for not paying it is his inability. The Court so understood the testimony;
and Lord Ellenborough speaks of his acknowledgment as amounting to an admission that he
had not paid the bill, and could not pay it.
In the case of Swan v. Sowell, (3 Barnw. .
Ald. 759.) Bayley, J. says, that if a party admits
the debt, and does not say that it is satisfied, or
refuses to pay it, alleging at the time an insuffi.oient excuse for not paving it, the law will. iii

OF THE UNITED STATES.

313

these cases, raise an implied promise to pay the 1826.
debt then acknowledged to be due.
Wetzell
V.
The language of Mr. Justice Bayley is not
Bussaid.
insufficient
"
by
If,
doubt.
from
entirely free
excuse," he means an excuse which in itself implies an admission that the debt remains due except for the bar created by the act of limitations,
the proposition ip und6ubtedly supported by the
general course of the cases. But if his declaration extends to an excuse, which, if true, furnishes a real objection to the payment of the
claim, in whole or in part, we think it is laid down
too broadly.
1Both the English and American cases are very
well summed up in a note in 4 Johns. Rep. 469.
note b. The current of the, English decisions
seems to be in favour of the principle, that any
expressions which amount to an admission that
the debt was originally due, and has not been
paid, will remove the bar created by the act, and
revive the original assumpsit. The decisions,
however, as to this point, have not been entirely
uniform. In Coltman v. Marsh, (3 Taunt. Rep.
380.). on a motion to set aside a nonsuit in a
.ease in which the statute of limitations had been
pleaded, it appeared .that the defendant had said
to the plaintiff, "I owe you not a farthing, for it
is more than six years since." It was contended, that these words ought to have been left to
the jury; but the Court refused the motion. So,
in the case of Leaper v. Tatton, (16 East's Rep.
420.) the defendant said, " that he had been liao . XIT.

40

314

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

"1826. ble, but was not liable then, because the bill was
out of date." Lord Elrenborough held, at Nisi
Wetzell
v.
Prius,that this might be considered as no more
Bussard. " than pleading the statute of limitations in his
own person ;) and the verdict was taken on other
words, spoken at the same time. Yet these
words imply very strongly that the debt was originally due, and remains unpaid.
Some of the American cases proceed on the
idea of a new promise, for which the ancient
debt is a sufficient consideration; and this is a
distinction of great importance, where the acknowledgment is connected with any thing required by the defendant.
In the case of Clementson v. Williams,
(8 Cranch's Rep. 72.) this Court expressed the
opinion, that the doctrine of reviving debts barred
by the act of limitations, had been carried full as
far as it ought to be carried, and that the statutes
on that subject ought to be construed like other
statutes, so as to effect the intention of the legislature. In that case, a declaration by one partner that the account was originally due, and that
he-had never paid it, and did not know that it
had ever been paid, -but supposed hi, partner
had discharged it, was declared to be insufficient
totake the case out of the statute. It is true,
that The partnership was dissolved when this
declaration was made, but the Court did not
put the case on that point. It was determined
on the insufficiency of the acknowledgment.
We think, upon the principles expressed by
the Court in the case in 8 Granch'sRep. that an

OF THE UNITED STATES.

315

acknowledgment which will revive the original 1826.
cause of action, must be unqualifiedand uncon-

ditional. It must show positively that the debt
v.
Bussard.
connected
be
it
If
part.
in
or
whole
in
is due
with circumstances which in any manner affect
the claim, or, if it be conditional, it may amount
to a new assumpsit for which the old debt is a
sufficient- consideration ; or if it be construed to
revive the original debt, that revival is conditional, and the performance of the condition, or a
readiness to perform it, must be shown.
In the case at bar, the defendant said to one
witness, that if the plaintiff had come forward
and settled certain claims the defendant had
against him, he would have given him his powder; and to another he said, " he should be
ready to deliver the powder whenever the plaintiff settled a suit which Doctor Ewell had brought
against defendant in the Court of Alexandria,
on account of a patent right and machine sold to
him by the plaintiff."
These declarations do not amount to an nqualified and unconditional acknowledgment
that the original debt was justly demandable.
They assert a counter claim on the part of the
defendant, which he was determined to oppose
to that of the plaintiff. He did not mean to give
validity to the plaintiff's claim, but on condition
that his own. should be satisfied. These declarations, therefore, cannot be construed into a revival of the original cause of action, unless that
be done on which the revival was made to depend.
It may be considered as a new promise, for which

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
e

v.

Bussard.

the old debt is a sufficient consideration, and thu
plaintiff ought to prove a performance, or a
readiness to perform, the condition on which the
promise was made.
A distinction seems to have been taken in England, between a promise to pay a sum of money,
and a contract for the perfoi'mance of a particular act. In Boydell v. Drummond, (2 Campb.
N. P. Rep. 157.) Lord Ellenborough said, "If
a man acknowledges the existence of a debt
barred by the statute, the law has been supposed
to raise a new promise to pay it, and thus the remedy is revived; but no such effect can be given
to an acknowledgment where the cause o.1 action
arises from the doing, or omitting. to do, some
act, at a particular moment, in breach of a contract."
But, without placing the cause on this distinction, the Court is of opinion, that the original
cause of action is not revived, and that there is
no error in the judgment.
Judgment affirmed, with costs."
a The Courts, both in this country and in England, have frequently expressed their regret, that, in construing the statute of
limitations, the original text had not been more strictly adhered to,
so as to effectuate the intention of the legislature, proceeding upon
the reasonable presumption furnished by 'the lapse of time, and
upon the salutary policy of discouraging vexatious litigation. (See
Bryan v. Horsman, 4 East's Rep. 599. 'Ward v. Hunter,
6 Taunt. Rep. 210. Brandran v. Wharton, 1 Barnw. " Aid.
463. Bartley v. Faulkner, 3 Barnw. 4SAid. 288.)' Mr. Evans,
in the notes to his Translation of Pothier on ObligatiQns, speaking of Bryan v. Horsman, has the following observationsixhilh

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Z317

are marked by the independent spirit of that able writer. " The 1826.
decision was certainly in conformity with the series of precedents
upon the subject; but, as to the general precedent of adhering to Wetzell
V.
the mere authority of former cases, in opposition to the positive Bussard.
terms of an act of Parliament, or an established maxim of law,
of placing a secondary above a primary authority, much doubt
may fairly, and without disrespect, be entertained. Where the
return to the ancient principle would be attended with material
detriment, as by disturbing titles to real estates, held under the
sanction of rules, which, however erroneous in themselves, have
been established by a series of precedents, the reason for an adherence to the precedents evidently preponderates but where there
will be no immediate inconvenience beyond the immediate case,
where the general consequences will be wholly prospective, I cannot but adhere to theopinion, (which I have, perhaps, expressed
with obtrusive repetition,) that the Courts of justice have as much
authority now to restore the law, as they have had before to subvert it ; and that a correct principle of law is an authority entitled
to a higher respect that an erroneous set of precedents. Considering the law, however, upon this particular subject, as now beyond the reach of argument, and aware how much my own opinion, upon the effect of precedent, is different from that which
usually prevails in practice, I think it not irrelevant to suggest to
persons whose claims are barred by the statute, and who wish to
obtain an acknowledgment of the subsistence of the debt, the utility of filing a bill of discovery, obliging the defendant to state
whether the debt was contracted, and whether it has been paid. If
the subsistence of the debt is admitted, and without perjury, it cannot be denied, it will not, if there is any consistency 6f decision,
be of any avail to add a claim to the rotection of the statute."
(2 Evans' transl. Pothlier Oblig. Appendix, No. XV. p. 125.
note b.) Mr. Serjeant Williams also remarksthat, 11After all, it
might, perhaps, have been as well, if the letter of the statute had
been strictly adhered to; it is an extremely beneficial law, on
which, as it has been observed, the security of all men depends,
and is therefore, to be favoured. (Green v. Revitt, 2 Salk. Rep.
421, 422.) And, although it will now and then prevent a man
from recovering an honest debt, yet it is his own fault that he postponed his action so long; beside whic b, the permitting of evidence
-f promises and acknowledgments. within the six years, seems to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

be a dangerous inlet to perju;jy."

(2 Williams' Saund..64 L.

Snote.)

Wetzell
V.
Bussard.

In the countries governed by the Roman civil law, a much more
literal rule of interpretation has been always applied to their ordinances of prescription or limitation. Thus, in France, though a
positive acknowledgment of the debt is sufficient to interrupt the
running of the prescription, yet a verbal acknowledgment, when
the debt exceeds 100 livres, can be of no use to the creditor, as
the French law requires all contracts exceeding that amount (now
150 francs, Code Civ. Nap. No. 1341.) to be in writing; and this
statute of frauds has also been very strictly adhered to by the
Courts of justice in that country. ,[Pothier, Des Oblig. No. 660.
688. Erskine's Inst. Law of Scotland, b. 3. tit. 7. ยง 10.) But
what is called the decisory oath may be tendered to the debtor in a
manner somewhat similar to a bill of discovery, as suggested by
Mr. Evans. (Pothieri Des Oblig. No. 660. 684. Code Cir.
Nap. art. 2275.) That admirable system of jurisprudence which
forms the basis of the municipal law of all Europe, (except England,) is strongly imbued with the principles on which the rules
for the prescription or limitation of actions are founded. Many of
the eminent Judges who have successively adorned the equity tribunals of England, have expressed their strong sense of the provident wisdom of these principles, derived from a deep knowledge
of human nature, and adopted from a due regard to the peace and
order of society. (See Cas. temp. King, 156. 4 Bro. Ch. Cas.
269. 1 Ball 4, Beatt. 156. 2 Jac.4' Walk. 140. And for the doctrines of this Court as tothe application of theanalogy of the statute
oflimitations of possessoryactions, &c. in equity, see Elmendorf v.
Taylor,.ante, Vol. X. p. 152. 168., and note a. .b.p. 177. Prevost v. Gratz, ante, Vol. VI. p. 504. Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs,
ante, Vol. X. p. 146. Hughes v. Edwards, Vol. IX. p. 489.
497. And, as to the presumption of grants from the lapse of
time, see Ricard v. Williams, ante, Vol. VII. p. 59. 109.)
The Judges in this country have recently shown a strong disposition to break through the chain of authorities by which a mere
acknowledgment of the existence of a debt has been permitted to
take the case out of the statute of limitations of personal actions.
See the very able judgment of Mr. Justice Spencer in Sands v.
Gelston, (15 Johns. Rep. 511.) in which a powerful effort is made
to rescuethe statute from a series or misrepresentations which haz

OF THE UNITED STATES.

319

nearly destroyed its efficacy. See, also, Roosevelt v. Mark, (6 Johns. 1826.
Ch. Rep. 266. 290.)where the authority of Sands v. Gelston
is recognised by Mr. Chancellor Kent, and the principle is assert- Wetzell
V.
ed, that an acknowledgment, to take a case out of the statute of Bussard.
limitations, must be of a present, subsisting debt ; and if the 'acknowledgment be qualified so as to repel the presumption of a
promise to pay, it is not evidence of a promise to pay.
In the case referred to in the text, of Clementson v. Williams,
'S Cranch's Rep. 72.) this Court stated, that it had "been frequently decided, that an acknowledgment of a debt barred by the
statute of limitations, takes the case out of the statute, and revives
the original cause of actioa. So far as decisions have gone on
this point, principles may be considered as settled, and the Courts
will not lightly unsettle them. But they have gone full as far as
they ought to be carried, and this Court is not inclined to extend
them. The statute of limitations is entitled to the same respect
with other statutes, and ought not to be explained away."' The
Court proceed to observe, that in the case then in judgment, there
was "(no promise, conditional or unconditional; but a simple acknowledgment. This acknowledgment goes to the originaljustice
of the account; but this is not enough. The statute of limitatigns
was not enacted to protect persons from claims fictitious in their
origin, but from ancient claims, whether well or ill founded, which
may have been discharged, but the evidence of discharge may be
lost. It is not, then, sufficient to takv the case out of the act, that
the claim should be proved, or be acknowledged to have been originidly just; the acknowledgment must go to the fact that it is still
due. In the case at bar, the acknowledgment of J. Clarke is, that
he had not discharged the account presented to him, but he does
not say that it was not discharged. B is partner may have paid it
without the knowledge of Clarke; and, consequently, the declaration of Clarke that he had not himself paid it, and that he did
not know whether his partner had paid it or not, is no proof that
the debt remains due, anl, therefore, is not such an acknowledgment as will take the case out of the statute of limitations."

