OF THE UNITED STATES.

237

1826.
Perkins
V.

Hart.
[Pr,&ADIN1G.
PERKINS

PRACTICE.]

against HART, Executor of HART.

Where there is a special agreement open and subsisting at -the time.
the cause of action arises, a general indebitajusassumpsit cannot
be maintained.
But, if the agreement has been wholly-performed, or if its further exezution has been prevented by the act of the-defendant, or by the
consent of both parties ; or, if the contract has been fully performed in respect to any one distinct subject included in it; the plaintiff may recover upon a general indebitaus assumnzTit.
A Fettled account is only prima fade evidence of its correctness, at
law or in equity; it may be impeached by proof of fraud, or omission, or mistake; and if it be confined to particular items of account,
concludes nothing as to other items not stated in it.
Where a case is certified to this Court upon a division of opinions of
the Judges below, and the points reserved, upon which they were
divided, are too imperfectly stated to enable this Court to pronounce any opinion upon them, this Court will neither award 'avenire de novo, nor certify any opinion to the Court below upon the

points reserved, but will merely certify that they are too imperfectly
%tated.

THIS was an action of general indebitatus
assunipsit,brought in the Circuit Court of Ohio,
for work and labour, care and diligence, by the
plaintiff done and bestowed, as an agent and attorney, in exploring, showing, surveying, and
selling, the lands of the defendant's testator;
also, in the searching of records, investigating
titles, and in the payment of the taxes of the
testator. The declaration contains the other
general money counts.

The plaintiff also filed

what is styled an additional "bill of particulars,"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Perkins

V.

Hart.

for exploring, giving information of the situation
and value, superintendinglaw suit with Granger,
attending to division with Mather's heirs, and
for general superintendence of Hart's landed interest in Ohio, (except for paying taxes,) 3,500
dollars.
Byconsentof the parties the juryfound a verdict
for the plaintiff of 4,308 dollars 70 cents damages,
if, upon the points reserved, the Court should be
of opinion that the law is for the plaintiff; but
if, upon the points reserved, the Court should be
of opinion that the law is for the defendant,
then they find for the defendant.
The opinions of the Judges below be'ng opposed, the cause was removed to this Court upon
a certificate of the disagreement, upon the three
following points:
1. That the whole evidence, and Hart's (the
testators) letter of January 14, 1812; Perkins'
(the plaintiff's) letter in' reply, of February 10,
1812, and Hart's letter of March 9, 1812, in reply to Perkins, constitute a special agreement,
investing Perkins with the agency of Hart's land
in the State of Ohio, open and subsisting at the
time the cause of action is claimed to have arisen,
which precludes Perkins from recovering in this
action.
2. That the whole evidence, and the letters
above cited, constitute a special agreement, defining the nature and extent of Perkins' agency,
and settling the subjects upon which he was to
receive compensation, and the amount of that
compensation; the legal operation of which

OF THE UNITED STATES.

239

agreement is to preclude Perkins from claiming 1826.
compensation for any thing done in the execution Pekn
V.
of his agency, except according to the terms of
that agreement.

3. That the plaintiff cannot recover for the
two items in the bill of particulars claimed and
charged to have arisen as matters of account between the parties in 1814 and 1815; because,
the plaintiff, on the 1st of February, 1815, and
19th March, 1819, exhibited and stated his general account against William Hart, upon each of
which a balance was due from, and paid by, the
said William, as a settlement upon an account
stated, which precludes the plaintiff from recovering in this action for said two items, claimed
to have been due before the said accounts were
rendered.
In the letter of Hart (the defendant's testator) of the 14th of January, 1812, he requested
the plaintiff to give him his most favourable
terms of agency, to appoint sub-agents to transact the business where he (the plaintiff) might
deem necessary, with such compensation as he
might agree upon with them. The letter then
proceeded as follows: " State the amount of
commissions you shall expect me to pay on account -ofsales that shall be collected and remitted, but no commissions to be paid by me till the
collections are made. Provided sales are made
by me in exchange for lands, and if I should
draw on you for the amount to be paid in lands
at a price agreed on, or otherwise, if necessary,
to be left with you to be ascertained; in such

CASES TNK THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
,,1-*
Perkins

v.
Hrt.

case, what should you expect to charge on sales
of that nature ? Please be particular in stating
your terms of agency, and make them as favourable as possible." In the plaintiff's letter, in reply, of February 10th, 1812, he says: "My commission on sales made by me, the money collected, and remitted, is eight per cent. When
contracts are made, (as is sometimes the case,)
purchasers make a payment, and then give up
the land so as to be left, without encumbrance,
to be sold again, 50 per cent. on such receipt.
On these two items the commission cash, as it
has been cash received. In case the agency
should be closed, and a settlement made, and
contracts remain on hand unsettled, then, in all
those contracts that should be carried into effect,
five per cent. commission, received in contracts,
with a conveyance of the lands covered by the
contract or contracts, received. On sales made
in exchange for lands, &c. three per cent. commissions, to be received either in contracts here,
on lands here at retail price. Always, as far as
is practicable, receive commissions in that which
shall be similar to that in which it is charged."
The letter from the defendant's testator dated
the 9th of March, 1812, in reply to the plaintiff,
acknowledges the receipt of the above letter, and
then adds, "Your observations in regard tb the
mode of selling new lands, are, doubtless, sanctioned by experience, and I am happy to commit
the agency of my property to your experience
and good judgment, from whence I expect to derive peculiar advantage."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The cause was argued in this Court by Mr.
Wright and Alr. Whittlesey, for the plaintiff, and
by Mr. Webster and 'Mr. Hammond, for the defendant.

1826.
]Perkins

V.
Hart
Feb. 16th.

On the part of the plaintiff it was argued,
(1.) That where a .special parol contract, or a
written contract not under seal, has been entered into, the party may still recover on the common counts in a general indebitatus assumpsita
In the case of the Bank of Columbia v. Patterson,' it was held to be incontrovertibly settled,

that indebitatus assumpsit will lie to recover the
stipulated price due on a special contract, not under seal, where the contract has been completely
executed; and that, in such case, it is not necessary to declare upon a special agreement. So,
where a: beneficial service has been rendered to
the defendant, under the special agreement, but
not in pursuance of its terms, the plaintiff may
recover upon a quantum reruit.c Or where the
defendant is the occasion of its non-performance ; or where the contract has been rescinded
by the parties, or put an end to by the defendant.d Or where the defendant, by his own act,
defeats the performance.6 And where the plain1 Chitty's Pl. 333. and authorities there cited.
7 Cranchs Rep. 303.
Bull. N. P. 139. 7 Johns. Rep. 132.
10 Johns. Rep. 37. 7 Termn Rep. 181. 1 N. R. 357.
12 Johns. Rep. 274. 5 Johns. Rep. 87. 7 Johns. Rep. 132.
2 31fass. Rep. 415. Powell on Contr. 417.
S1
VOL. X.
a
b
c
d
e

242

CASES IN THE SUPIRME COUR-T

1826.
Perkins

V.
Hart.

tiff seeks to recover on a special contract, and
the evidence offered will support a conimon
count, supposing no special agreement, he may
recover under the latter.a
2. The correspondence between the parties,
and the other evidence in the cause, did not constitute an outstanding special agreement, such
as to preclude the plaintiff from recovering in
this form of action.'

3. The account stated did not specifically include the items stated in the bill of particulars.
But a settled account, or a receipt, is onlyprima
facie evidence, which the plaintiff may rebut by
showing the true state of the accounts.c
On the part of the defendant, the counsel entered into a critical examination of the autbori
ties cited on the other side to support the position, that a general indebitatus assumpsit would
lie in the present case; and although it was admitted, that the precedents were to that effect,
yet it was denied that they rested on any solid
or consistent ground of principle; it was asserted that they had been settled without proper examination, and a due consideration of the general analogies of the law, and were calculated to
a iA It. .351.

Bull. N. P. 139. Dougl. Rep. 651. 5 Mass.

Rep. 39. 391. 1 Mass.Rep. 355. 7 Johns. Rep. 134. 10 Johns.

Rep. 37.
b 3 Johns. Rep. 199.
c 1 Johns. Ca.s. 145.
87.

366.

14 Johns. Rep. 212.

5 East's Rep. 230.

5 Johns. Rep. 72.
12 Johns. Re;. 531.

4 Johns. Rep. 377.

5 Iles. Rep.
2 Term Rep.

OF TIlE ,.;NITED STATEb.

introduce uncertainty and confusion into legal

Q243

1826.

proceedings, and. to encourage negligence in \. Perkins
making contracts, and infidelity in performing
v.
Hart.
them. But, it was further insisted, that those
authorities, even supposing them to have irrevocably settled the practice, could not be applied

to the present case. Here, the contract specially
defined the terms upon which it was to be performed by both parties, and, also, the terms upon.
which it was to be closed. In all the cases cited,
the right of action was held to accru.e upon the
termination of the contract. While it subsisted,
it could not be pretended, that a general indebitatus assutmpsit could be maintained. It had, indeed, been said, that the contract was terminated
by the death of the testator, and the act of his
executor. But no case had gone so far as to de,-ide, that an :gent, whose authority terminates
upon the death of his principal, may proceed
against his personal representatives upon the
oontract of agency, as if it had been terminated
by some wrongful act of the principal. The authority of the agent terminates with the death
of the principal,but for services performed under
the agency, the contract remains open.
2. The agreement precluded the plaintiff from
claiming compensation for any thing done in execution of his agency, except according to the
terms of that agreement. The case cited to
show the contrary does not apply.a Here, what-Nver services the plaintiff performed before 1812,
ti

Jalnbsnn v. Le Grange, :3Johna. Rep. I9P.

244

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

"2 '

Perkins

v.

Hart.

in expectation of being compensated by the
agency, must be considered as satisfied by the
contract of agency then made. That contract
must be regarded as embracing all services performed, or to be performed, by the plaintiff, for
the defendant's testator, in respect to the sale of
lands. If the disputed items of account arose
under the contract, they could only be recovered
in a special assumpsit grounded upon the contract. If they were claimed, independent of the
contract, as not being within its terms, it was insisted, that the plaintiff could set up no claim to
compensation for services in. the agency not embraced by the contract, which settled and defined
the rights of the parties.
3. The question presented by the last point
reserved, was, whether the plaintiff, having presented two annual accounts of his agency, embracing items of debit and credit arising uRder
his general agency, and arising also under
his special agency in the sale of lands, having
stated the balance due 'to him upon these accounts, and received payment, could recover in
a general inidebitatus assumpsit for other items
of account due at the time the former were exhibited, without offering any evidence of error or
omission. The plea of account stated, and payment of the balance found due, is a bar to the
action of assumpsit.a If it be a bar, it must be
an absolute bar at law, and not a mere presumption, which may be rebutted by contrary evidence.
The account can only be opened, surcharged,
a Com. Dr-. Pleader,(2 G. 11.)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

or falsified, in equity. All the authorities referred to in the principal case cited from-the NewYork reports,a are .from the decisions in equity;
but it does not follow,, that . Court of law, not
having the same means of doing justiceb between
the parties; will pursue the same practice. At
all events, in order to permit an account to be
opened, there must be evidence of mistake or
fraud." There was neither in this case.

245
1826.
Perkins

v.

Hart.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion March ed.

of the Court, and, after stating the case, proceeded as follows:
The first point reserved in the Court below,
and on which the Judges of that Court were divided in opinion, consists of two propositions:
Propositions
1. That, upon the whole evidence, the three let- involved
in the
ters partitularly referred to constitute a special first point.
agreement investing the plaintiff with the agency
of Hart's lands in Qhio; 2. That this special agreement was open and subsisting at the
time the cause of action is claimed to have arisen,
which precludes the plaintiff from recovering in
this action.
It is not easy to understand what the defend- Distinction
toteparts as
of
ant's counsel mean by the whole"evidence. Upon the bvidence
examining the voluminous record - --it up to this 'ed by the
or to be
Court, we find, that an active corresponde ice Court,
submitted to
was carried on between Perkins and Hart from the jury.
the year 1803 to 1816, upon the subject of Hart's
a Manhattan Company v. Lydig, 4 Johns. Rep. 377.
b 2 .Atk. Rep. 119. 4 Johnm.Rep. 387.

246

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. Jands in Ohio,-the payment of the accruing taxes
on them, examining, surveying, and preparing
Perkins
them for sale, and of other services to be perv.
Hart.
formed by Perkin.s, in some. way or other connected with those lands. If this be the evidence
alluded to, there was no objection to submitting
it to the Court, to say whether the whole of this
written evidence, or any part of it, created a special contract, investing Perkins with the agency
of Hart's land.
But we find in this record evidence of a different character, such as accounts, receipts, and
depositions, in relation to Perkins' agency especting Hart's lands in Ohio. If this was intended to constitute a part of the whole evidence
upon which the question of law was to arise, we
should be of opinion, that it was fit only for the
decision of the jury, and ought not to have been
submitted to the Court.
The disinclination which this Court has always
felfective.'tate
of the record.
evinced, to send parties bask to the Court below,
if, by any reasonable construction, obscure parts
of the record can be explained, disposes us in the
present instance to consider the verdict as referring to the written evidence, not only because it
would have been improper to call upon the Court
to decide upon the effect of parol evidence, but
because that which is spread upon this record
has no apparent relevancy to the question of law
which is submitted.
In the examination of the question whether
there was a special agreement or not, we shall
confine ourselves entirely to the three specified

OF THE UNITED STATES..

247

letters, because, we are of opinion, after an atten- 1826.
tire perusal of all the other§, that they furnish
any agree- P .
At the slightest ground for saying-that
Hart.
r ent was entered into which invested Perkins
with the agency of Hart's- lands. The letterswhthuest,
a special
uwldressed by Hart to Perkins, treat him as an wa,
agreement,
ag'ent empowered to perform a variety of acts inconfined to the
three
letters
relation to the lands of the former. But it -was pecified in the
purposes,
a limited agency, created for particular

aind as occasions required, but founded upon no
sp.ecial agreement which bound Perkins to perform any specified duties, or Hart to remunerate
the services he might perform, otherwise than
the law bound him upon the principle of a quantvzm mneruit. The particular agency which the
ibrmer was requested, from time to time, to assurne, was to pay taxes, attend to law suits, exwIline the lands po as to enable Hart to judge of
their value, and to have. certain lots and townships surveyed, as preparatory to a sale of them
4t a future period. The taxes were-annually
paid, and other advances made by Perkins, upon
whiehi he charged both a commission and interest, and these, it would seem, were punctually
reiwibursed when drawn for, although the charge
of interest was sometimes complained of.
The preparatory steps for bringing these lands,
or certain portions of them, into the market,
having been taken, the correspondence comnenced, which is particularly referred to in the
first and second reserved points.
in Hart's letter of the 14th of January,,1812,
he requests Perkins to give him his most favour-

248

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Perkins

v.
Hart.

able terms of agency, to appoint sub-agpiiz to
do- business where he, Perkins, might judge necessary, with such compensation as he r,--h!
agree upon with them. The letter thenprocedas follows: " State the amount of commis-ioii
you shall expect me to pay on amount of akes
that shall be collected and remitted, bu;. no commissions to be paid by me till the collections r-rc
made. Provided sales are made by me ia e%change for lands, and if I should draw ojo yov
for the amount to be paid in lands at a pri,,e
agreed on, or otherwise, if neoessary, to be left
with you to be ascertained, in such case ilhat
should you' expect to charge on sales of that nature? Please be particular in stating your tei-,s
of agency, and make them as favourable as vossible."
In answer to this letter, Perkins writes, on the

10th of February, 1812, as follows: "Ml commission on sales made by me, the money collected and remitted, is eight per cent. Wheit contracts are made, (as is sometimes the case)) purchasers make a payment, and then give up:;hc,
land so as to be left without encumbrance
be
sold again, 50 per cent. on such receipt. On
these two items the commission cash, as i has
been cash received: In case the agency Jdd
be closed, and a settlement made, and conti. cts
remain on hand unsettled, then, in all tho-e cXaitracts that should be carried into effect, f ve pecr
cent. commission, received in contracts, wvitf, a
conveyance of the lands covered by the contract
or contracts received. On salas made in .,.x-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

249

change for lands, &c. three per cent. commis-

1826.

sion, to be received either in contracts here, or

Perkins

V,.
lands here, at retail price. Always, as far as
Hart.
which
that
in
practicable, receive commissions
shall be similar to that in which it is charged."
The letter from Hart to Perkins, dated the 9th
of March in the same year, acknowledges the
receipt of the above letter, and then adds, "Your
observations in regard to the mode of selling
new lands, are, doubtless,- sanctioned by experience, and I am happy to commit the agency of
my property to your, experience and god judgment, from whence I expect to derive peculiar advantage."
These letters, we think, constitute a special contit ,
agreeof commissions to special
agreement upon the subject
mernt upon
the
•
be paid by Hart to.Perkins, by way of compensa- subject
of
i commissions.
tion for his agency in the sale of lands. It 1s only.
confined to that subject only. The first of these
letters invites Perkins to state his most favourable terms of agency in the sale of Hart's lands.
The answer contains those terms by stating the
commissions which he should expect to receive
upon sales made, and the amount collected and
remitted; upon sales made, and then abandoned
by the purchaser after a partial payment of' the
purchase money; upon sales made, but the
amount not collected before the agency should
be closed; and, finally, upon sales made by way
of exchange for other property. The acceptance of these terms is sufficiently expressed in
Hart's reply to this letter, by which he commits
VOL. X.

32

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

250
1826.

to Perkins the agency of his property, the na-

"

ture of which agency is too clearly explained by

Perkins

v.

Hart.

reference to the two preceding letters, to leave
the slightest doubt as to the meaning and extent

of the contract which was thus entered into.
question
The second proposition is, "That this special
ther
this whespecialagreement
agreement
was open and subsisting at the time
was open and .
subsisting at tne cause of action is supposed 'to have arisen."
elleged
cause N OW, this proposition involves a mixed question
of

actroseof

law and fact.

If the contract was open, and

the action was founded on that contract, then
the legal consequence insisted upon, "that Perkins cannot recover in this action," undeniably

follows. But whether, in point of fact, it was
open when the cause of action is claimed to have
arisen, that is, in the lifetime of W. Hart, must
depend upon the evidence in the cause,.of which
the jury were alone competent to judge. If the
agreement was wholly performed by the plaintiff
during the lifetime of Hart; if its farther execution was put an end to, before its completion, by
the act of Hart, or by the agreement of both
parties, then the plaintiff. was not precluded from
recovering in this action. Nay, further, if the
contract was fully performed in relation to any
one subject covered by it; as, for example, by
the sale, collection, and remittance of the purchase money for any one township or parcel of
land, the plaintiff might well maintain an action
of indehitatus assumpsit for his stipulated com-

pensation, in cash, on that transaction, and was
not bound to wait until all the lands to which hip
agency extended were disposed of. Where the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

agreement embraces a number of distinct subjects which admit
of being separately executed
•
and closed, it must be taken distributively, each
subject being considered as forming the matter
of a separate agreement after it is so closed. If,
for instance, the agreement between a merchant
and his factor be, that the latter shall sell and
remit the proceeds of all cargoes which the former shall consign to him upon a stipulated commission, it can hardly be contended, that 'the factor cannot recover his commissions in this form
of action, upon the proceeds of a single cargo
which have been remitted, while there remain
other cargoes yet undisposed of.
But, whether this agreement was wholly closed,
or whether any one or more of its parts were
closed, in either of the ways abovementioned, or
in any other way, was a fact resting altogether
upon the evidence, whether written or parol,
which was, or might be, laid before the jury. It
belonged exclusively to that body to say whether
the fact existed or not; and, upon the fact so
found, the question of law would fairly arise. In
this respect, therefore, we are of opinion, that tho
verdict is clearly defective, and -ought to have
been set aside by the Court below.
It may not be amiss to add, that if the question
reserved were, whether the agreement was openi
and subsisting at the time this actionwas brought,
we should be of opinion, that the agency of Perkins having terminated by the death of Mr. Hart,
the further execution of the agreement was put
an end to by that event, and that, consequently,

1826.
Perkins

V.
Hart.

"252

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

it was not open when the action was brought.

Pekn
Perkins

But the proposition is so stated as to refer to a

•.

Hart.

period antecedent to the death of Hart.
The second point reserved is thus expressed.

"That, upon the whole evidence, Hart's letter
of January 14th, 1812," and so referring to the
other two letters as in the first point, "constitute
a special agreement, defining the nature and extent of Perkins' agency, and settling the subjects
upon which he was to receive compensation, and
tile amount of that compensation, the legal operation of which agreement is to preclude Perkins
from claiming compensation for any thing done
in the execution of his agency, except according
to the terms of that agreement."
The legal opeIt has been already-stated, that the three letration of the
specialas agreement,
far as ters particularly referred to in this point, did con-

it extended, Stitute a special agreement upon the subject of
precluded the
i3laintiff from commissions

to be paid to Perkins by way of
compensation for his agency in th sale of Hart's
nothonistent lands. And, it may be added, that this agreewith itsterms.ment settles the subjects
upon which Perkins
was to receive compensation, and the amount of
that compensation. If so, there can be no question but that the legal operation of this agreement,' as to every claim founded upon it, is to
preclude Perkins-from recovering any compensation which is not consistent with the terms of
that agreement. For, although in the cases before stated, in'which the special agreement has
been executed, or otherwise closed, a general indebitatus asrompsit may be maintained, it is, nevertheless, true, that the special agree miei may

climnsatiy

OF THE UNITED STATES.

253

be given in evidence by the defendant for the 1826.
purpose of lessening the quantam of damages Perkins
V.
to which the plaintiff is entitled.
But, after all this is admitted, the inference of Hart.
Bu
t the legal
law insisted upon by the defendant, that Per- inference
inon by
sisted
from
agreement
kins io precluded by the special
the defendant
claiming compensation for any thing done in the does not folexecution of his agency, except according to thelow.
terms of that agreement, does not follow. The
agreerent is clearly prospective, and is confined
to the single subject of commissions on the sale.
of lands., This is apparent from Hart's letter of
the 14th of January,,1812, which he prefaces by
stating, that he had concluded to offer certain
portiono of his lands for sale at that time, and
his ot'ier lands, when they should be partitioned.
He deires Perkins, as his agent; to mhake the
neces;ary previous arrangements, and to proceed
in the ,-ae of the aortions before mentioned, and
of 1N.o. -2o in the 13th v'ange, as soon as the partition -tould be coioeted, and then he proceeds
to Mcl, ire his t i.
9f gqcncy as before menfisd,eo But, when
'- .i: into the whole evidc,. ti) which we
-,-red by the point re;, ' , is found fi:at ;|1z agency of Perkins
as ear;- *. ho year 1803, and extended to a variety of duties unconnected with
that of selling land ; such as exploring the lands
of his principal, having them surveyed, their
quality and value ascertained, investigating titles,
attending, to law suits, paying taxes, and making
other advances.
Now, it is impossible to contend, with any

254

CASES IN THE SUPRLME COURT

1826.
%cluded

Perkins

V.

Hart.

Obscurity
the record.

probability of success, that Perkins wai preby the special agreement from recoi ering.

under the general counts, a compensatvdn for
those services, or, indeed, for any other services
rendered by him in his character of agent, which
are not strictly within the scope of the special
agreement: But, the point raised here is, that
he is precluded from claiming compensation for
.any thing done in the execution of his-ageuzcy.
except according to the terms of that agreement,
although the services so rendered are not embraced by it.
of
What was the nature of the particular claim
submitted to the jury, upon which the parties
consented that a verdict should be given for the
plaintiff, the record does not enable this Court
distinctly to decide. So far as any information is
to be derived from the declaration, and the additional bill of particulars, it would rather seem as if
it was for general services rendered by the plaintiff
without the scope of the special agreement, that
being confined, as before observed, to commissioi's on land sales.
If the paper found in this record, headed thus,
"Perkins' account, on which the action io
brought," whidh contains three items for conmissions on. as many sales of land, and thr-le
others for interest on those commissions, is to
be considered as the original bill of particulars
filed in the cause, it would seem to follow, that
the action was brought to recover, as well those
commissions as a compensation for general service. not embraced by the Special. agreement.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Upon this state of the case, the conclusion of law

255
1826.

insisted upon in this point would, nevertheless, be Perkins
incorrect, for the reasons already stated.
v.
It was contended by the counsel for the de- Hart.
fendant, that this action would not lie in a case,
where, by the agreement,. the plaintiff was to be
compensated in land. This is not controverted.
But, it will be sufficient to observe, that it is not
stated in the points reserved, or in the account
just referred to, (if it be admitted to be the original bill of particulars,) that the commissions
there charged arose upon an exchange of lands,
or were to be discharged by land. The case is
too imperfectly stated to enable this Court to
say that it gives rise to the question to which the
argument is directed.
The third and last point reserved is thus ex- Third point.
pressed: " That the plaintiff cannot recover for
the two items in the bill of particulars claimed
and charged to have arisen as matters of account
between the parties in 1814 and 1815, because
the plaintiff, on the 1st of February, 1815, and
on the 19th of March, 1816, exhibited and stated
his general account against William Hart, upon
each of which a balance was due from, and paid
by, the said William, as a settlement upon an
account stated, which precludes the plaintiff from
recovering in this action, for said two items
claimed to have been due before the said accounts were rendered."
The difficulty of this point consists in the imimperfect
ma,,,r
in
perfect manner in which it is stated. The-Courthich
this
- p
may conjecture, that the bill of particulars al o'itIsstated.

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Perkins

V.
Hart.

luded to is the paper just referred to ; but whether it be so or not is by no means certain. If it
be the bill intended, the difficulty still remains.
as the general account is not stated, or referred

to, so as to enable the Court to decide whether
it does, or does not, include the two items which
it is supposed cannot be recovered in this aclion.
If we look through this record in order to obtain information respecting this matter, we meet
with two accounts containing charges for advances made by Perkins, in the years 1814
and 1815, for taxes due by Hart, and in discharge
of other expenses connected with his agency,
The stated ac- both which accounts were discharged.
But it
count no ba.r.
surely cannot be contended, that the settlement

and discharge "of an account for money lent and
advanced for the use of the testator, is a bar to a
claim for commissions, or of any other demand
not included in the settled account. If, to a bill
for an account, the defendant plead, or, in his
answer rely, upon a settled account, the plaintiff
may surcharge, by alleging and proving omissions in the account, or may falsify, by showing
errors in some of the items stated in it.
The rule is the same in principle at law; a
settled account is only prima fade evidence of
ies correctness. It may be impeached by proof
of unfairness, or mistake, in law, or in fact; and
if it be confined to particular items of account,
it concludes nothing in relation to other item.
not stated in it.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The legal conclusion, therefore, insisted upon
by the defendant, that the-plaintiff is precluded
from recovering in this action for the two items
claimed to have been due before the two accounts spoken of were rendered, is not correctly
drawn, unless it appeared, from the point reserved, that those two items were included in
what is styled the account stated.
It may further be remarked, that even if it appeared that the plaintiff was precluded by the
settlement and discharge from recovering the
amount of the two items referred to, it would
not follow that the law is for the defendant upon
the whole verdict, although it might be sufficient
to induce the Court below to grant a new trial,
if it had been applied for, upon the ground that
the verdict was for too much.
Were this cause before the Court upon a writ
of error, the imperfections in the points reserved
which have been noticed, would render it proper
to reverse the judgment, and to direct a venire
de 3ovo to be awarded. Being an adjourned
case" t would be improper for this Court to give
any such direction to the Court below.
This cause came on to be arof division in opinion of
certificate
gued on the
the Judges of the Circuit Court for the District
of Ohio. On consideration whereof, this Court
is of opinion, that the points reserved, upon
which the opinions of the Judges of that Court
were opposed, are too imperfectly stated to enable this Court to pronounce any opinion upon them.
Oir'a1FICATE.

VOL. Mi.

33

257
1826.
j'
Perkins
V.
Hart.

