OF THE UNITED STATES.

the declaration; but the jury have a right to add 1826.
interest, by way of damages, for the delay.
Miller's
at
Heirs
suggested
Some other objections have been
the bar, such as, that the jury had no right, M'htir .
without evidence, to presume that there was no
other note of Wood & Ebert, in order to help
the misdescription ; and.that the case proved was
of several liabilities of - the defendants, which
would not support a declaration on a joint contract. These questions have been fully argued
by counsel, but arenot presented by the record
in such a shape as to enable the Court to take
cognizance of them.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court
that the judgment ought to be affirmed, with
'costs.

"LocaL LAW. 1

MILLER-s

Heirs against M'INTIRE & Others.

Quare. Whether the compact of 1789, between Virginia and'
Kentucky, restrained the legislature of Kentucky from' prolonging
the time for surveying one entry to the prejudice of another?

By the construction of the act of Kentucky of -1797; granting furtier time for making surveys, with a proviso, allowing to infants,
&c. threb years after their several disabilities are removed to complete surveys on their entries; if any one or more of the joint owners be under the disability of infancy, &c. it brings the entry with
in the saving of the proviso, as to all of the other owners

rom. X5.

442

CASES EN THE, SUPREME COURT

1826.

THIS cause was-argued by Mr. Sheffey for the

•Aliller's
'

appellants, and by Mr. Talbot for the respondents.

licirs
V.

M'Tintire;

Mr.' Chief Justice MARSHALt, delivered the
Vfarch Ith. opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of
Kentucky, by which the bill of the plaintifls was
dismissed pro forma.
An original bill was filed by Miller's heirs, in
the year 1808, to obtain from the defendants
therein mentioned, the legal title to lands in their
possession, to which the plaintiffs claimed the,
equitable right under a prior entry. The decree
made by the-Court, in that cause, against several
of the defendants, was brought before this Court
'by appeal, and in that case the Court' determined
in favour of, the entry 'under which the title of
the plainitiffs arose. - (2 Wheat. Rep. 316.) An
amended bill was lile4 in 1815, against the present ddfendants in error, who, in their answer,
contend, among other things, that the title of the
plaihtiffs has been forfeited by failink 'to 'make
their survey within the time prescribed by the.
laws of Virgihia; and that the' .compact between
the two States restrained Kentucky froma Varying.
in any 'manner the laws by. which-titles originating anterior to the separation, are to -be ,go'verned.
Henry, Miller, for whoni the, ntry. wvas made,
died in March or April;-1796, having first-made
his last Will in writing; by 4hich he devised his
MarchJd.

OF TE-UNITED STATES.

lands td be sold ftdr tle benefit of all his children,
many of whom weire" mirors.

443

1826.

'The time allowed for making surveys, by tlhe Heirs
first law on that subject, had expired, but the timie M'lti
had "been prolonged, first by the legislature, of
Virginia, and afterwards' by that -of -Kentucky'
until after the deatly'of Miller, dnd the actof
1797, which gave still farther time, contained a
saving of the rights of infants.. In April, 1804,
while the savin- still existed, the survey was'
made.
In the case formerly decided in this Court,. it
was determined that Miller's heirs came within
the saving of the act of 1797, but the compact
between the two States was not',then brought
into view, and the counsel for the appellees insist
that it applies to'this case, and restrains the legis.
lature of Kentucky from prolonging the time for
surveying one entry to the prejudice of another.
On this point a difference of.opinion exists among
the Judges." Some think, that a second entry is
not .authorized by the land law of Kentucky, and
that no title can be acquired tinder it. A grant,_
therefore, that is founded on it is totally void,
and the grantee cannot hold the land under it even
after the original entry became forfeited. The
land, on skich forfeiture, became vacant, and it
was competent to the legislature to grant it by
an original warrant, or to revive or to continle,
the right held under ,the first entry.
Others are of opinion, that a subsequent entryis not absolutely'void, but has been considered as
a valid appropriation of the land, unless it shall

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

be encountered by a better title. That the reor extinguishment of that better title,
'moval
M
Heirs
levves the- holder of a grant, founded on a junior
Xipitire, entry, the true-legal owner of the land it purports
to convey. They think the practice of the
Court, to direct the elder grantee to convey to the
person claiming the equitable title, is strong evidence of the prevailing opinion, that a subsequent locater acquired a conditional interest,
which might be ripened into title by the failure
of the person holding the original entry to proceed as directed by law. But, they think, also,
that this mere possibility could not attach itself
absolutely to the land, until it became vacant by
the laches of the person who had made the first
appropriation. Till such vacancy actually becurred; the power remained with the State to
give farther time for perfecting titles. Limitations of time, in this respect, were intended
chiefly for the benefit of the State, since it was
not the course of the government to tax.unpatented lands. The State, therefore, might grant
indulgences in this respect without giving just
cause of complaint to a person whose interest, it
he had any, was potential, not vested ; was rather a pre-emption to the exclusion of others
-subsequent to himself, than a positive acquisition which could in any manner interfere with the
-rights of the person who had made a previous
appropriation. Without determining either of the
p6ints on which this difference exists, the Court
"isof opinion, that Miller's heirs are within the
savings -of the act giving farther time to the
1826.

445

OF THE UNITED STATES.

owners, of lands to survey the same, and for -re- 1826.
turning plats and certificates to the Register's ','IN'
Willer's
office, passed in the year 1797, and may maintain Helrs
V.
this suit, if no other objection exists to the title.

There seems to have been some confusion at
the trial respecting testimony, and, from the manner in which the cause is brought up, the parties
are placed under circumstances in-this Court
which throw difficulties in the way of the investigation of the title on its real merits. We do
not think such a defence is made out by the defendants as to justify an affirmance of the decree
dismissing the bill ; nor are we satisfied that the
state of the record is such as to enable this Court
safely to decree, that the defendants shall convey
the lands, they hold within the patent of the
plaintiffs. The decree, therefore, must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court, that farther proceedings may be had
therein according to equity.
DECREE.

This cause came on, &c.

,On con-

sideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
the right of the plaintiffs was preserved by the
act giving further time to the owners of lands to
survey the same, and for returning plats and
certificates to the Register's office, passed in the
year 1797, and that the survey on which the patent was founded was made in time. This
Court doth, therefore, REVERSE the decree of
the Circuit Court, dismissing the bill of the
plaintiffs, and doth remand the cause to the said
Circuit Court, that further proceedings may be
had therein according to equity.

,'Intire.

