CASES TN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Cassell

V.
Carroll.

bill mentioned, is REVERSI'D and ANNUl.LED, and
the residue thereof is AFMIRMED ; O1Id the cause
is remanded to the said Circuit Court, with liberty to the plaintiffs to make all proper parties,
that the whole may be sold if all the heirs can be
made parties, otherwise the shares of such as are
made parties. Each party to pay his own costs
in this Court.

[FEUDAL AND CONSTITUTrONAL
HUSBAND,

HENRY

LAW.

AsSIGNMENT

1Y THL

OF A CHOSE IN ACTION, -BELONOING TO THE WIFE.]

CASSELL,

Adminis/rator of

LOUISA

BROWNING,
V.
CHARLES CARROLL of

Carrollton.

The title and claim of CharlesLord Baltimore, his heirs and representativesta the quit rents reserved by the Proprietary of the late Province (now State) of Maryland, was extinguished by the agreement between the heirs, devisees, and persona. representatives of
the said Lord Baltimore, and of his son and heir, Frederick Lord
Baltimore, made in 1780, and confirmed by an act of the Bitish
Parliament in 1781.
R1seem, that a bonafide assignment, for a valuable consideration,
made by a husband, of a debt actnmIly and piesently due to his
wife, devestsrin equity, the title of the wife.
But, however this may be in general, the agreement made in 1780,
including the quit-rents then aetmally due (if at all) to Louia
Browning, the daughter of Charles Lord Baltimore, and assigning
them to Henry Harford, the devisea of Frederick Lord Baltimore,
having been entered into in Ergland, by the husband of Louisa
Browning and net committee, (she being a luatie,) and the consideration having actually gone benficiaily for her use; and the

OF THE UNITED STATES&
whole transaction havine been between British subjects, under the
direction of the High Courtof Chancery, and confirmed by an act
to
of Parliament, tranterred a complete legal and equitable title
the assignee.

ERROR to the Circuit Court-of Maryland.
This was an action of debt, brought by the
plaintiff in error in the (ourt below, f6r the recovery of certain quit-rents alleged to be due
from the defendant to the plaintiff's intestate.
The speoial verdict found by the jury stated the
following flicts.
The jury find, by their verdict, that Charles
the First, in the eighth year of his reign, granted
to (.,celius Calvert, Baron of Baltimore, his
heirs and assigns, for ever, in fee simple, ihe
Province (now. State) of Maryland, by a charter
dated the eighth of June, 1633. CaTcelius Calvert died in 1675, and left Charles, afterwards
Baron of Baltimore, his son and heir, who entered into the said Province, and was seised
thereof. The said Charles, in 1711, granted,
according to the laws of the Province, to Charles
Carroll, Esq. father of the defendant, a.patent
for a tract of land containing ten thousand acres,
"to have and to hold the same unto him, the said
Charles Carroll, his heirs and assigns, fbr ever;
to be holden of us and our heirs, as of our manor of Baltimore, in-free and common soccage
by fealty only for all manner of services, yielding and paying therefor, yearly, unto us and our
heirs, at our receipt at the city of St. Mary's, at,
the two most usual feasts in the year, viz. at the
feast of the annunciation of the blessed Virgin

1826.
Cassell
V.

Carroll.

136

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Cassell

v.
Carrol.

Mary, and St. Michael the arch-angel, from
and after the second day of April, which shall be
in the year of our Lord 1723, the rent of one
hundred pounds sterling in silver and gold."

The defendant inherited the said tract of land
from his father, and is now seised and possessed
of the same. On the 31st day of December,
1698, the said Charles Lord Baltimore executed
a deed, by which lie settled the Province of Maryland on himself, remainder on his son Benedict
for life-remainder on the heirs male of the body
of the said Benedict-remainder to the said
Charles in fee. There were trusts created in
the said deed, all of which are determined. The
said Benedict died in 1714, and Charles, his father, in 1715. The said Bpnedict left isue male
Chales his hoii, a'tc, wai de Lord1 Baltimore, and
proprietor of Mar3land. Benedict left other
sons, all of whom died without issue.
The last mentioned Charles entered into the
Province of Maryland, and was seised thereof,
as the law requires; and, on the 1 1th day of
July, 1730, executed a deed to trustees, to the use
of the said Charles and his assigns for life, remainder to the use of the first and other sons of
the said Charles in tail male successively-remainder to the use of the said Charles in fee.
There were other trusts created in the deed, but
they were all determined at the death of Mary,
the wife of the said Charles, which took place in
1769.
In 1692, an act was passed by the legislature of
Maryland, which declares, that no manor, land,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

137

tenements, or hereditaments whatsoever, within 1826.
the Province, shall pass from one to another, Cassell
except the deed or conveyance be acknowledged
1.
before certain magistrates, and enrolled or re- Carroll.
corded. This act was in force when the indenture of the 31sr of December, 1698, was executed, but the. said indenture was not acknowledged or recorded. '[he. legislature of Maryland, in 1715,. vh. 47. passed an act which requires deeds, and leases for more' than seven
years, to be acknowledged and recorded within
six months from their date. It also declares all
deeds, not acknowledged and recorded, according to the provisions of the act of 1692, to be
void. The deed of the 11th of July, 1730, was
neither acknowledged nor recorded.
The last mentioned Charles Lord Baltimore
had issue only one son. named Frederick, and
two daughters, one named Louisa, (who is the
plaintiff's intestate,) and the other named Caroline. The said Charles Lord Baltimore, being
seised of the Province of Maryland as aforesaid,
made his will in 1750, and devised the Province
of Maryland to trustees, for the use of his son Frederick, and his assigns, fo'r life '- remainder to the
use of the sons lawfully begotten of th" body of
the said Frederick, successively in tail male; remainder to the daughters of the said Frederick;
"and, in default of such issue, thento the use and
behoof of' Louisa, my eldest daughter, her heirs
and assigns, for ever." Charles Lord Baltimore
died seised the 23d day of April, 1751. The
VoL. XI.

18

188

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'

Cassell
(;;T.

Carroll.

said Frederick Lord Baltimore died without
lawful issue, on the 4th day of September, 1771.
Louisa, the plaintiff's intestate, was married

to John Browning, on the 15th day of May, 1762,
and remained covert baron of the said John
until 1792, when he died. The said Louisa'was
a lunatic from the year 1780 till the day of her
death, which took place in November, 1821. She
has never been in the State of Maryland since
the death of her father. Letters of administration were regularly granted to the plaintiff on the

17th day of April, 1823.
Frederick, the son of Charles Lord Baltimore,
entered into the Province of Maryland, and was
seised thereof as the law requires. On the 1st
day of July, 1761, the said Frederick, and Cwecelius Calvert, his uncle, executed a deed of bargain and sale, to Thomas Bennett and William
Sharp, of the Province of Maryland, and its
appurtenances, for the purpose of docking the intail of the Provinle. On the 8th of April, 1767,
the said Frederick e:recuted a deed of lease and
release of Ann Arundel manor, and all'other manors held by .the lord proprietary in the Province, to Bennett Allen, and recoveries were
afterwards suffered of the said manors, in pursuance of the said deed of lease and release.
On the 4th day of March, 1771, Frederick Lord
Baltimore made his will, and devised the Province of Maryland, and all its apqpurtenances, to
Henry Harford.
That upon the death of the said last mentioned Frederick, Baron of Baltimore, lenr.y Har-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

IS91

ford, the devisee natned in his will, was a minor, 1826.
and a ward, under the guardianship of the Court C~assell
V.
of Chancery in Enaland, and so continued until
1779. That the said Henry Liarford, as devisee Carroll.
as aforesaid, was recognised and acknowledged
by the .provincial government of.Maryland, as
the lawful proprietor under the charter, and by
his guardians, with the knowledge and consent of
the British government, entered into the possession of the government of the Province of Maryland, and receivd the rents and revenues
thereof as proprietor, until tihe beginning of the
disturbances which separated the United States
of America from the British government. That
those disturbances began in 1774, at which time
the people of the Province of Maryland took the
government of the said Province into their own
hands, and ousted the officers of the proprietor;
and the government of the said Province so continued in the hands of the people until the dedeclaration of independence, the 4th of July,
1776. That no quit-rents, nor any revenues
which fell due in the said Province after the year
1773, were paid to the proprietor or his officers;
that, after the revolutionary war, the British government paid to the said ilenry Harford 60,000
pounds, as a compensation for his losses in Maryland by the revolution ; and paid to the abovementioned John Browning, and to Robert Eden,
who married the abovementioned Caroline,
10,000 pounds each, as a compensation for their
losses in the said Province, by the said revolution. That suits in the Chancery Court of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

England were" instituted in 1772, by the said
and wife, and the said Eden and wife,
Cal SBrowning
against the said Harford, to recover the
Province
Carroll. and revenues of the said Province of Maryland,
1826.

which suits continued until 1782, when the said
bills were dismissed by the complainants.
In 1780, the legislature of Maryland passed
an act, which declares, that " the citizens of Maryland, from the declaration of independence,
and for ever, be, and they are hereby declared to
be, exonerated and discharged from the payment
of the aforesaid quit-rents, and that the same
shall be for ever abolished and discontinued."
In 1780, an agreement was entered irto in
England, by deed, between llenry Harford of
the first part, John Browning, the husband of
Louisa Browning, and Sir Robert Eden and Caroline his wife, (the said Louisa and Caroline
being the heirs at law of Frederick Lord Baltimore,) of the second part, Sir Cecil Wray, the
committee of the real and personal estate of the
said Louisa, (she being a lunatic,) of the third
part, and Hugh Hammersley and Peter Prevost,
two of the executors named in the will of Frederick Lord Baltimore, of the fourth part, all the
said parties being British subjects. The agreement makes an absolute cession of the Province,
and revenues, &c. from the time of the decease
of Lord Frederick, to Henry Harford and his
'heirs, upon the payment (among other things) of
10,000 pounds to John Browning and Louisa his
wife, and 10,000 pounds to Sir Robert Eden and
Caroline his wife, in the manner stipulated in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

agreement. It also provided in the event of 1826.
the restoration of Henry Harford to the posV.
session of the Province and its revenues, grow10,000
of
sum
additional
dn
for
ing, or in arrear,
pounds, for the benefit of each of said ladies, payable out of the same. The agreement further'stipulated for an application to the British Parliament for an act to confirm the same, and to vest in
Henry Harford and his h,-irs, th' title to the Province, and its revenues, with a provision that the
agreement should be void unless the royal assent
should be given to the act within three years.
The act, accordingly, passed, and was assented
to by the king within the period prescribed. •It
vests the title to the Province, and its revenues,
and quit-rients, &c. absolutely in Henry Harford
and his heirs, subject only to the payment of the
sums before mentioned, and some others not material to be stated.
Upon this special verdict, a judgment was entered in the Court below projorma, by consent,
for the defendant, and the cause was brought, by
writ of error, to this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Webster and
Mr. Raymond, for the plaintiff, and by the Attorney General and Mr. 7 aey, for the defendant.
It has not been thought proper to report the
arguments of counsel, at large, livoiving a great
variety of feudal and constituti)nal learning,
which the Court did nor think it necessary to examine, as the cause was determined upon the
single point of the effect of the agreement made

March 13th
and 14th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

1826.
Cassell

V.
Carroll.

in 1780, and confirmed by act of Parliament in
S1781.

On the part of the plaintiff, it was contended,
1. That the deeds of 1698, and 1730, were
void under the acts of Assembly of 1692, and
1715, referred to in the special verdict; and that,
consequently, Charles Lord Balimore, the testator of the plaintiff's intestate, was tenant .in
fee simple of the Province of Maryland, at the
time of his death in 17.51.
2. If those deeds were not void, theii the said
testator was tenant in tail under the deeds, with
reversion in fee, which reversion was a devisable interest, and was well devised to the plaintiff's
intestate.a
3. Payment of rent to Henry Harf6rd, or his
agents, did not discharge the defendant from his
liability to pay the plaintiff.
4. The act of the legislature of Maryland of
1780, which professes to abolish the quit-rents
from and after the declaration of independence,
is void, on the general principle of the law of nations, that a division of an empire does not affect
vested rights of property, and by the special
provision's of the treaty of peace of 1783, and
the treaty of 1794, between the United States
and Great Britain. The original charter to the
first Lord Baltimore, distinguished between his
public and his private character, and meant to
confer upon him beneficial rights of property ina Calvert's lessee v. Eden, 2 Har.

337.

- MlHenry'e Rep. 279.

Opinion of Sir F. Hargrave,. SC . 1b. 341.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dependent of his political character as the ruler 1826.
of the Province. At all events, the act of 1780 Cassell
could not affect, retrospectively, the quit-rents
V.
which were then 6ctually due, and had accrued Carroll.
from the death of Frederick Lord Baltimore in
1771, until May, 1780, when the act was passed.'
5. That the agreement of 1780, alleged to
have been confirmed by act of Parliament in
1781, is no bar to the plaintiff's right of action.
Upon this last point, (which was the only one
determined by the Court,) it was argued for the
plaintiff. that the agreement contemplated a restoration of Henry Harford to the possession of
the Province, and the payment of large sums of
money consequent on that event, and that this
being an essential part of the contract, which
became incapable of execution by the result of
the war, the agreement could not legally be enforced. It was also contended, that it was not
competent for John Browning, the husband, as
such, to convey the title to these quit-rents belonging to Louisa Browning his wife, so as to
bar her, in case (if survivorship, from the right of
recovery,' and that, she being a lunatic, no act
done by her committee could in any manner affect her eights. A mere intention to reduce into
possession the wife's choses in action, has been
a Vattel, Drait ds Gens. liv. 4. c. 2:§ 22.

Ware v. Hylton,

s Dayl Rep. 199. 239. Georgia v. Brailhford, 3 D'all. Rep. 1.
Teritt v. Tylor, 9 Cranch'.& f ep. 43 46. Orr v. Hodgson,
4 Wheat. Rep. 453. Society, &c. v. New Haven, 8 Wheat. Rep
464.
h Roper. Husb. and ife, 204. 223. 227.

CASES 1N THE SUPREME. COU.1RT

1826.
e
Cassell

v.

Carroll.

held insufficient to bar the widow of her right to
them.,

So, a general assignment in bankruptcy

has not the effect of reducing into possession, a
legacy of stock in trust for the bankrupt's wife,

whose right by survivorship will be ,,tablished
against the assignees.' And a transfer of stock
into the wife's name, to which she beea,e entitled as a distributive share of personal estate
during the marriage, will not be considered as a
payment or transfer to her husband, so as to defeat her right by survivorship.: Supposing,
therefore, the husband had agreed to transfer this
specific claim, it would only operate as an equitable assignment; the assignee must sue in the
name of the husband; and if he did not recover
during the lifetime of the husband, the right
would survive to ihe wife. But, in no point of
view, could it be considered as a legal defence, or
be pleaded in bar of this action.
On the part of the defendants, it was insisted,
1. That as soon as Maryland became a sovereign and independent State, the quit-rents
which fell due after the declaration of independence, were due to the State, and not to the representative of Lord Baltimore. They belonged to him in his public political character as lord
a Blunt v. Bestland, 5 Ves. Rep. 515.

Lumb v. Alilnes, Id.

517.
b Mitford v. Mitford, 9 Ves. Rep. 87.
c Wildman v. Wildman, 9 Ves. Rep. 174. See also, Nash v,
Nash. 2 M11add. Rep. itk;. Hornby v. Lee, 2 Madd. Rep. 16.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

proprietary, and not in his individual private ca-

1826.

pacity.as

Cassell

2. That Henry Harford, being acknowledged
by the Province of Maryland, and by the King
of Great Britain, as the proprietor of Maryland,
was, by such acknowledgment, the lawful proprietor, and entitled to the quit-rents until Maryland
became an independent State
3. If the Province was private property, and
entailable and devisable,, then the entail was
barred by Frederick Lord Baltimore, and the
devise to Henry Harford was good.
4. If Henry Harford was not lawful proprietor, he was proprietor de facto, and, as such,
payment to him would discharge the tenants.
5. That the treaties with Great Britain have no
application to rents falling due subsequent to the
declaration of independence. At all events, the
act of Assembly of 1780, effectually confiscated
the quit-rents due before that time, and so devested the title of Whoever might be entitled to
them, as to extinguish all claim to those quitrents.c
6. That the agreement of 1780, confirmed by
act of Parliament in 1781, bars the plaintiff's
right of action.
Upon this last point, it was argued for the dea 2 B. Comm. 52. 288. Co. Litt. 244. note b. Pownall,
Colonies, 48, 49. Kirk v. Smith, 9 TWheat. Rep. 241. 266. 282.
b 1 Bi. Comm. 106, 107. Derby v. Athol, 2 res. sen. Rep
. 37. Penn v. Baltimore, I Ves. sen. 455.
c Smith v. Maryland, 6 Cranch's Rep. 306
10
VOL. Xf.

v.
Carroll.

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Cal

fendant, that John Browning, the husband, had a
right
to bind all the rights of Louisa Browning
the

Carroll.

actually -due and payable, and, therefore, had a

e

wife, with respect to such debts as were
then

right to transfir, for a valuable consideration,
the quit-rents, actually and presently due. The
cases cited on the other side did not shake this
principle. The case of Blount v. Bestland,- was
not the case of a sale for a valuable consideration, but of a bequest. by a husband to his own
children, of a legacy due to the wife, which he
had not reduced to possession. Mfitford v. Aitford,b was the case of a general assignment of all
his effects by a bankrupt husband, and the Court
determined that it did not pass a legacy which
he had not reduced into possession. But the
argument manifestly admitted, that a particular
assignment of the specific legacy for a valuable
consideration would have produced the effect.
The case of Hornsby v. Lee,c was the sale of a
wife's reversionary, not a present interest. So,
that the power of the husband over the wife's
present debts, immediately recoverable, remained untouched by these decisions. But, in the
present case, the wife was a ward of Chancery,
and was represented by her committee in the transaction, which was advantageous for her, the benefit of which she had received, and now actually
enjoys. The compromise was confirmed by an
act of Parliament obtained on an application of
a 5 Ves. Rep. 515.

c 2 Madd. Rep. 16.

b 9 Ves. Rep. 87.

JF THE UNITED STATES.

the parties, and ought, theretbre, to be considered as annihilating all her claims to the subject in
controversy.

Mr. Justice STORY ddlivered the opinion of the
Court.

This is the case of an action of debt, brought
by the plaintiff as administrator of Louisa
Browning, against the defendant, for the recovery of*certain quit-rents asserted to be due to the
intestate, as Proprietary of the Province of Maryland, and accruing between the years 1771 and
1780. In the Circuit Court for Maryland District, upon the trial of the cause upon the general issue, a special verdict was found, upon which
that Court gave judgment pro forma for the de-

fendant, and the cause has been brought before
us for a final decision, by a writ of error.
The cause has been here argued with great
ability and *care. Many important and difficult
points have been discussed at the bar, upon
which, if we were called to pronounce a decision, we should wish for more time and consideration to mature our judgment. But, aswe have
all come to a conclusion upon one point, which
finally disposes of the whole cause, it. 1s deemed
proper at once to put the parties in possession of
our opinion, without attempting to analyse the
learning which is involved in'others of more
complexity,;and would require more extensive
researches.
For the purposes of the present decision, it is
assumed, (without, however, meaning to intimate

1826.
Cassell

V.

Carroll.
Afard 17th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

any real opinion on the subject,) that every other
in respect to the title and claim of
to the quit-rents in controverBrowningand
Louisa
v.
Carroll.
sy,
is overcome,
the question of the effect of
the agreement concluded between the parties in
June, 1780, and subsequently confirmed by Parliament in the year 1781,. is that to which the
Court has addressed its attention. If that agreement, so confirmed and executed, as the case
finds, extinguished, in point of law, the title of
Louisa Browning to these quit-rents, and passed
it to Henry Harford, there is an end to the present suit. And such, upon the best consideration of the case, in our judgment, was the legal
effect of that agreement so confirmed and executed.
The agreement is quadripartite between Henry Harford of the first part, John Browning,
the husband of Louisa Browning, and Sir Robert Eden, and Caroline his wife, (the said Louisa and Catharine being the heirs at law of Frederlck Lord Baltimore,) of the second part, Sir
Cecil Wray, the committee of the real and personal estate of 'the said Louisa,.she being a lunatic, of the third part, and Hugh Hammersly
and Peter Prevost, two of the executors named
in the will of Lord Frederick, of the fourth part.
The object of the agreement was to make a final
settlement between the parties of all differences,
and particularly to settie the title to the Province
of Maryland, and all the hereditaments and revenues connected therewith. It makes an absolute cession of the Province and revenues, &c.
CassellSdifficulty

OF THE UNITED STATES.

&c. from the decease of Lord Frederick, to
Henry Harford and his heirs, upon the payment
(among other things) of 10,000 pounds to John

1826.
'
Cassell

Browning

Carroll.

and Louisa his wife, and 10,000

pounds to Sir Robert Eden and Caroline his
wife, in the manner stipulated in the agreement.
It farther stipulates, in the event of the restoration of Henry Harford to the possession of the
Province and its revenues, growing or in arrear,
for an additional sum of 10,000 pounds, for the
benefit of each of these ladies, pay.able out of
the same; but as that event.never occurred, it is
unnecessary to dwell further upon it. The
other sums were duly and regularly paid. The
agreement further stipulated for an application
to be made to the British Parliament for an act
to confirm the same, aud to vest in Henry Harford and his heirs, the title to the Province, and
its revenues, &c. ; with a provision, -that the
agreement should be void unless the royal assent
should be given to the act within three years.
The act passed, and was assented to by the king
Ivithin the period prescribed. It vests the title
to the Province, and its revenues, and quit-rents,
&c. absolutely in Henry Harford in fee; subject
only to the payment of the sums before mentioned, and some others.not material to this cause.
What is there, then, to prevent the agreement
and act from having full effect ? The parties
were all British -subjects resident within the
realm; the act of Parliament was passed upon
their own application and agreement; all persons
in interest were fully represented, so far as by

v.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Cassell

V.

Carroll.

law they were capable of being represented;
the conditions stipulated hive been complied
with; the confirmation was absolute; and the intention was, to extitguislh, at law, as well as in

equity, every claim of Louisa Browning to the
quit-rents now in controversy.
It has been argued, that the agreement contemplated a restoration of 1-lenry I-a ford to the
possession of the Province, and the payment of
large sums consequent thereon; and that, this being
a material ingredient in the contract, which became
incapable of execution, the agreement ought not
to be enforced, or held obligatory. It would be
a sufficient answer to this objection, that the
parties, at the time of the execution of the agreement, knew perfectly well that the Province had
assumed independence, and that the chance of
restoration depended upon the issue of the war
then waged between the United States and Great
Britain. They acted upon that state of things,
and provided for the payment of these additional sums,. only in the event of an unsuccessful
struggle~on the part' of the Province. The stipulation, therefore, has not failed, in point of
consideration, from the misconduct of either
party; but the event, in which alone it was to
have any effect, never has occurred. The payment was conditional, and the condition has never arisen, upon which alone the contract could
act.
But there is another answer presented by the
very terms of the agreement itself. It is, that
the parties expressly agreed, that the title to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Province, &c. should vest absolutely upon the

1826.

payment of the first 10,000 pounds; and, of

Ca l
Cassell

course, the other provisions were to rest in covev.
nant only between the parties, and were not to Carroll.
be construed to defeat or devest that title. ' The
act of Parliament treats it in that way, and vests
the title in Henry Harford in fee, conclusively.
It has been further argued, that it was not
competent for John Browning, the husband, as
such, to convey the title to these quit-rents belonging to his wife, so as to bar her, in case of
survivorship, from the right of recovery; and that,
she being a lunatic, no act done by her, committee could in any manner touch her rights.
It is to be recollected, 'that the quit-rents, as Qwzre, How
far contingent
claimed, were debts then actually due (if at all)or reversionary interests of

to Louisa Browning. They were not future libn
the assigned
wife, may
by
contingent or reversionary interests vested in the husband?
her. How far, in respect to such interests, the
husband, or the committee of a lunatic, is by law
authoriied by a conveyance or assignment to dispose of her rights, is a question which we are not
called upon to decide, and upon which we give
no opinion. The case here, is of choses in action actually due to the wife. There can be no
question, that he was entitled to receive them to
his own use, or to extinguish them by a release.
What, then, is there to prevent him from dispo- It seemt, that

an assignment
sing of them by agsignment, at least in equity ? •by
the busbt
band,fa de
It does not appbar to us that it has ever yet
•--actually
dlue
been decided, that a bona fide assignment for aand payable
to the wife, devaluable consideration, made by a husband to a vests, in equi- o
third person, of a debt actually and presetlythe twife.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
e
Cassell

V.

Carroll.

due to his wife, does not devest, in equity, the
title of the wife. So far as authorities have
gone, they seem to proceed upon a different and
opposite doctrine.
The cases of Lumb v.
Mibies, (5 Fes. Rep. 517.) and Mitford v. Mitford, (9 Fes. Rep. 87.) are distinguishable.
They were cases of a general assignment under
the bankrupt laws, which are not supposed to do
more than place the assignees in the same situation -as the bankrupt himself. The. case of
.Hornbyv. Lee, (2 Madd. Rep. 16.) turned upon
another distinction, that the interest was not a
present, but a reversionary interest. Butwithout
deciding any general principle, we think, that
under the particular circumstan 6 es of this case,
where the consideration has actually gone beneficially for the wife, and the whole transaction
has been under the direction of a Court of Chancery,. and been confirmed by Parliament, the assignm.ent was, to all intents and purposes, valid
to assign the rents.
If, in ordinary circumstances, such an assignment would pass" an equitable title only, we think the act of Parliament
makes it, to all intents and purposes, a legal title
and assignment. Without dwelling upon the
known principles -of the paramount and omnipotent authority over private rights and authorities,
which is often attribioted to Parliament, it may
be justly said, that it is competent for the legislature, upon the application, and with the consent
of all the parties in interest, to give a legal and
conclusive effect to their own agreements, and to
pass that at law, which the parties, in the most

OF THE UNITED STATES.

unreserved manner, intended to pass. A title so 1826.
passed, and so confirmed, by authorities perfectly " Cassell
V.
competent to make it, ought, under such circumCarroll
tribunals
the
in
valid
as
stances, to be recognised
of every other country.
This is a summary exposition of the views of
the Court upon this subject; and it at onbe disposes of the whole matter in controversy. The
judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed, with costs.z
a Mr. Justice DUVALL, being a landholder in Maryland, did
not sit in this cause.(1)
(I) The editor has supposed that it would gratify the curiosity of
the learned reader, to be presented with the following note (with
which the editor has been favoured by his friend Mr. Taney) of
an argument in the Court of King's Bench, in 1775, upon a case
sent from the Court of Chancery, in the suit brought by Sir Robert Eden and Others against Henry Harford, to recover possession
of the Province of Maryland and its revenues, -in which the learning respecting the nature of the dominion and proprietary interest of Lord Baltimore in the Province, was very klaborately discussed.
"Trinity Term, 15 Geo. III. B. R. Tuesday, 27th June, 1775.'
11 HARFORD V. BROWNING.

SI*r. Serjeant Hill, for Mrs. Browning and Mrs. Eden.
"Ile first stated the case, and when he had finished this, Lord
.Mansfieldasked, in what shape the cause came before the Court,
and for whom Mr. Serjeant H I1was to argue. The Serjeant answered, that the case came from Chancery to know whether the
last lord had a right to devise; and that, if he could not, it was the
same to Master Hariord whether the property went to Mrs. Browning and Mrs. Eden, the last lord's sisters, as co-heirs of the first
grantee of Maryland, or to Mrs. Browning alone, as devisee of her
'ather. Lord Mansfield then observed, that there would have
been no question if the estate had been situate in England, and
IroL XI.
20

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

%prietary
Cassell
Y.
Carroll.

that the ground of the doubt was its being a seignory and progovernment in America.
q Mr. Serjeant Hill prdceeded in his argument -to the following
effect:
"1The general question is, whether the -Province, and proprietorship, and port duties of Maryland, are well 'devised by the
will of the last Lord Baltimore; and to show that they could not
pass, I shall submit two general points :
" 1. That the property is so high in its nature, and, in other respects, so peculiar, as not to be devisable.
" 2. That the subsisting entails were not well barred by the last
Lord Baltimore, either because he did not do the proper and necessary~acts for barring, or because such entails were not capable of
being barred in any way.
" 1. I apprehend, that the proprietorship of Maryland is not
alienable without the license of tht crown, and much less devisable.
"1The design of the Maryland charter was to erect a ProVince
in the District called Maryland, to establish a form of government
similar to our own, and to place Caecil Lord Baltimore, and his
heirs, at the head of it. The highest powers are conferred, and,
,perhaps, the crown's right to grant some of them may be doubtful; but it is not necessary to this case to determine which could,
and which could not, be granted. Th6 charter gives royal juris,
diction, and a royal seignory. Of the first lind are the powers of
enacting laws with the consent of the Assembly, of erecting
Courts, of appointing magistrates, of punishing criminals, and of
levying men, and all the powers of war and peace. Of the second
kind is the power of making subinfeudations. The charter reserves a tenure of the king as of the castle of Windsor ; for the
law would otherwise have created a tenure in capile. The king
cannot grant without reserving a tenure, for he cannot change the
principles of the constitution, one of which is, that there must be
a tenure. The king constituted Lord Baltimore the lord and proprietor of the whole Province. There is no instance before ef the
grant of a proprietorship. But, though there was not before any
such sovereignty in name, yet, in specie, there was such a property, and the Counties Palatine of Chester and Durham, resembled
it. From the high nature of these powers and jurisdictions, I argue, that the Province could not b'e aliened without license of the

155

OF THE UNITED STATES.
trown, nor-could it be a subject of the statute of wills. At the
time of that statute, no such high property existed in the empire.
The 32d of Henry VIII. in giving the power of devising, men-

1826.

tions manors, lands, tenements, and hereditaments. It begins
with manors, and though herrditaments, which is the last word,
would, singly, have been snfficient to have extended to this propery, yet, coupled with the former words, it is not so. The 13

Carroll.

Eliz. cap. 10. s. 3. begins with enumerating deans, &c. and then
add-, all others having spiritual or ecclesiastical promotions; but
bishops and archbisoups being higher than deans, are not included.

So, the statute of wiils, beginning with manors, shall not extend to
a hi h r dominion, such as proprietary government.

Dependent

kingdoms are not dti..ble w':thout the consent of the superior
prince.

Dominion is not the subject of testamentary disposition;

and Craig says, that all feudists agree in this.

Nor are things

given for the support of dominion, such as theport duties here, in

their nature devisable. With us the king cannot devise the lands
and revenues allotted for the support of his royal dignity. This,
indeed, has not been the subject of judicial decision; and in the
Bankers case, Lord Somers, though he reversed the judgment of
the Court of Exchequer, avoided this point; but our kings never
attempted to exercise such a power. See 5 Mod. Rep. 46. and
Lord Somers' argument in the Banker's case. The 9 and 10 Wim.
III. cap. 23. which gave a revenue -to King William for his life'
recites to be for his household and family expenses ; and now, by
the Civil List Act of Queen Ann, the alienation of the crown re-renue is expressly provided against. But, even before the Civil
List Act, there is no instance of a devise of the royal revenues.
n the present case, it could not be intended that the port duties
hould be alienable. The port duties were created for the benefit
I.f
the subject, and they, and the proprietorship, were intended to
go together. But, I insist further, thaLthe lands themselves are
not alienable. Anciently, when the king made a duke, and gave
possessions to him, they were so annexed to the dignity as not to
be transferrable n ithout a preceding act of Parliament.
See
Godb. 397. In Dyer, fol. 2. a. there is a case very analogous to
the present; for there it is said, that if the king creates a duke,
and gives him 20 pounds a year for the maintenance of his dignity,
he cannot give it to another, because it is not incident to his dignity. Many things,.of a special nature, are unalienable. Digni-

"
Cassell
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME- COURT

1826.

ties are so, because they are personal, and in the blood. Offices
Sof trust are not assignable, unless by the original terms of the
Cassell grant, or by prescription, which supposes such a grant MinisteV.

Carroll.

rial offices are, indeed, assignable, and the power of appointing a
deputy is incidtnt where the office is assitndble. but not vice versa.
See Bro. Abr. tit. Offi ., pl. 108. The office of fbrrester is of
such a trust that it cannot bte granted over without license. 4 Inst.
315. The Register and Pitzherbert,there cited, warrant Lord
Coke in his doctrine. Earldoms are not alienable. The case
about the office of Great Chamberlain in Sir W. Jones, 96. and
Collins' Baronies,contain much learning on this subject, which
applies strongly here. Doddridge, who was with the majority of
the Judges, states every thing which made against his own op;nion.
"Lord Mansfield. The case is very well reported botl in Sir
W. Jones, and in Collins; but there is a great difference between
offices and territories.
"Mr. Serjeant Hill. The Judges who held the office alienable,
only held it partly so, that is, that it might be settled so as to keep
it in the male line; because males were more fit for the office than
women. -But, they agreed, that, though the office was granted in
fee, it could not be disposed of from the blood of the first grantee.
In the present case, it is observable, that the charter makes a difference in the use of the word. assigns. That word is used in
granting the land, but it is omitted where the charter gives the
power of calling assemblies, and enacting laws, of appointing
Judges, and of pardoning crimes. Therefore, these powers, at
least, were not intended to be alienable.
"2. If the whole of.the property, or any part, is disposable by
will, it must be so on this ground, that all the statutes and laws of
England in force at the time of the settlement of Maryland, attached on the Province, though subsequent statutes will not extend
toit without express words, Then I have a right to assume, that
the property is entailable; for the statute De Donts was an existing law at the time of the grant and settlement of the Province,
as well as the statute of wills, and so was the statute of uses.
Now, the property was entatled, and, upon the supposition that
t-tentail was within tke statute L)e Dous4, I argue, that the entail

OF THE UNITED STATES
was not wollbarred by the last Lord Baltimore, and ti Q tlhis gives 1826.
a title to his sister, Mrs. Browning, all the entails bein ,*wspent
Cassell
for want of issue male, and she being the devisee of the reversioner
V.
in fee, by the will of her father.
Carroll.
" Lord Baltimore's mode of barring was by lease and release, a
conveyance the wvalest of all in its operation. Before M1achell
4"Clarke, it was understood, that such a conveyance, by tenant in
tail, woula only pass an estate during his life; and, even according to that case, the estate it passes is voidable on his death by
entry of the issue in tail. See Machell v. Clarke, 3 Lord Raymrn.
.Rep. 678, 2 Salk. Rep 619. 7 Mod. Rep. 18. and Com. Rep.
119. As against those in remainder, it still passes only an estate
during the life of the tenant in tail. But, a feoffment, without
warranty, would have bedn a discontinuance, and, with warranty,
when it becomes collateral, it would have become a bar at this
day for the statute of Ann doth not take away the effect of collateral warranty when it is by a tenant in tail in possession. See
4 and 5 .4nn, c. 16. Therefore, I say, that this was one mode by
which Lord Baltimore might have barred the entail; because, if
he had matle a feoffment with warranty, the warranty would have
been collateral to Mrs. Browning.
" But there was another mode of barring which might have
been used. The Province of Maryland is a fief holden of the
king as of the castl- of Windsor, for so the tenure is reserved.
.4s, in the grant, is not siriltudbiary, but is the same as ut in
pleading that one was seised ut defeodo, which, says Lord Coke,
is to be understood positively that the party was seised in fee. Co.
Litt. 17'. 6. The tenure, then, being as of the castle of Windsor,
the Province is to be considered in the same way as other lands
originall) holden of the castle, and, like other fietd, is to be iapleadable within the manor. A castle, or honour? is only a superior kind of manor. To every manor a Court Baron is necessarily incident, and, therefore, it is so to every castle. The
jurisdiction of a Court Baron is well known.
Without the
king's writ, it .holds plea of personal actions where the demand doth not amount to 40 shillings. With the king's
writ of right, it may hold plea of land. Writs of right are of
two kinds,.patent and close. If the writ is brought in the Lord's
Court, it is directed to him, and ispatent. If he holds no Chart,
or waives, or the tenure is immediately of the king, it is brought in
the King's Court, is directed to the SheriffT, and is close. .Magna

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182.
CasseU
Carroll.

Chart, c. 24. provides against the abuse of the writ of right in
the latter case, by declaring, that prwecipe in capite shall not issue
where the land is not holden in capite. But the practice is otherwise,
and the writ of right has been uisually brought in the Common
Pleas in all these cases. Another writ of right close lies for lands
in ancient demesne. This writ is well known, aud recoveries
are suffered upon it in the Courts of ancent demesne. See Fitzh.
Nat. Br. and Booth on Real Acti ms. The general writ df rithht
patent lies in the Court of the Manor, in all casts where the tenure
is of the subject, or of tht, king, as of an honour; and where the estate lies, makes no difference. 4 Tnst. 219. and Pitz/h. Abr. Jurisdiction, pl. 61. there cited. If a man holds lands as of an hdnour, the bailiff may execute the process as of the Court of the
honour, wherever the lands lie. In the case in Fitzh. Abr. it was
objected, that the officers of the couity palatine of Chester, could
not execute writs'in a foreign county; but it was adjudged otherwise, because the lands were within a manor holden of the principality of Chester.
" There are many precedents of recoveries on writs of right
patent. One is in N. Bendt. p. 4. pl. 4. on a writ of right patent
directed to the bailiff of the castle of Rising. According to this
ancient principle, that whe ever a fief lies it is impleadable in the
manor of which it is holden, the Province of Marylaud might
have been impleaded in the Court of the castle of Windsor, for it
is clearly holden of the castle, and there is a Court Baron necessarily incident. True it is, that if the tenaut pleads a foreign plea,
or the mise is joined on the mere right to be tried by the Grand
Assize, the cause nmust be removed into the Common Pleas. But,
I insist, that a writ of right patent might have been brought in the
Court of the castle of Windsor, and 4hat a -common recovery
might have been suffered; because, then, neither foreign plea, nor
joining of the mise, on the mere right by the grand assize is necessary. The precedent cited from IV.Bend. is in point, and conformable to the principles I am arguin ' upon. The writ of right
patent was for a manor holden of rAsing Castle, and was directed
to the bailiffs of the castle. It appears clearly, that there was a
recovery in the Court of Castle Rising. There was a plaint by
the derjandant, the tenant vouched to warranty, and the vouchee
making defaultjudgment was given for demandant. Afterwards,
a writ of falsejudgment was brought in the Common Pleas by the

159

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1826.

vouchee, and the error was, that the writ of right patent should
have been directed to the suitors ; but the Court held, that the

.

--

*.'

Cassell
bailiffs; vere the proper porsons, and the judgment was affirmed.
V.
See Mad. 1. Another instance of a like proceeding in the Court Carroll.
Baron of the Manor of Wolverhampton, is in R!,bbins' Eat. 323.
There, falsejudument was broueht on this error, that the lands
were not mentioned to be within the manor, but the judgment
was affirmed. In Rastell there are several instances of writs of
false judgment on judgments in writs of right close in Courts of
ancient demesne. Rast. Entr. 221. b. Also, Booth states the
manner of proceeding in the Court Baron on a writ of right patent,
where the cause is not removed. Booth on Real Actions, 89. If,
then, a recovery might be had on a writ of right in the Court Baron, when the proceedinz is adverse, much more might a common
recovery be suffered. Errors in common recoveries are aided by.
the statutes of jeofails, and no ohjectilon is fatal to them but such
as might be pleaded to the jurisdiction of the Court where they
are suffered. But how could such an objection hold in this case?
Every plea to the jurisdiction must state, that there is another
Court in which the' cause may be tried, and which that Court is.
Therefore, if want of jurisdiction is objected to the Court Baron
of Windsor Castle, it should be stated where else the Province of
Maryland can be impleaded ; for fines have been levied ;n the
Court of Common Pleas here, of shares of a proprietorship in
America. The only proprietorships at present are Pennsylvania
and Maryland; but Carolina was once a proprietor-hip, and
whilst it was so, fines were levied here of shares in it. The first
grant of Carolina was to eight persen,. and th word assigns.wns
used throughout. S'irefizcias wa, Ltought to repeal the letters
patent; but no judgment was ever given, for the pi oprietors were
well advised, and agreed to surrender. and an act was made to
confirm- the agreement. See 2 (xeo. 11 c. 34., Though the proprietors were seised in fee, yet this act recites, that from the nature
of the estates proposed to be surrendetecl, great ditficulties might
arise as to the manner of car.ve mg. lu the pr -sent case, like
difficulties induced the advisers of the last Lord ibaltimore to recommend the applying to Parliament; but no act was obtained.
"Lord Mansfield.
e-eding.

He was stopped by the difficulty of pro-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
v
Cassell
Carroll.

" Mr. Serjeant Hill. The last thing I have to submit is, that if
no recovery could be suffered, and feoffment with warranty would
not have been sufficient, then the entail was not barrable in any
way, and the Province of Maryland was ir the same condition as
land here, before the introduction of common recoveries, and of
barring by fine under the statute of Hen. VII. Like an executory devise, the entail is not barrable, hecause a recovery cannot
be suffered. See the case of Scattenrood v. Edge, 12 141od. Rep.
278. The words of Lord Hardwicke, in 2 Vres. Rep. 353. are
very applicable. In speaking of the limitations in the act of Parliament, which made the Isle of Man unalienablo, he says, that if
they were considered on the foot of the statute De D.nis, and
they were estates tail, there was no want of a restrictive clause;
for, before Taltarum's case, whiqh established the docrine of recoveries, and the 4 of Hen. V11. of fines, these, by the statute De
Donis, were unalienable, and of Man there could be neither fine
mor recovery. Here, I say, that the property is not entailable;
but, if it is, it must be because within the statute De Donis, and,
if that statute operates upon Maryland, and no recovery could be
suffered, there was a perpetuity. It is absurd to say, that there
must be -the means of making property alienable because it is
within that~statute; for the statute was made to restrain alienation.
A recovery might have been sufficient to bar; but the conveyance
by lease and release is too mild in its operation, and on such a conveyance by tenant in tail, the olo use reverts to the releasor.
" The capability of losing in an action is a very different thing
from the power of alienation. What is the objection to a perpetuity in such a case as this ? Can any useful end be attained by
making a sovereignty alienable? The cases of copyholds are not
authorities in point, for they depend on custom. Here ir. Serjeant Hill cited many authorities to confirm and illustratte some of
the doctrine he had advanced in the previous part of his argument.
He cited Go. Litt. 108 a. Dy. 44. a. and Bro. Abr. Tenure,
94. to show the difference between tenure ut de corona, and ut de
honore, and that it was in the k ing's option to reserve either;
Co. Litt. 17 a. and I Lev. 222. to prove the word ut affirmative,
and not similitudinary; Co. Litt. 5 a. 2 Inst 31. and the Register, to prove a castle contains a manor; and 4 Inst. 26. Hob.
170. and 2 Bro. Abr. 45. to prove that a Court Baron is incident
to a manor, and that they are inseparable. For, the distinction

OF THE UNITED STATES.

161.

between writs of right patent, and writs of right close, and the 1826.
causes of removal, and that where the former lie, they may be
preferied fo the latter, be cited Fitzh. Nat. Br. 1. to 9. and 11. to Cassell
V.
14. Old. Nat. Br. Fitz. Abr. tit. Droit, pl. 45. Magna Chartal Carroll.
cap. 24. and Bro. Abr.-To show that it was immaterial where
the land happened to lie, he cit d Fifzh. Abr. tit. Jurisdiction,pl.
61. and 4 Inst. 219. He then observed, that the king might
make a new, island arising out of the sea part of a county, and for
this he cited Collis. on Sew. 45. and asked wh- hE could ,iot make
Rep.
a province part of an honour. He also citek. from 1 "Itr.
177. the case of the King against the City j Norw, c, (which
was the case of an information against the lattk - for n )t repairing
some bridges,) to show that the king may erikargE, contract, or
vary the bounds of a county, for the purpose of pirisdiction. He
next mentioned, a second time, that fines had been levied of sbares
of the Carolbna proprietorship; and added, that error on a fine of
land in America had been brought.in B. R., and that it might be
proper to search, in order to know what was done.
(9Lord Mansfield. Fines, and recoveries of plantations in America, with a viz. to bring them within a parish here, were frequent
in the Court of Common Pleas, till provincial laws were made to
provide other modes of barring. But I do not know of any instance of such fines or recoveries in the case of a seignory.
If Mr. Serjeant Hill. In 1 Ventr. Rep. 258. Lord Hale says,
that the writ of right close (for lands in ancient demesne) is not
tobe resembled to another.precipe, and that being directed balliviz
manerii, mention of the manor, without naming the will in which
So, here, mention of the castle of
the lands lie, is sufficient.
Windsor in the writ of right patent, without a viz. to bring Maryland within England, would have been sufficient. Lord C. 3.
North, in 2 Mod. Rep. 49. observes, that it had been long a'dispute
whether a fine of lands in lieu conus was good ; that in King
James's time it was settled to be so, and that, by the same reason,
a recovery shall be good; for they are both amicable -suits and
common assurances, and as they grow more in practice the Judges
have extended them further. He adds, that a common recovery
may be of an advowson, and that no reasons are to be drawn from,
21
VOL. XT.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

the visne, or execution of the writ of seisin, because it is not an
proceeding, but by agreement. This is material, for rommon recoveries of adowsons were anciently in writs of right;

Sadverse

Cas5iell
Carroll.

and though writs of entry are now used, they are improper for an
advowson, and they are only allowed because common recoveries
are by agreement. This is material, for common recoveries of advowsons were anciently in writs of riaht; and though writs of entry are now used, they are improper for an advowson, and they
are only allowed because common recoveries are by agreement.
The observation about the writ of seisin answers the reason in
I Ventr. Rep. 59. why an ejeetment of lands in Jamaica will not
lie here, and shows that it is not applicable to the present case.
That where onejurisdirtion is pleaded to, another must be shown,
Icite Barker v. Dormer, 1 Show. Reo. 191.; andthat a seignory
out of England may be impleaded in the Courts here, I cite 4 Inst.
213. Bro. Abr. Jurisdiction,101. Lien, 75. Trial,53. F'tzk.
Abr. Assize, 282. Vaugh. Rep. 405. As to suing for ancient
demesne lands, I cite 1 Salk. Rep. 56. and 1 Lord Raym.
Rep. 43.
"Upon the whole, the property in question is neither alienable
nor devisable, or, at least, the seignory is not so. If the property
is both alienable and devisable, then, I insist, that it is entailable,
and that the entail is not barred.
1 The supposed necessity of barring by lease and release, doth
not exist; for,
1 1. There might have been a feoffmnent with warranty, and,
2. The Province being holden of 'indsor Castle, is impL aded in
the Court Baron tiere, and a commijon zecovery might have been
suffered there. Besides the Puth rifl.s already cited, to show that
the bailiffs of t-at Court were offikers empetent to hold plea of
the Province in a writ of right patent, tht re is one in Aston's Entr.
.375. If a recovery coul. not be suffe,'ed :n tne Court of the Castle of Windsor, it migh, have be. r suffr'erd on a prwcipe quod
reddat in the Court of Coimmon Pieas; an, the pioperty not being in England was no objection to a recovery, either in the Common Pleas, or the Cou:t of 11inds.r Castle. If it is denied, that
a recovery could be suffere,4 in <.itler )f these Courts, it must be
shown what Court has the proper jurisdic'ion, or the objection
camt, be taken. If z. iecuvery could not be srifflred nny viere,
Ilen I insist, that the entail of the property made it tinalienable

OF THE UNITED STATES.
dud that it descended as a perpetuity; and that it might so descend,
I cite the authority of Lord Hardwicke in 2 Ves. Rep. 353. and

of Jenkins in his Centur.es, 250. and 257.
"Mr. Serjeant Hill cr cluded with citing a case about the writ
of right patent in 6 Co. Litt. i .
1Mr. Kenyon, for Master Harford. The principal questions in
this case, arise on the grant by the crown of the Province of Maryland in the 8 Charles I. and the settlements made of it in 1730,
and 176t. The grant by the crown being by letteis patent under
the great seat of England, the law of England is, therefore, the
rule by which the property must be adjudged upon. It has beet,
truly observed by the Court, that no points could arise, if the property was in England. If the property was situate here, it would
be alienable, devisable, and entailable, and the entail might be
barred by common recovery. But the property lies in America.
and thence arise the difficulties.
1 The questions referred to this Court concern both the Province and the port duties, and their value is great. But the great
value and extent of the property will not make any difference in
deciding upon it, though its situation will. The Province of Maryland was settled by Englishmen, and these carried the law of
England with them. In 2 P. Vis.. 75. it is said to have been
adjudged by the Privy Council, that if a new country is found out
and settled by English snbjets, they carry their laws with them,.
though subsequent-acts of Parliament, without naring, will ncdt
bind the plantation. The like doctrine is laid down in Penn v.
Baltimore; 2 Ves. Rep. 349. with more precision; fqr, there it"is
said, that an English colony carries with them all the laws of England in being at the time of planting it, which are adapted to the
situation; but that no statute, made afterwards. Ninds without
naming them. Now, both the statute De Donis, and that of Wills,
were before the settlement of Maryland, and both have words sufficent to comprehend the proprietorship, the word tenement being
used in the former, and hereditament in the latter. Therefore,
both statutes must extend to the property in question, unless it can
be shown that there is something incongruous in applying them to
Maryland. But they are necessary and convenient laws for Maryland, nor is the law of descents more so. It is objected, that
these statutes may extend to lands granted to the Lord Proprietor

1826.
,
Cassell
V.

Carroll,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1826.
Cassell
V.
Carroll.

in the way of subinfeudation, but that they ought not to be applied
to the seignory and proprietorship. But no rp.'son is given for the
distinction, except saying, that the pr,'-p ietorship is .t transcendent
property, and hath regalities and high pjowers annex, d to it. Is
an assignee or devisee less likely to be fit and able to govern it,
than the descendants of the first grantee, whu may be inlants?
Higher property than this hath been the subject of wills; for
kingdoms have been devised. Constantine devised an empireand
so did Charlemagne; and the same was done in our own country
by Hen. VIII. under an act of Parliament. 4t is said, that the
property is not alienable, because it is annexed to an i ffice of trust.
.But, lands to which offices are annexed, may pass together with
the office. When the champion of England passes his manor, his
office passes with it. The Province of Maryland may be resembled to a large manor. The jurisdictions of some manors were
anciently as extensive, both in crimnal and civil matters, as the
jurisdiction of the lord of 1Alaryland. The power of making bylaws to regulate commons, and other subjects, relative to the tesants, is incident to many manors.
1 But the question doth not depend merely on arguments of
analogy. The proprietorship is granted in free and common soccage, and it was intended to be alienable. The word assigns is
used in the letters patent, and, in some places, is applied to the
seignory itself. The first grantee would not have accepted the
grant on other terms. We should consider, not the present value
of the property, but its value when the grant wds made ; and then
Maryland was a desert, and it is not to be supposed, that the first
grantee would have been at the expense of settling it, if it had not
been made alienable. Besides, the usage since the grant, is an argument in favour of its being alienable. Both Maryland and
Pennsylvania have been constantly subjects of entails and settlements, and this practice ought to weigh something. . Another
strong argument arises from the preamble of the statute 2 Geo. IL
c. 34. about the shares of the Carolina proprietorship. In deriving
titles to the several shares, wills are mentioned. This shows that
it was deemed to be within the statute of wills. The preamble
also recites a cause in Chancery about an agreement to sell the
share of one Dawson, and a decree by the Lords for a specific
performance, on an appeal. The preamble firther recites various
grants to show title in those with whom the crown was contracting

OF THE UNITED STATES.
for the surrender of their shares. All this shows, that Parliament
thought a proprietorship in America alienable like other property.

165
1826.
Cassell
V.

"Lord 1l[an!fleld. In Dawsbn's case, the question between the
parties was not about the power of alienating.
" Mr. Kenyon. The statute of 7 and 8 Win. Il1. c. 22. s. 16. is
also of consequence, for it restrains all persons, and their assigns,
claiming any right, or propriety,in any islands or tracts of land on
the continent of America, by charter, or letters patent, from selling to any but natural born subjects. This act supposes a proprietorship to be alienable.
" Lord Alansfield The clause in the act of William is odd.
Without such a restriction, aliens were incapable of purchasing.
14Mr. Kenyon. In Penn v. Lord Baltimore, the question of
alienation actually occurred ; and though it was not necessary to
decide upon it, yet Lord Hardwicke seems indirectly to have, given
an opinion, that the proprietorship of Maryland vi as 'alienable.
See 1 Ves. Rep. 448.
"Lord Mansf~eld. The question before Lord Hardwicke was on
the effect of an agreement between the Penn and Baltimore families, about the limits of Maryland and Pennsylvania, it being contended that Lord Baltimore had not power to dismember his Pro.
vince, though he might make stibinfeudations; but the question
was determined without deciding any thing on the power of alienating the whole Province.
"4Mr.Kenyon. I cite the case to the sake of Lord Hardwicke's
dictum, and not as an adjudication. Thus, I am in possession of
the opinion of the Legislature, and of the House of- Lords, and of
Lord Hardwicke, as authorities to show, that the property is as
alienable as otper property. It remains to show, that the entail
was well barred by Lord Baltimore, so as to enable him to dispose
by will; and this Mr.'Serjeant Hill makes the great point. The
question is as to the whole Province and seignory, and not as to
any particular parts or subinfeudations. If it had arisen on the

Carroll.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

166,
1826.
Cassell
V.
Carroll.

latter, the forms required 1y the provincial laws might have been
with. But n,> Court within the Province can hold plea
of the seignory itself. See Vaugh. Rep. 404. If no Court can
be found in Maryland for a common recovery, some other Court

~complied

must be found, or there must be some mode of barring the entail
without a recovery. When this cause was before the Chancellor,
Mr. Serjeant 1lill said, that a recol cry might have been suffered
before the king in council ; but that ground is now destrted.
"Lord Mansfield. If any thing had been done for barring there,
it could only have been a p-oceedtng having analogy to common
recovery, the couicil bein'" the proper pl-ce for adverse proceedings about the title to Maryland. The jurisdiction over all the
seignories of the Provinces in America, has resided in the Privy
Council from the time of Elizabeth.
" Mr. Kenyon. Two places for suffering a recovery have been
mentioned; ti.e Court of Common Pit-as, and the Court of the
Castle of Windsor. As to the former, it is said, that fines have
been levied of lands in America, with a.viz. to bring them within
England. But the plea for land is local, and it is impossible by a
viz. to transfer the place to England ; and two or three precedents
are not sufficient for this purpose. Ab to the Court of the Castle
of Windsos, I admit, that one manor holden of another may be
pleaded for in the p-iricipal manor; but I do not know of any instances in which there can be such a plea, except the caqes of
copyhold, and of lands in ancient demesne. Besides, how is
seisin to be given of Maryland by a Court Baron in England ? It
is said, that a recovery may he on a writ of right in the Court Ba.
ron of Windsor Castle; but, if such a Court exists, (which I do
not admit,) it is allowed, that joining the mise carries the cause to
the Common Plsas, and the moment the suit comes there it fails,
for that Court cannot give seisin; and this deficiency, according to
the case of the Isle of Man, in 2 Ves. Rep. 353. would make the
recovery ineffectual. It is said, that Maryland might have been
annexed to a county in England; but the answer is, that it is not
so annexed. Further ; it doth not appear that a Court Baron is
incident to the castle of Windsor. Such a Court may belong to
the honour of Windsor; but Maryland is holden of the castle, and

167

OF THE UNITED STATES.
the castle and honour are distinct. A castle may be part of an
honour or manor. Pitzh. .IV
B. 6 D. I. am told, that the only
Court belonging to tbe castle is for personal actions.
If the entail was not harrable by common recovery, it is to be
considered wh-thor an alienation by some other commou assurance is not sufficient. The mod- by l. a~e and release, is found
fault with; but this con\"-yanceis founded on the statte of uses,
and, since that statute, it passes the fpe az well as any other. As
to feoffment w;th warranty, ib general, it ww:i'd have failed : and
I am not sure that it would have had the proper effect in the case
which hath happened, because, here, the warranty would have descended both on Mrs. Browning and :Irs. Eden, as heirs of their
brother; and, on the supposition that the property is entailable, to
prevent perpetuities, the entail must be barrable in some way. In
general, the power of barriog by romme recoveries, is incident
to entails; and if that mode had not been adopted, the other modes
would have been found out. Where common recoverips cannot
be suffered, alienation is sufficient; and whether it be by feoffment,
or lease and release, the effect ought to be the game. In the case
of'copyholds, where there is a custom for entailing, and no custom
for a common recovery, a surrender is equivalent to a recovery.
This point was adjudged by three Judges aainst one, in Carr v.
Singer, 2 Fes. Rep. 603. and the doctrine was approved of by
Lord Hardwicke in a subsequent case. See Moor v. Moor, 2 res.
Rep. 601. which case, though given by the reporters before Carr
and Singer ., is subsequent in point of ;ime. These authorities
alone are s'iffirlent, but thcr same princ;ples in favour of alienation are to be met with in ancient books. In Wiliun v. Berkley,
Plwd. Rep. 244. Judge Weston argues or tle principle, that
6veey estate tail is barrable; and, in Mary Portingfon's case,
10 Co. Litt. 40 a. Lorva Coke mentions, that Lord Dyer, in a case
before the Lords in Pailiament, reproved one of the counsel for
finding fault with cormniQn recoveries. But, besides the cases of
copyholds, I have another authority, to show that conply;ng with
the ldw of England as nearly as circumstances wll allow of, is
sufficient. I have in my hand the repo-t of a committee of the
Privy Council in the case of Governor W entworth, w'ho was complained of on various charges. One of these was, that he had set
aside grants of land, in the ANmnrican Province of whi. h he was
Governor, without office, according to the forms of the law of

.1826.
Cassell
V.

Carroll.

CASES IN THE SUPREME cOURT

1826.. England; and the Lords of the Committee of the Privy Council,
.Cassell
V.
Carroll.

one of whom was Sir Eardly Wilmot, say, in their report, that in
some of the Am.rican Provinces they have not Courts so correspondent to those in England as to admit of the same forms, and
that, in such cases, if a mode of doing the same thing cypres is
adopted, it ought to be good ex necessitate. See p. 10. of the
Report. This doctrine is applicable to the present ease. The
property is entailable, but a common recovery cannot be suffered
for want of a proper Court, and, therefore, ex necessitate,alienation being the only mode of barring the case will admit of, ought
to be adjudged. sufficient.
But, if the property is not within the statute De Donis, and
yet,should be within the statute of wills, it may be material to consider what consequences will follow. Then, under ihe settlement
of 1733, the last Lord Baltimore had a fee simple conditional,
and if a possibility of reverter is not grantable, as Lord Hardwicke holds in Stafford v. Buckley, 2 Ves. Rep. 180. then the
possibility of reverter, in this case, did not pass to Mrs. Browning
by the will of the father of the last Lord ,B.
but descended on him,
and, for want of an intervening estate, the former merged in the
latter. During the life of the father of Lord Frederick, they
were distinct ; but, afer the feaher's death, they met in the son,
and this union gave him the whole fee.
"Lord Mans~feld. A possibility of reverter is certainly not
grantable.
"Mr. Kenyon. As to the Isle of Man, there is an annotation by
Lord Hale in the new edition of Coke upon Littleton, now publishing, which explains the reason why the statutes De Donis. of
uses, and of wills, do not to extend to Man, in a way not applicable to Maryland. Man was a dominion belonging to the King of
England before those statutes; and Lord Hale says, it was ruled,
that those statutes do not extend there, because 51an was not parcel of the realm of England, and is not specially named. But the
grant and settlement of Marylaid are subsequent to those statutes.
See 20 b. of the new edition of Co.-Litt.(1)
"Lord Manadield. It will be very proper to consider the case of
(1) Bargr.4. Butlr. ed,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
the Isle of Man in 4 nst.and 2 Anderson. Both Maryland and
Man are dominions held of the crown of wFgland;. and the grant
of Man to the Derby family was prior to the statute De Donis,
and yet the Judges held, that it did not extend to it, any more than
the statutes of uses and wills, which were subsequent. The case
of the Duke of Athol and the Bishop of Man, should also be
considered. Lord Hardwicke took great pains in giving his opi.
nion in that case. He gave me a corrected note of his opinion,
and another to the Duke of Athol.
4"Mr. Serjeant HiMl, in reply. It is agreed, that if the property
was in England, the case would be clear against the devisee of'
Lord Baltimore for want of a recovery; and it has riot been
shown that a recovery was impossible. The distinction between
the land and port duties has not been answered. They were separated by King William. He seized the former, but did not
much the latter. The distinction between sovereignty and mere
land is solid. The case from 2 P. WW'. 75. was cited to prove,
that subjects of the King of England carry over our laws with
them into a new settlement; which I do not controvert. A manor is not to be compared with the seignory of Maryland. The
principal powers given to the proprietor of Maryland do-not belong to the lord of a manor.
"The word assigns is necessary to make offices of tnisansferrable; and the reason for omitting it in some parts of the Maryland charter, was to make some parts of the property utalienable. It is omitted in the grant of the seignory. It is said that
kingd6ms are devisable; but there is no instance of the devise of
a dependent kingdom.' I say this on the authority of Craig.
Henry the VIII., and Elizabeth, had acts of Parliament.
"Lord Mansfleld.- By the feudal law, land was not devisable;
much less a kingdom; though William the Conqueror claimed
England under a will.
t' Mr. Sesjeant Hill. It is said, that recoveries on wrfts of right
in manor Courts, have only been in the case of copyholds, and of
lands in ancient demesne. But, in the cases I cited from Benloe and
Robinson, of recoveries in the Courts Baron of Rising and WolVoL. X.
22

169
1826.
,
Cassell
V.
Carroll.

(GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

verhampton, the recoveries were of freehold land, and the words
consuetudinem manerii, which are used where the recovery is of copyhold, or ancient demesne, are not mentioned. The
argument from the entails of copyholds, which are barrable by
surrenders, supposes, that there is no custom to warrant another
mode; but the argument of necessity fails here, for there is another mode. I give the same answer to the cy pre&doctrine in the
report to the Privy Council in Governor Wentworth's case.

Sserundum

Cassell
V.
Carroll.

"CLord Mansfeld. The questions in this case are new, and of
great difficulty. I have often considered them. I do not know
of any litigated case before the present, in which the question has
heen, whether a seignory like that of Maryland can be aliened or
devised. Both the Baltimore and Penn families have made their
proprietorships the subjects of settlements and entails. As to the
statute of William and Ma,,it is strange that it should restrain
from selling lands or proprieties to aliens ; because, .before that
statut", they *ere incapable of purchasing. But, still, the words
of the statute, which mention antiright or propriety in any island
or tract of land in America, by charter, or letters patent, furnish
some argument. In the case of Penn and Baltimore, the question
of alienation could not arise. There the suit was about an agreemuent as lo the bounds of two Provinces; and it is certain, that a
Province cannot be dismembered by aliening one part so as to be
Jolden of another Province. Something might be incidentally
said as to the point of alienation, but there could be no solemn adjudication, for the case did not require it. The jurisdictions and
powers granted by the Maryland charter, are larger than those in
any other. Doubts may arise as to the principality, from the nature of the property. Taking in execution, and other consequences
of its being subject to alienation, may furnish strong reasons of
policy against the power of alienating. The law being settled as
to the principality, a secondary question will be, whether the lands
or port duties can be severed from it. The rule of applying to
America all the laws of England, in force at the time of settling a
colony, is subject to many qualifications. The statute of charitable uses doth not extend to Antigua. There may be a difference,
too, between the seignory and proprietorship of Maryland, and
other estates here. The seignory and proprietorship passed under the gre .Scal, ah4 that carries the law of England. Anothlr

A' THE UNITED STATES.
riing quite new, is the question as to barring the entail. The his- 1826.
tory of barring entails in the Provinces is material. If there had
not been provincial laws to regulate the barring of entails, it might U. S.V.Bank
have been proper to have supported the mode of baring by fines
Smith.
and recoveries in England. The necessity of the case might,
perhaps, hbive justified it. But the provincial laws do not apply
to the seignory and proprietorship of Maryland. The question as
to them is entirely new, and of great difficulty. The pains taken
to show, that a recovery might have been suffered in the Court of
the Castle of Windsor, proves the force of the argument of necessity as to barring by alienation. The case of descendible freeholds, the entails of which are barred in that way, may have influence on the present case.
" The case was ordered to stand for argument a second time
next Michaelmas term ; and Lord Mansfield said, that, probably,
several arguments would be necessary.-,

(PaumissoaR NoTE.

PLEADINGS.]

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY, OF
THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES against
SMITH.
On a demurrer to evidence, the judgment of the Court stands in the
place of the verdict of the jury; and the defendant may take advantage of any defects in the declaration, by motion in arrest of
judgment, or by writ of error.
R seems, that, as against the maker of a promissory note, or against
the acceptor of a bill of exchange, payable at a particular place,
no averment in the declaration, or proof at the trial, of a demand
of payment at the place designated, is necessary.
But, as against the endorser of a bill or note, such an averment and
proof, is, in general, necessary.
Where the bill or note is made payable at a particular bank, and the

