OF THE UNITED STATES.

it must be reversed, and a judgment entered for
the plaintiff here, the defendant in the original

1826.
X

"

see
T.

suit.

Judgment accordirigly.

LSTATUTE or FnVuns.
HINDE's

EVIMENCE.]

Lessee against LONGWORTH.

Question as to the sufficiency of a certificate of acknowledgment of
a deed at lands in Ohio.
In examining the admissibility of testimony in the Court above, the

party excepting is to be confined to the specific objection taken at the
trial.
Where a voluntary deed is impeached as fraudulent, evidence ofjudgments against the gran'tor is admissible as proof, (among other facts,)
that he was indebted at the time of making the deed, although the
grantee was not a party to the suits on which the judgments were
obtai ne d.
A voluntary deed is void as to antecedent, but not as to subsequent
creditors.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Ohio.
This was an action of ejectment brought by the
plaintiff in error, to recover the possession.
of the premises in the cause, described as in lot
No. 107 in the town of Cincinnati. It appeared
in evidence t the trial, that on the 28th of March,
1799, Thomas Doyle, sen. under whom both parties derived title, was seized and possessed of the
lot in question. The lessor of the plaintiff claimed under a deed of that date from Thomas

Longworth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. Doyle, sen. to his son Thomas; and the defendHinde's Les- ant set up a title under a judgment against Doyle
see
the elder, at the suit of John Graff, entered at the
Longworth. August term, 1799, of tle Court of Common Pleas
for the county of Hamilton. At the trial, three
bills of exceptions were taken by the lessor of
the plaintiff.
The first bill of exceptions stated, that the
plaintiff in support of his action offered in evidence the deed from Doyle, sen. to his son, to the
reading of which in evidence, the defendant objected, and the Court fejected it, as not being properly acknowledged. The certificate of acknowledgment was as follows: "Hamilton, ss. Personally before me, Thomas Gibson, one of the
justices of the Court of Common Pleas for said
County, the above named Thomas Doyle and
Doyle his wife, who being examined separate and apart, acknowledged the foregoing deed
to be her hand and seal, free act and deed, for
the uses and- purposes mentioned." Thomas
Doyle only had signed the deed. His wife was
not named as a party to the conveyance except
in the conclusion of the deed as follows: "In witness whereof the said Thomas Doyle and
his wife, who hereby relinquishes-her right of
dower in the .premises, have hereto set their
hands and affixed their seals, the day and year
first above written." A seal was affixed to the
deed, but no signature of the wife.
In the second bill of 'exceptions, the counsel
for the plaintiff. stated, that he -claimed title untier the same deed mentioned in the first excep-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion by virtue of which Doyle the younger became

1826.

seised of the premises in question, which had t-ind'd

descended to the wife of the lessor of the plain-'

S Les--

see

tiff, to which facts he adduced proof to the jury. Longvwoth.

The bill of exceptions then proceeds to state,
that the defendant, in order to prove that the deed
was made with intent to defraud rexditors, having
read certain depositions to establish that fact, offered in evidence the records of two judgments
recovered against Doyle the elder, one at the suit
of John Graff, at the August term, 1799, of the
Court of Common Pleas for the County of 1Hamilton, for upwards of 900 dollars; and the other
in favour of Edward Shoemaker, at the October
term, 1800, of the same Court, for 590 dollars.
To which testimony the plaintiff objected, as incompetent evidence, upon the ground, that the
proceedings in said suits had taken place between other persons than himself and Doyle,
jun., and to which he was not a party. The objection was overruled by the Court, and the testimony admitted
The third bill of exceptions stated, that after
the adinission of the evidence aforesaid, 'the
judgment records.) and in order to repel the
presumption of fraud in Doyle the elder, and
to show that he had no intention to defraud creditors by making the said deed, but to prove that
Doyle the younger, then an infant, was the creditor of his father, the plaintiff offered in evidence the depositions of certain witnesses. The
bill of e.xceptions then proveeded to state, that
the depositions were offered to rebut the eviVOL. XI.

26

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

dence of fraud in fait, and the evidence of a
H~inde's L, s- fraudulent intent in the grantor ; but the Court
see
declared their opinion to be, that the last menV.
Longworth. tioned evidence offered for rebutting the charge
of fraud was inadmissible, and rejected th'e
whole of the evidence so offered.
Upon these exceptibns, a verdict and judgment
having been 'entered for 4Jie defendant in the
Court below, the cause was brought by' writ of
error to this Court.
Feb. 15th.

The cause was argued by Mr. Scott, for the
plaintiff, and by Mr. Webster and Mr. Hammond,
for the defendant.
On the part of the plaintiff, it was contended,
1. That the Court below erred in rejecting the
evidence stated in the first bill of exceptions, of
the acknowledgment of the deed from Doyle,
sen.'
2. That there was error in admitting the evidence offered by the defendant, as stated in the
second bill of exceptions, to impeach the deed
for fraud. It was not fraudulent at common law
prior to the statute 13 Eliz c. 5V and that statute
had never been adopted in Ohio.:
a Co. Litt. 9 b. 3 Atk. Rep. 409. 2,,tk. Rep. 465.
'rial.
Dec. 184. Dougl. Rep. 384. Ambl Rep. 194. 2 Burr. Rep.
193. 6 East's Rep. 486. 9 Mass. Rep. 218. "15 Johns. Rep.
109. 111.
b Roberts oi, Frauds, 12-15. and note (c.) Id. 07. '16. 71.
1 Co. Rep. 93 b. Dyer, 192 b. and -167 b. 10 Ca Rey. 5.
2 P. Wims. 154. 157. 220.
Roberts on Frauds, 37. anti
notu (p.)
c Ordin. Cong. 1787. s. 1. Laws of United States.vol. 1. p.
476. 2 Rev. Code, 302

OF THE UNITED STATEs.

J. The evidence stated in the third bill of ex- 1826.
ceptions was erroneously rejected, even sup- Hinde'sles
see
posing the statute 13 E liz. c. 5. to be in force in
the States which formed the territory northwest Longworth.
of the river Ohio. The statute 27 Eliz. c. 4. is
construed more strongly in favour of purchasers,
than that of 13 Eliz. c. 5. iii favour of creditors.
A mere voluntary conveyance, under the last
mentioned statute, is only presumptive .evidence
of an intention to defraud creditors, and may be
rebutted by countervailing testimony.a The authorities make a distinction between a conveyance to a stranger, and a conveyance to a child,
for maintenance and advancement. The latter
is not considered as voluntary., It is necessary
to prove that the grantor was indebted at the
timen of making the conveyance.c A voluntary
settlement by a trader, who afterwards becomes
bankrupt, is good against all subsequent creditors under the statute of Eliz., although it is void
under the bankrupt laws.' Besides, tlere was,
h-i this case, evidence that the grantee was the
creditor of the grautor, his father; so that, though
he 'as then an infant, the conveyance was not
IIo. Rep. 150. 237. 1 Venlr. Rep. 293. 1 Ch. Cas. 99.
216. 2 Burr. Rdep. 1072. Roberts on Frauds,S0. 191.
b Fonbl.Eq. 12-. (n. 1.) Sugd. V1end. 420. 1 P. Wens.
112.

c I 4tk. Rcp. 94. 1 Ves. sen. Rep. 10. 2 Bro. Ch. Rep. 90.
d 8 Ves. Rep. 199. 1 Swanst. Rep. 106. Brownl. Rep. 189.
5 Ves. Rep. 234. Newt. on Conir. 385. 11 Mass. Rep. 421.
C0Mass. Rp. 390. Jrabl.Rep, 596. 3 Dessaus S. C. Rep. 1.

204

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
e LesHinde's

voluntary, but for a valuable consideration.a

If

it should be objected, that the evidence offered

was contrary to the consideration expressed in
Longworth. th6 deed, the answer is, that the party may aver
and prove a consideration different from that
expressed in the conveyance, if it be consistent
with that expressed." And Courts will uphold
settlements made upon fair and bonafide inducembnts, by every reasonable presumption in their
favour.c
see
V,

On the part of the defendant, it was insisted,
That the statutes of frauds had been practically adopted in Ohio, by the Governor and
Judges, under the provision of the ordinance of
Congress of

1 7 8 7 .d

To adopt them, by reference,

without reciting them at iarge, hasbeen the usual
mode of adopting and publishing the English
statutes which formed parts of the "laws of the
original States." The common law itself is in
force only by virtue of the same adoption. The
statutes of frauds having been heretofore generally acted upon, and considered as in force, the
validity of their adoption and promulgation having never been doubted, ought not now to be
drawn in question. The construction of the
statute as to voluntary conveyances has been settled by this Court. It applies as well to cases
where the conveyance was made in contemplaa Co. Litt. 2 b. 2 Lev. Rep. 217.
b Phill.Evid. 425, 426. and the authorities there cited.
c Roberts on Frauds,80. 149. 2 P. Wims. 245. Cas. Temp.
Talb. 64. 1Ak.Rep. 188.
d Ohio Land Laws, 322.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

205

tion of'creating a debt, immediately afterwards 1826.
contracted, ds of debts actually existing at the Hinde's
"' ' Les-time. But, here, copies of the accounts, upon
see
which the judgments Were recovered, are spread Longworth.
upon the record, by which it appears, that the
causes of action on the part of the creditors of
the grantor, arose before the date of the'deed.
The deed itself distinctly stating the consideration upon whidh it was made, proof of a different
consideration was inadmissible.' If the deed
was not properly acknowledged, and recorded,
it was not notice to the party claiming against
it.c The records of the judgments -were admissible in evidence-to impeach the validity of
the deed, as showing, among other facts, that
the grantor was indebted at the time it was executed. The maxim of res inter alios acta could
not be applicable to this testimony, any more than
to other evidence of the grantor being indebted
at the time.
Mr. Justice THozPsoN delivered the opinion
of the Court.
The premises in question in this cause, are described as in lot No. 107. in the town of Cincinnati ; and, it is admitted on the-record, that on
the 28th day of March, 1799, Thomas Doyle, sen.
was seised and in possession of this lot. Both
a Sexton v. Wheaton, 8 lWheat. Rep. 242.
b 2 P. Wis. 203. 7 Johns. Rep. 341. 1 Ves.sen. Rep. 128.

1 Johns. Ch. Rep. 341.
r 2 Binn. Rep. 44. 51.

4 Wheat. Rep. 486.

Feb. 2W.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

parties derive title under him. The lessor of the
Jlinde's Les- plaintif claims unde? a deed of the date aboveHinders
mentioned, from Thomas Doyle, sen. to his son
see
Vli.
1826.

Longworth. Thomas.

And the defendant sets up a title

under a judgment against Doyle the elder, in favour of John Graff, entered in August, 1799.
Upon the trial, the validity of the deed from
Doyle the elder to his son was the main subject
of inquiry. Three bills of exception were taken
on the part of the lessor of the plaintiff, and a
verdict entered by consent for the defendant, and
the case is brought here by writ of error to the
Circuit Court for the District of Ohio.
1. The first bill of exceptions relates to the
acknowledgment of the deed from Doyle the elder to his son. This was deemed by the Court
insufficient, and the deed rejected. In the secdnd bill of exceptions, however, the counsel for
the plaintiff stated again, that he cl aimed title
under the same deed mentioned in the first exception, by virtue of which I)oyle the younger
became seised in fee of the premises in question,
and which had descended to the wife of the
lessor of the plaintiff, to which facts he adduced
proof, which was submitted to the jury, and to
which proof no objection appears to have beeni
made on the part of the defendant. What that
proof was is not stated, but we must presume it
to have been enough to prove the due execution
of the deed, both because it does not appear to
have been objected to, and because the defendant went into evidence to show the deed was
fraudulent and void, which would have been il

OF THE UNiTED STATES.

together irrelevant if the deed had not been suf- 1826.
ficiently proved to be submitted to the jury. Hindes
LesHinde's Les
see
This might supersede the necessity of this Court
V.
expressing any opinion upon the sufficiency of Longworth.
the acknowledgment of the deed; because, admitting the Court below erred in rejecting it in
the first instance, still, as it was afterwards, in the
progress of the cause, duly proved, the judgment
would not be reversed on account of that error,
if this was the only question-in the cause.
We notice this point only to correct what we
consider a misapprehension of the plaintiff's
counsel as to the practice in cases of this kind.
But, as this cause must be sent back to another
trial, it is deemed advisable to express an opinion upon the sufficiency of this acknowledgment,
the certificate of which is as follows: " Hamilton,
ss. Personally before me, Thomas Gibson, one
of the Justices of the Court of Common Pleas
for said county, the above named Thomas Doyle,
and Doyle his wife, who being examined
Separate and apart, acknowledged the foregoing
deed to be her hand and seal, free act and deed,
for the uses and purposes mentioned." The
question is, whether this can be taken for the
-cknowledgment of Thomas Doyle. He only
has signed the deed. His wife is not named as a
party in any manner, except in the conclusion,
which is* as follows: " In witness whereof, the
said Thomas Doyle, and
his wife, who
hereby relinquishes her right of dower in the
premises, have hereto severally set their hands.
:Ind affixed their seals, the day and year firsi

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

above written."

Hde Les- but
Hinde's

A seal is affixed to the deed,

no signature.

The certificate is insufficient, unless it contains
Longwiorth. enough to show, with all reasonable certainty,
The certificate that, in point of fdct, Thomas Doyle did appear
of
acknow-before the officer and acknowledge the deed.
ledgmcnt insufficient
toAnd this, we think, it does not show. It does
prove the execution of the not even state expressly, that Thomas Doyle apdeed.
peared before the officer ; but if that is to.be insee
V.

ferred, the purpose .for which he appeared is not
stated, so that nothing can be inferred from the
mere fact of appearance. It does not set forth
that he, in point of fact, did acknowledge the
deed, or did any one act that might by possibility
be construed into an acknowledgment.
The
certificate does state that the wife did acknowledge
the deed, which, if true, necessarily implies, that
she appeared before the magistrate, although that
fact is not stated. The form of the certificate is
adapted to the acknowledgment of the wife. It
states, that being examined separate and apart,
she acknowledged the deed to be her hand and seal,
free act and deed. The relinquishment of dower, and the affixing of the seal, show that she
was intended to be made a party; and if the
Court was at liberty to conjecture, or indulge
any jntendment about the real fact, it would be
as reasonable, if not more so, to. infer, that the
wife did appear, and make the acknowledgment
certified, and by mitaKe omitted to sign the
deed, than that the husband acknowledged it.
But the certifica-. of acknowledgment ought not
to be left in such uncertainty. It is exparte proof

209

OF THE UNITED STATES.0

of the deed; and it ought to appear with all rea-

1826.

sonable certainty, that the requisites of the law Hinuce's

Les-

see
had been complied with. The deed was, thereV.
fore, properly rejected in the first instance.
Longworth.
2. The second bill of exceptions necessarily S,¢ond n.ceppresupposes that the deed was in evidence before dion.
the jury. For it states, that the defendant, in
order to prove that the deed was made with intent to defraud creditors, aud, therefore, void,
having read some depositions to prove that fact,
offered in evidence the records of two judgments
recovered against Doyle the elder; one in favour of John Graff, on the first Tuesday in August, 1799, for upwards of 900 dollars, and the
other in favour of Edward Shoemaker, in October term, 1800, for about 500 dollars. To the
admission of which the plaintiff's counsel objected as incompetent evidence, on the ground
that these were proceedings inter alios, to which
Doyle the younger was in nowise a party. The
objection was overruled, and the evidence admitted.
It will be perceived, that the objection to the the
In examining
admissibievidence was specifically placed on the ground, lityoftestimnony, the party
that Doyle the younger was not a party to the excepting
isto
be confined to
judgments. And it may Well be questioned, the
spe ifrob•ecion
taken
whether, when tfie purpose for which the evi- ftthe trial.
dence is offered is specifically avowed, the Court
will look at it in any other point of view, or inquire whether it might not be proper for some
other purpose. As a general rule, we think, the
party ought to be confined, in examining the ad-

Vo'nv. X.

27

210

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

missibility of evidence, to the specific objection
d Les- taken to it. The attention of the Court is callHinde's
see
ed to the testimony in that point of view only;
V.
Longworth.

and, to admit -an

inquiry afterwards, whe-

ther the evidence might not-have been admissible for some other purpose, would be sanctioning a course of practice calculated to mislead.
It is unnecessary, however, in this case, to put
the question on that ground, for the evidence
was admissible in whatever light the objection is
taken.
Lidetce of The consideration expressed in the deed from
the judgments
agai
ist
the Doyle
the elder to his son, is natural love and
granttor
ad,
,issible
!each
theto
dee -affection., and the judgments were introduced to
,ea f,.,,tm seow that the grantor was in debt at the time of
giving the deed, which, as was contended, would
render it void as against creditors. This was,
therefore, necessarily, an inquiry into matters to
which the grantee in the deed was not a party.
It was certainly competent for the defendant to
show that the grantor was indebted at the time
he made the conveyance ; this was a necessary
step towards establishing the fraud ; and if these
judgments conduced to prove that fact, they could
not be sIat out as incompetent evidence. The
extent and effect of the evidence was matter for
the jury. ff the evidence ought to have been
excluded because Doyle the younger was not a
party to the judgments, the same objection would
have lain against the proof of his being in debt
to others in any manner, whatever; that would
have been equally an inquiry into inatters to
which the grantee in ihe deed was. not a party.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

There was, therefore, no objection to the evi- 1826.
dence on this~Hinide's
ground.
eL~esThe judgments appear to have been entered
see
some -short time after-the date of the deed, and Longworth.
it is said, that a voluntary deed is void only as to A lunaty
antecedent, and not subsequent creditors, unless
loe deed
only uisto Void
onmade with a fraudulent intent; and this appears £ecedent, and
not as to subto be the doctrine of this Court, as laid down in sequmt
creditors.
,S
e.,im'
Sexton v. Wheaton, (8 Wheat. Rep. 242.) after aV.(.17nte,wkon,
Vol.
review of the leading authorities on this ques- Evi. here,
p. 242.)
Bt,
the

tion.

But copies of the accounts upon whicnevidenceshow-

the judgments were founded, are spread upon

thefaio

arose before
the record, by which it appears, that the cause
-- the date of tie
of action arose before the date of the deed. Ifdeed,
therefore, a, it
these accounts did not properly form a part of as evidence
to be left to the

the record, according to the course and practicejury,
to grantpeve
that the
of the Court where the judgments were entered, oashe hdeb,it the time
specific objection should have been made to edf-the
their being received in evidence, which would" "' f the

have led to the inquiry whether they properly
formed a part of the record; but, as. the ques"tion is now presented to this Court, we cannot
.say that these accounts are to be stricken out of
the record. They may be looked to for the purpose of showing that Doyle the elder was in
debt at the date of the deed; but, vihe her to an
extent which would avoid the deed, must depend
on circumstances which are not to be inquired
into by this Court. There was no error, there,
fore, in the admission of this evidence.
3. The -third exception arises on the rejection
of certain depositions offered in evidence on the
part of the plaintiff. The introductory part of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

the bill of exceptions sets out, "that after the

Hjd
s
Maide's
Les-

admission of the evidence aforesaid, (the judg-

ment records,) and in order to repel the preLongworth. sumption of fraud in Doyle the elder, and that
had an intention to defraud creditors by
The evidence
offered
by the making
b the said deed, but to prove that Doyle
Plaintiff to r'ePei tile Pr-the
younger was the creditor of his father, the
of
sunlption
see
V.

fr,4,,was
Inissible,

ad-it evidence was offered."

The concluding part of the bill of exceptions
alleges, that the depositions were offered to rebut the evidence of fraud in fact, and the eviDO, y,,,r
Of hic r"t, dence of a fraudulent intent in the grantor,
fhis fatther,i
th
."d, a.., to Doyle the e!,ler. But the Court declared their
having

been

ofierud for tie
doublepurpoe
of,hewing Ithat

to be, that the last mentioned evidence,
for rebutting the charge of fraud, was
d- -Was o.,-inadmissible, and rejected the whole of the said
evidence so offered.
Looking, then, as we must, to the whole bill of
exceptions, to collect its true meaning and import,
we must understand the evidence to have been
offered for the double purpose of showing that
Doyle the younger was a creditor of his father,
and that by reason thereof, although the consideration in the deed purported to be natural love
and affection, it could not be considered as given
with intention to defraud creditors; and, also,
to rebut the evidence of fraud in fact, and to
show the character and situation of Doyle the
elder in point of property, at the time he executed the deed in qu,'stion.
If the testimony offered was admissible for
either of the purposes above stated, the Court
erred in rejectig it.
eldo, illPow,. opinion
or propertyt.. offered
the time lie

OF THE UNITED STATES.

213,

That the evidence was proper for the latter 1826.
purpose, cannot be questioned.
The charge Hinde'sLessee
against the grantor was, that he was guilty of
T.
fraud in fact in making the deed to his son ; ILongworth,
that it was done for the express purpose of defrauding his creditors; and it was proper evidence, therefore, to rebut this allegation, to show
that the grantor had the means of paying his
debts independent of the property conveyed to
his son. Whether the evidence would have
made out that fact to the satisfaotion.of the jury,
is not for this Court to inquire. If it conduced
to make out that fact, it should have been submitted to the consideration of the jury. A deed
from a parent to a child, for the consideration of
love and affection, is not absolutely void as
against creditors. -It may be so under certain circumstances ; but the mere fact of being in debt
to a small -mount, would not make the deed
fraudulent, if it could be shown, that the grantor
was in prosperous circumstances, and unembarrassed, and that the gift to the child was a reasonable provision according to his state and condition in life, and leaving enough for the payment
of the debts of the grantor. The want of a valuable consideration may be a badge of fraud,
but it is only presumptive, and not conclusive
evidence of it, and may be met and rebutted by
evidence on the other side. The evidence offered to show that Doyle the elder was indebted
to his son to an amount equal to the value of the
property conveyed to him, was declared also to
be for the purpose of repelling the presumption

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURW

1826.

of fraud in fact, and to show that there could

\have
been no such intention to defraud his creHindesees Les- ditors, by putting his property out of their reach,
V.

Longworth. without receiving any real and adequate conside-

ration for it. Doyle the elder might have sold
the land tohis son, or to a stranger, for a valuable consideration, and given a good title for the
same, although his debts might have been double
in amount to the value of his property, unless
his creditors had acquired a lien" upon it. It
would have been no fraud in judgment of law
against his creditors, for him to have paid one,
Evidence ad-and
left the others unpaid. Had the evidence
to
inissible
show
anothebeen offered for' the purpose of showing that
consideration
than
that
the
pressed
in ex-the
deed,

ifnot in-and

consistent with
the considera-tLer
tion expressed.

deed was given for a valuable consideration,

in satisfaction" of the debt due .from the fat

h

to the son, and not for the consideration of

love and affection, as expressed in the deed, it

might well be considered as contradicting the
deed. It would then be substitrting a valuable
for a good consideration, and a violation of the
well settled rule of law, that parol evidence is
inadmissible to annul, or substantially vary, a
Written agreement.
But that was not the object for which the evidence was offered, or the effect it was intended
it should have. It could not, in any respect,
vary or alter the deed, or give to it a different
construction or operation between the parties to
it. The defendant had attempted to invalidate
the deed by going into proof of circumstances
out of the instrument itself, and unconnected
with it, and which circumstances, it was con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

215

tended, showed a fraudulent intention in the 1826.
grantor, in conveying the lot in question to .his
Littlepage
son. And the evidence of the father's being
v..
indebted to the son, was to meet, and repel, the Fowler.
presumption of fraud which was attempted to
be raised against the deed by reason of such extrinsic circumstances. The evidence which has
been admitted to show the. fraud, and that which
was'offered to rebut it, related to collateral and
independent facts unconnected with the deed,
and could not, therefore, in any manner, vary
or alter its terms.
The third exception was, accordingly, well
taken. The judgment of the Court below must,
therefore, be reversed, and'the cause remanded,
with directions to issue a venire de novo.

[LoCAL LAW.J"

LITTLEPAGE

against FOWLER and Others.

The following entry is invalid, for want of that certainty and precision which the local laws and decisions require: "January 27
1783. J. C. L. enters 20,000 acres of landon twenty treasury war-,
rants, No. 8,859, &c. beginning at the mouth of a cre-ek falling
into the mainfork of Licking, on the north side, below some cedar
clIfls, and about 55 miles above the Upper Blue Licks, and running
from said beginning up the north side of Licking, and bc-anding
with the same as far as will amount to ten miles when reduced to a
straight line, thence extending from each end of said reduced line,
a noetherly coinrse at-ight angles to the same for quantity."

