42,q

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1826.
Chace
V.

Vasque?
[PRACTICE.]

CHACE and Others, Appellants,
VASQUEZ,

against
the Consul General of Portugal, Respondent.

On a libel in personam for damages, if the Court decrees that damages be recovered, and that Commissioners be appointed to ascertain the amount thereof, no appeal will lie from such a decree
until the Commissioners have made their report; this not being a
final decree.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
The libel in this case was in personamagainst
the owners of the private armed vessel La Fortuna, stated to be owned by American citizens,
for the recovery of damages for the illegal seizure,
&c. of the Portuguese ship Monte Alegre and
carko, which, by a previous decree of the Court,
had been restored to the libellants, no damages
having been claimed in the libel in rem.a A decree proforma was taken for the libellants in
the Circuit Court, and Commissioners were ordered to be appointed to assess the damages;
but the appeal was taken before the Commissioners were appointed, upon the ground that no
libel could be sustained in personam in such
cases.
a Aite. Vol. VII. p. 520.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

430
1826.
Chace

Ir.

Vasquez,
Fb ~11h

Mr. D. Hoffman, for the respondent, stated,
.that the appeal might be considered as well
taken.

The case

f the Palmyra, was distin-

guishable from this, as the damages there claimed were a part only of an entire decree in rem

and in personamr; but that here the sule inquiry
is, whether any libel in personam could be sustained, which was an objection that covered' the
whole libel, and the entire decree; that, although
the report of the Commissioners, when made,
might be appealed from, yet the inquiry was
only as to the amount; and that if no libel could
be sustained, an expensive and tedious investigation would be saved, by first establishing the
point that a libel in personam cannot be sustained in such cases.
The COURT were of opinion, that the case was
embraced by the principle decided in the case of
the Palmnyra,since an appeal would still lie from
the damages when ascertained; but, that, had
tlie decree of the Circuit Court dismissed the
libel, such decree would have been final.
Appeal dismissed.
a 10 Wheat. Rep. 502.

