CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'cited

Brooks
I.
Marbury.

been made at the bar, several cases have been
which have been attentively considered.
No attempt will be made to analyze them, or to
decide on their application to the case before us,
because the Judges are divided. respecting it.
Consequently, the principles of law which have
been argued cannot be settled; but the judgment
is affirmed, the Court being divided in opinion
upon it.
Judgment affirmed.

[AsSIG.NMENT ?OR THE BENEFIT OF CREDITORS.

EVIDENCE.J

BROOKS V. MARBURY.
A debtor has a right to prefer one creditor to another in payment; and
it is no objection to the validity of an assignment for that purpose,
that it was made by the grantor, and received by thq grantee, as
trustee, in the hope and expectation, and with a view of preventing
prosecution for a felony connected with his transactions with his
creditors; if the preferred creditors have done nothing to excite
that hope, and the assignment was made witout their knowledge
or concurrence at the time of its execution, and without a know*.
ledge of the motives which influenced the assignor, or was not afterwards assented to by them under some engagement express or
implied to suppress or forbear the prosecution.
An assignment for the benefit of preferred creditors is valid, although
their assent is not given at the time of its execution, if they subsequently assent in terms, or by actually receiving the benefit of it.
It is no objection to such an assignment, that it defeats all other cre"ditors of their legal remedies, even if amounting to a majority in
number and value, unles Tlere be some express provision of a
bankrupt law toinvalidatetle deed.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Quare, How far, and under what circumstances, the possession of the
property assigned to trustees for the benefit of creditors, continuing in the grantor, will invalidate the assignment.
A certified copy of-a registered deed cannot be given in evidence, if
within the power of the patty claiming under it to produce the original, unless there be some express provision by statute making an
authenticated copy evidence.

1826.
Brooks
V.
Marbury.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia.
This is the same case which is reported ante,
vol. VII. p. 556. The judgment of the Court
below was then reversed, and a venire de novo
awarded. At the new trial, exceptions were
taken to the instructions given by the Court to
the jury; and the cause having again been brought
before this Court for revision, was argued by
Mr. Jones and Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff,a and
by the Attorney General and Mr. Key, for the
defendant.'
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the Feb; iolh
opinion of the Court.
This case depends on the validity of a deed

executed by Richard H. Fitzhugh on the 31st of
December, 1319, purporting to convey to the defendant, for the use of certain eeumerated creditors, his slaves, goods, and debts, which deed
a They cited 6 Hari-is8y Johns. Rep. 234. Hamilton v. Russell, 1 Cranch's Rep. 310. Hildreth v. Sands, 2 Johns. Ch. Cas.
.35.

Ldwards v. Harlin, 2 Term Rep. 587.

b They cited Marbury v. Brooks, 7 Wheat. Rep. 556. Wheaton v. Sexton 4 Wheat. Rep. 503. Astor v. Wells, 4 rheat.
Rep. 466. Sands v. Ilildreth. 14 .I,!in.a.Rep. 49..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Brook
Brooks

V.

was recorded in the record book for the county
in which the parties resided, on the 3d of January,
1820. Immediately after- executing this deed,

Marbury. the said Fitzhugh absconded; and on the 10th of

February thereafter, the plaintiff sued out an attachment to attach his effects in the hands of the
said Marbury. The garnishee denies that he
has any effects of the said Fitzhugh in his hands
which can be affected by the attachment, the
same not being sufficient to satisfy the creditors
enumerated in the deed which has been mentioned. The plaintiff contests the validity of that
dee'd. The jury found a verdict in favour of its
validity, upon which .the Cir~uit Court rendered, a
judgment against the plaintiff, which he has
brought before this Court by a writ of error. In
the coairse of the trial, exceptions were taken by
the counsel for the, plaintiff to some opinions
given by the Court, and to its refusal to give
others for which they applied. The correctness
of the opinions given, and of the refusal of those
not given, will now be considered..
On-the trial, the garnishee offered to read from
the record books of the county, the memorial of
the deed which has been mentioned, to which the
plaintiff objected, and insisted that the original
ought to be produced. The Court overruled
this objection, and the copy was read. To this
opinion of the Court the plaintiff's counsel excepted; and he now insists, that there is no law
of the State of Maryland which directs a deed of
the description of that of which a copy was read
in this case, to be recorded; and that, if there

OF THE UNITED STATES.

were such a law, still the original ought to be

1826.

produced, if within the power of the party claiming under it

•Brooks

.

The act of 1729, ch. 8. enacts, " that from Marbury.
and after the end of this session of Assembly,
no goods or chattels whereof the vendor, mortgagor, or donor, shall remain in possession, shall
pass, alter, or change, or any property thereof
be transferred to any purchaser, unless the saiwn
be by writing, and acknowledged before one provincial Justice of the county where such ,seller,
mortgagor, or donor, shall reside, and be within
twenty days recorded in the records of the same
county."
The counsel for-the plaintiff insists, that this
law directs the recording of those deeds only
which convey property of which the donor xemains in possession, and that the possession in
this case must be supposed to have passed with
the deed, unless the contrary be shown.
This objection is not without its weight. It,
however, does not appear to have been suggested
at the trial, and probably did not occur
the
- 'to ^
it~~~~I
" quKre
a*-factHowof
Court or the parties at the time, or it might haveposon not
ngiaccombeen shown that-in point of fact the possession
1 . .
.. h
partied
the
deed in this
was not immediately changed. Since, however, case,
(6f an
the admission of the evidence was not made to assignment lo
,trustees
for the
benefit of c
depend on the circumstjice of possession, this
S' ditors,) woul
objection canpot be overlooked.
invalidat
it
• " within
the auIt has been, •also,
contended
by
the
plaintiffhorltyofna" ••
"
"
milton v. Ru4that if possession did not accompany and follow,(1ac'
.
the deed, it is void as to ereditors under the au- Rep. 10.)

ATOL. X[.

if

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
B
Brooks
v.
Marbury.

thority of the case of Hamilton v. Russet
( Cranch's Rep. 3l0.) On this point, it may
be proper to observe, that in Hamilton v. Russel,
the deed purported to convey the property to the

vendee for his own immediate use, and the subsequent continued possession of the vendor was
incompatible with the instrument. This is a
deed of trust, not for the benefit of the person to
whom it is made, but for the benefit of certain
enumerated creditors. The continuance of the
possession with the donor until the trust can be
executed, may not be so incompatible with the
deed as to render it absolutely void under all circumstances. The Court does not mean to express any opinion on this point, farther than to
say, that it is not supposed to be decided in
Hamilton v. Russel.
Copy oi

tile

deed inadmissible
dence. in evi-

Should the act of 1729 be considered as applying to this case, the question would then arise.

whether the copy of a deed be admissible where
the original is in the power of the party offering
the copy. This would be contrary to the great
principle, that the best evidence w!ich the nature
of the case admits of ought to be rpquired. But.
it has been said, in answer to this objection, that
the Courts of Maryland have so decided. This
Court will certainly respect the decisions made in
the State; but we are not satisfied that the
principle is settled. In the case cited from 6 Harris 4 Johnson, 234. the question arose on the
conclusiveness, not on the admissibility, of the
evidence. The suit was on an administrator's
bond, and Mr.Me Gruder said. in argumeut. that

t)F 'PTHii UNITED STATES.

the law requires such a suit to be brought on a
copy of the bond. Of course, such copy must be
admissible. It is true, that in deciding against

1826.
-"*'
Brooks
v.

its conclusiveness, the Court said, generally, that

Marbury.

a copy is primafacie evidence in all cases where
the law directs an instrument of writing to be recorded. This is the assertion of a general principle, not the construction of a particular act,
and we understand that the Courts of Maryland
have not adhered uniformly to the principle thus
laid down. There is some contrariety of opinion
on this point; but the majority of the Court conceives that the copy should not have been read,
without showing that the original was not in the
power of the party.
Although the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be reversed for error in admitting improper testimony, yet, as the record presents other
points which must again arise, and which have
been fully argued, this Court will proceed to indicate its opinion on those points.
The deed having been admitted, its validity
came on to be discussed.

Richard H. Fitzhugh had made notes to a very Question
as to
t
kvat
of
considerable amount, and had forged the names the
asasignnent
. as
gaainst
of endorsers the-reon; after which, he had dis- otherito.
counted them in the banks of Georgetown, and
of this city. The proceeds of the deed were tobe applied, in thb first instance, to the payment
of these forged notes; after which, the residue
was for the benefit of the creditors generally. It
is understood that there is no residue; and that
if the deed he valid, the debts due to the favoured

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

creditors will be paid to the exclusion of all
others; if it be invalid, the whole proceeds must
V. be paid to the attaching creditors in the order
marbury. 'which they stand, to the exclusion of those for

'-". '
Brooks

whose benefit the deed was made, and of those
attaching creditors also for whom nothing shall
remain after satisfying prior attachments. It is,
then, a mere question of legal preference, unmixed with any equitable considerations whatever.
It is contended by the plaintiff, that the deed
is void, because the consideration is illegal, it
being given for the purpose of suppressing a prosecution for a felony.
The testimony in the cause was abundantly sufficieat to justify the jury in drawing the inferences, that the deed was executed by Fitzhugh
in the hope that payment of the forged notes
would enable him to escape a prosecution; and
that the same hope was entertained by Marbury.
It is not doubted, that had there been any previous communication with the banks which led to
this hope, or any evidence that the prosecution
was not instituted in consequence of the notes
being paid, or that their payment ivas to depend
on a forbearance to prosecute, the deed would
have been against the policy of-the law, and
utterly void. But, the evidence stated in the case,
and the opinions which were given, as well as
those which were refused by the Court, present
tie question whether, assuming the entire innocence of the f voured creditors, the deed to Marbury is annulled by any hope which might have
lurked in the bosoms of. both the grantor and

oF THE UNITEID ''AT±.
;grantee, that the payment of the notes it was 1826.
intended to secure, might save Fitzhugh from a • Brooks
V.
prosecution.
This case has once .already been before this

Court, on a writ of error to a judgment of the
same Circuit Court, made in favour of the attaching creditor, which judgment was reversed.a But,
although the facts were the same, the opinions
on which the case depended were essentially different from those which are now to be considered. The case wears a new aspect in many respects, and stands on principles which are not
absolutely the same. Although any point already determined, will not be changed lightly or
inconsiderately, yet, we think, that the decision
in the former case does not positively determine
this.
The first exception is to an opinion given on
the prayer of the defendant. The Court instructed the jury, "that if they believed, from
the evidence, that Richard H. Fitzhugh executed
the deed in question, and William Marbury accepted the same, without the concurrence or
knowledge-of the banks mentioned in the deed;
and. that the said banks assented to the same
without any engagement, express or implied, to
suppress or forbear the prosecution of the said
Fitzhugh, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover." To this instruction given by the Court
to the jury, the counsel "for the plaintiff excepted.
a 7 W eat. Rep.. 556.

DlarbuTy.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
o
Brooks

v.

Marbury.

The case assumed is, that the deed was executed "without the concurrence or kn ..wledge of
the banks." At the time of its execution, then,
they cannot be considered as having in any manner participated in it. The terms exclude any
agency whatever on their part in obtaining it.
The case proceeds, " and that the said banks
assented to the same without any engagement,
express or implied, to suppress or forbem the
prosecution of the said Fitzhugh." This branch
of the statement supposes equal innocence on
the part of the banks when the deed was accepted. The case put is, that they had entered into
no express or implied engagement to suppress
or forbear the prosecution. This certainly left
the jury at full liberty to infer an understanding
between Marbury and the bainks. which is an implied engagement, from the fact that they forbore
to prosecute when it was in their power to do so,
if such was the fact. It left the jury at full liberty
to draw this inference from any language oi conduct of the favoured creditors, either before or
after the deed was accepted, which, in their opinion, would justify it. If, then, the Court erred
in giving the instruction, that, in such a state of
things, the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, it
is because the belief on the part of Fitzhugh
and Marbury, that the payment of the forged
notes might save Fitzhugh from a prosecution,
although such a belief was unauthorized by those
for whose benefit the deed was made, and was
not communicated to them, vitiates the conveyance, so that nothing passed by it.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The general principle, that notice to atrustee, or

182g.

an agent, is notice to the'cestui que trust, or to his

Brooks

employer, is too well settled to be drawn into
question. But, the case put to the Court, does

V.

MarbWy.

not suppose Marbury to be the trustee or agent trustee isanoof the creditors. He is the trustee and agent oficeothecestbu

Fitzhugh, to perform an act for him which hisin this case,
the
assignee
was the trussituation disabled him from performing in person.Stee,
not of the
This act was entirely consistent with law; it was creditrs, but
too' the grantor.
to sell his property, and apply the proceeds
the payment of creditors of a particular description in the first instance, and, afterwards, to creditors generally. His right to give the preference
is not questioned, nor is the validity of the consideration, so far as it moved from the creditors,
infected with any vicious principle, or in. any
manned brought into doubt. . A contract, the
consideration of which is the compounding of
felony, is admitted to be void; and if this .conveyance had been induced by such composition,
or the promise of it, or had depended on it, the
fact that it was made for the payment of debts
justly due, would not have secured it from the
effect of this contaminating ingredient. - But no
such ingredient enters into the case. Every
thing on the part of the creditors, or of diny person acting for them, or by their authority, is unexceptionably fair and legal. The plaintiffs rest
their claim to set aside this deed, on the expecta-tions which Fitzhugh and his agent had - formed of its operation on- the' conduct -of the creditos, although the proceedings *under the. deed
were not to be .influenced by.the success or fail-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ure of their hopes. The case put in this prayer
the instruction of the Court, does not, indeed, suppose such i xpectations; but as it does
V
Marhury. not exclude thenu, and as the instruction to the

1826.
Sfor
Brooks

jury is, that the plaintiff cannot recover, whatever
inferences they may draw from the testimony,
not inconsistent with those which the Court supposes to decide the cause, it becomes necessary
to inquire whether these expectations vitiate the
deed.
It cannot be questioned, that Fitzhugh might
have sold his property, and paid the proceeds to
the banks, and that such sale and payment would
not have been vitiated by any expectation he had
formed that it might save him from a prosecution. Had he communicated this expectation to
the purchaser, told him the use he intended to
make of the money, and that his motive for preferring the holders of these forged notes to other
creditors, was the hope, that on receiving payment, they might he less active in the prosecution, would this have rendered the sale a nullity ?
We cannot conceive that such a communication
would have affected the transaction.
Had Fitzhugh conveyed his property directly
to the banks, in trust, to sell it for the payment
bf these notes in the first instance, so that their
right became absolute, without any engagement,
express or implied, to suppress or forbear a prosecution, and without any previous or simultaneous communication with them, would the hope
cherished in his own mind, that this payment
might operate in his favour with them, avoid the

vF THE UNITED STATES.

transaction?' W¥e can perceive no reason for 1826.
giving such ant) effect to a latent hope which could Brooks
have no influence on those to whom it was not
V.
communicated. If, then, this very transaction, Marbury.
passing directly between Fitzhugh and the banks,
would have been legal, why should it be rendered
illegal by the agency of Marbury, who was employed by Fitzhugh, and who was impelled by'
the same motives which influenced his principal ?
If Fitzhugh might have conveyed directly to the
banks, with power to sell for their own benefit,
why might he not convey to Marbury, with power
to sell, and pay the money to the banks ? If a
real distinction exists between the cases, we are
incapable of perceiving it.
The preference of creditors of a particular
description, over others, being one which a debtor has a right to make, the sale of his property,
and the payment of the proceeds to such favoured creditors, being an act which the debtor may
perform byhimself or his agent, we cannot conceive, that the motives which may have induced
the preference, although Communicated to the
agent, can, in reason, affect the transaction, provided nothing has occurred on the part of the
creditors, which is in any degree exceptionable,
either in law or justice.
It has been. said, that this deed, as between
Fitzhugh and Marbury, is fraudulent, and that 'o
person, however innocent, can take any thing
under a fraudulent deed.
This proposition is certainly laid down too
1 7. X .

12

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

broadly. That deeds which ar(, absolutely void
be the foundation of title, or that a cestui

scannot
Brooks

,.. que thust can claim nothing under a deed which
,iWarbury.
is

fraudulently obtained by his trustee, or agent,

acting by his authority, need not be controverted; but that a principal and his agent, meditating, as the probable consequence of their act,
an object forbidden by the policy of the law, cannot, because the one has conveyed to the other
in furtherance of this design, sell to a fair creditor, or for the benefit of a fair creditor, not
participating in their views, or cognizant thereof,
is more than this Court is prepared to say.
Hildreth v.
The counsel for the plaintiff suppose, that this
Sands,
(2
Johns.
ch.
proposition
is sustained by the opinion of ChanRep . 35.) reviewed, and cellor Kent, in fiildreth v. Slands and Others,
itsdicta recon- Vt
xrse
Any opinion expressed
cieo vith th- (2 Johns. Ch.Rep 35.)
present case, by that Judge is, undoubtedly, entitled to great
attention, and will be highly respected by this
Court. In that case, the Chancellor said, "If
the deed is admitted to be fraudulent on the part
of Comfort Sands, the grantor', there would be
difficulty in allowing the deed to stand, even if
the grantee was, as he alleges, innocent of the
fraud."
This expression of Chancellor Kent must,
undoubtedly, be understood in reference to the
case in which it was used. He has not said, nor
could he mean to say, that in every possible case,
a fraudulent intent on the part of the grantor
would avoid a deed to a bnmafide purchaser for a
full and valuable consideration, having no knowledge of the fraud., He has only said, that if44h

OF THE UNITED STATES.

particular deed in that case be admitted to be 1826.
fraudulent on the part of the grantor, there Broolis
would be difficulty in allowing it to stand, even
V.
if the grantee was ignorant of the fraud. An Marbury.
opinion in a particular case, founded on its special circumstances, is not applicable to cases
under circumstances essentially different. In the
case in 2 Johns. Ch. a deed from Comfort Sands,
to his brother Robert, was declared to be fraudulent and void, because, 1. The consideration was
inadequate. 2. There was no proof that the
consideration was paid or secured. 3.. The
grantor continued in possession, exercising acts
of ownership. 4. That there were many circumstances attending the execution of the deed,
showing that it was not a bona fide sale.* The
bill had been taken for confessed against the
grantor, but the grantee had denied fraud. In
this case, the Chancellor said, that if this deed is
admitted to be fraudulent on the part of the
grantor, there would be difficulty in allowing it
to stand, even if the grantee was innocent. But,
in this case, the grantor and grantee were the
sole parties. The vice of the deed was in its
consideration, in its not being intended or used
as a bona fide transfer of other property, and in
other circumstances, in all which the grantee necessarily participated. The Chancellor did not
decree, nor did he think himself justifiable in decreeing, ag-inst the grantee, on a bill taken for
confessed against the grantor. Yet, this circumstance e.stablished the fraud of the grantor as
completely as it could be established by testimci-

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ny. Why did he not proceed upon this fact.
The reason is, that it would not sustain a decree
Brooks
V. against the grantee. We think that this declaraMarbury. tion has been pressed much farther in argument
than the eminent Judge who made it would be
willing to carry it.
: The opinion, that Chancellor Kent intended
fin
Baseley.
1 .giz,
V .s" Rp. to confine this observation to the particular case,
is strengthened by a reference to the authority on
273.)
1826.

which he relies. He cites Huguenin v. Baseley, (14 Vesey's .Rep. 273.) in which case the Lord
Chancellor said, " With regard to the interests
of the wife and children of the defendant, there
was no personal interference on their part in the
transactions that have produced this suit. If,
therefore, their estates are to be taken from them,
that relief must be given with reference to the
conduct of other persons; and I should regret
that any doubt could be entertained whether it
is not competent to a Court of equity to take
away from third persons the benefit which they
have derived from the fraud, imposition, or undue
*influence of others."
These expressions were used in a case in
which Baseley had obtained from Mrs. Huguenin,
by means which the Court. pronounced fraudulent, a settlement of her estate, after her death,
upon himself, his wife, and children. No consideration moved from the wife and children. They
were volunteers claiming under a fraudulent
deed, obtained by a husband and a father, acting
-for their interests as well as his own. In this
case, the Chancellor said, " He should regret

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tfhat any doubt should be entertained whether it 1826.
is not competent to a Court of equity to take Brooks
V.
away from third persons the benefit which they
Marbary°
undue
or
imposition,
fraud,
have derived from the
influence of others." We should join in that regret. But, the distinction between a declaration
that a third person, a mere volunteer, claiming
under a deed fraudulently obtained by a person
acting for his interests, can be reached by a
Court of equity, though such volunteer had " no
personal interference in the transaction," and a
declaration that every person claiming under
such a deed for a valuable consideration, though
entirely untainted by the fraud, and unconnected
with those concerned in it, must, necessarily, lose
his property, is too obvious not to be perceived.
The cases cited by the Lord Chancellor, in support of his opinion, which are also referred to in
Hildreth v. Sazds, are all cases in which the
third person affected by the -fraud claimed as a
volunteer, and was, in some measure, connected
with the party practising the imposition. The
mischief which these decisions were intended to
reach, was- the attempt (to use the language
of Lord Chief Justice Wilmot) "to purify the
gift, by partitioning and cantoning it out amongst
his relations and friends." That a question could
existin such a case, furnishes a very strong argument -in favour of the parties Claiming under this
deed.
The very respectable opinion, then, of Chancellor Kent, does not bear upon this case, nor
have we found in the books any decision which

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Brooks

v.
Marbury.

does bear upon it, so as to affect the creditors
who claim under the deed of the 31st of December, 1819. We think, then, there is no error in
this first instruction given by the Court to the
jury.
The counsel for the plaintiff moved the Court
to instruct the jury, " that if they should be of
opinion, from the evidence, that the deed was devised and executed by Fitzhugh, and procured
and accepted by Marbury, with the motive and
intent, and for the purpose and object, of suppressing a prosecution against said Fitzhugh, by
prevailing with the 'olders of the said forged
notes to forbear and forego a prosecution for the
said forgeries; that then the said deed is fraudulent, and void in law, as against the plaintiff."
In discussing the propriety of refusing to give
this instruction, it may be proper to observe, that
there is no error in rejecting a motion of this
description, unless it ought to have prevailed in
the very terms in which it was made. Nor is a
Court to be required to give opinions on abstract
propositions not supported by any evidence in the
cause. The language in which counsel addressed this application to the Court, presents different ideas to the mind, and is susceptible of different constructions. The Court is required to
say, that the deed is void if executed by Fitzhugh, and procured and accepted by Marbury,
with the intent of suppressing the prosecution,
by prevailing with the holders of the said forged
notes to forbear and forego a prosecution for the
said forgeries. If this was to be the effect of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the deed itself, unaccompanied by any stipula- .1826.
tions which were to be the condition of its ap- Brooks
v.
plication to the purposes for which it professes to
Marbury.
conhave
would
instruction
be made, then the
tradicted that previously given, and was properly
withheld. But, if the counsel is to be understood
as praying the Court to say, that if the deed was
to be used by Marbury, as an instrument by
which to procure the suppression of the prosecu:
tion, that being the condition on which the holders of the forged notes were to entitle themselves to its advantages, it was fraudulent and
void as to the plaintiff, there can be no doubt
that the instruction ought to have been given, unless the Court was satisfied that there was no
evidence in the cause to which it could apply.
The second motion is, in substance, that if the
jury find, from the whole evidence, that the deed
was executed for the intent and purpose aforementioned, and that the preferred creditors accepted the agency of the said Marbury, and
adopted his act in procuring and accepting said
deed, it is competent to the jury to infer a notice,
either actual or constructive, to the said preferred
creditors, through their said agent, of the illegal
consideration, intent, and object, of' the said
deed.
This instruction was refused, because there
was, in the opinion of the Court, no evidence to
authorize the conclusions of fact, in the making
of which the law was to arise. There was no
error in refusing it on this ground. There
would have been error had there been testimony

CASES IR THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

in the cause to authorize the conclusions of fact

r
Brooks

assumed.

The counsel also moved the Court

to instruct the jury, that if the preferred creditors
Marbury. named in the said deed, or aiy other creditors of

V.

the said Fitzhugh, have not accepted or claimed
any benefit under it, and that the same remains
the mere act of Mairbury and Fitzhugl, without
any participation before or after, on the part of
the preferred, or other creditors of the said
Fitzhugh, then the said deed is fraudulent and
void as against the plaintiff.
The Court refused to give this instructiov. In
How far the
assent of the
creditors pre-discussing the propriety of this opinion, it beLerred by the
deed,
wasto necessary
its comes necessary to inquire whether the deed remained imperfect, passing nothing in law to
validity.
Marbury, until it received the assent of the creditors. Upon its face it purports to transfer the
property immediately, without any act on the
part of the creditors or others. It is incumbent
on'the plaintiff to show that this is not its legal
operation.

It will be very readily conceded, that, had the
creditors disclaimed the advantages proffered to
them in this deed, or looked on as unconcerned
spectators while the property was applied by
Marbury to the use of Fitzhugh, these, or other
circumstances tending to show that the deed
was not made in good faith for the purposes expressed- in it, would have induced a Court of
Chancery to set it aside, or have justified a Court
of law in instructing a jury to consider it as
fraudulent. But nothing of this sort is alleged.
The single inquiry is, whether the assent of the.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

creditors be necessary to the completion of the
deed. If it be, then the title to the property it
purported to convey remained in Fitzhugh until
such assent should be given, and might be subjected' to this attachment. If the instrument
was complete without such assent, then the property passed immediately to Marbury for the
purposes of the deed, and did not iemain liable
to attachment.
Deeds of trust are often made for the benefit
of persons who are absent, and even for persons
who are not in being. Whether they are for the
payrment of 'money, or for any other purpose, no
expression of the assent of the persons for whose
benefit they are made, has ever been required as
preliminary to the vesting of the legal estate in
the trustee. Such trusts have alwayz been*executed on the idea that the-deed was complete
when executed by the 'parties to it. The counsel
for the plaintiff could mean no more than to insist, that the omission of the creditors to assent
to the deed; or claim under it, was such evidence
of fraud, that the jury ought to find it fraudulent.
Let this circumstance be examined.
Real creditors are rarely unwilling to receive
their debts from any hand which will pay them.
No such unwillingness can be gratuitously ascribed to the holders of forged notes. Unless
there be proof to the contrary, the banks must
be considered as willing to receive payment from
Mr. Marbury, or any other person, from the proceeds of the sales of this property, or from any
VOL. XL

13

1826.
V.
Warbury.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Brooks

v.
Marbury.

other fund. This deed was executed on the
s31st day of January, 1819, and the attachment
was sued out on the

-10th'

of February, 1820.

Time was requi, ed to sell the property, and to
collect the proceeds of the sales.. It is not alleged, in the statement, on which the opinion of

the Court was prayed, that any notes fell due before the attdchments were issued, and remained
unpaid. These circumstances do not, we think,
afford any ground for the presumption that the
deed was fraudulent, so that the property it purported to convey was, on the 10th of February,
the property of Fitzhugh, and, consequently, liable to be taken by this attachment.
The counsel for the plaintiff then moved the
Court to instruct the jury, that if the great majority in -number and value, of the creditors of
the said Fitzhugh,.were, by means of said deed,
unjustly and purposely hindered, delayed, and
defeated, in their proper suits and remedies, for
the recovery of their said debts, on the absconding of Fitzhugh, and that the deed was executed
with the purpose of defeating all legal recourse
in behalf of such majority of creditors against
the property and effects which said Fitzhugh intended to leave behind, and did leave behind
him, then the said deed is fraudulent and void.
This instruction also was refused.
Effect of the
The -right of, a debtor to prefer particular credeed to defeat
the legal reme- ditors, where no bankrupt or other law prohibitdies of other.
creditors.
ing such preference exists, is not questioned.
Yet, such preference defeats all other creditors,
whether they amount to a majority in number

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and value or not. The Court ought not to have 1826.
left it to the jury to defeat •this right, because they Brooks
might think it uhjust. The instruction prayed by
7_
Marbury.
the counsel, if given, would have defeated it.
The last prayer of the plaintiff supposes, that
the deed was obtained for the purpose of being
used as the means of suppressing the prosecution; and, farther, that Marbury acted as the
agent of the preferred creditors. The refusal
of the Court to give this instruction, must have
been founded on the opinion, that the question
was entirely abstract in its nature. If there was
any evidence tending to this conclusion, which
ought to have been submitted to the jury, the instruction ought to have been given. But if
there was no such evidence, the Court could not
be required to say, hypothetically, what would be
the law had the evidence existed.
This Court is of opinion, that the Circuit
Court erred, in admitting the ifecord :of the deed
offered in evidence, to be read to the jury, without any evidence that the original was not in the
power of the party offerifig the copy. The
judgment, therefore, is to be reversed, and the
oause remanded to the said Court, with directions that the verdict be set aside, a. i a venzre
facias de novo be awarded.a
-a Tit- general principle that, in the absence of any express
provisions of a bankrupt law applicable to the case, a debtor has
a right to prefer onc creditor to another, by actual payment, or a,
transfer to the creditor himself, or by an assignment in trust, if the
creditor be a party to the assignment, or subsequently assents
thereto, has been settled in'a variety of cases in the different

100

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Brooks
V.

~

Courts of this country, both State and of the Union. (Hatch v.
Smith, 5 Mass. Rep. 42. Putnam v. Dutch, 8 Mass. Rep. 287.
Widgery v. Haskell, 5 Mass. Rep. 144. Stevens v. Bell, 6 Mass.

Marbury. . Rep. 339. Thomas v. Goodwin, 12 Mass Rep 140. Cushing
v. Gore, 15 Mass. Rep. 74. Meeker ir. Wilson, 1 Gallis. Rep.
419. Brown v. Minturn, 2 Gallis. Rep. 557'. M'flenomy V.
Ferrers, 3 Johns. Rep. 72. Wilkes v. Ferris, 5 Johns. Rep.
335. Phcenix v. Ingraham, 5. Johns. Rep. 412. Hendricks v.
Robinson, 2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 283. Murray v. Riggs, 15 Johns.
Rep. 571. Austin v. Bell, 20 Johns. Rep. 442. Wilt v. Franklin, 1 Binn. Rep. 502. 514. Bird v. Smith, 4 Dall. Rep. 85.
in note. Lippincott v. Barker, 2 Binn. Rep. 186. Marbury v:
Brooks, 7 Wheat. Rep. 556.)
The resulting trust, or residuary interest, remaining to the assignor, a'fter the purposes of an assignment for the payment of
debts are satisfied, does not avoid the deed, unless iibe made mala
fide, and for the sake of the resulting trust ; nor is such interest
liable to execution against the grantor's property. (Wilkes v.
Ferris, 5 Johns. Rep. 336.) But, where an assignment was made
in trust, (1.) Topay certain preferred creditors; (2.) To pay
the other creditors of the assignor on condi ion of their releasing
their demands ; (3.) In case any of them should refuse to release, then in further trust to pay such of the creditors of the assignor as he should appoint. Certain of these creditors refused,
obtained judgment, and levied on the property in the hands of the
trustees: It was held, that the trust failing as to them, resulted for
the benefit of the assignor, and the deed was, therefore, void, by
the statute of frauds, as to the other creditors; and being void in
part, was void in the whole. (Hyslop v. Clark, 14 Johns. Re p.
458.) But an assignment by a debtor, in trust, with a power of
revocation, is fraudulent only as regards judgment creditors, or
such as are taking measures to recover their debts by suit. (Murray v. Riggs, 15 Johns Rep. 571. 588.) It would, therefore, seem,
that an assignment like that in Hyslop v. Clark would be good,
if the new appointment were made befbre any creditor refusing to
discharge had obtained a jidgment, or brought a suit. It could
not, then, be said to be made to " delay, hinder, or defraud creditors," according to the language of the statute of frauds of Elizabeth. Thus, where A., on the 23d of March, 1798, assigned
property to B.- in trust, to pay him, and certain other creditors,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
with a power of revocation, and to appoint new trusts, and, on the 1826.
31st of iay, 1800, executed an irrevocable deed to B., in trust,
having before made several intermediate deeds, all in relation to Brooks
V.
the some subject, and reserving thie same power of revocation; it Marbury.
was determined, that the last deed was vaid, and might be taken
in connexion. with th, first, and no rights of creditors having ititervened, the first deed was confirned by the last. (Mirray v. Riggs,
15 Johns. Rep. 5; 1. 588.) Aod it has been held in the State of
INew-York, that the deed of assignment may exclude from its benefits such creditors As neglect or refuse to assent to the assign.
ment within a Iin.ted time, throwing the distributive shares, to
which they would have been entitled, into the general mass, for
the benefit of the other creditors provided for by the deed. (S.
C. ib.) But, if the deed, instead of merely excluding the dissenting creditors, and throwing their shares into the general mass, reserves the shares of the dissenting creditors, and directs them to
be paid to the grantor himself, the deed of assignment is fraudulent and void. (Austin v. Bell, 20 Jobns. Rep. 442.) In Massachusetts, it seems, th-it an assianmnent in trust for such creditors
as should, within a certain time, become parties to the deed,-and
release their demands, is void as against the dissenting creditors.
(Ingraham v. Geyer, 13 Mass. Rep. 146. But see Hastings v.
Baldwin, 17 AIas. Rep. 552.) In Pennsylvania, the rule to be extracted from the decisions seems to be, that where no definite time is
limited, or a period very renote, within which the assent of creditors is to be given, the assignment is considered as fraudulent.
But, where a reasonable time is limited, within which the trust
property is to vest in those tor whom the beneficial interest was
intended, it is valid. (Whart. Dig.tit. Deed. 1. pl. 70. 76.)
In the case of Murray v. Riggs, (15 Johns. Rep. 571. 588.) it
was held by the Court of Chancery, and the Court of Errors 6f
New-York', that a reservation, in the assignment, of a sum sufficient
for the maintenance of the assignor until discharged from his
debts, does not invalidate the assignment; though, in case of a
deficiency, the creditors are entitled to have the part reserved applied in satisfaction of their debts. But, in the recent case of
Mackie v. Cairns,which has not yet been reported, it was determined, that such a reservationrendered the conveyance totally void.
As to the question how far the fact of the possession of the pro.
perty assigned, still continuing in the grantor, would affect the va-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
lidity of the deed, it seems to be generally considered, that if the
of the grantor be consistent with the deed, as when the
is continued at the request, and for the benefit of the
Brooks
possession
V.
Marbury. assignees, for their convenience in making the sade, or where the
property is at sea, or out of the country, if possession
is ta!'en by
the trustees within a convenient and reasonable time, the convey.
hite, I Johns. Cao.
(Vredenberg v.
ance will be valid.
156. Meeker v. Wilson, I Gallis. Rep. 419. Dawes v. Cope,
4 Binn. Rep. 258. Wilt v. Franklin, I Binn. Rep. 517. Putnam
v. Dutch, 8 Mass. Rep. 287. Lippincott v. Barker, 2 Rhnn. Rep.
174.) So, a delivery of the key of the warehouse in which the
goods are stored, is a sufficient delivery to transfer the property.
(Wilkes v. Ferris, 5 Johns. Rep. 335.) So is a delivery of the
receipt of the storekeeper for the goods, it being the regular documentary evidence of the title. (lb.)
As to the effect of an assignment for the benefit of creditors,
(whether under a bankrupt law, or a voluntary private assign.
ment, valid by the lex loci,) on property, or the rights of creditors,
in another state or country than that where the assignment is
made, see Hatch v. Smith, 5 Mass. Rep. 42. Widgery v. Haskell, 5 Mass. Rep. 144. Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch's Rep.
289. Ingraham v. Geyer, 13 Mass. Rep. 146. Le Chevalier v.
Lynch, Daugl. Rep. 170. Hunter v. Potts, 4 Term Rep. 182.
Milne v. Morton, 6 Binn. Rep. 353. Burke v. MIClain, L Rarr.
4. M'Henryls Rep. 236. Taylor v. Geary, Kirby's Rep. 313.
Wallace v. Patterson, 2 Harr.8f M'Henry's Rep. 463. Ward v.
Morris, 4 .Harr.8f M'Henry's Rep. 330. This point was much
discussed in the case of Holmes v. Remsen, 4 Johns. Ch.Rep.
460. S. C. 20 Johns. Rep. 229. where all the authorities on the
subject will be found collected. Even after these very learned and
able discussions, it must still be considered as an unsettled ques.
tion of international law.

1826.,

'possession

