258

CASEL

IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Armstrong
V.
Toler.
[IL.EGAL CoN:TRAc'.j

ARMSTRONG, Plaintiff in Error,
TOLER,

against,
Defendant in Error.

Where a contract grows immediately out of, and is connected with.
an illegal or immoral act, a Court of justice will not lend its
aid to enforce it.
So, if the contract be in part only connected with the illegal consideration, and growing immediately out of it, though it be, in fact,
a new contract, it is equally tainted by it.
But if the promise be entirely disconnected with the illegal act, and
is founded on a new consideration; it is not affected by the act, although it was known to the party to whom the promise was made,
and although he was the contriver and conductor of the illegal act.
Thus, where A., during a war, contrived a plan for importing goods
on his own account from the enemy's country, and goods were sent
to B. by the same vessel: A., at the request of B., became surety
for the payment of the du.ties ou B.'s goods, and became responsible for the expenses on a prosecution for the illegal importation
of the goods, and was compelled to pay them: Held, that A. might
maintain an action on the promis6 of B, to refund the money.
But if the importation is de result of a scheme between the plaintiff and defendant, orif the plaintiffhas anvy interest in the goods,
or if they ate consigned to him with his privity, in order that lie
may protect them for the owner, a promise to repay any advances
made under such understanding or agreement is utterly void.

ERRQR to the Circuiit Court of Pennsylvania.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought by
the defendant in error, Toler, against the plaintiff in erjor, Armstrong, to recover a sum of-

oJF THE UNITED) STATE ).

money paid by Toler, on account of goods,

259
1826.

the property of Armstrong and others, con- Armstrong

signed to Toler, which had been seized and
libelled in the District Court of Maine in the
year 1814, as having been imported contrary to
law. The goods were shipped during the late
war with Great Britain, at St. Johns, in the province of New-Brunswick, for Armstrong and
other citizens and residents of the United States,
and consigned to Toler, also a domiciled citizen
of the United States. The goods were delivered
to the agent of the claimants on stipulation to
abide the event of the -suit, Toler becoming
liable for the appraised value; and Armstrong's
part of the goods were afterwards delivered to
him, on his promise to pay Toler his propprtion
of any sum for which Toler might be liable,
should the j ods be condemned. "The'goods
having been condemned, Toler paid their appraised value, and brought this action to recover
back from Armstrong his proportion of the
amount. At the trial of the cause, the defendant below resisted the demand, on the principle
that the contract was void, as having been made
on an illegal consideration. When the testimony on the part of the plaintiff below was concluded, the counsel for the defendant insisted,
on his behalf, to the Court, that the several matters propounded and given in evidence on the
part of the plaintiff were nct sufficient, and
ought not to be allowed, as decisive evidence to
entitle the plaintiff to maintain the issue, and
to recover against the defendant. The judge

Y.
Toler.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

thereupon delivered the following charge to the
which is spread at large upon the record.
1"The rule of law under which the defendant
seeks to shelter himself against' a compliance

Sjury,

Armstrong

V'

Toler.

with hi coiitrautt, to indemnity the plaintiff for
all sunis which he might have to pay on account
of the goods shipped from New-Brunswick for
the defendant, and consigned to the plaintiff, is
a salutary one, founded in morality and good
policy, and which recommends itself to the good
sense of every man as soon as it is stated. The
principle of the rule is, that no man ought to be
heard in a Court of justice, who seeks to enforce a contract ibunded in or arising out of
moral or political turpitude. The rule ifself
has sometimes been carried to inconvenient
lengths; the difficulty being, not in any unsoundness in the rule itself, but in its fitness to the
particular cases to which it has been applied.
Does the taint in the original transaction infect
and vitiate every contract growing ouL of it,
however remotely connected with it? This
would be to extend the rule beyond the policy
which produced it, and would lead to the most
inconvenient consequences; carried out to such
an extent, it would deserve to be entitled a rule
to encotlrage and protect fraud. So far as the
rule operates to discourage the perpetration of
an immoral or illegal act, it is founded in the
strongest reason, but it cannot safely be pushed
farther. If, for example, the man who imports
goods for another, by means of a violation of
the laws of his country, is disqualified from

O_)F PI'L t NI'I'ED STATES.

tounding any action upon such illegal transac- 1826.
tion, for the value or freight of the goods, or Armstrong
V.
other advances made on them, he is justly puToler.
powa
and
act,
the
of
nished for the immorality
erful discourag, ent from, the perpetration -of
it is provided by the rule. But after the act is
accomplished, no new contract ought to be
affected by it; it ought not to vitiate the contract of the retail merchant, who buys these goods
from the importer, that of the tailor, who purchases from the merchant, or of the customers
of the former, amongst whom the goods are distributed, in clothing, although the illegality of
the original act was known to each of the above
persons, at the time he co'itracted.
"I understand the rule, b now clearly settled,
to be, that where the contract grows immediately
out of, and is connected with, an illegal or immoral act, a Court of justice will not lend its aid
to enforce it. And if the contract be in part
only connected with the illegal transaction, and
growing immediately out of it, though it-be,in
fact, a new contract, it is equally tainted by it.
The case before supposed, of an action for the
value of goods illegally imported i'or another, or
freight and expenses attending, fou -ed upon a
promise express or implied, exemplifies a part of
the above rule; the latter part of it may be explained by the following case: As if the, importation was the result of a scheme to consign the
goods to the f'iend of the owner, with the privity
of the former, that ie might protect and defend
them for the owner in case they should be brought

0-62

CASES IN THE SUPIRLEME COURT

1826.
'

Armstrong

V.

Toler.

into jeopardy, I should consider a bond or promise afterwards given by the owner to his friend,

to indemnify him for his advances on account of
any proceedings against the property or otherwise, to constitute a part of the res gesta, or of
the original transaction, though it purports to be
a new contract. For, it Would clearly be a promise growing immediately out of, and connected
with, the illegal transaction. It would be, in fact,
all one transaction ; and the party to whom the
promise was made would, by such a contrivance,
contribute, in effect, to the success of the illegal
measure.
"But, if the promise be unconnected with, the
illegal act, and is founded on a new consideration, it is not tainted by the act, although it was
knou n to the party to whom the promise was
made, and although he was the contriver and
conductor of the illegal act. Thus, if A. should,
during war, contrive a plan for importing goods
from the countiy of the enemy, on his own account, by means of smuggling, or of a collusive
capture, and in the same vessel should be sent
goods for B. ; and A. should, upon the request
of B., become surety for payment of the duties,
or should undeftake to become answerable for
expenses on account of a prosecution foif the illegal importation, or should advance mbney to B.
to enable him to pay tLose expenses; these acts
constituting no part of the original scheme, here
would be a new contract upon a valid and legal
consideration, unconnected with the original act,
although remotely caused by ii; and such contract

OF THE UNITED STATES.

263

would not be so contaminated by the turpitude of 1826.
the offensive act, as to turn A. out of Court when
v.
seeking to enforce it, although the illegal introToler.
duction of the goods into the country was the
consequence of the scheme projected by A. in
relation to his own goods.
"Whether the plaintiff has any interest in the
goods imported by the defendant from NewBrunswick, or was the contriver of, or concerned
in, a scheme to introduce these goods, or evep
his own, if he had any,-into the United States,by means of a collusive capture or otherwise, or
consented to"become the consignee of the defendant's goods, with a view to their introduction, are questions which must depend upon the
evidence, of which you must judge. It ought,
however, to be remembered, that it would seem,
from the letters of introduction of the defendant
to the plaintiff, some time after this importation
had taken place, that these gentlemen were, at
that time, strangers to each other."
And the jurors having submitted to the Court
in inquiry, in the words following, viz. z" The

jury beg leave to ask the Judge, whether Toler
must have an interest in Armstrong's goods to
constitute him a participator in the voyage ? If
simply having goods on board will constitute
him such ?" The Court gave their opinion upon
th6 same as follows: "The plaintiff simply hav.ing goods on board would not constitute him a
participator, or affect the contract with the defendant. Beinginterested in the goods would."
This"charge was excepted to by the defendant,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. and a verdict having been found for the plain tiff;
'. -v- - on which a judgment was rendered in his favour,
Armstrong
v.
the cause was brought, by writ of. error, to this
Toler.

Feb. 24Mk.

Court.

Mr. Webster and Mr. Wheaton, for the plaintiff
in error, stated, that this case arose out of an
illegal impprtation of goods from the enemy's
country during the late war, -upon the false and
fraudulent pretext of a capture jure belli,,which
was finally'pronbunced by this Court to be collusive, and the property condemned to the government.", They argued, that although the abstract
principles, laid down in the charge of the Court
below, might be considered- -as correct in point
of law, no one of the hypothetical cases put by
the learned Judge, fully stated the facts as proved
in the cause. The whole case being' submitted,
and the Court being asked to give a general instruction, the charge ought to have been applicable to the case in evidence, which, it was contended, it was not. Admitting, therefore, the.
opinions in the charge to be correct, it was still
liable to exception, because there was a material
part of the case which it did not embrace. The
charge did not state what the law would be, if
Toler knew, previous to the consignment, that
Armstrong was engaged in this unlawful trade.
The general principle, that no action could be
maintained upon a.contract growing out of an
immoral or illegal transaction, was insisted on
a The Qeorge 1 Wheat. Rep. 408. S. C. 2 Wheat. Rep. 278.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

265

as applicable to this case, where-the transaction 1826.
wds not subsequent or collateral,
but directly Armstrong
,
connected with the unlawful act.a The authoriV.
ties cited would show, that this principle has Toler.
been constahtly recognised in the Courts of justice both in England and this, countrr, and it
might, indeed, be said to form a rule of universal law which had been incorporated into 'the
civil code of every nation."
a Collins '. Blantern, 2 Wils. Rep. 347. Holman v. Johnson,
Cowp. Rep. 341. Biggs v. Lawrence, 3 Term Rep.'454. Cligas
v. Penaluna, 4 Terr Rep. 466. Steers v. Laishley, 6 Term Rep.
61. Booth v." Hodgson, 6 Term Rep. 405. Waymell v. Reed,
5 Term'Rep. 599. Ezparte Mather, 3 Ves.jun. Rep. 373. Rib-bans v. Crickett, 1 Bos. 4- Pull.264. Lightfoot v. Tenant, 1 Bos.
4' Pull. 551. Aubertv. Maze, 2 Bos. k Pull.371. Shirley v.
Sankey, 2 Bos. 4 Pull.130. Thimpson v. Thompson, 7 Ves.
Rep. 47"0. EB parte Daniels, 14 Ves. Rep. 1.91. Ex parte
Bell, I Mlaul. 4 Beiw. 751. Cooth v. Jackson, 6 Ves. Rep. ii.
Branton v. Toddy, 1 Taunt. Rep. 6. Edgar v. Fowler, '3 East's
Rep. 222. Morckv. Abel, 3 Bus. 4- Pull. 35. Blachford v.
Preston, 8 Term Rep. 39. Gallini v. Lakorie, 5 Term Rep. 242.
Sullivan v. Greaves, Park. Ins. 8. Mitchell v. Cockburp, 2 H.
Bi. Rep. 379. Canaan v. Bryce, 3 Barnw. 4. Ald. 179. Duncanson v. M'Clure, 4 DalU. Rep. 308.. Hunt v. Knickerbocker,
5 Johns. Rep. 327. Whitaker v. Cone, 2 Johns. Cas. 58. Belding v. Pitkin, 2 Johns. Ch. 147. Graves v. Delaplaine, 14 Johns,
Rep. 146. Griswold v. Waddington, 16 Johns. Rep. 438. Richardson v. Marine Ins. Co., 6 Mass. Rep. 111. Russell v. De
Grand, 15 Mass. Rep. 35. Wheeler v. Russel, 17 Mass. Rep.
281. Musson v. Frales, 16 M1ass. Rep. 334. Frales v. Mayberry, 2 Gallfs. Rep. 560. Hannay v. Eve, 3 Cranch's Rep.
242. Patton v.. Nieholson, 3 Wheat. Rep. 204. ,Mitchel v.
Smith, 4 Dall.Rep. 269. S. C. 1 Binn. Rep. 110. Maybin v.
.Coulon, 4 Dall.Rep. 298. Biddis v. James, 6 Binn. Rep. 321.
Coulon v. Anthony, 4 Yeates, 24. b Pothier,Des Obligations,No. 43-45. Des Assurances,
No. 58. Em~rigon, Des .ss. tom. 1. p. 211.
VoL. XI.
34

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

-

1826.

Armstrong

v.

Toler.

Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, contra, insisted, that the
law on this subject was accurately laid down in
the Judge's charge, and although there was some
apparent discrepancy in the cases, they would
all be found to be reconciled by the clear and intelligible principles of the Charge. The distinction was, that where the contract was disconnected with the original unlawful act, and was founded on a new and distinct consideration, an action

might be maintained upon it, although it could
not be maintained upon a contract directly arising
out of the illegal act., The questions of fact,
a Faikney v. Reynous, 4 Burr. Rep. 2069. Petrie v. Hannay, 3 Term Rep. 418. Farmer v. Russel, I Bos. 4 Pull. 295.
Tenant v. Eliot, 1 Bos. 4- Pull. 3.. Lloyd v. Johnson, 1 Bos. 4"
Pull.340. Watts v. Brooks, 3 Ves.jun. Rep. 612. Bird v. Appleton, 8 Term Rep. 562. Ezparte Bulmer, 13 Ves. Rep. 313.
Sewell v. Royal Exch. Co., 4 Taunt. Rep. 850. Hodgson v.
Temple, 5 Taunt. Rep. 181. Haines v. Busk, 5 Taunt. Rep. 521.
Simpson v. Bloss, 7 Taunt. Rep. 246. Antoine v. Morshead,
6. Taunt. Rep. 237. S. C. 1 Marsh. Rep *561. Danbroz v.
Morshead, 6 Taunt. Rep. 332. Willison v. Pattison, 7 Taunt.
Rep: 439. Evans v. Richardson, 3 Mferiv. Rep.1469. Edwards
v. Dick, 4 Barnw..4l 4d.211. Woodhouse v. Meredith, 1 Jac.
,k Walk. 204. Whittiungham v. Bourgoyne, 3 Andrr. 900.
Booth v. Jackson, 6 Yes. Rep. 12. Edgar v. Fowler, 3 East's
Rep. 222. Bensley v. Birgold, 5 Barnw. 4- _41d. 335. Johnson
v. Hudson, 11 East's Rep. 180. Gross v. Lapage, I Holt's N.
P. Rep. 105. 107. and cases collected ih note. Hedley v. Lapage, 1 Holt's IV.P. Rep. 392. Duhammel v. Pickering, 2 Stark.
I. P. Rep. 90. Stokes v. Twitcher, 8 Taunt. Rep. 492. Gow
on Partnership, 105. 2 Evans' Pothier, Appendix, No I. p.
8. 1 Ponbl. E . b. 1. c. 4. s. 4. note y. Puffind. 1.,. c. 7. s. 9.
note 2.

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

whether Toler had any interest in Armstrong's
goods, or was the contriver of, or conceined in,
a scheme to introduce them into this country by
any unlawful means, or consented to become the
consignee of the goods with a view to their introduction, werefairly left to the jury, and are
found by them in favour of the plaintiff. So that
the whole question arose upon the abstract correctness of the charge, and the propositions of
law laid down to the jury. Unless these could
be shown to be erroneous, the judgment must be
affirmed. It was also urged, that if the taint of
the original illegality of transactions was suffered to infect new contracts with third parties, upon
different considerations, it would put a most inconvenient restraint upon trade, and the whole
business of life.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court, and, after stating the case,
proceeded as follows:

1826.
Armstrong

v.
Toler.

March

6h.

ion
The only point moved by they defendant's ofExmina
the correct,
counsel to the Court, was, that the evidence was nss of the

not decisive in fav6ur of the plaintiff. The Court
gave this opinion. The charge does not intimate that 'the testimony was conclusive, but
leaves the case to the jury to be decided by them
under the control of certain legal principles
which are stated in the charge. To entitle the
plaintiff in error to a judgment of reversal, he
must show that some one of these principles is
erroneous to his prejudicc.
The main object ofithe charge is to state to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

268

'

1826.

the jury the law of contracts on an illegal consi-

Armstrong

deration, so far as it was supposed to bear on the
case before them. To enable them to apply the

V..

TeleX.

law to .the facts, the Court supposed many cases
in which the contract would be void, the consideration being illegal. It is unnecessary to review this part of the charge, because it is entirely
favourable to the plaintiff in error.
After having stated the law to be, that where
the contract grows immediately out of an illegal
act, a Court of justice will not enforce it, the
Court proceeds to say, " But if the promise be
unconnected with the illegal act, and is founded
on a new consideration, it is not tainted by the
act, although it was known to the party to whom
the promise was made, and although he was the
contriver and conductor of the illegal act. Thus,
if A. should, during war, contrive a plan for importing goods from the country of the enemy, on
his own account, by means of smuggling, or of a
collusive capture, and goods should be sent in
the same vessel for B. ; and A. should, upon the
request of B., become surety for the payment of
the duties, or should undertake to become answerable for the expenses on account of a prosecution for illegal importation, or should advance money to B. to enable him to pay those
expenses ; these acts constituting no part of the
original scheme, here would be a new contract
upon a valid and legal consideration, unconnected with the original act, although remotely caused
by it, and such contract would not be so contaminated by the turpitude of the offensive act, as

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to turn, A. out of Court when seeking to enforce
it; although the illegal introduction of'the goods

into the country was the consequence of the
scheme projected by A. in relation to his own
goods."
If this opinion be contrary to law, the judgment ought to be reversed. The opinion is, that
a new contract, founded on a new consideration,
although in relation to property respecting which
there had been unlawful transactions between
the parties, is not itself unlawful. This general
proposition is illustrated by particular examples,
and will be best understood by considering the
examples themselves. :The case supposed is,
that A., during a war, contrives a plan for importing goods on his own account from the country of the enemy, ana&that goods are sent to B.
by the same vessel. A., at the. re uest of B.,,
becomes surety for the payment of the duties
wvich accrue on the goods of B., and is,-4ompelled to pay them; can he maintain an action on
the promise of B. to return this money? The
opinion is, that such an action may be sustained.
The case does no t suppose A. to he concerned,
or in any manner instrumental in pronioting the
illegal importation of B., but to have been merely
engaged himself in a similar,-illegal transaction,
and to have devised the plan fdr himself, which
B. afterwards adopted. Xhis ilfustration explains what was meant by the general words
previously used, which, unexplained, would have
been exceptionable.
The contract made with the government for

269

1826.
Armstrofg

V.
Toler.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. the payment of duties, is a substantive inde"'
~'' pendent contract, entirely distinct from the unArmstrong
V. lawful importationi
The consideration is not
infected with the vice of the importation. If
the amount of duties be paid by A. for B., it is
the payment of a debt due in good faith from B.
to the government; and if it may not constitute
the consideration of a promise to repay it, the
reason must be, that two persons who are separately engaged in an unlawful trade, can make
rio contract with each other; at any rate, no contract, which, in any manner, respects the goods
unlawfully imported by either of them. This
would be, to connect distinct, and independent
transactions with each other, and to infuse into
one which was perfectly fair and legal in itself,
the contaminating matter which infected the
other. This would introduce extensive mischief
into the ordinary affairs.and transactions of life,
not compensated by any one accompanying advantage.
act
of
The same principle, diversified in form, is illusTlte
tdefe ding
prosecution for trated by another example. If.A. should become
an
unlawful
importation,
and contmaets answerable for expenses on account of a prosegrowing out ocution for the illegal importation, or should adthe defence, in-

dependent
(he

ofvance money to B. to enable him to pay those
expenses, these acts, the Court thought, would
constitute a new contract, the consideration of

unlawful

importation,
are vald.

which would be sufficient to maintain an action.
It cannot be questioned that, however strongly
the laws may denounce the crime of importing
goods from the enemy i' time of war, the act of
defending a pl'osecution instituted in conse.-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

271

quence of such illegal importation is perfectly 1826.
lawful. Money advanced then by a friend in Armstrong
v.
such a case, is advanced for a lawful purpose,
Toler.
and a promise to repay it is, made on a lawful
consideration. The ci.minal importation constitutes no part of this consideration.
It is laid down with great clearness, that if the
importation was the result of a scheme between
the plaintiff and defendant, or if the plaintiff
had any interest in the *goods, or if they were
consigned to him with his privity, that he might
protect and defend them for the owner, a bond
or promise given to repay iany advances made in
pursuance of such understanding or agreement,
would be utterly void.
The questions whether the plaintiff had any
interest in the goods of the defendant, or was
the contriver of, or concerned in, a scheme to introduce them, or consented to become the consignee of the defendant's goods, with a view to
their introduction, were left to the jury. The
point of law decided is, that a subsequent independent contract, founded on a new consideration, is not contaminated by the illegal importation, although such illegal importation was
known to Toler, when the contract was made,
provided he was not interested in the goods, and General principle as to illehad no previous concern in their importation.
gality of conQuestions upbn illegal contracts have arisen tracts, and
distinctions by
very often, both in England and in this country ; which
mtd. it is liand no principle is better settled, than that no miThe
authothis
rities on
action can be maintained on a contract, the con- subject reideration of which is either wicked in itself, or viewed.

CASES lI ° THE SUPREMlE COURT

1826.
Armstrong
Amo
Tler.

prohibited by law. How far this principle is to
subsequent or collateral contracts, the di-

Saffect

rect and immediate consideration of
which is

not immoral or illegal, is a question of conside-

rable intricacy, on which many controversies have
arisen, and many decisions have been made. In
Faikney v. Reynous, (4 Burr. 2069.) the plaintiff and one Richardson were jointly concerned
in certain contracts prohibited by law, on which a
loss was sustained, the whole of which was paid
by the plaintiffs ; and a bond was given for securing the repayment of Richardson's proportion of the loss. To a suit on this bond, the defendants pleaded the statute prohibiting the
original transaction, but the Court held, on demurrer, that the plaintiff was entitled to recover.
Although this was the case of a bond, the judgment does not appear to have turned on that
circumstance. Lord Mansfield gave his opinion
on the general ground, that if one person apply
to another to pay his debt, (whether contracted
on the score of usury, or for any other purpose,)
he is entitled to recover it back again. This is
a strong case to show that a subsequent contract,
not stipulating a prohibited act, although for
money advanced in satisfaction of an unlawful
transaction, may be sustained in a Court of justice. In a subsequent case, (6 Term Rep. 410.)
Ashhurst, J. said, the defendants were held liable
because they had voluntarily given another security.
In the case of Petrie and Another, Executors
of KIeeble, v. Hannay, (3 Term Rep. 4181) the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

273

testator of the plaintiffs was engaged with the 1826.
defendant and others in stock transactions, which
were forbidden by law, on which considerable
v.
losses had been sustained, which were paid by Toler.
Portis, their broker. Keeble repaid the broker
the whole sum advanced by him except 84
pounds, which was, in'part, the defendant's share
of the loss, for which Keeble drew a bill on the
defendant, which was accepted. The bill not
being paid, a suit was brought upon it by P6rtis
against the executors of Keeble, and judgment
obtained, they not setting up the illegal consideration. The executors brought this action to recover the money they had paid, and it was held,
by three Judges against one, on the authority of
Faikney v. Reynous, that the plaintiffs could
maintain their action. A distinction was taken
in cases where money was paid by one person
for another, on an illegal transaction, by which
the parties were not bound; between a voluntary
payment, and one made on the request of the
party; between an assumpsit raised by operation of law, and an express assumpsit. Although
the former would not support the action, it was
held that the latter would.
This, also, is a strong case to show that a new
contract, by which money is advanced at the request of another, or, which is the same thing,
where there is an express promise to pay, may
sustain an action, although the money was advanced to satisfy an illegal claim.
In Farmer v. Russell et al. (1 Bos. & Pull.
VOL. XI.

35

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

274

1826.
Armstrong

v.

Toler.

295.) it was held, that if A. is indebted to B. oin
a contract forbidden by law, and pays the money
to C. for the use of B., a Court will give judgment in favour of B. against C. for this money.
In this case, B. could not have recovered against
A., but when the money came into the hands of
C., a new promise was raised on 'a new consideration, which was not infected by the vice of the
original contract. In this case, Chief Justice
Eyre said, that the plaintiff's demand arose simply from the circumstance, that money was put
into the hands of C. for his use; and Justice
Buller said, that the action did not arise upon the
ground of the illegal contract. Yet, in this case,
A.'s original title to the money was founded on an
unlawful contract, and he could not have maintained an action against B.
The general proposition stated by Lord Mansfield in Faikney v. Reynous, that if one person
pay the debt of another at his request, an action
may be sustained to recover the money, although
the original 'contract was unlawful, goes far in
deciding the question now before the Court.
That the person who paid the money knew it
was paid in discharge of a debt not recoverable
at law, has never been held to alter the case. A
subsequent 'express promise is, undoubtedly,
equivalent to a previous request.
In most of the cases cited by the counsel for
the plaintiff in error, the suit has been brought
by a party to the original transaction, or on a
contract so connected with it, as to be inseparable from it. As, where a vendor in a foreign

OF THE UNITED STATES.

275

tcountry packs up goods for the purpose of ena- 1826.
bling the vendee to smuggle them; or where a Armstrong
v.
suit is brought on a policy of insurance on an illegal voyage ; or on a contract which amounts to Toler.
maintenance ; or on one for the sale of a lottery
ticket, where such sale is prohibited; or on a bill
which is payable in notes issued contrary to law:
In these, and in all similar cases, the consideration of the very contract on which the suit. is
brought is vicious, and the plaintiff has contributed to, the illegal transaction. One of the
strongest cases in the books is Steers v. Laishley, (6 Term Rep. 61.) where the broker, who had
been concerned in stock jobbing transactions,
and had paid the losses, drew a bill of exchange
for the amount on the defendant, and, after its
acceptance, endorsed it to a person who knew of
the illegal transaction on which it was drawn, the
Court held, that such endorsee could not recover
on the bill.
In this case, the broker himselfcould not recover,
being a party in the original offence against the
law, and hit bill being drawn for the very money
which was due on the original transaction, and
endorsed to a person having notice, left the endorsee in the same situation with the drawer.
Yet, Lord Kenyon said, in this case, that if the
plaintiff had lent the money t6 the defendant to
pay the differences, and had afterwards received
the bill for the money so lent, he might have -recovered on it. The difference between the case
decided, and that put by the Judge, is not very
discernible, as the one or the other may. affect

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

morals, or the policy of the law.

The distinc-

1-0tion would seem to be founded on this legal
Armstrong
V.
ground, that the money lent would constitute a
Toler.

new consideration, and be the foundation of a
new contract, which could not be vitiated by a
knowledge of the purpose for which the money
was lent, and the bill drawn.

So Toler's know-

ledge of the illegal transactions of Armstrong,
and that his money was advanced to procure the
delivery of goods which had been illegally imported, could not vitiate a contract to repay that
money.
In *the case of Booth v. Hodgson, (6 Term
Rep. 405.) the suit was between the original
parties to the illegal transaction, and was bottomed on it.
Supposing the opinions actually contained in
the 6harge to be correct, it is still contended to
be liable to exception, because there is a material part of the very case which it does not embrace. The charge, it is said, does not state
what the law would be, if Toler knew, previous
to the consignment, that Armstrong was engaged in this illicit commerce.
Without entering into the inquiry whether
this criticism on the charge be well or ill founded,
the Court think it proper to declare, in explicit
terms, that the plaintiff in error cannot avail
himself
of it in this stage
of the cause.
brn
eLonoeeuath
of the practice
To bring all the testimonyoffered at the trial
of bringi: the of a cause at common law, instead of fqcts, into
Jnconvenience

whole

io
orb
fecpino
Court, by a bill of exceptions, or otherwise,
a practice which, to say the least, is extremely

eni-lafct

deuice, instead ti

of thefacts,forlh"
review
before iis
tieCoure

OF THE UNITED STATES.

27 7

inconvenient. Its tendency is to convert this 1826.
Court from a tribunal for the decision of points Armstrong
V.
of law, into one for the investigation of facts,
Toler.
that
into
look
To
evidence.
and for weighing
Z
The party
by
testimony for the purpose of inquiring whether cannot,
such a practhe Judge has omitted any thing material in his tice, take advantage of any
omissioninthe
charge, would be to yield to this practice, and toiJudge's
charge
funderexception
a gensanction it in its most exceptionable form. ofral
the defendant's counsel wished the instruction to it. If he
wishes the inthe Judge to the jury, on any point which was
struction
of
lourt to
S Sthe
omitted in the charge, his course was to sugges tthe jury oi
the point, and request an opinion on it. If any point ohe
counsel may, without pursuing this course, spread charge,
must suggest
request
and
byit,
then,
and
the whdle testimony on the record,
"the Judges ca general exception to the charge, enable him- pinion on it.
self to take advantage, not only of a misdirection, but of any omission to notice any question
which may be supposed, by this Court, to have
arisen in the case, such a course would obviously
transfer to the.Supreme Court the appropriate
duties of a Circuit Court, and cannot be countenanced.
It is also contended by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error, that the Judge has erred in
not answering fully the inquiry made by the jury.
That was in these words: " The jur -beg leave
to ask the Judges whether Toler must have
an interest in Armstrong's goods to constitute
him a ,participator in the voyag'e ? If simply
having goods on board will constitute him such ?"
The Court ans-vered as follows: "The plaintiff,
simply having goods on board, would not constitute him a participator, or affect the contract

278
1826.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

:with the defendant. Being interested in the
goods would."
Armstrong
V.
There is much reason to believe, that the first
Toler.
of these questions was not understood by the
jury, or by the Judge, according to the literal
import of the words. The inquiry would seem
to be, whether, under any possible view of the
transaction, Toler could be tainted with the guilt
of Armstrong, so as to affect the contract in
suit, unless he had an interest in the goods. This
was probably not the intention of the jury, because an answer to this question is to be found
in the charge. The Judge. had stated, that if
Toler was the contriver of, or concerned in, a
scheme to introduce these goods int-o the United
States, or had consented to become the consignee with a view to their introduction, these
circumstances would vitiate the contract. He
had already said, therefore, that an interest in
Armstrong's goods was not indispensably necessary to make Toler a participator in the vqyage,
as to. all the purposes of the defence. He had
stated two cases specially, either of which the
jury might consider as proved by the evidence,
in which the consideration would be unlawfIl; and
he had said generally, "that where the contract
.grows immediately out of, and is connected with,
an illegal or immoral act, a Court of justice will
not lend its aid to enforce it. And if the contract be, in fact, only connected with the illegal
transaction, and growing immediately out of it,
though it be in fact a new contract, it is equally
tainted by it." There is much reason to believe

'

279

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that the jury could not have intended to put a

1826.

question Which had been already answered, and

Armstrong

that they might design to ask, whether, having
goods on board belonging to himself, would
place him in the same situftion as if interested
with Armstrong. The answer of the Court
would show, that the questions were understood
in this sense, and that answer appears to have
been satisfactory to the jury.
However this may be, we think the law was
correctly stated by the Court; and we cannot
admit, that a judgment is to be reversed because
an answer does not go to the full extent of-the
question. Had the jury desired further information, they might, and' probably would, have signified their desire to the Court. The utmost willingness was manifested to gratify them, and it
may fairly be presumed that they had nothing
farther to ask.
We think that there is no error in the judgment of. the Circuit Court, and that it ought to be
affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of
six per centum per annum.

v.
Toler.

