CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

280

1826.
Chirac
V.

Reinicker.
[EJECTMIENT.
CHIRAC

EVIDENCE.

PJRA CTICE.]

and Others against REINICKER.

A counsel or attbrney is not a competent witness to testify as t:
facts communicated to either by his client, in the course of the relation subsisting between them, but may be examined as to the
mere fact of the existence of that relation.
The action for mesne profits may be maintained against hir vho
was the landlord in fact, who received the Tents and profits, and
resisted the recovery in the ejectment suit, although he was not a
party to that s'uit, and did not take upon himself the defence
thereof upon the record, but another did as landlord.
A recovery in ejectment is conclusive evidence in an action for
mesne profits against the tenant in possession, but not in relation
to third persons. But where thre action is brought against the
landlord in fact, the record, in the ejectment suit, is admissible to
show the possession of the plaintiff connected with his title, although it is not conclusive upon the defendant in tire same manner as if he had been a party on til record.
Amendments to the pleadings are matters in the discretion of the
Court below. Error will not lie to this Court, on the allowance or
refusal of such amendments..
Variances between the writ and declaration cannot be taken advantage of in the Court below, after plea pleaded.
quare, Whether by the modern practice such variances can be
taken advantage of at all ?

ERROR to the Circuit Court of M'aryland.
This was an action of trespass for mesne profits, brought by the plaintiffs in error, Chirac and
others, against the defendant in error, Reinicker,
in the Court below. The plaintiffs had recovered.judgment, and possession of the premises, in
an ejectmeni, in which one C. J. F. Chirac pray-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

281

ed leave of the Court, as landlord of the pre- 1826.
mises, to be made defendant in the place of the Chirac
v.
casual ejector, and was admitted accordingly
under the common consent rule. At the trial of Reinicker.
the present suit, the record of the proceedings
in the ejectment were offered by the plaintiffs as
evidence to maintain this action ; and- they then
offered to prove, by the testimony of R. G. Harper, and N. Dorsey, esquires, that the defendant
had retained, and paid them, to conduct the defence of the ejectment for his benefit, and also
propounded to these witnesses the following
question : Were you retained, at any time, as attorney or counsel, to conduct the ejectment suit
above mentioned, on the part of the defendcant,
for his benefit, as landlord of those premises?
This question was objected to by the defendant's
counsel, as seeking an improper disclosure of
professional confidence; and was rejected by
the Court. Whereupon the plaintiffs excepted.
The plaintiffs then gave in evidence certain
deeds and patents, by which, and the admissions
of counsel on both sides, the title to the premises
in question was vested in John B. Chirac, deceased ; and also read in evidence certain depositions to prove who wvere the heirs of J B. Chirac ; and also offered the record in the ejectment
to prove Maria Bonfils to be one of the heirs,
and then offered to prove, by pyrol evidence, that
the defendant was, in fact, landlord of the premises at the commenenent, and during.the progress of the ejeetment, andl had notice of the
Vor,. XL

S6

282

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Chirac

v.

Remicker.

same, and retained counsel to defend the same,
and received the rents and profits thereof during
its progress; which last mentioned evidence the
Court refused to admit; and the plaintiffs excepted to the refusal.
The plaintiffs then offered kto prove the same
facts, (not saying by parol evidence,) with the
additional fact that counsel did defend the same
action for the benefit of the defendant. This
evidence was also rejected by the Court, and
constituted the third exception of the plaintiffs.
The fourth exception taken by the plaintiffs,
related to the proper parties to the action. The
original plaintiffs in the suit were Anthony Taurin Chirac, Mathew Chapus, and Anna Maria his
wife, Mathew Thevenon and Maria his wife, and
Maria Bonfils, the same persons having been
plaintiffs in the ejectment. Pending the suit,
the plaintiffs obtained" leave to amend their declaration, and amended it, by introducing the
name of John B. E. Bitarde Desportes, as husband of the said Maria, called, at the commencement of this suit, Maria Bonfils. No objection
was taken to this amendment, and the defendant
pleaded the general issue to the declaration so
amended. The evidence of title of John B.
Chirac, deceased, having been introduced, and,
also, evidence to prove that Anthony T. Chirac,
and the female plaintiffs, vere heirs at law of
John B. Chirac, the defendant prayed the Court
to instruct the jury, that they ought to find a verdict for the defendant, unless they were satisfied
that all the plaintiffs were the proper heirs at law

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of John B. Chirac; which direction the Court
accordingly gave.
The fifth exception related to the supposed
variance between the writ and declaration, by the
amendment, introducing the husband of Maria
Bonfils as a party upon the record. The Court
held the variance fatal under the general issue.

283

1826.
v.
Reinicker.

Mr. D. Hoffman, and Mr. Mlayer, for the Feb. 11h.
plaintiffs in error, argued, 1. That the rule as
to professional secresy forbids disclosures by
the counsel of matters communicated by the client, after the engagement of counsel, and relating to the merits, or grounds of prosecution
or defence of the suit. But that the mere fact
of the engagement of counsel was out of the
iule, because the privilege and duty of being silent, does not arise until that fact be ascertained. The concealment of the real client,
who may be the party essentially interested, n.z y
be part of the client's policy, and be within- thet
client's instructions to his counsel. But the clieat's injunction of secresy, per se, would not
make secresy lawful in this respect; and it is,
therefore, a petitio principii to say, that the
counsel shall not tell who really employed him,
merely because it happened to be the direction
of his client, and his client's view; to conceal the
fact. The law would authorize a fraud on its
own rules, if it would determine otherwise; and
the pretension of the defendant is counter to the
whole policy of the rule, as to professional se-

284

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

cresy."

The very refusal to answer, implies the

\'irChirace affirmation of the witnesses being employed by

v.

Reinieker.

the defendant as counsel.
2. The defendant was liable, in this action, if
he had notice of the ejectment, and was, as landlord, interested in the result of it. He might,
even at common law, have been made defendant;
but the statute of 11 Geo. 11., in f6rce in Maryland, explicitly allows it to him. He shall not
screen himself from responsibility, because he
had artifice enough to waive appearing, and to
let an uninterested person figure as defendant
in his stead. The lessor of the plaintiff may
sue for mesne profits, and the actual tenant shall
be liable, although the judgment in ejectm.ent is
obtained against the casual ejector only; and in
reference as well to the defendant as to the
plaintiff in such a suit, the Court disregards the
fiction of the ejectment cause. He is answerable for the mesne profits who has received
them, and has had an opportunity of defending
his pretensions in the preliminary ejectment.
The ejectment suit is founded on a fiction. Fictions are under the control of the'Courts who
use them. They will be moulded and applied to
the views of justice, and according to reasonfor they take their rise .from the equity of the
law: Infictione juris subsistit equitas. The aua 7 East. Rep. -357. in note. 4 East. Re p 759. 4 Espi.
N.P.C.23. 2 Esp. N. P. C. Bull. N. P. 284. 4 T. R. 432.
752. 17 Johns. Rep. s,35. 18 Johns. Rep. 3so. Morris's Peake,
250, 251, 252. 3 Johns. Cas. 198. - 13 Johns. Rep. 492.

OF TIHL

UNITED STATES.

285

tilorities sustain all these positions.a Before the 1826.
statute of I1 Geo. II., regulating the appearance
v.
of landlords as defendants in lieu of the casual
Reinicker.
habitually
was
ejectment
in
ejector, a judgment
set aside, where, upon the complaint of the landlord, it appeared, that he hdhad no notice of the
suit. Where a party sells a chattel with warranty
of title, notice to the vendor, of a suit against
the vendee for it, is sufficient to bind the vendor by the verdict or judgment in that suit. One
obtaiiiing possession of land, while an action of
ejectment is pending, is answerable for the mesne
profits during his occupation, whether proved tohave had notice of the action or not; constructive
notice then sometimes implicates a third party in
this suit. All these rules are calculated to prevent an evasion of the statute, allowing landlords,
not in actual possession, to be actors in the ejectment suit, and to keep the fictions of law to their
original purposes of justice. Our claim is clear
of the point of Lifford's case, in 11 Co. 51.:
though according to the decisions in Massachusetts, 4,e might rest this suit even upon that
point: Before the statute of Marlbridge, 5"
lien. IMl., damages was not recoverable in any
a I Burr. 67. Running-t. Eject. 192, 193. 198. 200, 201.
Adams' Eject. 328. 337. 2 Join3. Gas. 438. 3 Camp. 455. in
point, and inaccurately stated in Adams on Eject.; the ndtice of
the suit to the landlord not being required, as Adams states, to be
by service of the declaration in ejectment. 2 Burr. 1299. 7 T. R.
103.
b 1 Johns. Rep. 447. i Harrisand Jo.ins. Maryland Rep.
c Stearnes on Re;l 4elionzs, 416,

'286

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Chra
Chirac

real action, except against the disseisor himself;
and then only in the assize of novel disseisin.

.

Hence the practice for the disseisor (similar

Reinicker.

in principle to the attempt of this defendant) to
enfeoff'persons to act as defendants, who were not
responsible. To prevent this abuse, the statute was passed, making all pernors of the profits responsible in real actions for damages.a
But the action of ejectment, being a personal action, in its origin, there -was no need
of a statutable provision to authorize an
award of damages in it. It has taken the place
Reibf the real actions of common law.
nicker, claimant of the fee, must be regarded
as ii possession; and his tenant's possession was
his.
It is true, that Chirac appeared as landlord in the
ejectment cause. But our purpose is; to show that
Reinicker appeared by another; and though that
other also assumed his (Reinicker's) title, that circumstance serves only to aggravate the fraud at-tempted upon the law, and to show the more conclusively, that Reinicker waived his privilege of
defending in his own name, and by candidly announcing his interest on the record. We are
not estopped, then, by C. J. F. Chirac's usurpation
of the title of landlord, as well as the part bf a
defendant. If this action were even against-tim,
we should be compelled to prove him landlord,
notwithstanding his pretension to the character
by appearing as landlord. His appearing might
be relied on to prove his being landlord, but only
a Stearne's RealAct. 390.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

287

as a circumstance, and as evidence, and not as 1826.
an estoppel. We admit, that a party, to be Ilia- Chirac
ble for mesne profits, must be a trespasser ; and
V.
we meant to prove Reinicker, by privity, to be a Reinicker.
trespasser. The case in 7 Term Rep. 108.
shows, that if the husband there had had notice
of the ejdatment, he would have been answerable for the mesne profits.
3. The action for mesne profits being the mere
sequel of the recovery in the ejectment~cause,
the record of that recovery is the proper evidence
to show the lessors of the plaintiff entitled to
the mesne profits so as they are claimeddwithin the
terms of the demise in the ejectment. If profits antecedent to the term are asked, then the
plaintiffs cannot rely on the ejectment recovery as
conclusive~evidence, but must prove their title to
the land anew, and again open the merits of the
ejectment cause. The claim for mesne profits
here keeps within the limits of the ejectment
demise, and we had no occasion, therefore, to
prove our title otherwise than by the record of
recovery in the ejectment.a Although the husband, who did not appear as a lessor of the plaintiff, is joined in this action with his wife, who was
a lessor, still the record of the ejectment is evidence for us, since the husband is no new party
in interest. If necessary, this might be enforced
by analogy from the writ of re-disseisin in the
a Runningi. Eject. 492 to 497. SLinn.,247. Salk. Rep. 260.
Bull. N. P. 87. 1 Burr.Rep 665. Strange's Rep. 960. Cowp.
Rep. 243. Dougl. Rep. 584. Adams' Eject. 329. 333, 334.

288

1826.
Chirac
Y.

Reinicker.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

case of a similar change of parties. The addition of the husband, at the utmost, only imposed
on us the duty of proving the marriage.
4. A variance between the writ and declaration could only have been taken advantage of
upon oyer of the writ, and plea in abatement."
Oyer will not now be granted, and such a plea

cannot, therefore, obtain. Nor will the proceedings be set aside for irregularity, on account of'
such avariance.
Even supposing, that for this
defect the party might have refused to plead, or
otherwise have made the objection available, it
is too late now since he has pleaded the general
issue.: A variance of this kind could once have
been taken advantage of in England up6n writ
of error ; but that cannot now, since the statute
of jeofails, be done there; nor in Maryland,
since her act of 1809, ch. 153. Where the writ
is, according to the ancient practice, fully recited
in the declaration, advantage might be had of
the variance on demurrer. But that is not the
case here.' The recital of the writ in the declaration is unnecessary; and, when made, as in
this instance, is to be rejected as surplusage.
a Stephens on Plead.69.
:395.

Chitt. Plead. 4,9. 2 Mils.Rep. 85.

2 Salk. Rep. 658.

b 1 Boso and Pul. 645. 6 2.R.364.

Com. Dig. Abatement,

G. 8. Bac. Abr. Abatement, H. 1.
c I Bos. and Pul. 383. (a decision founded on the statute, allowing a plaintiff; in certain cases, to enter an appearance for a
defendant, and proceed to jpdgment.)
d 1 Saund. 318. in notd.

e 1 Saund. 318. Keb. 544, 2 LordRayi. 908. 1 Stranzc':
Rep. temp. Ilardw. 184. 189. J H. Bl. 250.

Rep. 225.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

289

The body of the amended declaration here, 1826.
speaks of " the plaintiffs," not of the persons '',
Cbirac
mentioned or named in the recital. Besides,
v.
even the recital does not say that Maria Desportes Reinicker.
was sued by the name of Maria Bonfils, but only
mentions the circumstance of her "being called"
so at the bringing of the suit, as it would insert
an alias for her name.
The variance occurs in an amended declaration, filed after leave had to amend. The statute
of Maryland of 1809, ch. 153. authorises any
amendment to be made " to bring the merits of
a suit to issue." This amendment was justified
by that act of the legislature; and the Court
might have made the writ to conform to the alteration, as in England an original writ is made to
suit the declaration. The writ, in Maryland, is
sometimes altered from debt to case, to suit the
narr. The husband, here, was joined to the wife
only for conformity, and not'by reason of a new
interest, or as interested; since the suit; if no
objection had been made before general issue,
might have proceeded in the single name of the
wife. One suing by guardian in the first instance, and aftdrwards becoming of age during
the suit, may, and must, appear then by attorney.
If the variance could have been, and had been,
pleaded in abatement, the Court would, under the
statute of Maryland, have allowed the' declaration to be amended and cleared of the variance.
This declaration may be assimilated to a declaration by the bye, by the husband and wife, though
VOL. XI.

37

290

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
""'
Chirac
R

.

the writ is sued out in the single name of the
husband." Though a misnomer may be pleaded
England, the narr. and writ
evenininthat
in abatement,
may
be rectified
particular upon terms.
A party naming himself generally in a writ, may,
nevertheless, declare in a specialcharacter." The
variance between the amended declaration and
the first declaration, does not show that the former varies from the writ. The amended declaration is as go9d evidence of the contents of the
writ as the original declaration is.
Mr. D. B. Ogdenz and Mr. Webster, for the
defendant in error, (1.) stated, that it was necessary to advert to the specific question which
was put as to the defendant's retaining counsel,
and to the circumstances under which it was
asked. The question involved the disclosure of
the party's views, and of his instructions to his
counsel, and of communications which were received by him in his -capacity of counsel, and that
would not have been made to him if he had not
been so. It is not necessary that a suit should
be pendidg to bind the counsel to secrecy for his
client; any communication, after retainer of
counsel, is witulin the rule against disclosure, if it
relates to the suit, and is within the scope of the
confidence given-to the counsel.
2. No person, can be made liable for the mesne
profits after recovery in ejectment, who has not
a Chitty's Plead.252.
h1 IWils. Rep. 141. 3 lVils. Rep. 61.

2 BI. Pep. 722.

0O-' THE UNITED STATLS.

I,-9(1

been a trespasser. The ejectment suit complains 1826.
of a trespass, and the person to be charged for
V.
the mesne profits must, therefore, have been
Reinicker.
appeared
having
by
suit
that.
to
party
a
actually
as defendant, or by having been required to appear by service of process in the suit, and then
failing to appear. It is only by this judicialnotice, and a waiver of the privilege of appearing,
testified by the record of ile suit in ejectment,
that the defendant in the action for mesne profits
can be treated as if he had been a defendant in
the ejectment, and adjudged a trespasser, to bear
the liability for mesne profits. By mere waiver
in pais, or notice extraneous to the record, a
party cannot be rendered liable for mesne profiti, although, in fact, he may have been interested in the result of the ejectment suit. That-interest, however, quoad the ejectment, and in reference to tne suit for mesne profits, does not
prove him to be a trespasser, which he must be
before he can be liable to the claim.a The Court
must lo'ik to the record of the ejeciment for
light as to the responsible parties on the score of
mesne profits; they cannot derive it from other
quarters, or collateral proof. Hence, too, the
record of the ejectment is not evidence of the
right of the lessors of the plaintiff to the mesne
profits, .as against one who was not actually a
party in the ejectment suit, nor effectively so by
being called on through notice in the process of
ejectment to appear as defendant. Here, how:
at I Sebvyn's N. P. 12 1.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

2192~

1826.

ever, another person than the defendant, Rei-

a
Chirac

nicker, was admitted in the ejectment suit to de-

V.

fend as the landlord of the property in question.
Ie declared himself the landlord in claiming to

Reinicker.

defend as such ; and the plaintiffs in ejeetment,

not denying his pretension in that respect, have
acceded to his representation of himself, and
must now be bound by it, and are estopped from
saying that any other person was landlord. Reinicker, therefore, can in no wise be connected
with the ejectment suit; and, at all events, the
recovery there is not conclusive against him, that
the lessors of the plaintiff are the proper claimants of the mesne profits. They must prove themselves the heirs entitled to the land, and to the
mesne profits, as the result of that proof. The
case from 3 Campb. Rep. 455. does not establish
the plaintiffs' positions on these heads. The
decision there was on another point; and the
reasoning of it shows, that the party liable fbr
the niesne profits must be a trespasser. The
action for mesne profits will lie only where trespass quare clau.sum fregit would lie. According to that principle, Reinicker could not, by
mere force of notice in pais of the suit, be held
liable for the mesne profits.
3 The case as to the amended declaration is
clear of all the learning respecting the mode of
taking advantage of a variance between the declaration and the writ. The variance there
meant, is not such a departure from the writ as
in this case, as it effects an entire change of
suit, and substitutes, in reality, a new suit, for

OF TilE UNITED STATES.

293

that which the writ and first declaration defined. There is no declaration here in the suit

1826.

which was originally brought; or, at least, that

V.

Chirac

which was a declaration has not been acted on;
but the issue is taken, and.the jury sworn, between new parties, and out of the suit which the
record professes to carry on. The Court may,
therefore, take notice of the change of parties,
and of claim, and of suit, in this case; since
they cannot fail to see between what parties they
are adjudicating ; and it is not necessary that the
inconsistency be brought to their knowledge by a

plea in abatement exclusively. It does not appear that Maria BonfilN was unmarried at the
time of bringing the suit.
Mr. Justice
the Court.

STORY

del:,ered the opinion of Feb.oth.

This is an acion of trespass for mesne pro-

fits, brought by the plaintiffs in error against the
defendant in error, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Maryland. The cause comes before
this Court upon exceptions taken by the plaintiffs on the trial of the cause in the Court below.
The plaintiffs had recovered judgment- and Fi.stexceppossession of the premises, in an e.*itment, in
which J. C. F. Chira6 prayed to bb admitted as
landlord to defend the premises, and was admitted accordingly under the common consent rule.
The record, of the proceedings in that action
were offered by the plaintiffs as evidence in the
present suit; and they then offered to prove, by
the testimony of R. G. Harper, and W. Dorsey,

2394

CASES IN 'ritE 6UPIEME COUIT

1826.
a

Reinicker.

esquires, that the defendant had retained, and
paid them, to conduct the defence of the eject-

ment for his benefit, and also propounded to
these witnesses the following question: Were

you retained, at any time, as attorney or counsellor, to conduct the ejectment suit above mentioned, on the part of the defendant, for the benefit of the said George Rcinickcr, as landlord
of those premises. This question was objected
to as seeking an improper disclosure of professional confidence. The Court sustained the objection ; and this constitutes the first ground of
I
exception.
,Rule -asto at- The general rule is not disputed, that confitorneyocounsel
giving testimony
re- dential communications between client and atThe
specting facts torney, ore not to be revealed at anytime.
.
communicated
to them by privilege, indeed, is not that of the attorney, but
their

applied

case.

client, o
to this Of

h

i

af

t

the chent; and it is idipensable foi the pur-

poses of private justice. Whatever facts, therefore, are communicated by a client to counsel,
solely on account of that relation, such counsel
are not at liberty, even if they wish, to disclose
and the law holds their testimony incompetent.
The real dispute in this case is; whether the
question did involve the disclosure of professional confidence. If the question had stopped at
the inquiry whether the witnesses were employed
by Reinicker, as counsel, to conduct the ejectment suit, it would deserve consideration, whether it could be universally affirmed, that it involved any breach of professional confidence.
The fact is preliminary in its own nature, and
establishes only the existence of ihe relation of

295&

OF THE UNITED STATES.

client and counsel, and, therefore, might not ne;P iv ;nvolve the disclosure of any communiavon trising from that relation after it was cre4ttiu.

But the question goes farther. .It asks,

1826.
C

V.
Rejicker.

not only whether the witnesses were employed,
but whether they were employed by Reinicker to
conduct the ejectaient for him, as landlordof the
premises. We are all of opinion, that theques-

tion, in this form, does involve a disclosure of
confidential communications. , t seeks a disclosure of the title and claim set up by Reinicker to
his counsel,,for the purpose of conducting the
defence of the suit, It cannot be pretended
that counsel could be asked what were the communications made by Reinicker as to the nature,
extent, or grounds of his title,; and yet, in effect,
the question, in the form in which it is put, necessarily involves such a disclosure. The Circuit Court was, therefore, right in their decision
on this point.

Second excep
The plaintiffs then gave in evidence certain
•,tiofn.

deeds and patents, by which, and the admissions.
of counsel on' both sides, the title to the premises in question was vested in John B. Chirac,
deceased; and also gave in'egidence, certain depositions to prove who were the heirs of J. B.
Chirac, and also offered the record in the eject-.
ment to prove Maria 'Bonfils to be one of the
heirs; and then offered to prove, by parol evidence, that the defendant was, in fact, landlord
of the premises at the commencement and during the progress of the ejectment, and hadnotice of the same, and employed counsel to de-

"

296

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

fend the same ; and received the rents and profits thereof, during the progress of the ejeetment;
which evidence the Court refused to admit: and

Chirac

v.

Reirmker. this constitutes the second exception of
the

plaintiffs.
Third ceep-.th

tion.

Question

The plaintiffs then offered to prove

same facts, (not saying by parol evidence,)
with the additional fact, that counsel did defend
the same action for the benefit of the defendant.
This evidence was also rejected by the Court,
and-constitutes the third exception of the plaintiffs.
inThe question of law, involved in each of. these

vrolved in the

2d and 3d exceptions.

exceptions, is substantially the same.

It is,

whether a person, who was not a party to the

ejeotment, and did not take upon himself, upon
the record, the defence thereof, but another did
as landlord, may yet be liable in' an action for
the mesne profits, upon its being proved that he
was, in fact, the landlord, received the'rents and
profits, and resisted the recovery.
It is undoubtedly true, that in general, a recoRecovery in
ejectmentcon- very in ejectment, like other judgments, binds
iagainst
eltie
teusiantin only parties and privies. It is conclusive evidence
possession, not.
against third in an action for mesne profits against the tenant
iersons
not
parties to ho in possession, when he has been duly served
ecord.
with a notice in ejectment, whether he appears,
and takes upom himself the defence, or suffers
judgment to go by default against the casual'
ejector. The, reason is, that in the first case, lie
is the real party on the record'; in the last, he is
considered as substant.iflly the defendant. and
the judgment'by default, as a confessibn of the
title pet up in the ejectment. Such was the de-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cision of the Court in Aislinv. Parkin,in 1 Burr. 1826.
667. But in relation to third persons, the judg- Chirac
V.
ment in ejectment is not conclusive; and if they
Reinicker.
is
which
profits,
mesne
for
action
an
in
are sued
substantially an action against them as trespass- But inan ae.esn
ers, they may controvert the plaintiff's title at iot" for
large. In such a suit, the record of the eject- third agonst
e
to
the
action,
plaintiff's
the
establish
to
eviddnce
ment is not
the record of
title; but it seems admissible
for another. pur- inthe therecovery
eject".
.
pose, that is to say, to show the possession Ofment, and an
executed writ
the plaintiff. The plaintiff may certainly prove ofnderpossssio
it, are
his possession connected with his title, by any e,'idence to
sufficient evidence in pais; and if his possession
r
e postov
posessonplaintiff's
has been under a judgment of law, he is entitled 55nectcdwith
to establish it by introducing the record of the his title.
recovery, and an executed, writ of possession
under it.
for
Al, action
The question then is, generally, whether it is lnesne
profits
competent for the plaintiff to maintain an action .aybe mainagainst
for mesne profits against any person who is in tainled
the landlord in
fact, who is in
possession'of the land by means of his tenants, possession of
by
and who, by his acts, commands, or co-operation, the
meansland,
of Ills
• tenanlts, and
aids in the expulsion of the plaintiff, and in withl hisacts,
W by
commands,
or
holding possession from him. All persons who Cn-opration,
aid in, or command, or procure a trespass, are iholdin
wi-the
posse the
iior
themselves deemed in law tb be trespassers,
t] .epassl sfrom
plainwhether they are actually present, or do the acttif.
through the instrumentality of their agents and
servants. A recovery of the possession, in an
ejectment a.gainst one of such agents, does not
constitute a bar to an action for mesne profits
against another agent, for the same reason, that
VOL. XI.

38

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

the former suit is no bar to the latter against the

'-' Chirac
j

defendant in ejectment, viz. that the mesne prov.
fits were not a matter-in controversy in the ejectReinicker. ment. If, then, it is competent to maintain
the
action for mesne profits against any trespasser,
although not a defendant in ejectmbnt it is competent to prove that the defendant is in that predicament. -The evidence offered, inthis case,
was strong to prove the fact, that the defendant
was-a party to the trespass, supposing the plaintiffs to have established their title and possession.
If he was landlord of the premises, and the
other parties were in possession *nder him ; if
he was in the perception of the rents and'profits, if he resisted the plaintiff's title and possession, and co-operated in the acts of the tenants
for this purpose, the evidenoe was proper for the
jury as proof of his being'a cotrespasser.
This doctrine is supported by the case of
Hunter v. Britts, (3 Campb. N. P. Pep. 455.)
which was cited at the bar. There, the judgment was against the casual ejector in the ejectment suit, and the action for the mesne profits
was brought against Britts as landlord ; and he
was proved to be in the receipt of the' rents and
profits from the time, of the demise till the, writ
of possession was executed. The ejectment
was served upon the tenant;' there was no evidence that Britts had any notice of this till after
.judgment; but, subsequently, he promised to
pay the .rent, and the costs, to the plaintiff. It
was objected, that tho judgment in ejectment
was not. under tfese circumstances. evidence of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

299

title against Britts ; and Lord Ellenborough held,

1826.

that it was not, without notice of the ejectment.

Chirac

But he thought that his subsequent promise
amounted to an admission that the plaintiff was
entitled to the possession of the premises, and
that he himself was a trespasser. The language
of the learned Judge seems, indeed, to import,
that if the landlord had had notice of the ejectment, he would have been concluded by the recovery in the ejectment. It might be so, if the
common notice had been formally given to him
as tenant in possession, and he had neglected to
take upon himself the defence of the suit. If,
however, the notice was in pais, and conduced
merely to prove his actual knowledge of the suit,
without calling upon him to defend it, we are not
prepared to admit, that, on general principles, it
ought to have such an effect.a

V.

Reinicker.

But the point ac-

tually decided was, that a party might be charged,
in an action for niesne profits, who was not, in
any sense, a party to the ejectment, by establishing the title against him, and showing his connexion as landlord with the tenant in possession,
and his adoption of the acts of the latter.
Plainliffs not
But it is said, that assuming the law to-*•Ibe.- so
f, estopped
by
i
case, Lhe plaitis
in general, yet, in the present
~th theti r"tord
ectiewit
•
are estopped from setting up the fact that the s, from setuP the
the ti'1 that
tihe
defendant was the real landlord, because, in Pfact
was
ejectment, one J. C. F. Chirac prayed leave of defendant
the real landlord.
be
to
premises,
the Court, " as landlord of the
made defendant" in the place of the casual ejector, which was, with .the consent of the lessee of
a Adams on Ejectment. p. 36. 2d ed.

$000

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

the plaintiffs, allowed by the Court. It does not
ChiracSappear to us, tlat any such estoppel arises from
this allegation in- the record. The record itself
Reinicker. certainly does not constitute a technical estoppel,
for it is res inter alios acta. The most that can
be said is, that it is proper evidence to prove who
the plaintiffs at that time deemed to be landlord,
and, therefore, admissile to rebut the presumption that the present defendant was the landlord.
But, certainly, the evidence was not conclusive
upon either party. It was open to the plaintiffs
to show, that, in point of fact, the present defendant was the real landlord,.that the admission
inthe record was founded in mistake of the facts,
or that J. C. F. Chirac was a sub-landlord under
Reinicker, or his superior landlord. What would
have been the effect of such proof is not for this
Court to determine. We think, then, that the
evidence offered by the plaintiffs was admissible
upon general principles; and we see no estoppel
which excludes it in this particular case. The
directions of the Circuit. Court were, on .this
point, erroneous.
If it had appeared upon the record, that the
evidence offered by the plaintiffs was solely to
connect the defendant with the ej'ectment,'so that
the recovery would be conclusive upon him in the
same manner as if he had been a party on the
record, and, as such, admitted to defend, and actually defending the suit, the case might have
required a very different consideration.
We
have already intimated an opinion, that notice of
An ejectment suit, or defence of the suit, by a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

301

person not tenant in possession, or defendant on 1826.
record, does not make him a party to the• suit in GChimec
contemplation of law, so as to conclude his
V.
Reiniker.
rights.
In considering the fourth and fifth exceptions, Fourth c-cepit is necessary to advert to the fact, that theti~ "
plaintiffs in this action originally-were Anthony
Taurin Chirac, Mathew Chapus and Anna Maria
his wife, Mathew Thevenon and Maria his wife,
and Maria Bonfils, the same persons having been
plaintiffs inthe ejectment. During the pendency
of the suit the plaintiffs obtained leave to amend
their declaration, and did amend it, by introducing
the name of John B. E. Bitarde Desportds, as
husband of the said Maria, called, at the commencement of this suit, Maria Bonfils. To this
amendment no objection was taken, and the defendant pleaded to the declaration, so amended,
the general issue. The evidence of title of
John B. Chirac, deceased, being introduced,
and, also, evidence to prove that Anthony T.
Chirac and the female plaintiffs were heiks at law
of John B. Chirac, the defendant then prayed the
Court to direct the jury, " that they ought to find
a verdict for the defendant, unless they are satisfied that all the plaintiffs are the proper heirs at
law of the aforesaid John B. Chirac," which direction the Court accordingly gave. The probable intention of the defendant was to pray an instruction to the jury, that unless all those of the
plaintiffs who claimed to be heirs of John B.
Chirac, should establish their title, the suit could
not be maintained. In this view, the opinion of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the Court would be correct, for it is a general
rule that no recovery can be had unless all the
plaintiffs are competent to maintain the s4it. If,
Rik' therefore, the title fails as to one, it is not maintainable in favour of the others. The proof does
not, under such circumstances, meet the case set
up in the declaration. But, framed as this exception actually is, the. direction given by the
Court is, in its terms, erroneous. It was not necessary to prove that all the plaintiffs are the
p roperheirs at law of. J. B. Chirac. The action
was maintainable if the husbands were not the
proper heirs-of J., B. Chirac; for, in right of their
wives, they were proper parties to the suit. The

126,
."~~

fourth exception is, therefore, well taken.
Fifth excep..
tio
n.

'The fifth exception is founded on the supposed

variance between the writ and declaration, by

the amendment, introducing the husband of Maria Bonfils upon the record. The Court held
It is
The grant- this variance fatal under the general issue.
ments is ntobservable, that this amendment was made under
of the, Court, and was not objected
matter
o jete to,
writ of forerror an order
to this Court. on the' record, by the defendant; and that the
general issue was subsequently pleaded. It has
been 1decided, in this Court, that the allowance
or disallowance of amendments is not matter,
a writ of error lies here. Variances
e
the writ for wvhich
tween
and declara-

the writ and declaration, are, in genetaken advan- ral matters proper for pleas in abatement; and
tage of.
if, jin any case, a variance between the writ and
deelaration can be taken advantage of by the
defendant in the Court below, it seems to be an
established rule, that it cannot be done except
tin, how to brbetween

OF THE UNITED STATES.

303

upon oyer of the original writ, granted in some 1826.
proper stage of the cause. 'The existence of Chirac
Rv.
such variance forms no mhtter of controversy
jury are to
upon the general issue, by which the

be governed in forming their verdict. In the
present case, as no objection was taken to the
amendment upon the record, it must be deemed.
to have been waived by the defendant, and therefore, not proper to be insisted upon at the trial."
It does not appear, on the record, whether Ma-on Maraho
pl aint iff s pend
ria Bonfils was married before or pending the ing the suit,
es n t , t
have a material bearing do o effi suit ; and the fact might
self, abate
upon the propriety of granting the amendment, suit.

since, at all events, if pending the suit, it would
not of itself abate the suit; and the objection
could only be made available by a plea in abatement.b
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
that there is error in the directions of the Circuit
Court in the four last exceptions, and contained
in the record, and for this cause the judgment
must be reversed, and a venirefacias de novo
awarded.
a See Cbm. Dig. Abatement G. 8. Com. Dig. Pleader,C. 13.
2 Wils. Rep. 85. 394, 395. I Chitt. P1. 438, 439. Steplhens on
Plead.68. 423. 1 Saund. Rep. 318. note 2. by Williams.

b Cor. Dig. Abatement, H. 42.

tihe

