OF THE UNITED STATES.

common law, which overthrows the doctrine of 1826.
are entitled
Lord Coke, we do not think that we
exception upon
constructive
such
any
to engraft
the text of the statute.
Upon the whole, it is to be certified to the
Circuit Court of Virginia, that the decisions of
that Court, upon the points of law arising at the
trial, were correctly decided.
CEERTIFICATE. This cause came on to be
heard on the certificate of division of-opinionis
of the Judges of the Circuit Court, &c. On
consideration whereof, it is ADJUDGED by the
Court, that it be certified to the said Circuit
Court, that the points of lav ruled by the said
Circuit Court at the trial of the cause, and upon
which the sare Court, upon a motion for a, new
trial, were divided in opinion, were, in all respects, correctly decided by the said Court at the
said trial.

[PRAOTIcE.

The

The Vice Consuls of Spain
and Portugal, Libellants.

ANTELOPE.

Explanation of the former decree of the Court in the same cause,
ante, Vol. X. p. 66.
CERTIFICATE.

A mandate having issued to

the Circuit Court for the District of, Georgia, to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

414

1826. carry into execution the decree of this Court
at the February term, 1825, to deliver certain Africans, in the said decree mentionBakof the
a,.tothethe Spanish consul for Spanish claimants,
U. States. and
Judges of that Court having been divided
Williams ~ pronounced

v.

in opinion respecting the mode of designating
the said klaves so to be delivered, and separating
them from others to be delivered to the United
States, whether the same should be made by lot,
or upon proof on the part of the Spanish claimant, it is ORDERED to be certified to the said Circuit Court of Georgia, that in executing the said
mandate, the Africans to be delivered must be
designated by proof made to the satisfaction of
that Court.

[PRACTICE.]

Plaintiff in _Error,
against
The PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS,. and COMPANY OF
THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES, Defendants
in Error.
WILLIAMS,

Where there is a joint judgment against several defendants, and one
only sues out the writ of error without joining the others, it is irregular; but if the others refiuse to join in it, quare, whether the plaintiff may not have summons and severance ?
3famch

8th.

IN this case, in which Mr. Wright was for the

