361

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1826.
Shelby
', V.

LSTATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.

SHELBY

PLEADING.

LOCAL

and Others, Executors of

LAW.]

Guy.

SHELBY,

Plaintiffs in Error,

against
Guy, Defendant in Error.
The terms " beyond seas," in the saving .clause of a statute of limitations, are to be construed as equivalent to without the limits of
the State wheie the statute is epacted.
Quicre, How far this construction has been adopted by the Courts of
Tennessee ?
Five years bona fide possession of a slave constitftes a title, by the
laws of Virginia, upon which the possessor may recover in detinue;
and this title may be set up by the vendee of. such possessor in the
Courts of Tennessee, as a defence to a suit brought by a third party
in those Courts.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Jones, for the Feb. 8WL.

plaintiffs in error, and by the Attorney General
and Mr. White, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice JOHNSOrs delivered the opinion of March 10tI.
the.Court.
The plaintiffs here, were- defendants in the
Vourt below, in an action of detinue brought by
Thomas Guy, to recover sundry slaves.
The defendants below plead non detinet, and
the act of limitations of the State of Tennessee,
which bars the action of detinue in three years.
The plaintiff joins issue upon the plea of non
detinet, and files a special replication to the plea
VnL. XL

46

362

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. of.the statute, the objdct of which is to bring
'""-'-himself within the saving in favour of absentees.
Shelby
The defendants demurred to this replication,
GV.
-

Uy.

but the demurrer being overruled, the parties

went to trial on the general issue, and a verdict
was rendered for the plaintiff in the form now
usual in the action of detinue.
To revise the judgment of the Court in overruling the demurrer, and its decisions upon various points of law raised in the progress of the
trial, this writ of error is brought.
The case-was this. One Dickerson, a citizen
of Virginia, the father of the plaintiff's mother,
was owner of a female slave named Amy, from
whom te slave claimed had descended. Upon
the marriage of Thomas Terry Guy with the
plaintiff's mother, or soon after, and prior to the
year 1778, the slave Amy pa~sed into the possession of T. T. G., but whether by loan, or parol
gift, is a point litigated, and upon which some of
the principal questions in the cause arise.
From the year 1778 to 1794, the slaves remained in Virginia, in the possession of the
plaintiff's father T. T. G., when he sold her and
her increase to David Shelby, who trereupon removed with the slaves to' Tennessee, where he
and they have ever since resided.
In the year 1788, Dickerson made his will and
died; and the will was proved and'recorded in
'July, 1788. In this will he says, "1 lend to my
son-in-law T. T. G., the negroes which. he now
has in his possession, that I lent him in the lifetime of his wife, during hi§ ,nattiral life, viz.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

363

Cuffee,, Gilbert, and Amy; and at his death 1 1826.
give the aforesaid
slaves, with their increase, to Shelby
tl
Y.
my grandsons John and Thomas Guy, and their
Guy.
heirs, for ever."
Thomas Guy, here named, is the plaintiff in
this action; the executory devise to him and
John, took effect by the death of their father in
1795. John died unmarried, under age, and intestate, after his father, but before the action
brought, and neither of the brothers had been
in the State of Tennessee until within th' ee
years prior to the institution of the suit, but had
resided in the State of Virginia.
Alleged (I(,These are the material facts in the cause. The fecs
the
ill
points argued have been very numerous; but ifiloadings.
the plaintiff has tripped in pleading, by a vicious
replication, the questions on the merits.are put
out of the case. The points arising on the demurrer, therefore, must first be considered.
The replication demurred to, states, in substance, the right of Dickerson to the negro Amy,
and the continuance of that right up to his death ;
the bequest to the father of the plaintiff foi- life,
and to the plaintiff and John after his deith ; the
death of the father, and of John;. the qualifying
of the executors on the will, and their assent to
the legacy; the sale by the father to Shelby in
1794; Shelby's removal with the slaves to Tennessee, and subsequent residence there, and the
residence of John up to his death, and of the
plaintiff, to within three years of the bringing of'
this suit. in the State of Virginia.

364

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Scial,
Shelby

V.

Guy.

The demurrer filed to this replication is speand asigns for cause,

1. That it states thie evidence of title, and
does not allege a fact.
2. That it is double, in relying on the facts
both of title and of non-residence.
But, claiming the right of looking back to the
first fault, and other benefits appertaining to a
general demurrer, to which, no doubt, he is entitled, the counsel for the defendant have raised a
variety of other questions in the cause, of more
interest than those specified.
As,first, that the counts in the declaration are
repugnant, the one being essentially a count in
trover, the other in detinue ; and,
Secondly, that the replication involves a depar.ture, inasmuch as the writ claims the whole prdperty, and the replication shows him to be entitled to 'no more than a moiety.
That the replication is more characterized by
prolixity, than by science, the Court will readily
admit; but that. it is essentially vicious, cannot
be maintained.
The general object of the plaintiff is to fortii
his title or demand, and this is a legitimate object. Nor ian we perceive, that in doing this,
he has either stated evidence where he ought to
allege facts, or tendered to the defendant a double
answer to his plea, or, rather, " distinct matttrs
to one and the same thing, whereunto several
answers are required." That it is redundant,
and abounds in surplusage, with reference to the
issue tendered, is obvious; but it prefers only one

OF THE UNITED STATES.

answer that will fit the plea, which is, absence
from the State of Tennessee during the term

when the statute would bar him.
Yet, as he has thought proper to amplify upon
the nature of his demand, if he had prostrated
his own action, the law would visit him with the
consequences.
The argument on this point is, that having set
out a joint devise to himself and his brother, he
is incapable of maintaining alone a suit for the
entirety of the thing devised. But, in this, we
are of opinion, that the law is with him.
It is true, that tenants in common must ordinarily join in an action, and that the laws of Virginia produce a severance upon the death of a
joint tenant, so that the right of survivorship is
abolished. But, it is also true, that in suits for
an indivisible thing, a right of action survives to
a tenant in common; and this, from the necessity
of the case, as we conceive the authorities sufficiently maintain. (Co. Litt. 198 a. Bro. Abr.
tit. Tenant in Common, pl. 18.)
The exceptions to the counts clearly cannot
be sustained. They are consubstantial, and the
same plea and judgment proper to both: Averring that the defendant came to the possession of
the chattel by finding, does not constitute a count
in trover; an alleged conversion characterizes
that form of action. Nor is it any objection to
the counts, that one of them states a right to recovery founded ina possession merely, without
the direct allegation of property, since a tortious
letention may well be of that which another has

365
1826.
Shelby

v.

Guy.

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT

1826.

no iiLatrest in, but to the temporary us6 or cus-

Shelby
Shelby

tody. (Co. Litt.286. Roll. Abr. 575.) Thus,
a bailee, or common carrier, or sheriff, may
maintain this' action, and expressly against one

V.

Guy.

who has them by delivery or finding. (2 Saund.
T
. 73 et passim.
We come,
C'/
c. 7 3. e
the statute of
limitations, then, to the question raised by the demurrer
upon the statute of limitations of Tennessee;
and here we are met by 6ne of those embarrassments which necessarily grow out of our peculiar
system.
North Carolina, in common with most of the
old States, adopted the language of the statute
of James in its act of limitations. This was the
law of Tennessee before its separation from that
State, and continues so to this day. The persons excepted from its operation, are infants,
femes covert, &c. and " persons beyond seas."
During a century nearly that this law has been
the local law of that country, we cannot ascertain that the Courts of either of those States
have been called on to decide whether it shall
be construed according to its literal meaning.
In the meantime, solemn adjudications have
taken place in several of the States, to the purport, t hat persons without the jurisdiction of the
country, though not actually beyond seas, are
within the equity, if not within the actual meaning, of the statutes containing the same words,
Murray v.Ba-and borrowed from the same source.
And in a
ker, 3 Wf"heal.
np.54 .
case which came up to this Court from Georgia,
in thd year 1818, it was solemnly decided, that it
was impossible to give a sensible and r(-as6nabl(,
Question upon A

OF THE UNITED STATES.

367

construction 'to those words according to their 1826.
literal signification. But, we are now informed, Shelby
and, as it is admitted by the opposite counsel, we
V.
Guy.
cannot question it, that a contrary adjudication
has taken place in the Courts of Tennessee
within the last year, for the first time. It is obvious, that without a more particular report of
that, adjudication, this -Court could not now act
finally upon its authority. But if the majority
of the Court were of opinion, that an insulated
decision on a point thus circumstanced. ought to
control the previous decision of this Court, the
course would undoubtedly be, to hold up this
cause 'for advisement.
That the statute law of the States must far- ofConstruction
local stanish the rule of decision to this Court, as far as tdtes.

they comport with the constitution of the United
States, in all cases arising within the respective
States, is a position that no one doubts. Nor is
it questionable, that a 'fix'ed and received construction of their respective statute laws in their
owni Courts, makes, in fact, a part of the statute
law of the country, however we may doubt the
propriety of that construction. It is obvious,
that this admission may, at timos, involve us in
seeming inconsistencies; as, where, States have
adopted the same statutes, and their Courts differ
in the construction. Yet that course is necessarily indicated by the duty imp9sed on us, to administer, as between certain individuals, the laws
.)f the respective States, according to the best
!ights we possess of what those laws are. This
ourt has uniformly manifested its respect for

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'

Shelby

.

the adjudications of tie State tribunals, and will
be yery moderate in those claims which may be
preferred on the ground of comity. Yet, in a
case like the one now occurring, it cannot acknowledge the objection to go farther, at present,
than to examine the decision formerly rendered,
on the construction of these words.
We have reflected, and heard arguments on our
former decision, and not a doubt has been entertained, except on the question how far we were
bound to surrender an opinion, under the actual
state of difference existing between our construction, and that of the State from which this
cause comes.
It is true, that the words, " beyond seas,"
considered abstractedly, must, in every State in
this Union, mean something more than "without the lijmits of the Commonwealth ;" which
words, thd State of Virginia has very properly"
added to the statute Df James. But, it is also
true, that if the words " beyond seas" be considered with reference to the insular situation of
the cauntry from which we adopted the law, they
mean exactly the same as the words superadded
in the Virginia law. And it was this consideration, as well as the obvious absurdity of applying
the terms "beyond seas," in their literal signification, that induced this Court, and has induced
so many State Courts, to give it the meaning. of
beyond the Commonwealth.
If equity, as applied to the construction of
statutes by an eminent writer, means, " the
porrection of that wherein the law, by reason of

369

OF THE UNITED STATES.

its universality, is deficient ;" or, as another defines it, " interpreting statutes by the reason of
them," may be applied' to any case, we think it
may to one, which, while it, operates in restraint
of common right, would, by a literal construction, make no saving in favour of persons residing in the most distant and unfrequented parts
of this extensive continent.
Nevertheless, as this cause must go back .upon
other grounds, we will, for the present, waive a
positive decision on this point as applied to the
State of Tennessee, trusting that the Courts of
the State from which this cause comes will, in
due time, furnish such lights upon the fixed law
of that State on this subject, as will enable the
Courts' of the United States to come to a satisfactory conclusion upon the question.
The next class of questions in the cause arise
under bills of exception. The object of the defendants, in the several prayers for instructions
propounded to the Court, was to be let into proof
of a title, without will or deed, in the father of
T. T. G., from whom they purchased, and to
maintain, that although that title was only derived to him by implication under the limitation
acts of Virginia, it was sufficient, not only to
make out a defence by pleading, but by giving
such facts in evidence as would be a good defence on a plea of the statute of limitations, if
the suit were instituted in the State of Virginia,
or to maintain detinue in a suit to recover in right
of a possession under the statute in that State.
VOL. XI.

4-

1826.
Shelby

v.

Guy.

-

370

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Slb

Shelby

With this view, he proposed to rely on the follow-

ing propositions:

1. That the proof that Dickerson, on the marriage of Guy with his daughter, had sent
the
slave in question with them, or to them, upon
their going to house-keeping, and permitted her
to remain there ever after as their property, without any specific declaration of the interest vested in them, other than the will of 1783, with a
variety of corroborating facts, was sufficient to
sustain an inference of a gift or transfer by parol, and of such an adverse possession as might
constitute a bar under the act of limitations of
Virginia of 1705.
This the Court refused, on the ground that a
parol gift of slaves in Virginia was, at the date
of that transaction, absolutely void.
In this, it is contended, the Court erred, both
as to the law, and as to its application to the
case.
As to%the law, we are of opinion, that the
Whether a
parol gift of
question
is not now to be stirred. We do not
slaves wasvalid by the laws
of
Virginia mean to intimate an opinion on the construction
s j
previous to the
act of 1787. of the acts of 1757 and 1758, on this subject;
but only to treat it as a decided point upon the
construction of those statutes, that a parol gift
of slaves made in Virginia, even where the possession passed, between the years 1757 and
1787, was void, or voidable; for, as to all the
purposes of this case, it is immaterial which.
The declaratory act of December 31, 1787, we
regard as a new enactment, taking effect from
its date. as a repeal of the prior acts in those
v.

G uy.

OF THE UNIrED STATES.

cases in which the possession passed with the 1826.
gift. The possession here relied on was from
Shelby
1775 to 1788, at which time the will was recordv.
ed. And here, the material question arises, Guy.
Howfarhe
whether, if void or voidable, it does not create
S
Court below
such an adverse interest in the donee, as the sta-rre°d
jecting i. rethe
tute of 1795 may attach upon, so as to vest aproof.
complete interest. And, on this point, we think
the Court erred in rejecting the proof. For, although the gift may have been void or voidable,
the fact of delivery of possession attended it,
and this must have put the party to his action to
reinstate himself in the enjoyment of the property. The limitation to the action of detinue in
Virginia, is five years; and here the supposed
donee proves a possession of ten years.
There can, then, be but one doubt raised on
the right of the defendant to the instruction here
prayed, and to the admission of the evidence offered to the fact of a parol gift, and that is,
whether lie could avail himself of this defence
in this mode.
In the case of Newby v. Blakky, (3 Hen. 4-inpossession
Five years
Munf. 57.) a case strikingly resembling this inslav

of

obn.t,-

its circumstances, it was adjudged; that a plain-te lase of
tiff, in Virginia, may recover in detinue
upon
which
I
oI~r'€ five be
set up might
asa
years peaceable possession of a
e acqire- defenet by th
without force, or fraud. And, four months after de fe nda nt in
that decision, and obviously without being ap-Tennesser,.
,prised of itthis Court, in the case of Brent v.
Chapman, maintained the same doctrine.- (5
Crdnch's Rep. 358.)
It follows,'we think, that, on the same princi-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'r--'

Shelby

V.

Guy.

Second

ple, such a possession must constitute a good
defence in Tennessee.

To preclude the defend-

ant from availing himself of the benefit of that
evidence which would have sustained an action

for the same property by the person from whom
he purchased it, would be to convert a good and
valid title in Virginia, into a defeasible title in
Tennessee; a sufficient title in a vendor, into a
defeasible title in his vendee; and, by an indirect operation, to make the seller liable, where a
direct action could not have been maintained
against him to recover the property sold.
xcepThe second prayer is calculated to obtain of
the Court an instruction, that, after an indefinite
loan to Guy the father, a subsequent devise to
his children, if intended to save the slaves from
his creditors, was inoperative as to Guy, and
purchasers for valuable consideration claiming
under him, unless with actual notice of the will.
On this, it is sufficient to remark, that as there
were no creditors before the Court, the Court
was under no obligation to speculate upon the
possible effect of their interests upon the case.
And this gets rid of Lhe influence of the decision
in Fitzhugh v. Anderson, on the cause, as will be
more particularly shown in a subsequent part of
this opinion. The defendant here, was a purchaser from T. T. G. at the time when the will
of the grandfather was of record. How far
purchasers are affected with record notice, is obviously a point of local law. And, we understand, that much importance is attached to it in
the jurisprudence of Virginia. Certainly, in or-

373

OF THE UMTED STATES.

dinary cases, where such a source of information

1826.

is open to all, those
who do not avail themselves
•
of it come with an ill grace before a Court to
complain of imposition.

S
Shelby

v.
Guy.

Third
The third prayer was intended to maintain,
jury

excep-

The fourth prayer had relation to the question, Fourth

eep-

case, the
that, on the circumstances of the
might infer both a deed, and the recording of
that deed. Broad as this claim was, it is obvious,
that the Court was not bound to give the instruction, since it would have availed the party nothing,
without the additional fact of the loss or extinction of the record also.

whether the right of action survived to the tenant
in common, which has been already answered.
As Thomas Terry Guy died before his son John,
the executory devise to John and the plaintiff became vested "- possession. Their right of action then accrued, and that right §urvived to this
plaintiff, whatever may be the ultimate distribution of the slaves when recovered. This also
was rightfully refused.
And the same remark answers many of the
exceptions taken to the charge which the Court
below did give, upon the sufficiency of the plaintiff's cause of action, and the form of laying it.
Other exceptions are taken to the legal doctrines of that charge; one of which is, that, under the Virginia statute of frauds of 1785, the
loan, with five years possession, became a vested
title in T. T. G. ; another, that upon the general
doctrines of Courts of law, on the subject of
frauds imputable where the possession remains

374

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'
Shelby.

VI

Guy.

in one, and the right in another, this will should
be adjudged a mere cover and evasion, or a new
devise for the perpetratioh of fraud.
But, on these subjects, we think it unnecessary
to. remark at any length; the dates and facts do
not bring the case within the operation of the
statute of frauds of 1785; and, with regard to
the general doctrine, it never has been supposed
to extend to a purchaser with notice, much less
to a purchaser whom the local law affects with
notice of the highest order. Had the defendant,
in this instance, been a creditor of T. T. G., who
had trusted him on the faith of this property, and
now sought relief under the principle in Twyne's
case, the decision in Fitzhugh "v. Anderson,
(2 Hen. 4- Muf. 2M9.) might have applied.
That case was expressly decided upon the principle in Twyne's case. The complainants were
legatees of their grandfather, under a will that
was not recorded until three years after the creditors (who were defendants) had sold the son's
slaves under execution; slaves which he had
held in possession for fifteen years, under a loan,
which was never avowed until the slaves were set
up for sal' , and which there was obviously much
cause for bringing into serious suspicion.
Judgment reversed, and a venirefaciasde nova
awarded.

