415

OF THE UNITED STATES.

plaintiff in error, and Mr. Webster, for the defendants

182 .
"V.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL stated, that the Williams.
writ of error must be dismissed, it having issued
irregularly. The judgment in the Circuit Court
of Ohio was a joint judgment, upon a joint ac'tion for money lent, against three defendants;
and the writ of error was sued out by one of the
defendants, in his own name only, without joining
the others. The Court was of opinion, that the
writ of error ought to have been in the name of
the three; and if the others should refuse to join
in it, that it would deserve consideration whether
the present plaintiff might not have summons
and severance.

Writ of error dismissed.

[PICACTICE.J

BARNES

and Others against WILLIAMS.

Where, in a special verdict, the essenti:al Ncts are not distinctly foond
by the jury, although there is sufficient evidence to establish them,
this Court will not render a judgment upon such an imperfect
special verdict, but will remand the cause to the Court below, with
directions to award a vesirefacia de noo.

THIS case was argued by Air. Wickliffe and

Feb. 6t,

416

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Barn"

Mr. Talbot, for the plaintiffs, and byMr. White
and Mr. Isaacks, for the defendant.

V.

Witliafm
.Feb. 71k.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL stated, that, upon
inspecting the record, it had been discovered,
that the special verdict found in the case was too
imperfect to enable the Court to render a judgment upon it. The claim of the plaintiffs being
founded upon a bequest of certain slaves, it was
essential to a recovery at law, that the assent of
the executor to the legacy should be proved.
Although, in the opinion of the Court, there was
sufficient evidence in the special verdict from
which the jury might have found the fact, yet
they have not found ityand the Court could hot,
upoh a ,special verdict, intend it. The special
verdict was defective in stating the evidence of
the fact, instead of the fact itself. It was impossible, therefore, that a judgment could be pronounced for the plaintiff. So, as to the defendant's defence under the statute of limitations,
the special verdict did not find any facts by which
the Court could ascertain at what time the right
of action accrued. ,It wasq not stated that the
plaintiff and defendant were ever resident in the
same State at the same time. Although it was
found, that E. D. Barnes, one of the plaintiffs,
came into the State of Tennessee after he arrived at the age of twenty-one years, and more
than three years before the suit was brought, yet
it was not found, that (luring any part of that
time, the defendant, Williams, was resident in
that State. The case was, therefore. too imper

OF THE UNITED STATES.

411

fectly stated to enable the Court to decide the 1826.
questions upon which the opinions of the Judges The
The-U.
U. S.
of the Circuit Court were opposed, and the
v.
cause was remanded to that Court, with direc- Kely.
tions to award a venirefaciasde nro.

[CoNSTRcCToN OF STATUTE.

The UNITED STATES V.KELLY and Others.
AlthoUgh the Crimes Act of 1790, c. 36. [ix.] s. 12. does not defint:

the offence of endeavouring to make a revolt, it is competent for
tie Court to give a judicial definition of it.
The offence consists in the endeavour of the crew of a vessel, or any
one or more of them, to overthrow the legitimate authority of the
commander, with intent to remove him from his command, or
against his viIl to take possession of the vessel by assuming the
government and navigation of her, or by transferring their obedience from the lawful commander to some other person.

THE defendants, Kelly and others, were indicted in the Circuit Court for the District of
Pennsylvania, for that the defendants, on the
24th of December, 1824, being seamen on board
a merchant vessel of the United States, called
the Lancaster, on the high seas, feloniously endeavoured to make a revolt in the said vessel,
contrary to the act of Congress of the 30th of
April, 1790, c. 36. [ix.] s. 12. The defendants
were found guilty, and moved the C6'rt in arrest
Vol. XT.

