304

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Finley
V.

BankofU.S.
[PRACTICE.

CHANCERY.

MORTGAOE.J

Appellant, against THE PRESIDENT,
DIRECTORS, and COMPANY, OF THE BANK OF
THE UNITED STATES, Respondents.

FINLEY,

Although, in general, all encumbranders must be made parties to a
bill of foreclosure, yet where a decree of foreclosure and sale was
made and executed, at the suit of a subsequent mortgagee, and
with the consent of the mortgagorit not appearing to the Court
that there was any prior'encumbrance, the proceedings will not
be set aside upon the application of the mortgagor, in order to let
in the prior mortgagee, who ought regularly to have been made
a party, unless it be necessary to prevent irremediable mischief.
qucere, .Whether such a practice be admissible in any case ?
But in such a case, the. prior encumbrancers are not bound by the
decree -in a suit to which they are not made parties ; and the purchasers under the sale take subject to the prior liens.
1eb.

24th.

Feb. 25th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Bibb for the
appellant,a and by Mr. Webster for the respondents.
Mr. Chief Justice
opinion of the Court.

MARSHALL

delivered the

a He cited the following authorities, to show that all encumbrancers, or persons having an interest existing at the commencement of the suit, must be made parties to a bill of foreclosure, or
they will not be bouud by the decree. Haines v. Beach, S Johns.
Ch. Rep: 459. 466. Ensworth v. Lambert, 4 Johns. Ch. Rep.
605. AF'Gown v. Gerks, 6 Johns. Rep. 450. and the authorities
collected in those cases.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

305

This is a bill in Chancery brought by the Bank 1826.
of the United States against James Finley, to Finley
v.
obtain a decree for the sale of property mortgaged for the security of a debt due to the bank. BankofU.S.
The mortgage deed was executed on the 28th
of September, 1822, and contains a recital of
debts due to the bank to the amount of 6,240
dollars, on account of which a note was executed
on that day to the bank for that sum, payable
sixty days after date. At the November term of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky, the bill was filed, stating
the consent of the mortgagor to an immediate
sale of the mortgaged property, although the
day of payment was not arrived; and, on the
same day, an answer was filed consenting to a
decree for the sale. A decree was immediately
entered, by consent of parties, directing the
Marshal to sell the property. The Court then
proceeds to direct the Marshal, after deducting
the expenses of sale, his commission, and the
costs, to pay to the bank the sum of 6,240 dollars, with interest from the date of the note.
The sale was made in pursuance of the decree,
and the report thereof was returned to the Court
by the Marshal.
At the sueceeding term, William Coleman
filed his petition, stating, among other things,
that he held a prior mortgage on the same lands,
and praying that he might be made a party defendant to the suit. His petition was rejecte,
and he prayed an appeal to thisCourt, whidh
V1 oJ,. XI

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
\
Finley

v.

has been dismissed as irregularly granted. After
dismissing this petition, the Circuit Court prothe
nounced a decree affirming the sale made by
and directing the credit to which Finley
should be entitled for the money paid out of its
proceeds to the bank. This decree also considers the. debt due to the bank as amounting to
6,240 dollars,'with interest from the date of the
note.
The mortgage to Coleman is filed, and appears
to be dated three days anterior to that made -to
the bank. , A suit to obtain a sale of the premises was instituted in the State Court in March,
1823, 'and was depending when the final decree
was pronounced at the suit of the bank. After
the final decree had been pronounced, Finley filed
a petition, praying that the sale and decree might
be set aside, alleging, among other reasons therefor, that Coleman, the prior mortgagee, had not
been made a party, althbugh the existence of his
mortgage was known to the bank.
The prayer of the petition was rejected, and
Finley has appealed to this Court. The counsel
for the plaintiff in error insists, that this decree
ought to be reversed, because it was pronounced
in a case in which prQper parties were not before the Court.
It cannot be doubted that Coleman ought regularly to have been a party defendant, and that
had the existence of his mortgage been known
to the Court, no decree ought -to have been pronounced in the cause until he was introduced
into it. But this fact was kept out of view until

afU. S.Marshal,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

307

the decree was pronounced, the sale made, the 1826.
money paid to the creditor, and the report of his Finley
proceedings returned by the Marshal. If the
V.
manner in which the sale was made, and the BankofU.S.
money directed to be paid, be unusual and exceptionable, it was done by consent, and-the error is not imputable to the Court. The only
question presented to the Judges bythis petition,
was, whether a decree, completely executed by a
sale of the property, and payment of the purchase money, should be set aside, and the suit
reinstated for the purpose of introducing a party
who ought regularly to have b6en an original defendant, but-who was not shown, by any proceedings in the cause, to be concerned in interest
until the decree was made and executed. There
would certainly be great inconvenience in such a
practice; and, if it he admissible in any case, on
which the court gives no opinion, it must be
where the mischief resulting from a rejection of
the petition would be irremediable. This is not
shown to be a case of that description. Coleman's mortgage canpot be Wffected by this decree. His rights cannot be extinguished byit. His
suit in the State Court will proceed as if this decree had never been pronounced.
The purchasers under the decree of the Circuit Court,
take the land subject to prior encumbrances, and
have, probably, taken this encumbrance into consideration in the. price given for the land. But,
be this as it may, they do not complain, or qbject
to their purchase, in coirsequence of the aloud
hanging over the title. Coleman'srightS can-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUM'f

1826.
v.

not be affected; and if Finley has suffered by sellhis land subject to a lien, it is an injury
which he has knowingly brought upon
himself.

Sing

BankofU.S. This is not, then, a case for such an extraordi-

nary measure as opening a decree made by consent, after it has been carried into execution, on
the petition of the party who has given that consent. We do not think the decree is erroneous
because the prior mortgagee was not made a defendant, that fact not having appeared to the
Court until the ifecree was completely executed.
But, in the disposition of the money produced
by the sale, a small mistake appears to have been
made. There were some previous debts due
from Finley to the bank, amounting to 6,240 dollars, which appear to have been absorbed in the
note given for that sum on the 28th of September, 1822, payable sixty days after date, to secure
the payment of which the mortgage deed was
executed. If this note carried interest from its
date, that fact does not appear, and cannot be
presumed. The mortgage deed does not purport to secure the payment of such interest. Yet
the decree of the Circuit Court subjects the
mortgaged property to its payment. This error
ought to be corrected, and may yet be corrected
in the Circuit Court. It does not affect the sale.
In all other respects, the decree is to be affirmed.
DECrEE. - This cause came on -to be argued,
&c. On consideration whereof, this Court is of
opinion, that. there is no error in the decree for
the sal-e of the mortgaged premises in the bill

