OF THE UNITED STATES.

431
1826.
Mills
V.

The Bank of
the U.,S.

LPaomissor 1NOTE:.]

MILLS, Plaintiff in Error,

against
The

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS,

THE BANK OF THE UNITED

and

COMANY OF

STATES,

Defend-

ants in Error.
No precise form of notice to the endorser of a promissory note is necessar. ; and it is not necessary to state, in the notice, who is the holder; nor will a mistake as to the date of the note vitiate the notice2
if it conveys to the 'party a sufficient knowledge of the particular
note which has been dishonoured.
It is not necessary -that the notice should contain, a formal allegation
that it was demanded at the plice where payable. It is sufficiefit
that it states the fact of n6n-payment of the note, and that the
holder looks to the endorser for indemnity.
By the general law, demand of payment of a bill or note must be
made on the third day of grace; but where a note is made for the
purpose of being negotiated at a bank, whose custom is to demand
payment, and give notice on the fourth day, that custom forms a
part of the law of the contract ; and it is not necessary that a personal knowledge of the usage should be brought home to the endorser for that purpose.
The general rule of law, requiiring proof of the title of the holders of'
a note, may be modified by a rule of Court, dispensing with proof
of the execution of the note, unless the party shall annex to his
plea an affidavit that the note was not executed by him.

THIS cause war argued by Mr. Wright fbr the March 8th.
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Webster for the defendants in error.
'r. Justice
the Court.

STORY

delivered the opinion of March 1s.

432

1826.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Thisis a suit originally brought in the Circuit
Court of Ohio, by the Bank of the united States,
Mills
V.
against A. G. .Wood and George Ebert- doing
U. States..' business under the firm of Wood and Ebert,
Alexander Adair, Horace Reed, and the plaintiff in error, Peter Mills. The declaration was
for 3,600 dollars, money lent and advanced.
During the pendency. of the suit, Reed and
Adair died. Mills filed a separate plea of non
assumpsit, upon which issue was joined; and upon the trial, the jury returned a verdict for the
Bank of the United States for 4641 dollars;
upon which judgment was rendered in their favour. At the trial, a bill of exceptions was taken by Mills, for the consideration of the matter of which [he present writ of error has been
brought to this Court.
By the bill of exceptions it appears, that the
evidence offered by the plaintiffs in support of
the action, "was, by consent of uounsel, permitted to go to the jury, saving all exceptions to its
.competence and admissibility, which the counsel
for the defendant reserved the right to insist in
claiming the instructions of the Court to the jury
on the whole case."
The plaintiffs offered in evidence a promissory
note signed Wood and Ebert, and purporting to
be endorsed in blank by Peter Mills, Alexander
tdair, and Horace Reed, as successive endorsers,
which note, with the endorsements thereon, is
as follows, to wit: -" Chilicothe, 20th of July,
1819. Dollars 3,600. Sixty days after date I pro.mise to pay to Peter Mills, or order, at the offi.ei

OF THE UNITED STATES.

433

Of discount and deposit of the Bank of the Uni- 1826.
ted States, at Chilicothe, three thousand six -- ",,
hundred dollars, for value received. Wood & Bank V.
of tho
Ebert." Endorsed, "Pay to A. Adair or order, o.
States..
Peter Mills." "Pay to Horace Reed or order.
A. Adair." " Pay to the P. Directors and Company of the Bank of the U. States, or order.
Horace Reed." On the upper right hand corner of the note is also endorsed, " 3185. Wood
& Ebert, 3,600 dollars, Sep. 18-21." It was
proven, that this note had been sent to the
office at Chilicothe to renew a note which
had been five or six times previously renewed
by the same parties. It was proven, by the deposition of Levin Belt; Esq., Mayor of the
town of Chilicothe, that, on the 22d day of
September, 1819, immediately after the commencement of the hours of business, he duly
presented the said note at the said office of discount and deposit, and there demanded payment
of the said note, but-there was no person there
ready or willing to pay the same, and the said
note was not paid, in consequence of which, the
said deponent immediately protested the said
note for the non-payment and dishonour thereof,
and immediately thereafter prepared a notice fof
each of the endorsers respectively, and immediately on the same day deposited. one of said
notices in the post-office, directed-to Peter Mills,
at Zanesville, (his place of residence,) of which
notice the followihg is a copy: " Chilicothe, 22d
of September, 1819. Sir, you will hereby take
Vol. XI.

55

-44
1826.
- M~ills

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

notice, that a note drawn by Wood & Ebert,
dated 20th day of September, 1819, for G,600
.
Sv.. dollars, payable to you, or order, in sixty days, at
U. States the office of discount and deposit of the Bank
of the United States at Chilicothe, 'and on'which
you are endorser, has been protested for nonpayment,' and the holders thereof look to you.
Yours, respectfully, Levin Belt, Mayor of Chilicothe." (Peter Mills, Esq.) It was further
proven'by the plaintiffs, that it had been the custom of the banks in Chilicothe, for a long time
previously to the establishment of a branch in
that place, to make demand of-promissory notes,
and bills of exchange, on the day after the last
day of grace, (that is, on the 64th day,) that the
Branch Bank, on its establishment at Chilicoth ,
adopted-that custom, and that such had been the
uniform usage in the several banks in that place
ever since. No evidence was given of the hand
writing of either of the endorsers. ' The Court
charged the jury, first, that the notice being-sufficient to put the defendant upon inquiry, was
good, in point of form, to charge him, although
it did not name the person who was holder of
-the said note, nor state that a demand had been
made at'the bank when the note was due.
2. That if the jury find that there was no *other
note payable in the office at Chilicotbe, drawn
by Wood & Ebert, and endorsed by defendant,
except the note in controversy, the mistake in
the date of the note made by the notary in the
notice given to that defendant, does not impair
the liability of the said defendant, and the plain

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tiffs have a right to recover.

3. That should the

4S
1826.

jury find that the usage of banks, and of the of- MIills
V.
fice of discount and deposit in Chilicothe, was
to make demand of payment, and to protest and BankState.th
give notice, on the 64th day, such demand and
notice are sufficient.
IThe counsel on the part of the'defendant,
prayed the Court to instruct the jury, "that before
the common principles of the law relating to 'the
demand and notice necessary to harge the endorser, can be varied by a usage and custom of
the plaintiffs, the jury must be satisfied that the
defendant had' personal knowledge of the usage
or custom at the time he endorsed the note; and,
also, that 'before the plaintiffs can recover as the
holder and endorser of a promissory note, they
must prove their title to the proceedi by'evidence
of the endorsements on the note," which instructions were refused by the Court
Upon this posturie of the- case, no questibns
arise for determination here, except such as grow
out of the charge of the Court, or the in'structions refused on the prayer of the defend-ant's
(Mills') counsel. Whether the evidence was, in
other respects, sufficient to establish the joint
promise stated in the declaration, 9r the. joint
consideration of money lent, are matters: not
submitted to us upon the record, and were proper.
for argument to the jury.
The firsti point is, whether the notice seiiito
the defendant at Chilicothe, was suffibientiot6
charge him as endorser. The Court 'was-'of
opinion, that it was sufficient, if there'was no other
'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

436
1826.
Mills

v.

note payable in the office at Chilicothe, drawn
by Wood & Ebert, and endorsed by the defendant.

Bank of the

It is contended, that this opinion is erroneous,
Supposed de-because the notice was fatally defective by reaU. States.

lects if the 1o- son of its not stating who was the holder, by reatices

son of its misdescription of the date of the note,
and by reason of its not stating that a demand
bad been made at the bank when the note was
due. The first objection proceeds upon a doctrine which is not admitted to be correct; and
no authority is produced to support it. No form
of notice to an endorser has been prescribed by
law. The whole object of it is to inftorm the
party to whom it is sent, tht payment has been
refused by the maker; that he is considered liable ; and that payment is expected of him. It is of
no consequence to the endorser who is the holder,
as he is equally bound by. the notice, whomsoever
he may be; and it is time enough for him to ascertain the true title of the holder, when he is
called upon for payment.
The objection of misdescription may be disposed of in a few li ords. It cannot be for a
moment maintained, 'that every variance, however immaterial, is fatal to the notice. It must
be such a variance as conveys no sufficient
knowledge to the party of the particular 'note
which has been dishonoured. If it does not
-mislead him, if it conveys to him the real fact
without any doubt, the variance cannot be material, either to guard his rights, or avoid hi6 responsibility. In the present case, the misdescription wa- merely in the date.. The suni, the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

437

parties, the time and place of payment, and the 1826.
endorsement, were truly and accurately de- "-"
Mills
scribed. The error, too, was apparent on the
v.
Bank of the
face of the notice. The party was informed, U. State .
that on the 22d of September, a note endorsed
by him, payable in sixty days, was protested for
non-payment; and yet the note itself was stated
to be dated on the 20th of the same month, and,
of course, only two days before. Under these
circumstances, the Court laid down a rule most
favourable to the defendant. It directed the jury
to find the notice good, if there was no other note
payable in the office at Chilicothe, drawn by
Wood & Ebert, and endorsed by the defendant.
If there was no other note, how could the mistake of date possibly mislead *the defendant? If
he had endorsed but one note for Wood & Ebert,
how could the notice fail to be full and unexceptionable in fact?
The last objection to the notice is, that it does
not state that payment was demanded at the
bank when the note became due. It is certainly
not necessary that the notice should contain such
a formal allegati,,n. It is sufficient that it states
the fact of non-payment of the note, and that
the holder looks' to the endorser for indemnity.
Whether the demand was duly and regularly
made, is matter of evidence to be established at
the trial. If it be not legally made, no averment, howdver accurate, will help the case; and
a statement of non-payment, and notice, is, by
necessary implication, an assertion of right by
the holder, founded upon his having bomplied

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. -with the requisitions, of law against the endorser.
In point of fact, in commercial cities, the gene•Mills.
,
A
ral, if not 'universal, practice is, not to state in
Bank or the'
U. States. the notice the mode or place of demand, but the
mere naked non-payment.
Upon the point, then, of notice, we think
there is no error in the opinion of the Circuit
Court.
Usage of the
Another question is, whether the usage and
bank to de
mandpayment
custom of the bank, not to make demauid of payand give noo
.t
thefment
until the fourth day of grace, bound the
rday. o fenatu~
gora, bidi defendant, unless he had personal knowledge of
There is no doubt, that
as part of the that usage and custom.
law of the conper- according to-the general rules of law, demand of
proof
without
tract, of
sonal know- payment ought to be made on the third day, and
seage
Ofbeig that it is too late if made on the fourth day of
brought home gr.
But it has been decided by this Court,
enuceubthsCr,
to them.
grc..a
upon full consideration' and argument, in the
case of Rennet v. The Bank of Columbia, (9
Wlzeat. Rep. 582.) that where a note is made
for the purpose of being negotiated at a Bank,
whose custom, known to the parties, it is to demand payment and give notice on the fourth day
of grace, that custom forms a part of the law of
such contract, at least so far as to bind their
rights. In the present case, the Court is called
upon to take one step farther ; and upon the principles.and reasoning of the former case, it has
come to the conclusion, that when a note is made
payable or negotiable at a bank, whose invariable
usage it is to demand payment, and give notice
on the fourth day of grace, the partie$ are bound
by What usage, whether they have a personal

OF THE- UNITED STATES.

knowledge of it. or not. In fhe 'case of such, a 1826.
note, the-parties are presumed by implication to
V.
agree to be governed by- the usage of the bank
states.
u
security
make-the
to
chosen
have
at'which they
itself negotiable.
Another question propounded by the defend- RnlenrCout
proof of
ant is, whether the plaintiffs were entitled to re-with
execution of
&c.unnote, the
cover without establishing their title to.the nlt, less
de-'
file
fendant
There
as holders by proof of the-endorsements.
•
with his plea
an adavit,
is no doubt, that by the general -rule of law, such. denyingthe
proof is indispensable on. the part of the.plain- execution of
tiffs, unless it is'waived by the ther side. Butthe note.
in all such cases, the defendant may waive-'a rlel
introdue-ed for his benefit; and such.waiver miy
be implied from -circumstances, as well as expressly given. - It is in this .view that the auledf
the Circuit Court of Ohio of 1819, whieh. has
been referred to at the bar, deserves considerar
tion That rule declares, "that.. hereafte' Jn
any actions brought upon bond, bill,.# not , it
shall not be -necessary for the plai.ntiffs, on trial
to prove the execution of the b6nd bill, or note,
unless the defendant shall have filed with his
plea an affidavit, that such bond,bill, or note,,was
not executed by him.".. We think the present
case falls completely within the purview of this
rule. Its object was to prevent unnecessary expense and useless delays upon objections at otr
als, which were frivolous - and unconnected'witl.
the nierits. If the rule attempted to interfqre
with, or control the rules of evidence, it cer.tainly could not be supported. . But it attempts
no such thing. It does not. den. to: the party

440

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. the right to demand proof of the execution or en
dorsement of the note at the trial; but it re"
V. tquires
him in effect, to give notice by affidavit,
Bank of the
U. States, accompanying the plea, that he means to contest
that fact under the issue. If the party gives no
such notice, and files no such affidavit, it is on
his own part a waiver of the right to contest the
fact, or rather an admission that he does not
mean to contest it. We see no hardship in such
a rule. It subserves the purposes of justice,
and prevents thb accumulation of costs. It follows out, in an exemplary manner, that injunction
of the Judiciary act of the 2d of March, 1793,
ch. 22., which requires the Courts of the United
States "to regulate the practice thereof, as shall
be fit and necessary for the advancement of justice, and especially to that end io prevent delays
in proceedings." As no affidavit accompanied
the plea of the defendant in the present case, he
had no right to insist upon the proof of the endorsements.
Another objection now urged against the
judgment is, that the count demands 3,600 dollars only, and the jury gave damages amounting
to 4,64Vdollars. But there is no error in this
proceeding, since the ad dan num is for a larger
sum. In all cases where interest, not stipulated
for by the terms of the contract, is given by way
of damages, the sum demanded in the declaration is less than the sum for whivh judgment is
rendered. The plaintiffs may not recover more,
as principal, than the sum demanded as such in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the declaration; but the jury have a right to add 1826.
interest, by way of damages, for the delay.
Miller's
at
Heirs
suggested
Some other objections have been
the bar, such as, that the jury had no right, M'htir .
without evidence, to presume that there was no
other note of Wood & Ebert, in order to help
the misdescription ; and.that the case proved was
of several liabilities of - the defendants, which
would not support a declaration on a joint contract. These questions have been fully argued
by counsel, but arenot presented by the record
in such a shape as to enable the Court to take
cognizance of them.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court
that the judgment ought to be affirmed, with
'costs.

"LocaL LAW. 1

MILLER-s

Heirs against M'INTIRE & Others.

Quare. Whether the compact of 1789, between Virginia and'
Kentucky, restrained the legislature of Kentucky from' prolonging
the time for surveying one entry to the prejudice of another?

By the construction of the act of Kentucky of -1797; granting furtier time for making surveys, with a proviso, allowing to infants,
&c. threb years after their several disabilities are removed to complete surveys on their entries; if any one or more of the joint owners be under the disability of infancy, &c. it brings the entry with
in the saving of the proviso, as to all of the other owners

rom. X5.

