OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.

TRANSCON LINES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 93-1318.

Argued November 1, 1994-Decided January 10, 1995

The Interstate Commerce Act grants petitioner Interstate Commerce
Commission (ICC) authority to set the exclusive means by which common carriers extend credit to shippers. Under the ICC's regulations,
credit may be extended for periods of up to 30 days, and, if shippers fail
to pay, carriers may assess interest charges and liquidated damages to
cover collection costs. In this suit to enjoin the trustee in bankruptcy
appointed for respondent motor carrier, Transcon Lines, from collecting
liquidated damages from Transcon's former customers, the ICC asserted
that Transcon had violated three of the credit regulations' procedural
requirements: Its bills did not advise shippers of the consequences of
late payment; revised bills were not issued within 90 days after the
expiration of the authorized credit period; and damages were applied by
a bankruptcy trustee on an aggregate basis. The District Court
granted summary judgment for respondents, and the Court of Appeals

affirmed in relevant part, holding that the filed rate doctrine and this
Court's decision in MaislinIndustries, U S., Inc. v. PrimarySteel, Inc.,
497 U. S. 116, barred the ICC from enforcing its credit regulations in a
manner that would prevent collection of a filed rate. On remand from
this Court, the Court of Appeals adhered to that determination.
Held: The filed rate doctrine does not bar the injunction the ICC seeks.
The Act grants the ICC broad authority to bring civil actions to enforce
the statute and regulations or orders issued under it. This Court has
specified that seeking a federal-court injunction to require a carrier to
comply with the regulations is such an enforcement power. Southern
Pacific Transp. Co. v. Commercial Metals Co., 456 U. S. 336, 352, 349.
Although not without limits, the ICC's judgment that a particular remedy is an appropriate exercise of its enforcement authority is entitled to
some deference. Two substantial reasons support the conclusion that
the remedy chosen in this case is appropriate. First, it is necessary to
the effective enforcement of the ICC's regulations. Should the injunction be disallowed, trustees of bankrupt carriers would be immune, in
effect, from enforcement of the credit regulations. Second, the remedy
serves the intended beneficiaries of the violated regulations: shippers,
whom the regulations protect from the imposition of penalties without

Cite as: 513 U. S. 138 (1995)
Opinion of the Court
warning. Id., at 345-346, distinguished. Neither Maislin nor this
Court's other filed rate cases suggest that the doctrine prohibits the
ICC from requiring departure from a filed rate when necessary to enforce other specific and valid regulations adopted under the Act. Contrary to respondents' contention, the ICC is not seeking to enforce a
secret, unified rate in place of a filed rate, but is seeking to enforce the
rate for shipping over the rate for shipping plus collection efforts.
Pp. 144-149.
9 F. 3d 64, reversed and remanded.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause for
petitioner. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Days, Assistant Attorney General Hunger, Michael R.
Dreeben, Anthony J Steinmeyer, Henri F. Rush, Ellen D.
Hanson,and Evelyn G. Kitay.
Leonard L. Gumport argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the briefs were Joseph L. Steinfeld, Jr., Robert
B. Walker, John T Siegler, and Richard S. Berger.*
JUSTICE KENNEDY delivered the opinion of the Court.

Though recent Acts of Congress have made substantial
changes in the regulation of interstate motor carriers, see
Negotiated Rates Act of 1993, 107 Stat. 2044; Trucking In-

dustry Regulatory Reform Act of 1994, 108 Stat. 1683, this

case arises under the law in effect before those enactments.
We address once again the Interstate Commerce Act's filed
rate requirements, 49 U. S. C. §§ 10761(a), 10762(a)(1), and
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Health and
Personal Care Distribution Conference, Inc., et al. by Daniel J.Sweeney,
FredericL. Wood, and Nicholas J DiMichael;and for the Transportation
Claims and Prevention Council by William J. Augello and Mary Kay
Reynolds.
Briefs of amici curiaeurging affirmance were filed for the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters by Marc J Fink, Judith A Scott, and James
A McCall; and for Lloyd T. Whitaker as Trustee for the Estate of Olympia Holding Corp. by Kim D. Mann.

ICC v. TRANSCON LINES

Opinion of the Court
their bearing on the authority of the Interstate Commerce
Commission (ICC) to enforce related provisions of the Act
and regulations adopted under it.
Under the filed rate doctrine applicable to the transactions
here in question, motor carriers were required to publish
their shipping rates in tariffs filed with the ICC and to
receive only the published rates. Ibid. Our cases have
taught the necessity of strict compliance with this scheme.
E. g., Maislin Industries, U. S., Inc. v. Primary Steel, Inc.,
497 U. S. 116 (1990); Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94, 97 (1915). The question now presented is

whether the filed rate doetrine barg the ICC from obtaining
injunctive relief to enforce its credit regulations in a manner
that would prevent collection of a rate filed in a published
tariff. We hold that the filed rate doctrine does not bar the
injunction the ICC seeks.
I
Transcon Lines (Transcon) was once the 12th largest
motor carrier in the United States, operating under authorization from the ICC. Like many other carriers, Transcon
became a victim of the heightened competition resulting
from Congress' partial deregulation of the motor carrier
industry in 1980. See Motor Carrier Act of 1980, 94 Stat.
793. In May 1990, Transcon consented to an order for relief
pursuant to an involuntary bankruptcy petition filed against
it under Chapter 11. The trustee appointed by the Bankruptcy Court followed the practice of some other trustees
for the estates of bankrupt carriers and sought to collect
undercharges from Transcon's former customers. The
trustee sought not only to collect unpaid freight charges
but also to collect liquidated damages for late payment.
Some 3,000 adversary proceedings brought by the trustee
against Transcon's former customers are pending, and the
ICC estimates the liquidated damages in question total
about $15 million.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 138 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

The Act bars common carriers subject to the ICC's jurisdiction from extending credit for their services except
"[u]nder regulations of the [ICC] governing the payment for
transportation and service and preventing discrimination."
49 U. S. C. §§ 10743(b)(1), 10743(a). By regulations under
this express statutory delegation, the ICC has set out in
detail the exclusive means by which common carriers can
extend credit to shippers. See 49 CFR pt. 1320 (1994).
Under the regulations, carriers are authorized to establish
credit periods of up to 30 calendar days, §§ 1320.2(c), (d),
and, if shippers fail to pay their charges within the established credit period, to assess service (or interest) charges,
§ 1320.2(e). Carriers also may assess liquidated damages to
cover collection costs, either by a tariff rule or through contract terms in their bills of lading. §§ 1320.2(g)(1), (3). Before collecting liquidated damages by tariff rule, however, a
carrier must follow specified procedural requirements.
First, the timing and conditions of any potential liquidated
damages must be described clearly in the carrier's filed tariff. § 1320.2(g)(2)(i). Second, the original bill sent to the
shipper must set forth any liquidated damages that would be
assessed for failure to make timely payment of the freight
charges. § 1320.3(c). Third, within 90 days after expiration
of the authorized credit period the carrier must "issu[e]
a revised freight bill or notice of imposition of collection
expense charges for late payment." § 1320.2(g)(2)(vi). Finally, liquidated damages "[s]hall be applied only to the nonpayment of original, separate and independent freight bills
and shall not apply to aggregate balance-due claims sought
for collection on past shipments by a bankruptcy trustee, or
any other person or agent . . . ." § 1320.2(g)(2)(iii).
Upon satisfying these requirements, carriers may assess
liquidated damages through a tariff rule by one of two methods. The first is "to assess liquidated damages as a separate
additional charge to the unpaid freight bill." § 1320.2(g)(1)
(i). The second is to charge the shipper a "full, nondis-

ICC v. TRANSCON LINES
Opinion of the Court

counted rate instead of the discounted rate [that might otherwise be] applicable." § 1320.2(g)(1)(ii). Transcon used the
second, so-called loss-of-discount method to assess liquidated
damages. The measure of liquidated damages under this
method is prescribed by an ICC regulation. It provides:
"The difference between the discount and the full rate
constitutes a carrier's liquidated damages for its collection effort. Under this method the tariff shall identify
the discount rates that are subject to the condition precedent and which require the shipper to make payment
by a date certain." Ibid.
Transcon's customers had been charged discount rates, expressed as a percentage of a generic bureau rate. To collect
liquidated damages, the trustee demanded the nondiscount
bureau rate from former customers who had failed to pay
their original discount charges on time.
The ICC sued in the United States District Court for the
Central District of California to enjoin the trustee from collecting loss-of-discount liquidated damages. It did not allege that Transcon had failed to state its liquidated damages
provisions in its filed tariff. Transcon had specified in its
"rules tariff" that "discounts ...shall apply only when tariff
charges are paid within 90 calendar days from date of shipment." ICC TCON 103-A, Item 210, 1 Supplemental Excerpts of Record 41. The ICC did assert, though, that
Transcon had violated each of the three other liquidated
damages requirements set out above. Transcon's original
bills did not advise shippers of the consequences of late payment, as required by § 1320.3(c); revised bills were not issued
until several years after the 90-day period provided in
§ 1320.2(g)(2)(vi); and the loss-of-discount provision was
being applied by a bankruptcy trustee on an aggregate basis,
contrary to § 1320.2(g)(2)(iii). The requested injunction
would prohibit the trustee from pursuing claims in violation
of those requirements.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 138 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

The District Court granted summary judgment for respondents, and the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit affirmed in relevant part, ICC v. Transcon
Lines, 990 F. 2d 1503 (1993) (as amended on denial of rehearing and rehearing en bane). The Court of Appeals understood that the ICC as a general matter is authorized to enforce its credit regulations by seeking an injunction, see 49
U. S. C. §§ 11702(a)(4), (a)(6). It also recognized, or at least
implied, that the credit regulations are valid on their face,
but said that "[r]egulations, however valid in other contexts,
cannot furnish the reason for letting the carrier abandon the
filed rate." Transcon,supra, at 1514. Relying on our decision in Maislin Industries, U S., Inc. v. Primary Steel, Inc.,
497 U. S. 116 (1990), that the filed rate doctrine bars the ICC
from interpreting the unreasonable practice rule to prevent
collection of a filed rate where a carrier had agreed to a lower
one, the court concluded that "[t]he ICC's interpretation of
[the liquidated damages] regulations ...has no greater force

than the policy rejected in Maislin." 990 F. 2d, at 1514. It
held that "the filed rate doctrine trumps the manner in which
the ICC seeks to regulate carrier credit in this case." Ibid.
After the Court of Appeals issued its opinion, we decided
Reiter v. Cooper, 507 U. S. 258 (1993). The Court addressed
whether a shipper's unreasonable rate claim could be raised
in a carrier's suit to collect the difference between the
amount charged and the higher amount due under the tariff,
or whether the shipper's claim had to be raised in a separate
proceeding before the ICC. We held the filed rate doctrine
does not bar shippers from raising claims and defenses
accorded by the Act, even if this results in defeating
collection of a filed rate, and allowed the shipper to allege,
subject to the ordinary rules governing counterclaims, an
unreasonable-rate counterclaim to the carrier's undercharge
action. Id., at 262-267. In light of Reiter, we vacated the
Court of Appeals' judgment in the instant matter and remanded for further consideration.

ICC v. TRANSCON LINES
Opinion of the Court

On remand, the Court of Appeals adhered to its earlier
determination. 9 F. 3d 64 (CA9 1993). It found Reiter
distinguishable but concluded that, even if it were apposite,
Reiter did no more than require a balancing of the carrier's
argument based on the filed rate doctrine against the ICC's
argument based on the credit regulations. 9 F. 3d, at 66.
It thought the balance tilted in favor of disallowing relief.
A grant of an injunction would, the Court of Appeals reasoned, "permit an end-run around the filed rate doctrine" by
allowing a carrier and shipper to negotiate a private discount
from the filed rate, while denying the injunction would still
leave the ICC with "a wide array of tools for enforcing its
credit regulations." Id., at 67.
We again granted certiorari, 511 U. S. 1029 (1994), and
now reverse.
II
Just as Reiter was in important respects "a sequel to our
decision in Maislin," 507 U. S., at 260, this case is a sequel to
our decision in Southern Pacific Transp. Co. v. Commercial
Metals Co., 456 U. S. 336 (1982). In Commercial Metals, the
carrier released goods to the consignee before payment, but
failed to investigate the consignee's credit standing, as ICC
regulations required, 49 CFR § 1320.1 (1981). See 456 U. S.,
at 339, 341, and n. 6. When collection against the consignee
proved fruitless and the carrier turned to the shipper for
payment, the shipper sought to raise the carrier's violation
as a defense. We held the defense improper when raised by
the shipper, noting our reluctance to grant the shipper an
implied remedy when the statutory scheme did not grant an
express one. Id., at 345-348. We went on to say, however,
that the case would have been quite different had it involved
the ICC's seeking injunctive relief, a remedy for which it
has specific authority under the Act. We held that "[t]he
remedies for a carrier's violations of the regulations are best
left to the ICC for such resolution as it thinks proper," and
specified that "the ICC has ample authority to police the

Cite as: 513 U. S. 138 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

credit practices of carriers ...[by] seek[ing] a federal-court
injunction requiring a carrier to comply with the regulations
.***" Id., at 352, 349. We conclude that the ICC here
is exercising the enforcement powers we acknowledged in
Commercial Metals.
The Act grants the ICC broad authority to bring civil actions to enforce the statute and regulations or orders issued
under it. 49 U. S. C. § 11702. As respondents themselves
concede, the trustee is attempting in this case to collect liquidated damages in violation of the ICC's credit regulations.
See Brief in Opposition 4-5. To the extent the injunction
applies to "a bankruptcy trustee" applying liquidated damages "to aggregate balance-due claims sought for collection
on past shipments," the ICC seeks a prospective bar to the
trustee's violation of 49 CFR § 1320.2(g)(2)(iii) (1994). This
aspect of the ICC's suit is, in effect, a compliance actionthe precise relief the Court approved in CommercialMetals.
To the extent the ICC seeks to enjoin collection of liquidated
damages as a remedy for Transcon's lack of notification in
the original bills, see 49 CFR § 1320.3(c) (1992), and nonissuance of revised bills within 90 days, see § 1320.2(g)(2)(vi), this
remedy too is appropriate.
The Court's observation in Commercial Metals that the
choice of remedies for violation of its regulations is "best left
to the ICC," 456 U. S., at 352, was a particular invocation of
the general principle that "the relation of remedy to policy is
peculiarly a matter for administrative competence," Phelps
Dodge Corp. v. NLRB, 313 U. S. 177, 194 (1941); ICC v.
American Trucking Assns., Inc., 467 U. S. 354, 355 (1984)
(ICC "has discretion to fashion remedies in furtherance of
its statutory responsibilities") (citing Trans Alaska Pipeline
Rate Cases, 436 U. S. 631, 654 (1978)). Although the ICC's
authority to determine proper remedies for violations under
the Act is not without limits, its judgment that a particular
remedy is an appropriate exercise of its enforcement authority under 49 U. S. C. § 11702(a)(4) is entitled to some defer-

ICC v. TRANSCON LINES
Opinion of the Court

ence. Two substantial reasons support our conclusion that
the remedy chosen by the agency is an appropriate one.
First, its remedy appears to the ICC, and to us, necessary
to the effective enforcement of its regulations. See Commercial Metals, supra, at 350, 352; see also Hewitt-Robins
Inc. v. Eastern Freight-Ways, Inc., 371 U. S. 84, 88 (1962)
(remedy allowed where its absence would "plac[e] the shipper entirely at the mercy of the carrier"). Were we to disallow the injunction, respondents and other trustees of bankrupt carriers would be immune, in effect, from enforcement
of the credit regulations. Relief limited to prospective injunctions requiring carriers to provide notice of liquidated
damages and to send revised bills could have no effect on
bankrupt carriers and their trustees. Nor do the Act's
remedies for unlawful rates, see 49 U. S. C. §§ 10704(b)(1),
11705(b)(3), allow for adequate enforcement of the credit
regulations, for not every credit violation will result in
an unlawful rate.
Second, unlike the credit regulation violated in Commercial Metals, which was intended to protect carriers, 456
U. S., at 345-346, the requirements for notice of liquidated
damages are to protect shippers from the imposition of penalties without warning. When a carrier fails to provide notice, it is an appropriate remedy for the ICC to bar collection
of the liquidated damages, for the remedy serves the regulations' intended beneficiaries. Cf. id., at 344-345 (regulations
do not "intimate that a carrier's violation of the credit rules
[there at issue] automatically precludes it from collecting the
lawful freight charge").
In short, whether or not we would allow shippers to defend against a carrier's collection action by relying on the
carrier's violation of credit regulations, it follows from Commercial Metals and our construction of the controlling statute that the ICC has the authority and the discretion to determine appropriate remedies for these violations. Where,
as here, the remedy involves "a federal-court injunction re-

Cite as: 513 U. S. 138 (1995)

Opinion of the Court
quiring a carrier to comply with the regulations," id., at 349;
constitutes a reasonable and necessary means to effect enforcement of the ICC's credit regulations; and protects the
intended beneficiaries of the violated regulations, we believe
the injunction is authorized under the Act.
In Maislin we concluded the ICC's policy and its interpretation of the Act were "flatly inconsistent with the statutory
scheme as a whole." 497 U.S., at 131. We rejected the
ICC's enforcement policy, just as we had declined to permit
general, nonstatutory equitable defenses in a collection suit.
Our concern was that the policy would undercut the whole
filed rate system, thus permitting shippers to enforce secret,
negotiated, unfiled rates and allowing carriers to discriminate in favor of certain customers. Id., at 130-131.
Neither Maislin nor our other filed rate cases suggest that
the fied rate doctrine prohibits the ICC from requiring departure from a filed rate when necessary to enforce other
specific and valid regulations adopted under the Act, regulations that are consistent with the filed rate system and compatible with its effective operation. Carriers must comply
with the comprehensive scheme provided by the statute and
regulations promulgated under it, and their failure to do so
may justify departure from the filed rate. In Reiter, for example, we confirmed that the filed rate doctrine "assuredly
does not preclude avoidance of the tariff rate . . .through
claims and defenses that are specifically accorded by the
[Act] itself." 507 U. S., at 266 (emphasis deleted). Here, of
course, the ICC can and does rely upon Commercial Metals,
governing the powers of the ICC and not the defenses available to shippers. As we acknowledged in Maislin, the ICC
can require that filed rates be "'suspended or set aside"' in

various circumstances.

497 U. S., at 126 (quoting Keogh v.

Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156, 163 (1922));
see also ICC v. American Trucking Assns., supra, at 360
("[T]he Commission may conduct an investigation into a tariff's lawfulness at any time after it has gone into effect," and

ICC v. TRANSCON LINES
Opinion of the Court

where a tariff violates the Act, "the Commission has authority to cancel the tariff and require that a reasonable and nondiscriminatory rate apply in the future. § 10704(b)(1)").
Any remaining doubts as to the appropriateness of the relief sought are dispelled upon close examination of respondents' particular contention that an injunction here would displace the tariff system by substituting a private agreement
for the filed rate. This is not so. The charge that cannot
be collected is, as respondents themselves concede, Tr. of
Oral Arg. 24, the charge for liquidated damages. The ICC
has said in a regulation promulgated under the Act that
"[t]he difference between the discount and the full rate
constitutes a carrier's liquidated damages for its collection
effort." 49 CFR § 1320.2(g)(1)(ii) (1994); see 49 U. S. C.
§ 10743(b)(1) (Act authorizes the extension of credit-and
therefore any liquidated damages resulting from the extension of credit-only pursuant to ICC regulations). The regulation is entitled to deference as an interpretation of the
Act. Chevron U S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense
Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984). Thus, the ICC is not
seeking to enforce a secret, unfiled rate in place of a filed
rate, but is seeking to enforce the rate for shipping over the
rate for shipping plus collection efforts. See Hewitt-Robins
Inc. v. EasternFreight-Ways,Inc., 371 U. S., at 88 (enforcing
lower of two filed rates in no manner "hampers the efficient
administration of the Act").
III
The Act by express terms authorizes the ICC to promulgate credit regulations. It also gives the ICC "the power
to seek a federal-court injunction requiring a carrier to comply with [its credit] regulations." Commercial Metals, 456
U. S., at 349 (citation omitted). The injunctive relief sought
by the ICC is both necessary and appropriate to effective
enforcement of its valid credit regulations, and does not
"permi[t] the very price discrimination that the Act by its

Cite as: 513 U. S. 138 (1995)

149

Opinion of the Court

terms seeks to prevent." Maislin, 497 U. S., at 130. The
judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case
is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
It is so ordered.

