OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Per Curiam

AUSTIN v. UNITED STATES
ON MOTION OF THOMAS N. COCHRAN FOR LEAVE TO
WITHDRAW AS COUNSEL FOR PETITIONER
No.

-.

Decided October 31, 1994

Having determined that no meritorious grounds existed for an appeal of
Anthony Austin's criminal conviction, Thomas Cochran, his appointed
counsel, filed a brief in the Fourth Circuit raising only the issue of sentence computation. After the Fourth Circuit affirmed Austin's conviction and sentence, Cochran informed him of his right to petition for
certiorari, but applied to this Court for leave to withdraw as counsel
before the deadline for filing the petition.
Held- Cochran's application is granted. Under a plan adopted pursuant
to the Criminal Justice Act (At), the Fourth Circuit has a Rule governing the duration of service by appointed counsel. Cochran is correct
that the Fourth Circuit Rule imposes a mandatory duty to file a petition
even if the legal arguments are frivolous and, thus, conflicts with this
Court's Rule 42.2, --hich allows an award of damages or costs against
him for fiing such a petition. Nothing in the Act compels counsel to

file papers in contravention of this Court's Rules against frivolous filings. If necessary, the Circuits' Criminal Justice Plans should be revised to allow a lawyer to be relieved of the duty to file a petition for
certiorari that would present only frivolous claims. The Act does not
compel a particular approach. However, from an administrative point
of view, it is preferable for a plan to require that the court of appeals
approve a withdrawal, because attorneys are more likely to avail themselves of this avenue for relief if they have the court's endorsement to
back up their own judgment.
Application granted.
PER CURIAM.

Anthony Austin pleaded guilty to possession of crack cocaine with intent to distribute and was sentenced to 151
months' imprisonment. On appeal to the Fourth Circuit,
Thomas Cochran, who had been appointed as Austin's counsel pursuant to the Criminal Justice Act of 1964, 18 U. S. C.
ยง3006A, submitted a brief in accordance with Anders v. California, 386 U. S. 738 (1967). That brief raised the issue of

AUSTIN v. UNITED STATES
Per Curiam

sentence computation, but concluded that no meritorious issues existed for appeal. The Fourth Circuit affirmed Austin's conviction and sentence. Cochran then informed Austin of the right to petition for certiorari. Austin responded
with a request to file a petition on his behalf. In advance of
the deadline for filing the petition, Cochran applied to this
Court for leave to withdraw as counsel. We grant his
application.
The Criminal Justice Act directs each district court, with
the approval of the judicial council of the Circuit, to implement "a plan for furnishing representation for any person
financially unable to obtain adequate representation." 18
U. S. C. ยง 3006A(a). The Fourth Circuit plan contains a
provision governing the duration of service by appointed
counsel. Specifically, it provides:
"2. Appellate Counsel. Every attorney, including retained counsel, who represents a defendant in this court
shall continue to represent his client after termination
of the appeal unless relieved of further responsibility
by the Supreme Court. Where counsel has not been
relieved:
"If the judgment of this court is adverse to the defendant, counsel shall inform the defendant, in writing, of his
right to petition the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari. If the defendant, in writing, so requests, counsel
shall prepare and file a timely petition for such a writ
and transmit a copy to the defendant. Thereafter, unless otherwise instructed by the Supreme Court or its
clerk, or unless any applicable rule, order or plan of the
Supreme Court shall otherwise provide, counsel shall
take whatever further steps are necessary to protect the
rights of the defendant, until the petition is granted or
denied." 4th Circuit Rules App. II, Rule V.2.
Cochran argues that the Rule subjects him to conflicting obligations. On the one hand, the Rule imposes a mandatory
duty to file a petition even if the legal arguments are frivo-

Cite as: 513 U. S. 5 (1994)
Per Curiam

lous. On the other hand, this Court's Rule 42.2 allows an
award of damages or costs against him if he were to file a
frivolous petition.
As a matter of pure text, Cochran's interpretation is correct. The Fourth Circuit Rule does require the actions of
appointed counsel to comply with this Court's Rules, but only
after the filing of a petition for certiorari. The Rule imposes a very clear mandate to file petitions at the client's
request, evidenced by the command "shall prepare and file."
The Fourth Circuit keeps plenty of company in mandating
representation through the certiorari process, even when it
may run counter to our Rules.' Although the Fourth Circuit Rule provides a mechanism to seek relief from this obli2
gation, Cochran is the first attorney to move for such relief,
indicating that counsel feel encouraged or perhaps bound by
these Rules to file petitions that rest on frivolous claims.
These Circuit Rules may explain, in part, the dramatically
increased number of petitions for certiorari on direct appeal
from federal courts of appeals filed by persons in forma
pauperi.3
' See D. C. Circuit Rules App. VIII, Rule IV ("The duties of representation by counsel on appeal, where the appeal has been unsuccessful, shall
extend to advising the party of the right to file a petition for writ of
certiorari ....
If the party so requests, counsel shall prepare and fle
such a petition") (emphasis added); 3d Circuit Rules Addendum B, Rule
111.6 (same); 5th Circuit Rules App. C, Rule 4 (same); 7th Circuit Rules
App. II, Rule V.3 (same); 8th Circuit Rules App. Rule V (same); 9th Circuit
Rules App. A, ยง4(c) (same); 10th Circuit Rules Addendum I, Rule II.D
(same); 11th Circuit Rules Addendum 4(f)(4) (same).
2Since this Court received Cochran's motion, another attorney has filed
a petition for certiorari raising the same issue. Anderson v. United
States, No. 94-5958.
3For the October 1983 Term, we received 523 petitions for certiorari on
direct review in criminal cases from informa pauperispetitioners in federal courts. That number increased fourfold by the October 1993 Term
with 2,053 petitions. That increase stands in contrast with the increase
in criminal petitions on direct review from state courts-an increase of
only 50% in that same 10-year period.

AUSTIN v. UNITED STATES
Per Curiam

Consistent with the Criminal Justice Act, we have provided by Rule for the payment of counsel appointed by this
Court to represent certain indigent defendants. See Rule
39.7 ("In a case in which certiorari has been granted or jurisdiction has been noted or postponed, this Court may appoint
counsel to represent a party financially unable to afford an
attorney to the extent authorized by the Criminal Justice
Act of 1964, as amended, 18 U. S. C. ยง 3006A"). But nothing
in the Criminal Justice Act compels counsel to file papers in
contravention of this Court's Rules against frivolous filings.
And though indigent defendants pursuing appeals as of right
have a constitutional right to a brief filed on their behalf by
an attorney, Anders v. California,supra, that right does not
extend to forums for discretionary review. Ross v. Moffitt,
417 U. S. 600, 616-617 (1974). Our Rules dealing with the
grounds for granting certiorari, and penalizing frivolous filings, apply equally to petitioners using appointed or retained
counsel. We believe that the Circuit councils should, if necessary, revise their Criminal Justice Plans so that they do
not create any conflict with our Rules. The plan should
allow for relieving a lawyer of the duty to file a petition for
certiorari if the petition would present only frivolous claims.
A few of the Circuits have adopted plans that accommodate this Court's Rules in some fashion. For instance, the
First Circuit only requires appointed counsel to continue
representation at the Supreme Court level if "the person
requests it and there are reasonable grounds for counsel
properly to do so." 1st Circuit Rule 46.5(c). If counsel determines a petition would be frivolous, he must inform the
First Circuit and request leave to withdraw. See also 2d
Circuit Rules App. A, Rule 111.5. The Sixth Circuit takes a
different tack, insulating counsel from violation of its Rules
(though not, of course, from violation of our Rules) so long
as he proceeds according to his best professional judgment,
without resorting to the approval of the appellate court. Its
recently amended Rule states: "Court appointed counsel is

Cite as: 513 U. S. 5 (1994)

9

Per Curiam

obligated to file a petition for a writ of certiorari in the Supreme Court of the United States if the client requests that
such a review be sought and, in counsel's consideredjudgment, there are grounds for seeking Supreme Court review."
6th Circuit Rule 12(f) (emphasis in original). We do not believe that the Criminal Justice Act compels either approach.
From an administrative point of view, however, we think a
plan requiring approval of the court of appeals is preferable,
because attorneys are more likely to avail themselves of this
avenue for relief if they have the endorsement of the court
to back up their own judgment.

