OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

NEBRASKA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE v.
LOEWENSTEIN
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA
No. 93-823.

Argued October 11, 1994-Decided December 12, 1994

Respondent, a Nebraska resident, owns shares in mutual funds (Trusts)
that earn some of their income by participating in "repurchase agreements" (repos) involving federal debt securities. In such a transaction,
the party holding the securities (Seller-Borrower) transfers them to the
Trusts in return for a specified amount of cash. At a later date, the
Trusts deliver the securities back to the Seller-Borrower, who credits
to the Trusts an amount equal to the cash transfer plus interest at an
agreed-upon rate that bears no relation to the yield on the underlying
securities. Ultimately, the Trusts' interest income is distributed to respondent in proportion to his shares in the Trusts. After petitioner
issued a Revenue Ruling concluding that interest income from repos is
subject to Nebraska's income tax, respondent brought this declaratory

judgment action in state court, asking that the Revenue Ruling be de-

clared invalid as contrary to the Supremacy Clause and to 31 U.S. C.
§3124(a), which, in relevant part, exempts from state taxation interest
on "obligations of the United States Government." The court granted
the relief, and the Nebraska Supreme Court affirmed.
Held

1. Nebraska's taxation of the income respondent derived from the
repos does not violate §3124(a). Pp. 128-135.
(a) For purposes of §3124(a), the interest income earned by the
Trusts is interest on loans from the Trusts to the Seller-Borrower, not
interest on federal securities; in this context, the securities are merely
collateral for these loans. Several features of the repos lead to this
conclusion: (1) at a repo's commencement, the Trusts pay the SellerBorrower a fixed sum of money, which is repaid with interest at a rate
bearing no relation to either the coupon interest paid or discount interest accrued on the federal securities during the term of the repo; (2)the
Trusts may liquidate the securities should the Seller-Borrower default
on the debt, but, like a lender, they must pay to the Seller-Borrower
any proceeds in excess of the amount of the debt plus expenses, and
may recover any deficiency from the Seller-Borrower; (3) the market
value of the securities must be maintained at 102% of the original payment amount, with the Seller-Borrower delivering cash or additional
securities if the value falls below 102%, and the Trusts returning securi-

124

NEBRASKA DEPT. OF REVENUE v. LOEWENSTEIN
Syllabus

ties if the value exceeds 102%; and (4) the Seller-Borrower may, during
the term of the repo, substitute federal securities of equal market value
for the securities initially involved in the transaction. The fact that the
Trusts take "delivery" of the federal securities at the repo's commencement also is consistent with understanding the repos as loans, since
"delivery" perfects the Trusts' security interests in their collateral.
Pp. 128-133.
(b) Respondent's two objections to this interpretation of §3124(a)
are unpersuasive. It does not matter that the Trusts and SellerBorrower characterize the repos as sales and repurchases, since the substance and economic realities of the transactions show that the Trusts
receive interest on cash they have lent to the Seller-Borrower. Cf
Frank Lyon Co. v. United States, 435 U. S. 561, 582. And, contrary to
respondent's argument, this case does not involve the construction or validity of the Nebraska income tax statute's add-back rule. Pp. 133-135.
2. Nebraska's taxation of income from repos involving federal securities does not violate the Supremacy Clause. Respondent has pointed
to no statute, revenue ruling, or othei manifestation of Nebraska policy
that treats "state" repos differently from "federal" repos for tax purposes. Nor does the taxation at issue make it more difficult and expensive for the Federal Government to finance the national debt. Expert
testimony referred to by respondent has no relevance to this case, and
respondent has shown no "obvious and appreciable" injury to the Government's borrowing power as a result of Nebraska's taxation of the
Trusts' repo income, see Rockford Life Ins. Co. v. Illinois Dept. of Revenue, 482 U. S. 182, 190, n. 10. Pp. 135-137.
244 Neb. 82, 504 N. W. 2d 800, reversed and remanded.
THOMAS, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

L. Jay Bartel, Assistant Attorney General of Nebraska,
argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs was
Don Stenberg, Attorney General.
Terry R. Wittler argued the cause for respondent.
him on the brief was Larry A. Holle.*

With

*Briefs of amici curiaeurging reversal were filed for the State of California et al. by DanielE.Lungren, Attorney General of California, Timothy
G. Laddish, Assistant Attorney General, Joyce E. Hee, Deputy Attorney
General, and Patrick J. Kusiak, and by the Attorneys General for their
respective jurisdictions as follows: James H. Evans of Alabama, Grant
Woods of Arizona, Charles M. Oberly III of Delaware, Roland W. Burris

Cite as: 513 U. S. 123 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
We took this case to decide whether States may tax interest income derived from repurchase agreements involving
federal securities. If the income that taxpayers earn by
participating in such agreements constitutes interest on
federal securities, then the taxation violates 31 U. S. C.
§3124(a, which exempts interest on "obligations of the
United States Government" from taxation by States. On
the other hand, if that income constitutes interest on loans to
a private party, the taxation is not prohibited by the statute.
With respect to the repurchase agreements at issue in this
case, we conclude that for purposes of § 3124(a), the interest
earned by taxpayers is interest on loans to a private party,
not interest on federal securities. Accordingly, we hold that
§ 3124(a) does not prohibit States from taxing such income.
JUSTICE THOMAS

"

I

Respondent is a Nebraska resident who owns shares in
two mutual funds, the Trust for Short-Term U. S. Government Securities and the Trust for U. S. Treasury Obligations
(Trusts). The Trusts earn a portion of their income by participating in "repurchase agreements" that involve debt securities issued by the United States Government and its agenof Illinois, Pamela Carterof Indiana, Chris Gorman of Kentucky, Richard
P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J Joseph Curran,Jr., of Maryland, Scott Harshbarger of Massachusetts, Frank J.Kelley of Michigan, Jeffrey R. Howard
of New Hampshire, Deborah T Poritz of New Jersey, Tom Udall of New
Mexico, G. Oliver Koppell of New York, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota,
Susan Brimer Loving of Oklahoma, Theodore R. Kulongoski of Oregon,
Jan Graham of Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, James S. Gilmore

III of Virginia, and James E. Doyle of Wisconsin; and for the Council of
State Governments et al. by Richard Ruda and Lee Fennell.
, Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for The Dreyfus
Corporation by Jeffrey S. Sion; and for the Investment Company Institute
by Albert G. Lauber, Jr., Paul Schott Stevens, and CatherineHeron.
Thomas C. Baxter, Jr., filed a brief for the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York as amicus curiae.

126

NEBRASKA DEPT. OF REVENUE v. LOEWENSTEIN
Opinion of the Court

cies (federal securities). A typical repurchase agreement
used by the Trusts, see App. 65-81, establishes a two-part
transaction, commonly called a "repo," between a party who
holds federal securities and seeks cash (Seller-Borrower) and
a party who has available cash and seeks to earn interest on
its idle funds (in this case, the Trusts). In part one of the
repo, the Seller-Borrower "transfers" specified federal securities to the Trusts on the records of the Federal Reserve
System's commercial book-entry system. Simultaneously,
the Trusts transfer a specified amount of cash to the SellerBorrower's bank account.
In part two of the transaction-which occurs at a later
date fixed by agreement or, in the absence of any agreement,
upon demand of either party-the Trusts "deliver" the federal securities back to the Seller-Borrower on the Federal
Reserve's records, and the Seller-Borrower credits the
Trusts' bank account in an amount equal to the sum of the
original cash transfer plus "interest" at an agreed-upon rate.
This interest rate bears no relation to the yield on the underlying federal securities-either when they were issued by
the United States Government or when they later came into
the hands of the Seller-Borrower-but is based instead on
the current market rate paid on investments with maturities
equal to the term of the repo, not to the original or current
maturities of the underlying securities.1
After deducting administrative costs, the Trusts distribute
this interest income to respondent in proportion to his ownership of shares in the Trusts. The State of Nebraska generally taxes interest income, but it does not tax "interest or
dividends received by the owner of obligations of the United
1

A repurchase agreement is so called because the parties to the agreement identify part one of the transaction as a "sale" of federal securities
from the Seller-Borrower to the Trusts and part two a "repurchase" of
the securities by the Seller-Borrower from the Trusts. Because the accuracy of these labels is part of the dispute in this case, we use more neutral
terms to describe the transaction.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 123 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

States . .. but exempt from state income taxes under the
laws of the United States." Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2716(1)(a)
(Supp. 1994). For purposes of Nebraska's income tax law, if
interest would be exempt from tax in the hands of the
Trusts, then respondent's proportionate share of such interest will be exempt. § 77-2716(1)(b).
A decade ago petitioner considered whether the interest
income derived from repurchase agreements involving federal securities and then distributed to respondent and similarly situated individuals was subject to Nebraska's income
tax. Petitioner concluded that it was. Neb. Rev. Rul. 2285-1, Brief for Petitioner 4-5, n. 1. In 1988, respondent
brought a declaratory judgment action in the District Court
of Lancaster County, Nebraska, asking that Revenue Ruling
22-85-1 be declared invalid as contrary to 31 U.S. C.
§ 3124(a) and the Supremacy Clause of the United States
Constitution. The District Court granted the requested relief. On appeal, the Supreme Court of Nebraska affirmed,
concluding that "the income received by [respondent] from
repo transactions executed by the [T]rusts involving federal
securities is exempt from state taxation under § 3124."
Loewenstein v. State, 244 Neb. 82, 90, 504 N. W. 2d 800, 805
(1993).
As the Nebraska Supreme Court itself acknowledged, see
id., at 88-90, 504 N. W. 2d, at 804-805, several state courts
have reached directly contrary conclusions,2 and two Federal
2

See Hammond Lead Products, Inc. v. State Tax Commissioners, 575
N. E. 2d 998 (Ind. 1991); Department of Revenue v. Page, 541 So. 2d 1270
(Fla. App. 1989); Capital PreservationFund, Inc. v. Wisconsin Dept. of
Revenue, 145 Wis. 2d 841, 429 N. W. 2d 551 (App. 1988); Andras v. Illinois
Dept. of Revenue, 154 Ill. App. 3d 37, 506 N. E. 2d 439 (1987), cert. denied,
485 U. S.960 (1988).

As Justice Caporale pointed out in dissent below, see 244 Neb., at 91-92,
504 N. W. 2d, at 806, at least five other state courts also have reached a
result contrary to that of the majority. See Everett v. State Dept. of Revenue and Finance,470 N. W. 2d 13 (Iowa 1991); Comptrollerof the Treasury, Income Tax Div. v. First United Bank & Trust, 320 Md. 352, 578

128

NEBRASKA DEPT. OF REVENUE v. LOEWENSTEIN
Opinion of the Court

Courts of Appeals have ruled that interest income derived
from repos involving municipal bonds is not exempt from
federal taxation under § 103(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue
Code.3 We granted certiorari to resolve this conflict, 510
U. S. 1176 (1994), and we now reverse.
II
We begin with the text of 31 U. S. C. § 3124(a). It provides in relevant part:
"[O]bligations of the United States Government are exempt from taxation by a State or political subdivision of
a State. The exemption applies to each form of taxation that would require the obligation, the interest on
the obligation, or both, to be considered in computing a
tax .... "
Under this provision, a state tax may consider neither the
federal "obligation" itself nor the "interest on the obligation." The obligation itself is "considered" when its value is
"taken into account, or included in the accounting," AmeriA. 2d 192 (1990); Borg v. Department of Revenue of Oregon, 308 Ore. 34,
774 P. 2d 1099 (1989); Massman Constr. Co. v. Director of Revenue of
Missouri, 765 S. W, 2d 592 (Mo. 1989); In re Sawyer Estate, 149 Vt. 541,
546 A. 2d 784 (1987). Accord, H. J. Heinz Co. v. Department of Treasury,
197 Mich. App. 210,494 N. W. 2d 850 (1992) (distinguishing Matz v. Department of Treasury, 155 Mich. App. 778, 401 N. W. 2d 62 (1986) (per
curiam)).
3

See Union PlantersNat. Bank of Memphis v. United States, 426 F. 2d

115 (CA6), cert. denied, 400 U. S. 827 (1970); American Nat. Bank of Austin v. United States, 421 F. 2d 442 (CA5), cert. denied, 400 U. S. 819 (1970).

Accord, FirstAmerican Nat. Bank of Nashville v. United States, 467 F. 2d
1098 (CA6 1972) (per curiam). Cf. Citizens Nat. Bank of Waco v. United
States, 213 Ct. Cl. 236, 248-251, 551 F. 2d 832, 839-840 (1977) (agreeing
that these decisions were correct, but distinguishing them on the facts of
the case).
The Internal Revenue Service also has concluded that a taxpayer in
the position of the Trusts who derives interest income by participating in
repurchase agreements does not earn interest on the securities involved
in those agreements. See Rev. Rul. 74-27, 1974-1 Cum. Bull. 24; Rev.
Rul. 77-59, 1977-1 Cum. Bull. 196; Rev. Rul. 79-108, 1979-1 Cum. Bull. 75.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 123 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

can Bank & Trust Co. v. Dallas County, 463 U. S. 855, 862
(1983), in computing the taxable value of a taxpayer's assets
or net worth for the purpose of a property tax or the like.
See, e. g., First Nat. Bank of Atlanta v. Bartow County Bd.
of Tax Assessors, 470 U. S. 583, 585-586 (1985).(property tax
on bank shares). By contrast, the interest on the obligation
is "considered" when that interest is included in computing
the taxpayer's net income or earnings for the purpose of an
income tax or the like. See, e. g., Memphis Bank & Trust
Co. v. Garner,459 U. S. 392, 393-394 (1983) (tax on net earnings of banks).
By participating in repos involving federal securities, the
Trusts (and thus respondent) earned interest income, and
Nebraska's income tax admittedly considered that interest
in computing respondent's taxable income. We must decide
whether for purposes of § 3124(a) the interest earned by the
Trusts from these repos is interest on "obligations of the
United States Government" or interest on loans of cash from
the Trusts to the Seller-Borrower. We conclude that it is
the latter, and we accordingly hold that Nebraska's taxation
of the income derived by respondent from the repos does not
violate § 3124(a).
An investor may earn interest income from a federal security in one or both of two ways. First, the investor may
receive periodic payments from the United States Government at the interest rate stated on the face of the security.
Such payments are traditionally known as "coupon interest."
Second, the investor may acquire the security at a discount
from the amount for which it will ultimately be redeemed by
the Government at maturity. This discount is also considered interest for purposes of taxation.4 Although "discount
4For example, Treasury notes and bonds, which have maturities of at
least one year, pay coupon interest on a semiannual basis and may be
issued at discount, par (face amount), or premium, depending on market
conditions. See 31 CFR §§356.5(b), (c), 356.30 (1994). Treasury bills, by
contrast, have maturities of not more than one year, pay no coupon interest, and are always issued at a discount. See §356.5(a). "For purposes

130

NEBRASKA DEPT. OF REVENUE v. LOEWENSTEIN
Opinion of the Court

interest" accrues during the term of the security, the investor does not receive it in cash until the security is redeemed
or transferred to a third party.
Our examination of the typical repurchase agreement used
by the Trusts convinces us that they did not earn either kind
of interest on federal securities. Certainly, none of the income the Trusts earn by participating in repos can be attributed to redemptions of the securities or payments of coupon
interest by the Government: The Trusts must "pay over to
[the Seller-Borrower] as soon as received all principal, interest and other sums paid by or on behalf of the issuer
in respect of the Securities and collected by the [Trusts]."
App. 69.
Nor can we conclude that the Trusts receive discount interest when the federal securities are transferred back to the
Seller-Borrower in part two of the repo. Under the typical
repurchase agreement, any individual repo transaction may
involve a mix of federal securities with varying maturities,
and therefore varying yields. During the term of the repo,
these securities earn discount interest based on their respective yields (and on whether they pay coupon interest). The
Trusts, however, earn interest from the Seller-Borrower at
an agreed-upon rate that is not based on any of these yields,
or any combination of them. Thus, the interest that the
Trusts earn by participating in the repo will bear no relation
to the discount interest earned on federal securities during
the same period.
We conclude instead that for purposes of §3124(a), the interest income earned by the Trusts is interest on loans from
the Trusts to the Seller-Borrower, and that the federal securities are involved in the repo transactions as collateral for
of taxation the amount of discount at which Treasury bills are originally
sold by the United States shall be considered to be interest." §309.4.
See generally M. Stigum, The Money Market 36-37 (3d ed. 1990) (hereinafter Stigum).

Cite as: 513 U. S. 123 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

these loans. Several features of the repos lead to this conclusion. First, at the commencement of a repo, the Trusts
pay the Seller-Borrower a fixed sum of money; at the repo's
termination, the Seller-Borrower repays that sum with "interest." As explained above, this repo interest bears no
relation to either the coupon interest paid or the discount
interest accrued on the federal securities during the term
of the repo.
Second, if the Seller-Borrower defaults on its obligation to
pay its debt, the Trusts may liquidate the federal securities.
But like any lender who liquidates collateral, the Trusts may
retain the proceeds of liquidation only up to the amount of
the debt plus expenses; any excess must be paid to the
Seller-Borrower. Moreover, if the proceeds are insufficient
to satisfy the debt, the Trusts may recover the deficiency
from the Seller-Borrower.
Third, if the market value of the federal securities involved
in the repo falls below 102% of the amount the Trusts originally paid to the Seller-Borrower, the latter must immediately deliver cash or additional securities to the Trusts to
restore the value of the securities held by the Trusts to 102%
of the original payment amount. On the other hand, if the
market value of the securities rises above 102% of this
amount, the Seller-Borrower may require the Trusts to return some of the securities to the Seller-Borrower. These
provisions are consistent with a lender-borrower relationship
in which a prudent lender desires to protect the value of its
collateral, while a prudent borrower attempts to pledge as
little collateral as possible.
Fourth, the Seller-Borrower may, during the term of the
repo, "substitute" federal securities of equal market value
for the federal securities initially involved in the transaction.
A lender, of course, is indifferent to the particular collateral
pledged by the borrower, so long as that collateral has sufficient value and liquidity.

132

NEBRASKA DEPT. OF REVENUE v. LOEWENSTEIN
Opinion of the Court

The parties have stipulated that the Trusts (or their
agents) take "Delivery" of the federal securities at the commencement of a repo. App. 63. But even this fact is consistent with understanding repos as loans of cash from the
Trusts to the Seller-Borrower: "Delivery" of the securities
perfects the Trusts' security interests in their collateral.
Under the most recent version of § 8-321(1) of the Uniform
Commercial Code (U. C. C.), "[a] security interest in a security is enforceable and can attach only if it is transferred to
the secured party.., pursuant to a provision of [§] 8-313(1)."
2C U. L. A. 459 (1991). Section 8-313(1)(a) provides that
transfer of a security interest in a security occurs when the
secured party "acquires possession of a certificated security."' 5 Id., at 402. Of course, possession of the federal
securities allows the Trusts to effect an expeditious, nonjudicial liquidation of the securities if the Seller-Borrower defaults. Cf. U. C. C. § 9-504(1), 3B U. L. A. 127 (1992). The
ability to liquidate immediately is obviously critical in the
context of repo transactions, which may have a lifespan of
only a single day.
Based on the foregoing analysis, we conclude that the interest income earned by the Trusts from repurchase agreements involving federal securities is not interest on "obligations of the United States Government." For purposes of
31 U. S. C. §3124(a), the income is instead interest on loans
from the Trusts to the Seller-Borrower. Because §3124(a)
exempts only the former type of interest from state taxation,
' The parties have also stipulated that delivery of the federal securities
is effected "through the Federal Reserve book entry system." App. 63.
Although securities held in that system exist not in the form of certificates
but only as entries in the records of a Federal Reserve bank, see generally
Stigum 636-638, regulations issued by the Treasury Department and
other federal agencies indulge in the fiction that transferees acquire possession of certificated securities. See, e.g., 31 CFR § 306.118(a) (1994)
(transfer of Treasury notes and bonds); §350.4(a) (transfer of Treasury
bills). Of course, these regulations and their relationship to the U. C. C.
are not before us here.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 123 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Nebraska did not violate that statute when it taxed respond6
ent's interest income.
III
Respondent offers two objections to this interpretation of
§ 3124(a). We find neither of them persuasive.
A
The typical repurchase agreement at issue in this case explicitly identifies the original transfer of the federal securities to the Trusts as a "sale" and the subsequent transfer
back to the Seller-Borrower as a "repurchase." Respondent
maintains we should honor this characterization because
the repos were structured by the Trusts and the SellerBorrower as sales and repurchases for valid business and
regulatory reasons independent of tax considerations. Respondent relies on our statement in Frank Lyon Co. v.
United States, 435 U. S. 561, 583-584 (1978):
"[W]here ... there is a genuine multiple-party transaction with economic substance which is compelled or
encouraged by business or regulatory realities, is imbued with tax-independent considerations, and is not
shaped solely by tax-avoidance features that have meaningless labels attached, the Government should honor
the allocation of rights and duties effectuated by the
parties."
We do not believe it matters for purposes of §3124(a)
whether the repo is characterized as a sale and subsequent

repurchase. A sale-repurchase characterization presumably
would make the Trusts the "owners" of the federal securities
6

It follows from our analysis that it is the Seller-Borrower who earns

the interest on the federal securities during the pendency of the repo.
Nebraska Revenue Ruling 22-85-1 concludes as much: "The interest
earned on the United States government obligations remains the income
of the [party] who submitted the securities as collateral for the loan."
Brief for Petitioner 4-5, n. 1.

134

NEBRASKA DEPT. OF REVENUE v. LOEWENSTEIN
Opinion of the Court

during the term of the repo. But the dispositive question
is whether the Trusts earned interest on "obligations of
the United States Government," not whether the Trusts
"owned" such obligations. As respondent himself concedes,
"[t]he concept of 'ownership' is simply not an issue under 31
U. S. C. § 3124." Brief for Respondent 10.
Even if it did matter how repos were characterized for
purposes of §3124(a), Frank Lyon Co. does not support respondent's position. Whatever the language relied on by respondent may mean, our decision in that case to honor the
taxpayer's characterization of its transaction as a "sale-andleaseback" rather than a "financing transaction" was founded
on an examination of "the substance and economic realities
of the transaction." 435 U. S., at 582. This examination included identification of 27 specific facts. See id., at 582-583.
The substance and economic realities of the Trusts' repo
transactions, as manifested in the specific facts discussed
above, are that the Trusts do not receive either coupon interest or discount interest from federal securities by participating in repos. Rather, in economic reality, the Trusts receive
interest on cash they have lent to the Seller-Borrower.
Respondent does not specifically dispute this conclusion
but argues that repos are characterized as ordinary sales and
repurchases for purposes of federal securities, bankruptcy,
and banking law as well as commercial and local government
law. We need not examine the accuracy of these assertions,
for we are not called upon in this case to interpret any of
those bodies of law. Our decision today is an interpretation
only of 31 U. S. C. § 3124(a)-not the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Bankruptcy Code, or any other body of law.
B
At oral argument, respondent advanced another argument
against the interpretation of §3124(a) adopted here: Although petitioner's Revenue Ruling nominally acknowledges
the right of the Seller-Borrower to claim the exemption
granted by § 3124(a), Nebraska's income tax scheme will not

Cite as: 513 U. S. 123 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

allow the Seller-Borrower to realize the full amount of the
federal exemption. This would allegedly frustrate Congress' purpose in granting the exemption. According to respondent, after the Seller-Borrower has subtracted from its
taxable income any "interest or dividends received by [it as]
the owner of obligations of the United States," pursuant to
subsection (a) of Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2716(1) (Supp. 1994), it
will then be forced to add back "any interest on indebtedness
incurred to carry the [federal] obligations," pursuant to subsection (e)(i) of § 77-2716(1). Respondent conjectures that
the interest paid by the Seller-Borrower to the Trusts in the
course of repos may constitute just such interest. Respondent therefore hypothesizes that if the Seller-Borrower receives, for example, $100 in interest as the holder of federal
securities and pays out $90 to the Trusts in the course of
repos involving those securities, Nebraska might give the
Seller-Borrower an income tax exemption worth only $10
($100 minus $90), rather than the $100 exemption that Congress arguably intended.
There is a short answer to respondent's multilayered

hypothesis: tW case does not involve the construction or
validity of Nebraska's add-back rule as applied in the repo
context. The Nebraska Supreme Court did not cite § 772716(1)(e)(i) in its opinion, and we did not grant certiorari to
consider that provision.
IV
Finally, respondent argues that Nebraska's taxation of
income from repos involving federal securities violates the
Supremacy Clause of the Constitution. First, respondent
contends that Nebraska discriminates against federal obligations because it does not tax income from repos involving Nebraska's own state and local obligations. Although
Nebraska Revenue Ruling 22-85-1 concerns repos involving
"federal government obligations" and does not mention their
Nebraska counterparts, respondent has pointed to no statute, revenue ruling, or other manifestation of Nebraska pol-

136

NEBRASKA DEPT. OF REVENUE v. LOEWENSTEIN
Opinion of the Court

icy treating "state" repos any different from "federal" repos
for tax purposes.
Second, respondent cites our decision in Rockford Life Ins.
Co. v. Illinois Dept. of Revenue, 482 U. S. 182, 190 (1987), in
which we stated that "the intergovernmental tax immunity
doctrine ... is based on the proposition that the borrowing
power is an essential aspect of the Federal Government's authority and, just as the Supremacy Clause bars the States
from directly taxing federal property, it also bars the States
from taxing federal obligations in a manner which has an
adverse effect on the United States' borrowing ability." According to respondent, undisputed expert testimony in the
record establishes that the taxation at issue in this case will
make it more difficult and expensive for the Federal Government to finance the national debt.
This expert testimony essentially consists of a 1986 affidavit sworn by Peter D. Sternlight, a former official of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In our view, Sternlight's affidavit has no relevance to this case. It concluded
only that "an impairment of the repo market would make it
less attractive for [government securities] dealers to perform
[their] very useful ... function [of underwriting a sizeable
portion of Treasury securities], thus adding to Treasury interest costs." App. 42. But the "impairment" that worried
Sternlight would result "[i]f repurchase agreements were to
lose their present characteristics of flexibility and liquidity,"
or if repos became "unavailable" to certain kinds of public
and private institutional investors. Id., at 42, 43. These
possibilities might develop if repos were to be characterized
as secured loans for purposes of federal bankruptcy and
banking law or of commercial and local government law.
Our decision today, however, says nothing about how repos
should be characterized for those purposes.'
7See also Brief for Federal Reserve Bank of New York as Amicus Curiae 9-10 ("The Sternlight Affidavit was filed by the New York Fed in
1986 as amicus curiae in [a case] which had nothing to do with state

Cite as: 513 U. S. 123 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Disregarding the inapplicable Sternlight affidavit, we find
no evidence in the record that the taxation at issue will impair the market in federal securities or otherwise impair the
borrowing ability of the Federal Government. Rockford
Life confirmed the rule that "'when effort is made ...to
establish the unconstitutional character of a particular tax
by claiming its remote effect will be to impair the borrowing
power of the government, courts ... ought to have something more substantial to act upon than mere conjecture.
The injury ought to be obvious and appreciable."' 482 U. S.,
at 190, n. 10 (quoting Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115, 137138 (1900)). Respondent has shown us no "obvious and
appreciable" injury to the borrowing power of the United
States Government as a result of Nebraska's taxation of the
repo income earned by the Trusts. Rather, he has given

us "mere conjecture." In these circumstances, we cannot
justifiably conclude that Nebraska's taxation of income derived from repos involving federal securities violates the
Supremacy Clause of the Constitution.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska is reversed, and the case is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

taxation of repo income.... Mr. Sternlight did not opine on the economic
effect of state taxation of repo transaction income on [the market for] the
underlying government securities"); Hearings on H. R. 2852 and H. R.
3418 before the Subcommittee on Monopolies and Commercial Law of the
House Committee on the Judiciary, 98th Cong., 2d Sess., 106-107 (1984)
(letter of Peter D. Sternlight) ("[Wihile the Federal Reserve has gone on
record as favoring purchase-and-sale characterization of repurchase agreements, that statement is limited to a bankruptcy context and should not
be taken as an endorsement of purchase-and-sale characterizationfor
tax, accounting,or other purposes" (emphasis added)).

