OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

SCHLUP v. DELO, SUPERINTENDENT, POTOSI
CORRECTIONAL CENTER
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT
No. 93-7901.

Argued October 3, 1994-Decided January 23, 1995

Petitioner Schlup, a Missouri prisoner, was convicted of participating in
the murder of a fellow inmate and sentenced to death. In this, his second federal habeas petition, he alleged that constitutional error at his
trial deprived the jury of critical evidence that would have established
his innocence. The District Court declined to reach the petition's merits, holding that Schlup could not satisfy the threshold showing of "actual innocence" required by Sawyer v. Whitley, 505 U. S. 333, 336, under
which a petitioner must demonstrate "by clear and convincing evidence
that, but for a constitutional error, no reasonable juror would have
found" him guilty.
Held, The standard of Murray v. Carrier,477 U. S. 478-which requires
a habeas petitioner to show that "a constitutional violation has probably
resulted in the conviction of one who is actually innocent," id., at 496rather than the more stringent Sawyer standard, governs the miscarriage of justice inquiry when a petitioner who has been sentenced to
death raises a claim of actual innocence to avoid a procedural bar to the
consideration of the merits of his constitutional claims. Pp. 313-332.
(a) In contrast to the actual innocence claim asserted in Herrerav.
Collins, 506 U. S. 390-that the execution of an innocent person convicted in an error-free trial violates the Eighth Amendment-Schlup's
claim is accompanied by an assertion of constitutional error at trial: the
ineffectiveness of his counsel and the withholding of evidence by the
prosecution. As such, his conviction may not be entitled to the same
degree of respect as one that is the product of an error-free trial, and
his evidence of innocence need carry less of a burden. In Herrera,the
evidence of innocence would have had to be strong enough to make the
execution "constitutionally intolerable" even if the conviction was the
product of a fair trial, while here the evidence must establish sufficient
doubt about Schlup's guilt to justify the conclusion that his execution
would be a miscarriage of justice unless his conviction was the product
of a fair trial. Pp. 313-317.
(b) The societal interests in finality, comity, and conservation of scarce

judicial resources dictate that a habeas court may not ordinarily reach
the merits of successive or abusive claims, absent a showing of cause

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Syllabus
and prejudice. However, since habeas corpus is, at its core, an equitable remedy, a court must adjudicate even successive claims when required to do so by the ends of justice. Thus, in a trio of cases, this
Court firmly established an exception for fundamental miscarriages of
justice. Carrier,477 U. S., at 495; Kuhlmann v. Wilson, 477 U. S. 436;
Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S. 527. To ensure that the fundamental miscarriage of justice exception would remain "rare" and be applied only in
the "extraordinary case," while at the same time ensuring that relief
would be extended to those who are truly deserving, the Court has
explicitly tied the exception to the petitioner's innocence. Carrierand
Kuhlmann also expressed the standard of proof that should govern
consideration of such claims: The petitioner must show that the constitutional error "probably" resulted in the conviction of one who was
actually innocent. The Sawyer Court made no attempt to reconcile its
more exacting standard of proof with Carrier's use of "probably."
Pp. 317-323.
(c) Carrier,rather than Sawyer, properly strikes the balance between
the societal interests and the individual interest in justice, when the
claimed injustice is that constitutional error has resulted in the conviction of one who is actually innocent. Though challenges to the propriety of imposing a death sentence are routinely asserted in capital cases,
a substantial claim that constitutional error has caused the conviction of
an innocent person is extremely rare and must be supported by new
reliable evidence that was not presented at trial, evidence obviously
unavailable in the vast majority of cases. Thus, the threat to judicial
resources, finality, and comity posed by actual innocence claims is significantly less than that posed by sentencing claims. More importantly,
the individual interest in avoiding injustice is most compelling in the
context of actual innocence, since the quintessential miscarriage of justice is the execution of an innocent person. The less exacting Carrier
standard of proof reflects the relative importance attached to the ultimate decision. Application of the stricter Sawyer standard would give
insufficient weight to the correspondingly greater injustice that is implicated by an actual innocence claim. Pp. 323-327.
(d) To satisfy Carrier's"actual innocence" standard, a petitioner must
show that, in light of the new evidence, it is more likely than not that
no reasonable juror would have found him guilty beyond a reasonable
doubt. The focus on actual innocence means that a district court is not
bound by the admissibility rules that would govern at trial, but may
consider the probative force of relevant evidence that was either
wrongly excluded or unavailable at trial. The district court must make
a probabilistic determination about what reasonable, properly instructed jurors would do, and it is presumed that a reasonable juror

SCHLUP v. DELO
Syllabus
would consider fairly all of the evidence presented and would conscientiously obey the trial court's instructions requiring proof beyond a reasonable doubt. The Carrierstandard, although requiring a substantial
showing, is by no means equivalent to the standard governing review
of insufficient evidence claims. Jackson v. Virginia,443 U. S. 307, distinguished. In applying the Carrierstandard to Schlup's request for
an evidentiary hearing, the District Court must assess the probative
force of the newly presented evidence in connection with the evidence
of guilt adduced at trial. The court is not required to test the new
evidence by a standard appropriate for deciding a motion for summary
judgment, but may consider how the submission's timing and the affiants' likely credibility bear on the probable reliability of that evidence.
Pp. 327-332.
11 F. 3d 738, vacated and remanded.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'CoNNOR,
and BREYER, JJ., joined. O'CONNOR, J., filed a con-

SOUTER, GINSBURG,

curring opinion, post, p. 332.

REHNQUIST, C. J., filed a dissenting opinion,

in which KENNEDY and THOMAS, JJ., joined, post, p; 334.

SCALIA, J., filed

a dissenting opinion, in which THOMAS, J., joined, post, p. 342.

Sean D. O'Brien argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Anthony G. Amsterdam, Randy
Hertz, and Timothy K. Ford.
Jeremiah W (Jay) Nixon, Attorney General of Missouri,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief
were Stephen D. Hawke and Frank A. Jung, Assistant Attorneys General.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
California et al. by Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General of California,
George Williamson, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Dane R. Gillette,
Deputy Attorney General, and Mark L. Krotoski, Special Assistant Attorney General, James H. Evans, Attorney General of Alabama, Bruce M.
Botelho, Attorney General of Alaska, Grant Woods, Attorney General of
Arizona, Gale A Norton, Attorney General of Colorado, John M. Bailey,
Chief State's Attorney of Connecticut, Charles M. Oberly III, Attorney
General of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth, Attorney General of Florida,
Larry EchoHawk, Attorney General of Idaho, Roland W. Burris,Attorney
General of Illinois, Chris Gorman, Attorney General of Kentucky, Richard
P. Ieyoub, Attorney General of Louisiana, Mike Moore, Attorney General
of Mississippi, Joseph P Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, Don

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner Lloyd E. Schlup, Jr., a Missouri prisoner currently under a sentence of death, filed a second federal
habeas corpus petition alleging that constitutional error deprived the jury of critical evidence that would have established his innocence. The District Court, without conducting an evidentiary hearing, declined to reach the merits of
the petition, holding that petitioner could not satisfy the
threshold showing of "actual innocence" required by Sawyer
v. Whitley, 505 U. S. 333 (1992). Under Sawyer, the petitioner must show "by clear and convincing evidence that, but
for a constitutional error, no reasonable juror would have
found the petitioner" guilty. Id., at 336. The Court of Appeals affirmed. We granted certiorari to consider whether
the Sawyer standard provides adequate protection against
the kind of miscarriage of justice that would result from the
execution of a person who is actually innocent.

On February 3, 1984, on Walk 1 of the high security area
of the Missouri State Penitentiary, a black inmate named Arthur Dade was stabbed to death. Three white inmates from
Stenberg, Attorney General of Nebraska, FrankieSue Del Papa,Attorney
General of Nevada, Deborah T Poritz, Attorney General of New Jersey,
Thm Udall; Attorney General of New Mexico, Michael F.Easley, Attorney
General of North Carolina, Lee Fisher,Attorney General of Ohio, Susan
B. Loving, Attorney General of Oklahoma, Ernest D. Preate,Jr., Attorney
General of Pennsylvania, T Travis Medlock, Attorney General of South
Carolina, Mark Barnett, Attorney General of South Dakota, Charles W.
Burson, Attorney General of Tennessee, Dan Morales, Attorney General
of Texas, Jan Graham, Attorney General of Utah, James S. Gilmore III,
Attorney General of Virginia, and Joseph B. Meyer, Attorney General of
Wyoming; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S.
Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson.
Harold R. Tyler, Jr., and Eric M. Freedmanfiled a brief of amici curiae

for Five Innocent Former Death Row Inmates et al.

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

Walk 2, including petitioner, were charged in connection with
Dade's murder.
At petitioner's trial in December 1985, the State's evidence
consisted principally of the testimony of two corrections officers who had witnessed the killing. On the day of the murder, Sergeant Roger Flowers was on duty on Walk 1 and
Walk 2, the two walks on the lower floor of the prison's high
security area. Flowers testified that he first released the
inmates on Walk 2 for their noon meal and relocked their
cells. After unlocking the cells to release the inmates on
Walk 1, Flowers noticed an inmate named Rodnie Stewart
moving against the flow of traffic carrying a container of
steaming liquid. Flowers watched as Stewart threw the
liquid in Dade's face. According to Flowers, Schlup then
jumped on Dade's back, and Robert O'Neal joined in the attack. Flowers shouted for help, entered the walk, and
grabbed Stewart as the two other assailants fled.
Officer John Maylee witnessed the attack from Walk 7,
which is three levels and some 40-50 feet above Walks 1 and
2.1 Maylee first noticed Schlup, Stewart, and O'Neal as they
were running from Walk 2 to Walk 1 against the flow of traf-

fic. According to Maylee's testimony, Stewart threw a container of liquid at Dade's face, and then Schlup jumped on
Dade's back. O'Neal then stabbed Dade several times in
the chest, ran down the walk, and threw the weapon out a
window. Maylee did not see what happened to Schlup or
Stewart after the stabbing.
The State produced no physical evidence connecting
Schlup to the killing, and no witness other than Flowers and
Maylee testified to Schlup's involvement in the murder.2
IMaylee was unavailable to testify at Schlup's trial. Testimony from
Maylee's pretrial deposition was admitted in evidence and was read to
the jury.
2In contrast, the evidence of the involvement of Stewart and O'Neal in
Dade's murder was substantial. Stewart, for example, was apprehended

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Schlup's defense was that the State had the wrong man.'
He relied heavily on a videotape from a camera in the prisoners' dining room. The tape showed that Schlup was the first
inmate to walk into the dining room for the noon meal, and
that he went through the line and got his food. Approximately 65 seconds after Schlup's entrance, several guards
ran out of the dining room in apparent response to a distress
call. Twenty-six seconds later, O'Neal ran into the dining

room, dripping blood.4 Shortly thereafter, Schlup and
O'Neal were taken into custody.

Schlup contended that the videotape, when considered in
conjunction with testimony that he had walked at a normal
pace from his cell to the dining room,' demonstrated that
he could not have participated in the assault. Because the
videotape showed conclusively that Schlup was in the dining
room 65 seconds before the guards responded to the distress
call, a critical element of Schlup's defense was determining when the distress call went out. Had the distress call
sounded shortly after the murder, Schlup would not have
had time to get from the prison floor to the dining room, and
by Flowers during the struggle itself. And when O'Neal was taken into
custody, his clothes were covered with blood and he was bleeding from
lacerations on his right hand.
8Schlup did not testify at the guilt phase of the trial. At the sentencing
hearing, Schlup did testify and maintained his innocence of the offense.
He continued to maintain his innocence even after the jury had sentenced
him to death.
4After stabbing Dade, O'Neal broke a window with his hand and threw
the knife out the window. That resulted in multiple lacerations to his
right hand. Before leaving the prison floor, O'Neal paused briefly at a
utilities sink on Walk 2 to try to wash off the blood, and then continued
on to the dining room.
O'Neal was followed into the dining room by inmate Randy Jordan, who
is identified in some affidavits attesting to petitioner's innocence as the
third participant in the crime. See infra, at 308-309. However, Jordan's
name was not mentioned at Schlup's trial.
5Schlup's cell was at the end of Walk 2, closest to the dining room.

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

thus he could not have participated in the murder. Conversely, had there been a delay of several minutes between
the murder and the distress call, Schlup might have had sufficient time to participate in the murder and still get to the
dining room over a minute before the distress call went out.'
The prosecutor adduced evidence tending to establish that
such a delay had in fact occurred. First, Flowers testified
that none of the officers on the prison floor had radios, thus
implying that neither he nor any of the other officers on the
floor was able to radio for help when the stabbing occurred.
Second, Flowers testified that after he shouted for help, it
took him "a couple [of] minutes" to subdue Stewart. 7 Flow-

ers then brought Stewart downstairs, encountered Captain
James Eberle, and told Eberle that there had been a "disturbance."" Eberle testified that he went upstairs. to the
prison floor, and then radioed for assistance. 'Eberle estimated that the elapsed time from when he first saw Flowers
6

A necessary element of Schlup's defense was that Flowers and Maylee
were mistaken in their identification of Schlup as one of the participants
in the murder. Schlup suggested that Flowers had taken a visitor to
Schlup's cell just 30 minutes before the murder. Schlup argued that
Flowers had therefore had Schlup "on the brain," Trial Tr. 493-494, thus
explaining why, in the confusion surrounding the murder, Flowers might
have mistakenly believed that he had seen Schlup.
Schlup argued that Maylee's identification was suspect because Maylee
was three floors away from the murder and did not have an unobstructed
view of the murder scene. Schlup further suggested that Maylee's identification of Schlup had been influenced by a postincident conversation between Maylee and another officer who had talked to Flowers.
Schlup also argued that there were inconsistencies between the description of the murder provided by Flowers and that provided by Maylee.
For example, Maylee testified that he saw Schlup, Stewart, and O'Neal
running together against the flow of traffic, and that the three men had
stopped when they encountered Dade. See id., at 332. Flowers noticed
only Stewart running against the flow of traffic, and he testified that
O'Neal and Schlup were at the other end of the walk on the' far side of
Dade. See id., at 249.
7
Id., at 243.
sId., at 245.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

until he radioed for help was "approximately a minute." 9
The prosecution also offered testimony from a prison investigator who testified that he was able to run from the scene of
the crime to the dining room in 33 seconds and to walk the
distance at a normal pace in a minute and 37 seconds.
Neither the State nor Schlup was able to present evidence
establishing the exact time of Schlup's release from his cell
on Walk 2, the exact time of the assault on Walk 1, or the
exact time of the radio distress call. Further, there was no
evidence suggesting that Schlup had hurried to the dining
10
room.
After deliberating overnight, the jury returned a verdict
of guilty. Following the penalty phase, at which the victim
of one of Schlup's prior offenses testified extensively about
the sordid details of that offense, 1 the jury sentenced Schlup
to death. The Missouri Supreme Court affirmed Schlup's
conviction and death sentence, State v. Schlup, 724 S. W. 2d
236 (Mo. 1987), and this Court denied certiorari, Schlup v.
Missouri,482 U. S. 920 (1987).12
9Id., at 212, 214-215.
10
In fact, the evidence presented was to the contrary. Two inmates,
Bernard Bailey and Arthur St. Peter, testified that they were behind
Schlup in line on the way to the dining room and that they had all walked
at a normal pace. Lieutenant Robert Faherty, the corrections officer on
duty in the corridor leading from the prison floor to the dining room, testified that Schlup was the first inmate into the corridor on the day of the
murder. Faherty also testified that he saw Schlup pause and yell something out one of the windows in the corridor, and that he told Schlup to
move on. Faherty testified that nothing else unusual had occurred while
Schlup was in the corridor.
On the other hand, both Maylee's testimony and the videotape establish
that O'Neal ran from Walk 1 to the dining room.
n Schlup had been convicted of sodomy and assault in connection with
a series of attacks on a cellmate while he was being held in a county jail.
12The other alleged participants in the crime were convicted in earlier,
separate trials. O'Neal, who did the stabbing, was sentenced to death,
see State v. O'Neal, 718 S. W. 2d 498 (Mo. 1986); Stewart, who was apprehended by Flowers at the scene, was sentenced to 50 years' imprisonment

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

II

On January 5, 1989, after exhausting his state collateral
remedies,13 Schlup filed a pro se petition for a federal writ of

habeas corpus, asserting the claim, among others, that his
trial counsel was ineffective for failing to interview and to
call witnesses who could establish Schlup's innocence. 4 The
District Court concluded that Schlup's ineffectiveness claim
was procedurally barred, and it denied relief on that claim
without conducting an evidentiary hearing. 5 The Court of
Appeals affirmed, though it did not rely on the alleged procedural bar. Schlup v. Armontrout, 941 F. 2d 631 (CA8 1991).
Instead, based on its own examination of the record, the
Court found that trial counsel's performance had not been
constitutionally ineffective, both because counsel had reviewed statements that Schlup's potential witnesses had
given to prison investigators, and because the testimony of
those witnesses "would be repetitive of the testimony to be
presented at trial." Id., at 639.16 But cf. 11 F. 3d 738, 746,
without eligibility for probation or parole, see State v. Stewart, 714 S. W.
2d 724 (Mo. App. 1986).
"IThe denial of Schlup's motion for postconviction relief was affirmed by
the Missouri Supreme Court on October 18, 1988. See Schlup v. State,
758 S. W. 2d 715 (Mo. 1988).
14Schlup identified three nonparticipant witnesses who he claimed had
witnessed the murder: Van Robinson, Lamont Griffin Bey, and Ricky
McCoy. Schlup also faulted trial counsel for failing to interview Randy
Jordan, whom Schlup identified as the third participant in the murder.
15 Schlup had presented the ineffectiveness claim in his state postconviction motion, but had failed to raise it on appeal. See Schiup v. Armontrout, No. 89-0020C(3), 1989 U. S. Dist. LEXIS 18285, *11-*13 (ED Mo.,
May 31, 1989).
Schlup's first federal habeas petition also raised several other claims, all
of which were denied either as procedurally barred or on the merits.
"The Court of Appeals also addressed Schlup's other claims. Over
Judge Heaney's dissent, the court rejected Schlup's claim that his counsel
had been ineffective for failing to adduce available mitigating evidence at
the penalty hearing. Schlup v. Armontrout, 941 F. 2d, at 639. The court

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

n. 3 (CA8 1993) (Heaney, J., dissenting) (challenging the conclusion that such testimony would have been "repetitive").
The Court of Appeals denied a petition for rehearing and
suggestion for rehearing en banc, Schlup v. Armontrout, 945
F. 2d 1062 (1991), and we denied a petition for certiorari, 503
U. S. 909 (1992).
On March 11, 1992, represented by new counsel, Schlup
filed a second federal habeas corpus petition. That petition
raised a number of claims, including that (1) Schlup was actually innocent of Dade's murder, and that his execution would
therefore violate the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments,
cf. Herrera v. Collins, 506 U. S. 390 (1993); (2) trial counsel
was ineffective for failing to interview alibi witnesses; and
(3) the State had failed to disclose critical exculpatory evidence. The petition was supported by numerous affidavits
from inmates attesting to Schlup's innocence.
The State filed a response arguing that various procedural
bars precluded the District Court from reaching the merits
of Schlup's claims and that the claims were in any event meritless. Attached to the State's response were transcripts of
inmate interviews conducted by prison investigators just five
days after the murder. One of the transcripts contained an
interview with John Green, an inmate who at the time was
the clerk for the housing unit. In his interview, Green
stated that he had been in his office at the end of the walks
when the murder occurred. Green stated that Flowers had
also rejected Schlup's separate claim challenging the denial of his request
for an evidentiary hearing in the District Court. Schlup had requested
such a hearing to develop evidence so that he could in turn challenge the
failure of the state court to grant his request for a continuance of his state
postconviction proceedings. Schlup had requested that continuance to obtain additional evidence to support his claim of innocence. The Court of
Appeals held that Schlup's challenge to the state court's failure to grant a
continuance was not cognizable in a federal habeas corpus action. Id.,
at 642.

9CHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

told him to call for help, and that Green had notified base of
17
the disturbance shortly after it began.
Schlup immediately filed a traverse arguing that Green's
affidavit provided conclusive proof of Schlup's innocence.
Schlup contended that Green's statement demonstrated that
a call for help had gone out shortly after the incident. Because the videotape showed that Schlup was in the dining
room some 65 seconds before the guards received the distress call, Schlup argued that he could not have been involved in Dade's murder. Schlup emphasized that Green's
statement was not likely to have been fabricated, because at
the time of Green's interview, neither he nor anyone else
would have realized the significance of Green's call to base.
Schlup tried to buttress his claim of innocence with affidavits
from inmates who stated that they had witnessed the event
and that Schlup had not been present.'" Two of those affi7

"BROOKS: John, whenever you saw Dade fall what did you do then?
"GREEN: I stepped out of the office and I heard Sgt. Flowers calling for
officers cause they had had a fight. Couldn't get nobody so he told me to
call base to notify them of the fight and that's what I did.
"DEARIXON: That's all I have, John. Thank you very much. ' Response to Order To Show Cause Why a Writ of Habeas Corpus Should
Not Be Granted, Exhibit T (Transcripts of Inmate Interviews), p. 31.
If the total time required for Green to respond to Flowers' instruction
and for the base to send out a distress call in response to Green's call
amounted to a mere 15-17 seconds, O'Neal running at top speed would
have had 8-10 seconds to wash his hands and still would have been able
to arrive in the dining room some 26 seconds after the distress call.
18 Inthe District Court, Schlup attempted to supplement the record with
several detailed affidavits from inmates attesting to his innocence. For
example, Lamont Griffin Bey, a black inmate, submitted an affidavit in
which he stated: "The first thing I saw of the fight was Rodney [sic]
Stewart throw liquid in Arthur Dade's face, and O'Neal stab him .... I
knew Lloyd Schlup at that time, but we were not friends. Lloyd Schlup
was not present at the scene of the fight." Affidavit of Lamont Griffin
Bey, pp. 2-3 (Apr. 7, 1993). Griffin Bey also stated: "When this happened,
there was a lot of racial tension in the prison .... I would not stick my
neck out to help a white person under these circumstances normally, but
1

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

davits suggested that Randy Jordan-who occupied the cell
between O'Neal and Stewart in Walk 2, and who, as noted
above, see n. 4, supra,is shown on the videotape arriving at
lunch with O'Neal-was the third assailant.
On August 23, 1993, without holding a hearing, the District
Court dismissed Schlup's secondhabeas petition and vacated
the stay of execution that was then in effect.. The District
Court concluded that Schlup's various filings did not provide
adequate cause for failing to raise his new claims more
promptly. Moreover, the court concluded that Schlup had
failed to meet the Sawyer v. Whitley, 505 U. S. 333 (1992),
standard for showing that a refusal to entertain those claims
would result in a fundamental miscarriage of justice. In its
discussion of the evidence, the court made no separate comment on the significance of Green's statement. 19
On September 7, 1993, petitioner filed a motion to set aside
the order of dismissal, again calling the court's attention to
I'am willing to testify because I know Lloyd Schlup is innocent." Id.,
at 4.
Similarly, inmate Donnell White swore an affidavit in which he stated:
"Three white guys were coming the opposite way. One of them had a
tumbler of something that he threw in tDade's] face. One or two of the
other ones started sticking [Dade] with an ice-pick-type knife." Affidavit
of Donnell White, at 1 (Apr. 21, 1993). White further stated: "I have seen
Lloyd Schlup, and I know who he is. He is definitely not one of the guys
I saw jump Arthur Dade .... I know that one of the three men involved
has never been prosecuted, and I know that Lloyd Schlup is innocent. I
barely know Lloyd Schlup, and I have no reason to lie for him. I told the
investigators that I didn't see anything because I didn't want to get involved." Id., at 3.
Though the District Court ultimately denied Schlup's motion to supplement the record, the inmate affidavits are part of the record on appeal.
19The District Court focused primarily on the "suspect" nature of affidavits that are produced after a long delay, cf Herrerav. Collins, 506 U. S.
390, 423-424 (1993) (O'CONNOR, J., concurring), and that come from inmates. The court concluded that the affidavits presented by Schlup, when
considered against the positive identifications made by Flowers and
Maylee, failed to constitute a sufficiently persuasive showing of actual
innocence. App. 79.

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

Green's statement. Two days later, Schlup filed a supplemental motion stating that his counsel had located John
Green 2° and had obtained an affidavit from him. That affidavit confirmed Green's postincident statement that he had
called base shortly after the assault. Green's affidavit also
21
identified Jordan rather than Schlup as the third assailant.
"Green had been released from prison on January 29, 1986. Green
Affidavit,
at 4 (Sept. 7, 1993).
21
Green's affidavit stated:
"I looked down one walk, and I saw Randy Jordan holding Arthur Dade.
Jordan was standing behind Dade, and had Dade's arms pinned to his sides
from behind. I saw Robert O'Neal stab Dade several times in the chest
while Jordan was holding him.
"Dade broke loose and ran straight toward me. I saw him collide with
Rodnie Stewart and fall to the ground near the paint storage area. Sergeant Flowers hollered for help. I think there was so much noise that he
didn't think the other guards in the Housing Unit heard him, so he told
me to call base. He was on his way to break up the fight when he told
me to call base. I immediately went into the office, picked up the phone,
and called base.
"A sergeant at the base picked up the phone. I told him there was a
fight in Housing Unit 5A. He said something like, 'OK,' and I hung up
the phone." Id., at 2-3.
Green stated that his call to base came "within seconds of Dade hitting
the ground. It could not have been more than a half minute or a minute
after he was stabbed by Jordan and O'Neal. It happened very fast." Id.,
at 4.
Green also explained why he had earlier denied witnessing the murder:
"I told [investigators] I didn't [see the murder] because I was concerned
about my safety. I know that Jordan and O'Neal were in the Aryan
Brotherhood, and if I said I saw them do it, they could easily have me
killed." Id., at 3-4.
Green continued: "If I had been contacted before Schlup's trial, I would
have told his attorney that he was not there when Dade was stabbed, and
I would have testified that I called base within seconds after Dade hit the
ground. I might have been reluctant to snitch on Jordan and O'Neal.
I'm not afraid now because I haven't been in prison for more than 71/2
years, and I have been working steadily ever since. I have no intention
of going back to prison." Id., at 6.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

The District Court denied the motion and the supplemental
motion without opinion.
Petitioner then sought from the Court of Appeals a stay
of execution pending the resolution of his appeal. Relying
on Justice Powell's plurality opinion in Kuhlmann v. Wilson,
477 U. S. 436 (1986), Schlup argued that the District Court
should have entertained his second habeas corpus petition,
because he had supplemented his constitutional claim "with
a colorable claim of factual innocence." Id., at 454.
On October 15, 1993, the Court of Appeals denied the stay
application. In an opinion that was subsequently vacated,
the majority held that petitioner's claim of innocence was
governed by the standard announced in Sawyer v. Whitley,
505 U. S. 333 (1992), and it concluded that under that standard, the evidence of Schlup's guilt that had been adduced at
trial foreclosed consideration of petitioner's current constitu22
tional claims.
Judge Heaney dissented. Relying on Green's affidavit,
the videotape, and the affidavits of four other eyewitnesses,
Judge Heaney concluded that the petitioner had met both
the Kuhlmann standard and a proper reading of the Sawyer
standard.2 Cf. infra, at 331. He believed that the District
Court should have conducted an evidentiary hearing in
which the affiants would have been subjected to examination by the State so "their credibility could be accurately
determined."
In the meantime, petitioner's counsel obtained an affidavit
from Robert Faherty, the former lieutenant at the prison
whom Schlup had passed on the way to lunch on the day of
the murder and who had reprimanded Schlup for shouting

out the window. See n. 10, supra. Faherty's affidavit
stated that Schlup had been in Faherty's presence for at least
Schlup v. Delo, No. 93-3272, 1993 WL 409815, *3 (CAB, Oct. 15, 1993).
2

1 Id.,
14Id.,

at *7.
at *5.

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

two and a half minutes; that Schlup was walking at a leisurely pace; and that Schlup "was not perspiring or breathing hard, and he was not nervous." Affidavit of Robert Faherty
4, 6 (Oct. 26, 1993).2
On November 15, 1993, the Court of Appeals vacated its
earlier opinion and substituted a more comprehensive analysis of the law to support its decision to deny Schlup's request
for a stay. 11 F. 3d 738. The majority adhered to its earlier
conclusion that Sawyer stated the appropriate standard for
evaluating Schlup's claim of actual innocence. 11 F. 3d, at
740. The opinion also contained an extended discussion of
Schlup's new evidence. The court noted in particular that
Green's new affidavit was inconsistent in part with both his
prison interview and his testimony at the Stewart trial. Id.,
at 742. The court viewed Faherty's affidavit as simply "an
effort to embellish and expand upon his testimony" and concluded "that a habeas court should not permit retrial on such
a basis." Id., at 743.
Judge Heaney again dissented, concluding that Schlup had
"presented truly persuasive evidence that he is actually innocent," and that the District Court should therefore have addressed the merits of Schlup's constitutional claims. Id., at
744. Judge Heaney also argued that Schlup's ineffectiveness claim was substantial. He noted that Schlup's trial
counsel failed to conduct individual interviews with Griffin
Bey, McCoy, or any of the other inmates who told investigators that they had seen the killing. Moreover, counsel failed
to interview Green about his statement that he had called
2 Faherty had testified at Schlup's trial, but he had not been asked about
the significant details of his encounter with Schlup that are recited in his

affidavit. Faherty Affidavit
ment of Corrections in 1989.

9 (Oct. 26, 1993). Faherty left the DepartHe stated in his affidavit that he had been"

prompted to come forward after hearing about Schlup's case through an
article in the local newspaper.

Id.,

11.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

base. In fact, counsel apparently failed to conduct individual interviews with any of the potential witnesses to the
crime.
Judge Heaney adhered to his conclusion that Schlup's
counsel was ineffective, even though counsel allegedly had
reviewed 100 interviews conducted by prison investigators.2
Judge Heaney argued that counsel's review of the interview
transcripts-rather than demonstrating counsel's effectiveness-made counsel's failure to conduct his own interviews
with Green and the few inmates who admitted seeing the
attack even more troubling. See id., at 747, n. 5. Judge
Heaney concluded that Schlup's case should be remanded to
the District Court to conduct an evidentiary hearing and, if
appropriate, to address the merits of Schlup's constitutional
claims.
On November 17, 1993, the Court of Appeals denied a suggestion for rehearing en banc. Dissenting from that denial,
three judges joined an opinion describing the question
whether the majority should have applied the standard announced in Sawyer v. Whitley, supra, rather than the Kuhlmann standard as "a question of great importance in habeas
corpus jurisprudence." 11 F. 3d, at 755. We granted cer-

tiorari to consider that question. 511 U.S. 1003 (1994).27
III
As a preliminary matter, it is important to explain the difference between Schlup's claim of actual innocence and the
26 The transcripts of the individual interviews conducted by the prison
investigators were relatively brief: The entire written transcript of the
investigators' interview with Green, for example, takes up less than one
page.

The vast majority of the interviews consisted of simple statements

that the interviewee had not seen Dade's killing.
2 Though the Court of Appeals denied Schlup's motion for a stay of
execution, the Governor of Missouri granted a stay one day before Schlup's

execution date. The Governor then ordered a Board of Inquiry to conduct
clemency proceedings.

Those proceedings are apparently continuing.

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

claim of actual innocence asserted in Herrerav. Collins, 506
U. S. 390 (1993). In Herrera, the petitioner advanced his
claim of innocence to support a novel substantive constitutional claim, namely, that the execution of an innocent person
would violate the Eighth Amendment. 2 Under petitioner's
theory in Herrera,even if the proceedings that had resulted
in his conviction and sentence were entirely fair and error
free, his innocence would render his execution a "constitutionally intolerable event." Id., at 419 (O'CONNOR, J.,
concurring).
Schlup's claim of innocence, on the other hand, is procedural, rather than substantive. His constitutional claims
are based not on his innocence, but rather on his contention
that the ineffectiveness of his counsel, see Strickland v.
Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), and the withholding of evidence by the prosecution, see Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S.
83 (1963), denied him the full panoply of protections afforded
to criminal defendants by the Constitution. Schlup, however, faces procedural obstacles that he must overcome before a federal court may address the merits of those constitutional claims. Because Schlup has been unable to establish
"cause and prejudice" sufficient to excuse his failure to present his evidence in support of his first federal petition, see
McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467, 493-494 (1991),29 Schlup
may obtain review of his constitutional claims only if he falls
2 In Herrera, we assumed for the sake of argument that "in a capital
case a truly persuasive demonstration of 'actual innocence' made after
trial would render the execution of a defendant unconstitutional, and warrant federal habeas relief if there were no state avenue open to process
such a claim." 506 U. S., at 417.
2 Schlup argued in the District Court that the lack of diligence of his
appointed postconviction counsel, coupled with problems created by the
State, established cause and prejudice. See App. 38-48 (state postconviction proceedings); id., at 43-45 (proceedings on first federal habeas).
That argument was rejected by the District Court and the Court of Appeals, and petitioner does not renew it in this Court.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

within the "narrow class of cases... implicating a fundamental miscarriage of justice," id., at 494. Schlup's claim of innocence is offered only to bring him within this "narrow class
of cases."
Schlup's claim thus differs in at least two important ways
from that presented in Herrera. First, Schlup's claim of innocence does not by itself provide a basis for relief. Instead,
his claim for relief depends critically on the Validity of his
Strickland and Brady claims.30 Schlup's claim of innocence
is thus "not itself a constitutional claim, but instead a gateway through which a habeas petitioner must pass to have
his otherwise barred constitutional claim considered on the
merits." Herrera, 506 U. S., at 404; see also 11 F. 3d, at
740.31

More importantly, a court's assumptions about the validity
of the proceedings that resultedin conviction are fundamentally different in Schlup's case than in J-errera's. In Herrera,petitioner's claim was evaluated on the assumption that
the trial that resulted in his conviction had been error free.
In such a case, when a petitioner has been "tried before a
jury of his peers, with the full panoply of protections that
our Constitution affords criminal defendants," 506 U. S., at
419 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring), it is appropriate to apply an
o In light of our conclusion that the courts below applied the wrong

standard in evaluating Schlup's gateway innocence claim, see infra, at
326-327, we need not express a view concerning the merits of Schlup's
underlying constitutional claims.
31 In his submissions to the federal courts, Schlup has consistently argued that his execution would violate the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments because he is actually innocent. That Herrera claim was rejected
in the District Court and in the Court of Appeals. In the dissent from
the denial of rehearing en banc, three judges stated that they were persuaded by Judge Heaney's dissent that there was "at least a substantial
likelihood" that Schlup could meet even the extraordinarily high showing
required by Herrera. We denied certiorari on Schlup's Herrera claim,
and accordingly we express no opinion as to its merits.

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

"'extraordinarily high"' standard of review, id., at 426
(O'CONNOR, J., concurring).82
Schlup, in contrast, accompanies his claim of innocence
with an assertion of constitutional error at trial. For that
reason, Schlup's conviction may not be entitled to the same
degree of respect as one, such as Herrera's, that is the product of an error-free trial. Without any new evidence of innocence, even the existence of a concededly meritorious constitutional violation is not in itself sufficient to establish a
miscarriage of justice that would allow a habeas court to
reach the merits of a barred claim. However, if a petitioner
such as Schlup presents evidence of innocence so strong that
a court cannot have confidence in the outcome of the trial
unless the court is also satisfied that the trial was free of
nonharmless constitutional error, the petitioner should be
allowed to pass through the gateway and argue the merits
of his underlying claims.
Consequently, Schlup's evidence of innocence need carry
less of a burden. In Herrera(on the assumption that petitioner's claim was, in principle, legally well founded), the evidence of innocence would have had to be strong enough to
make his execution "constitutionally intolerable" even if his
conviction was the product of a fair trial. For Schlup, the
evidence must establish sufficient doubt about his guilt to
justify the conclusion that his execution would be a miscarriage of justice unless his conviction was the product of a
fair trial.
Our rather full statement of the facts illustrates the foregoing distinction between a substantive Herrera claim and
Schlup's procedural claim. Three items of evidence are particularly relevant: the affidavit of black inmates attesting to
the innocence of a white defendant in a racially motivated
killing; the affidavit of Green describing his prompt call for
In Herrera,it was not necessary to determine the appropriate standard of review because petitioner had failed to make "a truly persuasive
demonstration of 'actual innocence"' under any reasonable standard.
32

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

assistance; and the affidavit of Lieutenant Faherty describing Schlup's unhurried walk to the dining room. If there
were no question about the fairness of the criminal trial, a
Herrera-typeclaim would have to fail unless the federal habeas court is itself convinced that those new facts unquestionably establish Schlup's innocence. On the other hand, if
the habeas court were merely convinced that those new facts
raised sufficient doubt about Schlup's guilt to undermine confidence in the result of the trial without the assurance that
that trial was untainted by constitutional error, Schlup's
threshold showing of innocence would justify a review of the
merits of the constitutional claims.
IV
As this Court has repeatedly noted, "[a]t common law, res
judicata did not attach to a court's denial of habeas relief."
McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 479. Instead, "'a renewed application could be made to every other judge or court in the
realm, and each court or judge was bound to consider the
question of the prisoner's right to a discharge independently,
and not to be influenced by the previous decisions refusing
discharge."' Ibid., quoting W. Church, Writ of Habeas Corpus § 386, p. 570 (2d ed. 1893).
The Court has explained the early tolerance of successive
petitions, in part, by the fact that the writ originally performed only the narrow function of testing either the jurisdiction of the sentencing court or the legality of Executive
detention. See McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 478; Wainwright v.
Sykes, 433 U. S. 72, 78 (1977).33 The scope of the writ later
expanded beyond its original narrow purview to encompass
As this Court noted in Wainwright v. Sykes, there have been "divergent discussions of the historic role of federal habeas corpus." 433 U. S.,
at 77, n. 6. One recent commentator has offered a new perspective on the
history of the writ. See Liebman, Apocalypse Next Time?: The Anachronistic Attack on Habeas Corpus/Direct Review Parity, 92 Colum. L. Rev.
1997 (1992).

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

review of constitutional error that had occurred in the proceedings leading to conviction. See McCleskey, 499 U. S., at
478-479; Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S., at 79. That broadening of the scope of the writ created the risk that repetitious filings by individual petitioners might adversely affect
the administration of justice in the federal courts. Such filings also posed a threat to the finality of state-court judgments and to principles of comity and federalism. See, e. g.,
McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 491; Murray v. Carrier,477 U. S.
478, 487 (1986).
To alleviate the increasing burdens on the federal courts
and to contain the threat to finality and comity, Congress
attempted to fashion rules disfavoring claims raised in second and subsequent petitions. For example, in 1966, Congress amended 28 U. S. C. § 2244(b) "to introduce 'a greater
degree of finality of judgments in habeas corpus proceedings."' Kuhlmann v. Wilson, 477 U. S., at 450, quoting
S. Rep. No. 1797, 89th Cong., 2d Sess., 2 (1966) (Senate Report); see also McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 486. Similarly, in
1976, Congress promulgated Rule 9(b) of the Rules Governing Habeas Corpus Proceedings in part to deal with the
problem of repetitive filings.
These same concerns resulted in a number of recent decisions from this Court that delineate the circumstances under
which a district court may consider claims raised in a second
or subsequent habeas petition. In those decisions, the
Court held that a habeas court may not ordinarily reach the
merits of successive claims, Kuhlmann v. Wilson, 477 U. S.
436 (1986), or abusive claims, McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 493,
absent a showing of cause and prejudice, see Wainwright v.
Sykes, 433 U. S.72 (1977).4 The application of cause and
81 A "'successive petition' raises grounds identical to those raised and
rejected on the merits on a prior petition." Kuhlmann v. Wilson, 477
U. S., at 444, n. 6 (plurality opinion). An "abusive petition" occurs "where
a prisoner files a petition raising grounds that were available but not relied
upon in a prior petition, or engages in other conduct that 'disentitle[s] him

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

prejudice to successive and abusive claims conformed to this
Court's treatment of procedurally defaulted claims. Carrier,477 U. S.478; see also McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 490-491
("The doctrines of procedural default and abuse of the writ
implicate nearly identical concerns flowing from the significant costs of federal habeas corpus review"). See generally
Sawyer, 505 U. S., at 338-340. The net result of this congressional and judicial action has been the adoption in habeas
corpus of a "'qualified application of the doctrine of res judicata."' McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 486, quoting Senate Report, at 2.11
At the same time, the Court has adhered to the principle
that habeas corpus is, at its core, an equitable remedy. This
Court has consistently relied on the equitable nature of
habeas corpus to preclude application of strict rules of res
judicata. Thus, for example, in Sanders v. United States,
373 U. S.1 (1963), this Court held that a habeas court must
adjudicate even a successive habeas claim when required to
do so by the "ends of justice." Id., at 15-17; see also McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 495. The Sanders Court applied this
equitable exception even to petitions brought under 28
to the relief he seeks."' Ibid., quoting Sanders v. United States, 373 U.S.
1, 17-19 (1963).
'This Court has repeatedly noted the interplay between statutory language and judicially managed equitable considerations in the development
of habeas corpus jurisprudence. For example, in McCleskey, the Court
noted that the doctrine of abuse of the writ of habeas corpus "refers to a
complex and evolving body of equitable principles informed and controlled
by historical usage, statutory developments, and judicial decisions." 499
U. S., at 489. Similarly, in Wainwright v. Sykes, the Court noted its "historic willingness to overturn or modify its earlier views of the scope of
the writ, even where the statutory language authorizing judicial action
has remained unchanged." 433 U. S., at 81; see also Kuhlmann, 477 U. S.,
at 446-447 (explaining that the Court has both expanded and limited the
scope of the writ); Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 633 (1993) ("We
have filled the gaps of the habeas corpus statute with respect to other
matters").

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

U. S. C. §2255, though the language of §2255 contained no
reference to an "ends of justice" inquiry. 373 U. S., at 12-15.
We firmly established the importance of the equitable inquiry required by the ends of justice in "a trio of 1986 decisions" handed down on the same day. Sawyer, 505 U. S., at
339 (referring to Kuhlmann v. Wilson, 477 U. S. 436, Murray
v. Carrier,477 U.S. 478, and Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S.
527). In Kuhlmann, seven Members of this Court squarely
rejected the argument that in light of the 1966 amendments,
"federal courts no longer must consider the 'ends of justice'
before dismissing a successive petition." 477 U. S., at 451
(plurality opinion); id., at 468-471 (Brennan, J., dissenting);
id., at 476-477 (STEVENS, J., dissenting); see also Sawyer,
505 U. S., at 339 (noting that in Kuhlmann, "[w]e held that
despite the removal of [the reference to the ends of justice]
from 28 U. S. C. § 2244(b) in 1966, the miscarriage of justice
exception would allow successive claims to be heard").
Thus, while recognizing that successive petitions are generally precluded from review, Justice Powell's plurality opinion
expressly noted that there are "limited circumstances under
which the interests of the prisoner in relitigating constitutional claims held meritless on a prior petition may outweigh
the countervailing interests served by according finality to
the prior judgment." 477 U. S., at 452. Similarly, writing

for the Court in Carrier,JUSTICE

O'CONNOR

observed that

the Court had adopted the cause and prejudice standard in
part because of its confidence that that standard would provide adequate protection to "'victims of a fundamental miscarriage of justice,"' 477 U. S., at 495-496, quoting Engle v.

Isaac, 456 U. S. 107, 135 (1982); however, JUSTICE O'CONNOR
also noted that the Court has candidly refused to "pretend
that this will always be true," Carrier,477 U. S.; at 496.
For that reason, ."'[in appropriate cases,' the principles of
comity and finality that inform the concepts of cause and
prejudice 'must yield to the imperative of correcting a funda-

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

mentally unjust incarceration."' Id., at 495, quoting Engle
v. Isaac, 456 U. S., at 135; see also Smith v. Murray, 477
U. S., at 537. In subsequent cases, we have consistently reaffirmed the existence and importance of the exception for
fundamental miscarriages of justice. See, e. g., Sawyer, 505
U. S., at 339-340; McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 494-495; Dugger
v. Adams, 489 U. S. 401, 414 (1989) (Blackmun, J., dissenting).
To ensure that the fundamental miscarriage of justice exception would remain "rare" and would only be applied in
the "extraordinary case," while at the same time ensuring
that the exception would extend relief to those who were
truly deserving, this Court explicitly tied the miscarriage of
justice exception to the petitioner's innocence. In Kuhlmann, for example, Justice Powell concluded that a prisoner
retains an overriding "interest in obtaining his release from
custody if he is innocent of the charge for which he was incarcerated. That interest does not extend, however, to prisoners whose guilt is conceded or plain." 477 U. S., at 452.
Similarly, JUSTICE O'CONNOR wrote in Carrierthat "in an
extraordinary case, where a constitutional violation has
probably resulted in the conviction of one who is actually
innocent, a federal habeas court may grant the writ even in
the absence of a showing of cause for the procedural default."
477 U. S., at 496; see also Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S., at 537,
quoting Carrier,477 U. S., at 496.
The general rule announced in Kuhlmann, Carrier,and
Smith, and confirmed in this Court's more recent decisions,
rests in part on the fact that habeas corpus petitions that
advance a substantial claim of actual innocence are extremely rare. 6 Judge Friendly's observation a quarter of a
Indeed, neither party called our attention to any decision from a Court
of Appeals in which a petitioner had satisfied any definition of actual innocence. Though some such decisions exist, see, e. g., Hendersonv. Sargent,
926 F. 2d 706, 713-714 (CA8), reaff'd in relevant part on rehearing, 939
F. 2d 586 (CA8 1991), cert. denied, 502 U. S. 1050 (1992); Bliss v. Lockhart,

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

century ago that "the one thing almost never suggested on
collateral attack is that the prisoner was innocent of the
crime" remains largely true today.37 Explicitly tying the
miscarriage of justice exception to innocence thus accommodates both the systemic interests in finality, comity, and conservation of judicial resources, and the overriding individual
interest in doing justice in the "extraordinary case," Carrier,
477 U. S., at 496.
In addition to linking miscarriages of justice to innocence,
Carrierand Kuhlmann also expressed the standard of proof
that should govern consideration of those claims. In Carrier,for example, the Court stated that the petitioner must
show that the constitutional error "probably" resulted in the
conviction of one who was actually innocent. The Kuhlmann plurality, though using the term "colorable claim of
factual innocence," elaborated that the petitioner would be
required to establish, by a "'fair probability,"' that "'the
trier of the facts would have entertained a reasonable doubt
of his guilt."' 477 U. S., at 454, 455, n. 17.
In the years following Kuhlmann and Carrier,we did not
expound further on the actual innocence exception. In
those few cases that mentioned the standard, the Court continued to rely on the formulations set forth in Kuhlmann
and Carrier. In McCleskey, for example, while establishing
that cause and prejudice would generally define the situations in which a federal court might entertain an abusive
petition, the Court recognized an exception for cases in
which the constitutional violation "probably has caused the
conviction of one innocent of the crime." 499 U. S., at 494,
citing Carrier,477 U. S., at 485.
891 F. 2d 1335, 1342 (CA8 1987) (relying on Carrier'sactual innocence
exception as an alternative ground of decision), independent research confirms that such decisions are rare.
87
Friendly, Is Innocence Irrelevant? Collateral Attack on Criminal
Judgments, 38 U. Chi. L. Rev. 142, 145 (1970).

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Then, in Sawyer, the Court examined the miscarriage of
justice exception as applied to a petitioner who claimed he
was "actually innocent of the death penalty." In that opinion, the Court struggled to define "actual innocence" in the
context of a petitioner's claim that his death sentence was
inappropriate. The Court concluded that such actual innocence "must focus on those elements which render a defendant eligible for the death penalty." 505 U. S., at 347. However, in addition to defining what it means to be "innocent"
of the death penalty, the Court departed from Carrier'suse
of "probably" and adopted a more exacting standard of proof
to govern these claims: The Court held that a habeas petitioner "must show by clear and convincing evidence that
but for a constitutional error, no reasonable juror would have
found the petitioner eligible for the death penalty." 505
U. S., at 336 (emphasis added).3 No attempt was made in
Sawyer to reconcile this stricter standard with Carrier'suse
of "probably."
V
In evaluating Schlup's claim of innocence, the Court of Appeals applied Eighth Circuit precedent holding that Sawyer,
rather than Carrier, supplied the proper legal standard.
The court then purported to apply the Sawyer standard.
Schlup argues that Sawyer has no application to a petitioner
who claims that he is actually innocent of the crime, and that
the Court of Appeals misapplied Sawyer in any event. Respondent contends that the Court of Appeals was correct in
both its selection and its application of the Sawyer standard.
Though the Court of Appeals seems to have misapplied Sawyer, 39 we do not rest our decision on that ground because we
8 Even the high standard of proof set forth in Sawyer falls short of the
Jackson standard governing habeas review of claims of insufficiency of the
evidence. See Jackson v. Virginia, 443 U. S. 307, 324 (1979) ("[N]o rational trier of fact could have found proof of guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt") (emphasis added). See infra, at 330.
19 See infra, at 331.

SCHLUP v. DELO

Opinion of the Court

conclude that in a case such as this, the Sawyer standard
does not apply.
As we have stated, the fundamental miscarriage of justice
exception seeks to balance the societal interests in finality,
comity, and conservation of scarce judicial resources with the
individual interest in justice that arises in the extraordinary
case. We conclude that Carrier,rather than Sawyer, properly strikes that balance when the claimed injustice is that
constitutional error has resulted in the conviction of one who
is actually innocent of the crime.
Claims of actual innocence pose less of a threat to scarce
judicial resources and to principles of finality and comity
than do claims that focus solely on the erroneous imposition
of the death penalty. Though challenges to the propriety of
imposing a sentence of death are routinely asserted in capital
cases, experience has taught us that a substantial claim that
constitutional error has caused the conviction of an innocent
person is extremely rare. See supra, at 321-322. To be
credible, such a claim requires petitioner to support his allegations of constitutional error with new reliable evidencewhether it be exculpatory scientific evidence, trustworthy
eyewitness accounts, or critical physical evidence-that was
not presented at trial. Because such evidence is obviously
unavailable in the vast majority of cases, claims of actual
innocence are rarely successful. Even under the preSawyer regime, "in virtually every case, the allegation of
actual innocence has been summarily rejected.

' 40

The

threat to judicial resources, finality, and comity posed by
claims of actual innocence is thus significantly less than that
posed by claims relating only to sentencing.
Of greater importance, the individual interest in avoiding
injustice is most compelling in the context of actual innocence. The quintessential miscarriage of justice is the exe4 Steiker, Innocence and Federal Habeas, 41 UCLA L. Rev. 303, 377
(1993); see also id., at 377, n. 370 (collecting cases).

Cite as: 613 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

cution of a person who is entirely innocent. 41 Indeed, concern about the injustice that results from the conviction of
an innocent person has long been at the core of our criminal
justice system. That concern is reflected, for example, in
the "fundamental value determination of our society that it
is far worse to convict an innocent man than to let a guilty
man go free." In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358, 372 (1970)
(Harlan, J., concurring). See also T. Starkie, Evidence 756
(1824) ("The maxim of the law is ... that it is better that
ninety-nine.., offenders should escape, than that one innocent man should be condemned"). See generally Newman,
Beyond "Reasonable Doubt," 68 N. Y U. L. Rev. 979, 980981 (1993).
The overriding importance of this greater individual interest merits protection by imposing a somewhat less exacting
standard of proof on a habeas petitioner alleging a fundamental miscarriage of justice than on one alleging that his sentence is too severe. As this Court has noted, "a standard of
proof represents an attempt to instruct the factfinder concerning the degree of confidence our society thinks he should
have in the correctnesA of factual conclusions for a particular
type of adjudication." In re Winship, 397 U. S., at 370 (Harlan, J., concurring); see also Addington v. Texas, 441 U. S.
418, 423 (1979). The standard of proof thus reflects "the relative importance attached to the ultimate decision." Ibid.
Though the Sawyer standard was fashioned to reflect the
relative importance of a claim of an erroneous sentence, application of that standard to petitioners such as Schlup would
give insufficient weight to the correspondingly greater injustice that is implicated by a claim of actual innocence. The
41

See, e. g., Lankford v. Idaho, 500 U. S. 110, 125 (1991); Clemons v.
Mississippi, 494 U. S. 738, 750, n. 4 (1990); Booth v. Maryland, 482 U. S.
496, 509, n. 12 (1987); Solem v. Helm, 463 U. S. 277, 294 (1983); Gardner v.
Florida, 430 U. S. 349, 357-358 (1977) (plurality opinion); Woodson v.
North Carolina, 428 U. S. 280, 303-304, 305 (1976) (plurality opinion of
Stewart, Powell, and STEVENS, JJ.).

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

paramount importance of avoiding the injustice of executing
one who is actually innocent thus requires application of the
Carrierstandard.42
We recognize, as the State has reminded us, that in Sawyer the Court applied its new standard not only to the penalty phase of the case but also to Sawyer's responsibility for
arson, one of the elements of the offense of first-degree murder.4 This fact does not require application of the Sawyer
standard to a case such as Schlup's. Though formulated as
an element of the offense of first-degree murder, the arson
functioned essentially as a sentence enhancer. That claim,
therefore, is readily distinguishable from a claim, like the
one raised by Schlup, that the petitioner is actually innocent.
Fealty to the doctrine of stare decisis does not, therefore,
preclude application of the Carrierstandard to the facts of
this case.44
Accordingly, we hold that the Carrier"probably resulted"
standard rather than the more stringent Sawyer standard
must govern the miscarriage of justice inquiry when a peti4By our references to Winship, of course, we do not suggest that Schlup
comes before a habeas court in the same situation as one who has merely
been accused of a crime. Having been convicted by a jury of a capital
offense, Schlup no longer has the benefit of the presumption of innocence. Cf. Herrerav. Collins,506 U. S., at 399 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring).
To the contrary, Schlup comes before the habeas court with a strong-and
in the vast majority of the cases conclusive-presumption of guilt. Our
reference to Winship is intended merely to demonstrate that it is quite
consistent with our jurisprudence to give content through a burden of
proof to the understanding that fundamental injustice would result from
the erroneous conviction and execution of an innocent person.
4See Sawyer, 505 U. S., at 342, n. 8, 349-350.
"Nor do we believe that confining Sawyer's more rigorous standard to
claims involving eligibility for the sentence of death is anomalous. Our
recognition of the significant difference between the injustice that results
from an erroneous conviction and the injustice that results from an erroneous sentence is reflected in our decisions that permit reduced procedural
protections at sentencing. See, e. g., Williams v. New York, 337 U. S.
241 (1949).

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

tioner who has been sentenced to death raises a claim of actual innocence to avoid a procedural bar to the consideration
of the merits of his constitutional claims.
VI
The Carrier standard requires the habeas petitioner to
show that "a constitutional violation has probably resulted
in the conviction of one who is actually innocent." 477 U. S.,
at 496. To establish the requisite probability, the petitioner
must show that it is more likely than not that no reasonable
juror would have convicted him in the light of the new evidence. The petitioner thus is required to make a stronger
showing than that needed to establish prejudice.45 At the
same time, the showing of "more likely than not" imposes a
lower burden of proof than the "clear and convincing" standard required under Sawyer. The Carrier standard thus
ensures that petitioner's case is truly "extraordinary," McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 494, while still providing petitioner a
meaningful avenue by which to avoid a manifest injustice.
Carrierrequires a petitioner to show that he is "actually
innocent." As used in Carrier,actual innocence is closely
related to the definition set forth by this Court in Sawyer.
To satisfy the Carriergateway standard, a petitioner must
show that it is more likely than not that no reasonable juror
would have found petitioner guilty beyond a reasonable
doubt.
Several observations about this standard are in order.
The Carrier standard is intended to focus the inquiry on

actual innocence. In assessing the adequacy of petitioner's
showing, therefore, the district court is not bound by the
rules of admissibility that would govern at trial. Instead,
the emphasis on "actual innocence" allows the reviewing tribunal also to consider the probative force of relevant evil See Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, 694 (1984); United States
v. Bagley, 473 U. S. 667, 682 (1985) (Blackmun, J.); id., at 685 (White, J.,
concurring).

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

dence that was either excluded or unavailable at trial. Indeed, with respect to this aspect of the Carrierstandard, we
believe that Judge Friendly's description of the inquiry is
appropriate: The habeas court must make its determination
concerning the petitioner's innocence "in light of all the evidence, including that alleged to have been illegally admitted
(but with due regard to any unreliability of it) and evidence
tenably claimed to have been wrongly excluded or to have
' 46
become available only after the trial.
The consideration in federal habeas proceedings of a
broader array of evidence does not modify the essential
meaning of "innocence." The Carrierstandard reflects the
proposition, firmly established in our legal system, that the
line between innocence and guilt is drawn with reference to
a reasonable doubt. See In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358 (1970).
Indeed, even in Sawyer, with its emphasis on eligibility for
the death penalty, the Court did not stray from the understanding that the eligibility determination must be made
with reference to reasonable doubt. Thus, whether a court
is assessing eligibility for the death penalty under Sawyer,
or is deciding whether a petitioner has made the requisite
showing of innocence under Carrier, the analysis must
incorporate the understanding that proof beyond a reasonable doubt marks the legal boundary between guilt and
innocence.47
4 38

U. Chi. L. Rev., at 160.
Actual innocence, of course, does not require innocence in the broad
sense of having led an entirely blameless life. Indeed, Schlup's situation
provides a good illustration. At the time of the crime at issue in this
case, Schlup was incarcerated for an earlier offense, the sordid details of
which he acknowledged in his testimony at the punishment phase of his
trial. Such earlier criminal activity has no bearing on whether Schlup is
actually innocent of Dade's murder.
As we have explained, supra, at 313-317, Schlup's claim of innocence is
fundamentally different from the claim advanced in Herrera. The standard that we apply today, therefore, will not foreclose the application of
factual innocence to the analysis of such claims.
47

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

The meaning of actual innocence as formulated by Sawyer
and Carrierdoes not merely require a showing that a reasonable doubt exists in the light of the new evidence,
but rather that no reasonable juror would have found the
defendant guilty. It is not the district court's independent
judgment as to whether reasonable doubt exists that the
standard addresses; rather the standard requires the district
court to make a probabilistic determination about what reasonable, properly instructed jurors would do. Thus, a petitioner does not meet the threshold requirement unless he
persuades the district court that, in light of the new evidence, no juror, acting reasonably, would have voted to find
him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
We note finally that the Carrierstandard requires a petitioner to show that it is more likely than not that "no reasonable juror" would have convicted him. The word "reasonable" in that formulation is not without meaning. It must
be presumed that a reasonable juror would consider fairly
all of the evidence presented. It must also be presumed
that such a juror would conscientiously obey the instructions

of the trial court requiring proof beyond a reasonable
doubt.18
41 THE CHIEF JUSTICE suggests that the Carrierstandard is "a classic
mixing of apples and oranges." Post, at 339. That standard, however, is
no more a mixing of apples and oranges than is the standard adopted by
the Court in Sawyer. See Sawyer, 505 U. S., at 336 (requiring that petitioner show "by clear and convincing evidence that, but for a constitutional
error, no reasonable juror would have found the petitioner eligible for
the death penalty"). Though it is true that "'[m]ore likely than not'" is a
"quintessential charge to a finder of fact," post, at 339, that is equally true of
the "clear and convincing evidence" component of the Sawyer formulation.
There is thus no reason to believe that the Carrierstandard is any more
likely than the Sawyer standard to be "a source of confusion." Post, at339.
Nor do we accept THE CHIEF JUSTICE's description of the Carrier
standard as a "hybrid." Post, at 339. Finders of fact are often called
upon to make predictions about the likely actions of hypothetical "reasonable" actors. Thus, the application of "more likely than not" to the habeas
court's assessment of the actions of reasonable jurors is neither illogical
nor unusual.

SCHLUP v. DELO
Opinion of the Court

Though the Carrierstandard requires a substantial showing, it is by no means equivalent to the standard of Jackson
v. Virginia, 443 U. S. 307 (1979), that governs review of
claims of insufficient evidence. The Jackson standard,
which focuses on whether any rational juror could have
convicted, looks to whether there is sufficient evidence
which, if credited, could support the conviction. The Jackson standard thus differs in at least two important ways
from the Carrierstandard. First, under Jackson, the assessment of the credibility of witnesses is generally beyond
the scope of review. In contrast, under the gateway standard we describe today, the newly presented evidence may
indeed call into question the credibility of the witnesses presented at trial. In such a case, the habeas court may have
to make some credibility assessments. Second, and more
fundamentally, the focus of the inquiry .is different under
Jackson than under Carrier. Under Jackson, the use of the
word "could" focuses the inquiry on the power of the trier of
fact to reach its conclusion. Under Carrier,the use of the
word "would" focuses the inquiry on the likely behavior of
the trier of fact.
Indeed, our adoption of the phrase "more likely than not"
reflects this distinction. Under Jackson, the question
whether the trier of fact has power to make a finding of guilt

requires a binary response: Either the trier of fact has power
as a matter of law or it does not. Under Carrier, in
contrast, the habeas court must consider what reasonable
triers of fact are likely to do. Under this probabilistic inquiry, it makes sense to have a probabilistic standard such
as "more likely than not." 49 Thus, though under Jackson
the mere existence of sufficient evidence to convict would be
determinative of petitioner's claim, that is not true under
Carrier.
49

The "clear and convincing" standard adopted in Sawyer reflects this

same understanding of the relevant inquiry.

Cite as: 513 U. S .298 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

We believe that the Eighth Circuit's erroneous application
of the Sawyer standard below illustrates this difference. In
determining that Schlup had failed to satisfy the Sawyer
standard, the majority noted that "two prison officials, who
were eyewitnesses to the crime, positively identified Mr.
Schlup as one of the three perpetrators of the murder. This
evidence was clearly admissible and stands unrefuted except
to the extent that Mr. Schlup now questions its credibility."
11 F. 3d, at 741.
The majority then continued:
"[E]ven if we disregard the source of the new evidence,
the eleventh-hour nature of the information, and a pres-entation coming almost six years after the trial; it is
simply not possible to say that the appellant has shown
by clear and convincing evidence that but for a constitutional error no reasonable jury would have found him
guilty." Ibid.
However, Schlup's evidence includes the sworn statements
of several eyewitnesses that Schlup was not involved in the
crime. Moreover, Schlup has presented statements from
Green and Faherty that cast doubt on whether Schlup could
have participated in the murder and still arrived at the dining room 65 seconds before the distress call was received.
Those new statements may, of course, be unreliable. But if
they are true-as the Court of Appeals assumed for the purpose of applying its understanding of the Sawyer standardit surely cannot be said that a juror, conscientiously following
the judge's instructions requiring proof beyond a reasonable
doubt, would vote to convict. Under a proper application of
either Sawyer or Carrier,petitioner's showing of innocence
is not insufficient solely because the trial record contained
sufficient evidence to support the jury's verdict.
In this case, the application of the Carrierstandard arises
in the context of a request for an evidentiary hearing. In
applying the Carrierstandard to such a request, the District

SCHLUP v. DELO
O'CONNOR, J., concurring

Court must assess the probative force of the newly presented
evidence in connection with the evidence of guilt adduced at
trial. Obviously, the court is not required to test the new
evidence by a standard appropriate for deciding a motion for
summary judgment. Cf. Agosto v. INS, 436 U. S. 748, 756
(1978) ("[A] district court generally cannot grant summary
judgment based on its assessment of the credibility of the
evidence presented"); Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477
U. S. 242, 249 (1986) ("[A]t the summary judgment stage the
judge's function is not himself to weigh the evidence and determine the truth of the matter but to determine whether
there is a genuine issue for trial"). Instead, the court may
consider how the timing of the'submission and the likely
credibility of the affiants bear on the probable reliability of
that evidence.
Because both the Court of Appeals and the District Court
evaluated the record under an improper standard, further
proceedings are necessary. The fact-intensive nature of the

inquiry, together with the District Court's ability to take testimony from the few key witnesses if it deems that course
advisable, convinces us that the most expeditious procedure
is to order that-the decision of the Court of Appeals be vacated and that the case be remanded to the Court of Appeals
with instructions to remand to the District Court for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

concurring.

I write to explain, in light of the dissenting opinions, what
I understand the Court to decide and what it does not.
The Court holds that, in order to have an abusive or
successive habeas claim heard on the merits, a petitioner
who cannot demonstrate cause and prejudice "must show
that it is more likely than not that no reasonable juror
would have convicted him" in light of newly discovered
evidence of innocence. Ante, at 327. This standard is

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
O'CONNOR, J., concurring

higher than that required for prejudice, which requires
only "a reasonable probability that, absent the errors,
the factfinder would have had a reasonable doubt respecting
guilt," Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, 695 (1984).
Instead, a petitioner does not pass through the gateway
erected by Murray v. Carrier,477 U. S. 478 (1986), if the
district court believes it more likely than not that there
is any juror who, acting reasonably, would have found the
petitioner guilty beyond. a reasonable doubt. And the
Court's standard, which focuses the inquiry on the likely
behavior of jurors, is substantively different from the rationality standard of Jackson v. Virginia, 443 U. S. 307
(1979). Jackson, which emphasizes the authority of the factfinder to make conclusions from the evidence, establishes a
standard of reView for the sufficiency of record evidence-a
standard that would be ill suited as a burden of proof, see
Concrete, Pipe & Products of Cal., Inc. v. Construction
Laborers Pension Trust for Southern Cal., 508 U. S. 602,
624-626 (1993). The Court today does not sow confusion in
the law. Rather, it properly balances the dictates of justice
with the need to ensure that the actual innocence exception
remains only a "'safety valve' for the 'extraordinary case,'"
Harris v. Reed, 489 U. S. 255, 271 (1989) (O'CONNOR, J.,
concurring).
Moreover, the Court does not, and need not, decide
whether the fundamental miscarriage of justice exception is
a discretionary remedy. It is a paradigmatic abuse of discretion for a court to base its judgment on an erroneous view
of the law. See Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U. S.
384, 405 (1990). Having decided that the district court committed legal error, and thus abused its discretion, by relying
on Sawyer v. Whitley, 505 U. S. 333 (1992), instead of Murray v. Carrier,supra, the Court need not decide the question-neither argued by the parties nor passed upon by the
Court of Appeals-whether abuse of discretion is the proper
standard of review. In reversing the judgment of the Court

SCHLUP v. DELO
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

of Appeals, therefore, the Court does not disturb the traditional discretion of district courts in this area, nor does
it speak to the standard of appellate review for such
'judgments.
With these observations, I join the Court's opinion.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom JUSTICE KENNEDY and JUSTICE THOMAS join, dissenting.

The Court decides that the threshold standard for a showing of "actual innocence" in a successive or abusive habeas
petition is that set forth in Murray v. Carrier,477 U. S. 478
(1986), rather than that set forth in Sawyer v. Whitley, 505
U. S. 333 (1992). For reasons which I later set out, I believe
the Sawyer standard should be applied to claims of guilt or
innocence as well as to challenges to a petitioner's sentence.
But, more importantly, I believe the Court's exegesis of the
Carrierstandard both waters down the standard suggested
in that case, and will inevitably create confusion in the
lower courts.
On February 3, 1984, three white inmates attacked and
killed a black inmate named Arthur Dade. At trial, testimony by Sergeant Roger Flowers and Officer John Maylee
indicated that inmate Rodnie Stewart threw a container of
steaming liquid into Dade's face, petitioner jumped on Dade's
back rendering him defenseless, and inmate Robert O'Neal
proceeded to stab Dade to death. Petitioner's trial counsel
attempted to discredit both eyewitness identifications. As
to Sergeant Flowers, counsel argued that Flowers had
brought a visitor into petitioner's cell less than an hour before the stabbing, and, therefore, Flowers had Schlup "on the
brain." Trial Tr. 493-494. Trial counsel attempted to discredit Officer Maylee's identification by arguing that Maylee
was too far from the scene to properly view the incident.
Through discovery, petitioner's trial counsel uncovered a
videotape in which petitioner is the first inmate to enter the
cafeteria. One minute and five seconds after petitioner

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
REHNQUIST, C. J.,

dissenting

enters the cafeteria, a group of guards run out in appar-

ent response to a distress call. Twenty-six seconds later,
O'Neal is seen entering the cafeteria. Petitioner's trial
counsel argued that the videotape established that petitioner
could not have committed the murder because there was insufficient time for him to commit the crime and arrive at the
cafeteria one minute and five seconds prior to the distress
call. Petitioner's trial counsel also presented two alibi witnesses who testified that petitioner had walked in front of
them to the cafeteria without incident.
The jury considered this conflicting evidence, determined
that petitioner's story was not credible, and convicted him of
capital murder. During the sentencing component of trial,
the prosecution presented evidence that there were two statutory aggravating factors that warranted imposition of the
death penalty: petitioner committed the murder in a place of
lawful confinement, and petitioner had a substantial history
of serious assaultive criminal convictions. As to the second
aggravating factor, the prosecution presented testimony that
for two weeks, petitioner had brutally beaten, tortured, and
sodomized a cellmate in a county jail. The prosecution also
presented testimony that petitioner was convicted of aggravated assault for slitting a cellmate's throat. On crossexamination, petitioner presented his version of the prior
incidents. The jury considered this evidence, rejected petitioner's story, and returned a sentence of death.
On appeal, the Missouri Supreme Court affirmed petitioner's conviction and death sentence. Petitioner then filed
state collateral proceedings claiming, among other things,
that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to present
additional alibi witnesses and for failing to investigate fully
the circumstances of the murder. The Missouri Circuit
Court determined that petitioner's counsel provided effective assistance of counsel. The Missouri Supreme Court
affirmed the denial of postconviction relief.

SCHLUP v. DELO
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

Petitioner then filed his first federal habeas petition claiming that his trial counsel was ineffective at both the guilt and
penalty phases of trial. Though he previously refused to
identify Randy Jordan as the alleged third participant in the
murder, petitioner faulted his trial counsel for failing to call

Randy Jordan as a witness'

The District Court denied re-

lief. A panel of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
concluded on the merits that petitioner's trial counsel had
not been ineffective at the guilt or penalty phases of trial.2
Petitioner sought review of the panel's decision by the en
banc court. No Eighth Circuit judge questioned the panel's
conclusion that petitioner's trial counsel provided effective
assistance of counsel during the guilt phase of trial.
Petitioner filed a second federal habeas petition, again
claiming that his trial counsel was ineffective at both the
guilt and penalty phases of trial. Petitioner supplemented
this filing with an affidavit from a former inmate, John
Green. Green's affidavit related to the timing of the distress
call. In his most recent statement, Green swore that Sergeant Flowers "was on his way to break up the fight when
he told me to call base. I immediately went into the office,
picked up the phone, and called base." App. 122.3 Under
'The Missouri Circuit Court found that "[d]efense counsel did not interview Randy Jordan, whom Petitioner now alleges was the third participant

in the murder with which the Petitioner was charged, because the Petitioner while maintaining someone else committed the acts attributed to
him, fefused to give the name of that person to his counsel." Schhup v.
Delo, Respondent's Exhibit J, pp. 49-50.

Senior Circuit Judge Heaney took issue only with the majority's conclusion that petitioner's trial counsel had rendered effective assistance at the
penalty phase of trial. Cf. Schlup v. Armontrout, 941 F. 2d 631, 642 (1991)
("I disagree with the court's conclusion that Schlup was not prejudiced
by his counsel's ineffectiveness during the penalty phase") (dissenting
opinion).
IOn the day of the incident Green told prison investigators that he had
not observed the murder. At Stewart's trial, while under oath, Green
testified that he saw no actual fight take place and made no mention of his
call to base. App. 140. Green now also swears that he "called base ...
within seconds of Dade hitting the ground." Id., at 123.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

this timing sequence, petitioner submitted that he "ha[d]
produced proof, which could not have been fabricated, that
the call to which the guards [in the cafeteria] responded
came seconds after the stabbing." Id., at 100-101. Further, petitioner claimed that "Green's testimony thus makes
it impossible, under any view of the evidence, for Schlup to
have participated in Dade's murder: for thirty seconds to a
minute before the distress call, the videotape plainly shows
Lloyd Schlup in the prison dining room, quietly getting his
lunch." Brief for Petitioner 12. Thus, petitioner's claim of
"actual innocence" depends, in part, on the assumption that
the officers in the cafeteria responded to Green's distress call
"within seconds" of Dade hitting the ground.4
The District Court denied petitioner's second habeas petition without conducting an evidentiary hearing. While on
appeal, petitioner supplemented his habeas petition with an
additional affidavit from Robert Faherty, a former prison
guard who previously testified at petitioner's trial. A divided panel of the Eighth Circuit applied the Sawyer standard to petitioner's gateway claim of "actual innocence" and
determined that petitioner failed to meet that standard.
The Eighth Circuit denied rehearing en banc. We granted
certiorari to determine when, absent a showing of cause
4

One problem with this theory is that O'Neal, an undisputed participant
in the murder, entered the cafeteria 26 seconds after the guards responded
to the distress call. As respondent explained at oral argument: "[I]f you
believe that [Green] radioed in immediately upon the time of the body
falling. . then you look at the videotape, and there is only 26 seconds
between the time that that call was supposedly made by Green and the
time that O'Neal comes into the cafeteria downstairs, and all of the evi-

dence in this case shows it's impossible for O'Neal, the admitted murderer
...

to have run down,... broken a 'window, thrown the knife out the

window, come back, washed his hands... and go[ne] down to the cafeteria,
if you hold Green's present statement as controlling,the murder never
occurred." Tr. of Oral Arg. 30-31 (emphasis added). Thus, as the Court
acknowledges, ante, at 308, n. 17, there was a delay between the time of
the murder and the time that the guards in the cafeteria responded to the
distress call.

SCHLUP v. DELO
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

and prejudice, a district court may consider the merits of
an abusive or successive habeas petition. 511 U. S. 1003
(1994).
In Kuhlmann v. Wilson, 477 U. S. 436 (1986), the Court
examined when a federal court could entertain a successive
habeas petition. A plurality of the Court determined that
the "'ends of justice"' required a district court to entertain
the merits of an otherwise defaulted petition where the
prisoner supplemented his constitutional claim with a showing of factual innocence. Id., at 454. After citing Judge
Friendly's definition of factual innocence, the plurality
summarily determined that the District Court should not
have entertained Wilson's petition because the evidence
of guilt in his case had been "'nearly overwhelming."' Id.,
at 455.
In Carrier,the Court determined that a federal court
could not review a procedurally defaulted habeas petition unless the petitioner demonstrated both cause for the default
as well as prejudice resulting from the constitutional error.
477 U. S., at 492.1 The CarrierCourt, however, left open
the possibility that in a truly extraordinary case, a federal
habeas court might excuse a failure to establish cause and
prejudice where "'a constitutional violation has probably resulted in the conviction of one who is actually innocent."'
Ante, at 327, quoting 477 U. S., at 496 (emphasis added).
In Sawyer, we described in some detail the showing of
actual innocence required when a habeas petitioner brings
an otherwise abusive, successive, or procedurally defaulted
claim challenging the imposition of his death sentence, rather
than his guilt of the crime. 505 U. S., at 339-347. There
the Court emphasized that innocence of the death penalty,
5
The Court explicitly rejected the contention that "cause need not be
shown if actual prejudice is shown," even where the constitutional claims

"call[ed] into question the reliability of an adjudication of legal guilt."

477 U. S., at 495 (emphasis added); see also Engle v. Isaac, 456 U. S. 107,
129 (1982).

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

like its "'actual innocence' counterpart, is "a very narrow
exception," and that in order to be "workable it must be
subject to determination by relatively objective standards."
Id., at 341. Thus, we concluded that a habeas petitioner
who challenged his sentence in an otherwise defaulted petition must show "by clear and convincing evidence that but
for constitutional error, no reasonable juror would [have
found the petitioner] eligible for the death penalty." Id., at
348.
We have never until today had to similarly flesh out the
standard of "actual innocence" in the context of a habeas
petitioner claiming innocence of the crime. Thus, I agree
that the question of what threshold standard should govern
is an open one. As I have said earlier, I disagree with the
Court's conclusion that Carrier,and not Sawyer, provides
the proper standard. But far more troubling than the choice
of Carrierover Sawyer is the watered down and confusing
version of Carrierwhich is served up by the Court.
As the Court notes, to satisfy Carriera habeas petitioner
must demonstrate that "'a constitutional violation has probably resulted in the conviction of one who is actually innocent."' Ante, at 327 (quoting Carrier,supra, at 496). The
Court informs us that a showing of "actual innocence" requires a habeas petitioner to "show that it is more likely than
not that no reasonable juror would have convicted him in the
light of the new evidence." Ante, at 327. But this is a
classic mixing of apples and oranges. "More likely than not"
is a quintessential charge to a finder of fact, while "no reasonable juror would have convicted him in the light of the
new evidence" is an equally quintessential conclusion of law
similar to the standard that courts constantly employ in deciding motions for judgment of acquittal in criminal cases.
The hybrid which the Court serves up is bound to be a source
of confusion. Because new evidence not presented at trial
will almost always be involved in these claims of actual innocence, the legal standard for judgment of acquittal cannot

SCHLUP v. DELO
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

be bodily transposed for the determination of "actual innocence," but the sensible course would be to modify that famil-.
iar standard, see infra, at 341-342, rather than to create a
confusing hybrid.
In the course of elaborating the Carrier standard, the
Court takes pains to point out that it differs from the standard enunciated in Jackson v. Virginia, 443 U. S. 307 (1979),
for review of the sufficiency of the evidence to meet the constitutional standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.
Under Jackson, "the relevant question is whether, after
viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt." Id.,
at 319. This standard requires a solely retrospective analysis of the evidence considered by the jury and reflects a
healthy respect for the trier of fact's "responsibility ... to
resolve conflicts in the testimony, to weigh the evidence, and
to draw reasonable inferences from basic facts to ultimate
facts." Ibid.
The Court fails to acknowledge expressly the similarities
between the standard it has adopted and the Jackson standard. A habeas court reviewing a claim of actual innocence
does not write on a clean slate. Cf. Barefoot v. Estelle, 463
U. S. 880, 887 (1983) ("Federal courts are not forums in which
to relitigate state trials"); Herrera v. Collins, 506 U. S. 390,
416 (1993) ("[I]n state criminal proceedings the trial is the
paramount event for determining the guilt or innocence of
the defendant"); Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72, 90 (1977)
("Society's resources have been concentrated at [the state
trial] in order to decide, within the limits of human fallibility,

the question of guilt or innocence of one of its citizens").
Therefore, as the Court acknowledges, a petitioner making a
claim of actual innocence under Carrierfalls short of satisfying his burden if the reviewing court determines that any
juror reasonably would have found petitioner guilty of the
crime. See ante, at 329; cf. Jackson, supra, at 318-319.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
REHNQUIST, C.

J., dissenting

The situation presented by a claim of actual innocence in
a federal habeas petition is obviously different from that presented in Jackson because the habeas court analyzing an "actual innocence" claim is faced with a body of evidence that
has been supplemented since the original trial. The reviewing court must somehow predict the effect that this new evidence would have had on the deliberations of reasonable jurors. It must necessarily weigh this new evidence in some
manner, and may need to. make credibility determinations as
to witnesses who did not appear before the original jury.
This new evidence, however, is not a license for the reviewing court to disregard the presumptively proper determination by the original trier of fact.
I think the standard enunciated in Jackson, properly modified because of the different body of evidence that must be
considered, faithfully reflects the language used in Carrier.
The habeas judge should initially consider the motion on the
basis of the written submissions made by the parties. As
the Court suggests, habeas courts will be able to resolve the
great majority of "actual innocence" claims routinely without

any evidentiary hearing. See ante, at 324. This fact is important because, as we noted in Sawyer: "In the every day
context of capital penalty proceedings, a federal district
judge typically will be presented with a successive or abusive habeas petition a few days before, or even on the day
of, a scheduled execution, and will have only a limited time
to determine whether a petitioner has shown that his case
falls within the 'actual innocence' exception if such a claim is
made." 505 U. S., at 341 (footnote omitted).
But in the highly unusual case where the district court
believes on the basis of written submissions that the necessary showing of "actual innocence" may be made out, it
should conduct a limited evidentiary hearing at which the
affiants whose testimony the court believes to be crucial to
the showing of actual innocence are present and may be
cross-examined as to veracity, reliability, and all of the other

SCHLUP v. DELO
SCALA,

J., dissenting

elements that affect the weight to be given the testimony of
a witness. After such a hearing, the district court would
be in as good a position as possible to make the required
determination as to the showing of actual innocence.
The present state of our habeas jurisprudence is less than
ideal in its complexity, but today's decision needlessly adds
to that complexity. I believe that by adopting the Sawyer
standard both for attacks on the sentence and on the judgment of conviction, we would take a step in the direction
of simplifying this jurisprudence. See Keeney v. TamayoReyes, 504 U. S. 1, 10 (1992) (noting the importance of uniformity in the law of habeas corpus). The Sawyer standard
strikes the proper balance among the State's interest in finality, McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467, 491-492 (1991), the
federal courts' respect for principles of federalism, see, e. g.,
Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 309 (1989) (plurality opinion),
and "the ultimate equity on the prisoner's side-a sufficient
showing of actual innocence," Withrow v. Williams, 507 U. S.
680, 700 (1993) (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). The Court of Appeals fully analyzed petitioner's new evidence and determined that petitioner fell way
short of "'showing by clear and convincing evidence [that]
no reasonable juror would find him [guilty of murder]."' 11
F. 3d 738, 743 (CA8 1993) (quoting Sawyer, supra, at 348).
I agree and therefore would affirm.
But if we are to adopt the Carrierstandard, it should not
be the confusing exegesis of that standard contained in the
Court's opinion. It should be based on a modified version of
Jackson v. Virginia,with a clearly defined area in which the
district court may exercise its discretion to hold an evidentiary hearing.
JUSTICE SCALIA, with whom JUSTICE THOMAS joins,
dissenting.
A federal statute entitled "Finality of Determination"-to
be found at § 2244 of Title 28 of the United States Code-

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

specifically addresses the problem of second and subsequent
petitions for the writ of habeas corpus. The reader of today's opinion will be unencumbered with knowledge of this
law, since it is not there discussed or quoted, and indeed is
only cited en passant. See ante, at 318, 320. Rather than
asking what the statute says, or even what we haye said the
statute says, the Court asks only what is the fairest standard
to apply, and answers that question by looking to the various
semiconsistent standards articulated in our most recent decisions-minutely parsing phrases, and seeking shades of

meaning in the interstices of sentences and words, as though
a discursive judicial opinion were a statute. I would proceed differently. Within the very broad limits set by the
Suspension Clause, U. S. Const., Art. I, § 9, cl. 2, the federal
writ of habeas corpus is governed by statute. Section 2244
controls this case; the disposition it announces is plain
enough, and our decisions contain nothing that would justify
departure from that plain meaning.
Section 2244(b) provides:
"When after an evidentiary hearing on the merits of a
material factual issue, or after a hearing on the merits
of an issue of law, a person in custody pursuant to the
judgment of a State court has been denied by a court of
the United States or a justice or judge of the United
States release from custody or other remedy on an application for a writ of habeas corpus, a subsequent application for a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of such person
need not be entertained by a court of the United States
or a justice or judge of the United States unless the application alleges and is predicated on a factual or other
ground not adjudicated on the hearing of the earlier application for the writ, and unless the court, justice, or
judge is satisfied that the applicant has not on the earlier
application deliberately withheld the newly asserted
ground or otherwise abused the writ."

SCHLUP v. DELO
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

A long sentence, but not a difficult one. A federal district
court that receives a second or subsequent petition for the
writ of habeas corpus, when a prior petition has been denied
on the merits, "need not ... entertai[n]" (i. e., may dismiss)
the petition unless it is neither (to use our shorthand
terminology) successive nor abusive. See also Habeas
Corpus Rule 9(b) ("A second or successive petition may be
dismissed if the judge finds that it fails to allege new or
different grounds for relief . . ."). Today, however, the
Court obliquely but unmistakably pronounces that a successive or abusive petition must be entertained and may not
be dismissed so long as the petitioner makes a sufficiently
persuasive showing that a "fundamental miscarriage of
justice" has occurred. Ante, at 316 ("[I]f a petitioner such
ag Sehlup premonts [adequate] evidence of innocence,., the
petitioner should be allowed to pass through the gateway
and argue the merits"); ante, at 319-321.1 That conclusion
flatly contradicts the statute, and is not required by our
precedent.
Our earliest cases, from an era before Congress legislated
rules to govern the finality of habeas adjudication, held that
successive or abusive petitions were "to be disposed of in the
exercise of a sound judicial discretion guided and controlled
by a consideration of whatever has a rational bearing on the
propriety of the discharge sought," and that when weighing
those considerations the district court could give "controlling
weight" to "a prior refusal to discharge on a like application."
Salinger v. Loisel, 265 U. S. 224, 231 (1924) (successive peti'The claim that "the Court does not, and need not, decide whether the
fundamental miscarriage of justice exception is a discretionary remedy,"
ante, at 333 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring), is not in my view an accurate
description of what the Court's opinion says. Of course the concurrence's
merely making the claim causes it to be an accurate description of what
the Court today holds, since the narrower ground taken by one of the
Justices comprising a five-Justice majority becomes the law. Marks v.
United States, 430 U. S. 188, 193 (1977).

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
SCALA, J., dissenting

tion); see also Wong Doo v. United States, 265 U. S. 239, 240241 (1924) (abusive petition). In Salinger the Court particularly noted: "Here the prior refusal to discharge [the
prisoner] was by a court of coordinate jurisdiction and was
affirmed-in a considered opinion by a Circuit Court of Appeals. Had the District Court disposed of the later applications on that ground, its discretion would have been well
exercised and we should sustain its action without saying
more." 265 U. S., at 232. Section 2244 is no more and no
less than a codification of this approach. It is one of the
disheartening ironies of today's decision that the Court not
merely disregards a statute, but in doing so denies district
judges the very discretion that the Court itself freely entrusted to them before Congress spoke.
In 1948 Congress for the first time addressed the problem
of repetitive petitions by enacting the predecessor of the
current § 2244, which provided as follows:
"No circuit or district judge shall be required to entertain an application for a writ of habeas corpus to inquire
into the detention of a person pursuant to a judgment of
a court of the United States, or of any State, if it appears
that the legality of such detention has been determined
by a judge or court of the United States on a prior application for a writ of habeas corpus and the petition presents no new ground not theretofore presented and determined, and the judge or court is satisfied that the
ends of justice will not be served by such inquiry." 28
U. S. C. §2244 (1964 ed.) (emphasis added).
This provision was construed in Sanders v. United States,
373 U. S. 1 (1963), and (with unimpeachable logic) was held
to mean that "[c]ontrolling weight may be given to denial of a
prior application for federal habeas corpus [under 28 U. S. C.
§ 2254] only if (1) the same ground presented in the subsequent application was determined adversely to the applicant
on the prior application, (2) the prior determination was on

SCHLUP v. DELO
SCAUA, J.,

dissenting

the merits, and (3) the ends of justice would not be served
by reaching the merits of the subsequent application." Id.,
at 15. Thus, there appeared for the first time in our decisions the notion that a habeas court has "the duty" to reach
the merits of a subsequent petition "if the ends of justice
demand," id., at 18-19-and it appeared for the perfectly

good reason that the statute, as then written, imposed such
a duty. And even as to that duty the Sanders Court added
a "final qualification" that the Court today would do well
to remember:
"The principles governing ... denial of a hearing on a
successive application are addressed to the sound discretion of the federal trial judges. Theirs is the major responsibility for the just and sound administration of the
federal collateral remedies, and theirs must be the judgment as to whether a second or successive application
shall be denied without consideration of the merits."
Id., at 18.
Three years after Sanders, however, Congress amended
§2244 to establish different finality rules for federal prisoner
petitions (filed under § 2255) and state prisoner petitions
(filed under §2254). Section 2244(a), which addresses petitions by federal prisoners, retains the "ends of justice" proviso from the old statute; but §2244(b) omits it, thus restricting the district courts' obligation to entertain petitions by
state prisoners to cases where the petition is neither successive nor abusive. One might have expected that this notso-subtle change in the statute would change our interpretation of it, and that we would modify Sanders by holding that
a district court could exercise its discretion to give controlling weight to the prior denial-which was of course precisely what Salinger envisioned.
Yet when the new version of §2244(b) was first construed,
in Kuhlmann v. Wilson, 477 U. S. 436 (1986), a plurality of
the Court announced that it would "continue to rely on the

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

reference in Sanders to the 'ends of justice,"' 477 U. S., at
451, and concluded that "the 'ends of justice' require federal
courts to entertain [successive] petitions only where the prisoner supplements his constitutional claim with a colorable
showing of factual innocence." Id., at 454. That conclusion
contains two complementary propositions. The first is that
a habeas court may not reach the merits of a barred claim
unless actual innocence is shown; this was the actual judgment of the opinion (one cannot say the holding, since the
opinion was a mere plurality). See id., at 455 (stating that
the District Court and Court of Appeals should have dismissed the successive petition because the petitioner's claim
of innocence was meritless). The second is that a habeas
court must hear a claim of actual innocence and reach the
merits of the petition if the claim is sufficiently persuasive;
this was the purest dictum. It is the Court's prerogative to
adopt that dictum today, but to adopt it without analysis, as
though it were binding precedent, will not do. The Kuhlmann plurality opinion lacks formal status as authority, and,
as discussed below, no holding of this Court binds us to it.
A decision to follow it must be justified by reason, not simply
asserted by will.
And if reasons are to be given, justification of the Kuhlmann opinion will be found difficult indeed. The plurality's
central theory is that "the permissive language of § 2244(b)
gives federal courts discretion to entertain successive petitions under some circumstances," so that "[u]nless [the] 'rare
instances' [in which successive petitions will be entertained]
are to be identified by whim or caprice, district judges must
be given guidance for determining when to exercise the limited discretion granted them by §2244(b)." See 477 U. S., at
451. What the plurality then proceeds to do, however, is not
to "guide" the discretion, but to eliminate it entirely, dividing
the entire universe of successive and abusive petitions into
those that must not be entertained (where there is no showing of innocence) and those that must be entertained (where

SCHLUP v. DELO
SCALIA, J.,

dissenting

there is such a showing). This converts a statute redolent of2
permissiveness ("need not entertain") into a rigid command.
The Kuhlmann plurality's concern about caprice is metas it is met for all decisions committed by law to the discretion of lower courts-by applying traditional "abuse-ofdiscretion" standards. A judge who dismisses a successive
petition because he misconceives some question of law, because he detests the petitioner's religion, or because he
would rather play golf, may be reversed. A judge who dismisses a successive petition because it is the petitioner's
twenty-second, rather than his second, because its "only purpose is to vex, harass, or delay," Sanders, supra, at 18, or
because the constitutional claims can be seen to be frivolous
on the face of the papers-for any of the numerous considerations that have "a rational bearing on the propriety of the
discharge sought," Salinger, 265 U. S., at 231 (emphasis
added)-may not be commanded to reach the merits because
"the ends of justice" require. Here as elsewhere in the law,
to say that a district judge may not abuse his discretion is
merely to say that the action in question (dismissing a successive petition) may not be done without considering relevant factors and giving a "justifying reason," Foman v.
Davis, 371 U. S. 178, 182 (1962). See also American Dredging Co. v. Miller, 510 U. S. 443, 455 (1994). It is a failure of
logic, and an arrogation of authority, to "guide" that discretion by holding that what Congress authorized the district
court to do may not be done at all.
The Court's assumption that the requirement imposed
by the Kuhlmann plurality should be taken as law can find
no support in our subsequent decisions. To be sure, some
cases restate the supposed duty in the course of historical
surveys of the area. See, e. g., McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S.
2 The

present case does not, of course, present the question whether the
Kuhlmann plurality was wrong to identify a category of petitions that
must not be entertained-a disposition that is at least compatible with the
text of §2244(b).

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)

SCALA, J., dissenting

467, 495 (1991) ("Kuhlmann . . . required federal courts
to entertain successive petitions when a petitioner supplements a constitutional claim with a 'colorable showing of
factual innocence"'). But if we are to lavish upon the verbiage of our opinions the detailed attention more appropriately reserved for the statute itself, more of the cases (and
some of the same cases) have described the miscarriage-ofjustice doctrine as a rule of permission rather than a rule of
obligation. See, e. g., Sawyer v. Whitley, 505 U. S. 333, 339
(1992) ("[Kuhlmann held that] the miscarriage of justice exception would allow successive claims to be heard"); McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 494 ("Federal courts retain the authority to issue the writ [in cases of fundamental miscarriage of
justice]"); id., at 494-495 ("If petitioner cannot show cause,
the failure to raise the claim in an earlier petition may nonetheless be excused if he or she can show that a fundamental
miscarriage of justice would result from a failure to entertain
the claim"); Murray v. Carrier,477 U. S. 478, 496 (1986)
("[W]here a constitutional violation has probably resulted in
the conviction of one who is actually innocent, a federal habeas court may grant the writ even in the absence of a showing of cause for the procedural default") (emphasis added in
all quotations).
Of course the latter cases provide as much or as little authority for the right reading of the statute as the former
provide for the wrong reading. The truth is that there is
simply nothing in this scattering of phrases, this handful of
silences and assumptions, by which even the conscience most
scrupulous in matters of stare decisis could count itself
bound either way; for in no case after Kuhlmann has the

question whether §2244(b) createsan obligationto entertain
successive or abusive petitions been necessary to the decision. In both Sawyer and McCleskey the Court affirmed
the judgments of lower courts that had dismissed the
petition. See Sawyer, supra, at 338; McCleskey, supra, at
503. Those decisions could not, and did not, announce as a

SCHLUP v. DELO
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

holding that refusal to entertain a petition can be reversible error.
Rather than advancing a different reading of the statute,
the Court gives in essence only one response to all of this:
that the law of federal habeas corpus is a product of "the
interplay between statutory language and judicially managed equitable considerations." Ante, at 319, n. 35. This
sort of vague talk might mean one of two things, the first
inadequate, the second unconstitutional. It might mean that
the habeas corpus statute is riddled with gaps and ambiguities that we have traditionally filled or clarified by a process
of statutory interpretation that shades easily into a sort of
federal common law. See, e. g., Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507
U. S. 619, 633 (1993). That is true enough. There assuredly
are, however, many legal questions on which the habeas corpus statute is neither silent nor ambiguous; and unless the
question in this case is one on which the statute is silent or
ambiguous (in which event the Court should explain why
that is so), the response is irrelevant. On the other hand,
the Court's response might mean something altogether different and more alarming: that even where the habeas statute does speak clearly to the question at hand, it is but one
"consideratio[n]," ante, at 319, n. 35, relevant to resolution of
that question. Given that federal courts have no inherent
power to issue the writ, Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch 75,
94-95 (1807), that response would be unconstitutional. See
U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 2.
There is thus no route of escape from the Court's duty to
confront the statute today. I would say, as the statute does,
that habeas courts need not entertain successive or abusive
petitions. The courts whose decisions we review declined
to entertain the petition, and I find no abuse of discretion in
the record. (I agree with THE CHIEF JUSTICE that they
were correct to use Sawyer v. Whitley, supra, as the legal
standard for determining claims of actual innocence. See

Cite as: 513 U. S. 298 (1995)
SCALIA,

J., dissenting

ante, at 334.)3 Therefore, "we should sustain [their] action
without saying more." Salinger,265 U. S., at 232.
For these reasons, I respectfully dissent.

8

Even if they were wrong in that, it would not be correct to conclude
that the judgment must necessarily be reversed. See ante, at 333-334
(O'CONNoR, J., concurring). Our habeas cases have not so held. See
Wong Doo v. United States, 265 U. S. 239, 241 (1924) (affirming even
though "the courts below erred in applying the inflexible doctrine of res
judicata"to dismiss an abusive petition, because "it does not follow that
the judgment should be reversed; for it plainly appears that the situation
was one where, according to a sound judicial discretion, controlling weight
must have been given to the prior refusal").

