OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

IN RE DOW JONES & CO., INC.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-369.

Decided December 5, 1994

The application of Dow Jones & Co., Inc., for a stay of the Court of Appeals' November 3, 1994, order filed "under seal," so that Dow Jones can

publish and report on the order and its contents, is moot. A later order
in which the Court of Appeals denied Dow Jones' motion for reconsideration and discussed the November 3 order and its contents was not filed
"under seal."

CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

On November 3, 1994, the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit, Division for Appointing
Independent Counsels, issued an order denying Dow Jones &
Company, Inc.'s (Dow Jones) "Motion for Disclosure of and
Access to Report of Former Independent Counsel Robert B.
Fiske." That order was filed "under seal," apparently to
prohibit Dow Jones from publishing or reporting on the
order or its contents. Dow Jones subsequently filed a motion to unseal the November 3, 1994, order (which has not
been ruled on) and a motion for reconsideration of the November 3, 1994, order.
On November 22, 1994, Dow Jones filed in this Court an
emergency application for stay of the November 3, 1994,
order, seeking permission only to publish and report on the
Court of Appeals' order and its contents. The following day,
the Court of Appeals denied Dow Jones' previously filed motion for reconsideration by an order in which it discussed the
November 3, 1994, order and its contents, and gave its rea1301

1302

IN RE DOW JONES & CO.
Opinion in Chambers

sons for refusing to release the report of Independent Counsel Fiske. This order was not filed "under seal," and there
is no indication that Dow Jones is prohibited from reporting
on or publishing this order. Because Dow Jones may report
on and publish this second order, which refers to the November 3, 1994, order and its contents, I believe that Dow Jones'
emergency application for stay is moot.

