1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion in Chambers

415 U. S.

HAYAKAWA ET AL. V. BROWN, SECRETARY OF
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY AND RESTRAINING ORDER

No. A-839.

Decided March 4, 1974

Application for stay of California Supreme Court's order denying
mandamus to require state officials to accept applicant's nomination papers as candidate for the United States Senate, and for
order restraining the officials from refusing to accept the papers,
is denied, where the application does not disclose whether the
state court's denial of mandamus rested on an independent "stat(
rather than a federal, ground.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, Circuit Justice.

Hayakawa desires to run for the Senate from California on the Republican ticket. He has until March 8,
1974, to file. When the County Clerk and Secretary of
State refused to accept his papers, he petitioned California's Supreme Court for a writ of mandamus. That
court on a 4-to-3 vote denied it, no opinion being written.
Hayakawa plans to apply for certiorari here from that
denial and meanwhile wants me to stay the order of the
.tlifornia Supreme Court denying mandamus, pending
the filing 'and disposition'of a petition for certiorari here.
His application also requests me to restrain the state
officials, from refusing to accept his nomination papers.
The barrier confronting the state officials is ยง 6401 of
the California Election. Code which prohibits a candidate
from being a candidate of one party when he has within
12 months been registered with another party. Cases
raising the constitutionality of provisions of that character are before the Court and not yet decided in No.
72-812, Storer v. Brown, and No. 72-6050, Frommhagei
v. Brown. It would seem at first blush that the present

-HAYAKAWA v. BROWN
1304

1305

Opinion in Chambers

case, being of the same kind as Storer and Frommhagen,
should 'be considered along vith them.
The difficulty is that I have no way of knowing
whether denial of the writ of mandamus rested on an
independent state ground. That is an extraordinary
writ, the issuance of which is traditionally discretionary.
It may be that one acquainted with the labyrinth of
California procedure would see the answer more clearly
than I do. Yet the federal question-our only fulcrum
in the case-has not yet surfaced in the litigation, as
denial of mandamus, without more, may'conceal a number of independent state grounds.
Application denied.

