FPC v. NEW ENGLAND POWER dO.
Syllabus

FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

No. 72-1162.

Argued December 3, 1973-Decided March 4, 1974

The Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1952 (the Act), authorizes each federal agency to prescribe a fee, charge, or price for
services provided by the agency "to or for any person (including groups . . .)," determined to be fair and equitable, consideration being taken of "direct and indirect cost to the Government,
value to the recipient, public policy or interest served, and other
pertinent facts . . . " Pursuant to the Act, the Federal Power
Commission imposed an annual assessment against all jurisdictional
electric utilities in proportion to their wholesale sales and interchange of electricity, and against all 'natural gas companies with
operating revenues of $1,000,000 or more in proportion to their
deliveries of natural gas in interstate commerce. On petitions for
review, the Court of Appeals set aside these annual charges, holding that whole industries are not in the category of those who may
be assessed under the Act, the thrust of which reaches only specific
charges for specific services to specific individuals or companies.
Held:
1. While the Act includes services rendered "to or for any person (including groups . . .)," since the Act is to be construed
to cover only "fees" and not "taxes," National Cable Television
Assn. v. United States, ante, p. 336, the "fee" presupposes an application for the agency's services, whether by a single company or
group of companies or the receipt of a specific beneficial service.
P. 349.
2. The Act is to be construed as authorizing a reasonable charge
to "each identifiable recipient for a measurable unit or amount of
Government service or property from which he derives a special
benefit," and as precluding a charge for services rendered "when
the identification of the ultimate beneficiary is obscure and the
services can be primarily considered as benefitting broadly the
general public." Pp. 349-351.
151 U. S. App. D. C. 371, 467 F. 2d 425, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court
DOUGI;AS,

415 U. S.

J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which

C. J., and STEWART, WHITE, and

REHNQUIST,

BURGER,

JJ., joined. MAR-

SHALL, J., filed
NAN, J., joined,

an opinion concurring in the result, in which BRENpost, p. 352. BLACKAIUN and POWELL, JJ., took no
part in the decision of the case.

Keith A. Jones argued the cause for petitioner. On
the brief were Solicitor General Bork, Leo A. Forquer,
and George W. McHenry, Jr.
Thomas M. Debevoisi and Stanley M. Morley argued
the cause for respondents. With Mr. Debe)oise on the
brief for respondent New England Power Co. were
William J.. Madden, Jr., and Jerome C. Muys. With
Mr. Morley on the brief for respondent Independent
Natural Gas Association of America were Jerome J.
McGrath and Francis H. Caskin. L. F. Cadenhead and
Melvin Richter were on the brief for respondent Tennessee Gas Pipeline Co., a division of Tenneco, Inc.

MR. JusTicE DouGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This 'case, companion io National Cable Television
Assn. v. United States, ante, p. 336, raises another important problem of construction of the provisions of the
Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1952, Tit. 5, 65
Stat. 290, 31 U. S. C. § 483a. The Federal Power Commission established filing fees under the Natural Gas Act
and under the Federal Power Act. These filing fees have
not been challenged. What was challenged were annual
assessments under both Acts, levied in an effort of the
agency to recoup some of the remaining costs under the
two Acts.
With respect to electric utilities, the Commission
determines each year the costs .of administering the
-,Federal Power Act. The costs associated with the
Conunission's efforts to. promote the co-ordination and

FPC v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO.
345

Opinion of the Court

reliability of nonjurisdictional electric systems are not.
included. The Commission also deducts from administration costs the costs associated with services rendered
to electric systems not subject to the Commission's jurisdiction and the amount received during the year from
filing fees. The remaining balance is assessed against
jurisdictional utilities ' in proportion to their wholesale
sales and interchange of electricity, In 1971 these companies had gross revenues of some $21 billion and net
income of nearly $4 billion. The annual assessment
challenged here involved 1973 and for all such electric
companies was $5 million or 0.024% of gross revenue
and 0.14% of net income.
As respects natural gas companies, the Commission
determines each year the costs of administering the
natural gas pipeline programs under the Natural Gas
Act, 52 Stat. 821, 15 U. S. C. § 717 et seq. These costs,
after deducting amounts received from filing fees, are assessed. agai t all natural gas companies with annual
operat gfevenues of $1,000,000 or more in proportion to
their deliveries of natural gas in interstate commerce.
In addition, all natural gas companies required to file an
annual report on their total gas supply (18 CFR § 260.7)
are assessed one-tenth of a mill for each thousand cubic
feet of new reserves of natural gas certificated each year
to support the cost of the producer certificate program.
1 Part I of the Federal Power Act covering licenses to hydroelectric companies, see 16 U. S. C. § 797 et seq., is not involved in
this litigation, only Parts II, 49 Stat. 847, 16 U. S. C. § 824 et seq.,
and III, 49 Stat. 854, 16 U. S. C. § 825 et seq. Moreover, the
"jurisdictional" aspect of a public utility's activities refers, inter alia,
to the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and to
the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce as
contained in § 201 of the Act, 49 Stat. 847, 16 U. S. C. § 824 et seq.,
the provision that filled the gap created by Public Utilities Comm'n
v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U. S. 83. See United States v.
Public Utilities Comm'n, 345 U. S. 295.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

The Commission in its report, 45 F. P. C. 440 and 964,
said as respects both electric utilities and natural gas
companies. that regulations have provided "the foundation for the sound financial condition which public utilities and natural gas companies have achieved." Id., at
445. It mentioned the "industry-wide recognition of
the benefits accruing from only one facet of the Commission's activities-the adoption of a uniform accounting system." Id., at 445 n. 5. The Commission, while
noting that its regulatory activities were .beneficial to
consumers, added that its actions
"have redounded to the benefit of both industries by creating the economic clinate for greater
usage of the services of the regulated companies
which in turn have further strengthened their financial stability and their ability to sell debt and equity
securities iequired for capital additions to meet everincreasing demands." Id., at 445.
As respects electric utilities it noted that its regime
was "system wide and beneficial" to the companies. Id.,
at 966. As respects natural gas pipelines it listed its
activities that were beneficial to them:
"the issuance of temporary certificates to expedite
deliveries, the elimination of indefinite price escalation provisions, and the. control over the quality of
natural gas to be delivered and the length of the
period in which supplies may be delivered where
advance payments are made by the pipelines." Id.,
at 967.
On petitions for review the Court of Appeals set aside
that portion of the Commission's order establishing
annual charges, 151 U. S. App. D. C. 371, 467 F. 2d 425.
The case is here on a petition for certiorari, 411 U. S.
981.

FPC v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO.
345

Opinion of the Court

The Act in question, 31 U. S. C. § 483a, authorizes the
head of each federal agency to prescribe a "fee, charge, or
price" for any "benefit, privilege,
license; permit, certificate, registration or similar thing of value . . .provided .. .by [the] Federal agency .. .for any person
(including groups, . . . corporations.. .)" which he determines "to be fair and equitable taking into consideration
direct and indirect, cost to the Government, value to the
recipient, public policy or interest served, and other
pertinent facts ...."
-The Court of Appeals held that whdle industries are
not in the category of those who may be assessed, the
thrust of the Act reaching only specific charges for specific services to specific individuals or companies. We
agree with the Court of Appeals.
The report on the Act, H. R. Rep. No. 384, 82d Cong.,
1st Sess., 2, states that "[t]he Committee is concerned
that the Government is not receiving full return from
many of the services which it renders to special benefi-!
ciaries" (emphasis added). It is true that the -Act
includes services rendered "to or -for any person (including groups ... )." But if we are to construe the Act to
cover only "fees" and not "taxes"-as we he]d should be
done in the National Cable Television case, ante, p. 336the "fee" presupposes an application whether by a single
company or by a group of companies. The Office of
Management and Budget (then known as the Bureau
of the Budget) issued a circular in 1959 2 construing
the -Act. -That circulai stated that a reasonable charge
"should be made to each identifiable recipient for a
measurable unit or amount of Government service or
property from which he derives a special benefit."' 3
2

Budget Circular No. A-25, Sept. 23, 1959.
3,The circular goes on to state that the services include agency
action which "provides special benefits . . . above and beyond those

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

415 U. S.

(Emphasis added.) The circular also states that no
charge should be made for services rendered, "when the
identification of the ultimate beneficiary is obscure and
the service can be primarily considered as benefitting
4
broadly the general public."
which accrue to the public at large .... For example, a special benefit
will be considered to accrue and a charge should be imposed when
a Government-rendered service:
"(a) Enables the beneficiary to obtain more immediate or substantial gains or values (which may or may, not be measurable in
monetary terms) than those which accrue to the general public
(e. g., receiving a patent, crop insurance, or a license to carry on
a specific business); or
"(b) Provides business stability or assures public confidence in
the business activity of the beneficiary (e. g., certificates of necessity
and convenience for airline routes, or safety inspections of craft) ; or
"(c) Is performed at'the request of the recipient and is above
and beyond the services regularly received by other members of the
same industry or group, or of the general public (e. g., receiving a
passport, visa, airman's certificate, or an inspection after regular
duty hours)."
4Since oral argument we have been advised by the Solicitor
General that of all federal -agencies "having industry-wide regulatory
•authority" there are two, other than the Federal Power Commission
and the Federal Communications Commission, which impose "annual
industry-wide fees analogous" to those in the instant case. The Solicitor General summarizes the actions of the other two federal agencies
as follows:
"The fee schedule of the Atomic Energy Commission is set forth
at 10 C. F. R. [§§] 17021 and 170.31 and was last revised on
October 29, 1973 (38 Fed. Reg. 30254-30255). Under that schedule, operators of nuclear power reactors are subject to a minimum
annual fee of $20,000 and operators of other nuclear facilities are
subject to -annual fees ranging "Yrom $8,500 to $215,000. Holders
of materials licenses are assessed annual fees of up to $27,000. The
Commission estimates that approximately $7 million will be recovered-from these annual fees in fiscal year 1974. The Commission's
fee schedule, including annual fees, was first adopted in 1968.
"The Securities and Exchange Commission imposes an annual

FPC v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO.
345

Opinion of the Court

We believe that is the proper construction of the Act.
Though it greatly narrows the Act from the dimensions
urged by the Commission, it keeps it within the boundaries of the "fee" system and away from the domain of
"taxes" toward which the Commission's "economic
climate" argument would lead. Some of the assessments
made by the Commission under its formula would be on
companies which had no proceedings before the .Commission during the year in question. The "identifiable
recipient" of a unit of service from which "he derives a
special benefit," to quote the Office of Management and
Budget, does not describe members of an industry which
have neither asked for nor received the Commission's
services during the year in question. A blanket ruling
by the Commission, say on accounting practices, may not
be the result of an application. But each member of
the industry which is required to adopt the new accounting system is an "identifiable recipient" of the service
and could be charged a fee, if the new system was indeed
beneficial to the members of the industry. There may
well be other variations of a like nature which would
warrant the fixing of a "fee" for services rendered. But
what was done here is not within the scope of the Act.
Hence the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN and MR, JUSTICE POWELL

took no part in the decision of this case.
fee of $100 on each of the approximately 1100 investment advisers
registered with it under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, 15
U. S. C. [§] 80b-1 et seq. See 17 C. F.'R. [§] 275.203-3 (b). This
fee was first adopted in 1972."
This statement covers only fees imposed under Tit. 5, 31 if. S. C.
§ 483a, not those authorized "under more specific grants of statutory authority."

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

MARSHALL,

J.

415 U. S.

MR. JusTicu MARSHALL, with whom MR. JUSTicE
BRENvNA joins, concurring in the result in No. 72-1"162

and dissenting in No. 72-948, ante, p. 336.
These -cases present two distinct issues involving interpretation of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act,
1952: first, whether sufficient "work, service, ... benefit, . . or similar thing -of value or utility" was conferred on the CATV operators or -utility companies to
warrant imposition of a fee under the statute; and,
second, whether, if a fee was justifiably imposed, the
amount of the fee was determined in accordance with
a proper interpretation of the statutory standard that
it be "fair and equitable taking into consideration direct
and indirect cost to the Government, value to the
recipient, public policy or interest served; and other
pertinent facts." 31 U. S. C. §483a.
The Court, however, fails to recognize that these issues
require independent analysis. Instead, permeating the
Court's opinions on both issues is an attempt to draw
metaphysical distinctions between a "fee" and a "tax."
I do not find this approach either helpful or appropriate;
whatever the label, the questions presented, in these
cases involve simply whether the charges assessed by the
Commissions were authorized by Congress. The Court's
approach merely beclouds its analysis, producing results
which seem to me inconsistent and affording guidance.,
to the agencies in setting their fee policies which might
be charitably described as uncertain. .
This approach is allegedly based' on the need to
construe the statute narrQwly to avoid constitiifional
difficulties. I do not believe that afiy serious question
of the constitutionality of the Act would be presented if
Congress had in fact authorized these charges. .. The
notion that the Constitution narrbwly confines the power
of Congress to delegate authority to administrative
agencies, which was briefly in vogue in the 1930's, has

FPO v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO.
345

Opinion of MAnsHrALL, J.

been virtually abandoned by the Court for all practical
purposes,' at least in the absence of a delegation creating
"the danger of overbroad, unauthorized, and arbitrary
application of criminal sanctions in an area of [constitutionally] protected freedoms," United States v. Robel,
389 U. S. 258, 272 (1967) (BREN NAN, J.; concurring).
This .doctrine is surely as moribund as the substantive
dire process approach of the same era-for which the
Court is fond of writing an obituary, e. g., Ferguson v.
Skrupa, 372 U. S. 726 (1963); North Dakota Pharmacy
Board v. Snyder's Stores, 41.4 U. S. 156 (1973)-if not
more so. It is hardly surprising that, until today's de"Lawyers who try to win cases by arguing that congressional
delegations are unconstitutional almost invariably do mote harm
than good to their clients' interests. Unrealistib verbiage in some
of the older judicial opinions should not now be taken seriously.
The effective law is in accord with a 1940 statement of the Supreme
Court: 'Delegation by Congress has long been recognized as necessary in order that the exertion of legislative power does not become
a futility.' TSunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381,
398 (1940).] Much of the judicial talk about requirement of standards is contrary to the action the Supreme Cburt takes when delegations are made without standards. The vaguest of standards
are held adequate, and various delegations without standards have
been upheld....
"In only two cases in all American history have congressional delegations to public authorities been held invalid: Neither delegation
was to a regularly constituted administrative agency which followed
an established procedure designed to afford the customary sAfeguards
to affected parties. The Panama case [Panama Refining Co. v.
Ryan, 293 U. S. 388 (1935)] was influenced by exceptional executive
disorganization and in absence of such a special factor would not
be followed today. The Schechter case [Schechter Poultry Corp. v.
United States, 295 U. S. 495 (1935)] involved excessive delegation
of the kind that Congress is not likely again to make. ...
"In absence of palpable abuse or true congressional abdication,
the non-delegation doctrine to which the Supreme Court has in the
past often paid lip service is without practical force." 1 K..Davis,
Administrative Law Treatise § 2.01 (1958) (footnotes omitted).

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

MiRsTALL, J.

415 U.S.

3ision, the Court had not relied upon Schechter Poultry
qorp. v. United States, 295 2U. S. 495 (1935), almost
since the day it was decided.
I have no doubt-and I suspect that a majority of
the Court would agree-that Congress could constitutionally authorize the Commissions to impose annual
charges of the sort involved here. Surely the congressionally prescribed standards, permitting imposition of
fees for work done or service or benefit provided if they
are "fair and equitable" taking into account "cost to
the Government, value to the recipient, [and] public
policy," are sufficiently definite to withstand any conceivable delegation objection. See, e. g., Yakus v.
United States, 321 U. S. 414, 423-427 (1944); Lichter v.
United States, 334 U. S. 742, 783-786 (1948). I therefore see no reason to construe the statute in an artificially narrow way to avoid nonexistent constitutional
difficulties.
Even on a neutral reading of the statute and its
legislative history, however, I am convinced that Congress did not intend to authorize industrywide annual
assessments like those at issue here. The movement in
Congress to encourage Government agencies to establish
fees to recover some of the costs of providing services
to special beneficiaries began in 1950 with a study of
the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Executive
Branch which culminated in a report to Congress on
"Fees for Special Services." S. Rep. No. 2120, 81st
Cong., 2d Sess. (1950). This report concluded that fees
should be charged for agency services the benefits of
which accrued wholly or primarily to special interests.
Id., at 3-4. In particular, the report pointed out that
the FCC "renders a tremendous variety of services, a
-The last time that the Court relied upon Schechter Poultry was
Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238 (1936).

FPC v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO.
345

Otinion of

MARSHALL,

J.

substantial number of which would lend themselves to
equitable fees." Id., at 4. The report listed the type
of services for which assessm6nt of fees would be appropriate: radio station construction permits, radio station
operating licenses and renewals, authorization of assignment or transfer of licenses, radio operator licenses, and
certificates of public convenience and necessity. Id.,
3
at 11.
On the other hand, the report was careful to point out
the limited nature of its recommendations. It emphasized that it was not proposing that Government regulation in general be made self-sustaining by shifting the
costs to those regulated:
"There has been no quarrel with the philosophy
governing the study that those who receive the
benefit of services rendered by the Government
especially for them should pay the costs thereof. In
the several staff reports and press releases which
.have been issued, occasion has been taken to reiterate that philosophy and to give reassurance that
there is no thought here to establish a system of fees
for fundamental Government services; but only to
explore the feasibility and fairness of shifting to
special beneficiaries the expense now being borne
for them by the taxpayers at large." Id., at 3.
These themes were reiterated during the 1951 hearings
which led directly to enactment of the Independent
Offices Appropriation Act, 1952. Hearings on Independent Offices Appropriations for 1952 before the
Subcommittee on Independent Offices of the House Committee on Appropriations, 82d Cong., 1st Sess. (1951).
The questions of the committee. members reflected their
3 Similarly, as to the Federal Power Commission, the report suggested that fees could be charged for issuance of licenses and certifficates of public convenience. Id., at 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of MARSHALL, J.

415 U. S.

concern that the regulatory agencies were not recouping
any part of the cost of services which benefited particular special interests. But it is apparent that the Committee had in mind imposition of fees for issuance of
licenses, id., at 281, 681, certificates of public convenience
and necessity, id., at 281, 524, and the like. And it was
recognized that in the absence of this sort of special
benefit, imposition of the cost of regulation on those
regulated represented a different philosophical approach,
as to which there had been in the past substantial resistance. Id., at 730.
The actual language of the Appropriation Act is quite
general, and is certainly capable of varying interpretations. But the intended content of the statute's authorization of fees to be charged for "any work, service publication, report, document, benefit, privilege, authority,
use, franchise, license, permit, certificate, registration or
..similar thing of value or utility" can be gleaned from
this legislative history. When the Committee Report
expressed its concern that "the Government is not receiving full return f;om many of the services which it renders
to special beneficiaries," H. R. Rep. No. 384, 82d Cong., 1st
Sess., 2 (1951), and suggested that "fees could be charged
for other services" "of the type here under consideration,"
id., at 3, I think that it contemplated imposition of
application fees, registration fees, and fees for grants of
licenses, permits, or other similar authorizations. This
interpretation is consistent with the statutory language,
with its long enumeration of specific, readily identifiable,
and discrete Commission actions for which fees can be
charged. This interpretation is consistent, -1,o. with
the explanation of the statute on the floor of the iouse
offered by Representative Yates, in which he cited the
award of franchises, licenses, certificates of public convenience and necessity, and construction permits as

FPC v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO.
345

Opinion of MARSHALL, J.

examples of benefits for which fees could appropriately be
charged by the FCC. 97 Cong. Rec. 4809 (1951).
I see nothing in the legislative history which suggests
any broader interpretation of the concept of "bene at"
under the Act. On the contrary, since the broader view
that the full cost of regulation should be assessed those
subject to the agency's jurisdiction in the absence of a
"special benefit" would have represented a controversial
policy choice, I think that the very lack of debate over
this provision of the Act and the ease with which it
passed compel the more limited interpretation. The
Committee Report itself noted that more "basic" changes
in ager-'y fee practice would have to await further study
by congressional committees and arlditional legislation.
H. R. Rep. No. 384, 82d Cong., 1st Sess., 2-3 (1951).
I therefore do not believe that the creation of an
"economic climate" which fosters the growth of a regulated industry is a sufficiently specific, discrete benefit
within the meaning of the Appropriation Act to justify
imposition of a fee. Nor do I think that this benefit is
conferred upon a sufficiently identifiable recipient to be
the basis for assessment of a fee. Accordingly, I agree
with the Court's construction of the Act, ante, at 349-350,
and concur in the result in this case.
I cannot agree, however, with the result in No. 72-948,
National Cable Television Assn. v. United States, ante,
p. 336. In view of the Court's conclusion in No. 72-1162,
I am.mystified. as to how the Court can reach its appf rent,
though completely unexplained, holding in .No. 72-948
that operators of CATVsystems may receive "special benefits" sufficient to sus t m imposition of an annual fee under the Appromiation Act. Ante, at 343. In 1970, when
the fees at issue here were established, FCC regulation of
CATV was quite limited. CATV operators did not receive
licenses or any similar authorization from the Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of MARSIiaLL, J.

415

U.S.

Rather, their franchises were generally awarded by state
authorities, to whom the CATV operators pay franchise
fees. Although FCC regulations prohibited carriage of
distant signals into larger television markets unless Commission authorization was obtained, 47 CFR § 74.1107
(1968),' carriage of local signals as well as distant signals
into smaller markets was permitted, unless objections
were raised, without the need for approval by the Commission. 47 CFR §§ 74.1105 (a), (c) (1968). Many of
the CATV operators against whom these annual charges
were assessed had no contact at all with-the Commission
during 1970, and some had never had any dealings with
the 'Commission. The only other FCC regulations of
CATV in 1970 pointed to by the Solicitor General are
reguldtions which prohibit telephone companies and television broadcasters from entering the CATV field.'
In my view, the mere existence of such regulation cannot justify the annual fees imposed in this case. While
these regulations may have been of some benefit to the
CATV industry in a very broad sense, I regard the FCC's
argument on this point as identical to the FPC's
4 It
Would seem clear that fees could appropriately be imposed
under the Appropriation Act in connection with application for or
issuance of such Commission. authorization. However, no such fees
are at issue In this case.
5
Extensive new regulations of CATV were promulgated in 1972.
37 Fed. Reg. 3280 (Feb. 12, 1972). These regulations prescribe
in considerable detail, the provisions of franchises granted by local
authorities to 9ATV operators, and also limit the franchise fees
which may be charged by the localities in which CATV statios
operate. Most important for present purposes, the new regulations
also provide that a CATV perator must obtain an FCC certificate
of compliance before commencing operations; existing cable systems
must obtain a certificate of compliance by March 31, 1977. 47 CFR
§ 76.11 (b) (1973). While these new regulations will undoubtedly
affect the questibn of the permissibility of .fees imposed for future
years, they cannot retroactively validate fees imposed for 1970.

FPC v. NEW ENGLAND POWER CO.

345

Opinion of MARSHALL,

J.

"leconomic climate" argument rejected by the Court
in No. 72-1162. I can see no specific benefit provided or
service rendered by the Commission on the order of the
grant of a license or certificate, processing of an appication, or even provision of a new and useful accounting
system. Nor do I believe that the benefits of FCC regulation have been conferred on any identifiable recipient;
I would think this a classic case where" 'the identification
of the ultimate beneficiary is obscure and the services can
be primarily considered as benefitting broadly the general
public.'" Ante, at 350.
I would therefore hold that the annual fees imposed in
both these cases were not authorized by the statute. But
since the Court apparently holds otherwise, and goes on
to discuss the standards to be applied by the FCC in
setting fees under the statute, I think it appropriate to
express my views on this issue. I cannot agree with the
Court that the only factor which the Commission may
consider in determining the amount of the fees is the
"value to the recipient." The statute provides that the
fee must be "fair and equitable taking into consideration
direct and indirect cost to the Government, value to the
recipient, public policy or interest served, and other pertinent facts." This is a perfectly clear and intelligible
standard, and I see no reason why, assuming a proper
occasion for imposition of a fee, the Commission is not
entitled to weigh each of the statutory considerations.
It may well be true that the Commission here gave undue
emphasis to one of the statutory factors, "cost to the
Government." But the Court's response, to require that
undue, seemingly exclusive reliance be placed on the
standard of "value to the recipient" is, in my opinion,
equally erroneous. It is also quite unrealistic and unworkable: How is the Commission to determine whether
to set the fee at 1%, 5%, or 507 of the "value to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion of

MARSHALL, J.

415 U. S.

recipient" unless it. is also free to consider such other
factors as "cost to the Government" and "public policy"?
I would leave the Comn'ission free to consider all the
statutory standards in setting its fees. Certainly the
Commission should be free to consider "cost to the Government,"' as well as the statutory mandate't-hat the
Commission "be self-sustaining to the full extent possible." It could not be clearer, from the language of
the statute and from its genesis, that Congress intended
these factors to be considered by the Commissions ii. setting their fee schedules. If the Court seriously believes
that this somehow presents a substantial constitutional
problem, then the constitutional issue should be squarely
faced and resolved; it should not be permitted to justify
the Court's rewriting of the statute contrary to congressional intent.
I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals
in No. 72-1162 and reverse the judgment in No. 72-948.

0 In my view, "cost to the Goverament" comprehends the cost of
FCC regulation of the industry as well as the cost of processing a
specific application. While the existence of such regulation is not
itself sufficient under the present statute to sustain imposition of a
fee, it will often be beneficial to the industry-as the Government's
"economic climate" argument suggests-and will play a role in
enhancing the "value to the recipient" of the license or other authorization. It is therefore neither unreasonable, nor inconsistent with
the statutory intent that the contribution of this regulation be
considered.

