NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. GOLDBERG.

85

Opinion of the Court.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GOLDBERG.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF

NEW YORK.

No. 256.

Argued March 20, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

Under an interstate bill of lading providing that the owner or consignee shall pay the freight and all other lawful charges on the property, and, that if upon inspection it is ascertained that the articles
shipped are not those described in the bill the freight charges must be
paid upon the articles actually shipped, held, that an innocent misdescription of the goods, placing them in a class entitled to a lower rate
under the carrier's filed schedules, merely imposed upon the shipper
or consignee an obligation to pay freight charges according to their
true character, and did not affect the liability of the carrier for a
failure to deliver, there being no clause exempting the carrier or limiting its liability in case of such misdeseription.
164 App. Div. 389, 221 N. Y. 539, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Mann, with whom Mr. Charles C. Paulding
was on the brief, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by respondent against
petitioner in the Supreme Court of New York to recover
damages equivalent to the value of certain goods shipped
in interstate commerce and lost in transit.

Plaintiff had

judgment in the trial court, which was affirmed by the
Appellate Division for the First Department (164 App.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Div. 389), and affirmed by the Court of Appeals without
opinion. [221 N. Y. 539.]
The facts are as follows: On September 17, 1912, a
firm of fur manufacturers in New York City caused to be
delivered to defendant there for transportation to plaintiff
at Cincinnati, Ohio, a case containing furs belonging to
plaintiff of the value of $693.75. When the case left the
consignors' possession it was marked with the name and
address of the consignee, and with the word "furs" conspicuously displayed. It was delivered to a local expressman, whose driver delivered it to defendant and made out
a bill of lading which defendant signed and upon which
the action depends. This bill of lading described the
goods as "One case D. G.," which admittedly means
"dry goods." The misdescription was the driver's mistake, not made with any intent to fraudulently misrepresent the nature of the merchandise shipped. Defendant's clerk who signed the bill of lading relied wholly
upon the representations of the driver as to the contents
of the case, not seeing the case itself; and, so far as appears,
no representative of defendant compared or had a convenient opportunity to compare the bill of lading with
the marks on the case. At the time of the shipment the
official freight classification filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission provided for a first-class rate for
dry goods (65 cents per hundred pounds), and a doublefirst-class rate ($1.30 per hundred) for furs. As a result
of the misdescription in the bill of lading, freight was
charged at the smaller rate applicable to dry goods, instead of the higher one applicable to furs. No valuation
was placed upon the goods, and no question of limitation
of liability to a stipulated value is presented.
Defendant admitted that it received the goods for
transportation, and that they were stolen in transit and
never delivered to the consignee.
Defendant insists that it is not liable in any amount

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. GOLDBERG.
85.

87

Opinion of the Court.

for loss of the goods, because they were misdescribed in
the bill of lading. Reliance is placed upon a line of decisions in this court relating to the limitation of liability
of an interstate rail carrier where goods are shipped at a
declared value at a rate based upon value and under a
contract conforming to the filed tariff. Adams Express Co.
v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 509; Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 650, et seq.; Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657, 670;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 232 U. S. 508, 515;
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Robinson, 233 U.
S. 173, 180; Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott,240 U. S. 632, 638.
The Appellate Division held that these cases did not
go to the extent of relieving the carrier from all liability
in case of a non-fraudulent misrepresentation as to the
nature of the merchandise shipped, and that since there
was no clause in the bill of lading exempting the carrier
or limiting its liability in case of such a misdescription
the carrier was defenseless.
Defendant's contention is that there is no responsibility
for loss of the furs that were shipped because they were
goods not of the same but of a different character than
those described in the bill of lading, and were goods for
the transportation of which a higher rate was established
by its filed schedules. Were there otherwise any difficulty
in answering this contention, it would be wholly relieved
by the fact that the precise contingency was anticipated
in the preparation of the form of the bill of lading and
provided for by one of its conditions, which reads as
follows: "The owner or consignee shall pay the freight
and all other lawful charges accruing on said property,
and, if required, shall pay the same before delivery. If
upon inspection it is ascertained that the articles shipped
are not those described in this bill of lading, the freight
charges must be paid upon the articles actually shipped."
Clearly, the effect of this is that a misdescription of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

character of the goods, not attributable to fraud, merely
imposed upon the shipper or consignee an obligation to
pay freight charges according to the character of the goods
actually shipped, and did not affect the liability of the
carrier for a failure to deliver the goods.
Judgment affirmed.

BROTHERS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 309. Argued March 28, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.
An unliquidated claim against the United States, under the Act of
June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, for the alleged infringement of
a patent is not assignable with the patent. Rev. Stats., ยง 3477.
P. 89.
The essential feature of patent No. 551,614, granted to Sarah E.
Brothers et al. for "improvements in cable cranes with gravity
anchors," is a non-yielding support or anchor at one end of the cable,
and a yielding, tilting, or rocking support at the opposite end, consisting of outwardly inclined shears or some equivalent structure
held movably at the base, and a counterweight on the outer side.
Id.
This patent was not infringed by the use of cableways supported
by two towers both of which were intended and constructed to be
rigid, but both of which, upon the tightening of the cables, done for
the purpose of enabling the loads to clear the work as its height increased, acquired a tendency to yield with the yielding of the railroad bed beneath them, under the increased stress. P. 93.
Findings of the Court of Claims are to be treated like the verdict of a
jury, and this court is not at liberty to refer to the evidence, any
more than to the opinion, for the purpose of eking out, controlling
or modifying their scope. Id.
52 Ct. Cims. 462, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

