LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WESTERN UN. TEL. CO.
360.

363

Syllabus.

States v. Hamburg-American Co., 239 U. S. 466; United
States v. American-Asiatic S. S. Co., 242 U. S. 537), the

decrees below should be reversed and the cases remanded
to the lower court with directions to set aside the decrees
and to substitute decrees dismissing the bills without
prejudice and without costs, because the controversy
which they involve has become moot and is no longer
therefore a subject appropriate for judicial action.
And it is so ordered.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIt COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

Nos. 176, 248.

Argued January 22, 23, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

The Mississippi practice providing for assessment of damages and
determination of the right of condemnation in separate proceedings
is consistent with due process. P. 365.
Consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment the state law may allow
condemnation for maintaining an existing telegraph line as well as
for building a new one. Id.
And where the judgment in condemnation is for a new line, the state
courts may, under the Amendment, reserve inquiry into an alleged
purpose to use it for maintaining an existing line, in alleged infraction
of the state law, until such use is attempted. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

A judgment of condemnation for a single telegraph line on a railroad
right of way is not void under the Fourteenth Amendment for failure
to describe the exact location of the poles, when it requires them to
be set so as not to interfere with train operations or the proper use
of the right of way by the railroad or by other telegraphs already
upon it, or endanger persons or property, and is subject to stipulations binding the condemnor to change its poles, etc., to conform to
necessary changes or new construction of tracks. P. 366.
Parts of an interstate railroad right of way and of bridges over navigable waters may be condemned for the use of a telegraph company
pursuant to the state law. P. 367.
The Post-Roads Act of July 24, 1866, waived any objection to such
exercise of state sovereignty as an interference with interstate
commerce, and no other act of Congress prevents. Id.
Whether the District Court properly dismissed a bill on the ground
of res judicata, held not necessary to determine where a correct
decision on the merits must have resulted the same. Id.
An injunction by a federal court forbidding a railroad company to interrupt a telegraph company in the use of its wires on the railroad right
of way during a certain period or until the telegraph company could
condemn, held binding on the federal court of another circuit. P. 368.
233 Fed. Rep. 82; 107 Mississippi, 626, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Gregory L. Smith, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone
was on the brief, for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. Rush Taggart for appellee and defendant in error.
Mu. JusTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These suits, the earlier begun in the District Court of
the United States, the later in a Court of the State of
Mississippi, are bills in equity containing the same allegations and seeking the same relief. They both seek a
decree that state judgments of condemnation by eminent
domain, giving to the telegraph company the right to
erect its poles along the railroad's right of way across the

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WESTERN UN. TEL. CO.
363.

365

Opinion of the Court.

State of Mississippi, are void. The state case was decided
first and was in favor of the defendant in error. 107
Mississippi, 626. Then in the District Court the telegraph company pleaded the state decree as a conclusive
adjudication and moved that the bill and a supplemental
bill be dismissed. Against the supplemental bill it also
set up an injunction in its favor granted by another Court
of the United States, reported in 201 Fed. Rep. 946, and
207 Fed. Rep. 1. The bills were dismissed upon both
grounds. 233 Fed. Rep. 82. 147 C. C. A. 152. The
constitutional questions raised are presented equally
in the state case and as we shall deal with them under
that, 107 Mississippi, 626, it may be assumed, subject to
those questions, that the other decision was right, as we
see no reason to doubt.
The Mississippi proceedings in eminent domain are
limited in their effect to determining the amount of damages to be paid. If the right to condemn is disputed that
is left to be decided by a suit in equity. Vinegar Bend
Lumber Co. v. Oak Grove & Georgetown R. R. Co., 89
Mississippi, 84, 105-107, 110, 113. The railroad company
resorted to such a bill in this case. So far as it alleged a
failure to comply with the state laws the state decision
is conclusive against it, and of course it cannot complain
of not being given a hearing simply because it is referred
for that hearing to a different suit from that in which the
value of the property is fixed. The separation is familiar.
United States v. Jones, 109 U. S.513, 519. Passing these
matters by, the first contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment alleged is that under the Mississippi laws
the right could be taken only for a new line, whereas the
bill avers that the telegraph company wanted the right
not for a new line but for the purpose of maintaining an
existing line that it had maintained theretofore under a
contract with the railroad now brought to an end. To
this the Supreme Court replied that, the judgments being

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

right upon their face, if the telegraph company attempted
to use them to maintain an existing line instead of a new
one its rights could be determined when the attempt was
made. The Fourteenth Amendment knows no difference
between the two purposes, and the extent to which the
telegraph company is confined to one of them under the
state laws is for the State Court to decide. No constitutional right is infringed when the State Court postpones
discussion until the attempt is made. The decree as well
as the opinion saves the railroad's right in that event.
It is argued that the judgments are void because they
do not fix the exact location of the telegraph poles within
the specified right of way. But they allow only one line
of poles to be set up, and require it to be erected "in such
manner and at such distance from defendant's [the railroad's] track as in no way to interfere with the operation
of trains of said defendants or with any proper and legitimate use thereof by defendants, or the use by any telegraph or telephone company now existing thereon, and
so as not to be dangerous to persons or property, and
subject to all the stipulations and agreements in said
petition contained." The petition contains an agreement
that if, after the erection of the poles, etc., "it should
become necessary for the said defendant to change the
location of its tracks, or construct new tracks, or side
tracks, where the same do not now exist, and for such
purpose to use and occupy that portion of said right of
way on which petitioner's poles are, or may be set, cross
arms placed thereon and wires strung, your petitioner
will, at its own expense upon reasonable notice from said
defendants, remove said poles, cross arms and wires to
such other point, or points, on said defendant's right of
way as shall be designated by said defendant." This
agreement is binding. Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Postal
Telegraph-Cable Co., 76 Mississippi, 731, 752, 753. The
description has been held to satisfy the requirements of

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WESTERN UN. TEL. CO.
363.

367

Opinion of the Court.

state law and it would be extravagant to say that the
Fourteenth Amendment made it bad.
It is contended that the State had no power to condemn for the use of the telegraph company any part of
the right of way of an interstate road or bridge over navigable waters. Support for the argument is sought in
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co.,

195 U. S. 540. That case shows, to be sure, that the Act
of July 24, 1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221; Rev. Stats., ยง 5263,
purporting to grant to any telegraph company the right
to construct and maintain lines along the post roads of
the United States and to cross navigable streams, did
not of itself give the right to appropriate private property.
But it equally shows that Congress gave its assent to the
acquisition of such rights in post roads by any means
otherwise proper, as against any objection that it was an
interference with interstate commerce, and such is the
implication of the cases. "State sovereignty under the
Constitution is not interfered with." Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S.1, 12.
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160,
169. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 207 Fed. Rep. 1, 11, 12. The present deci-

sion is enough to establish that the condemnation followed
the state law. See also Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph
Co. v. Yazoo & MississippiValley R. R.Co., 90 Mississippi,

686. No act of Congress prevents the state proceedings
having their intended effect.
We think it unnecessary to deal with the somewhat
meticulous objections to the form in which the Mississippi
decree was pleaded and proved in the District Court or
to repeat the answer of the defendant in error to the
contention that if proved it was not an adjudication. If
the bill in the District Court had not been disposed of by
the state decree it would be dismissed under our present
decision. Two days before the answer setting up the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

state decree the railroad filed a supplemental bill alleging
that the telegraph company had no longer any rights
except under the condemnation proceedings but that it
still was using its old line. The telegraph company pleaded
in reply an injunction, mentioned above, granted by
another Court of the United States, forbidding the railroad to interrupt the telegraph in the use of its wires upon
the railroad's right of way, the declared purpose being
to preserve the status quo for a certain time, or until the
condemnation could be carried out. 207 Fed. Rep. 1, 5.
If for any reason the supplemental bill does not fall with
the bill this earlier action in the Sixth Circuit (while it
stands, see 252 Fed. Rep. 29,) properly was regarded as
precluding contrary action in the Fifth.
Decrees affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. MINDS,
SURVIVING AND LIQUIDATING PARTNER OF
MINDS ET AL., LATELY TRADING AS BULAH
COAL COMPANY.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. MINDS
ET AL., TRADING AS BULAH COAL COMPANY.
ER OR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
Nos. 293, 294.

Argued April 23, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

In actions upon two closely related reparation orders, held that a mistake in the declarations transposing the awards, first discovered by
the District Court near the close of the trial, was subject to correction by amendment in that court's discretion. P. 370.
Where a railroad company, guilty of unlawful discrimination in car
distribution, for years contested the claims of the injured shippers,

