OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

250 U. S.

COMMERCIAL CABLE COMPANY v. BURLESON
ET AL.
COMMERCIAL

APPEALS

FROM

PACIFIC CABLE COMPANY v.
BURLESON ET AL.
THE

DISTRICT

COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 815, 816.

Argued March 7, 1919.-Decidcd June 9, 1919.

Appellants' suits to enjoin the Postmaster General from interfering
with their cable properties, upon the ground that requisition of these
by the President, followed by assumption of possession and control
by the defendant, was in excess or abuse of the power given by the
Joint Resolution of July 16, 1918, c. 154, 40 Stat. 904, and not
attended by adequate provision for compensation, became moot
when, by the President's authority, the properties were restored to
them, together with the revenues, admittedly sufficient compensation, derived therefrom during government operation. P. 362.
Apprehension that the alleged wrongs may be repeated and that the
revenues may be claimed by the United States, does not preserve
the justiciable quality of these cases. Id.
The dismissal of the bills by the District Court for want of equity,
upon a holding that compensation was adequately provided for,
and that the other objections were nonjusticiable, was such a rejection of the appellants' asserted right as necessitates a reversal with
directions to dismiss without prejudice and without costs. Id.
United States v. Hamburg-American Co., 239 U. S. 466.
255 Fed. Rep. 99, reversed.
THE

cases are stated in the oinion.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. William W.
Cook was on the briefs, for appellants.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Assistant to the
Attorney General Todd was on the briefs, for appellees.

COMMERCIAL CABLE CO. v. BURLESON.
360.

361

Opinion of the Court.

Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
By virtue of the Joint Resolution of July 16, 1918, [c.
154, 40 Stat. 904] considered in the Dakota Central Telephone Case, decided June 2, 1919, ante, 163, the President,
by proclamation dated November 2, 1918, [40 Stat. 1872],
assumed control, possession, and supervision "of each and
every marine cable system and every part thereof owned
or controlled and operated by any company or companies
organized and existing under the laws of the United
States, or any State thereof."
As in the case of the telephone lines, the proclamation
conferred authority upon the Postmaster General to
carry out its provisions. In the name of the President,
the Postmaster General then took possession and assumed
control of the cable lines owned by or under the control of
the two companies which are appellants on these records.
The companies thereupon filed their bills in the court
below to enjoin the Postmaster General or his representatives from interfering with their property because (1)
under the circumstances alleged the President had no
power to take possession and control of the cable lines;
(2) if he had such power, he was not justified in exerting
it under the conditions stated, and (3) as the result of the
failure to provide adequate compensation, the taking of
the cable lines was void for repugnancy to the Constitution. These propositions were based upon elaborate
averments concerning the subject-matter. On motion
of the defendants the bills were dismissed for want of
equity. The court held that as under the facts admitted the first two propositions raised no question of
power, but only charged a wrongful exercise of a discretion vested, they stated no ground for relief as the
subject was not justiciable, and that as to the third proposition there was no equity in the bill because the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

vision made for compensation met the constitutional
requirement.
By appeals, the cases were brought here and were
argued and submitted in March last. While they were
under advisement the United States directed attention
to the fact that by authority of the President all the cable
lines, with which the two corporations were concerned
and to which the bills related, had been turned over to
and had been accepted by the corporations and the Government hence had no longer any interest in the controversy. As the result of submitting an inquiry to counsel
as to whether the cases had become moot, that result is
admitted by the United States, but in a measure is disputed by the appellants for the following reasons: First,
it is said that as the taking over of the lines by the President was wholly unwarranted and without any public
necessity whatever, there is ground to fear that they may
again be wrongfully taken unless these cases now proceed
to a decree condemning the original wrong; and second,
that although it is true that during the operation of the
property while under the control of the Government all
the revenues derived from it were separately kept and
have been returned to the owners of the property-a result which financially is satisfactory to them-nevertheless, unless there is a decree in this case, the owners can
feel no certitude that the revenues may not be claimed
from them by the United States in the future.
But we are of opinion that these anticipations of possible danger afford no basis for the suggestion that the cases
now present any possible subject for judicial action, and
hence it results that they are wholly moot and must be
dismissed for that reason. In giving effect, however, to
that conclusion, we are of opinion that the decrees below,
which in substance rejected the rights asserted by the
complainants, ought not to be allowed to stand, but on the
contrary, following the well established precedents (United

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WESTERN UN. TEL. CO.
360.

363

Syllabus.

States v. Hamburg-American Co., 239 U. S. 466; United
States v. American-Asiatic S. S. Co., 242 U. S. 537), the

decrees below should be reversed and the cases remanded
to the lower court with directions to set aside the decrees
and to substitute decrees dismissing the bills without
prejudice and without costs, because the controversy
which they involve has become moot and is no longer
therefore a subject appropriate for judicial action.
And it is so ordered.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIt COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

Nos. 176, 248.

Argued January 22, 23, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

The Mississippi practice providing for assessment of damages and
determination of the right of condemnation in separate proceedings
is consistent with due process. P. 365.
Consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment the state law may allow
condemnation for maintaining an existing telegraph line as well as
for building a new one. Id.
And where the judgment in condemnation is for a new line, the state
courts may, under the Amendment, reserve inquiry into an alleged
purpose to use it for maintaining an existing line, in alleged infraction
of the state law, until such use is attempted. Id.

