PARKER v. RICHARD.
Counsel for Parties.

PARKER, PARKER, AS SUPERINTENDENT FOR
THE FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES, ET AL. v. RICHARD ET AL., CO-ADMINISTRATORS OF RICHARD.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 313, 563.

Argued April 24, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Under § 9 of the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, providing
"that the death of any allottee .
.
shall operate to remove all
restrictions upon the alienation of said allottee's land: Provided,
That no conveyance of any interest of any full-blood Indian heir in
such land shall be valid unless approved by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of said deceased allottee," lands
of a deceased full-blood allottee, descended to a full-blood heir and
not conveyed with the approval of such court, are "restricted lands"
in the sense of § 2 of the same act, which provides that leases of
"restricted lands" for oil, gas or other mining purposes may be made,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under rules and
regulations provided by him, and not otherwise. P. 238.
The fact that by the proviso of § 9, supra, Congress authorized a state
court-practically as a federal agency-to sanction conveyances,
does not affect the force and operation of the restrictions while they
remain. Id.
During the continuance of such restrictions, the duty to protect the
interests of the full-blood heir by supervising the collection, care and
disbursement of royalties arising from an oil and gas lease made
under § 2, remains with the Secretary of the Interior. P. 239.
245 Fed. Rep. 330, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for appellants.
Mr. Britton H. Tabor and Mr. James B. Lucas for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

Mn. JusTicE VAN DEvANTrr

250 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to enjoin two representatives of the
Secretary of the Interior-the Superintendent and the
Cashier of the Five Civilized Tribes-from collecting
future royalties on an oil and gas lease of land allotted
to a Creek Indian and to compel them to surrender
royalties already collected. In the District Court there
was a decree for the defendants, which the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed, one judge dissenting. 245
Fed. Rep. 330. The District Court then complied with
the mandate by entering a decree for the plaintiffs, and
this the Circuit Court of Appeals declined to disturb.
Appeals from the decisions of the latter bring the
case here.
The questions to be considered are whether the land
covered by the lease is land from which restrictions on
alienation have been removed, and whether the supervisory authority of the Secretary of the Interior over the
collection, care and disbursement of the royalties has
terminated.
The land was part of the Creek tribal lands and was
allotted under the Acts of March 1, 1901, c. 676, 31 Stat.
861, and June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat. 500, the allottee
being a minor and an enrolled Indian of the full blood.
In 1912, while he was yet a minor, the oil and gas lease
was given by his guardian, the lease being approved by
the court having jurisdiction of his estate and by the Secretary of the Interior. The allottee died in 1916, while
still a minor, and left his father, a full-blood Creek Indian,
as his only heir. Approximately $280,000 in royalties
have accrued under the lease--part before and part since
the allottee died. These royalties have been collected by
the defendants pursuant to the terms of the lease and the
regulations of the Secretary of the Interior and are being

PARKER v. RICHARD.
235.

Opinion of the Court.

held by them in trust under a provision in the regulations
which authorizes them to retain and care for such funds
"until such time or times as the payment thereof is considered best for the benefit of said lessor, or his or her
heirs." The plaintiffs are the administrators of the estate
of the deceased allottee.
By § 1 of the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312,
Congress declared that "all allotted lands of enrolled fullbloods, and enrolled mixed-bloods of three-quarters or
more Indian blood, including minors of such degrees of
blood, shall not be subject to alienation, contract to sell,
power of attorney, or any other incumbrance prior to
April twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and thirty-one,
except that the Secretary of the Interior may remove such
restrictions, wholly or in part, under such rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of the proceeds
for the benefit of the respective Indians as he may prescribe." There was no such removal in this instance and
it is conceded that at the date of the lease and at the time
of allottee's death the alienation of the land was still
restricted.
By § 2 of the same act Congress declared that "leases
of restricted lands for oil, gas or other mining purposes
.
may be made, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under rules and regulations provided
by the Secretary of the Interior, and not otherwise." The
lease was given under this provision and was to run for a
term of ten years and as much longer as oil or gas might
be found in paying quantity. It provided, conformably
to the regulations, that the Secretary of the Interior,
through his representatives, should supervise all operations under the lease, that the royalties thereunder should
be paid to his representatives, that, with exceptions not
material here, the regulations as then or thereafter in
force should be deemed part of the lease, and that in the
event restrictions on alienation should be removed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

supervision of the Secretary of the Interior over the lease
should be relinquished at once and all further royalties
thereunder should be paid to the lessor or the then owner
of the lands.
One of the regulations prescribed by the Secretary deals
with the payment to lessors, their guardians, heirs, etc., of
moneys collected as royalties by his representatives and
specially authorizes the latter, as before indicated, to
withhold such payment in whole or in part for such time
as may be in accord with the best interests of the lessor or
his heirs. It is under this regulation that the royalties
already collected are being retained. The record indicates
that a considerable portion of them has been invested in
interest-bearing bonds of the United States, but as the
propriety of this is not called in question, it may be passed
without further notice.
By the Act of 1908, which imposed the restrictions on
alienation and contained the leasing provision, Congress
further declared, in §9, "that the death of any allottee
*
. shall operate to remove all restrictions upon
the alienation of said allottee's land: Provided, That no
conveyance of any interest of any full-blood Indian heir
in such land shall be valid unless approved by the court
having jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of said
deceased allottee." In the absence of the proviso it would
be very plain that on the death of the allottee all restrictions on the alienation of the land allotted to him were
removed. But the proviso is there and cannot be disregarded. It obviously limits and restrains what precedes
it. In exact words it puts full-blood Indian heirs in a
distinct and excepted class and forbids any conveyance of
any interest of such an heir in such land unless it be
approved by the court named. In other words, as to
that class of heirs the restrictions are not removed but
merely relaxed or qualified to the extent of sanctioning
such conveyances as receive the court's approval. Con.

PARKER v. RICHARD.
235.

Opinion of the Court.

veyances without its approval fall within the ban of the
restrictions. That the agency which is to approve or not
is a state court is not material. It is the agency selected
by Congress and the authority confided to it is to be exercised in giving effect to the will of Congress in respect
of a matter within its control. Thus in a practical sense
the court in exercising that authority acts as a federal
agency; and this is recognized by the Supreme Court of
the State. Marcy v. Board of Commissioners,45 Oklahoma,
1. Plainly, the restrictions have the same force and operate in the same way as if Congress had selected another
agency, exclusively federal, such as the Superintendent
of the Five Civilized Tribes.
In cases presenting the question whether lands inherited
from allottees by full-blood Indian heirs are freed from
restrictions by § 9, and thus brought within another provision in the same act declaring that land "from which
restrictions have been or shall be removed" shall be taxable and subject to other civil burdens, the Supreme Court
of the State and the federal court of that district have
both held that under the proviso such land remains restricted in the hands of the full-blood heirs, and so is not
within the taxing provision. Marcy v. Board of Commissioners, supra; United States v. Shock, 187 Fed. Rep. 870.
Entertaining a like view of the proviso, we conclude
that the land covered by the lease is still restricted land.
As to the other question this is the situation:
Under the Act of 1908, as already shown, leases of
''restricted lands" for oil and gas mining may be made
with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under
regulations prescribed by him, "and not otherwise."
The present lease was made and approved under that
provision. The land was then restricted and the restrictions have not since been removed. Thus the event
which the regulations and the lease declare shall terminate
the supervision by the Secretary of the Interior of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

collection, care and disbursement of the royalties has not
occurred. Nor has the occasion for some supervision disappeared. The heir is a full-blood Indian, as was the
allottee, and is regarded by the act as in need of protection, as was the allottee. In the absence of some provision
to the contrary the supervision naturally falls to the Secretary of the Interior. Rev. Stat., §§ 441, 463. West v.
Hitchcock, 205 U. S. 80, 85. And see Catholic Bishop of
Nesqually v. Gibbon, 158 U. S. 155, 166. There is nothing
to the contrary in the leasing provision or in any other of
which we are aware. True, it is possible under the proviso in § 9 for the heir, if the court approves, to sell and
convey his interest in the land. But that has not been
done, and it well may be that the heir will remain the owner
until the restrictions expire in regular course-April 26,
1931. There is nothing in the proviso indicating that it
is intended in the meantime to take from the Secretary
or to commit to the court the supervision of matters
pertaining to the lease or the royalties. A purpose to do
that doubtless would be plainly expressed.
In this situation we think the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to supervise the collection, care and
disbursement of the royalties has not terminated.
Criticism is made of some of the regulations, but all
that are material here seem to be well within the limits of
the Secretary's authority, and the acts of his representatives in respect of the lease and the royalties, so far as
questioned here, seem to be well within the regulations.
It results that the original decree in the District Court
was right and should stand, and that the second decree
in that court and those in the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed.
Decrees reversed.

