NORTHERN PAC. BY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.

135

Syllabus.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET
AL. v. STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA ON THE RELATION OF LANGER, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.
No. 976.

Argued May 5, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Under the "Federal Control Act" of March 21, 1918, c. 25,40 Stat. 451,
railroads taken over and administered under the war power pursuant
to the Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418, 39 Stat. 645, and the President's
Proclamation of December 26, 1917, are in the full possession and
control of the Federal Government, and that Government is granted
the power through the President and the Interstate Commerce Commission to fix the rates on intrastate traffic, superseding the state
power over that subject. P. 148.
The Federal Control Act being an exercise of a complete, exclusive
and necessarily paramount federal power (the war power) and its
provision for a complete change to federal control being clear and
unambiguous, there can be no room for a presumption that state
control over intrastate rates was to remain unchanged because it
previously existed. P. 149. Reagan v. Mercantile Trust Co., 154
U. S. 413, distinguished.
Under § 10 of the Federal Control Act, the power of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to consider rates, like the power of the President to initiate them, relates to both classes-intrastate and interstate. P. 151.
The declaration of § 15 that nothing in the act shall be construed to
amend, repeal, impair, or affect the existing laws or powers of the
States in relation to taxation or "the lawful police regulations of the
several States," except wherein such laws, powers, or regulations
may affect the transportation of troops, etc., or "the issue of stocks
and bonds," cannot be interpreted as withholding the power to initiate intrastate rates under § 10. Id.
Where the acts of a federal official are sought to be restrained in a
state court, as invasions of state power, there is jurisdiction, if the
claim be not frivolous, to pass upon their legality, although, if

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

legal, their restraint would affect directly the interests of the
United States, which cannot be impleaded; and where the decision
is against their legality, this court, finding it erroneous, has
jurisdiction to reverse the resulting judgment upon the merits.
P. 152.
172 N. W. Rep. 324, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Barton Payne and Mr. Charles Donnelly,
with whom The Solicitor General and Mr. R. V. Fletcher
were on the brief, for the Director General of Railroads,
maintained that the war power, limited only by the needs
of the Government and independent of state lines, supported the action taken; that the act in letter and spirit
shows a purpose to bring about a unified federal control,
utterly inconsistent with the retention of state power
over intrastate rates; and that the proviso saving "lawful
police regulations" (§ 15) must be read accordingly, and
subject to the particular provisions of § 10 expressly
allowing the President to initiate rates, etc. The words
"police regulations" are used here in contrast with
"laws and powers" as applied to taxation; they include regulations for safety, health, etc. The railroads
became federal agencies, not subject to state police
power.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn filed a brief on behalf of the Northern Pacific Railway Co.
Mr. Frank E. Packard,with whom Mr. William Langer,
Attorney General of the State of North Dakota, and
Mr. W. V. Tanner were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
Railroads built under acts of Congress and aided by
government lands and bonds for the purpose of securing
the use and benefit of such railroads for postal and military

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

137

Argument for Defendant in Error.

purposes are subject to the state power to tax, Thomson
v. Union Pacific Ry. Co., 9 Wall. 579; Union Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; and of eminent domain and
of regulation. Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Burlington &
Missouri River Ry. Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 106, and Union
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Leavenworth N. & S. Ry. Co., 29 Fed.
Rep. 728.
The power to regulate and the power to tax are inherent in sovereignty-the power to tax being the more
drastic of the two. Therefore, as the power to tax may
be exercised in respect to the agency or instrumentality
of the Federal Government, the power to regulate can
likewise be exercised by the State. This was the rule laid
down in Reagan v. Mercantile Trust Co., 154 U. S. 413,
where it was held that, in the absence of an express exemption from state control, it must be assumed that Congress intended the corporation to be subject to the ordinary control exercised by the State. In Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, a statute involving railroad rates was held
constitutional as applied to the Union Pacific Railroad,
a government agent and instrumentality.
We think it a fair inference from the decided cases, to
assume that the rail control acts involve no question of
conflict between state and federal powers. The question
here is not merely one of the existence of inherent power'
either in the National Government or in the States, but
the purpose manifested by Congress to exert its powers
to the exclusion of that of the States. The question of
the extent to which the laws of the State have been superseded by the acts of Congress must be determined from
the nature of the provisions of each and the extent to
which they are in conflict. This court has repeatedly
announced the rule that the question of conflict is to be
determined by the ordinary rules of statutory construction and that it should not be held that the state legislation has been superseded except in cases of manifest

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

repugnancy. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 148; Missouri &c. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 623.
Congress in § 10 of the Act of 1918 expressly states its
intent that the carriers shall be subject to the provisions
of existing law, except (1) where such laws are inconsistent with the provisions of the act or any other act applicable to federal control, and (2) except where such laws
are inconsistent with any order of the President. Thus
we find the rule written into the statute itself.
The power vested in the President to initiate rates is
not inconsistent with the laws of the State relating to the
filing and establishment of rates. The use of the word
"initiate" in defining the power of a public agency is new,
but manifestly it is used in the sense of proposing a rate
rather than in the sense of fixing or establishing the rate.
Under federal laws and in most of the States, carriers have
had the power to initiate rates. This, however, has never
been regarded as inconsistent with the fixing and establishment of rates by conmmissions nor with the obligation to
comply with provisions of law respecting the filing and
publication of the rates so initiated. Nor is an inconsistency created by the provision for the filing of the rates
initiated by the President with the Interstate Commerce
Commission. Prior to federal control rates initiated by
the carriers were required to be filed with the state commissions and the Interstate Commerce Commission, and,
as pointed out, since the initiation of the rate is not the
fixing of that rate, there is no inconsistency in permitting
a rate to be initiated by filing it with the Interstate Commerce Commission and the concurrent requirement of
compliance with state laws upon the subject.
The absence of an express provision in § 10 saving the
power of the States to act through the state commissions
in cases involving intrastate rates is explained by the provision of § 15 saving the police power of the States. Having preserved to the States their right to make police

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

139

Argument for Defendant in Error.

regulations (with certain exceptions), it was wholly unnecessary to expressly save the jurisdiction of the state
authorities as was done in the case of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
The provision in § 10 would support a theory that Congress had in mind the idea of the use of the railroads as a
vehicle of taxation for the support of the war, and that, regarded as such an instrument, the power of the President in
the initiation of rates was unlimited. In view, however, of
the provision of the section making "justness and reasonableness" the basis of the Commission's action, we
do not believe the taxation theory can be maintained.
Certainly those provisions of the Federal Control Act
with relation to the exercise by the Interstate Commerce
Commission of the powers now possessed by that body,
although modified by the existence of federal control,
cannot be held to be inconsistent to the point of conflict
with the existence of state laws regulating the publication
and fixing of "reasonable rates for its exclusively internal
traffic." Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352. The provisions of the Federal Control Act, in so far as they affect
the Interstate Commerce Commission, are purely restrictions or limitations upon the power of that tribunal.
These provisions evidence no intent upon the part of Congress to broaden the powers of the Commission or to
extend its authority over intrastate rates. It may be contended that by reason of the provision for the taking over
of all the revenues of the carriers under federal control Congress intended to assume authority to fix all rates, interstate and intrastate. It should be remembered that a
carrier is entitled to receive reasonable rates and that this
right cannot be denied by a State, either through a commission or otherwise.
The question is as to the power in the matter of purely
intrastate rates. The Government claims that the war
emergency justified the exercise of the supreme power of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

the Federal Government. Assume that it did. This is
no reason why the law should not have said so.
The intent of Congress not to interfere with the right
of the States to establish reasonable intrastate rates is
evidenced by § 15 of the act.
As early as Chicago & Northwestern R. R. Co. v. Fuller,
17 Wall. 560, it was held that railroad regulatory legislation was an exercise of the police power. See also Munn
v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia
Public Service Corporation, 248 U. S. 372, 374, 375.
It would seem unnecessary to examine the multitudinous
definitions of the expressions "police powers" or "police
regulations." We think the intent of Congress is apparent
from the language of the proviso itself. The fact that
Congress deemed it necessary to except police regulations
affecting "the issue of stocks and bonds" shows that Congress deemed such laws to be police regulations. This is
not consistent with the use of the term in its narrower
sense. Evidently Congress had in mind the so-called
Blue Sky Laws in force in various States, and felt it
necessary that the carriers and the Government should
be exempt from such laws during the emergency. Such
a law was before this court in Union Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 248 U. S. 67. Laws of this
character, however, are not included within the narrower
definitions of police powers or police regulations.
It is true that in its narrower sense police power is
sometimes regarded as including measures for the protection of the public morals, and that one of the purposes
of Blue Sky legislation is to prevent fraud. The paramount purpose of such laws, however, is to insure business
prosperity and promote the economic welfare of the State.
State regulation of local rates does not "affect the
transportation of troops, war materials (or) Government
supplies."
The President has not been vested with authority to set

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

141

Opinion of the Court.

aside state laws, whenever he thinks it necessary to do so,
for purposes connected with the war or for purposes connected only with the ordinary administration of railroad
affairs. The act subordinates state laws to such orders as
the President is validly authorized to make by the Act
of March 21, 1918, and the Act of August 29, 1916. Any
order not so authorized would be of no effect. This is
the interpretation stated on the floors of Congress by the
member in charge of the bill. 56 Cong. Rec., p. 3497.
The legislative history of the Federal Control Act shows
that under the intention of Congress the States were to
retain their power to regulate local rates. S. 3752;
ff. R. 9685; 56 Cong. Rec., pp. 1685, 1857, 1939, 1940,
1944, 2337, 2519, 2835.
When a proposed act as introduced in the legislature
establishes one rule (e. g., broadly empowers the President
to fix rates), and during its progress through that body is
changed so that, giving the words used their ordinary
definite meaning, the act means something else (e. g., intrastate rates to be fixed by local authorities), that fact
is of the greatest importance in determining the intention
of the legislature.
Mr. Charles E. Elmquist, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curice on behalf of thirty-seven States and the
National Association of Railway and Utilities Commissioners.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In taking over the railroads from private ownership to
its control and operation, was the resulting power of the
United States to fix the rates to be charged for the transportation services to be by it rendered subordinated to the
asserted authority of the several States to regulate the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

rates for all local or intrastate business, is the issue raised
on this record. It arises from the allowance by the court
below of a peremptory writ of mandamus commanding
the Director General of the Railroads, appointed by the
President, and the officers of the Northern Pacific Railway
Company to desist from charging for transportation in
intrastate business in North Dakota the rates fixed by the
United States for such services. When this command was
obeyed, the mandamus ordered that the Director General
should thereafter exact for the services stated only lesser
rates which were fixed in a schedule on file with the State
Utilities Commission prior to the bringing of suit and which
rates under the law of North Dakota could not be changed
without the approval of the Utilities Commission. In the
opinion of the court below it was stated that all the parties
admitted that there was no question as to the jurisdiction
to consider the controversy and that they all also agreed
that no contention was presented as to the power of Congress to enact the law upon which the controversy depended, as the correct interpretation of such law was the
only issue to be decided. We consequently put those
subjects temporarily out of view. We say temporarily,
since, even upon the assumption that issues concerning
them necessarily inhere in the cause and cannot be waived
by the parties, we could not decide concerning such issues
without interpreting the statute, which we proceed to do.
On the 29th of August, 1916 (39 Stat. 645), Congress
.
to
gave the President power "in time of war
take possession and assume control of any system or systems of transportation, or any part thereof, and to utilize
the same, to the exclusion as far as may be necessary of
all other traffic thereon, for the transfer or transportation
of troops, war material and equipment, or for such other
purposes connected with the emergency as may be needful
or desirable." War with Germany was declared in April,
1917, and with Austria on December 7th of the same year

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

143

Opinion of the Court.

(40 Stat. 1; ib. 429). On December 26, 1917, the President,
referring to the existing state of war and the power with
which he had been invested by Congress in August, 1916,
proclaimed that:
"Under and by virtue of the powers vested in me by
the foregoing resolutions and statute, and by virtue of all
other powers thereto me enabling, [I] do hereby
take possession and assume control at 12 o'clock noon on
the twenty-eighth day of December, 1917, of each and
every system of transportation and the appurtenances
thereof located wholly or in part within the boundaries of
the continental United States and consisting of railroads,
and owned or controlled systems of coastwise and inland
transportation, engaged in general transportation, whether
operated by steam or by electric power, including also
terminals, terminal companies and terminal associations,
sleeping and parlor cars, private cars and private car
lines, elevators, warehouses, telegraph and telephone lines
and all other equipment and appurtenances commonly
used upon or operated as a part of such rail or combined
rail and water systems of transportation ;-to the end that
said systems of transportation be utilized for the transfer
and transportation of troops, war material and equipment,
to the exclusion so far as may be necessary of all other
traffic thereon; and that so far as such exclusive use be
not necessary or desirable, such systems of transportation
be operated and utilized in the performance of such other
services as the national interest may require and of the
usual and ordinary business and duties of common carriers." [40 Stat. 1733.]
By the proclamation a Director General of Railroads
was appointed with full authority to take possession and
control of the systems embraced by the proclamation and
to operate and administer the same. To this end the
Director General was given authority to avail himself
of the services of the existing railroad officials, boards of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

directors, receivers, employees, etc., who were authorized
to continue to perform their duties in accordance with
their previous authority "until and except so far as said
Director shall from time to time by general or special
orders otherwise provide." Limited by the same qualification the systems of transportation taken over by the
Government were made subject to existing statutes and
orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and to all
statutes and orders of regulating commissions of the various
States in which said systems or any part thereof might
be located. In addition, however, to the limitation previously stated the proclamation in express terms declared:
"But any orders, general or special, hereafter made by
said Director, shall have paramount authority and be
obeyed as such."
The proclamation imposed the duty upon the Director
General to negotiate with the owners of the railroad
companies for an agreement as to compensation for the
possession, use and control of their respective properties
on the basis of an annual guaranteed compensation and
with reservations in the interest of creditors, bondholders,
etc. The proclamation in concluding declared that "from
and after twelve o'clock on said twenty-eighth day of
December, 1917, all transportation systems included in
this order and proclamation shall conclusively be deemed
within the possession and control of said Director without
further act or notice." Carrying out the authority exerted
by the proclamation, the railroads passed into the possession, control and operation of the Director General.
On March 21, 1918, dealing with the subject, Congress
passed a law entitled "An Act To provide for the operation
of transportation systems while under Federal control,
for the just compensation of their owners, and for other
purposes." [C. 25,40 Stat. 451.] The opening sentences of
the act declared: "That the President, having in time of
war taken over the possession, use, control, and operation

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

145

Opinion of the Court.

(called herein Federal control) of certain railroads and
systems of transportation (called herein carriers), is hereby
authorized to agree with and to guarantee to any such
carrier making operating returns to the Interstate Commerce Commission, that during the period of such Federal
control it shall receive as just compensation an annual sum,
payable from time to time in reasonable installments, for
each year and pro rata for any fractional year of such
Federal control, not exceeding a sum equivalent as nearly
as may be to its average annual railway operating income
for the three years ended" June 30, 1917.
Without going into detail it suffices to say that the
first eight sections of the act comprehensively provided
for giving effect to the purposes just stated and in a general way contemplated affording what was deemed to be
just compensation to the owners for the use of their property. In addition it empowered agreements in the interest of security holders of the railroads and sanctioned
provisions deemed fair to the United States and to the
owners of the property for betterments which might be
required to be made during the term of control and for the
return of the property when the government possession
came to an end, which return was to be accomplished
within a stated period after the cessation of war by the
proclamation of the ratification of a peace treaty.
Beyond doubt also, for the purpose of enabling the
United States to perform the obligations which it assumed
and to secure it from ultimate loss from the pecuniary
responsibilities which might result, including the repayment to it of an appropriation of $500,000,000 which the
act made applicable, all the earnings of the railroads were
by the act expressly made the property of the United
States.
The remaining eight sections of the act need not be
stated; but as § 10, which expressly provides for the power
to fix rates, and § 15, making certain reservations concern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

ing the powers granted, were greatly relied upon in the
opinion below and in the argument at bar, we reproduce
in the margin the more relevant portions of § 10 and the
text of § 15.1
' "Section 10. . . .That during the period of Federal control,
whenever in his opinion the public interest requires, the President may
initiate rates, fares, charges, classifications, regulations, and practices
by filing the same with the Interstate Commerce Commission, which
said rates, fares, charges, classifications, regulations, and practices
shall not be suspended by the commission pending final determination.
"Said rates, fares, charges, classifications, regulations, and practices
shall be reasonable and just and shall take effect at such time and upon
such notice as he may direct, but the Interstate Commerce Commission
shall, upon complaint, enter upon a hearing concerning the justness and
reasonableness of so much of any order of the President as establishes
or changes any rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice
of any carrier under Federal control, and may consider all the facts
and circumstances existing at the time of the making of the same. In
determining any question concerning any such rates, fares, charges,
classifications, regulations, or practices or changes therein, the Interstate Commerce Commission shall give due consideration to the fact
that the transportation systems are being operated under a unified
and co6rdinated national control and not in competition.
"After full hearing the commission may make such findings and
orders as are authorized by the Act to regulate commerce as amended,
and said findings and orders shall be enforced as provided in said
Act: Provided, however, That when the President shall find and certify
to the Interstate Commerce Commission that in order to defray the
expenses of Federal control and operation fairly chargeable to railway
operating expenses, and also to pay railway tax accruals other than
war taxes, net rents for joint facilities and equipment, and compensation to the carriers, operating as a unit, it is necessary to increase the
railway operating revenues, the Interstate Commerce Commission in
determining the justness and reasonableness of any rate, fare, charge,
classification, regulation, or practice shall take into consideration said
finding and certificate by the President, together with such recommendations as he may make."
"Sec. 15. That nothing in this Act shall be construed to amend,
repeal, impair, or affect the existing laws or powers of the States in
relation to taxation or the lawful police regulations of the several States,

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

147

Opinion of the Court.

On May 25, 1918, the Director General made an order
establishing a schedule of rates for all roads under his
control and covering all classes of service, intrastate as
well as interstate. The order made these rates effective
on designated dates in the month of June and they were
continuously enforced during a period of about eight
months up to the 14th of February, 1919, when the bill
in this case was filed by the State Utilities Commission
for mandamus against the Director General and the officers of the Northern Pacific Railway, asserting the want
of power in the United States over intrastate rates and
the exclusive right of the State of North Dakota to fix
such rates for all intrastate business done in that State.
The Director General, admitting that he had made the
order complained of and had collected the rates earned
thereunder and paid them into the Treasury of the United
States, sustained his action and denied the alleged right
of the State upon the legislation and official acts which
we have stated. The Northern Pacific denied interest on
the ground that its railway had passed under federal control and that it was receiving the compensation therefor
which had been agreed on between itself and the United
States. It alleged that the rates under the order complained of had been collected by the Director General
through agents appointed by him who were not officials
of the company and therefore it had no responsibility
concerning them. The prayer was that it be dismissed
from the suit.
Taking the case under the complaint, the returns and
the exhibits, the court, as we have previously stated, two
of its members dissenting, denied the authority of the
United States and upheld that of the State, and the
mandamus was made peremptory as to both the Director
except wherein such laws, powers, or regulations may affect the transportation of troops, war materials, Government supplies, or the issue
of stocks and bonds."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

General and the officers of the Northern Pacific Railway.
We are thus brought to the question whether the state
authority controls the power of the United States as to
intrastate rates.
No elaboration could make clearer than do the Act of
Congress of 1916, the proclamation of the President exerting the powers given, and the Act of 1918 dealing with
the situation created by the exercise of such authority,
that no divided but a complete possession and control
were given the United States for all purposes as to the
railroads in question. But if it be conceded that despite
the absolute clarity of the provisions concerning the
control given the United States, and the all-embracing
scope of that control, there is room for some doubt, the
consideration of the general context completely dispels
hesitancy. How can any other conclusion be reached if
consideration be given the comprehensive provisions concerning the administration by the United States of the
property which it was authorized to take, the financial obligations under which it came and all the other duties and
exactions which the act imposed, contemplating one control, one administration, one power for the accomplishment
of the one purpose, the complete possesssion by governmental authority to replace for the period provided the
private ownership theretofore existing? This being true,
it must follow that there is no basis for the contention
that the power to make rates and enforce them which
was plainly essential to the authority given was not included in it.
Conclusive as are these inferences, they are superfluous,
since the portion of § 10 as previously reproduced in the
margin in express terms confers the complete and undivided power to fix rates. The provision is this: "That during the period of Federal control, whenever in his opinion
the public interest requires, the President may initiate
rates, fares, charges, classifications, regulations, and prac-

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

149

Opinion of the Court.

tices by filing the same with the Interstate Commerce
Commission, which said rates, fares, charges, classifications,
regulations, and practices shall not be suspended by the
commission pending final determination." These quoted
words are immediately followed by provisions further defining the power of the Commission and its duty in the
premises, so as to enable it beyond doubt to consider the
situation resulting from the act and to which the rates
were to be applied. The unison between that which is
inferable and that which is expressed demonstrates the
true significance of the statute.
A brief consideration of the contentions relied upon to
the contrary will at once show either their inappositeness,
the mistaken premises upon which they rest, or the errors
of deduction upon which they proceed. It is argued that
as state control over intrastate rates was the rule prior
to the enactment of the statute creating United States
control, the statute must be interpreted in the light of a
presumption that a change as to state control was not
made. But in view of the unambiguous provision of the
statute as to the new character of control which it created.
the principle of interpretation applied in its ultimate aspect
virtually was: that because the statute made a fundamental
change, it must be so interpreted as to prevent that
change from becoming effective.
Besides, the presumption in question but denied the
power exerted in the adoption of the statute, and displaced by an imaginary the dominant presumption which
arose by operation of the Constitution as an inevitable
effect of the adoption of the statute, as shown by the
following:
(a) The complete and undivided character of the war
power of the United States is not disputable. Selective
Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall.
2; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457; Stewart V. Kahn, 11
Wall. 493. On the face of the statutes it is manifest that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

they were in terms based upon the war power, since the
authority they gave arose only because of the existence
of war, and the right to exert such authority was to cease
upon the war's termination. To interpret, therefore, the
exercise of the power by a presumption of the continuance
of a state power limiting and controlling the national
authority was but to deny its existence. It was akin to
the contention that the supreme right to raise armies and
use them in case of war did not extend to directing where
and when they should be used. Cox v. Wood, 247 U. S. 3.
(b) The elementary principle that under the Constitution the authority of the Government of the United States
is paramount when exerted as to subjects concerning
which it has the power to control, is indisputable. This
being true, it results that although authority to regulate
within a given sphere may exist in both the United States
and in the States, when the former calls into play constitutional authority within such general sphere the necessary effect of doing so is, that to the extent that any conflict arises the state power is limited, since in case of conflict that which is paramount necessarily controls that
which is subordinate.
Again, as the power which was exerted was supreme,
to interpret it upon the basis that its exercise must be
presumed to be limited was to deny the power itself.
Thus, once more it comes to pass that the application of
the assumed presumption was in effect but a form of expression by which the power which Congress had exerted was
denied. In fact, error arising from indulging in such erroneous presumption permeates every contention. To illustrate: Because in Reagan v. Mercantile Trust Co., 154 U. S.
413, and other cases unnecessary to be referred to, it was
held that it would be presumed that Congress in creating a
corporation intended that it should be subject to applicable state laws and regulations so far as Congress did
not otherwise provide, therefore, because Congress had

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
135.

151

Opinion of the Court.

taken over to the Government of the United States property to be used by it in the performance of a governmental
function, Congress must be presumed to have intended
that such property (and such function) should continue
to be subject to and controlled by state power.
The confusion produced is again aptly illustrated by
the rule of interpretation by which it is insisted that the
express power to fix rates conferred by the statute was
rightly disregarded. Thus, while admitting that the
power which was conferred to initiate rates when considered in and of itself included all rates, it is nevertheless said that such power must be presumed to be limited
to the only character of rates which under the prior law
the Interstate Commerce Commission had the power to
consider, that is, interstate rates, because the new rates
when initiated were to be acted upon by that body. As,
however, the statute in terms gives power to the Interstate Commerce Commission to consider the new rates
in the light of the new and unified control which it creates,
the error in the contention becomes manifest, even putting
out of view the fact that by the effect of the duty imposed
and the new control created the new rates applying to
the new conditions were within the purview of the power
which the Interstate Commerce Commission previously
possessed. Certainly, to mistakenly disregard one provision of the statute intended to give effect to another
and upon that basis to decide that the statute is not
enforceable, cannot be said to be a correct interpretation.
And this view is also true as to the application which
was made of the asserted presumption to the excepting
clauses of § 15, previously reproduced in the margin, since
that section in the light of the purpose to retain the prior
law is interpreted so as to cause it to be but an additional
means of destroying the all-embracing power to inititate
rates fixed by § 10.
It follows that the judgment below was erroneous. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

relief afforded against the officer of the United States proceeded upon the basis that he was exerting a power not

conferred by the statute, to the detriment of the rights
and duties of the state authority, and was subject therefore to be restrained by state power within the limits of
the statute. Upon the premise upon which it rests,
that is, the unlawful acts of the officers, the proposition
is undoubted, but in view of our conclusion that the
acts of the officers complained of were authorized by the
law of the United States, the question arises how far, that
being established, it results that the suit was one against
the United States over which there was no jurisdiction
within the rulings in Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10;
InternationalPostal Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601;
Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627; Minnesota v. Hitch-

cock, 185 U. S. 373; Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335.
The principle of these cases, however, can only be applicable by giving effect to the conclusion we have reached
as to the legality of the acts of the officers which were
complained of, and to decide which question the United
States was not a necessary party. This is undoubtedly
true unless it can be said that the contentions concerning
the want of power in the officers were so unsubstantial
and frivolous as to afford no basis for jurisdiction and hence
caused the suit to be from the beginning directly against the
United States. As; however, we are of the opinion that
there is no ground for that view, it follows that the case
as made gave jurisdiction to dispose of the question of
wrong committed by the officials, and that a decree giving
effect to our conclusion on that subject will dispose of the
entire case.
Our decree therefore must be and it is
Reverse and remand for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Mn. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in the result.

