CARTAS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

CARTAS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 122.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted October 13, 1919.Decided November 10, 1919.

To review a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition for
want of jurisdiction upon the ground that the facts alleged have no
tendency to establish a contract with the United States, a finding
of facts is not essential. P. 546.
Paragraph 13 of Article 8 of the Articles for the Government of the
Navy (Rev. Stats., § 1624), which imposes a penalty on any person
in the Navy who receives, etc., on board his vessel any goods or
merchandise, for freight, sale or traffic, except gold, silver or jewels,
for freight or safe-keeping; or who demands or receives any compensation for the receipt or transportation of any other article than gold,
silver or jewels, without authority from the President or the Secretary
of the Navy; recognizes and limits the prexisting discretion of
commanding officers to receive property on board for the protection
of private rights; and neither under this statute nor under § 1020
of the Navy Regulations, by wxhieh the compensation for the permitted service is to be applied to the benefit of officers and men,
does such a deposit of gold give rise to any contract with the United
States. P. 547.
48 Ct. Clms. 161, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General, Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Davis and Mr. George M. Anderson, for the United States,
in support of the motion.
Mr. William R. Andrews and Mr. George H. Lamar,
for appellant, in opposition to the motion. Mr. Thomas
M. Henry was on the brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought to recover from the United States
$51,000 in American gold coin with interest from 1869,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

based upon a contract alleged to have been made in that
year by the United States as the result of a deposit of the
principal sum claimed on a war vessel of the United States.
The court, concluding that the facts alleged had no substantial tendency to establish a contract liability on the
part of the United States either express or implied, dismissed the suit for want of jurisdiction, as its power to
adjudge against the United States extended only to obligations of that character. A written opinion was filed,
but no finding of facts was made. The United States
suggests that the cause be remanded for such finding, but
if that course were pursued only the relevant facts could
be embraced in the finding and, as all such facts were admitted by the court below, the case is open to our consideration and we think there is no necessity for remanding it.
In the petition which was filed in 1902 by Ricardo
Cartas, now the appellant, it was alleged that about 33
years before, in January, 1869, Carlos de Castillos deposited on board the American flagship "Contoocook," then
in Havana Harbor, Spanish gold the equivalent of $51,000
in American gold coin. It was alleged that the deposit
was evidenced by a receipt given by the American consul
at Havana and that the petitioner was the grandson of
Castillos and was vested by inheritance with all his rights
growing out of the deposit. It was further alleged that the
deposit was a contract between the depositor and the
United States binding the United States to preserve and
return the deposit when demanded, and that it had never
been returned; indeed, that no demand for its return had
been made during the time which elapsed either by Castillos or by anyone authorized to represent him or his interest. Further, it was averred that, although it appeared
from the files of the Navy Department that a few months
after the deposit was made, that is in April, 1869, it had
been returned by the officer commanding the "Contoo-

CARTAS v. UNITED STATES.
545.

Opinion of the Court.

cook" to one Arredondo, acting as the agent of Castillos
and who was believed by such commanding officer to be
fully authorized to receive it, nevertheless the contract
obligation on the part of the United States yet existed
because said Arredondo was not the agent of Castillos and
the United States remained bound to return the said
deposit and was not relieved therefrom by the payment
made by such officer, although in good faith, to a person
not entitled to receive it.
Admitting the facts thus alleged, it is indisputable that
the only question for decision is the making of the alleged
contract with the United States. Indeed, it is to that
question and to that question alone that the errors assigned and the contentions advanced to sustain them
relate. They all are based upon a power in the commanding officer to contract on behalf of the United States
asserted to be conferred by Paragraph 13 of Article 8 of
the "Articles for the Government of the Navy" (Rev.
Stats., § 1624), as elucidated by § 1020 of the Navy Regulations. A brief reference to the matters thus relied upon
will bring us to the end of the controversy.
The first, the statutory provision, imposes a penalty
upon any person in the Navy who-"takes, receives, or
permits to be received, on board the vessel to which he
is attached, any goods or merchandise, for freight, sale, or
traffic, except gold, silver, or jewels, for freight or safekeeping; or demands or receives any compensation for
the receipt or transportation of any other article than
gold, silver, or jewels, without authority from the President
or the Secretary of the Navy."
The wide discretion possessed by the commanding
officer of a naval vessel concerning the receipt on board,
for the protection of private rights, of gold, silver or jewels,
which it was the obvious purpose of this statute not to
modify, since the power as to such articles was excepted
from the additional limitation which the statute imposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

as to other articles, affords no ground for the implication
that contract obligations would automatically arise as
against the United States from the mere exercise by the
officer of his discretion. A consideration of the nature of
the objects which the provision excepted and the complex
and varied character of the conditions which might call
for the exercise of the discretion add cogency to this view
and at once suggest the incongruity and conflict which
must result from the contrary contention.
And this view serves also to dispose of the contention
based upon § 1020 of the Navy Regulations which but
comprehensively recognizes that compensation due for
services rendered as the result of the exercise of the discretion of the officer, to permit the articles in question to
be taken on board, should be applied, not for the benefit of
the United States in virtue of any contract relation with
the subject, but for the benefit of the officers and men
designated in the proportions stated in the regulation.
Indeed, the co6rdination which the regulation thus manifests between the burden resulting from the exercise of the
discretion to receive on board and the distribution of the
emoluments arising from its exertion serves to point out
the entire unison between the expression of legislative
power and the administrative regulation and to make
clear the disregard of both which would inevitably result
from sustaining the contention as to contract obligation
on the part of the United States now relied upon.
Affirmed.

