PHILA., B. & W. R. R. CO. v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

PHILADELPHIA, BALTIMORE & WASHINGTON
RAILROAD COMPANY v. SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 472.

Argued April 15, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

An employee of an interstate railroad whose duties were to cook the
meals, make the beds, etc., for a gang of bridge carpenters, in a camp
car which was provided and moved from place to place along the
railroad line to facilitate their work in repairing the bridges, and who,
at the time of his injury, was within the car, on a side-track, and occupied in cooking a meal for the carpenters and himself while they
were repairing one of the bridges in the vicinity, held, engaged in interstate commerce, within the meaning of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.
132 Maryland, 345, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John
Spalding Flannery was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. T. Alan Goldsborough for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Respondent brought his action in a state court of Maryland under the provisions of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act of April 22, 1908, as amended April 5, 1910
(c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; c. 143, 36 Stat. 291), to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by him upon one of
petitioner's lines of railroad in the State of Maryland
over which petitioner was engaged in transporting interstate as well as intrastate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Plaintiff was employed by defendant in connection with
a gang of bridge carpenters, who were employed by defendant in the repair of the bridges and bridge abutments
upon said line of railway. The gang, including plaintiff,
worked over the entire line, and were moved from point
to point as the repair work required in what was called a
"camp car," furnished and moved by defendant, in which
they ate, slept, and lived. Plaintiff's principal duties
were to take care of this car, keep it clean, attend to the
beds, and prepare and cook the meals for himself and the
other members of the gang. On December 23, 1915, the
bridge carpenters were engaged in repairing a bridge
abutment on defendant's line near Easton, Maryland,
and the camp car was on defendant's side-track at Easton;
and while plaintiff was in the car, engaged in cooking a
meal for the bridge carpenters and himself, the engineer
of one of defendant's trains, without warning, ran the
engine upon the side-track and against a car to which the
camp car was coupled with such force that plaintiff received injuries, to recover for which his action is brought.
A judgment in plaintiff's favor was affirmed by the
Maryland Court of Appeals (132 Maryland, 345), and the
case comes here on a writ of certiorari.
The only question we have to consider is whether plaintiff at the time he was injured was engaged in interstate
commerce within the meaning of the statute. Petitioner,
citing Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473,
478, and Erie R. R. Co. v. Welsh, 242 U. S. 303, 306, as
conclusive to the effect that the true test is the nature of
the work being done by the employee at the time of the
injury, and that what he had been doing before and expected to do afterwards is of no consequence, argues that
since plaintiff at the time of the injury and for some weeks
prior thereto was and had been working as mess cook
and camp cleaner or attendant for a gang of bridge carpenters who were quartered "for their own convenience"

PHILA., B. & W. R. R. CO. v. SMITH.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

in a camp car belonging to petitioner, which was not being
moved in interstate commerce, but was located and standing on a switch track in the neighborhood of the bridge
upon which the carpenters then were and for some weeks
prior thereto had been and for some time afterwards were
working; and since plaintiff at the moment of the injury
was engaged in cooking food which was the property of
himself and the carpenters, he was not at the time engaged
in interstate commerce.
As thus stated, the relation of plaintiff's work to the
interstate commerce of his employer would seem to be
rather remote. But upon a closer examination of the
facts the contrary will appear. Taking it to be settled
by the decision of this court in Pedersen v. Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, 152,
that the repair of bridges in use as instrumentalities of
interstate commerce is so closely related to such commerce
as to be in practice and in legal contemplation a part of
it, it of course is evident that the work of the bridge carpenters in the present case was so closely related to defendant's interstate commerce as to be in effect a part of
it. The next question is, what was plaintiff's relation
to the work of the bridge carpenters? It may be freely
conceded that if he had been acting as cook and camp
cleaner or attendant merely for the personal convenience
of the bridge carpenters, and without regard to the conduct of their work, he could not properly have been deemed
to be in any sense a participant in their work. But the
fact was otherwise. He was employed in a camp car which
belonged to the railroad company, and was moved about
from place to place along its line according to the exigencies of the work of the bridge carpenters, no doubt with
the object and certainly with the necessary effect of forwarding their work, by permitting them to conduct it conveniently at points remote from their homes and remote
from towns where proper board and lodging were to be had.

Oyflabus.

A

U°
(.

f perso0alrtlnbcy o
iok
The ciremtstance r4at th
wich plaintiff was subjectod werve simiave to i oie that
attended the work of twa, employees generally and of the
bridge workers themselves when off duty, while jnot without significance, is of little amnoent, rJhie significmt thing,
in our opinion, is tat he 9'as cf.mployed by defendant to
assist, and actually wa3 assistiug, the work of the bridge
carpenters by keep'nn their bed wad board close to their
place of work, thus renlering ; easier for defendant to
maintain a proper organaization of the bridge gang and
forwarding their work by reducing the time lost- in going
to and from their imeals and their lodging place. If, instead, he had brought their Tneals to them daily at the
bridge upon which they happened to be working, it hardly
would be questioned that his work in so doing was a part
of tlhehi.
What he was in facct doing was the same in
kind, and did not differ xmaterially in degree. Hence he
was employed, as they were, in interstate commerce,
within the meaning of the Employers' Liability Act.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
CEi ThIORARI TO Tr1E CIRCUIT COURT- OF APPEALS FOR THE

E IGHHII CIRCUIT.
No. 591. Argued March 4, 5, 1919.--Decided May 19, 1919.
Under the Allotment Act of February 8, 1887, § 5, e. 119, 24 Stat. 388,
the twenty-five year trust period, with the attendant restriction upon
the right of alienation, runs from the date of the trust patent, and
not from the date of the approval of the allotment by the Secretary
of the Interior; and an attem)i, to convey, made by an heir of the
allottee, within that period as extended by the President before it
expirationis void. P. 107.

252 Fed. Rep. 65, reversed.

