OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

a portion of the land alleged to have been taken. The
court finding that a former case by it decided against the
owners and here affirmed (Peabody v. United States, 231
U. S. 530), for taking of the same land resulting from instances of gun fire resulting from the same fort and guns,
was identical with this, except for some occasional subsequent acts of gun fire, held that case to be conclusive
of this and rejected the claim on the merits.
Coming to consider this action of the court in the light
of the findings by it made, we are constrained to the conclusion that it was right and that no possible difference
exists between this and the Peabody Case. Before applying this conclusion we say that we find that the record
discloses no ground for the applications here made to
remand and for additional findings.
Judgment affirmed.

AMERICAN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY v. KING
LUMBER & MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 308.

Argued April 22, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

A fire insurance company transacting business in a State other than
that of its incorporation is bound, in respect of such business, by
the laws of the State where the business is transacted. P. 9.
A Pennsylvania fire insurance corporation, through a series of years
issued a succession of policies on property in Florida, the business
being done through local brokers who applied for the insurance,
received and transmitted the premiums, drew their commissions
from the company and were consulted by it as to the subject-matter
insured and the other companies carrying insurance thereon. The
policies, executed in Pennsylvania and sent to the brokers by mail,
each contained a warranty for concurrent insurance throughout
its term in another specified company, but, with the knowledge

AMERICAN FIRE INS. CO. v. KING LUMBER CO.
2.

3

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
of the brokers, a different company was substituted before the loss
occurred. A law of Florida in existence throughout the transactions made any person who solicits insurance or procures applications therefor the agent of the insurer, anything in the application
or policy to the contrary notwithstanding, and made one who receives or receipts for money from the insured to be transmitted to
the insurer the agent of the latter "to all intents and purposes."
Held, that, as applied to the case, so as to charge the company with
the brokers' knowledge and effect a waiver of the warranty, the
Florida law did not deny full faith and credit to the laws of
Pennsylvania, or violate the privileges and immunities, due process,
or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.

New York Life Insurance Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149, and Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hilton-Green, 241 U. S. 613, distinguished.
In the interest of justice the court may decide the merits without
passing on a motion to dismiss that depends on a disputed proposition involving the merits. P. 14.
74 Florida, 130, affirmed.

THD case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Gustavus Remak, Jr., with whom Mr. James F.
Glen was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error, made the
following points:
No question as to the power to annex conditions to the
right of a foreign corporation to do business in Florida
is involved, because the law attacked applies alike to individuals, firms, and corporations, domestic and foreign.
The Florida court refused to accept the construction
placed upon the statute by this court in Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hilton-Green, 241 U. S. 613, and the constitutionality of the act must be determined in view of the
construction put upon it by the Florida court.
The construction of the statute by the Florida court
conclusively makes the agent of an insured, who effects
insurance for him, the agent of the insurer, with unlimited
authority to bind the insurer, and forbids inquiry into the
facts, in violation of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

250 U. S.

Where matter of fact necessarily inheres in a cause of
action, concerning which there is dispute, no statute can
conclusively settle this matter of fact in favor of one class
of litigants against another class.
It is one thing to attribute effect to the convention of
the parties entered into under the admonition of the law,
and another thing to give to circumstances, may be accidental, conclusive presumption, as proof establishing a result against property and liberty. Orient Insurance Co.
v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 566.
No Florida statute could operate on contracts effected
in Pennsylvania by a Pennsylvania insurance company
not doing business in Florida. Particularly could it not
operate in invitum to make strangers agents of a foreign
insurance company.
The policies were declared upon as Pennsylvania contracts, and were Pennsylvania contracts.
In case of doubt, parties are presumed to contract with
reference to a law that will sustain their contracts in their
entirety.
The provisions of the policies conclude the whole controversy if they are given effect.
Isolated transactions do not constitute doing business
by a foreign corporation.
The Florida statute never was intended to raise special
agents with limited authority into general agents.
The only cases tending to sustain the decision of the
Florida court are Stanhilber v. Insurance Co., 76 Wisconsin, 285, and Brewing Co. v. Insurance Co., 95 Iowa, 31,
decided in 1890 and 1895, respectively, and necessarily
overruled by Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, decided in 1897.
All the other cases cited by the Florida court belong to
two classes: (1) Cases denying recovery on assessment
policies, in favor of the insurer, on the ground they violated the policy of the law in the States where they were

AMERICAN FIRE INS. CO. v. KING LUMBER CO.
2.

5

Opinion of the Court.

sought to be enforced, which obviously are not authorities to support recovery by the insured, and (2) cases holding that a foreign insurance company doing business in
another State through authorized agents submits itself
to the laws of that State, which obviously have no application.
The request for information as to the property insured
and the insurance thereon was a necessary incident in
effecting the contract, which could not make the agents
of the insured agents of the insurer.
The allowance of the usual broker's commission was
immaterial.
The ultimate analysis is that a Florida statute could not
be applied to the contracts of a Pennsylvania company
that never left its domicile in Pennsylvania so as to subject itself to the laws of Florida.
Mr. Benj. Micou, with whom Mr. John H. Treadwell
and Mr. E. D. Treadwell were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action on two fire insurance policies issued by plaintiff in error, to which we shall refer as the insurance company, to defendant in error, to which we shall refer as
the lumber company. Each policy was for the sum of
$2,500. There was total insurance on the property described in the policies of $45,750, and it was provided
that the insurance company should only be liable for
its pro rata share of any loss caused by fire under the
provisions of the policies. The loss to the lumber company was $21,028.17, and the insurance company's pro
rata share was on each policy $1,149.08.
There is not much dispute about the facts. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

is considerable dispute about the inferences from them,
and facts and inferences were presented in a maze of
pleadings which terminated in a demurrer to a rejoinder
by the insurance company to replications of the lumber
company to the pleas of the insurance company to the
declaration in the case.
The court, in passing upon the demurrer, being of the
view that § 2765 of the General Statutes of Florida (infra)
was applicable, rendered judgment accordingly for the
lumber company on the policies for the sum of $2,298.16,
with interest at 8% from February 16, 1913, and the
sum of $300 as a reasonable attorney's fee. The Supreme
Court of the State affirmed the judgment.
The controversy is not especially complicated of itself,
but it is made somewhat so by the manner of its presentation. The form and issue of the policies and the fact
of fire and loss by it are not in dispute. The controversy
centers in the relation of a particular firm of insurance
brokers, residing at Tampa, Florida, to the insurance
company and the lumber company, whether they were
the agents of the former or of the latter under § 2765 of
the statutes of Florida and whether they could dispense
with the requirement of a clause in the policies called
the warranty clause. That clause, therefore, and § 2765
(and, we may say, also § 2777, the Supreme Court of
the State taking it into account) become essential elements of decision, and we exhibit them immediately.
Section 2765 is as follows:
"Any person or firm in this State, who receives or
receipts for any money on account of or for any contract
of insurance made by him or them, or for such insurance
company, association, firm or individual, aforesaid, or
who receives or receipts for money from other persons
to be transmitted to any such company, association, firm
or individual, aforesaid, for a policy of insurance, or any
renewal thereof, although such policy of insurance is not

AMERICAN FIRE INS. CO. v. KING LUMBER CO.
2.

7

Opinion of the Court.

signed by him or them, as agent or representative of such
company, association, firm or individual, or who in any
wise, directly or indirectly makes or causes to be made,
any contract of insurance for or on account of such insurance company, association, firm or individual, shall
be deemed to all intents and purposes an agent or representative of such company, association, firm or individual."
Section 2777 is as follows:
"Any person who solicits insurance and procures applications therefor shall be held to be an agent of the
party issuing a policy upon such application, anything
in the application or policy to the contrary notwithstanding."
The warranty clause reads: "Warranted same gross
rate terms and conditions as and to follow the American
Central Ins. Co. of St. Louis, Mo., and that said Company has, throughout the whole time of this policy at
least $5,000 on the identical subject matter and risk and
in identically the same proportion on each separate part
thereof; otherwise, this policy shall be null and void."
The clause was not complied with. The lumber company carried concurrent insurance, but not in the Missouri company. The omission and substitution, it is alleged, were at the suggestion of Lowry and Prince, of
Tampa, Florida, who were the agents of the insurance
company and who, as such agents, caused and procured
the lumber company to renew its policies from time to
time, and finally the company, at the suggestion of Lowry
and Prince, substituted other policies for policies in the
Missouri company, with the knowledge of the insurance
company, such other companies being equal in credit and
responsibility to the Missouri company.
To these assertions the insurance company opposed
contentions of law and fact, not, however, by any one
pleading. The following are the facts it alleged, stated

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

narratively: The insurance company is a Pennsylvania
corporation authorized to write and issue policies on
property outside of Pennsylvania. Lowry and Prince,
as brokers of the lumber company, applied for it (the
lumber company) to the insurance company for insurance
upon the lumber company's property. Policies were
issued, and upon subsequent application policies were
continued to be issued, including those in suit. They
were executed in Philadelphia and delivered to Lowry
and Prince by mail. They each contained a warranty
such as has been set out as to the existence of concurrent
insurance with an approved and designated company
doing business in Florida, the names of the companies
being changed from time to time at Lowry and Prince's
request, and finally the name of the American Central
Insurance Company of St. Louis, Missouri, being inserted, the ground of the request being that they were
the agents of that company and would know of any cancellations by it. Lowry and Prince were not agents of
the insurance company nor authorized "to represent
it in any manner, shape or form," but as agents of the
lumber company transmitted to the insurance company
at its main office in Philadelphia the original and subsequent applications for policies, and as such agents received by mail the policies and transmitted the amount
of premiums to the company less the usual brokers' commissions.
Besides statement of the above facts the rejoinder
contained the following denials: That by issuing the
policies to the lumber company the insurance company
was engaged in the transaction of business in the State
of Florida; that the lumber company paid Lowry and
Prince, for the insurance company, any premiums on the
policies; that Lowry and Prince were its agents; that
prior to the furnishing of the proofs of loss by the lumber
company the insurance company had any notice or

AMERICAN FIRE INS. CO. v. KING LUMBER CO.
2.

9

Opinion of the Court.

knowledge that the Missouri company had canceled its
policies on the property insured and did not carry $5,000
on the identical subject-matter and risk; or that it advised or consulted with Lowry and Prince as to the advisability of the risk or otherwise, except to the extent
that it did request information from them as to the
subject-matter insured and as to the companies carrying
insurance thereon.
It will be observed that the rejoinder raised no question
under the Constitution of the United States. That was
done by a demurrer to the replications of the lumber
company and was expressed, in effect, as follows: "The
legal predicate for the conclusion that Lowry and Prince
were the agents of the defendant [the insurance company]
rests upon § 2765 of the General Statutes of Florida"
and, further, if the section be so construed it violates
(a) the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution
of the United States in that the State of Florida would
thereby deny full faith and credit to the laws of the State
of Pennsylvania, and so construed, it violates (b) the
privilege and immunities clause, the due process clause and
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Some other matters were set forth in the demurrer
which we think are not material to mention. They only
express what is expressed in other places, that Lowry
and Prince were not the agents of the insurance company
but were and must be considered as agents of the lumber
company; and alleged that the policies were Pennsylvania contracts, complied with the Pennsylvania law,
and that to construe them as the lumber company contends they should be construed would be to deny that
law full faith and credit.
The ultimate question, then, is the relation in which
the insurance brokers stood to the respective companies.
The case would seem, therefore, not to be of broad compass nor to justify the elaborateness of argument that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

has been addressed to it. We certainly do not consider
a review of the many cases cited by the insurance company necessary to be made.
The Florida law first demands attention. It is explicit
in its declaration. It was in existence when the policies
were executed, and when the policies of which they are
the successors were executed. There was, therefore,
a course of conduct and transactions through a succession
of years-not a single instance or an isolated one, as the
insurance company contends, but a number of instances
and all in relation. Nor does the case present an attempt
of the Florida law to intrude itself into the State of Pennsylvania and control transactions there; it presents simply
a Pennsylvania corporation having the permission of
that State to underwrite policies on property outside of
the State and the exercise of the right in Florida. And
necessarily it had to be exercised in accordance with the
laws of Florida. There was no law of Pennsylvania to
the contrary-no law of Pennsylvania would have power
to the contrary. There is no foundation, therefore, for
the contention that full faith was not given to a law of
Pennsylvania, nor of a denial of a right to a citizen 1 of
Pennsylvania, nor of a denial of due process or the equal
protection of the law.
The law of Florida, it is true, puts an element into the
transactions of the parties to insurance and makes the
person who solicits insurance and procures applications
the agent of the party issuing the policy, and this against
any provision in the policy to the contrary. And, even
farther, the law makes the person who receives or receipts
for money from the insured to be transmitted to the insurer the agent of the latter.
1A

corporation is not a citizen within the meaning of the provision of the Constitution which secures the privileges and immunities
of citizens against state legislation. Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172
U. S. 557-561.

AMERICAN FIRE INS. CO. v. KING LUMBER CO. 11
2.

Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing unreasonable in the conditions; they
regulate the transactions, do not prevent them, or even
embarrass them by ambiguity. A company is informed
what it may incur by underwriting insurance in the State,
and it cannot assert surprise or ignorance-certainly
the insurance company in the present case cannot do so.
It had knowledge or must be charged with knowledge of
the law. It dealt through Lowry and Prince during
a succession of years, permitted them to receive and
receipt for premiums and transmit them to it, and consulted with them about the subject-matter and with
what companies the risk was divided. It accepted the
benefit of their action while premiums were being received and new policies were being issued. It is rather
late to reject the consequence. Indeed, the attempt at
rejection suggests the possibility of the occurrence of
examples of like kind and may indicate the reason for
the enactment of the law-suggest that its purpose was
to preclude confusion and dispute as to the relation of
the broker to the parties respectively, and to preclude
an underwriter, after using the agency, from denying
responsibility.
These deductions are not contravened by the cases
cited by the insurance company. Its basic proposition
is that a State has no jurisdiction of persons or property
beyond its borders or of contracts executed beyond its
borders, and it invokes the proposition by the assertion
that the policies were Pennsylvania contracts and being
such were immune from regulation by Florida, and New
York Life Insurance Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149, is adduced as typical. In that case the principle was expressed
that the laws of a State could not be extended beyond its
confines, and it was concretely applied in the case to
deny to the State of Missouri the right to extend its
authority into the State of New York and there forbid
a citizen of New Mexico and a citizen of New York from

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

making a loan agreement in New York simply because
it modified a contract originally made in Missouri. The
difference between that case and this is manifest, and the
other cases relied on are not nearer in point. The Florida
statute does not attempt to invade Pennsylvania and
exercise control there. It stays strictly at home in this
record and regulates the insurance company when it
comes to the State to do business with the citizens of
the State and their property.
It is true the insurance company contends that its
transactions were all isolated ones, not such as to constitute doing business in the State, and, besides, that it had
no permission to be in the State and could not be presumed
to be there against its laws; and, besides, again, its policies declared that they were to be effective in Pennsylvania. Cases are cited which are assumed to support
these contentions. A review of them is unnecessary. The
contentions confuse a simple situation and would withdraw from the jurisdiction of Florida transactions there
and give them another theatre and another control. In
other words, would displace the law by the very things it
precludes from such operation.
The challenging response of the insurance company is
that to give the law that effect is to bring it under the
condemnation of Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. HiltonGreen, 241 U. S.613. That case considered the Florida
law, but did not deny its legality nor decide that the State
could not make the local broker, if the designated conditions existed, the agent of an underwriter. It only
decided that the knowledge of the agent of misrepresentation and fraud by the insured could not be imputed to the
underwriter. It was naturally held that such imputation
was a perversion of the rule which imputes an agent's
knowledge to his principal and its underlying reason
"that an innocent third party may properly presume the
agent will perform his duty and report all facts which affect

AMERICAN FIRE INS. CO. v. KING LUMBER CO. 13
2.

Opinion of the Court.

the principal's interest." To so extend the law would be
a perversion of it, not a use to it-make it not a regulation
but an oppression. The present case is not open to that
condemnation. The lumber company was an "innocent
third party" and could properly presume that Lowry and
Priuce would and did perform their duty and report to
the insurance company their knowledge of the concurrent
insurance that was carried on the property, and that the
provision requiring it was equivalently complied with.
And there was not dereliction in the agents; the substituted security was not insufficient. If the power that
was exercised had no binding effect on the insurance
company it would be difficult to imagine what would have
under the Florida statute. Nor can we yield to the contention that to so construe it is "to raise special agents
with limited authority into general agents."
The insurance company, however, insists that the policies constituted the contracts between it and the lumber
company and that they were not subject to subsequent
variation, and Lumber Underwriters v. Rife, 237 U. S.
605, is cited. The case is not apposite. There was an
attempt, in that case, to vary the written words of a contract by a concurrent parol agreement; in other words, and
to quote those of the case, to establish by "parol proof
that at the very moment when the policy was delivered"
one of its provisions was waived. It was not decided that
there could not be a subsequent waiver of a provision of
a policy nor that the convention of the parties could not
be made subject to a law of the State.
Finally the insurance company contends that the Florida law, as aided by the decision of the Supreme Court of
the State, gives "the agent of the insured unlimited authority to bind the insurer, and forbids inquiry into the facts,
in violation of § 1 of the 14th Amendment." Phases of
the contention are covered by what we have said, and its
main foundation that inquiry into the facts is forbidden

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Syllabus.

250 U. S.

is not tenable. The facts were exhibited in the pleadings
and they showed that the conditions for the application of
the law existed. They showed insurance effected through
the brokers, Lowry and Prince, their communication with
the insurance company, their transmission of money to
it, the payment of their commission by the company, and
the consultation of the company with them as to the
"subject matter insured, and the companies carrying
insurance thereon," to use the language of the rejoinder.
A motion to dismiss is made on the ground that the
federal questions raised were not passed upon by the
courts of the State, but that the courts rested their decision on the fact that the contracts were made in Florida
rather than in Pennsylvania. That, however, was a disputed proposition and the motion so far involved the
merits of the case that we have considered, under such
circumstances, justice would be better served by going
into the merits. Beaumont v. Prieto, 249 U. S. 554.
Judgment affirmed.

CALDWELL ET AL., COPARTNERS, TRADING AS
CALDWELL & DUNWODY, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 325.

Submitted April 23, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

The provision of the General Railroad Right of Way Act of March 3,
1875, granting a beneficiary railroad company the right to take
from the public lands adjacent to its line timber necessary for the
construction of its railroad, must be strictly construed, and does
not permit that portions of trees remaining after extraction of ties
be appropriated, either as a means of business or profit or to compensate the agents employed by the railroad to do the tie-cutting. P. 19.
A grant of "timber" for purposes of railroad construction is not a

grant of "trees,"

P. 21.

