OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

250 U. S.

PARKER, AS SUPERINTENDENT FOR THE FIVE
CIVILIZED TRIBES, ET AL. v. RILEY, A MINOR,
BY STOCKTON, HER GUARDIAN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 254.

Submitted March 19, 1919.-Decided May 19 1919.

Under § 9 of the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, the homestead of a full-blood Creek Indian who dies leaving a child born
since March 4, 1906, is not freed from the restrictions on alienation by the death of the allottee, but is set apart for the "use and
support" of such child during life, but not beyond April 26, 1931.
P. 69.
Whether the special interest of the surviving child in such a case is,
strictly speaking, an estate for life or for years, and what effect
a removal of the restrictions on the homestead "in the manner
provided in section one" of the act, after the death of the allottee,
would have on the relative rights of such child and other heirs of
the allottee, are questions not here considered. P. 70.
Where a child holding such a special estate under § 9 of the act joined
the other heirs of the allottee, with the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, in leasing the allotment for oil and gas, upon a royalty basis, for the benefit of them all but without any provision
for altering their rights inter sese, held, that, since the royalties took
the place, pro tanto, of the land as the lessee extracted and took
the minerals, the special estate attached to the royalties, and the
child took the interest or income therefrom, while she lived, but
not beyond April 26, 1931, leaving the principal, like the homestead, to go to the heirs in general on the termination of her special

right. Id.
243 Fed. Rep. 42, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for appellants.
Mr. William J, Horton and Mr. Ralph A. Smith for
appellees,

PARKER v. RILEY.
66.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a bill in equity to settle conflicting claims to
royalties collected and accruing under an oil and gas
lease of lands allotted to a full-blood Creek Indian as a
homestead. The allottee died intestate in November,
1908, leaving a husband and two minor children as her
only heirs. One of the children was born before and the
other after March 4, 1906. Under the applicable law of
descent each heir took an undivided one-third interest
in the lands, subject to the estate specially given to the
child born after March 4, 1906, by § 9 of the Act of May
27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312. The lease was given in
1912 by the husband and children-the latter acting
through their repective guardians-in accordance with
the rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of
the Interior, and was approved by that officer. I The
royalties have been and are being regularly paid to an
officer of the Indian Bureau under a provision in the lease,
and he receives and holds them in trust for the lessors
according to their respective interests. The District
Court held that each heir was entitled to one-third of the
royalties and directed that they be distributed on that
basis. 218 Fed. Rep. 391. In the Circuit Court of Appeals that decree was affirmed, one judge dissenting. 243
Fed. Rep. 42.
It is insisted here, as it was in the courts below, that
under § 9 of the Act of May 27, 1908, the child born after
March 4, 1906, is entitled to all the royalties accruing
during her life, but not beyond April 26, 1931, or, if not
to the royalties, to the income or interest therefrom during
that period.
The lands were allotted under the Acts of March 1,
1901, c. 676, 31 Stat. 861, and June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32
It was approved also by a local court.

OCTOBER, TERM., 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Stat. 500, both of which provided that the homestead of
each allottee should be inalienable for twenty-one years
and on his death should remain for the use and support of
his children, if any, born after the date which would entitle them to be enrolled and receive allotments of their
own. By the Act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137,
that date was changed to March 4, 1906, and as to certain allotments the restrictions on alienation were extended until April 26, 1931. With these matters in mind
the provisions in the Act of May 27, 1908, relied on here,
will be more readily understood.
By its first section that act relieves certain allotments
from all restrictions, and then declares: "All homesteads
of said allottees enrolled as mixed-blood Indians having
half or more than half Indian blood, including minors of
such degrees of blood, and all allotted lands of enrolled
full-bloods, and enrolled mixed-bloods of three-quarters
or more Indian blood, including minors of such degrees
of blood, shall not be subject to alienation, contract
to sell, power of attorney, or any other incumbrance
prior to April twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and thirty
one, except that the Secretary of the Interior may
remove such restrictions, wholly or in part, under such
rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of the proceeds for the benefit of the respective
Indians as he may prescribe. The Secretary of the
Interior shall not be prohibited by this Act from continuing to remove restrictions as heretofore." By its second
section it provides: "That leases of restricted lands for
oil, gas or other mining purposes, leases of restricted homesteads for more than one year, and leases of restricted
lands for periods of more than five years, may be made,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under
rules and regulations provided by the Secretary of the
Interior, and not otherwise." By its fifth section it declares that "any attempted alienation" of lands while

PARKER v. RILEY.
66.

Opinion of the Court.

they are restricted and "also any lease of such restricted
land made in violation of law . . . shall be absolutely
null and void." And its ninth section contains the following:
"That the death of any allottee of the Five Civilized
Tribes shall operate to remove all restrictions upon the
alienation of said allottee's land: Provided, That no conveyance of any interest of any full-blood Indian heir in
such land shall be valid unless approved by the court
having jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of said
deceased allottee: Provided further, That if any member
of the Five Civilized Tribes of one-half or more Indian
blood shall die leaving issue surviving, born since March
fourth, nineteen hundred and six, the homestead of such
deceased allottee shall remain inalienable, unless restrictions against alienation are removed therefrom by the
Secretary of the Interior in the manner provided in section
one hereof, for the use and support of such issue, during
their life or lives, until April twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and thirty-one; but if no such issue survive, then
such allottee, if an adult, may dispose of his homestead by
will free from all restrictions; if this be not done, or in the
event the issue hereinbefore provided for die before April
twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and thirty-one, the land
shall then descend to the heirs, according to the laws of
descent and distribution of the State of Oklahoma, free
from all restrictions."
The allottee, as has been said, was an enrolled fullblood Creek Indian and died several months after the
Act of May 27, 1908. The restrictions on the alienation
of her homestead had not been removed, and among her
heirs was a child-a daughter named Julia-born after
March 4, 1906. In these circumstances a reading of
section nine makes it very plain that the restrictions did
not terminate with the allottee's death but remained in
force, and also that the homestead was set apart for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

"use and support" of Julia during her life, but not beyond
April 26, 1931. We need not stop to consider whether,
strictly speaking, the right thus specially given to Julia
was an estate for life or for years, for it evidently was not
the purpose to make any nice distinctions along that line.
Nor need we consider what effect a removal of the restrictions "in the manner provided in section one" after
the death of the allottee would have had on the relative
rights of Julia and the other heirs, for no such removal was
attempted or intended by the Secretary of the Interior.
The oil and gas lease was to run for ten years and as
much longer as oil or gas was found in paying quantity.
It was given and approved under the provision in section
two dealing specially 'with the leasing of restricted lands
and homesteads. All the heirs joined in the lease and it
was designed to be for the benefit of all. Nothing in it
or in the provision under which it was given suggests that
the rights of the heirs, as among themselves, were to be
altered or affected. The oil and gas were to be extracted
and taken by the lessee, and for this royalties in money
were to be paid. These minerals were part of the homestead and the lease was to operate as a sale of them as
and when they were extracted. In that sense the heirs
were exchanging a part of the homestead for the money
paid as royalties, but no heir was surrendering any right
to the others. Thus the rights of all in the royalties were
the same as in the homestead. Nothing in the Act of
May 27, 1908, makes to the contrary. Under the provision in section nine specially providing for issue born
after March 4, 1906, Julia was entitled for her support to
the exclusive use of the entire homestead while she lived,
but not beyond April 26, 1931, and those who took the
fee took it subject to that right. The rights of all in the
royalties must, as we think, be measured by that standard.
In this view Julia is entitled to the use of the royalties,
that is to say, the interest or income which may be ob-

RUST LAND CO. v. JACKSON.
66.

Syllabus.

tained by properly investing them, during the same period,
leaving the principal, like the homestead, to go to the heirs
in general on the termination of her special right.
Our conclusion on this point is in accord with the general trend of decisions in the oil and gas mining regions in
similar situations. Blakley v. Marshall, 174 Pa. St. 425,
429; Wilson v. Youst, 43 W. Va. 826; Eakin v. Hawkins,
52 W. Va. 124; Stewart v. Tennant, 52 W. Va. 559; Barnes
v. Keys, 36 Oklahoma, 6.
Decrees below reversed.

RUST LAND & LUMBER COMPANY v. JACKSON
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

No. 171.

Argued March 4, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

The contention that an issue between private parties involving the
location of the state boundary was submitted to the jury upon
a theory inconsistent with the true principle of decision as laid down
by this court, and that thereby a party was deprived of a right,
privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution and treaties
of the United States, will not afford ground for a writ of error to
review the judgment of a state court under Jud. Code, § 237, as
amended. P. 73.
The claim that the decision of an original suit between two States
pending in this court for the determination of their common boundary will be determinative of private rights to timber, involved in
a case between private parties pending in the Supreme Court of
one of such States, and that a party to the latter case will be entitled to set up such decision when rendered and is entitled to a continuance meanwhile, held, at most, an assertion of a title, right,
privilege or immunity under the Federal Constitution; and the refusal of such continuance by the state court held to involve no question as to the jurisdiction of this court to render a conclusive judg-

