SYMINGTON CO. v. NATIONAL CASTING3S CO.

383

Syllabus.

376.

within the United States within the meaning of Congress
as expressed in the statute under conskieration. It follows that the question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be answered in the affirmative.,
So ordered.

MR. JUSTICE MOREYNOLDS took no part in this case.

T.

H. SYMINGTON COMPANY v. NATIONAL
MALLEABLE CASTINGS COMPANY ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

MINER v. T. H. SYMINGTON COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 31, 24.

Argued April 19, 22, 1918.-Decided June 9, 1919.

Where certain claims of a patent called for a "pocket" or housing,
without indicating whether it must be integral or might also be made
in two or more parts to be assembled, held that the latter interpretation was the correct one, in view of another claim calling for the
integral form distinctly and a provision of the specifications saying
"the pocket may be cast in a single piece." P. 385.
As between two patentees, he of the prior application and patent is
presumptively the prior inventor. Id.
Oral testimony tending to show prior invention as against an existing
patent is, in the absence of models, drawings, or kindred evidence,
open to grave suspicion, particularly if taken long after the time of
alleged invention. P. 386.
A mental conception in process of development, occasionally outlined

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

on scraps of paper, subsequently discarded, and roughly worked
into a small wooden model with a pen-knife, held not to amount to
invention. P. 386.
230 Fed. Rep. 821; 234 id. 343, affirmed.
229 Fed. Rep. 730, reversed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George I. Haight for petitioner in No. 24.
Mr. Melville Church and Mr. Gilbert P. Ritter, with
whom Mr. W. S. Symington, Jr., and Mr. Ernest F.
Mechlin were on the briefs, for petitioner in No. 31 and
respondent in No. 24.
Mr. Charles Neave, with whom Mr. Clarence D. Kerr
was on the brief, for respondents in No. 31.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
These cases are so related that they may be disposed
of together. Each is a suit to enjoin the infringement of
a patent. One was begun in the District of Maine and is
based on letters patent granted May 7, 1901, to Jacob J.
Byers on an application filed April, 21 1900. The other
was begun in the Northern District of Illinois and is based
on letters patent granted February 18, 1902, to William
H. Emerick on an application filed May 24, 1901. Both
patents cover an improvement in draft rigging for railroad cars. In each suit it became necessary to compare
the patents, determine whether the invention of one was
anticipated by the other, and ascertain which of the
patentees was the original and first inventor. Ultimately
the suits reached the Circuit Courts of Appeals for the
circuits in which they were brought. In the Maine suit
the court held that Byers was the prior inventor and that

SYMINGTON CO. v. NATIONAL CASTINGS CO.
383.

385

Opinion of the Court.

claims three, five and six of the patent to him were valid
and infringed. 230 Fed. Rep. 821; 234 Fed. Rep. 343.
In the Illinois suit the court held that Emerick was the
prior inventor and that claims one, two, three and four
of the patent to him were valid and infringed. 229 Fed.
Rep. 730. These conflicting decisions led to the allowance
of the present writs of certiorari.
While the discussion at the bar and in the briefs has
taken a wide range, only two points need be considered.
One of the elements called for by the claims in the Byers
patent which were sustained is a "pocket" or housing,
which is to hold other parts in place. The corresponding
element of the Emerick patent is described as "counterpart castings" and is in two parts. Whether the Byers
pocket was to be integral or might be in two or more parts
is a matter about which the two courts differed. In the
Maine suit it was held that the claims were not limited to
an integral pocket, but in the Illinois suit the ruling was
the other way. The former view, as it seems to us, is
the right one. There is nothing in Byers' claims which
were sustained indicating that the pocket is to be integral,
while there is a distinct call for such a pocket in claim
nine. The difference in terms points persuasively to a
difference in purpose, and the specification does even
more, for it says "the pocket may be cast in a single piece."
This is the common form of designating an admissible
alternative in such instruments. Of course, the other
alternative is casting it in a plurality of pieces. When
this is done and the pieces are assembled they form a
pocket and serve in the same way as if there were but one.
The courts differed also as to who was the prior inventor. Presumptively it was Byers, for his application
and patent were both prior to Emerick's application.
Recognizing this, the parties claiming under Emerick
sought by proof to carry his invention back to an earlier
date, and to that end produced the testimony of three

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

witnesses, Emerick being one. All three testified in both
suits, their testimony being substantially the same in
both. In the Maine suit the court pronounced this
testimony too equivocal and uncertain to establish priority
as against Byers' application and patent, but in the
Illinois suit the court, although regarding the testimony
as hardly satisfactory, gave effect to it. On reading it
we are persuaded that it was clearly insufficient.
This court has pointed out that oral testimony tending
to show prior invention as against existing letters patent
is, in the absence of models, drawings or kindred evidence,
open to grave suspicion; particularly if the testimony be
taken after the lapse of years from the time of the alleged
invention. Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S.
286, 300. And it has said: "A conception of the mind is
not an invention until represented in some physical form,
and unsuccessful experiments or projects, abandoned by
the inventor, are equally destitute of that character."
Clark Thread Co. v. Willimantic Linen Co., 140 U. S.
481, 489.
Here the evidence was oral. No model, drawing or
kindred exhibit was produced. Fifteen years had elapsed
since the date as of which invention was being claimed.
The testimony was not direct and strong, but weak and
uncertain and in some respects contradictory. At most
it only disclosed a mental conception in process of development which occasionally was outlined on scraps of paper
and then committed to the waste basket and was roughly
worked into a wooden model four or five inches long with
a pen knife. The first real model or drawing was made
about the time of the actual application for a patent and
there was no attempt at reduction to practice until after
the patent was issued. Such proof under the rule just
stated does not suffice.
Decree in No. 31 affirmed.
Decree in No. 24 reversed.

