OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

250 U. S.

BERKMAN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 865.

Argued April 16, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

A defendant under indictment who, pursuant to an order obtained on
his own application, voluntarily deposits cash in the registry in lieu
of bail, does so with full knowledge that under Rev. Stats., § 828, if
applicable to such cases, one per cent. may be taxed as compensation
to the clerk for receiving, keeping and paying out the money; and
the contentions that the retention of such percentage, upon return
of the deposit after his conviction, brings that section in conflict
with the Fifth and Eighth Amendments, and Art. IV, § 2, of the
Constitution, are frivolous, and will not support a direct writ of error
under Jud. Code, § 238. P. 117.
Writ of error dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harry Weinberger for plaintiffs in error.
This practice of taking one per cent. deprives the bailor
of plaintiffs in error of his property without due'process
of law, and takes his property without compensation.

If we have the absolute right to give bail, defendants
having been surrendered to answer the judgment of the
court, the letter of the bond has been satisfied and the
bailor has the absolute right to the return of his security,
and any taking of part or all of the same by the court on
any pretext (defendants having been surrendered to the
court) is directly in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
It violates Art. IV, §2, cl. 1, of the Constitution.
This right of giving cash bail comes from the common
law. Petersdorff, Law of Bail, p. 7.
There can be no question that any impediment to the
giving of bail works a hardship on defendants who may be

BERKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
114.

Argument for the United States.

brought into court to face a criminal charge. The construction of the court puts additional burdens on certain
classes. Nothing is charged by the Government for investigating the sufficiency of the real estate or the reliability of the bonding company, so if the trouble of the clerk
is considered, it is less in cash bail cases, and no reason
for the distinction or discrimination exists.
It violates the Eighth Amendment. "Excessive bail
shall not be required."
Any impediment to the giving of bail is exactly the same
as requiring excessive bail. It works to prevent a defendant being released on bail. If Congress could tax
one per cent. on cash bail, it could tax it ninety per cent.,
or one hundred per cent., or tax similarly other kinds of
bail, and so prevent it, thus circumventing the prohibition
of this section. It was the intention of the Constitution
to absolutely make sacred the right to bail, without any
impediment and not too large bail.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Porter, with whom
Mr. W. C. Herron was on the brief, for the United States:
The plaintiffs in error are not entitled to come directly
from the District Court to this court on the question of
the construction of the statutes of the United States, or
the decisions of the courts thereon, by a mere claim that
the Constitution is involved. Judicial Code, § 238; Rakes
v. United States, 212 U. S. 55, 58; Lamar v. United States,
240 U. S. 60, 65. They must, therefore, assume a construction of the statutes against them, and their claim must be
that Congress has no power to enact that a defendant
shall pay poundage to the clerk on money voluntarily
deposited by him in lieu of bail. Such a claim is frivolous,
the provisions of the Constitution referred to by plaintiffs
in error having no application. It is not taking property
without due process of law to compel a party to a cause to
pay for services rendered at his voluntary request and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

for his benefit. Costs may constitutionally be taxed.
Farmers' Insurance Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301, 304;
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Cade, 233 U. S.
642, 651, 652; Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U.
S.412, 432.
Nor is Article IV, § 1, or the Fourteenth Amendment,
of the Constitution, any more applicable. Each applies
only to state action. United States v. Harris, 106 U. S.
629, 643.
If it be assumed that the United States is prohibited
by implication from discrimination between persons (see
United States v. Heinze, 218 U. S. 532, 546), there is
nothing arbitrary or grossly unfair in distinguishing between those defendants who give recognizance with surety
and those who give cash bail, requiring the latter to pay
a fee for the safe-keeping of the money. It is in no sense
a discrimination. The service of holding the deposit is
not performed for those who give a bond with surety. In
the absence of statute, money can not be taken in lieu
of bail, United States v. Faw, 1 Cranch, C. C. 486; State
v. Owens, 112 Iowa, 403, 407, and cases cited. The statute which grants this privilege may constitutionally require that the person exercising it shall be subject to the
burdens necessarily involved.
The points as to unreasonable search and seizure and
excessive bail, if the plaintiffs in error are in any position
to raise them on this application, need only be stated to
demonstrate their lack of substance.
MR. JUsTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Section 828, U. S. Revised
the compensation to be taxed
District Courts, among other
receiving, keeping, and paying

Statutes, which specifies
and allowed to clerks of
things provides: "For
out money, in pursuance

BERKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
114.

Opinion of the Court.

of any statute or order of court, one per centum on the
amount so received, kept, and paid."
In each of the criminal causes entitled The United States
v. Emma Goldman and The United States v. Alexander
Berkman, some days subsequent to defendants' arrest
(June, 1917), evidently upon applications in their behalf
consented to by the District Attorney, the court below
directed "That the sum of $25,000 Dollars, cash, be deposited in the Registry of this Court in lieu and place of
bail for the appearance of the above-named defendant
before the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York, in accordance with the provisions
of the recognizance to be given by said defendant." Defendants were afterwards convicted and sentenced to
imprisonment.
Upon motions duly presented the clerk was afterwards
directed to pay to defendants' counsel funds deposited
under the above orders, less costs. He retained one per
centum as compensation and the court refused to declare
this sum unlawfully withheld and direct its return. The
matter is here by writ of error to the District Court.
It is now maintained that § 828 does not apply to criminal cases. Further, that if construed to be applicable
where cash is deposited in lieu of bail for appearance of
one charged with crime, it conflicts with the Federal Constitution, Fifth Amendment-" No person shall .
be deprived of . . . liberty, or property, without
due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for
public use, without just compensation"; also with Article
IV, § 2-"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States;" and with the Eighth Amendment-" Excessive
bail shall not be required."
Our jurisdiction depends upon whether the case really
and substantially involves the constitutionality of the
section in question as construed and applied. Judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Syllabus.

250 U. S.

Code, § 238; Rakes v. United States, 212 U. S. 55, 58;
Lamar v. United States, 240 U. S. 60, 65. And we deem it
too clear for serious discussion that, as enforced below, the
statute deprived plaintiffs in error of no right guaranteed
by any of the constitutional provisions relied upon. With
full knowledge they voluntarily asked to deposit money
with the clerk and later requested that he be required to
pay it out. Having thus obtained his services they now
deny his claim for compensation. Obviously, nothing
was taken from them without due process of law; their
property was not taken for public use; they were not
deprived of any privilege or immunity enjoyed by citizens
of other States; and the record reveals no relation between
the contested charge and any excessive bail. We think the
suggested constitutional questions are wholly wanting in
merit and too insubstantial to support our jurisdiction.
Brolan v. United States, 236 U. S. 216, 218. The writ of
error must be
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES and MR. JUsTIcE BRANDEIS

dissent.

CAREY v. STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
ERROR To THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.

No. 346.

Submitted April 29, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

Section 29, Laws of South Dakota, 1909, c. 240, which forbids shipment
by carrier of wild ducks and is applicable whether the birds were
taken lawfully or unlawfully, or shipped in open or closed season,
is not inconsistent with the Federal Migratory Bird Act of March 4,
1913, c. 145, 37 Stat. 828, 847, and the regulations of the Department of Agriculture adopted thereunder, since the latter act pro-

