OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.'
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA AND TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.

Nos. 20, 21, 232, 332, 334.-Argued January 25, 28, 1918; April 24, 25,
1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.
The Arizona Employers' Liability Law (Rev. Stats., 1913, pars. 3154,
3156, 3158, 3160,) in respect of certain specified employments reasonably designated as inherently hazardous and dangerous to workmen, imposes upon the employer, without regard to his fault or that
of any person for whose conduct he is responsible, liability in compensatory (not speculative or punitive) damages for the accidental
personal injury or death of any employee arising out of and in the
course of the employment and due to a condition or conditions of
the occupation, but not caused by the employee's own negligence.
Held, that it does not infringe the rights of employers under the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 419, et seq. New York Central R. R.
Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188.
The States are left a wide field of discretion to change their laws, and
their legislation is not subject to constitutional objection upon the
ground that it is novel and unwise. Pp. 419-421.
The court has repeatedly adjudged that the rules governing the liability
of employers for death or injury of employees in the course of the
employment are subject, as rules of future conduct, to alteration by
the States and that, excluding unreasonable or arbitrary changes,
the employer may be made liable without fault and the commonlaw defenses be abolished. P. 419.
In this instance, the effect of the statute is to require the employer
instead of the employee to assume a pecuniary risk inherent in the
docket titles of these cases are: Arizona Copper Company,
Limited, v. Hammer, No. 20, Arizona Copper Company, Limited, v.
Bray, No. 21, Ray Consolidated Copper Company v. Veazey, No. 232,
in error to the District Court of the United States for the District of
Arizona; InspirationConsolidated Copper Company v. Mendez, No. 332,
Superior & Pittsburg Copper Company v. Tomich, sometimes known as
Thomas, No. 334, in error to the Supreme Court of the State of Arizona.
1 The

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

401

Syllabus.

employment, and due to its conditions and not to the negligence
of the employee killed or injured, leaving the employer, as the
common law in theory left the employee, to take such risk into
consideration in fixing wages, with the opportunity, besides, to
charge the loss as a part of the cost of the product of the industry.
P. 420.
The statute linmits recovery strictly to compensatory damages-excluding punitive damages, which it may be conceded would be
contrary to natural justice-and makes only such discrimination
between employer and employee as necessarily arises from their different relations to the common undertaking. There is no denial of
the equal protection of the laws. P. 422.
The statute adds no new burden to the cost of industry, but merely
recognizes and in part transfers to the employer an existing and
inevitable burden due to the hazardous nature of the industry.
P. 424.
The statute may be regarded as a police regulation, designed to prevent the injured employees and their dependents from becoming a
burden upon the public; and, so regarded, it can not be said to be
so clearly unreasonable and arbitrary that this court should declare it violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.
It amounts to a contradiction of terms to say that, in leaving the
issues of fact and the compensatory damages to be determined by
juries according to the established procedure of the courts, the
statute violates due process of law. P. 426.
If a State establishes a right of action for compensation to injured
workmen upon grounds not arbitrary or fundamentally unjust,
the question whether the award shall be measured as compensatory
damages are measured at common law, or according to some prescribed scale reasonably adapted to produce a fair result, is for the
State to determine. P. 428.
Whether such compensation should be paid in a single sum or distributed during the period of disability or need, is likewise for the State
to determine. P. 429.
The objection that the Arizona act may be extended by construction
to non-hazardous industries can not be raised by parties whose industries were indisputably hazardous. Id.
The objection that the benefits of the act may be extended, in the
case of a death claim, to those not nearly related to or dependent
upon the workman, or may even go by escheat to the State, held,
not presented, the Arizona court having construed the act as confining recovery to compensatory damages. P. 430.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 20, 21.

250 U. S.

The Arizona system allows the injured employee an election of remedies,
permitting restricted recovery under a" compensation law" although
he has been guilty of contributory negligence, and full compensatory
damages under the Employers' Liability Act if he has not. Held,
not inconsistent with the due process or equal protection clauses,
as respects employers. P. 430.
CONCURRING OPINION OF HOLMES, J.:-

That certain voluntary conduct may constitutionally be put at the
peril of those pursuing it finds illustrations in the criminal law and
in the extent to which a master may be held for acts of a servant.
P. 432.
The criterion of fault itself involves applying the external standard of
prudence, and the decision of a jury. Id.
Holding the employer liable for accidents tends directly to secure attention to the safety of the men,-an unquestionably constitutional
object of legislation. Id.
In allowing damages for pain and mutilation, the Arizona law constitutionally may have been based on the view that, if a business
is unsuccessful it means that the public does not care enough for it
to make it pay, and, if it is successful, the public pays the expenses, and something more, and should pay, as part of the cost
of producing what it wants, the cost of pain and mutilation incident to the production; and that, by throwing that loss upon the
employer in the first instance, it is thrown in the long run, justly,
upon the public. P. 433.
The liability under this law is limited to a conscientious valuation of the
loss, and it is to be presumed that juries and courts will confine it
accordingly. Id.
It is not urged, in this case, that the provision for 12 per cent. interest
from the date of suit, in case of an unsuccessful appeal, is void.
P. 434.
19 Arizona, 151; id. 182, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ernest W. Lewis and Mr. John A. Garver, with whom
Mr. W. C. McFarland was on the briefs, for plaintiff in
error in Nos. 20, 21:
In reaching the conclusion that the workmen's corn-

ARIZONA EMPLOYEEIS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

403

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 20, 21.

pensation acts of New York, Iowa and Washington were
a valid exercise of legislative power, this court was influenced by -two considerations: one, involving a legal
principle, that in taking away the common-law defenses,
or some of them, from the employer, the legislature had
substituted a substantial equivalent, in limiting the
liability of the employer according to a prescribed and
reasonable schedule, which would probably not be any
more onerous upon him than his common-law liability;
and the other, involving social and economic considerations, that the legislation was a valid exercise of the
police power, in promoting the general welfare. New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 203; Hawkins v.
Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 234.
The justification for legislation of this kind is that, in
the interest of society, hazardous occupations should themselves be charged with the reasonable burden of sustaining
the inevitable loss resulting from the inherent risks of the
business, which no ordinary care or foresight can guard
against, and that a liability or insurance fund should be
created by a tax upon the business, which, on the one
hand, will afford substantial and speedy compensation
to the injured employee, and prevent his becoming an
object of charity, and, on the other hand, will protect
the employer from uncertain and possibly ruinous verdicts that might bankrupt the business, to the injury,
not only of the particular employer and of all other
workmen employed by him, but of society generally.
The fund is in the nature of an insurance against the
joint risk in which the parties embark. The liability of
the employer is defined and regulated according to the
injuries sustained, and the right of the employee to receive, without delay, the entire compensation thus fixed,
is established. Both employer and workman are directly
benefited, and the State is relieved from caring for many

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 20, 21.

250 U. S.

unfortunates who might otherwise become dependent
upon it.
But legislation of this kind, as this court pointed out,
must be reasonable to the employer as well as to the employed. It promotes the general welfare only in so far
as it relieves society from the ills of the existing system.
One of the greatest of those ills was the heavy burden of
litigation which the old system fostered, with long deferred
and scant, if any, benefits to the person sustaining the
injuries, with great expense both to the State and to the
employer, and with an uncertain liability thrown upon
the employer, against which he could protect himself
only by insurance in companies whose principal business
consisted in combating all claims for injuries.
The Arizona legislature completely failed to apply
either of the principles referred to by this court. The employer is deprived of his common-law defenses and is
given nothing in return, because the workman is left
free to reject the compensation provided by the Workmen's Compensation Law. The statute will cause direct
injury to society at large; for unlimited liability without
fault will necessarily act as an effectual deterrent to the
investment of capital in industries declared to be hazardous. Men of small means might be ruined by a single
verdict; and large corporations would be in constant
danger from excessive verdicts, as is obvious from the
verdicts in these cases.
The Liability Law leaves a workman, whose injury is
due solely to his own negligence, the right to demand
compensation under the Workmen's Compensation Law.
Thus, in the only instance in which an employer could
interpose a complete defense under the Liability Law,
he is obliged to make compensation under the Compensation Law.
A further peculiar consequence of this Liability Law is
that, if the employer pleads that the negligence of the

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

405

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in Nos. 20, 21.

workman contributed to the injury, he is thereby prevented from claiming that he himself was not guilty of
negligence, Superior & Pittsburg Copper Co. v. Tomich,
19 Arizona, 182; and if the employer is actually guilty of
some negligence, he gets off more lightly than if he is
entirely free from fault, because, in the former case, the
liability will be apportioned between the employer and
employee in proportion to their negligence. See dissenting
opinion of Ross, J., in Superior & Pittsburg Copper Co. v.
Tomich, supra.
A further peculiar feature of this Liability Law is that
there may be a recovery in the case of death, even where
there is no one in existence who was in any way dependent
upon the decedent, and even though his next of kin may
be enemies of the State and Nation, or even though he
may have no ascertainable next of kin. Workmen's compensation laws should limit the benefits to the injured
person or those actually dependent upon him; and this
principle has been universally recognized in this and other
countries.
No other State, so far as we have been able to ascertain,
has ever gone to the extreme extent shown in this Arizona
legislation, of subjecting employers to unlimited liability
without any fault on their part, or without any compensating obligation on the part of the workmen. The
Arizona Workmen's Compensation Law is a mere farce,
so far as any protection to the employer is concerned; and
it is resorted to by the workman only when his own conduct has effectually barred his recovery in an action at law.
There are certain cases in which the courts have recognized that there may be liability without fault; but they
are exceptions to the general rule of liability under our
law and depend on conditions which are in no way applicable to this situation. Some of them are based on the
ancient insurer's liability of innkeepers and carriers,
while others relate to the strict liability which has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 232.

250 U. S.

imposed on railroads in relation to damages caused by
fire or by injuries to cattle. The latter are really not
cases of liability without fault, as the liability is usually
imposed only where there has been a failure to comply
with some reasonable requirement, such as fencing the
railroad's right of way. This is simply an instance of the
power of the legislature to create a new obligation, failure
to observe which is a sufficient wrong to be the basis of
liability.
Mr. Frank E. Curley and Mr. L. Kearney, with whom
Mr. Frank H. Hereford was on the briefs, for defendants
in error in Nos. 20, 21.
Mr. William H. King, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. Evans Browne and Mr. F. W. Clements were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 232:
In New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188,
201, this court considered the New York Workmen's
Compensation Act, and specifically held that it was a
substituted system, devised to compensate employees or
their dependents for injuries received in certain hazardous occupations, the measure of damages being based
upon the loss of earning power, having regard to the previous wage and the character and duration of disability,
and in case of death, benefits according to the dependency of the surviving wife, husband, etc.
The Employers' Liability Lawof Arizona does not relieve
"the employer from responsibility for damages, measured
by common-law standards." It does not "require him to
contribute a reasonable amount, according to a reasonable and definite scale, by way of compensation for loss
of earning power." It is not a substituted system, assuring the employee "a definite and easily ascertained compensation," and the employee is not required to assume
"any loss beyond the prescribed scale."

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

407

Argument for Plaintiff in Error No. 332.

It abuses the recognized power of "the State to impose upon the employer the absolute duty of making a
moderate and definite compensation in money to every
disabled employee . . . in lieu of the common-law
liability confined to cases of negligence," by permitting
a recovery of an unlimited amount, not for disability
alone, as in the White Case, but for physical suffering also.
It is not a composition of losses sustained in a mutual
joint adventure (as Justice Pitney reasons), in which
accidental injury is inevitable and is expected, but it
places all of the loss, without limitation, upon one of the
"co-adventurers," to-wit, the employer.
It not only practically deprives the employer of all of
the defenses known to the common law, but takes from him
the right to defend by showing that he was guilty of no
fault. In other words, the legislation is all in favor of the
employee, and the employer is given no chance to escape
the unlimited liability imposed. When action is commenced under this act, the employer has no alternative.
He cannot relegate the employee to any other act or mode
of procedure, except the one which the employee himself has selected. And when damages have been imposed in pursuance of the provisions of this law, under
the conditions before stated the employer is deprived of
his property without due process of law, and denied the
equal protection of the law.
No counsel appeared for defendant in error in No. 232.
Mr. Edward W. Rice, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curice in No. 232.
Mr. Edward W. Rice, with whom Mr. Harvey M.
Friend was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 332:
This law is in no sense a regulation of dangerous employments. No new duty is imposed upon the employer

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 332.

250 U. S.

and he is subjected to no liability for failure to discharge
his duties, new or old. The law merely imposes a new
pecuniary liability for injuries that cannot be foreseen or
prevented by any degree of care. This cannot increase
the care of the employer or protect the employee from
injury. It merely seeks to impose a new liability on employers. It is devoid of all of the features that characterize
measures which seek to attain social justice by regulating
in the interest of the public the private relation of master
and servant out of which losses from industrial accidents
are bound to arise. Our conclusion is that this is merely a
labor law confined to the rights and liabilities of the employee and employer and not a police measure in which
the public has an interest. Consequently the question
of its validity should be determined by the principles
which govern laws affecting private rights as distinguished
from those by which police measures enacted primarily
to safeguard the public are to be tested. This court,
throughout its career, has recognized how firmly the fabric of free government rests upon the inviolability of private right. The preservation of individual liberty and
the protection of private property and of the right of
private contract are essential to all free government.
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 135; Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 237; Citizens' Savings & Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 663,
665; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 389; New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 202.
From the fact that private right must be subordinated
to the public welfare, it does not follow that in those cases
where the public welfare does not require the surrender
of private right the legislature, merely as between individuals, may make arbitrary distribution of private losses.
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 56. In the case of a
mere labor law the slightest exaction would be beyond
the legislative power. Mountain Timber Co. v. Wash-

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

409

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 332.

ington, 243 U. S. 219, 240. The law of negligence is
founded upon reason. It is reasonable that an individual
should refrain from causing injury to another by his
negligence, and that he should make recompense for injury so caused, but it is self-evident that the establishment of a rule of unlimited liability without fault as the
governing rule of individual responsibility would merely
substitute for the old natural law of non-liability a new
tyranny of irresponsible and arbitrary power. This is
precisely what the Arizona law attempts to do.
The obligation of the individual to respond in damages
for negligence and his right to immunity from liability
when not at fault are thus among those obligations and
rights that inhere in free government. It is because of
their fundamental character that they have persisted
throughout our legal history. Changes have been made
from time to time in the administration of the law of negligence, as in the defenses available to relieve one charged
with negligence, and in the extent of the duties assumed
or imposed, the breach of which shall constitute negligence, and in the rules of evidence in such cases, but the
individualistic basis of liability for personal injury, and
its converse of immunity from responsibility in the absence of negligence, as rules of individual liability, have
remained unchanged in their broad outlines. Nothing
inherent in free government or natural justice requires
that one charged with negligence should be allowed to
urge the defenses of assumption of risk, contributory negligence or fellow-servant, or that the conception of duties,
the breach of which constitute negligence, should not
develop with the unfolding industrial life of the people.
Therefore, as this court has repeatedly declared, these
defenses may be modified or entirely abrogated and new
duties may be created.
The distinction is both clear and fundamental between
the proposition that, regardless of these defenses, an

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 332.

250 U. S.

employer shall be liable in damages for his negligence,
either personal or properly imputed to him, and the further proposition that he shall be liable as for negligence
when he is in no sense at fault. Under the first proposition the question of negligence still remains, and on this
fundamental question the defendant has the right to defend. Under the second proposition, liability is practically prejudged. If the right to defend cannot thus be
taken away indirectly by a conclusive presumption of
negligence, Mobile, Jackson &c. R. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,
219 U. S. 35, 43, it cannot be taken away directly by a
departure from the principle of negligence as the basis
of individual liability for injury. Middleton v. Texas
Power & Light Co., 108 Texas, 96, 107. There are certain instances of liability which are sometimes cited
as examples of liability without fault. Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Zernecke, 183 U. S. 582, 586;
New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 204.
But when analyzed they will be found to furnish no substantial basis in reason or in law for the support of legislation such as that presented in this case. By the ancient
law of deodands, the property of a man wholly innocent
of wrong was confiscated by the Crown under the false
cloak of religion. In admiralty, the ship itself is treated
as a wrongdoer, but is only answerable for the wrong of
those in charge of her. The maxim of agency "qui facit
per alium facit per se," which is the real foundation of the
husband's liability as well as that of the master, involves
imputed fault in cases where the relation of the parties
furnishes some foundation in justice for the imposition
of liability. The fault is there, but it may not be the personal fault of the person charged with responsibility for
it. The common-law liability of the carrier and of the innkeeper, of course, did not arise out of a mere personal relation. Both pursue a public calling, one charged with a
public interest, and therefore peculiarly subject to regu-

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

411

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 332.

lation in the interest of the public. It was never the law,
so far as we know, that private carriers or private boarding-house keepers, who are free to serve whom they will,
under such contracts as they may please to make, were
liable as insurers to their patrons or guests. The analogy
between the responsibility for dangerous agencies and
liability for inevitable accidents in industry as between the
joint adventurers pursuing such industry for their mutual
profit is so remote as to furnish no real aid in the solution
of the present problem.
Statutes requiring railroad companies to fence their
rights of way and upon their failure to do so imposing
upon them liability for stock killed have been upheld.
In such cases the liability is for breach of duty validly
imposed, Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150, 158; in short, a liability for negligence. Black,
Constitutional Law, 2d ed., p. 351. Laws imposing liability for stock killed without requiring the right of way
to be fenced, on the other hand, create a liability without
fault. Such laws have been universally condemned.
It is indeed significant that in the whole legal history of
individual liability there has been such a consistent aversion to the establishment of a liability without fault. It
cannot be accounted for upon any other theory than that
the principle itself is repugnant to the fundamental rights
of liberty and property on which our institutions are
founded. This rule of individual liability is one of the
rules which the legislature is "prevented by constitutional limitations" from changing at its whim. Munn
v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113. It seems plain, therefore, that
this law is a mere labor law, concerned only with the rights
of individuals, and that as such it is clearly void.
The police power of the State is not without limitation.
Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137. The first inquiry here
is whether the law deals with a subject-matter of public
as distinguished from private concern; the second is

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 332.

250 U. S.

whether the measure is reasonably necessary and appropriate to achieve the public end sought. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 238; New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 207. Not
every law that deals with a proper subject-matter of
police regulation is to be construed as a police measure or
is to be held valid as such. Lochner v. New York, 198 U.
S. 45, 57.
The compensation systems considered by this court in
the White, Hawkins and Mountain Timber Company Cases,
regulate in a most thoroughgoing manner and in the interest of the public the whole subject-matter of compensation for industrial injury and death. The Arizona law
has nothing in common with these laws. It does not
regulate anything. As aptly remarked by Justice Ross
in his dissent in this case, "Ours is not a system but a
lawsuit."
It seems to us that the Arizona law is in no sense a
police measure. However, if we treat it as such simply
because it deals with a subject which may be regulated
in the interest of the public, it follows from what the court
has said (New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, 206), that it must be set aside as invalid unless it can
be supported as an appropriate and proper exercise of the
police power.
The extent of the public interest must mark the extreme limit of permissible interference with the private
rights of the parties. The regulation of the relation of
master and servant and of the compensation to be paid
the servant in case of injury are conceivably matters of
public concern, for the reason that, if the burden of injury losses is to fall on the workman, the injured man and
his dependents are certain, in a considerable number of
instances, to be pauperized and to be driven into vice and
crime. New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, 207. The public is concerned, in the first place, with

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

413

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 332.

the method by which compensation is secured, to the end
that it shall be fairly estimated and promptly paid, without burdensome expenses and friction between employer
and employee. In the second place, the public is concerned
with the amount of compensation so that the award shall
be sufficient to protect the workman and his dependents
against poverty and its attendant evils. This two-fold
interest of the public must find appropriate expression
in any law which can be sustained as a police regulation.
The first can be achieved only by abolishing litigation
and establishing a just system of compensation. In the
second place, as it is a matter of public concern that the
award shall be sufficient to prevent pauperism and its
evils, it is of equal concern that the award shall not
exceed what is reasonably necessary to protect the workman and his dependents in these respects.
The physical hurt must be borne by the injured person;
it cannot be shifted. New York Central R. R. Co. v. White,
243 U. S. 188, 203. Neither can the physical hurt be
measured in terms of money. A law which authorizes an
award of damages for pain and suffering and kindred elements does not serve the public interest. It does, however, open wide the door for speculative verdicts, which
bear no true relation to the public interest or to the pecuniary loss sustained by the injured man. Neither can
there be any suggestion of public concern in saddling
upon the industry, or upon a particular employer, an
unlimited liability to the estate of a deceased workman
who has left no one dependent upon his labors, and
therefore no one who has suffered pecuniary loss by his
death.
This court, in the compensation cases, has expressly
refrained from specifying the legal limits of permissible
compensation under compensation laws. Nevertheless,
the decisions make it clear that compensation must be
based upon earnings, and cannot be allowed for specula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 334.

250 U. S.

tive elements such as are included in the damages awarded
under the Arizona law. It is equally manifest from these
decisions that the rate of compensation must be certain
or ascertainable on some definite basis and that it must be
limited in amount. These restrictions follow logically
from the court's conception of the compensation system
as disregarding the immediate cause of the accident and
as treating the employment itself for which employer and
employee are jointly responsible as the true cause of the
injury.
The Arizona law is as inconsistent with this conception
as is the common law. It relieves the employer of none
of the evils of the common law, but saddles upon him a
new lawsuit for damages according to common-law standards, where he has exercised the utmost human care, and,
in addition, penalizes him 12 per cent. of the jury's award
if he fails on appeal.
Mr. Graham Foster, for defendant in error in No. 332,
submitted. Mr. Hugh M. Foster and Mr. George F. Senner were on the brief.
Mr. Cleon T. Knapp, for plaintiff in error in No. 334,
submitted:
If there is any justification for the enactment of such
a law it must be found in the police power. This court
has repeatedly recognized the difficulty of exactly defining
that power. It is generally recognized as the right of a
State to legislate for its general welfare and betterment.
The extent to which it may be exercised is dependent
largely upon industrial and social conditions. Each exercise must be measured of itself. Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Camfield v. United States, 167 U.
S. 518.
The police power cannot be used in an arbitrary manner, calculated to deprive one of private rights. While it

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

415

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 334.

"extends to all great public needs" those same public
needs place a limitation upon its valid exercise. The rule
of reason must be applied. Hurtado v. California, 110 U.
S. 516; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Hallinger v. Davis, 146
U. S. 314; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Barbier v.
Connolly, 113 U. S. 27. The power cannot be used as an
excuse for unjust and oppressive legislation. Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356.
The question presented then is whether this law is
calculated to benefit the public needs. And the test to be
applied is not the mere wording, but whether in practice
it would actually accomplish an object beneficial to the
health, safety and general welfare. Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45.
The Arizona Employers' Liability Law is in no way
designed to benefit either the health, safety or general
welfare. If it were designed to benefit the health and
safety of employees it would be beneficial to public wel-.
fare. But it is not. If it removed existing ills in present
social, industrial, or economic conditions in Arizona, it
might, under certain circumstances, be beneficial to public welfare. But it does not. It adds to existing ills.
If any justification can be found for the law, it must be
upon reasons supporting the legality of compulsory compensation acts. And it is solely upon such grounds
that the Arizona Supreme Court attempted to justify its
legality.
We assume that the decisions of this court in the White,
Hawkins, and Mountain Timber Company Cases cover the
field of justification for enactment of compensation laws.
And if there is justification for this law, it must be found
in the reasons there given. The decisions in those cases
are influenced by the consideration that the legislature in
the enactment of those laws substituted a substantial

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 334.

250 U. S.

equivalent. Our quarrel with the Arizona law is not so
much that it abrogates the common-law rules of liability
as that it absolutely fails to set up something adequate
in their stead. It cannot be justified upon any of the
grounds supporting the legality of compensation acts.
It is not a "method of compensation." It is a suit for
damages. It preserves the jury system of awarding
damages in an unlimited amount, and should the employer be presumptuous enough to appeal, he is what
might be called fined, by being assessed interest on the
judgment at 12 per cent. The New York law was not
pronounced arbitrary and unreasonable, for the reason
that the compensation was moderate and definite. Under
this law, judged by its history, the awards will never be
moderate and never definite. It provides for damages
not alone for loss of earning power, but for pain, suffering, mental and physical anguish, and humiliation, and
the jury is quick to consider all such elements.
No evil attendant upon the old personal injury litigation has been removed. The law's delay, the court expense, the large attorney fee, the oft-times miscarriage of
justice by inadequate verdicts, and more often by excessive verdicts, the bitterness growing from litigation; all
these and many more are still attendant upon the trail
of this law. Every reason prompting the enactment of
compensation laws is lacking to support it. It is not designed in the remotest way to protect health, safety or
public welfare. It is not a valid exercise of police power.
The Arizona Supreme Court vainly searched for authorities to justify the constitutionality of the law, and was
forced to base its decision entirely upon the reasons given
in the White Case upholding the New York Compensation
Law.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, for defendant in error in No. 334,
submitted.

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

417

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In each of these cases, a workman in a hazardous industry in the State of Arizona, having received in the course
of his employment a personal injury through an accident
due to a condition or conditions of the occupation, not
caused by his own negligence or so far as appears by that
of his employer or others, brought action under the Employers' Liability Law of Arizona, and recovered compensatory damages against the employer ascertained upon a
consideration of the nature, extent, and disabling effects
of the injury in each particular case. And the question is
raised whether the statute referred to, as applied to the
facts of these cases, is repugnant to that provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment which declares that no State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
Art. XVIII of the constitution of the State of Arizona
is entitled "Labor," and contains, among others, the
following sections:
"SECTION 4. The common law doctrine of fellow servants, so far as it affects the liability of a master for injuries to his servants resulting from the acts or omissions
of any other servant or servants of the common master is
forever abrogated.
"SECTION 5. The defense of contributory negligence or
of assumption of risk shall, in all cases whatsoever, be a
question of fact and shall, at all times, be left to the jury.
"SECTION 6. The right of action to recover damages
for injuries shall never be abrogated, and the amount
recovered shall not be subject to any statutory limitation.
"SECTION 7. To protect the safety of employees in all
hazardous occupations, in mining, smelting, manufacturing, railroad or street railway transportation, or any other
industry the Legislature shall enact an Employers' Lia-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

bility law, by the terms of which any employer, whether
individual, association, or corporation shall be liable for
the death or injury, caused by any accident due to a
condition or conditions of such occupation, of any employee in the service of such employer in such hazardous
occupation, in all cases in which such death or injury of
such employee shall not have been caused by the negligence of the employee killed or injured.
"SECTION 8. The Legislature shall enact a Workmen's
Compulsory Compensation law applicable to workmen
engaged in manual or mechanical labor in such employments as the Legislature may determine to be especially
dangerous, by which compulsory compensation shall be
required to be paid to any such workman by his employer, if in the course of such employment personal injury to any such workmen from any accident arising out
of, and in the course of, such employment is caused in
whole, or in part, or is contributed to, by a necessary risk
or danger of such employment, or a necessary risk or
danger inherent in the nature thereof, or by failure of
such employer, or any of his or its officers, agents, or employee, or employees, to exercise due care, or to comply
with any [law?I affecting such employment; Provided,
that it shall be optional with said employee to settle for
such compensation, or retain the right to sue said employer
as provided by this Constitution."
Pursuant to ยง 7 the Employers' Liability Law was
enacted (c. 89, Laws 1912, Reg. Sess.; Arizona Rev. Stats.
1913, pars. 3153-3162); pursuant to ยง 8 a Workmen's
Compulsory Compensation Law was enacted (c. 14, Laws
1912, 1st Spec. Sess.; Arizona Rev. Stats. 1913, pars. 3163,
et seq.).
In two of the present cases the former law was sustained
by the Supreme Court of Arizona against attacks based
upon the Fourteenth Amendment. Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co. v. Mendez, 19 Arizona, 151; Superior &

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

419

Opinion of the Court.

Pittsburg Copper Co. v. Tomich, 19 Arizona, 182. In the
three other cases it was sustained by the United States
District Court for that District. And the resulting judgments in favor of the injured workmen are brought under
our review by writs of error.
Some of the arguments submitted to us assail the wisdom and policy of the act because of its novelty, because
of its one-sided effect in depriving the employer of defenses while giving him (as is said) nothing in return,
leaving the damages unlimited, and giving to the employee
the option of several remedies; as tending not to obviate
but to promote litigation; and as pregnant with danger to
the industries of the State. With such considerations this
court can not concern itself. Novelty is not a constitutional objection, since under constitutional forms of government each State may have a legislative body endowed
with authority to change the law. In what respects it
shall be changed, and to what extent, is in the main confided to the several States; and it is to be presumed that
their legislatures, being chosen by the people, understand
and correctly appreciate their needs. The States are left
with a wide range of legislative discretion, notwithstanding
the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment; and their
conclusions respecting the wisdom of their legislative acts
are not reviewable by the courts.
We have been called upon recently to deal with various
forms of workmen's compensation and employers' liability statutes. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.
1, 47-53; New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, 196, et seq.; Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Middleton v.
Texas Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152. These decisions
have established the propositions that the rules of law
concerning the employer's responsibility for personal injury or death of an employee arising in the course of the
employment are not beyond alteration by legislation in

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the public interest; that no person has a vested right
entitling him to have these any more than other rules of
law remain unchanged for his benefit; and that, if we exclude arbitrary and unreasonable changes, liability may
be imposed upon the employer without fault, and the
rules respecting his responsibility to one employee for the
negligence of another and respecting contributory negligence and assumption of risk are subject to legislative
change.
The principal contention is that the Arizona Employers'
Liability Law deprives the employer of property without
due process of law, and denies to him the equal protection
of the laws, because it imposes a liability without fault,
and, as is said, without equivalent protection. The statute, in respect of certain specified employments designated as inherently hazardous and dangerous to workmenand reasonably so described-imposes upon the employer,
without regard to the question of his fault or that of any
person for whose conduct he is responsible, a liability in
compensatory damages-excluding all such as are speculative or punitive (Arizona Copper Co. v. Burciaga, 177
Pac. Rep. 29)-for accidental personal injury or death of
an employee arising out of and in the course of the employment and due to a condition or conditions of the occupation, in cases where such injury or death of the employee
shall not have been caused by his own negligence. This
is the substance of pars. 3154 and 3158, and they are to be
read in connection with par. 3156, which declares what
occupations are hazardous within the meaning of the law.
By par. 3160, contracts and regulations exempting the
employer from liability are declared to be void.
In effect, the statute requires the employer, instead of
the employee, to assume the pecuniary risk of injury or
death of the employee attributable to hazards inherent
in the employment and due to its conditions and not to the
negligence of the employee killed or injured. In deter-

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

421

Opinion of the Court.

mining whether this departure from the previous rule is
so arbitrary or inconsistent with the fundamental rights
of the employer as to render the law repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment, it is to be borne in mind that
the matter of the assumption of the risks of employment
and the consequences to flow therefrom has been regulated time out of mind by the common law, with occasional
statutory modifications. The rule existing in the absence of statute, as usually enunciated, is that all consequences of risks inherent in the occupation and normally
incident to it are assumed by the employee and afford
no ground of action by him or those claiming under him,
in the absence of negligence by the employer; and even
risks arising from or increased by the failure of the employer to take the care that he ought to take for the employee's safety are assumed by the latter if he is aware of
them or if they are so obvious that any ordinarily prudent
person under the circumstances could not fail to observe
and appreciate them; but if the employee, having become aware of a risk arising out of a defect attributable
to the employer's negligence, makes complaint or objection and obtains a promise of reparation, the common
law brings into play a new set of regulations, requiring the
employer to assume the risk under certain circumstances,
the employee under others. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 504, 505; 239 U. S. 595, 598, 599;
and cases cited.
But these are no more than rules of law, deduced by the
courts as reasonable and just, under the conditions of our
civilization, in view of the relations existing between employer and employee in the absence of legislation. They
are not placed, by the Fourteenth Amendment, beyond
the reach of the State's power to alter them, as rules of
future conduct and tests of responsibility, through legislation designed to promote the general welfare, so long as
it does not interfere arbitrarily and unreasonably, and in

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

defiance of natural justice, with the right of employers
and employees to agree between themselves respecting
the terms and conditions of employment.
We are unable to say that the Employers' Liability
Law of Arizona, in requiring the employer in hazardous
industries to assume-so far as pecuniary consequences
go-the entire risk of injury to the employee attributable
to accidents arising in the course of the employment and
due to its inherent conditions, exceeds the bounds of
permissible legislation or interferes with the constitutional
rights of the employer. The answer that the common law
makes to the hardship of requiring the employee to assume all consequences, both personal and pecuniary, of
injuries arising out of the ordinary dangers of the occupation is that the parties enter into the contract of employment with these risks in view, and that the consequences
ought to be, and presumably are, taken into consideration
in fixing the rate of wages. Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
Paul Ry. Co. v. Ross, 112 U. S. 377, 383; Northern Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 647; New York Central
R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 199; Farwell v. Boston
& Worcester R. R. Corp., 4 Metc. 49, 57. In like manner
the employer, if required-as he is by this statute in some
occupations-to assume the pecuniary loss arising from
such injury to the employee, may take this into consideration in fixing the rate of wages; besides which he
has an opportunity, which the employee has not, to
charge the loss as a part of the cost of the product of
the industry.
There is no question here of punishing one who is
without fault. That, we may concede, would be contrary
to natural justice. But, as we have seen, the statute limits the recovery strictly to compensatory damages. And
there is no discrimination between employer and employee
except such as necessarily arises from their different relations to the common undertaking. Both are essential

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

423

Opinion of the Court.

to it, the one to furnish capital, organization, and guidance,
the other to perform the manual work; both foresee that
the occupation is of such a nature, and its conditions such,
that sooner or later some of the workmen will be physically injured or maimed, occasionally one killed, without
particular fault on anybody's part. (See 243 U. S. 203.)
The statute requires that compensation shall be paid to
the injured workman or his dependents, because it is
upon them that the first brunt of the loss falls; and that
it shall be paid by the employer, because he takes the
gross receipts of the common enterprise, and by reason
of his position of control can make such adjustments as
ought to be and practically can be made, in the way of
reducing wages and increasing the selling price of the
product, in order to allow for the statutory liability.
There could be no more rational basis for a discrimination; and it is clear that in this there is no denial of the
''equal protection of the laws."
Under the "due process" clause, the ultimate contention is that men have an indefeasible right to employ
their fellow men to work under conditions where, as all
parties know, from time to time some of the workmen
inevitably will be killed or injured, but where nobody
knows or can know in advance which particular men or
how many will be the victims, or how serious will be the
injuries, and hence no adequate compensation can be
included in the wages; and to employ them thus with the
legitimate object of making a profit above their wages
if all goes well, but with immunity from particular loss if
things go badly with the workmen through no fault of
their own, and they suffer physical injury or death in the
course of their employment. In view of the subject-matter, and of the public interest involved, we cannot assent
to the proposition that the rights of life, liberty, and property guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment prevent
the States from modifying that rule of the common law

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

which requires or permits the workingman to take the
chances in such a lottery.
The act-assuming, as we must, that it be justly administered-adds no new burden of cost to industry, although it does bring to light a burden that previously
existed but perhaps was unrecognized, by requiring that
its costs be taken into the reckoning. The burden is due
to the hazardous nature of the industry, and is inevitable
if the work of the world is to go forward. What the act
does is merely to require that it shall be assumed, to the
extent of a pecuniary equivalent of the actual and proximate damage sustained by the workman or those near
to him, by the employer-by him who organizes the enterprise, hires the workmen, fixes the wages, sets a price
upon the product, pays the costs, and takes for his reward
the net profits, if any.
The interest of the State is obvious. We declared in the
White Case (243 U. S. 207): "It cannot be doubted that
the State may prohibit and punish self-maiming and
attempts at suicide; it may prohibit a man from bartering away his life or his personal security; indeed, the
right to these is often declared, in bills of rights, to be
'natural and inalienable'; and the authority to prohibit
contracts made in derogation of a lawfully established
policy of the State respecting compensation for accidental
death or disabling personal injury is equally clear. .
This statute does not concern itself with measures of prevention, which presumably are embraced in other laws.
But the interest of the public is not confined to these.
One of the grounds of its concern with the continued life
and earning power of the individual is its interest in the
prevention of pauperism, with its concomitants of vice
and crime. And, in our opinion, laws regulating the responsibility of employers for the injury or death of employees arising out of the employment bear so close a relation to the protection of the lives and safety of those

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

425

Opinion of the Court.

concerned that they properly may be regarded as coming
within the category of police regulations." (Citing cases.)
And in Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S.
219, 239, it was said: "Certainly, the operation of industrial establishments that in the ordinary course of things
frequently and inevitably produce disabling or mortal
injuries to the human beings employed is not a matter of
wholly private concern."
Having this interest, the State of Arizona reasonably
might say: "The rule of the common law requiring the
employee to assume all consequences of personal injuries
arising out of the ordinary dangers and normal conditions of a hazardous occupation, and to secure his indemnity in advance in the form of increased wages, is
incompatible with the public interest because-assuming
that workmen are on an equality with employers in a
negotiation about the rate of wages-the probability of
injury occurring to a particular employee, and the nature
and extent of such injury, are so contingent and speculative that it is impracticable for either employer or employee approximately to estimate in advance how much
allowance should be made for them in the wages; and
even were a proper allowance made, experience demonstrates that under our conditions of life it is not to be
expected that the average workingman will set aside out
of his wages a proper insurance against the time when he
may be injured or killed. Hence, recognizing that injuries to workmen constitute a part of the unavoidable
cost of hazardous industries, we will require that it be
assumed by the one in control of the industry as employer,
just as he pays other items of cost; so that he shall not
take a profit from the labor of his employees while leaving the injured ones, and the dependents of those whose
lives are lost, through accidents due to the conditions of
the occupation, to be a burden upon the public."
Whether this or similar reasoning was employed, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

have no means of knowing; whether, if employed, it
ought to have been accepted as convincing, is not for us
to decide. It being incumbent upon the opponents of the
law to demonstrate that it is clearly unreasonable and
arbitrary, it is sufficient for us to declare, as we do, that
such reasoning would be pertinent to the subject and not
so unfounded or irrational as to permit us to say that the
State, if it accepted it as a basis for changing the law in a
matter so closely related to the public welfare, exceeded
the restrictions placed upon its action by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
It is objected that the responsibility of the employer
under this statute is unlimited; but this is not true except as it is true of every action for compensatory damages
where the amount awarded varies in accordance with the
nature and extent of the damages for which compensation
is made. It is said that in actions by employees against
employers juries are prone to render extravagant verdicts.
The same thing has been said, and with equal reason, concerning actions brought by individuals against railroad
companies, traction companies, and other corporations.
In this, as in other cases, there is a corrective in the authority of the court to set aside an exorbitant verdict. And it
amounts to a contradiction of terms to say that in submitting a controversy between litigants to the established
courts, there to be tried according to long-established
modes and with a constitutional jury to determine the
issues of fact and assess compensatory damages, there is
a denial of "due process of law."
Much stress is laid upon that part of our opinion in the
White Case where, after citing numerous previous decisions upholding the authority of the States to establish
by legislation departures from the fellow-servant rule and
other common-law rules affecting the employer's liability
for personal injuries to the employee, we said (243 U. S.
201): "It is true that in the case of the statutes thus

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

427

Opinion of the Court.

sustained there were reasons rendering the particular
departures appropriate. Nor is it necessary, for the purposes of the present case, to say that a State might, without violence to the constitutional guaranty of 'due process
of law,' suddenly set aside all common-law rules respecting
liability as between employer and employee, without pro. No such quesviding a reasonably just substitute. .
tion is here presented, and we intimate no opinion upon it.
The statute under consideration sets aside one body of
rules only to establish another system in its place," etc.
In spite of our declaration that no opinion was intimated, this is treated as an intimation that a statute
such as the one now under consideration, creating a new
and additional right of action and allowing no defense (if
the conditions of liability be shown) unless the accident
was caused by the negligence of the injured employee,
would be regarded as in conflict with the due process
clause. We cannot, however, regard this statute as
anything else than a substitute for the law as it previously
stood; whether it be a proper substitute was for the
people of the State of Arizona to determine; but we find
no ground for declaring that they have acted so arbitrarily,
unreasonably, and unjustly as to render their action void.
They have resolved that the consequences of a personal
injury to an employee attributable to the inherent dangers of the occupation shall be assumed, not wholly by the
particular employee upon whom the personal injury happens to fall, but, to the extent of a compensation in money
awarded in a judicial tribunal according to the ordinary
processes of law, shall be assumed by the employer;
leaving the latter to charge it up, so far as he can, as a
part of the cost of his product, just as he would charge
a loss by fire, by theft, by bad debts, or any other usual
loss of the business; and to make allowance for it, so far
as he can, in a reduced scale of wages. And they have
come to this resolution, we repeat, not in a matter of in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

difference, or upon a question of mere economics, but in
the course of regulating the conduct of those hazardous
industries in which human beings-their own people-in
the pursuit of a livelihood must expose themselves to
death or to physical injuries more or less disabling, with
consequent impoverishment, partial or total, of the workman or those dependent upon him. The statute says to
the employer, in effect: "You shall not employ your fellow
men in a hazardous occupation for gain, you being in a
position to reap a reward in money through selling the
product of their toil, unless you come under an obligation
to make appropriate compensation in money in case of
their death or injury due to the conditions of the occupation." The rule being based upon reasonable grounds
affecting the public interest, being established in advance
and applicable to all alike under similar circumstances,
there is, in our opinion, no infringement of the fundamental
rights protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Some expressions contained in our opinion in the White
Case (243 U. S. 203, 204, 205,) are treated in argument as
if they were equivalent to saying that if a State, in making
a legislative adjustment of employers' liability, departs
from the common-law system of basing responsibility
upon fault, it must confine itself to a limited compensation,
measured and ascertained according to the methods
adopted in the compensation acts of the present day. Of
course nothing of the kind was intended. In a previous
part of the opinion (pp. 196-200) it had been shown that
the employer had no constitutional right to continued
immunity from liability in the absence of negligence, nor
to have the fellow-servant rule and the rules respecting
contributory negligence and assumption of risk remain
unchanged. The statutory plan of compensation for
injured workmen and the dependents of those fatally
injured-an additional feature at variance with the
common law-was then upheld; but, of course, without

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

429

Opinion of the Court.

saying that no other would be constitutional. For if, as
we held in that case, the novel statutory scheme of awarding compensation according to a prearranged scale is sustainable, it follows, perhaps a fortiori, that the Arizona
method of ascertaining the compensation according to
the facts of each particular case--substantially the common law method-is free from objection on constitutional
grounds. Indeed, if a State recognizes or establishes a
right of action for compensation to injured workmen
upon grounds not arbitrary or fundamentally unjust, the
question whether the award shall be measured as compensatory damages are measured at common law, or
according to some prescribed scale reasonably adapted
to produce a fair result, is for the State itself to determine. Whether the compensation should be paid in a
single sum after judgment recovered, as is required by the
Arizona Employers' Liability Law just as under the
common law system in the case of a judgment based upon
negligence, or whether it would be more prudent to distribute the award by instalment payments covering the
period of disability or of need, likewise is for the State to
determine, and upon this the plaintiffs in error can raise
no constitutional question.
To the suggestion that the act now or hereafter may be
extended by construction to non-hazardous occupations,
it may be replied: first, that the occupations in which
these actions arose were indisputably hazardous, hence
plaintiffs in error have no standing to raise the question
(Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 544;
Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576; Hendrick
v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 621; Middleton v. Texas Power
& Light Co., 249 U. S. 152, 157); and secondly, it hardly
is necessary to add that employers in non-hazardous industries are in little danger from the act, since it imposes
liability only for accidental injuries attributable to the
inherent dangers of the occupation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

To the objection that the benefits of the act may be
extended, in the case of death claims, to those not nearly
related to or dependent upon the workman, or even may
go by escheat to the State, it is sufficient to say that no
such question is involved in these records; in Arizona
Copper Co. v. Burciaga, 177 Pac. Rep. 29, a case of personal injuries not fatal, the Supreme Court of Arizona
interpreted the act as limiting the recovery to compensatory damages; it reasonably may be so construed in
its application to death claims; and it would be improper
for this court to assume in advance that the state court
will place such a construction upon the statute as to render
it obnoxious to the Federal Constitution. Plymouth Coal
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 546; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.350, 369.
It is insisted that the Arizona system deprives employers of property without due process of law and denies
them equal protection because it confers upon the employee a free choice among several remedies. In Consolidated Arizona Smelting Co. v. Ujack, 15 Arizona, 382, 384,
the Supreme Court of the State said: "Under the laws of
Arizona, an employee who is injured in the course of his
employment has open to him three avenues of redress,
any one of which he may pursue according to the facts
of his case. They are: (1) The common-law liability relieved of the fellow-servant defense and in which the
defenses of contributory negligence and assumption of risk
are questions to be left to the jury. Const., sees. 4, 5,
art. 18. (2) Employers' liability law, which applies to
hazardous occupations where the injury or death is not
caused by his own negligence. Const., see. 7, art. 18.
(3) The compulsory compensation law, applicable to
especially dangerous occupations, by which he may recover compensation without fault upon the part of the
employer. Const., sec. 8, art. 18." It is said by counsel
that the compensation act, because it limits the recovery,

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

431

HoLMEs, J., concurring.

never is resorted to in practice unless the employee has
been negligent and hence is debarred of a remedy under
the liability act. But it is thoroughly settled by our previous decisions that a State may abolish contributory
negligence as a defense; and election of remedies is an
option very frequently given by the law to a person entitled to an action; an option normally exercised to his
own advantage, as a matter of course.
Other points are suggested, but none requiring particular discussion.
Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE HoLMEs concurring.'
The plaintiff (the defendant in error) was employed in
the defendant's mine, was hurt in the eye in consequence
of opening a compressed air valve and brought the present
suit. The injury was found to have been due to risks inherent to the business and so was within the Employers'
Liability Law of Arizona, Rev. Stats. 1913, Title 14, c. 6.
By that law as construed the employer is liable to damages
for injuries due to such risks in specified hazardous employments when guilty of no negligence. Par. 3158.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff, judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 19 Arizona,
151, and the case comes here on the single question
whether, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment,
such liability can be imposed. It is taken to exclude
"speculative, exemplary and punitive damages," but to
include all loss to the employee caused by the accident,
not merely in the way of earning capacity, but of disfigurement and bodily or mental pain. See Arizona
Copper Co. v. Burciaga, 177 Pac. Rep. 29, 33.
There is some argument made for the general proposiI This concurring opinion was delivered ihi on" of the five cases, viz,
No. 332, InspirationConsolidated ('oppr (ompany v. Mendez.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
HOLMES, J., concurring.

250 U. S.

tion that immunity from liability when not in fault is a
right inherent in free government and the obiter dicta of
Mr. Justice Miller in [Citizens' Savings &I Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, are referred to. But if it is
thought to be public policy to put certain voluntary conduct at the peril of those pursuing it, whether in the interest of safety or upon economic or other grounds, I know
of nothing to hinder. A man employs a servant at the
peril of what that servant may do in the course of his
employment and there is nothing in the Constitution to
limit the principle to that instance. St. Louis & San
Francisco Ry. Co. v. Mathews, 165 U. S. 1, 22. Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Zernecke, 183 U. S. 582,
586. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 295. See Guy v. Donald, 203 U. S.
399, 406. There are cases in which even the criminal law
requires a man to know facts at his peril. Indeed, the
criterion which is thought to be free from constitutional
objection, the criterion of fault, is the application of an
external standard, the conduct of a prudent man in the
known circumstances, that is, in doubtful cases, the
opinion of the jury, which the defendant has to satisfy
at his peril and which he may miss after giving the matter
his best thought. The Germanic, 196 U. S. 589, 596. Nash
v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377. Eastern States Retail
Lumber Dealers' Association v. United States, 234 U. S.
600, 610. Miller v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426, 434. Without
further amplification so much may be taken to be established by the decisions. New York Central R. R. Co. v.
White, 243 U. S. 188, 198, 204. Mountain Timber Co. v.
Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 336.
I do not perceive how the validity of the law is affected
by the fact that the employee is a party to the venture.
There is no more certain way of securing attention to the
safety of the men, an unquestionably constitutional object of legislation, than by holding the employer liable

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

HOLMES,

433

J., concurring.

for accidents. Like the crimes to which I have referred
they probably will happen a good deal less often when the
employer knows that he must answer for them if they do.
I pass, therefore, to the other objection urged and most
strongly pressed. It is that the damages are governed by
the rules governing in action of tort-that is, as we have
said, that they may include disfigurement and bodily or
mental pain. Natural observations are made on the
tendency of juries when such elements are allowed. But
if it is proper to allow them of course no objection can be
founded on the supposed foibles of the tribunal that the
Constitution of the United States and the States have
established. Why then, is it not proper to allow them?
It is said that the pain cannot be shifted to another. Neither can the loss of a leg. But one can be paid for as well
as the other. It is said that these elements do not constitute an economic loss, in the sense of diminished power
to produce. They may. Ball v. William Hunt & Sons,
Ltd., [1912], A. C. 496. But whether they do or not they
are as much part of the workman's loss as the loss of a
limb. The legislature may have reasoned thus. If a business is unsuccessful it means that the public does not care
enough for it to make it pay. If it is successful the public
pays its expenses and something more. It is reasonable
that the public should pay the whole cost of producing
what it wants and a part of that cost is the pain and mutilation incident to production. By throwing that loss upon
the employer in the first instance we throw it upon the
public in the long run and that is just. If a legislature
should reason in this way and act accordingly it seems to
me that it is within constitutional bounds. Erickson v.
Preuss, 223 N. Y. 365. It is said that the liability is unlimited, but this is not true. It is limited to a conscientious valuation of the loss suffered. Apart from the control exercised by the judge it is to be hoped that juries
would realize that unreasonable verdicts would tend to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

make the business impossible and thus to injure those
whom they might wish to help. But whatever they may
do we must accept the tribunal, as I have said, and are
bound to assume that they will act rightly and confine
themselves to the proper scope of the law.
It is not urged that the provision allowing twelve per
cent. interest on the amount of the judgment from the date
of filing the suit, in case of an unsuccessful appeal, is void.
Fidelity Mutual Life Association v. Mettler, 185 U. S.
308, 325-327. Consaul v. Cummings, 222 U. S. 262, 272.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur in this statement of additional reasons that lead me
to agree with the opinion just delivered by my brother
PITNEY.
MR. JUSTICE MCIENNA

dissenting.

I find myself unable to concur, yet reluctant to dissent.
The case is of the kind that, once pronounced, will be a
rule in like or cognate cases forever,-indeed, may even
be extended. It is said to rest on the cases sustaining the
workmen's compensation law of New York, 243 U. S.
188, and its associated cases in the same volume upholding like laws of other States. The present case certainly
comes after those cases and has that symptom of being
their sequence. They cannot be said to have been easy
of judgment against the contentions and conservatism
which opposed them, and there was, at least to me, no
prophecy of their extent, and therefore to me the present
case is a step beyond them. I hope it is something more
than timidity, dread of the new, that makes me fear that
it is a step from the deck to the sea-the metaphor suggests a peril in the consequences.
But let me in a more concrete way make application of
this comment. I may assume that the purpose and principle and general extent of workmen's compensation laws

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

McKENNA,

435

J., dissenting.

are known. I must rest on that assumption for even an
epitome of them or the reasons for them would unduly
extend this dissent. The Arizona law has no resemblance
to them. It is a direct charge of liability upon the employer for death or injury incurred in his employment, he
being without fault. Its remedies are the ordinary legal
remedies; its measure of relief, however, has in it something more than the ordinary measures of relief, certainly
not those of the compensation laws, nor is it as considerate and guarded as they. If its validity, therefore, can
be deduced from the cases explanatory of those laws, it
can only be done by bringing its instances and theirs under
the same generalization, that is, that it is competent for
government to charge liability and exempt from responsibility according as one is employer or employee, there
being no other circumstance than that relation. Of this
there can be no disguise. It may be confused by argument
and attempt at historical analogies and deductions, but
to that comprehensive principle the case must come at
last. All else is adventitious and puts out of view the
relation of the factors of production. It puts out of view
that employers are as necessary to production as employees, and subjects to peril the voluntary conduct of the former and leaves out of account as an element the voluntary
conduct of the latter. In other words, there is a clear
discrimination,-a class distinction with its legal circumstances and, I may say, invidious circumstances, in view of
some of the reasons adduced in its justification. And these
effects cannot be concealed under any camouflage nor given
the plausible and attractive gloss of public policy, justified
by the different conditions of employer and employee.
Unquestionably there is a difference-it constitutes the
life of the relation. But the question is, Who shall compensate the injury that may result from the relation,
voluntary assumed by both, urged by their respective
interests and a calculation of advantage?

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
McKENNA, J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

But I pass this discrimination and return to the law
as a violation of the employer's rights considered absolutely and abstractly. It seems to me to be of the very
foundation of right-of the essence of liberty as it is of
morals-to be free from liability if one is free from fault.
It has heretofore been the sense of the law and the sense
of the world, pervading the regulations of both, that there
can be no punishment where there is no blame; and yet
the court now by its decision erects the denial of these
postulates of conduct into a principle of law and governmental policy. In other words, it is said to be a benefit
to government to put the exact discharge of duty under
the menace of penalty and invert the conceptions of mankind of the relation of right and wrong action. If the
legislation does not punish without fault what does it do?
The question is pertinent. Consider what the employer
does: he invests his money in productive enterprisemining, smelting, manufacturing, railroading-he engages
employees at their request and pays them the wages they
demand, he takes all of the risks of the adventure. Now
there is put upon him an immeasurable element that may
make disaster inevitable. I find it difficult to answer the
argument advanced to support or palliate this effect or
independently of it to justify the interference with rights.
It is a certain impeachment of some rights to assume that
they need justification and a betrayal of them to make
them a matter of controversy. There are precepts of
constitutional law as there are precepts of moral law
that reach the conviction of aphorisms and are immediately accepted by all who understand them, and comment
is considered as confusing as unnecessary. I say this,
not in dogmatism, but in expression of my vision of things,
and I say it with deference to the contrary judgments of
my brethren of the majority.
Of course, reasons may be found for the violation of
rights, advantage to somebody or something in that viola-

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

437

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

tion. Tyranny even may find pretexts and seldom boldly
bids its will avouch its acts, and certainly there can be no
accusation of bare-faced power in the Arizona law. Its
motives and purposes are worthy and it requires some
resolution of duty to resist them. It must be seen and
is seen, however, that the difference between the position
of employer and employee, simply considering the latter
as economically weaker, is not a justification for the violation of the rights of the former, and that individual rights
cannot be made to yield to philanthropy, and therefore
the welfare of the government is brought forward and
displayed. The law saves the government, is the comment, from the burden of paupers, its administration and
peace from the disturbance of criminals. The answer,
I think, is immediate. Government, certainly constitutional government, cannot afford to infringe, indeed,
betrays its purpose if it infringes, a right of anybody upon
money considerations or for ease in the exercise of its
faculties.
But granting that there is something in the argument,
what shall be the limits of its application? Will it extend
the principle of the present case to non-hazardous employments? If not, why not? The Arizona law stops
with certain occupations which it calls "hazardous," but
it includes in the description "manufacturing" without
qualifying words. In the New York compensation law
passed on in New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, there were forty-two groups of hazardous occupations.
In Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, the
court had quite a struggle with the provisions of the
Washington compensation law, which was so far different
from those of the other cases as to incur the dissent of
members of the court. It is now, I think, of pertinent
inquiry whether the quality of being hazardous is an inherent and necessary element of legality or a matter of
legislative definition and policy. Besides, if there can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MOKENNA, J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

liability without fault in one occupation, and that can
be a principle of legislation, why not in any other? Who
is to determine the application, court or legislature? If
the latter, a court may not even express apprehension of
its exercise, and yet it cannot put out of view the drift
of events and in blind fatalism await their incidence when
called upon to consider the legality of such exercise. We
know things are in change-have changed-and a mark
of it is that the drift of public opinion, and of legislation
following opinion, is to alter the relation between employer
and employee and to give to the latter a particular distinction, relieve him from a responsibility which would
seem to be, and which until lately it has been the sense of
the world to be, as much upon him as upon his employer,
not in dependence, not as a mark of subservience, but as an
obligation of his freedom, and, therefore as a consequence,
that where he has liberty of action he has responsibility
for action. In a word, the drift of opinion and legislation
now is to set labor apart and to withdraw it from its conditions and from the action of economic forces and their
consequences, give it immunity from the pitilessness of
life. And there are appealing considerations for this
drift of opinion and inevitable sympathy with it as with
many other conditions, but which the law cannot relieve
by a sacrifice of constitutional rights. In what legislation
the drift (it is persuasion in some) may culminate cannot
now be predicted, but it is very certain that, whatever it
be, the judgment now delivered will be cited to justify it.
Will it not be said that if one right of an employer can be
made to give way, why not another?-made a condition
"upon economic or other grounds" of his enterprise. Indeed, may not the question be made more general, and
if in supposed benefit to a particular class, and through
benefit to them to the public, there may be constraint
upon or the imposition of burden upon one right of a
citizen, why not upon another? There is, therefore, I

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

MoKErNNA,

439

J., dissenting.

think, menace in the present judgment to all rights,
subjecting them unreservedly to conceptions of public
policy. If, however, this general apprehension be not
justified, there is threat enough in the judgment of the
court to the interest of employers generally as a result
of the difference in conditions.
A rather curious argument is used to support the
Arizona law. It is said, in justification of its discrimination between employer and employee, that the employer
may in relief from it and rescue from its burdens pass
them to the consumers of his products, as he does or may
do in the case of other expenses of his venture, and in the
long-run their incidence is, as it is said it should be, on
the public, and that the legislature in so considering was
reasoning within constitutional bounds. There is attractive speciousness in the argument. The individual employer seems to be devested of grievance and the problem
the law presents to be one of economics and governmental
policy; is a kind of taxation, an expense of government,
the burden of which is properly laid upon the public and
over which a court can have but limited power.
If it is intended by the argument to express no more
than a tendency, while it has no relevancy, I think, upon
the validity of the law, there may be no danger in it. If
it is intended to be erected into a principle, there is danger
in it. It is certainly facile and comprehensive. What
burden can be put upon industry or the activities of men
that may not be justified by it?
Of course, there will be no production unless all of its
costs be reimbursed by the price of the articles produced.
And by costs I mean as well the burdens of government
as profit to the employer-his inducement to enterprise,
and the wages of employees-their inducement to labor.
Without such reimbursement there will be no productionand cannot be beyond a certain extent and for a certain
time; and there is no way to effect it but through the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MOIREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

suming public. But recourse to such consumption as a
rescue from the law is not a justification for the law, and
it is very doubtful if it had any conscious influence in the
enactment of the law.
Indeed, in the present case what could have been its
influence and to what extent can it have an ameliorating
effect? An employer in the indicated industries can have
no relief except in the home market. If his products
(where there are products) go beyond-go to other States
-they will meet the competition of unburdened products.
But this is obvious and needs no comment.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concur in this
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

DEvANTER

and

dissent.

dissenting.

While I earnestly join in the dissent written by Mr. Justice McKenna, it seems not inappropriate to state my
own views somewhat more fully. The important and
underlying question is common to the five cases. Number
232 is typical and to detail certain facts and circumstances
disclosed by the record therein may aid the discussion.
Basing his claim upon the Arizona Employers' Liability
Law, Dan Veazey sued plaintiff in error in the United
States District Court to recover damages for personal
injuries received by him February 10, 1916, while engaged
as millwright and carpenter in constructing a "'flotation
system" at the company's mill or reduction works in
Gila County, Arizona "wherein steam, electricity and
other mechanical power was then and there used to operate
machinery." He alleged that while exercising due care
he "suffered severe personal and bodily injuries by an
accident arising out of and in course of such labor, service
and employment, and due to a condition or conditions
of such occupation or employment," which injuries were

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

McREYNOLDS,

441

J., dissenting.

not caused by his negligence but were sustained in the
manner following: "Plaintiff in the due course of his said
labor, service and employment was standing upon a
certain timber or joist incorporated in said 'flotation
system' engaged in bolting and fastening together the
timbers thereof. That the said timber or joist upon which
plaintiff was then and there standing was then and there
elevated above the ground or floor of said mill or reduction
works a distance of approximately ten feet. That while
so engaged as aforesaid, plaintiff slipped from said timber
or joist and fell to the ground . .
with great force
and violence . . . ," was permanently injured and

will forever remain sick, sore, lame and crippled.
No charge of negligence or failure to perform any duty
was made against the company. It unsuccessfully set up
and relied upon invalidity of the Employers' Liability
Law because in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment;
judgment went against it; and the cause is here by writ
of error to the trial court (Jud. Code, ยง 237).
Article XVIII of the Arizona Constitution provides:
"Section 4. The common law doctrine of fellow servants, so far as it affects the liability of a master for injuries to his servants resulting from the acts or omissions
of any other servant or servants of the common master
is forever abrogated.
"Section 5. The defense of contributory negligence or
of assumption of risk shall, in all cases whatsoever, be a
question of fact and shall, at all times, be left to the jury.
"Section 6. The right of action to recover damages for
injuries shall never be abrogated, and the amount recovered shall not be subject to any statutory limitation.
"Section 7. To protect the safety of employees in all
hazardous occupations, in mining, smelting, manufacturing, railroad or street railway transportation, or any
other industry the Legislature shall enact an Employer's
Liability law, by the terms of which any employer,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

whether individual, association, or corporation shall be
liable for the death or injury, caused by any accident due
to a condition or conditions of such occupation, of any
employee in the service of such employer in such hazardous
occupation, in all cases in which such death or injury of
such employee shall not have been caused by the negligence of the employee killed or injured.
"Section 8. The Legislature shall enact a Workmen's
Compulsory Compensation law applicable to workmen
engaged in manual or mechanical labor in such employments as the Legislature may determine to be especially
dangerous, by which compulsory compensation shall be
required to be paid to any such workman by his employer,
if in the course of such employment personal injury to
any such workman from any accident arising out of, and
in the course of, such employment is caused in whole, or
in part, or is contributed to, by a necessary risk or danger
of such employment, or a necessary risk or danger inherent in the nature thereof, or by failure of such employer,
or any of his or its officers, agents, or employee, or employees, to exercise due care, or to comply with any [law]
affecting such employment; Provided, that it shall be
optional with said employee to settle for such compensation, or retain the right to sue said employer as provided
by the Constitution."
Obeying the constitutional mandate, the legislature
enacted the "Employers' Liability Law," approved
May 24, 1912, (c. 89, Laws of Ariz., 1912, p. 491; Rev.
Stats. Ariz., 1913, pars. 3153-3162) which provides:
That to protect the safety of workmen at manual or
mechanical labor in many occupations declared hazardous
and enumerated in ยง 4-among them all work in or about
mines and in mills, shops, plants and factories where
steam or electricity is used to operate machinery-every
employer, whether individual, association or corporation
"shall be liable for the death or injury, caused by any

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

443

CIREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

accident due to a condition or conditions of such occupation, of any employee in the service of such employer in
such hazardous occupation, in all cases in which such
death or injury of such employee shall not have been
caused by the negligence of the employee killed or injured."
"Sec. 6. When in the course of work in any of the employments or occupations enumerated in Sec. 4 of this Act,
personal injury or death by any accident arising out of
and in the course of such labor, service and employment,
and due to a condition or conditions of such occupation
or employment, is caused to or suffered by any workman
engaged therein, in all cases inwhich such injury or death
of such employee shall not have been caused by the
negligence of the employee killed or injured, then the employer of such employee shall be liable in damages to [the]
employee injured, or, in case death ensues, to the personal
representative of the deceased for the benefit of the surviving widow or husband and children of such employee;
and, if none, then to such employee's parents; and, if
none, then to the next of kin dependent upon such employee, and if none, then to his personal representative,
for the benefit of the estate of the deceased." Section 7
requires that questions of contributory negligence and
assumption of risk shall be left to the jury. (The full
text of the act is in the margin. 1 )
'Laws of Arizona, 1912, Chap. 89, p. 491; Rev. Stats., Ariz. Civil
Code, 1913, pars. 3153-3162, p. 1051.
"Sec. 1. That this Act is and shall be declared to be an Employer's
Liability law as prescribed in See. 7 of Article XVIII of the State
Constitution.
"See. 2. That to protect the safety of employees in all hazardous
occupations in mining, smelting, manufacturing, railroad, or street
railway, transportation, or any other industry, as provided in said
See. 7 of Article XVIII of the State Constitution, any employer,
whether individual, association, or corporation, shall be liable for the
death or injury, caused by any accident due to a condition or conditions of such occupation, of any employee in the service of such em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

Likewise, the legislature enacted a Compulsory Compensation Law, approved June 8, 1912, applicable to workployer in such hazardous occupation, in all cases in which such death
or injury of such employee shall not have been caused by the negligence of the employee killed or injured.
"See. 3. The labor and services of workmen at manual and mechanical labor, in the employment of any person, firm, association, company, or corporation, in the occupations enumerated in See. 4 of this
Act are hereby declared and determined to be service in a hazardous
occupation within the meaning of the terms of See. 2 of this Act.
"By reason of the nature and conditions of, and the means used and
provided for doing the work in, said occupations, such service is especially dangerous and hazardous to the workmen therein, because of
risks and hazards which are inherent in such occupations and which
are unavoidable by the workmen therein.
"Sec. 4. The occupations hereby declared and determined to be
hazardous within the meaning of this Act are as follows:
"1. The operation of steam railroads, electrical railroads, street railroads, by locomotives, engines, trains, motors, or cars of any kind propelled by steam, electricity, cable or other mechanical power, including
the construction, use or repair of machinery, plant, tracks, switches,
bridges, roadbeds, upon, over, and by which such railway business
is operated.
"2. All work when making, using or necessitating dangerous proximity to gunpowder, blasting powder, dynamite, compressed air, or
any other explosive.
"3. The erection or demolition of any bridge, building or structure
in which there is, or in which the plans and specifications require, iron
or steel frame work.
"4. The operation of all elevators, elevating machines or derricks
or hoisting apparatus used within or on the outside of any bridge,
building or other structure for conveying materials in connection with
the erection or demolition of such bridge, building or structure.
"5. All work on ladders or scaffolds of any kind elevated twenty
(20) feet or more above the ground or floor beneath in the erection,
construction, repair, painting or alteration of any building, bridge,
structure or other work in which the same are used.
"6. All work of construction, operation, alteration or repair where
wires, cables, switchboards, or other apparatus or machinery are in
use charged with electrical current.
"7. All work in the construction, alteration, or repair of pole lines
for telegraph, telephone or other purposes.

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

MCREYNOLDS,

445

J., dissenting.

men in the same occupations as those declared hazardous

by the Employers' Liability Law (c. 14, Laws of Ariz.,
"8. All work in or about quarries, open pits, open cuts, mines, ore

reduction works and smelters.
"9. All work in the construction and repair of tunnels, sub-ways
and viaducts.
"10. All work in mills, shops, works, yards, plants and factories
where steam, electricity, or any other mechanical power is used to
operate machinery and appliances in and about such premises.
"See. 5. Every employer, whether individual, firm, association,
company or corporation, employing workmen in such occupation, of
itself or through an agent, shall by rules, regulations, or instructions,
inform all employees in such occupations as to the duties and restrictions of their employment, to the end of protecting the safety of employees in such employment.
"See. 6. When in the course of work in any of the employments or
occupations enumerated in Sec. 4 of this Act, personal injury or death
by any accident arising out of and in the course of such labor, service
and employment, and due to a condition or conditions of such occupation or employment, is caused to or suffered by any workman engaged
therein, in all cases in which such injury or death of such employee
shall not have been caused by the negligence of the employee killed
or injured, then the employer of such employee shall be liable in damages to employee injured, or, in case death ensues, to the personal
representative of the deceased for the benefit of the surviving widow
or husband and children of such employee; and, if none, then to such
employee's parents; and, if none, then to the next of kin dependent
upon such employee, and if none, then to his personal representative for
the benefit of the estate of the deceased.
"Sec. 7. In all actions hereafter brought against any such employer
under or by virtue of any of the provisions of this Act to recover damages for personal injuries to any employee, or where such injuries have
resulted in his death, the question whether the employee may have
been guilty of contributory negligence, or has assumed the risk, shall
be a question of fact and shall at all times be left to the jury, as provided in Sec. 5 of Article XVIII of the State Constitution.
"See. 8. That any contract, rule, regulation, or device whatsoever,
the purpose or intent of which shall be to enable any employer to
exempt himself or itself from any liability created by this Act, shall
to that extent be void; provided, that in any action brought against
any such employer under or by virtue of any of the provisions of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

Spec. Sess. 1912, p. 23).
margin. 1

250 U. S.

Material portions of it are in the

Act, such employer may set off therein any sum it has contributed or
paid to any insurance, relief benefit, or indemnity or that [it] may have
paid to the injured employee or his personal representative on account of the injury or death for which said action was brought.
"See. 9. In all actions for damages brought under the provisions of
this Act, if the plaintiff be successful in obtaining judgment; and if the
defendant appeals to a higher court; and if the plaintiff in the lower
court be again successful; and the judgment of the lower court is sustained by the higher court or courts; then, and in that event the plaintiff shall have added to the amount of such judgment by such higher
court or courts, interest at the rate of 12 per cent. per annum on the
amount of such judgment from the date of the filing of the suit in the
first instance until the full amount of such judgment is paid.
"See. 10. No action shall be maintained under this Act unless
commenced within two years from the day the cause of action accrued.
"See. 11. All Acts and parts of Acts in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
"WHEREAS, the State Constitution commands the enactment of
an Employers' Liability law by the Legislature at its first session; and
"WHEREAS, this Act being said Employers' Liability law is immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health and
safety, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this Act shall be
in full force, and effect from and after its passage and its approval by
the Governor, and is hereby exempt from the operation of the Referendum provision of the State Constitution."
1 Workmen's Compulsory Compensation Law.
Sec. 2. That compensation graduated according to average earnings
and limited to $4,000.00, "shall be paid by his employer to any workman engaged in any employment declared and determined .
to be especially dangerous, whether said employer be a person, firm,
association, company, or corporation, if in the course of the employment of said employee personal injury thereto from any accident
arising out of, and in the course of, such employment is caused in whole,
or in part, or is contributed to, by a necessary risk or danger of such
employment, or a necessary risk or danger inherent in the nature
thereof, or by failure of such employer, or any of his or its officers,
agents, or employee or employees, to exercise due care, or to comply
with any law affecting such employment."
"See. 4. In case such employee or his personal representative shall

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

447

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

In ConsolidatedArizona Smelting Co. v. Ujack, (1914) 15
Arizona, 382, 384, the Supreme Court declared:-" Under
the laws of Arizona, an employee who is injured in the
course of his employment has open to him three avenues
of redress, any one of which he may pursue according to
the facts of his case. They are: (1) The common-law
liability relieved of the fellow-servant defense and in
which the defenses of contributory negligence and assumption of risk are questions to be left to the jury. Const.,
sees. 4, 5, art. 18. (2) Employers' liability law, which
applies to hazardous occupations where the injury or
death is not caused by his own negligence. Const., sec. 7,
art. 18. (3) The compulsory compensation law, applicable
to especially dangerous occupations, by which he may recover compensation without fault upon the part of the
employer. Const., sec. 8, art. 18."

In Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co. v. Mendez,
(July 2, 1917) 19 Arizona, 151, 154, 157, 161, the Supreme
Court specifically held that the Employers' Liability Law
does not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, and,
among other things, said :-" That the liability statute must
refuse to settle for such compensation (as provided in Sec. 8 of Article
XVIII of the State Constitution) and chooses to retain the right to
sue said employer (as provided in any law provided for in See. 7,
Article XVIII of the State Constitution) he may so refuse to settle and
may retain said right." "See. 6. The common law doctrine of no
liability without fault is hereby declared and determined to be abrogated in Arizona as far as it shall be sought to be applied to the accidents hereinbefore mentioned." "See. 14. . . . Provided, if,
after the accident, either the employer or the workman shall refuse to
make or accept compensation under this Act or to proceed under or
rely upon the provisions hereof for relief, then the other may pursue
his remedy or make his defense under other existing statutes, the State
Constitution, or the common law, except as herein provided, as his
rights may at the time exist. Any suit brought by the workman for
a recovery shall be held as an election to pursue such remedy exclusively."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

be construed as one creating a liability for accidents resulting in injuries to the workmen engaged in hazardous
occupations due to the risks and hazards inherent in such
occupations, without regard to the negligence of the employer, as such negligence is understood in the common
law of liability; in other words, such statute creates a
liability for accident arising from the risks and hazards
inherent in the occupation without regard to the negligence
or fault of the employer.

.

.

.

In other words, this

statute creates a liability of the master to damages suffered
from any accident befalling his servant while engaged in
the performance of duties in dangerous occupations
without requiring the negligence of the master to be shown
as an element of the right to recover; and it likewise takes
away from the master his common-law right of defense
of assumption of ordinary risk by the servant, and leaves
to the master the right to defend upon the grounds that
the servant assumed the ordinary risks other than risks
inherent in the occupation." This opinion was reaffirmed
in Superior & Pittsburg Copper Co. v. Tomich, (July 2,
1917) 19 Arizona, 182.
In Arizona Copper Co. v. Burciaga, (1918) 177 Pac. Rep.
29, 31, 32, 33, the Supreme Court said:-"As clearly intimated by this court in Inspiration Consolidated Copper
Co. v. Mendez, 19 Arizona, 151; 166 Pac. 278, 1183, the
Employers' Liability Law is designed to give a right of action to the employee injured by accident occurring from
risks and hazards inherent in the occupation and without regard to the negligence on the part of the employer.
Such is the clear import of the said Employers' Liability
Law.

...

"The liability incurred by the employer from a personal
injury sustained by his employee from an accident arising out of and in the course of labor, service, and employment in hazardous occupations specified in the statute,
and due to a condition or conditions of such occupation

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

449

McREYN OLDS, J., dissenting.

or employment, if such shall not have been caused from
the negligence of such employee, is such an amount as
will compensate such employee for the injuries sustained by
him directly attributable to such accident.

.

.

.

'Lia-

ble in damages,' as used in paragraph 3158, c. 6, of title
14, Employers' Liability Law, Rev. Stat. of Ariz. 1913, has
reference to and means that the employer becomes obligated to pay to the employee injured in an accident while
engaged in an occupation declared hazardous, occurring
without fault of the employer, all loss to the employee
which is actually caused by the accident and the amount of
which is susceptible of ascertainment.

.

.

Of course,

mental and physical suffering experienced by the employee
injured, proximately resulting from the accident, the
reasonable value of working time lost by the employee,
necessary expenditures for the treatment of injuries and
compensation for the employee's diminished earning power
directly resulting from the injury, and perhaps other results causing direct loss, are matters of actual loss and as
such recoverable."
From the foregoing it appears that we have for consideration a statute which undertakes, in the absence of fault,
to impose upon all employers (individual and corporate)
engaged in enterprises essential to the public welfare, not
subject to prohibition by the State and often not attended
by any extraordinary hazard, an unlimited liability to
employees for damages resulting from accidental injuries-including physical and mental pain-which may
be recovered by the injured party or his administrator
for benefit of widow, children, parents, next of dependent
kin or the estate. The individual who hires only one man
and works by his side is put on the same footing as a corporation which employs thousands; no attention is given
to probable ability to pay the award; length of service
is unimportant-a minute seems enough; wages contracted
for bear no necessary relationship to what may be re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

covered; and a single accident which he was powerless
to prevent or provide against may pauperize the employer.
And by reason of existing constitutional and statutory
provisions an injured workman may claim under this
act or under the Compensation Law or according to the
common law materially modified in his favor by exclusion
of the fellow-servant rule and otherwise. On the other
hand, while the employer is declared subject to new, uncertain and greatly enlarged liability, notwithstanding
the utmost care, nothing has been granted him in return.
In such circumstances, would enforcement of the challenged statute deprive employers of rights protected by
the Fourteenth Amendment? Plainly, I think, nothing
short of an affirmative answer is compatible with welldefined constitutional guarantees.
Of course the Fourteenth Amendment was never intended to render immutable any particular rule of law
nor did it by fixation immortalize prevailing doctrines
concerning legal rights and liabilities. Orderly and rational progress was not forestalled. Holden v. Hardy, 169
U. S. 366, 387. But it did strip the States of all power to
deprive any person of life, liberty or property by arbitrary or oppressive action-such action is never due
process of law.
In the last analysis it is for us to determine what is arbitrary or oppressive upon consideration of the natural
and inherent principles of practical justice which lie at the
base of our traditional jurisprudence and inspirit our
Constitution. A legislative declaration of reasonableness is not conclusive; no more so is popular approvalotherwise constitutional inhibitions would be futile. And
plainly, I think, the individual's fundamental rights are
not proper subjects for experimentation; they ought not
to be sacrificed to questionable theorization.
Until now I had supposed that a man's liberty and
property--with their essential incidents-were under the

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

451

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

protection of our charter and not subordinate to whims or
caprices or fanciful ideas of those who happen for the day
to constitute the legislative majority. The contrary doctrine is revolutionary and leads straight towards destruction of our well-tried and successful system of government.
Perhaps another system may be better-I do not happen to
think so-but it is the duty of the courts to uphold the old
one unless and until superseded through orderly methods.
After great consideration in Adair v. United States, 208
U. S. 161, and Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, this court
declared that the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees to
both employer and employee the liberty of entering into
contracts for service subject only to reasonable restrictions. "The principle is fundamental and vital."
In the first case an act of Congress prohibiting interstate carriers from requiring one seeking employment, as
a condition of such employment, to enter into an agreement not to become or remain a member of a labor organization was declared in conflict with the Fifth Amendment.
In Coppage v. Kansas a state statute which declared it
unlawful to require one to agree not to be a member of
a labor association as a condition of securing employment
was held invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment and
we said: "An interference with this liberty so serious as
that now under consideration, and so disturbing of equality of right, must be deemed to be arbitrary, unless it be
supportable as a reasonable exercise of the police power of
the State." In Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 41, an Arizona statute prohibiting employment of aliens except
under certain conditions was struck down. We there
said: "It requires no argument to show that the right to
work for a living in the common occupations of the community is of the very essence of the personal freedom and
opportunity that it was the purpose of the [Fourteenth]
Amendment to secure."
The right to employ and the right to labor are correl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

ative-neither can be destroyed nor unduly hindered
without impairing the other. The restrictions imposed
by the act of Congress, struck down in the Adair Case, by
the Kansas statute, declared invalid in the Coppage Case,
and by the Arizona statute, held inoperative in the Truax
Case, viewed as practical matters seem rather trivial in
comparison with the burden laid on employers by the
statute before us. And the grounds suggested to support
it really amount in substance to asserting that the legislature has power to protect society against the consequences
of accidental injuries and, therefore, it may impose the
loss resulting therefrom upon those wholly without fault
who have afforded others welcomed opportunities to earn
an honest living under unobjectionable conditions. As
a measure to stifle enterprise, produce discontent, strife,
idleness and pauperism the outlook for the enactment
seems much too good.
In New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, and Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 188, 219, as I had
supposed for reasons definitely pointed out, we held the
challenged statutes not in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment although they imposed liability without
fault and introduced a plan for compensating workmen,
unknown to the common law. The elements of those
statutes regarded as adequate to save their validity we
specified; if such characteristics had not been found, the
result, necessarily, would have been otherwise unless we
were merely indulging in harmful chatter.
Here, without fault, the statute in question imposes
liability in some aspects more onerous than either the
New York or Washington law prescribed; and the grounds
upon which we sustained those statutes are wholly lacking.
The employer is not exempted from any liability formerly
imposed; he is given no quid pro quo for his new burdens;
the common-law rules have been set aside without a
reasonably just substitute; the employee is relieved from

ARIZONA EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY CASES.
400.

MCREYNOLDS,

453

J., dissenting.

consequences of ordinary risks of the occupation and these
are imposed upon the employer without defined limit to
possible recovery which may ultimately go to nondependents, distant relatives, or, by escheat, to the State;
"the act bears no fair indication of a just settlement of a
difficult problem affecting one of the most important of
social relations "-on the contrary it will probably intensify the difficulties.
The liability is not restricted to the pecuniary loss of a
disabled employee or those entitled to look to him for support, but includes compensation for physical and mental
pain and suffering; a recovery resulting in bankruptcy to
an employer may benefit only a distant relative, financially
independent; the prescribed responsibility is not "to
contribute reasonable amounts according to a reasonable
and definite scale by way of compensation for the loss of
earning power arising from accidental injuries," but is
unlimited, unavoidable by any care, incapable of fairly
definite estimation in advance and enforceable by litigation probably acrimonious, long drawn out and expensive.
While the statute is inattentive to the employer's fault it
permits recovery in excess of the employee's pecuniary
misfortune; and provides for compensation, not general,
but sporadic, uncertain, conjectural, delayed, indefinite as
to amount and not distributed over such long period as
to afford actual protection against loss or lessened earning
capacity with insurance to society against pauperism, etc.
I am unable to see any rational basis for saying that
the act is a proper exercise of the State's police power.
It is unreasonable and oppressive upon both employer and
employee; to permit its enforcement will impair fundamental rights solemnly guaranteed by our Constitution
and heretofore, as I think, respected and enforced.
JUSTICE MCKENNA
VAN DEVANTER concur in this opinion.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
M

. JUSTICE

MR.

and

