BARRETT v. VIRGINIAN RY. CO.
Syllabus.

465.

The delivery having been completed and accepted by
the consignee, the five-day limitation, so unreasonable
in itself that it has been prohibited by congressional enactment (38 Stat. 1196, c. 176, ยง 1) has, in my judgment,
no applicability to this case, and to bottom tbe conclusion announced upon the definition of "transportation"
_n the Hepburn Act is to convert what was intended for
the protection of shippers of property in interstate commerce into an instrument of injury and injustice.
For the reasons thus stated I dissent from the opinion
and judgment of the court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

concur in this dissent.

MR. JUSTICE DAY also dissents.

BARRETT v. VIRGINIAN RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 275.

Submitted March 21, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

The right to take a voluntary nonsuit is substantial, and when and
how it may be asserted are questions relating directly to practice
and mode of proceeding within the intendment of the Conformity
Act. P. 476.
Under the law of Virginia, in the absence of a demurrer to the evidence
and joinder therein, the plaintiff may take a nonsuit at any time
before the retirement of the jury. P. 477.
A motion by defendant for a directed verdict at the conclusion of the
testimony, when made in a federal court in Virginia, is not equivalent
to a demurrer to the evidence, and the making of such a motion and
its impending allowance do not place the plaintiff's right to take a
nonsuit at the sound discretion of the court. Id.
244 Fed. Rep. 397, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

TEm case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. L. Welborn for petitioner. Mr. John C. Jamison
and Mr. John G. Chatlice were on the brief.

Mr. G. A. Wingfield and Mr. H. T. Hall for respondent.
Mr. W. H. T. Loyall was on the brief.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Claiming under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
(April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65) petitioner sued the
Virginian Railway Company in the United States District Court, Western District of Virginia, for damages on
account of personal injuries suffered by him July 27, 1915.
At conclusion of the testimony the railway company
moved for a directed verdict; after consideration the trial
judge read to counsel an opinion giving reasons and
announced his purpose to grant the motion. "And thereupon the plaintiff, by counsel, moved the court to be permitted to take a voluntary nonsuit; which motion was
opposed by counsel for defendant. And as the court is of
opinion that the motion comes too late, it is overruled;
and to this action of the court the plaintiff, by counsel,
excepted. And thereupon the court directed the jury to
find a verdict for the defendant; and to this action of the
court the plaintiff, by counsel, excepted. And thereupon
the jury rendered and returned the following verdict:
'We, the jury, by direction of the court, find for the defendant."' Judgment thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 244 Fed. Rep. 397. Petitioner
there urged that the trial court erred (1) in directing a
verdict for the defendant, and (2) in denying the plaintiff's request to take a voluntary nonsuit. Both claims
were denied and are renewed here.

BARRETT v. VIRGINIAN RY. CO.
473.

Opinion of the Court.

We think refusal to permit the requested nonsuit was
error and for that reason the judgment below must be
reversed. This makes it unnecessary to consider the other
point.
The Act of June 1, 1872,-The Conformity Act-(Rev.
Stats., ยง 914; c. 255, ยง 5, 17 Stat. 197) provides: "The
practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding
in civil causes, other than equity and admiralty causes,
in the circuit and district courts, shall conform, as near
as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes
of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the
courts of record of the State within which such circuit or
district courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary
notwithstanding."
Construing the statute in Nudd v. Burrows (1875),
91 U. S.426, 441, 442, this court said: "The purpose of
the provision is apparent upon its face. No analysis is
necessary to reach it. It was to bring about uniformity
in the law of procedure in the Federal and State courts
of the same locality. It had its origin in the codeenactments of many of the States. While in the Federal
tribunals the common-law pleadings, forms, and practice were adhered to, in the State courts of the same district the simpler forms of the local code prevailed. This
involved the necessity on the part of the bar of studying
two distinct systems of remedial law, and of practicing
according to the wholly dissimilar requirements of both.
The inconvenience of such a state of things is obvious.
The evil was a serious one. It was the aim of the provision in question to remove it. This was done by bringing
about the conformity in the courts of the United States
which it prescribes. The remedy was complete. The personal administration by the judge of his duties while
sitting upon the bench was not complained of. .
The personal conduct and administration of the judge in
the discharge of his separate functions, is, in our judgment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

neither practice, pleading, nor aform nor mode of proceeding
within the meaning of those terms as found in the context." See also Indianapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v.
Horst, 93 U. S.291, 300.
"It is now a settled rule in the courts of the United
States that whenever, in the trial of a civil case, it is clear
that the state of the evidence is such as not to warrant a
verdict for a party, and that if such a verdict were rendered the other party would be entitled to a new trial,
it is the right and duty of the judge to direct the jury to
find according to the views of the court. Such is the constant practice, and it is a convenient one. It saves time
and expense. - It gives scientific certainty to the law in its
application to the facts and promotes the ends of justice."
Bowditch v. Boston, 101 U. S.16, 18; Pleasantsv. Fant, 22
Wall. 116, 122; Oscanyan v. Arms Company, 103 U. S.261,
265; Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 109 U. S.478,
482; District of Columbia v. Moulton, 182 U. S.576, 582;
Hepner v. United States, 213 U. S.103, 113. And this rule
is not subject to modification by state statutes or constitutions. Indianapolis& St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Horst, supra;
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. v. Vickers, 122
U. S.360, 363; Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S.436, 442.
At the common law, as generally understood and applied, a nonsuit could be taken freely at any time before
verdict if not indeed before judgment. Confiscation Cases,
7 Wall. 454, 457; Derick v. Taylor, 171 Massachusetts,
444, 445; Bac. Abr. Nonsuit (D). And see Pleasants v.
Fant, supra, 122. The right is substantial. When and
how it may be asserted we think are questions relating
directly to practice and mode of proceeding within intendment of the Conformity Act.
Section 3387, Virginia Code (1904), provides: "A party
shall not be allowed to suffer a non-suit, unless he do so
before the jury retire from the bar." Prior to this provision, a plaintiff there had the absolute right to take a

BARRETT v. VIRGINIAN RY. CO.
473.

Opinion of the Court.

voluntary nonsuit at any time before verdict. Harrison
v. Clemens, 112 Virginia, 371, 373. Chapter 27, Va.
Acts, 1912, directs "That in no action tried before a jury
shall the trial judge give to the jury a peremptory instruction directing what verdict the jury shall render." And
c. 42, Idem, provides: "In all suits or motions hereafter.
when the evidence is concluded before the court and
jury, the party tendering the demurrer to evidence shall
state in writing specifically the grounds of demurrer relied
on, and the demurree shall not be forced to join in the said
demurrer until the specific grounds upon which the demurrant relies are stated in writing; nor shall any grounds
of demurrer not thus specifically stated be considered,
except that the court may, in its discretion, allow the
demurrant to withdraw the demurrer; may allow the
joinder in demurrer to be withdrawn by the demurree, and
new evidence admitted, or a non-suit to be taken until the
jury retire from the bar."
Citing Parks v. Ross, 11 How. 362, 373, and Richardson
v. Boston, 19 How. 263, (see also Schuchardt v. Allens,
1 Wall. 359, 370), petitioner maintains that in the federal
courts the practice of directing verdicts has superseded
the demurrer to evidence and should be controlled by
the same general principles. Therefore, it is said, the
statutory rule which gives the judge discretion to allow or
refuse a nonsuit after joinder in such a demurrer applies
when there is a motion for directed verdict.
Obviously the laws of Virginia recognize a marked
distinction between demurrer to evidence and direction
of a verdict-the former is permitted, the latter is expressly prohibited. And the different nature and effect
of the two things has been pointed out in Oscanyan v.
Arms Company, supra, 264; Central TransportationCo. v.
Pullman's Palace Car Co., 139 U. S. 39; and Slocum v.
New York Life Insurance Co., 228 U. S. 364, 388. The
conclusion announced in Parks v. Southern Ry. Co., 143

OCTOBER TERM, 1018.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 276, 277, that because federal courts may in
proper cases direct verdicts, therefore, in the exercise of
sound discretion they may deny an application for leave
to take a nonsuit and direct verdict for defendant is not
well founded.
Under the Virginia statute, in the absence of a demurrer
to the evidence and joinder therein, the plaintiff may take
a nonsuit at any time before submission of the case to the
jury and their retirement. The Conformity Statute gives
the same right in federal courts. This conclusion accords
with opinions by the Circuit Courts of Appeals for the
Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Circuits. Knight v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 180 Fed. Rep. 368; Meyer v. National
Biscuit Co., 168 Fed. Rep. 906; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.
Co. v. Metalstaff, 101 Fed. Rep. 769.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court with direction to set
aside the judgment in favor of respondent and sustain
motion to enter a nonsuit. Knight v. Illinois Central R. R.
Co., supra, 374; Harrison v. Clemens, supra, 374, 375.
Reversed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. LEATHERWOOD.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, SECOND
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 249.

Submitted March 19, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

Under the Carmack Amendment, connecting carriers, by requiring a
shipper to sign new bills of lading for a shipment billed over their
lines by the initial carrier, are not estopped to avail themselves of
a provision of the original bill limiting the time for bringing actions

