BRAINERD &c. QUARRY CO. v. BRICE.
223.

Syllabus.

concerns the jurisdiction of the court. We are of opinion that there was enough alleged to properly invoke
jurisdiction, and that the charges of fraudulent transfers
of the rent notes, and of interests in real estate, were
sufficiently made to bring the action within the jurisdiction of the District Court under the provisions of the
Bankruptcy Act. In this view the judgment of the District Court dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction is
Reversed.

BRAINERD, SHALER & HALL QUARRY COMPANY

v. BRICE, AS SOLE SURVIVING EXECUTOR OF
VAN SCHAICK, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 431.

Submitted March 17, 1919.-Decided June 2,1919.

The allegations of the complaint determine the character of an action
for the purpose of testing the jurisdiction of the District Court to
entertain it. P. 231.
The life tenant of a fund, to secure the remaindermen, executed, with
surety, a bond running to them, their executors, administrators
and assigns, and conditioned for the preservation of the fund by him
and payment to them upon his death. One of them assigned part of
his remainder interest to a third person, who, after the death of the
life tenant, brought an action on the bond against the life tenant's
executor and the surety jointly, to recover in the amount of the assigned remainder interest. Held, that the assignment of the remainder interest carried with it pro tanto the obligation of the bond;
and that the action was one prosecuted by an assignee to recover
on a chose in action, not cognizable by the District Court, where
the assignor and the defendants were citizens of the same State.
Jud. Code, ยง 24. P. 233. Brown v. Fletcher, 235 U. S. 589, distinguished.
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edwin D. Worcester for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Bronson Winthrop for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Quarry Company brought an action at law in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York to recover $20,000 and interest
from Wilson B. Brice as executor of Henry Van Schaick,
deceased, and the American Surety Company. Answers
were filed and the case was at issue, and came on for trial,
when, upon motion of the defendants, the action was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The only question here
concerns the correctness of this ruling of the District
Court. The ground of the dismissal is thus stated in the
record:
"In this cause, I hereby certify that this writ of error is
allowed solely, and that the order herein dismissing the
complaint was based solely, on the ground that no jurisdiction of the District Court existed; that this question
has been determined by me on the following grounds:
"This action is brought on a surety bond made by one
Henry Van Schaick (since deceased) as principal, and the
defendant The American Surety Company of New York,
as surety, for the purpose of securing the due payment,
at Henry Van Schaick's death, of the remainder-interests
in a certain fund of money held by Henry Van Schaick as
life tenant; that one Eugene Van Schaick (since deceased)
was at the time of the assignment below mentioned the
owner of one of the remainder-interests secured by said
bond; that Eugene Van Schaick, during the continuance
of the life-estate, assigned to the plaintiff a portion of his
said remainder-interest, and thereafter survived the said

BRAINERD &c. QUARRY CO. v. BRICE.
229.

Opinion of the Court.

Henry Van Schaick, and this action is based on such assignment; that Eugene Van Schaick was in his life time a
citizen and resident of the State of New York and both
of the defendants are citizens and residents of the State
of New York; that this suit could not have been prosecuted
in this Court upon said remainder-interest and said bond
if no such assignment had been made."
Section 24 of the Judicial Code, among other things,
provides:
"No district court shall have cognizance of any suit
(except upon foreign bills of exchange) to recover upon
any promissory note or other chose in action in favor of
any assignee, or of any subsequent holder if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such
court to recover upon said note or other chose in action if
no assignment had been made."
To determine the character of the action for the purposes of jurisdiction recourse must be had to the allegations of the complaint. They are quite voluminous, but
for our purposes may be summed up as stating: The
plaintiff is a corporation of the State of Connecticut, the
defendant, the American Surety Company, is a corporation of the State of New York. The defendant, Wilson
B. Brice, is a resident and citizen of the State of New York.
(It was conceded for the purposes of the motion that
Eugene Van Schaick was a citizen of New York.) Jane
C. Van Schaick died May 20, 1893, seized of certain real
estate in the State of New York. By her last will and
testament she gave one-half of her real estate to Henry
Van Schaick of New York during his life, with remainder
to his descendants who should be living at the time of his
decease and living also at the time of the testatrix' decease,
if she should survive him. The will was duly probated
on June 28, 1893. Henry Van Schaick survived the testatrix, and had living children, one of whom was Eugene

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Van Schaick. The complaint then recites certain conveyances, and the prosecution of a partition suit, the decree in which was, by order of the court, considered upon
the motion to dismiss. In that suit it was adjudged that
Henry Van Schaick had an estate as tenant for life in
one-half of the said real estate, that among others Sarah
Van Schaick, wife of Eugene Van Schaick, had an estate in
remainder in the land to commence in possession upon the
death of Henry Van Schaick. It being found that the
land could not be divided, it was ordered sold. The sale
for $134,369.74 is recited. One-half of the proceeds
$67,184.87, was found to belong to Henry Van Schaick
for life, at his death to vest in such descendants of Henry
Van Schaick as should be then living, or in such persons
as should then be the legal owners of said shares. The decree provided that the fund might be paid to Henry Van
Schaick upon his giving security to the remaindermen, and
provision was made for giving the bond now sued upon.
Henry Van Schaick as principal and the American Surety
Company then executed the bond in the sum of $75,000.
The obligees of the bond were the descendants of Henry
Van Schaick living at the time of his death, the amount
to be paid to them, their executors, administrators or
assigns. The condition of the bond was that Henry Van
Schaick during his lifetime should safely keep and preserve said principal sum, and the same should be paid over
to his descendants as provided in the decree. Eugene
Van Schaick acquired the interest which had been assigned
to his wife. On May 9,1901, Eugene Van Schaick assigned
to the Quarry Company the sum of $20,000, to be paid
out of his remainder interest. Henry Van Schaick died
on November 15, 1914, leaving Eugene Van Schaick and
others surviving him. Eugene Van Schaick died on January 27, 1916. Henry Van Schaick did not keep and preserve the principal of said $67,184.87, the same was not
paid as provided in the decree, but was lost by said Henry

BRAINERD &c. QUARRY CO. v. BRICE.
229.

Opinion of the Court.

Van Schaick. The complaint avers demand of the $20,000
and interest, and prays judgment against the defendants.
The action thus appears to have been brought upon
the assignment of Eugene Van Schaick, a citizen of New
York, to the plaintiff, a corporation of Connecticut,
against defendants, who were residents and citizens of
New York. Eugene Van Schaick could not have maintained the suit in the federal court, being himself a citizen
and resident of New York. This suit was an action at law
upon the bond. It was against both the executor and
the surety company. The surety company was liable at
law only upon the bond. The complaint, fairly considered,
shows that such was the real nature of the suit. It contained but a single cause of action, and prayed for joint
judgment against the executor of Henry Van Schaick
and the surety company. Henry Van Schaick was liable
to Eugene Van Schaick upon the bond. Eugene Van
Schaick assigned that obligation to the plaintiff to the
extent of $20,000. That assignment carried with it the
obligation of the surety company given to secure the
faithful performance of the duty required of Henry Van
Schaick. George v. Tate, 102 U. S. 564, 571.
The defenses, if any, of the surety company against the
claim in the hands of Eugene Van Schaick could have been
urged against the plaintiff. We think the plaintiff was
an assignee within the meaning of ยง 24, without formal
assignment of the bond. Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124 U. S.
730; Plant Investment Co. v. Jacksonville, Tampa & Key
West Ry. Co., 152 U. S. 71.
Brown v. Fletcher, 235 U. S. 589, is an entirely different
suit from the one now under consideration. In that action
there was an assignment of an interest in a trust estate
by the beneficiary, who was a resident and citizen of New
York, to the complainants who were residents and citizens
of Pennsylvania, and suit was brought in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

New York, the defendants being residents and citizens of
New York. It was held that the suit to recover this interest in a trust estate was not a suit by an assignee within the
meaning of ยง 24 of the Judicial Code. That suit, this court
held, was not a suit upon a chose in action, but was one
to recover upon the conveyance of an alienable interest
acquired from the owner in a trust estate. Such interests
might be sued for in the federal courts when the requisite
amount and diversity of citizenship exist. 235 U. S. 598,
599. But here the case is different; the suit was upon the
bond, the right to recover arising from the assignment of
the interest of Eugene Van Schaick in the fund in the hands
of Henry Van Schaick. It was not a suit to recover the
interest of Eugene Van Schaick in the estate because of
the wrongful conversion thereof by Henry Van Schaick.
To such a suit the surety company would not be a proper
party. It was, as we have stated, an action upon a single
cause of action against the executor of the principal and
the surety upon the contract evidenced by the bond. The
right to such action was derived by assignment from
Eugene Van Schaick, a citizen and resident of New York,
and, as he could not have sued in the federal court, his
assignee, the plaintiff, could not by reason of ยง 24 of the
Judicial Code.
Affirmed.

