OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

character of the goods, not attributable to fraud, merely
imposed upon the shipper or consignee an obligation to
pay freight charges according to the character of the goods
actually shipped, and did not affect the liability of the
carrier for a failure to deliver the goods.
Judgment affirmed.

BROTHERS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 309. Argued March 28, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.
An unliquidated claim against the United States, under the Act of
June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, for the alleged infringement of
a patent is not assignable with the patent. Rev. Stats., ยง 3477.
P. 89.
The essential feature of patent No. 551,614, granted to Sarah E.
Brothers et al. for "improvements in cable cranes with gravity
anchors," is a non-yielding support or anchor at one end of the cable,
and a yielding, tilting, or rocking support at the opposite end, consisting of outwardly inclined shears or some equivalent structure
held movably at the base, and a counterweight on the outer side.
Id.
This patent was not infringed by the use of cableways supported
by two towers both of which were intended and constructed to be
rigid, but both of which, upon the tightening of the cables, done for
the purpose of enabling the loads to clear the work as its height increased, acquired a tendency to yield with the yielding of the railroad bed beneath them, under the increased stress. P. 93.
Findings of the Court of Claims are to be treated like the verdict of a
jury, and this court is not at liberty to refer to the evidence, any
more than to the opinion, for the purpose of eking out, controlling
or modifying their scope. Id.
52 Ct. Cims. 462, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

BROTHERS v. UNITED STATES.
88.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William F. Brothers pro se.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson,for the United
States, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellant brought this action in the Court of Claims
under the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, to
recover compensation for the unlicensed use by the
United States in the Panama Canal work of his patented
invention for "Improvements in cable cranes with gravity anchors." That court made findings of fact upon
which it concluded as matter of law that there was no
infringement of claimant's patent, and thereupon dismissed his petition. 52 Ct. Chns. 462.
From the findings it appears that claimant filed application for his patent July 18, 1895, and, upon such
application, letters patent No. 551,614 were granted and
issued, under date December 17, 1895, to his assignees
Sarah E. Brothers and Maria A. Brown, to whom he
had made assignment pending the application. Subsequently the letters patent were assigned to claimant,
under date October 2, 1912, two and one-half months
prior to their expiration by limitation on December 17,
1912. His claim to compensation is necessarily limited
to this brief period, since there could be no assignment
to him of any unliquidated claim against the Government arising prior to the time he became the owner of
the patent. Rev. Stats., ยง 3477.
No question is made but that plaintiff's invention was
broadly new, a pioneer in its line, and the patent entitled to a broad construction and the claims to a liberal
application of the doctrine of equivalents. (See Brothers
v. Lidgerwood Mfg. Co., 223 Fed. Rep. 359.) It relates
to the method of erecting and operating a suspension

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

cable adapted to carrying a traveling crane or the like.
Roughly speaking, the prior art consisted in supporting
such cables upon rigid and unyielding towers at each end,
so as to prevent an undue sagging of the cable under the
strain of its load. Claimant's invention consisted in
employing a rigid support or abutment at one end of
the cable and what is called a "gravity anchor" at the
opposite end, consisting of outwardly inclined shears
with the cable attached thereto and a weight hung permanently from the shears on the opposite side, which
weight, together with the weight of the shears, puts
a tension upon the cable varying according to the weight
of the structure and counterweight, combined with the
degree of inclination of the structure; the operation of
the tension device being automatically to take up the
slack of the suspended cable when the load approaches
the supports, with the result of permitting the load to
be moved closer to the supports, with a given exertion
of power, than before. There are other advantages not
necessary to be specified. The essential feature of the
patent is a non-yielding support or anchor at one end
of the cable, and a yielding, tilting, or rocking support at
the opposite end, consisting of outwardly inclined shears
or some equivalent structure held movably at the base,
and a counterweight on the outer side. It is to be observed that rigidity of the head tower is a sine qua non,
necessary to produce tension of the cable; yielding supports at both ends would be a contradiction of terms,
since with such an arrangement there would be no support, and the entire structure would collapse under its
own weight. The importance of this will appear.
In the construction of the Panama Canal the Government installed in the year 1909, and maintained and
used continuously thereafter until the expiration of the
Brothers patent, one single cableway and six duplex or
double cableways which are complained of in this case

BROTHERS v. UNITED STATES.
88.

Opinion of the Court.

as infringements. As to the mode of construction, maintenance, and operation of these cableways, the findings
of the Court of Claims are as follows:
"The single and the duplex cableways were similar in
general design and construction except that the towers
of the former supported a single cable, while those of
the latter supported two cables, parallel to each other,
at a distance of 18 feet apart, and each operated independently of the other, the length of the towers longitudinally of the canal cut being of proportionate dimension for the accommodation of the two cables. The
towers were of structural steel construction; and taking
the duplex cableways for illustration, each tower in vertical cross section from front to rear was in the shape of
a right-angle triangle, with a base of approximately
50 feet, a perpendicular or vertical height of about 85 feet,
and a hypothenuse of about 98 feet, with a length of
about 38 feet longitudinally of the canal. The two towers
of the cableway stood facing each other, on opposite banks
of the canal cut, with their hypothenuse faces toward
the cut. The cable span across the cut between the tops
of the towers was approximately 800 feet. The cables
used were 2 14 -inch steel-wire cables having a rated breaking stress of 200 tons. The cables were supported by
headblocks or saddles at the tops of the towers, and
their ends were carried down and firmly anchored to the
counterweighted bases of the towers.
"Rigidity of the towers was desired; and in order to
secure this and hold the towers rigid against any tendency to tip, tilt, or yield under the stress of the suspended
cables and their loads, the platform base at the rear side
of each tower-that is, the side farthest from the canal
cut-was counterweighted by a block of cement concrete
of over 150 tons weight, cast about the structural steel
members of the base of the tower and extending along
practically the entire length of the base. The entire

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

weight of each tower, including the tower proper, the
trucks upon which it was mounted, and the concrete
counterweight, was upward of 500 tons.
"To facilitate the shifting or moving of the cableways
along the canal cut as the work progressed each tower
was mounted upon sets of trucks, similar to the trucks
of railway cars, on the front and rear sides of the base
of the tower, and the whole structure was mounted upon
two standard-gauge railway tracks located on the bank
of the canal cut at the proper distance from each other
and from the similar tower tracks on the opposite bank
of the cut.
"The cableways were operated by electrical power
from the machinery stations in the head tower of each
cableway.
"Subsequent to the construction and installation of
said cableways they were maintained and operated without change in structural form or method of operation
other than that as the height of the walls and other work
of the canal increased, beginning about August, 1910,
it became necessary, in order to admit of the loads being
carried to pass clear of the works and men engaged thereon
as the height of the work increased, to take up the slack
or decrease the deflection of the cable. The cables were
accordingly drawn up for said purpose. This tightening
up of the cables or reduction of their deflection increased
the effect of the load and weight of the cables upon the
towers as regards their tendency to yield or tilt.
"It was the intent and purpose of the engineer officers
of the Canal Commission, by and under whom said cableways were designed, constructed, and operated, that the
towers thereof should be rigid and nonyielding to the full
extent that rigidity in cable towers was possible; and
there was no tilting or yielding of said towers other than
such as resulted from. a yielding of the roadbed of the
tracks supporting them, portions of which roadbed con-

BROTHERS v. UNITED STATES.

88.

Opinion of the Court.

sisted of 'fills' of excavated materials upon swampy
ground. There is no satisfactory evidence that the towers
either yielded or tilted at any time during the period of
claimant's ownership of said letters patent."
Upon the argument here, appellant quoted somewhat
amply from the evidence taken before the Court of Claims.
For the purposes of our review the findings of that court
are to be treated like the verdict of a jury, and we are
not at liberty to refer to the evidence, any more than to
the opinion, for the purpose of eking out, controlling,
or modifying their scope. United States v. Smith, 94 U. S.
214, 218; Stone v. United States, 164 U. S. 380, 382; District of Columbia v. Barnes, 197 U. S. 146, 150; Crocker v.
United States, 240 U. S. 74, 78, and cases cited.
We concur in the opinion of the Court of Claims that
no infringement of claimant's patent is shown. In the
Act of June 25, 1910, under which this suit is brought
and under which alone it could be brought, it is expressly
provided that there shall be no such suit "based on the
use by the United States of any article heretofore owned,
leased, used by, or in the possession of the United States."
In view of this and of the fact that the cableways complained of were theretofore in the possession of and used by
the United States, claimant insists that after the passage
of the act the Government materially altered the cableways
in such a manner as to make them infringe his patent.
The contention is that the cables were tightened up in
order to decrease their deflection, and that this tightening, in view of the loads carried by the cables, caused
the supporting towers to yield or tilt, and thus to become
in essence movable towers like the gravity anchors covered by the claimant's patent. But, as pointed out by
the Court of Claims, it is beyond question that, as constructed and used generally, and as intended to be used,
the Government cableways did not infringe claimant's
device. The subsequent tightening of the cables was done

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

in the orderly conduct of the work for the purpose of
carrying the loads over and free from the work that was
being constructed. So far as this caused a yielding of the
tower under the stress of the load, it was an incidental
result, affecting or tending to affect the towers on both
sides, and not upon one side to the exclusion of the other.
It did not amount to a mechanical equivalent of the
claimant's structure; there is no semblance of an outward
inclination of a yielding tower or yielding support, but
rather a tendency on the part of rigid towers to break
down or collapse inwardly under an undue stress. And,
as we have shown, the rigidity of one support is as essential to claimant's structure as is the movability of the
other.
Inasmuch as the findings fully support the judgment
of the court below, its judgment must be and it is
Affirmed.

MACKAY TELEGRAPH & CABLE COMPANY v.
CITY OF LITTLE ROCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 374.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted March 3, 1919.Decided May 19, 1919.

A telegraph company, although engaged in interstate business and under
the restrictions and obligations of the Post Roads Act of July 24,
1866, is subject to reasonable taxes imposed by a city upon the maintenance of poles and wires erected and maintained by the company
within the limits of the city under authority granted by its ordinances. P. 99.
Inasmuch as one legitimate object of such a tax is to recoup the special
cost of governmental supervision and regulation, it is not a valid
objection that it extends to poles standing on a railroad right of way,

