OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

their jurisdiction. The Fairv. Kohler Die & Specialty Co.,
228 U. S. 22; Healy v. Sea Gull Specialty Co., 237 U. S. 479.
It is too clear for discussion that the case stated in the
bill is a suit for royalties based on the contract, and not
at all involving the construction of any law relating to
patents. It has been often decided by this court that
such a suit is not one arising under the patent laws, and
since less than the requisite jurisdictional amount is
claimed the District Court did not err in dismissing the
bill. Wilson v. Sanford, 10 How. 99; Dale Tile Mfg. Co.
v. Hyatt, 125 U. S. 46; Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S. 613;
Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co. v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U.
S. 282; Briggs v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 239 U. S. 48.
The decree of the District Court must be
Affirmed.

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER, AS RECEIVER OF THE
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF SALMON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 289. Argued April 28, 29, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.
In addition to the specific duties defined in the National Banking Law,
a director of a national bank is under a common-law obligation, to
depositors and shareholders as well as to borrowers, to exercise at
least ordinary care and prudence in the supervision and administration of the bank's affairs. P. 510.
While knowledge may be essential to render a director liable as for
a breach of a duty specially imposed by the statute, this does not
prevent application of the common-law rule in measuring violations
of common-law duties. P. 511.
Both kinds of liability may be asserted in one bill of complaint. Id.
A director of a national bank who wilfully fails to attend the meetings

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER.
504.

Opinion of the Court.

of the board of directors and otherwise to inform himself of the condition of the bank and to supervise its affairs is guilty of a breach of
his common-law obligation, and liable for losses resulting from gross
mismanagement by the executive officers which a proper attention
to his duties might have avoided. P. 513.
The fact that the director resides at a distance from the location of
the bank does not excuse him from this responsibility. P. 514.
Where a director of a national bank, charged in the same bill with both
statutory and common-law liability, secured a dismissal of the bill
on the plaintiff's proofs without introducing any evidence of his own,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the case and directed a
decree against him on the ground that the common-law liability
was established, held, that the defendant was not entitled to a
new trial of that issue upon the ground that the case in the District
Court had been treated as involving only the statutory liability. Id.
Under Rev. Stats., ยง 5145, a director of a national bank remains responsible as such in the absence of evidence that he has resigned or
refused to qualify when reilected. Id.
241 Fed. Rep. 737, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Oliver 0. Haga, with whom Mr. James H. Richards,
Mr. McKeen F. Morrow and Mr. J. L. Eberle were on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. J. M. Stevens, with whom Mr. Milton C. Elliott,
Mr. Jesse R. S. Budge and Mr. H. E. Ray were on the
brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit, commenced in the United States District
Court for the District of Idaho, Eastern Division, by the
Receiver of the First National Bank of Salmon, against
the former executive officers and directors of the bank to
obtain an accounting and decree for money lost by the
alleged unlawful and negligent management of the affairs of the bank.

OCTOBER TERM, 191&
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

The sole appellant, Bowerman, was a director, but not
an executive officer, of the bank from its organization in
January, 1906, until its failure in August, 1911, and, as
owner of $10,000 of the capital stock, he was the largest
stockholder but one.
The bank was located in a small town in Idaho. It had
a capital stock of only $25,000, which was increased, in
February, 1910, to $50,000, and it had a book surplus of
$15,000,-$5,000 of which was improperly carried to the
surplus account in July, 1910, when the capital was certainly impaired.
When the plaintiff rested, the appellant moved that the
bill be dismissed as to him, announcing that he would not
introduce any evidence in his own behalf, and at the conclusion of the trial the District Court granted his motion.
On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this
judgment, found Bowerman liable, and in the decree,
which we are reviewing, remanded the case to the District Court with direction to enter a decree in conformity
with the views expressed in its opinion.
The amended bill, on which the case was tried, is framed
in fact, though not in form, in the alternative, averring,
first, that the executive officers made and that the directors knowingly permitted them to make, three designated
loans, each in excess of one-tenth part of the paid in and
unimpaired capital stock and surplus of the bank, in violation of ยง5200 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States. It then proceeds to allege: that, beginning with
January, 1910, the affairs of the bank were grossly mismanaged by the executive officers, with the negligent permission of appellant and other directors; that of the three
designated loans, on which large losses were sustained, the
first was made to the Salmon Lumber Company, a corporation without financial resources to justify such a loan
without security, and with its capital stock owned principally by members of the family of the president of the

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER.
504.

Opinion of the Court.

bank; that the two other designated loans were negligently
made to persons without financial standing and without
security sufficient to justify the making of them; that
overdrafts aggregating large amounts were permitted to be
made by many persons, in violation of the by-laws of the
association, and that a dividend on the capital stock was
declared and paid in July, 1910, when the capital stock
and surplus of the bank had been much impaired and its
assets greatly depreciated. This gross mismanagement, it
is averred, caused the failure of the bank and the loss for
which recovery is prayed.
With respect to appellant Bowerman, it is specifically
alleged that in disregard of his oath as a director to diligently and honestly administer the affairs of the bank, he
negligently and wilfully failed: to attend a single meeting
of the board of directors, to at any time examine, or cause
to be examined, the books and papers of the bank to ascertain its condition, or to in any manner inform himself
as to the loans and overdrafts that were being made during
the long period of mismanagement by the executive officers. It is alleged that the exercise by him as a director
of a proper supervision of the affairs of the bank would
have prevented the mismanagement complained of and
the loss which resulted from it.
Appellant's answer to the bill is substantially a general
denial.
The evidence applicable to the allegations against Bowerman may be summarized as follows:
He was a director during the entire five and one-half
years of the existence of the bank, but never attended a
single directors' meeting, regular or special. The only
justification or excuse he offers for such conduct is that
he lived about 200 miles from the town in which the bank
was located and that communication between the two
places was difficult.
In a letter, which is in evidence, written by him to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

president of the bank in 1911, after the failure, he refers
to himself as "a nominal director," and says that prompted
by a published statement of the bank, which he had seen
in 1910, he began writing to the president, warning him
of the consequences if the "very hazardous manner of
conducting the bank" was not changed, "various matters
corrected and improved and more of the notes collected,
and the reserve kept up." In this letter he says that he
had never been "consulted, either as to the management
of the bank, its business transactions or its policy," and
that he had never received a statement of its condition,
either the usual published statement or one for his personal use, without making request for it, and that in some
cases he had been obliged to write several times before
one was sent to him. The record, however, does not show
that any communication of the kind described in this
letter was ever written by him prior to the failure.
The only certified copies in evidence of the oath taken
by Bowerman as a director are for the years beginning
in January, 1909, and in January, 1910. They are in the
form prescribed by statute, that the affiant will "diligently
and honestly administer the affairs of said association, and
will not knowingly violate, or willingly permit to be violated, any of the provisions" of the statutes of the United
States under which the association was organized.
The by-laws of the bank are in evidence and they require "that regular meetings of the directors shall be held
on the first Tuesday of each month;" that a "loans committee," to be composed of the president, cashier and one
director, shall make a report to each meeting of the board
of directors of all bills, notes, and other evidences of debt
discounted and purchased since its last previous report;
that no officer or clerk shall pay any check drawn upon
the bank unless the drawer at the time of its presentation
had sufficient funds on deposit to meet it; that a committee
of three directors shall examine the affairs of the bank

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER.
504.

Opinion of the Court.

every month to see whether it is in sound and solvent condition and to recommend changes which may seem desirable in the manner of doing business.
In addition to these, there was a special by-law adopted
on January 18,1910, upon the suggestion of the Comptroller
of the Treasury, requiring that "the Board of Directors
of the bank shall, at each monthly meeting, or oftener, examine and approve all loans and discounts, and such approval shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose."
Some of these by-laws were flagrantly disobeyed for
years before the failure, and the others were observed in
a manner so perfunctory as to amount to a disobedience of
them. The three large loans complained of were never
reported to the board of directors, except fragmentarily
from time to time when indistinguishably incorporated
with other overdrafts, although they were gradually accruing during many months.
When the bank failed its liabilities were $273,719.14
and its assets, nominally $325,624.12, from which, assuming that the stockholders' liability was not included in
them, (as to which the record is not clear), there was realized about $220,000, thus showing a shrinkage of approximately $100,000 in the resources of a bank with a capital
and surplus of $60,000.
The District Court, with the full record before it, found
the aggregate of the three excessive loans at the time the
bank failed to be $35,700. Each of these loans was made
up by allowing unsecured overdrafts to accumulate over
a considerable period of time and then permitting them
to be converted into unsecured notes.
Without going more into the details, there can be no
doubt that the business of the bank was surrendered
wholly to the president and cashier, and was grossly mismanaged after January, 1910, in utter disregard of the
national banking laws and of the by-laws of the association, and that this mismanagement was of such a charac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

ter that even slight care in the discharge of his duties as a
director must have led Bowerman, an experienced banker,
to discover the trend of the management and to have prevented the greater part, if not all, of the losses which resulted in the failure.
The appellant relies chiefly upon the assignment of
error that there is no evidence in the record to show that
he knowingly consented to the making of the three loans
in excess of the limit imposed by Rev. Stats., ยง 5200, and
therefore, he argues that under the rule prescribed in
Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 158, and Jones
National Bank v. Yates, 240 U. S. 541, the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals holding him liable is erroneous
and should be reversed.
While the cited cases hold that, in a suit for damages
against national bank directors, based solely upon a violation of duty imposed by the national bank act, it is not
enough to show a negligent violation of the act, but that
something more, in effect an intentional violation, must be
shown to justify a recovery, and that this is the exclusive rule for measuring the responsibility of directors as
to such violations, yet, it is expressly pointed out in the
opinion of the court, that the act does not relieve such
directors from the common-law duty to be honest and
diligent, as is shown by the oath which they are required
to take to "diligently and honestly administer the affairs
of such association" as well as not to "knowingly violate,
or willingly permit to be violated, any of the provisions
of this Title,"-the National Bank Act.
The rule thus announced would perhaps be applicable
if the bill were limited to the charge of liability based
solely upon the statutory prohibition of excessive loans,
for it is reasonably clear that Bowerman did not have
actual knowledge of the making of the loans or of anything else connected with the conduct of the bank. He
deliberately avoided acquiring knowledge of its affairs and

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER.
504.

Opinion of the Court.

wholly abdicated the duty of supervision and control
which rested upon him as a director.
The National Bank Act imposes various specific duties
on directors other than those imposed by the common law
and it is obviously possible that a director may neglect
one or more of the former and not any of the latter, or vice
versa. For example, in this case we have the gross negligence of the appellant, in failing to discharge his commonlaw duty to diligently administer the affairs of the bank,
made the basis for the contention that he did not "knowingly" violate his statutory duty by permitting the excessive loans to be made. While the statute furnishes
the exclusive rule for determining whether its provisions
have been violated or not, this does not prevent the application of the common-law rule for measuring violations
of common-law duties. And there is no sound reason
why a bill may be not so framed that, ifthe evidence
fails to establish statutory negligence but establishes
common-law negligence, a decree may be entered accordingly, and thus the necessity for a resort to a second
suit avoided.
The bill in this case is given, as we have seen, this
broader scope, and contains the charge of statutory as
well as common-law negligence on appellant's part, resulting in the loss complained of. Such pleading was accepted as proper practice in Briggs v. Spaulding, 141 U.
S. 132, 142, 165, in which a bill thus "framed upon the
theory of a breach by the defendants as directors 'of
their common-law duties as trustees of a financial corporation and of breaches of special restrictions and obligations
of the national banking act,"' was under consideration
by this court, and, upon a full review of the decisions, the
rule for determining the common-law liability of directors of such banks was twice stated, once on p. 152:
"In any view the degree of care to which these defendants were bound is that which ordinarily prudent and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

diligent men would exercise under similar circumstances,
and in determining that the restrictions of the statute
and the usages of business should be taken into account.
What may be negligence in one case may not be want of
ordinary care in another, and the question of negligence
is, therefore, ultimately a question of fact, to be determined under all the circumstances."
And again, in the final summing up, on p. 165:
"Without reviewing the various decisions on the subject, we hold that the directors must exercise ordinary
care and prudence in the administration of the affairs of
a bank, and that this includes something more than officiating as figure-heads. They are entitled under the law to
commit the banking business, as defined, to their dulyauthorized officers, but this does not absolve them from
the duty of reasonable supervision, nor ought they to be
permitted to be shielded from liability because of want of
knowledge of wrong-doing, if that ignorance is the result
of gross inattention."
In an earlier case, Martin v. Webb, 110 U. S. 7, 15, it
was said:
"Directors cannot, in justice to those who deal with
the bank, shut their eyes to what is going on around them.
It is their duty to use ordinary diligence in ascertaining
the condition of its business, and to exercise reasonable control and supervision of its officers. They have something
more to do than, from time to time, to elect the officers
of the bank, and to make declarations of dividends. That
which they ought, by proper diligence, to have known as
to the general course of business in the bank, they may
be presumed to have known in any contest between the
corporation and those who are justified by the circumstances in dealing with its officers upon the basis of that
course of business."
This latter statement of the rule is made in a case dealing only with borrowers from the bank, but there is no

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER.
504.

Opinion of the Court.

good reason why it should not be applied for the protection of depositors and stockholders.
While the rule as thus formulated in Briggs v. Spaulding, supra, has been thought by some state courts of last
resort to be an under-statement of the law of the duty of
bank directors, it is amply broad, without re-statement,
for the disposition of the case before us.
That ordinarily prudent and diligent men, accepting
election to membership in a bank directorate, would not
wilfully absent themselves from directors' meetings for
years together as Bowerman did cannot be doubted; that
a director who never makes, or causes to be made, any
examination whatever of the books or papers of the bank
to determine its condition and the way in which it is being conducted, does not exercise ordinary care and prudence in the management of the affairs of the bank is
equally clear, and that Bowerman, Y.hen guilty of neglect in both of these respects, did not exercise the diligence
which prudent men would usually exercise in ascertaining the condition of the business of the bank or a reasonable control and supervision over its affairs and officers
is likewise beyond discussion. He cannot be shielded from
liability because of want of knowledge of wrong-doing on
his part, since that ignorance was the result of gross inattention in the discharge of his voluntarily assumed and
sworn duty.
Bowerman was a banker, and the letter, from which we
have quoted, written to the president of the bank which
failed, shows he so understood the business of banking
and what was necessary for the safe conduct of it that
even slight care on his part in the discharge of his duty as
a director must have discovered and arrested what he
himself characterized as a hazardous manner of conducting its affairs. He was a man of such importance and
reputation that the use of his name must have contributed to securing the confidence of the community and of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

depositors for the bank, and it would be a reproach to the
law to permit his residence at a distance from the location of the bank, a condition which existed from the time
he first assumed the office of director, to serve as an excuse for his utter abdication of his common-law responsibility for the conduct of its affairs and for the flagrant
violation of his oath of office when it resulted in loss to
others.
It is argued that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed and the cause remanded for a
new trial for the reason that the trial in the District Court
was on the theory that only the charge of statutory liability was involved and to be met by the appellant, and
that he should have an opportunity to produce evidence,
if he desires, on the issue of common-law liability.
At his peril the appellant put the construction on :the
pleadings which, for the reasons stated in this opinion, was
erroneous. The suit was in equity and he was charged
with notice that the decision of the trial court was subject
to review on both the law and the facts and, although he
was present in court during the trial, he neither took the
stand to testify in his own behalf nor offered any evidence
upon the question of his liability. The interests represented by the receiver are entitled to consideration as well
as those of the appellant and the contention cannot be
allowed.
It is also urged that the appellant resigned his office
as director some time before the bank failed and that the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals renders him liable
for transactions after his resignation.
The only showing on this subject in the record is the
averment in appellant's answer that he was not a director
of the bank after about the first day of July, 1910, and
that he refused to qualify when notified of his re-election
in January, 1911. These allegations must be deemed denied under the 31st Equity Rule, The only evidence in

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER.
504.

Dissent.

the record on the subject is the oath of office taken by appellant in January, 1910, and the testimony of the receiver that the letter from the appellant to the president
of the bank, from which we have quoted, was the only
letter from him which he found, among the papers which
came into his possession as receiver, bearing on the mismanagement of the bank,-and that letter was written
after the failure. Section 5145 of the Revised Statutes
provides that directors shall hold office for one year and
until their successors are elected and have qualified. In
the absence of evidence that the appellant resigned or refused to qualify when re-elected in January, 1911, we must
agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals in the conclusion
reached, with the full record before it, that he continued
to be a director "from the organization of the bank until
the receiver took charge."
Other claims of error, chiefly technical, have been
pressed upon our attention, and have all been considered
and found to be without substantial merit. Conduct
such as this appellant was so palpably guilty of is not to be
weighed in the scales of an apothecary. The decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.
Mn. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE MCREYdissent.

NOLDS

