DENVER & R. G. R. R. CO. v. DENVER.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

DENVER & RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.

DENVER & RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
DENVER, STATE OF COLORADO.

Nos. 322, 323.

Submitted April 23, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Contract and property rights of a railroad company in respect of the
operation of a track in a public street are held subject to the fair
exercise by a State, or by a municipality as its agent, of the power
to make and enforce regulations reasonably necessary to secure
public safety. P. 244.
A track constructed under ordinance grant by a railroad as part of its
main line but later used only to serve abutting private industries,
traversed a city side street and crossed a thoroughfare used daily
by thousands of people in approaching and leaving the Union
Depot, which was very near the intersection. Held, that an ordinance of the city requiring removal of the track where it crossed
the thoroughfare, for the safety of the public, did not violate the
rights of the railroad under the contract and due process clauses,
it appearing that use of the track could still be maintained
through connections with the yards of its owner and of another
company, and that resulting expense and loss of revenue would
be relatively small. P. 245.
An ordinance which makes no discrimination against interstate commerce, and affects it only incidentally and indirectly, is not objectionable under the commerce clause. P. 246.
167 Pac. Rep. 969, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. N. Clark for plaintiff in error. Mr. J. G. McMurry was on the briefs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Mr. James A. Marsh and Mr. Norton Montgomery for
defendants in error. Mr. J. J. Lieberman was on the
briefs.
MR. JUsTIcE Vix DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a suit to enjoin the enforcement of an ordinance
directing the removal of a railroad track from the intersection of two streets in Denver. On the hearing the
plaintiff prevailed, but this was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the State with a direction to dismiss the complaint, 167 Pac. Rep. 969, and the direction was followed.
The case is here on two writs of error when one would
suffice.
The ordinance is assailed as contravening the contract
and commerce clauses of the Constitution and the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In 1881 a union depot with appurtenant tracks was
established in Denver, the streets and alleys within the
grounds thus occupied being vacated by the city; and
since then all railroads entering the city have used this
depot and its tracks. Wynkoop Street is outside the depot
grounds and extends east and west along their south line.
The depot faces that street and is but a short distance
from it. On the other side of the depot are the depot
tracks. These connect on the west with several railroad
yards including that of the Rio Grande Company, and on
the east with other railroad yards, including that of the
Union Pacific Company. Wynkoop Street is intersected
just opposite the entrance to the depot by Seventeenth
Street, which extends northward through the city and is
one of its main thoroughfares. Persons and vehicles
approaching or leaving the depot pass over this intersection, the number doing so each day being approximately two thousand.

DENVER & R. G. R. R. CO. v. DENVER.
241.

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff, the Rio Grande Company, has a track in
Wynkoop Street from Nineteenth Street to Fourteenth
Street. At its eastern terminus--near Nineteenth Streetthis track meets a track of the Union Pacific Company
which is connected with the yard of that company, and
at Fourteenth Street it curves and leads to the Rio
Grande Company's yard. Originally it was part of the
Rio Grande Company's main line, but since 1881, when
the union depot was established, it has been used only as
a side track in serving industries on the south side of
Wynkoop Street.
The ordinance assailed directs the removal of so much
of this track as lies within the intersection of Wynkoop
and Seventeeth Streets, that is to say, the portion over
which persons and vehicles pass in moving to and from the
union depot; and a preamble recites that the use of that
portion of the track impedes public travel, affects the
safety of persons approaching or leaving the union depot
and is no longer essential to the Rio Grande Company.
The Union Pacific Company has a track in the same
intersection which the ordinance deals with in the same
way, but that company apparently is not complaining.
If the ordinance is enforced the Rio Grande Company
can reach the industries on its track in Wynkoop Street
between Seventeenth and Nineteenth Streets only through
the tracks of the union depot and the Union Pacific. Because of this it will be subjected to some expense and
delay not heretofore attending that service, and it also
will be prevented from switching cars to and from those
industries for other railroads and thereby will lose some
revenue. But, according to the record, the loss in expense
and otherwise incident to these disadvantages will be
relatively small.
The track in Wynkoop Street has been there since 1871,
and we shall assume, as did the Supreme Court of the
State, that it was put there in virtue of some ordinance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

that period, and that the ordinance became a contract
and the right granted became a vested property right.
But, as this court often has held, such contracts and rights
are held subject to the fair exercise by the State, or the
municipality as its agent, of the power to adopt and enforce such regulations as are reasonably necessary to secure
the public safety; for this power "is inalienable even by
express grant" and its legitimate exertion contravenes
neither the contract clause of the Constitution nor the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 558;
Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67, 76.
Of course, all regulations of this class are subject to judicial scrutiny and where they are found to be plainly unreasonable and arbitrary must be pronounced invalid as
transcending that power and falling within the condemnation of one or both, as the case may be, of those constitutional restrictions.
The scope of the power and instances of its application
are shown in the decisions sustaining regulations (a) requiring railroad companies at their own expense to abrogate grade crossings by elevating or depressing their
tracks and putting in bridges or viaducts at public crossings, Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583;
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis,
232 U. S. 430; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Omaha, 235 U.
S. 121; (b) requiring a railroad company at its own cost
to change the location of a track and also to elevate it as
a means of making travel on a highway safe, New York &
New England R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; (c) prohibiting a railroad company from laying more than a single
track in a narrow busy street although its franchise authorized it to lay a double track there, Baltimore v. Baltimore
Trust Co., 166 U. S. 673; and (d) requiring a gas company
whose mains and pipes were laid beneath the surface of a
street under an existing franchise to shift them to another

DENVER & R. G. R. R. CO. v. DENVER.
241.

Opinion of the Court.

location at its own cost to make room for a public drainage
system, New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Commission, 197 U. S. 453.
Is the ordinance here in question plainly unreasonable
and arbitrary? That there is occasion for some real regulation is clear. The crossing is practically in the gateway
to the city. Persons in large numbers pass over it every
day-many of them unacquainted with the surroundings.
Moving engines and cars to and fro over such a place
makes it one of danger. Any one of several forms of
corrective regulation might be applied. To illustrate:
The city might call on the railroad company to construct
and maintain a viaduct over the crossing or a tunnel under
it; or might lay on the company the duty of maintaining
watchmen or flagmen at the crossing. What it actually
does by the ordinance is to call on the company to remove
the track from the crossing and avail itself of other accessible and fairly convenient means of getting cars to and
from its track east of the crossing. No doubt in this the
company will experience some disadvantages, but they
will be far less burdensome than would be the construction
and maintenance of a viaduct or tunnel, and not much
more so than would be the keeping of watchmen or flagmen
at the crossing.
The situation is unusual and the ordinance deals with
it in a rather practical way. Giving effect to all that appears, we are unable to say that what is required is plainly
unreasonable and arbitrary.
Counsel for the company manifest some concern lest
the rates for switching cars to and from its track east of
the crossing may not be satisfactory, but there hardly can
be any real trouble along that line. The rates will be
subject to investigation and supervision by public commissions just as are other railroad rates, and possible
differences over them will be susceptible of ready adjustment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

The objection that the ordinance offends against the
commerce clause of the Constitution is not tenable. The
ordinance makes no discrimination against interstate
commerce, will not impede its movement in regular
course, and will affect it only incidentally and indirectly.
South Covington Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537, 540;
Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 58, 60. The case of
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Kaw Valley Drainage
District,233 U. S. 75, obviously is not to the contrary.
Judgment affirmed.

THE, LAKE MONROE. 1
ON PETITION FOR WRITS OF PROHIBITION OR MANDAMUS.

No. 30, Original. Argued April 21, 22, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.
Under the Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182, empowering the
President, inter alia, to requisition private shipping for use and

operation by the United States, permitting the exercise of the power
through such agencies as he may determine, and providing that ships
so requisitioned shall be managed, operated and disposed of as he may
direct; and under the President's order of July 11, 1917, delegating
those powers for exercise by the Shipping Board and Emergency
Fleet Corporation, a ship in course of construction was requisitioned
and completed by the Corporation, documented in the name of the
United States, and operated by the Board through the Corporation
and a private firm, who, as managing and operating agents of the
Board, chartered her to a private company for the coastwise carriage
of a private cargo of coal. While so engaged a collision occurred, and
the vessel was libeled in the District Court. Held, that the District
Court had jurisdiction to arrest the vessel, under ยง 9 of the Shipping
Board Act of September 7, 1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, providing that
vessels purchased, chartered, or leased by the Board, "while emI The docket title of this case is: Ex parte: In the Matter of the
United States, Petitioner.

