UNITED STATES v. FERGER.
Counsel for the United States.

195.

power to entertain and entered a decree of dismissal for
want of jurisdiction. But the form of the decree thus
entered affects in no way the control and decisive result,
upon every issue in the case, of the ruling this day announced in Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota,
ante, 163. It follows therefore that in this case our decree
must be and is one of affirmance.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissents.

UNITED STATES v. FERGER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 776.

Argued April 29, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Under the commerce clause, Congress has power to deal with acts
not in themselves interstate commerce but which obstruct or otherwise injuriously affect it. P. 202.
Bills of lading in interstate commerce are instrumentalities of that
commerce, subject to the authority of Congress under the commerce
clause. P. 204.
Judicial notice will be taken of the importance of bills of lading in
interstate commerce. Id.
Congress has power to prohibit and punish the forgery and utterance
of bills of lading for fictitious shipments in interstate commerce,
as a means of protecting and sustaining that commerce. P. 205.
256 Fed. Rep. 388, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Charles H. Weston was on the brief, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. John C. Hermann and Mr. Sherman T. McPherson were on the brief,
for defendants in error.
Mr. Francis B. James, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the National Industrial Traffic League, as amicus
curix.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The twenty-four counts of the indictment in this case
were concerned with the commission of acts defined as
criminal and punished by the 41st section of the Act of
August 29, 1916, entitled, "An Act Relating to bills of
lading in interstate and foreign commerce." (39 Stat. 538.)
In the first count it was charged that the accused, in
violation of the section, on or about the 14th day of August,
1917, in Cincinnati, Ohio,-"did . . . feloniously,
and with intent to defraud, falsely make, forge and counterfeit, and aid and assist in falsely making, forging, and
counterfeiting a certain bill of lading purporting to represent goods received at Fountaintown, in the State of
Indiana, for shipment to Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio,
and to utter and publish and aid and assist in uttering and
publishing such falsely made, forged, and counterfeited bill
of lading, then and there knowing the same to be falsely
made, forged, and counterfeited.
A copy of the fabricated bill of lading was reproduced in
the count. It was negotiable in form, following the standard approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission
(Docket No. 787, June 27, 1908). The bill acknowledged the
receipt by the Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railway
Company of corn in bulk at a designated place in Indiana,
shipped to Cincinnati to the order of the shipper, and with
directions to notify a person named. It contained all the

UNITED STATES v. FERGER.
199.

Opinion of the Court.

earmarks which would have been found in a genuine bill
of lading.
The second count charged the knowing, wilful and felonious uttering of the bill of lading and, with criminal
intent and knowledge, obtaining money on it from the
Second National Bank of Cincinnati by using it as collateral.
These first two counts are types of the remaining twentytwo, except that the latter dealt with eleven other bills of
lading as to each of which there were two counts, charging
in the exact words used in the first and second counts, on
the one hand the felonious fabricating and uttering of a
bill of lading, and on the other hand the uttering and obtaining on the same bill of money from the Second National Bank of Cincinnati.
There was a motion to quash all the counts based upon
alleged defects in pleading with which we are not concerned, and by demurrer the failure of the indictment to
charge an offense was asserted on these grounds:
"First. That said act of Congress . . . approved
August 29, 1916, is unconstitutional and void, especially
section 41 of said act in so far as it attempts to make it a
crime and punish any person who forges or counterfeits
a bill of lading where no shipment from one State to another is made or intended.
"Second. That said act can only apply to bills of lading
representing actual shipments of merchandise or commerce
between the States. If it is intended to apply to wholly
fictitious shipments, it is unconstitutional and void so far
as said fictitious shipments are concerned, because the
power of Congress to legislate upon this subject matter is
based wholly and solely upon the commercial clause of the
Constitution, and if there is no commerce, there is no jurisdiction."
The demurrer was sustained and all the counts in the
indictment were dismissed. The court said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

"It was agreed at the argument and assumed in the
briefs of counsel that the so-called bills of lading were fictitious, in that there was no actual consignor or consignee,
and that they did not relate to any shipment or contemplated shipment of corn whatsoever. This fact so agreed
upon in open court is to be read into the indictments."
Dealing with the case thus made, the court observed:
"These bogus bills of lading were nothing but pieces of
paper, fraudulently inscribed to represent a real contract
between real people and the actual receipt of goods for
interstate shipment. . . . That they were inscribed so
as to purport to relate to interstate shipments was nothing
else than a fraud upon such persons as innocently took
them, as collateral or otherwise. The execution of them
and their use for obtaining money under false pretenses
was nothing other than a crime of the kind cognizable by
the criminal legislation of the States, and a matter with
which the Congress, in the exercise of its power to regulate
commerce, is not concerned."
And upon these premises, after reviewing what were
deemed to be the controlling authorities, it was concluded
that the case "must be decided in favor of the defendants,
and the holding made that Congress has not the power,
under the commerce clause, to prescribe a punishment
under the circumstances of this case, and if the Congress
has sought to do so, the attempt is futile, because without
authority."
Despite the hypothetical form in which this conclusion
is expressed, the context of the opinion makes it certain
that, reading the facts charged in the indictment in the
light of the admissions made at the argument, the court
construed the section of the statute as embracing such
acts and decided that as thus construed it was void for
repugnancy to the Constitution.
At the outset confusion in considering the issue may
result unless obscurity begotten by the form in which the

UNITED STATES v. FERGER.
199.

Opinion of the Court.

contention is stated be dispelled. Thus both in the pleadings and in the contention as summarized by the court
below it is insisted that as there was and could be no
commerce in a fraudulent and fictitious bill of lading,
therefore the power of Congress to regulate commerce
could not embrace such pretended bill. But this mistakenly assumes that the power of Congress is to be necessarily tested by the intrinsic existence of commerce in the
particular subject dealt with, instead of by the relation of
that subject to commerce and its effect upon it. We say
mistakenly assumes, because we think it clear that if the
proposition were sustained it would destroy the power of
Congress to regulate, as obviously that power, if it is to
exist, must include the authority to deal with obstructions
to interstate commerce (In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564) and with
a host of other acts which, because of their relation to and
influence upon interstate commerce, come within the
power of Congress to regulate, although they are not
interstate commerce in and of themselves. It would be
superfluous to refer to the authorities which from the foundation of the Government have measured the exertion by
Congress of its power to regulate commerce by the principle just stated, since the doctrine is elementary and is
but an expression of the text of the Constitution. Art. I,
ยง 8, clause 18. A case dealing with a somewhat different
exercise of power, but affording a good illustration of the
application of the principle to the subject in hand, is
FirstNational Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S. 416.
Although some of the forms of expression used in the
opinion below might serve to indicate that the error just
referred to had found lodgment in the mind of the court,
the context of the opinion makes it certain that such was
not the case, since the court left no obscurity in its statement of the issue which it decided, saying "They [the fictitious bills of lading] did not affect interstate commerce,
directly or indirectly; they did not obstruct it or interfere

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

with it in any manner, and had nothing whatsoever to do
with it, or with any existing instrumentality of it."
This statement not only clearly and accurately shows the
question decided, but also with precision and directness
points out the single and simple question which we must
consider and dispose of in order to determine whether the
court below erred in holding that the authority of Congress
to regulate commerce did not embrace the power to forbid
and punish the fraudulent fabrication and use of fictitious
interstate bills of lading.
That bills of lading for the movement of interstate
commerce are instrumentalities of that commerce which
Congress under its power to regulate connerce has the
authority to deal with and provide for is too clear for anything but statement, as manifested not only by that which
is concluded by prior decisions, but also by the exertion
of the power by Congress. Nothing could better illustrate this latter view than do the general provisions of the
act, the 41st section of which is before us. See also Act of
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, ยง 7, 34 Stat. 584, 593; Act of June
18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 546; Almy v. California, 24
How. 169; Thames & Mersey Marine Insurance Co. v.
United States, 237 U. S.19, 26; Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S. 371, 378; Luckenbach v.
McCahan Sugar Refining Co., 248 U. S. 139; Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Sealy, 248 U. S.363. That as
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, bills of lading
are the efficient means of credit resorted to for the purpose
of securing and fructifying the flow of a vast volume of
interstate commerce upon which the commercial intercourse of the country, both domestic and foreign, largely
depends, is a matter of common knowledge as to the course
of business of which we may take judicial notice. Indeed,
that such bills of lading and the faith and credit given to
their genuineness and the value they represent are the
producing and sustaining causes of the enormous number

UNITED STATES v. FERGER.
199.

Opinion of the Court.

of transactions in domestic and foreign exchange, is also
so certain and well known that we may notice it without
proof.
With this situation in mind the question therefore is,
Was the court below right in holding that Congress had
no power to prohibit and punish the fraudulent making of
spurious interstate bills of lading as a means of protecting
and sustaining the vast volume of interstate commerce
operating and moving in reliance upon genuine bills? To
state the question is to manifest the error which the court
committed, unless that view is overcome by the reasoning
by which the conclusion below was sought to be sustained.
What was that reasoning? That the bills were but "pieces
of paper, fraudulently inscribed" and "did not affect
interstate commerce, directly or indirectly . . . and
had nothing whatsoever to do with it, or with any existing instrumentality of it." But this rests upon the unsustainable assumption that the undoubted power which
existed to regulate the instrumentality, the genuine bill,
did not give any power to prevent the fraudulent and
spurious imitation. It proceeds further, as we have already shown, upon the erroneous theory that the credit
and confidence which sustains interstate commerce would
not be impaired or weakened by the unrestrained right to
fabricate and circulate spurious bills of lading apparently
concerning such commerce. Nor is the situation helped by
saying that as the manufacture and use of the spurious
interstate commerce bills of lading were local, therefore
the power to deal with them was exclusively local, since
the proposition disregards the fact that the spurious bills
were in the form of interstate commerce bills which in and
of themselves involved the potentiality of fraud as farreaching and all-embracing as the flow of the channels of
interstate commerce in which it was contemplated the
fraudulent bills would circulate. As the power to regulate
the instrumentality was coextensive with interstate com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Dissent.

250 U. S.

merce, so it must be, if the authority to regulate is not to
be denied, that the right to exert such authority for the
purpose of guarding against the injury which would result from the-making and use of spurious imitations of the
instrumentality must be equally extensive.
We fail to understand the danger to the powers of government of the several States which it is suggested must
arise from sustaining the validity of the provisions of the
act of Congress in question. On the contrary, we are of
opinion that to deny the power asserted would be to depart from the text of the Constitution and to overthrow
principles of interpretation which, as we have seen, have
been settled since McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
and which in application have never been deviated from.
This conclusion remains unshaken despite an examination of the decided cases cited by the court below in its
opinion or which were pressed upon our attention in
argument, since in our judgment they all but express the
general principles of interpretation which we have applied
and which are decisive against the contention of want of
power in Congress which was upheld below and is here
insisted upon.
It follows that the judgment below was wrong. It must
therefore be reversed and the case be remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JusTncEn PITNEY dissents.

