OCTOBER TERM, 1018.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 276, 277, that because federal courts may in
proper cases direct verdicts, therefore, in the exercise of
sound discretion they may deny an application for leave
to take a nonsuit and direct verdict for defendant is not
well founded.
Under the Virginia statute, in the absence of a demurrer
to the evidence and joinder therein, the plaintiff may take
a nonsuit at any time before submission of the case to the
jury and their retirement. The Conformity Statute gives
the same right in federal courts. This conclusion accords
with opinions by the Circuit Courts of Appeals for the
Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Circuits. Knight v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 180 Fed. Rep. 368; Meyer v. National
Biscuit Co., 168 Fed. Rep. 906; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.
Co. v. Metalstaff, 101 Fed. Rep. 769.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court with direction to set
aside the judgment in favor of respondent and sustain
motion to enter a nonsuit. Knight v. Illinois Central R. R.
Co., supra, 374; Harrison v. Clemens, supra, 374, 375.
Reversed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
v. LEATHERWOOD.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, SECOND
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 249.

Submitted March 19, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

Under the Carmack Amendment, connecting carriers, by requiring a
shipper to sign new bills of lading for a shipment billed over their
lines by the initial carrier, are not estopped to avail themselves of
a provision of the original bill limiting the time for bringing actions

TEXAS & PAC. RY. CO. v. LEATHERWOOD.

478.

479

Opinion of BRANDE IS, J.

for damages, (p. 481), where- the new bills were not acquiesced in
by the shipper. P. 483.
A stipulation in a bill of lading limiting to six months the time within
which the shipper may sue for damages is not unreasonable and,
before the Act of March 4, 1915, c. 176, 38 Stat. 1196, was valid
under the Carmack Amendment. P. 481.
Where matter clearly not required for a proper presentation of the
questions submitted is incorporated into the transcript, the court
may, under Rule 8, ยง 1, require that the whole of the clerk's fees for
supervising the printing and the cost of printing the record be borne
by the offending party. P. 482.
Reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Thompson and Mr. J. H. Barwise, Jr., for
petitioners.
Mr. D. T. Bomar for respondent.
was on the brief.

Mr. J. E. Garland

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS announced the judgment of the
court, and delivered the following opinion:
Leatherwood made, in 1913, a shipment of horses from
Watrous, New Mexico, to Waco, Texas, over four connecting railroads. The initial carrier gave him a through
bill of lading which contained a provision barring any action for damages unless suit was brought within six months
after the loss occurred. When the horses reached the lines
of the Texas & Pacific Railway and of the Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Railway, each of these companies insisted, as a condition of carrying them further, that
Leatherwood accept and sign a new bill of lading covering
the shipment over its line, and he did so.
In 1915 he brought suit in a state court of Texas for
injury to the horses while in transit on the lines of those
two companies, The bills of lading issued by them did

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of BRANDEIS, J.

250 U. S.

not contain the provision requiring suit to be brought
within six months; but the carriers set up as a defense
the provisions to that effect contained in the original bill
of lading, contending that under the Carmack Amendment (Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 595) all
connecting carriers were bound by its terms and that the
later ones issued by themselves were of no legal effect.'
The trial court denied this contention, and ruled as matter
of law that the carriers could not rely upon the provision
in the initial bill of lading. Judgment was entered for the
plaintiff and affirmed by the Court of Civil Appeals.
On June 2, 1917, that court denied a rehearing and declined to certify to the Supreme Court of Texas the questions involved. The case comes here on writ of certiorari
(245 U. S. 649) under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, as
amended by Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat.
726.
The final decision below was rendered two days before
the decision of this court in Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co. v. Ward, 244 U. S. 383. There one of the same
railroads had, as connecting carrier, issued a second bill
of lading to shippers of live stock who had received from
the initial carriers a through bill of lading on an interstate
shipment. But there the carriers relied for defense upon
a clause in the second bill of lading, which was not contained in the first. We held that the second bill of lading
was void, since under the Carmack Amendment the several
carriers must be treated, not as independent contracting
parties, but as one system; and that the connecting lines
become in effect mere agents whose duty it is to forward
the goods under the terms of the contract made by their
principal, the initial carrier, and that they are prevented

I The rights of the parties are not affected by the Act of March 4,
1915, c. 176, 38 Stat. 1196, which prohibits a common carrier from
providing by contract or otherwise for a shorter period than two years
for the institution of suits.

TEXAS & PAC. RY. CO. v. LEATHERWOOD.
478.

Opinion of

481

BRANDEIS, J.

by law from varying the terms of that contract. Leatherwood contends that the principle upon which the case was
decided is not applicable here, because there the carriers
sought to avail themselves of the second bill of lading,
while here they seek to ignore it; and he insists that the
carriers are, by their conduct, estopped from asserting
its invalidity. As stated in Georgia, Florida & Alabama
Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190, 197, the parties
to a bill of lading cannot waive its terms, nor can the
carrier by its conduct give the shipper a right to ignore
them. "A different view would antagonize the plain
policy of the Act and open the door to the very abuses
at which the Act was aimed." The bill of lading given
by the initial carrier embodies the contract for transportation from point of origin to destination; and its terms in
respect to conditions of liability are binding upon the
shipper and upon all connecting carriers, just as a rate
properly filed by the initial carrier is binding upon them.
Each has in effect the force of a statute, of which all
affected must take notice. That a carrier cannot be
prevented by estoppel or otherwise from taking advantage
of the lawful rate properly filed under the Interstate
Commerce Act is well settled. A carrier has, for instance,
been permitted to collect the legal rate, although it had
quoted a lower rate and the shipper was ignorant of the
fact that it was not the legal rate. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
Henderson Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 441; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94; Missouri, Kansas
& Texas Ry. Co. of Texas v. Schnoutz, 245 U. S. 641 (Per
curiam).
The provision in the original bill of lading limiting to
six months the time within which suit may be brought,
not being unreasonable (Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657, 672-673), was valid; and
as the original bill of lading remained binding, the lower

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
McREYNOLDS,

J., concurring.

250 U. S.

courts erred in denying it effect. The judgment of the
Court of Civil Appeals must therefore be reversed.
The record occupies 213 printed pages. Most of the
matter which was included in it at the instance of petitioners was clearly not required for a proper presentation
of the questions submitted here. Much useless expense
has been incurred; and both court and counsel have been
subjected to the burden of examining much that is irrelevant. Section 1 of Rule 8 of this court specifically provides that if portions of the record unnecessary to a proper
presentation of the case are found to have been incorporated into the transcript by either party, the court may
order that the whole or any part of the clerk's fees for
supervising the printing and the cost of printing the record
be paid by the offending party. Under the circumstances
of this case it seems appropriate that the whole of this
expense be borne by the petitioners; and it is so ordered.
Judgment reversed.
I am authorized to say that THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR.
HOLMES, and MR. JUSTICE DAY concur in the
above opinion.
JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY,

and

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.
MR. JUSTICE

McREYNoLis concurring.

I concur in the conclusion that the judgment below
must be reversed. Circumstances disclosed by the record
and not discussed in the opinion, I think, require this
result. But the broad declaration that the parties to a
bill of lading cannot waive its terms nor can the carrier,
by its conduct, give the shipper the right to ignore them
goes beyond what is necessary to the decision and I am
not prepared to assent to it as a proposition of law.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. BOGERT.
478.

Syllabus.

Suit was originally brought against the initial line (The
Santa Fe) and connecting ones-Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
and Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway-the claim being
based upon the implied obligation arising out of delivery
and acceptance of the horses by the former for through
interstate carriage. In his pleadings the shipper expressly
denied validity of all bills of lading-one issued by the
Santa Fe and one by each of the petitioners. Of course,
under the rule approved in Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. Ward, 244 U. S. 383, he could have relied upon the
first bill; but it does not follow that if, during transit, a
connecting carTier declined to recognize the original agreement for through transportation and refused to proceed
thereunder, he had no power to acquiesce, take possession
of the animals and re-ship under another contract with
such carrier not subject to avoidance by it. And if, in
the present cause, instead of repudiating the bills of lading
issued by connecting roads he had relied upon them the
question presented would be a very different one, decision
of which is not now demanded.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

joins in this opinion.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. BOGERT ET
AL., EXECUTORS OF LAWRENCE, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 305. Argued April 17, 21, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.
To constitute laches it is essential that there be acquiescence in the
alleged wrong or lack of diligence in seeking a remedy, in addition
to lapse of time. P. 488.

