MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
519.

Syllabus.

charter and none other. Southwestern R. R. Co. v. Wright,
116 U. S. 231. But conversely it means that that road
shall be exempt while owned by this corporation whether
used or demised.
We see nothing in the later statutes or constitutions
that attempts to substitute a new contract or to impair the
obligation of the one originally made. Different opinions
were entertained on the main question which this rehearing does not reopen; but taking that as settled we cannot
believe that any real distinction can be made between the
charter of the Augusta and Waynesboro and those of the
Southwestern and Muscogee roads.
The decree of last term must stand and that of the state
court must be reversed.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, MR.

JusncE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

MAXWELL ET AL., EXECUTORS OF McDONALD,
v. BUGBEE, COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY
OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY, ET AL.
HILL, ADMINISTRATOR OF HILL, v. BUGBEE,
COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Nos. 43, 238.

Argued March 18, 19, 1919.-Decided October 27, 1919.

Article IV, § 2, par. 1, of the Constitution, was intended to prevent
discrimination by the several States against citizens of other States
in respect of the fundamental privileges of citizenship. P. 537.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

The Fourteenth Amendment recognizes a distinction between citizenship of the United States and citizenship of one of the States, and
its purpose in declaring that no State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States is not to transfer to the Federal Government the protection of civil rights inherent in state citizenship but to secure
those privileges and immunities that owe their existence to the
Federal Government, its national character, its Constitution, or its
laws. P. 537. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
These privileges and immunities provisions do not prevent a State
from taxing the privilege of succeeding by will or inheritance from
a non-resident decedent to property within its jurisdiction. P. 538.
Quare: Whether these privileges and immunities clauses are applicable
when the alleged discrimination (in a state inheritance tax law) is
based not on citizenship but on the residence or non-residence of
the decedent? Id.
The fact that a state tax on the succession to local property of a nonresident decedent is measured by the ratio in value of such property
to the entire estate, including real and personal property in other
States, does not make it a tax on the property beyond the jurisdiction and thus obnoxious to the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 539.
The difference between the relations to the State of resident and nonresident testators or intestates affords justification within the equal
protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment for measuring
succession taxes in different ways. P. 540.
The question of equal protection must be decided between resident
and non-resident decedents as classes, rather than by the incidence
of the tax in particular cases. P. 543.
The New Jersey inheritance tax, as to estates of resident decedents, is
measured on all the property passing testate or intestate under the
law of the State (foreign realty excluded), with various exemptions
and graduations based on relationship of beneficiaries and amounts
received; as to estates of non-residents, the tax on the transfer to
the personal representative, respecting only local real and tangible
personal property, stock of New Jersey corporations and of national
banks located in the State, bears the same ratio to the entire tax
which would be imposed under the act if the decedent had been a
resident and all his property real and personal had been located
within the State, as such property within the State bears to the entire estate wherever situate, specific devises or bequests of property
within the State being excluded from this computation. Owing to

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the graduation and exemption features, this plan of apportionment,
in cases of certain large estates of non-residents, embracing large real
estate and other assets in other States, resulted in greater taxes
for the transfer of their property in New Jersey than would have
been assessed for transfer of an equal amount of property of a decedent dying resident in the State. Held, that such taxes did not
infringe the privileges and immunities provision of Article IV of the
Constitution; or the like provision, or the equal protection or due
process clauses, of the Fourteenth Amendment.
90 N. J. L. 707; 92 id. 514, affirmed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell and Mr. E. C. Lindley, with
whom Mr. William A. Smith was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
The plan of the last paragraph of § 12 of the taxing act,
which provides a method of assessing the tax on the transmission of non-resident estates, is designed to assess a
larger tax against such transmission than is provided by
§ 1 for the transmission of property of resident decedents. If this be denied, then, in the case of non-residents,
the act is designed to assess a tax on the transmission of
property situated without the State of New Jersey and
over which the State of New Jersey has no jurisdiction
for the purposes of taxation, and which is not transmitted
through the aid and assistance of any law of the State of
New Jersey.
By the imposition of the tax in question the Constitution of the United States is violated as follows:
(a) By the inclusion of real estate situate without the
State of New Jersey in the computation of the tax on the
transfer of a non-resident's estate, and the exclusion thereof
in the computation of the tax on the transfer of a resident's estate.
(b) By assessing on the entire estate of a non-resident
a tax figured at the graduated rates and then apportioning

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

250 U. S.

the tax according to the proportion of property situated in
New Jersey, the transfer of which is subject to a tax, to
the entire estate of decedent, instead of first apportioning
among those taking (and before figuring a tax on their
shares) the New Jersey property subject to a transfer tax
and then assessing the tax thereon.
(c) By deducting from the entire share of the non-resident decedent passing to the beneficiary the exemption of
each beneficiary in the non-resident's estate, instead of
making the deduction from each beneficiary's share in the
New Jersey assets. By the deduction of the amount of
exemption from his entire share, each beneficiary receives
only a proportion of the exemption.
The method of assessment provided for violates the
Federal Constitution for the following reasons:
(a) It taxes non-residents more than it does residents
and therefore gives to residents privileges and immunities
denied to non-residents. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168;
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Blake v. McClung, 172
U. S. 239; Corfield v. Coryell, 6 Fed. Cas. 546; Magill v.
Brown, 16 Fed. Cas. 408, 428; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163; State v. Betts, 24 N. J. L. 555, 557; Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Gaines, 3 Fed. Rep. 266, 278;
Tatem v. Wright, 23 N. J. L. 429; Estate of Johnson, 139
California, 532; Estate of Mahoney, 133 California, 180;
Estate of Leland Stanford, 126 California, 112.
(b) It taxes the transfer of a non-resident's property
over which the State of New Jersey has no jurisdiction
while it expressly omits like property of residents, that is,
non-resident real estate, and thereby deprives the non-resident of his property without due process of law. International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135; Looney v.
Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Louisville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188
U. S. 385; Beers v. Edwards, 84 N. J. L. 32; Carr v. Edwards, 84 N. J. L. 667.

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

(c) It provides for a tax which bears unequally and
therefore is not imposed upon a uniform rule and it therefore denies to non-residents the equal protection of the
laws. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
283; Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Cotting v.Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; State v. Julow, 129
Missouri, 163; In re Van Home, 74 N. J. Eq. 600; Meehan
v. Board of Excise, 73 N. J. L. 382; Middleton v. Middleton, 54 N. J. Eq. 692.
The objections that the act taxes property beyond the
State and is laid unequally undoubtedly may avail the
executors and beneficiaries on their own behalf as well as
on behalf of their decedents; but, independently, the Constitution protects the right to transmit property on death
against discrimination between resident and non-resident
decedents. The cases cited in the court below to the effect
that taxes of this kind are on the right to succeed and not
on the right to transmit did not turn on that contention
but on distinguishing between a property and a transfer
tax. Many cases might be cited which refer to the right
to transmit as well as to the right to succeed. See Howell
v. Edwards, 88 N. J. L. 134, quoting Neilson v. Russell,
76 N. J. L. 27; Attorney General v. Stone, 209 Massachusetts, 186; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, 628;
Paul v. Virginia, supra, 180; Brennan v. United Hatters,
73 N. J. L. 729, 742.
The right to transmit property on death is a property
right, and this right affects the value of the property to the
deceased in his lifetime. If the legislature might discriminate between resident and non-resident decedents and
limit the non-resident in his right to dispose of property
within the State on his death, or appropriate part or all,
surely the property would not be worth as much to him
as it would be worth to a resident.
If the State's contention is well founded, then there is
no federal constitutional provision insuring equality as

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

between resident and non-resident decedents, who are
citizens of States of the United States, other than the State
of New Jersey, in the right of equal application of the laws
of descent and transmission of property on death. This
court may well hesitate before confirming to the legislature any such arbitrary power.
This provision is nearly as important in keeping the
Union together as is the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution. The denial of its protection would permit
the state legislature to provide by law for appropriation,
on death, of the property of a non-resident citizen within
the State's jurisdiction, and to provide otherwise as to its
own residents.
The court will keep in mind the distinction between the
idea of the sovereignty of the State, under the Roman law
and that under the English law determined from the Bill
of Rights. Surely that which may be granted to aliens by
treaty (Mager v. Grima, 8 How. 490; Succession of Rixner,
48 La. Ann. 552), may not be denied to citizens. But the
right has not been claimed by any States other than California, and when claimed in that State has not been sustained. See Estate of Johnson, 239 California, 532.
Mr. John R. Hardin for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were argued and submitted together, involve the same constitutional questions, and may be disposed of in a single opinion. The attack is upon the inheritance tax law of the State of New Jersey, and is based
upon certain provisions of the Federal Constitution. The
statute has reference to the method of imposing inheritance taxes under the laws of the State. The constitutionality of the law upon both state and federal grounds was
upheld in the McDonald case by the Court of Errors and

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

Opinion of the Court.

Appeals, 90 N. J. L. 707. In the Hill case the judgment of
the Supreme Court of New Jersey (91 N. J. L. 454) was
affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals, 92 N. J. L.
514.
The statute under consideration is an act approved
April 9, 1914 (P. L. 1914, p. 267), being an amendment
to an act approved April 20, 1909 (P. L. 1909, p. 325), for
taxing the transfer of property of resident and non-resident
decedents by devise, bequest, descent, etc., in certain cases.
The 1909 act is found in 4 Comp. Stats. N. J., p. 5301, et
seg., the amendment in 1 Supp. Comp. Stats. N. J., pp.
1538-1542. The act of 1909, in its first section, imposed
a tax upon the transfer of any property, real and personal,
of the value of $500 or over, or of any interest therein or
income therefrom, in trust or otherwise, to persons or
corporations, including the following cases:
"First. When the transfer is by will or by the intestate
laws of this State from any person dying seized or
possessed of the property while a resident of the State.
"Second. When the transfer is by will or intestate law,
of property within the State, and the decedent was a nonresident of the State at the time of his death."
The taxes thus imposed were at the rate of 5 per cent.
upon the clear market value of the property, with exemptions not necessary to be specified, and were payable to the
treasurer for the use of the State of New Jersey.
And by § 12 it was provided that upon the transfer of
property in that State of a non-resident decedent, if all or
any part of the estate, wherever situated, passed to persons
or corporations who would have been taxable under the
act if the decedent had been a resident of the State, such
property located within the State was made subject to a
tax bearing the same ratio to the entire tax which the
estate of such decedent would have been subject to under
the act if the non-resident decedent had been a resident of
the State, as the property located in the State bore to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

entire estate of such non-resident decedent wherever
situated.
The act, having first been amended by an act approved
March 26, 1914 (P. L. 1914, p. 91), not necessary to be
recited, was again amended by the act approved April 9,
1914, which is now under consideration (P. L. 1914, p. 267;
1 Supp. Comp. Stats. N. J., pp. 1538-1542). Sections 1
and 12 were amended, the former by confining the tax on
the transfer of property within the State of non-resident
decedents to real estate, tangible personal property, and
shares of stock of New Jersey corporations and of national
banks located within the State; and by modifying the
former rate of 5 per centum upon the clear market value
of the property passing, which was subject to exemptions
in favor of churches and other charitable institutions, and
of parents, children; and other lineal descendants, etc.,
by making 5 per centum the applicable rate but subject to
numerous exceptions, and in the excepted cases imposing
different rates, dependent upon the relationship of the
beneficiary to the deceased and the amount of the property
transferred. Thus, "Property transferred to any child or
children, husband or wife, of a decedent, or to the issue
of any child or children of a decedent, shall be taxed at the
rate of one per centum on any amount in excess of five
thousand dollars, up to fifty thousand dollars; one and
one-half per centum on any amount in excess to [of] fifty
thousand dollars, up to one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars; two per centum on any amount in excess of one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars, up to two hundred and
fifty thousand dollars;and three per centum on any amount
in excess of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars."
The modified formula for computing the assessment
upon the transfer of the estate of a non-resident decedent,
prescribed in § 12 as amended by the act under consideration, is as follows:
"A tax shall be assessed on the transfer of property made

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

Opinion of the Court.

subject to tax as aforesaid, in this State of a nonresident
decedent if all or any part of the estate of such decedent,
wherever situated, shall pass to persons or corporations
taxable under this act, which tax shall bear the same ratio
to the entire tax which the said estate would have been
subject to under this act if such nonresident decedent had
been a resident of this State, and all his property, real and
personal, had been located within this State, as such taxable property within this State bears to the entire estate,
wherever situated; provided, that nothing in this clause
contained shall apply to a specific bequest or devise of any
property in this State."
An amendatory act, approved April 23, 1915 (P. L.
1915, p. 745; 1 Supp. Comp. Stats. N. J., p. 1542), repeated the provision last quoted, and made no change in
the act pertinent to the questions here presented.
It is this method of assessment in the case of non-resident decedents which is the subject-matter in controversy.
James McDonald died January 13, 1915, owning
stock in the Standard Oil Company, a New Jersey corporation, valued at $1,114,965, leaving an entire estate
of $3,969,333.25, which included some real estate in the
State of Idaho. Of the entire estate, $270,813.17 went to
pay debts and expenses of administration. Mr. McDonald was a citizen of the United States and a resident of the
District of Columbia, and left a will and a codicil which
were admitted to probate by the Supreme Court of that
District. The executors are Lawrence Maxwell, a citizen
of Ohio, and the Fulton Trust Company, a New York corporation. The principal beneficiaries under the will are
citizens and residents of States of the United States other
than the State of New Jersey. Under the will the wife
takes by specific legacies; the other beneficiaries are specific
and general legatees not related to the deceased and a son
and two grandchildren, who take the residuary estate.
James J. Hill died May 29, 1916, intestate, a resident

OCTO3ER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

and citizen of the State of Minnesota, leaving a widow and
nine children. Under the laws of Minnesota, the widow inherited one-third of the real estate and personal property,
and each of the children two-twenty-sevenths thereof.
The entire estate descending amounted to $53,814,762,
which included real estate located outside of New Jersey,
and principally in Minnesota and New York, valued at
$1,885,120. The only property the transfer of which was
subject to taxation in New Jersey was stock in the Northern Securities Company, a New Jersey corporation,
valued at $2,317,564.68. The debts and administration
expenses amounted to $757,571.20.
The amount of the assessment in the McDonald case was
$29,071.68. In the Hill case the tax assessed amounted to
$67,018.43. Following the statute, the tax was first ascertained on the entire estate as if it were the estate of a
resident of the State of New Jersey, with all the decedent's
property both real and personal located there; the tax was
then apportioned and assessed in the proportion that the
taxable New Jersey estate bore to the entire estate.
The thing complained of is, that applying the apportionment formula fixed by the statute, in the cases under
review, results in a greater tax on the transfer of property
of the estates subject to the jurisdiction of New Jersey
than would be assessed for the transfer of an equal amount,
in a similar manner, of property of a decedent who died a
resident of New Jersey. The cause of this inequality is
said to arise because of imposing the graduated tax, provided by the statute, upon estates so large as these. If a
resident, in the case of a wife or children, the first $5,000
of property is exempt, the next $45,000 is taxed at the rate
of 1%, the next $100,000 at the rate of 112%, the next
$100,000 at the rate of 2%, and the remainder at the rate
of 3%. The contention is, that applying the apportionment rule provided in the case of non-resident estates, a
larger amount of tax is assessed.

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

Opinion of the Court.

The correctness of the figures deduced from the application of the statute as made by the counsel for plaintiffs
in error is contested, but in our view the differences are
unimportant unless the State is bound to apply the same
rule to the transmission of both classes of estates.
Counsel for plaintiffs in error sum up their objections to
the statute, based on the Federal Constitution, as follows:
(1) It taxes the estates of non-residents more than those
of residents and therefore gives to residents privileges and
immunities denied to non-residents.
(2) It provides for a tax which bears unequally and
therefore is not imposed upon a uniform rule and it therefore denies to non-residents the equal protection of the laws.
(3) It taxes the transfer of a non-resident's property
over which the State of New Jersey has no jurisdiction
while it expressly omits like property of residents, that
is, real estate without the State, and thereby deprives the
non-resident of his property without due process of law.
Before taking up these objections it is necessary to
briefly consider the nature of the tax. In Carrv. Edwards,
84 N. J. L. 667, it was held by the New Jersey Court of
Errors and Appeals to be a tax upon the special right, the
creation of the statute, of an executor or administrator
of a non-resident decedent to succeed to property having
its situs in New Jersey. Of § 12, as it stood in the original
act of 1909, the court said: "That section contains nothing
to indicate that it is not the succession of the New Jersey
representative that is meant to be taxed. It is true that
the tax is not necessarily five per cent. upon the whole New
Jersey succession. The amount depends on the ratio of
the New Jersey property to the entire estate wherever situated. This, however, merely affords a measure of the
tax imposed; the tax is still by the very words of the section imposed upon the property located within this state.
The reason for adopting this provision was to make sure
that the rate of taxation in case of non-resident decedents

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

should equal but not exceed the rate imposed in the case
of resident decedents.
"In the case of the estates of non-resident decedents, it
is open for the law of the domicile to provide, as testators
sometimes do, that such taxes shall be a general charge
against the estate. Our legislature must be assumed to
have had in mind its lack of jurisdiction over legacies
under a non-resident's will, and in order to protect the New
Jersey executor, administrator or trustee who paid the tax,
authorized its deduction from 'property for distribution.'
This phrase suffices to reach not only a distributive share
of a resident's estate in case of intestacy, but the whole of
the New Jersey property of a non-resident when turned
over to the executor or administrator at the domicile of
the decedent. The provision for both cases-legacies and
property for distribution-demonstrates that the legislature did not mean to provide, as counsel contends, for a
legacy duty only."
This language correctly characterizes the nature and effect of the tax as imposed under the amendment of 1914;
but that act, under which the present cases arise, instead
of reaching "the whole of the New Jersey property of a
non-resident when turned over to the executor or administrator at the domicile of the decedent," now confines the
transfer tax upon the property of non-resident decedents to
real estate and tangible personal property within the
State, the stock of New Jersey corporations, and the stock
of national banks located within the State.
The tax is, then, one upon the transfer of property in
New Jersey, to be paid upon turning it over to the administrator or executor at the domicile of the decedent. That
transfers of this nature are within the taxing power of the
State, and that taxes may be assessed upon such rights
owing their existence to local laws, and to them alone, is
not disputed. The right to inherit property, or to receive
it under testamentary disposition, has been so frequently

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

Opinion of the Court.

held to be the creation of stautory law, that it is quite unnecessary to cite the decisions which have maintained the
principle. While this is confessedly true, the assessment
of such taxes is, of course, subject to applicable limitations
of the state and federal constitutions; it is with the latter
class only that this court has to do.
(1) Taking up, then, the objections raised under the
Federal Constitution, it is said that the law (a) denies to
citizens of other States the privileges and immunities
granted to citizens of the State of New Jersey, in violation
of par. 1, § 2, Art. IV, of the Federal Constitution, which
reads: "The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States;"
(b) abridges the privileges and immunities of plaintiffs in
error, the deceased persons whom they represent, and
those taking by will or intestacy under them, as citizens
of the United States, in contravention of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The provision quoted from Art. IV of the Constitution
was intended to prevent discrimination by the several
States against citizens of other States in respect of the
fundamental privileges of citizenship. As is said by
Judge Cooley in his Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed.,
p. 569: "It appears to be conceded that the Constitution
secures in each State to the citizens of all other States the
right to remove to, and carry on business therein; the
right by the usual modes to acquire and hold property, and
to protect and defend the same in the law; the right to the
usual remedies for the collection of debts and the enforcement of other personal rights; and the right to be exempt,
in property and person, from taxes or burdens which the
property, or persons, of citizens of the same State are not
subject to." Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180; Ward v.
Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430.
The Fourteenth Amendment recognized a distinction
between citizenship of the United States and citizenship

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 V. S.

of one of the States. It provides: "No State shall make
or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States." What those
privileges and immunities were was under consideration
in Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 72-79, where it was
shown (pp. 77-78) that it was not the purpose of this
Amendment, by the declaration that no State should make
or enforce any law which should abridge the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States, to transfer
from the States to the Federal Government the security
and protection of those civil rights that inhere in state
citizenship; and (p. 79) that the privileges and immunities
of citizens of the United States thereby placed beyond
abridgment by the States were those which owe their
existence to the Federal Government, its national character, its constitution, or its laws. To the same effect is
Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382.
We are unable to discover in the statute before us,
which regulates and taxes the right to succeed to property
in New Jersey upon the death of a non-resident owner,
any infringement of the rights of citizenship either of the
States or of the United States, secured by either of the
consitututional provisions referred to. We have held that
the protection that they afford to rights inherent in citizenship are not infringed by the taxation of the transfer
of property within the jurisdiction of a State passing by
will or intestacy where the decedent was a non-resident of
the taxing State, although the entire succession was taxed
in the State where he resided. Blackstone v. Miller, 188
U. S. 189, 207.
Upon this point it is unnecessary to decide whether the
case might not be rested on a much narrower ground. The
alleged discrimination, here complained of, so far as
privileges and immunities of citizenship are concerned,
is not strictly applicable to this statute because the
difference in the method of taxation rests upon residence

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE,
525.

Opinion of the Court.

and not upon citizenship. La Tourette v. McMaster, 248
U. S. 465.
(2) It is next contended that the effect of including the
property beyond the jurisdiction of the State in measuring
the tax, amounts to a deprivation of property without due
process of law because it in effect taxes property beyond
the jurisdiction of the State.
It is not to be disputed that, consistently with the
Federal Constitution, a State may not tax property beyond
its territorial jurisdiction, but the subject-matter here regulated is a privilege to succeed to property which is within
the jurisdiction of the State. When the State levies taxes
within its authority, property not in itself taxable by the
State may be used as a measure of the tax imposed. This
principle has been frequently declared by decisions of this
court. The previous cases were reviewed and the doctrine
applied in Kansas City, Fort Scott & Memphis Ry. Co. v.
Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 232. After deciding that the privilege tax, there involved, did not impose a burden upon
interstate commerce, this court held that it was not in
substance and effect a tax upon property beyond the
State's jurisdiction, although a large amount of the property, which was referred to as a measure of the assessment,
was situated outside of the State. In the present case the
State imposes a privilege tax, clearly within its authority,
and it has adopted as a measure of that tax the proportion
which the specified local property bears to the entire estate
of the decedent. That it may do so within limitations
which do not really make the tax one upon property beyond its jurisdiction, the decisions to which we have referred clearly establish. The transfer of certain property
within the State is taxed by a rule which considers the
entire estate in arriving at the amount of the tax. It is in
no just sense a tax upon the foreign property, real or personal. It is only in instances where the State exceeds its authority in imposing a tax upon a subject-matter within its

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

jurisdiction in such a way as to really amount to taxing
that which is beyond its authority, that such exercise of
power by the State is held void. In cases of that character the attempted taxation must fail. Looney v. Crane Co.,
245 U. S. 178; International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts,
246 U. S. 135. To say that to apply a different rule regulating succession to resident and non-resident decedents is
to levy a tax upon foreign estates, is to distort the statute
from its purpose to tax the privilege, which the statute
has created, into a property tax, and is unwarranted by
any purpose or effect of the enactment, as we view it.
(3) It is further contended that the tax bears so unequally upon non-residents as to deny to them the equal
protection of the laws.
The subject of taxes of this character was given full
consideration by this court in Magoun v. Illinois Trust &
Savings Bank, 170 U. S.283, in which case a graded. legacy
and inheritance tax law of the State of Illinois was sustained. The statute exempted all estates valued at less
than $20,000, if passing to near relations, or at less than
$500 if passing to those more remote, made the rate of tax
increasingly greater as the inheritances increased, and
assessed it differently according to the relationship of the
beneficiary to the testator or intestate. The statute was
attacked as void under the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, but was held to be valid. Of
this class of taxes the court said (p. 288): "They [inheritance taxes] are based upon two principles: 1. An inheritance tax is not one on property, but one on the succession.
2. The right to take property by devise or descent is the
creature of the law, and not a natural right-a privilege,
and therefore the authority which confers it may impose
conditions upon it. From these principles it is deduced
that the States may tax the privilege, discriminate between relatives, and between these and strangers, and
grant exemptions; and are not precluded from this power

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

Opinion of the Court.

by the provisions of the respective state constitutions
requiring uniformity and equality of taxation."
And upon examining (pp. 296, 297) the classification
upon which the provisions of the Illinois statute were
based, the court found there was no denial of the equal
protection of the laws either in discriminating between
those lineally and those collaterally related to decedent,
and those standing as strangers to the blood, or in increasing the proportionate burden of the tax progressively
as the amount of the benefit increased.
Equal protection of the laws requires equal operation
of the laws upon all persons in like circumstances. Under
the statute, in the present case, the graduated taxes are
levied equally upon all interests passing from non-resident
testators or intestates. The tax is not upon property, but
upon the privilege of succession, which the State may
grant or withhold. It may deny it to some and give it to
others. The State is dealing in this instance not with the
transfer of the entire estate, but only with certain classes
of property that are subject to the jurisdiction of the
State. It must find some rule which will adequately deal
with this situation. It has adopted that of the proportion
of the local estate in certain property to the entire estate
of the decedent. In making classification, which has been
uniformly held to be within the power of the State, inequalities necessarily arise, for some classes are reached,
and others omitted, but this has never been held to render
such statutes unconstitutional. Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S.
477. This principle has been recognized in a series of cases
in this court. Board of Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S.
553; Campbell v. California, 200 U. S. 87; Keeney v. New
York, 222 U. S. 525. It has been uniformly held that the
Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive the States of
the right to determine the limitations and restrictions
upon the right to inherit property, but "at the most can
only be held to restrain such an exercise of power as would

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

exclude the conception of judgment and discretion, and
which would be so obviously arbitrary and unreasonable
as to be beyond the pale of governmental authority."
Campbell v. California, 200 U. S. 95. In upholding the
validity of a graduated tax upon the transfer of personal
property, to take effect upon the grantor's death, we said
in Keeney v. New York, supra, p. 535: "The validity of
the tax must be determined by the laws of New York. The
Fourteenth Amendment does not diminish the taxing
power of the State, but only requires that in its exercise
the citizen must be afforded an opportunity to be heard
on all questions of liability and value, and shall not, by
arbitrary and discriminatory provisions, be denied equal
protection. It does not deprive the State of the power to
select the subjects of taxation. But it does not follow that
because it can tax any transfer (Hatch v. Reardon, 204
U. S. 152, 159), that it must tax all transfers, or that all
must be treated alike."
In order to invalidate this tax it must be held that the
difference in the manner of assessing transmission of property by testators or intestates, as between resident and
non-resident decedents, is so wholly arbitrary and unreasonable as to be beyond the legitimate authority of the
State. We are not prepared so to declare. The resident
testator or intestate stands in a different relation to the
State than does the non-resident. The resident's property
is usually within the ready control of the State, and easily
open to inspection and discovery for taxation purposes, by
means quite different from those afforded in cases of local
holdings of non-resident testators or intestates. As to the
resident, his entire intangible, and usually most of his
tangible property, pay tribute to the State when transferred by will or intestacy; the transfer of the non-resident's
estate is taxed only so far as his estate is located within the
jurisdiction and only so far as it comes within the description of "real property within this State, or of goods, wares,

MAXWELL v. BUGBEE.
525.

HoLMEs, J., dissenting.

and merchandise within this State, or of shares of stock of
corporations of this State, or of national banking associations located in this State." Simple contract debts owing
by New Jersey debtors to non-residents and some other
kinds of property of non-residents are exempt, although it
is settled that, for the purpose of founding administration,
simple contract debts are assets at the domicile of the
debtor; Wyman v. Halstead, 109 U. S.654, 656; and that
the State of the debtor's domicile may impose a succession
tax; Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.189, 205; Baker v. Baker,
Eccles & Co., 242 U. S.394, 401.
The question of equal protection must be decided as
between resident and non-resident decedents as classes,
rather than by the incidence of the tax upon the particular
estates whose representatives are here complaining. Absolute equality is impracticable in taxation, and is not
required by the equal protection clause. And inequalities that result not from hostile discrimination, but occasionally and incidentally in the application of a sy stem that
is not arbitrary in its classification, are not sufficient to
defeat the law.
In our opinion, there are substantial differences which
within the rules settled by this court permit the classification which has been accomplished by this statute. St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350,
367, and cases cited.
Finding no error in the judgments of the Court of Errors
and Appeals of the State of New Jersey, the same are
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE HoLMEs dissenting.
Many things that a legislature may do if it does them
with no ulterior purpose, it cannot do as a means to reach
what is beyond its constitutional power. That I understand to be the principle of Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Kansas; Pullman Company v. Kansas, and other cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

in 216 U. S. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247
U. S. 105, 114. New Jersey cannot tax the property of
Hill or McDonald outside the State and cannot use her
power over property within it to accomplish by indirection
what she cannot do directly. It seems to me that that is
what she is trying to do and therefore that the judgments
of the Court of Errors and Appeals should be reversed.
It seems to me that when property outside the State is
taken into account for the purpose of increasing the tax
upon property within it, the property outside is taxed in
effect, no matter what form of words may be used. It
appears to me that this cannot be done, even if it should
be done in such a way as to secure equality between residents in New Jersey and those in other States.
New Jersey could not deny to residents in other States
the right to take legacies which it granted to its own citizens, and therefore its power to prohibit all legacies cannot be invoked in aid of a principle that affects the foreign
residents alone. In Kansas City, Fort Scott & Memphis
Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 235, the State could have
refused incorporation altogether and therefore could impose the carefully limited condition that was upheld.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VANDEVANTER and
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concur in the opinion that I

express.

