OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

ary is a matter which we shall leave in the first instance
to a commission of three competent persons to be named
by the court upon suggestion of counsel, as was done in
Arkansas v. Tennessee. See 247 U. S. 461. This commission will have before it the record in this case, and
such further proofs as it may be authorized to receive
by an interlocutory decree to be entered in the case.
Counsel may prepare and submit the form of such decree.

BALL ENGINEERING COMPANY v. J. G. WHITE
& COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 227. Argued March 13, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.
A provision in a construction contract that in case of annulment
"the United States all have the right to take possession of, wherever
they may be, and to retain all materials, tools, buildings, tramways, cars, etc., or any part or parts of same prepared for use or in
use in the prosecution of the work,

.

.

.

under purchase, at

a valuation to be determined by the Engineer Officer in charge,"
held not applicable, in invitum, to property belonging to, and
which had been used in the construction by, a third party. P. 54.
Upon annulment of a construction contract, the Government retained
certain property, on the site, which belonged to a third party who
had been doing the work, and, with knowledge of his claim and
without his consent, valued it, credited the defaulting contractor
accordingly, and leased or disposed of it to a new contractor, at
the latter's request, for the completion of the work, upon the understanding that the United States did not undertake to transfer title,
nor guarantee peaceable possession, etc., and would not be responsible for the expense or cost of any action against the new contractor
nor subject itself to any claim on account of the seizure. Held,
that no contractual liability could be implied against the United

BALL ENGINEERING CO. v. WHITE & CO.
46.

47

Argument for Petitioner.

States, and that the new contractor, having so taken and used the
property, was liable to its owner for the conversion. Id. United
States v. Buffalo Pitts Co., 234 U. S. 228, distinguished

241 Fed. Rep. 989, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William M. Parke and Mr. Charles D. Lockwood,
with whom Mr. Homer S. Cummings and Mr. S. L. Swarts
were on the brief, for petitioner:
The taking of the plaintiff's property by the officers of
the United States was not a taking under eminent domain,
but a proprietary taking under a doctrine of private law
which did not in any way rest upon the rights of the Government as sovereign and which, if correct in theory,
would have been equally available to any private citizen
under similar circumstances.
Since the taking was tortious, the plaintiff cannot recover the value from the Government. No title can be
acquired by a tortious taking.
Neither the plaintiff nor its predecessors in title ever
entered into any contractual relation which had the effect
of bringing their property within the operation of the
Government's contract with the Hubbard Building &
Realty Company, and therefore, no matter what construction be placed upon paragraph 33 of that contract
it could not affect the plaintiff's title to the property.
A right to "purchase" plaintiff's property could not
be exercised by seizing it and making payment to the
Hubbard Building & Realty Company.
The Government, in purporting to exercise its alleged
rights under paragraph 33, attempted to retain the plant
under lease. Since paragraph 33 did not permit the Government to retain property under lease but only to retain it under purchase, such an effort to lease was wholly
nugatory and did not vest any title, interest or right to
possession in the Government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Respondent.

250 U. S.

Mr. Harry W. Reynolds and Mr. J. Kemp Bartlett, with
whom Mr. Lewis Sperry was on the brief, for respondent:
The taking of the property by the officers of the United
States was a valid exercise of the power of eminent domain. Act March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1131; Act of April 24,
1888, 25 Stat. 94; United States v. Certain Lands in Narragansett, 145 Fed. Rep. 654, 657; Houck v. United States,
201 Fed. Rep. 867; United States v. Buffalo Pitts Co., 234
U. S. 228; United States v. Soci6tW Anonyme &c., 224 U. S.
309; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; United States
v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; s. c. 124 U. S. 581.
In all these cases, as well as in the case at bar, the
Government took property or rights that were needed by
it in the making of public improvements or in furtherance
of public welfare, but to which it asserted no title vested
in the Government prior to the taking. The government
engineers made no claim that the property in question
had become the Government's property. They asserted
that under the terms of the contract the Government had
the right to retain and use it in the completion of the
work and also to purchase it at a price to be determined
by the engineer officer in charge, but the purchase was
a mere incident, the important fact being the retention
for use in completing the work, of the property involved.
The United States had the right under the specifications to hold and use the property in the completion of
the work, and therefore the use by the respondent was
not tortious and does not render the respondent liable
to the petitioner for a conversion.
The petitioner can succeed solely upon the strength of
its own title and its right, if it had any, to the possession
of the property in June or July, 1910. That the petitioner
was not in either actual or constructive possession of the
property at that time or for a long time prior thereto
is clearly established. Section 33 of the specifications

BALL ENGINEERING CO. v. WHITE & CO.
46.

49

Argument for Respondent.

is carefully worded so as to include all the buildings,
materials, machinery, etc., or any part or parts of same
"prepared for use or in use in the prosecution of the work,"
whether the property of the contractor or otherwise. The
only limitation is to be found in the words "prepared for
use or in use in the prosecution of the work." The buildings, plant and materials assembled upon the work and
used by Mr. Ball and his firm were "prepared for use"
and were "used in the prosecution of the work."
If the important right reserved to the Government
by the contract and which, as section 33 shows, is reserved
in "the form of contract in use by the Engineer Department of the Army," can be lost by an arrangement between the nominal contractor and the contractor who
actually does the work, by which the one doing the work
is allowed to do it in the name and in the place and stead
of the nominal contractor, the consequence will be serious,
not alone to the Government, but also to all contractors
who are in competition for public work with any who
may contemplate the creation of a situation that will enable them to play fast and loose with the Government;
that is to continue with the work only so long as it is
profitable, and withdraw from it with their buildings,
plant and materials when it ceases to be advantageous
to them to continue. Mr. Ball had actual, or certainly
constructive, notice of the provisions of the section at the
time when the property was brought to the site. Among
other cases involving similar clauses in construction contracts, see: Tinker & Scott v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty
Co., 169 Fed. Rep. 211; Duplan Silk Co. v. Spencer, 115
Fed. Rep. 689; Hart v. Porthgain Harbour Co. [1903], 1
L. R. Ch. Div. 690, 696.
The provisions contained in section 33 of the specifications were inserted in the interest of the United States as a
security and guarantee that the work would be performed
to its completion, and as a protection against loss in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

event of abandonment of the work by the contractor or
anyone standing in the contractor's shoes.
It would be imposing a great hardship upon the respondent, to compel it to pay a second time for the
material, and an exorbitant sum, in addition to the rental
already paid by it to the Government, for the buildings
and plant that the Government authorized it to use. *
The Solicitor General, by leave of court, filed a brief
on behalf of the United States as amicus curice:
Where the case is not founded on the Constitution of
the United States or a law thereof, or a regulation of an
executive department, no recovery can be had if the case
be one sounding in tort. United States v. Buffalo Pitts
Co., 193 Fed. Rep. 905, 908, 909; 234 U. S. 228, 232;
Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222; United States v.
Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 474; White & Co. v. Ball Engineering
Co., 223 Fed. Rep. 618, 620; United States v. Emery, Bird,
Thayer Realty Co., 237 U. S. 28, 32; Russell v. United
States, 182 U. S. 516, 530, 535; Peabody v. United States,
231 U. S. 530, 539; Harley v. United States, 198 U. S.
229, 234; Juragua Iron Co. v. United States, 212 U. S.
297, 309; Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, 303, 304; New
Orleans-Belize S. S. Co. v. United States, 239 U. S. 202,
206, 207; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121.
The claim of the Ball Engineering Company against
the United States, if any, does not arise under the Constitution, and, therefore, necessarily is a case sounding
in tort. Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S. 538, 539.
MR. JUsTIcE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Ball Engineering Company, a Missouri corporation,
brought this action against J. G. White & Company, Inc.,
a Connecticut corporation, in the United States District
Court for the District of Connecticut, for damages for

BALL ENGINEERING CO v. WHITE & CO.
46.

51

Opinion of the Court.

the alleged conversion of a contractor's plant and equipment, which was prepared for use in prosecuting the work
of constructing lock and dam No. 6, on the Trinity River,
in the State of Texas, and all of which, including buildings,
were located upon the site of the lock and dam at the time
of the alleged conversion. The action was tried before a
referee, designated under the Connecticut practice a
Committee. Two trials were had, the first resulting in a
judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the value of the converted property. 212 Fed. Rep. 1009. That judgment
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (223 Fed.
Rep. 618), and a new trial ordered which took place before
the same Committee, and upon the same evidence and the
same findings of fact, in order to conform to the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, judgment was rendered
in favor of the defendant, and this was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the authority of its prior
decision. 241 Fed. Rep. 989. The case is here upon writ
of certiorari.
The United States filed its brief amicus curice, contending that the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals to
the effect that the United States is liable under the Tucker
Act when property of a third person is taken by one of its
agents, under the circumstances disclosed, was erroneous.
The material facts are:
On July 10, 1906, the United States entered into a
contract with the Hubbard Building & Realty Company
to construct lock and dam No. 6 on the Trinity River,
Texas.
A partnership composed of George A. Carden and P. D.
C. Ball, known as the Ball Carden Company, in the year
1908 placed a considerable amount of property, consisting
of materials, machinery and tools, on the site of the lock
and dam No. 6, and used them in constructing the lock
and dam until the month of May, 1909.
This partnership was dissolved in April or May, 1909,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

and discontinued the work theretofore carried on by it in
the construction of the lock and dam. Carden transferred
all his interest to Ball, who, under the name of the Ball
Engineering Company, continued the work until on or
about September 8, 1909.
It does not appear under what circumstances the Ball
Carden Company or Ball operating as the Ball Engineering Company undertook the performance of the work.
On September 9, 1909, work upon said lock and dam
was abandoned; on October 22, 1909, the Government annulled the contract with the Hubbard Company, pursuant
to its provisions.
On April 2, 1910, the Ball Engineering Company was
organized under the laws of Missouri, and P. D. C. Ball
transferred to it all of the property mentioned in the complaint.
The United States entered into a contract with the
defendant J. G. White & Company on June 6, 1910, to
complete the construction of the lock and dam. Prior to
the making of the contract the defendant attempted,
without success, to agree with the Ball Company for the
purchase or rental of the personal property, etc., specified
in the complaint. On June 22, 1910, the Government
notified the defendant that the Hubbard Company had
been directed to move all property at lock and dam No. 6,
except certain specified items, and determined the valuation of the same at $11,578, and fixed a monthly rental of
$380 therefor from the Government to the defendant,
and also fixed a valuation upon the material, etc., at the
lock-site and notified the defendant to take such of it as
it deemed proper, at such valuations respectively. The
Ball Company refused to assent to either valuation. On
July 18, 1910, the defendant receipted to the United States
for the articles constituting the construction plant, and
for such of the materials as it was willing to and did receive. The property which the Government took from the

BALL ENGINEERING CO. v. WHITE & CO.
46.

53

Opinion of the Court.

Ball Engineering Company was valued by it at $11,578,
which amount was credited on account of the Hubbard
Company; but the United States neither paid, nor credited
the purchase price or rental of the property to the Ball
Company.
The United States professed to act under section 33 of
the contract with the Hubbard Company, which reads:
"Annulment.-In case of the annulment of this contract
as conditionally provided for in the form of contract
adopted and in use by the Engineer Department of the
Army, the United States shall have the right to take possession of, wherever they may be, and to retain all materials, tools, buildings, tramways, cars, etc., or any part
or parts of same prepared for use or in use in the prosecution of the work, together with any or all leases, rights of
way or quarry privileges, under purchase, at a valuation
to be determined by the Engineer Officer in charge."
The Government would not allow the Ball Company
to take possession of any of the property used in the construction of the lock and dam. This property the United
States leased to the defendant, who used the same in completing the work, and thereafter returned all of it to the
Government, except, of course, such material as had been
used in construction.
The Government inserted the following stipulation in
its contract with the J. G. White & Company, Inc., "If
so requested in writing by the contractor, the United
States will exercise the right conferred by paragraph 33
of the specifications forming part of the annulled contract with the Hubbard Building & Realty Company,
to take possession of and retain all materials, tools, buildings, tramways, cars, etc., or any part or parts of the same
prepared for use or in use in the prosecution of the work
at a valuation to be determined by the Engineer Officer in
charge, and the contractor for the completion of the work
will be permitted to use such plant and material in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

prosecution of the work, for which he will be charged a
fair rental or purchase value, to be determined by the
Engineer Officer in charge. It must, however, be clearly
understood that since the ownership of the above-mentioned plant and materials is not free from doubt, the
United States does not undertake to transfer title, does
not guarantee peaceable possession and uninterrupted use,
and will not defend any action or writ that may be instituted against the contractor concerning the same nor
be responsible for nor assume any expenses or costs in
connection therewith. Nothing that may result from the
exercise of the above-mentioned right shall be made the
basis of a claim against the United States or its officers or
agents."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, under the circumstances
here disclosed, rightly held that the Government had no
authority to take the property of the Ball Engineering
Company by virtue of anything contained in its contract
with the Hubbard Company. And further held that inasmuch as the Government took the property with the
knowledge that it was claimed by the Ball Company and
used it in the construction of public work, it was obliged
to make just compensation to the Ball Company by reason
of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. "It," says
the Court of Appeals, "made no proprietary claim, and
therefore was bound to pay the real owner for the property,
whether the taking was tortious or not. It fully recognized
this obligation by crediting the Hubbard Company with
the value. The fact that it recognized the wrong person
as owner and erroneously relied upon the contract with
the Hubbard Company, by which the plaintiff was not
bound, in no respect changed the material fact that it had
taken the property and acquired title thereto."
The findings show that the Government took possession by virtue of its contract with the Hubbard Company;
that it definitely advised White & Company that it would

BALL ENGINEERING CO. v. WHITE & CO.
46.

55

Opinion of the Court.

not be responsible for the seizure of the property, and that
anything which might result therefrom could not be the
basis for any claim against the United States, its officers
or agents. Under the circumstances disclosed the Circuit
Court of Appeals held the White Company not liable to
the Ball Engineering Company-upon the theory that
the Government had appropriated the property under
circumstances giving rise to an implied contract to pay the
Ball Engineering Company for it. This ruling was made
upon the authority of United States v. Buffalo Pitts Company, 193 Fed. Rep. 905, affirmed 234 U. S. 228. In that
case a suit was brought under the Tucker Act by the
Buffalo Pitts Company against the United States to recover for the value of the use of a certain engine for which,
it was alleged, the United States was under an implied
contract to pay. The findings of fact showed that the
Buffalo Pitts Company sold a traction engine to the
Taylor-Moore Construction Company, and took a chattel
mortgage to secure the payment of the purchase money.
The mortgage was duly recorded, and no part of the purchase money was paid. The engine was put into service
by the Taylor-Moore Company upon a reclamation project undertaken by the Interior Department, the work
being prosecuted under a contract between the United
States and the Taylor-Moore Construction Company.
The Construction Company defaulted in its work, and
assigned all of its interest in the contract to the United
States, and it took possession of all material, supplies and
equipment belonging to the Construction Company, including the engine in question. The Buffalo Pitts Company made demand upon the District Engineer of the
Reclamation Service for the possession of the engine and
appurtenances. But the demand was refused, and the
engine retained for use in the Government work. The
Buffalo Pitts Company notified the representative of the
United States of the execution and filing of its mortgage,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

and claimed the property. It was expressly found that
the Government had at all times known of the existence
of the mortgage, and did not dispute the validity thereof,
but represented to the Buffalo Pitts Company that it was
using and would continue to use the engine in its work,
that any legal proceedings to recover possession would
be resisted, and that if the property were left in the Government's possession its attorney would recommend payment therefor. It was further found that the Buffalo
Pitts Company relied upon these facts, and consented to
the Government retaining possession of its property-in
the expectation of receiving compensation from it therefor.
The claim was made that the United States was not liable
for tortious acts. This court reviewed former cases, and
said: "In the present case, as we have said, there is
nothing to show that the Government expected to use
the engine and appurtenances without compensation.
It did not dispute the mortgage, and the findings of
fact clearly show that if the Government had the right
to take the property, notwithstanding the mortgage interest which the plaintiff had in it, it made no claim of
right to take and use it without compensation as against
the prior outstanding mortgage, which distinctly reserved
the right to take and sell the property under the circumstances shown and which after the breach of condition
vested the right of possession and the right to convert
the property in the mortgagee."
It was further pointed out that the Government had
authority under an act of Congress to acquire any property
necessary for the purpose stated, and, if need be, to appropriate it. We held that the facts found brought the case
within the principles decided in former cases and made the
United States liable, not for a tortious act, but upon implied contract.
The subject was again reviewed by this court in a case
decided at this term, Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S.

BALL ENGINEERING CO. v. WHITE & CO.
46.

57

Opinion of the Court.

121, in which a suit was brought to recover the value of
submerged lands in the Chicago River appropriated by
the Government without the owner's consent. Former
decisions of this court were reviewed, and we said: "If
the plaintiff can recover, it must be upon an implied contract. For, under the Tucker Act, the consent of the
United States to be sued is (so far as here material) limited
to claims founded 'upon any contract, express or implied';
and a remedy for claims sounding in tort is expressly
denied. Bigby v. United States, 188 U. S. 400; Hijo v.
United States, 194 U. S. 315, 323. As stated in United
States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 462, 465: 'The law will
imply a promise to make the required compensation,
where property to which the government asserts no title,
is taken, pursuant to an act of Congress, as private property to be applied for public uses'; or in other words:
'Whenever in the exercise of its governmental rights it
takes property, the ownership of which it concedes to be
in an individual, it impliedly promises to pay therefor.'
But in the case at bar, both the pleadings and the facts
found preclude the implication of a promise to pay. For
the property applied to the public use is not and was not
conceded to be in the plaintiff."
In the case under consideration the United States did
not concede title in the Ball Engineering Company, but
took the property knowing of the claim of that Company
to its ownership, and credited its value upon the government contract with the Hubbard Company. The Government took this action upon request of the White Company,
and advised that it would not under any circumstances
be held liable for the seizure of the property. Under
these circumstances, the implication of a contract that the
United States would pay, which must be the basis of its
liability under the Fifth Amendment, is clearly rebutted.
The liability of the Government, if any, is in tort, for which
it has not consented to be sued. As the findings show that

OCTOBER TERM, t918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

the White Company, with knowledge of the facts, procured and used the property of the Ball Company it ought
to have been held liable to that Company. It follows that
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Reversed.

KENNY v. MILES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 179.

Argued January 24, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

Subject to the provisions as to certificates of competency, lands allotted as homestead and surplus respectively, under the Act of
June 28, 1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539, in the right of a deceased
Indian member of the Osage tribe, duly enrolled, and descending
to Indian heirs, likewise members duly enrolled, are subject to the
same restrictions on alienation as arc imposed upon lands allotted
to living members. P. 63. Levindale Lead Co. v. Coleman, 241
U. S. 432; Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448; and Skelton v.
Dill, 235 U. S. 206, distinguished.
Section 6 of the Act of April 18, 1912, c. 83, 37 Stat. 86, provides
that "the lands of deceased Osage allottees, unless the heirs agree
to partition the same, may be partitioned or sold upon proper order
of any court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the laws
of the State of Oklahoma: Provided, That no partition or sale of
the restricted lands of a deceased Osage allottee shall be valid until
approved by the Secretary of the Interior." Held: (1) That the
term "restricted lands" refers to the restrictions on alienation
imposed by Congress to protect the Indians from their own incompetency, (p. 61); and (2) that, in the absence of approval
by the Secretary, a judgment for partition or sale, in a suit brought
under this section in the state court respecting such lands, is inoperative, so that a finding of heirship, forming a part of it, is not
conclusive in other proceedings. P. 65.
162 Pac. Rep. 775, reversed.

