Oyflabus.

A

U°
(.

f perso0alrtlnbcy o
iok
The ciremtstance r4at th
wich plaintiff was subjectod werve simiave to i oie that
attended the work of twa, employees generally and of the
bridge workers themselves when off duty, while jnot without significance, is of little amnoent, rJhie significmt thing,
in our opinion, is tat he 9'as cf.mployed by defendant to
assist, and actually wa3 assistiug, the work of the bridge
carpenters by keep'nn their bed wad board close to their
place of work, thus renlering ; easier for defendant to
maintain a proper organaization of the bridge gang and
forwarding their work by reducing the time lost- in going
to and from their imeals and their lodging place. If, instead, he had brought their Tneals to them daily at the
bridge upon which they happened to be working, it hardly
would be questioned that his work in so doing was a part
of tlhehi.
What he was in facct doing was the same in
kind, and did not differ xmaterially in degree. Hence he
was employed, as they were, in interstate commerce,
within the meaning of the Employers' Liability Act.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
CEi ThIORARI TO Tr1E CIRCUIT COURT- OF APPEALS FOR THE

E IGHHII CIRCUIT.
No. 591. Argued March 4, 5, 1919.--Decided May 19, 1919.
Under the Allotment Act of February 8, 1887, § 5, e. 119, 24 Stat. 388,
the twenty-five year trust period, with the attendant restriction upon
the right of alienation, runs from the date of the trust patent, and
not from the date of the approval of the allotment by the Secretary
of the Interior; and an attem)i, to convey, made by an heir of the
allottee, within that period as extended by the President before it
expirationis void. P. 107.

252 Fed. Rep. 65, reversed.

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.

104.

Argument for Respondent.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor Generalfor the United States.
Mr. Mark Goode, with whom Mr. Hal Johnson and Mr.
Jesse D. Lydick were on the brief, for respondent, argued,
in part, as follows:
It is true that the provisional or trust patent did not
actually issue until February 6, 1892, or perhaps more
correctly speaking it was dated as of that date, but
it is likewise true that Stella Washington's right to a
preliminary patent vested on the instant her allotment
was approved. Her equitable title was then complete
and did not depend upon the delivery of the trust patent.
Ballinger v. Frost, 216 U. S. 240.
By the very terms of the approval the patent was
ordered issued positively and unequivocally. No reservation was made and no discretion was vested in any one
after that, and the duty to issue thereupon became purely
ministerial. Delay in issuing, or failure to issue such
patent thereafter could not postpone or defeat the vesting
of the equitable interest, nor could it postpone the beginning of the trust period. Not only did the approval of
the Secretary contain an absolute order for the issue;
but the act itself is mandatory. It reads: "That upon
the approval of the allotments provided for in this act
by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall cause patents
to issue therefor in the name of the allottees," etc. No
discretion is lodged anywhere with regard to issuance of
the trust patents.
It therefore follows that the trust began to run with the
approval. However, it makes no difference whether we
say the trust was created by the patent, for it would relate back to the approval; but we hardly think it can be
said that the trust is created by the patent for it might
well be that the issue of a patent in a given case could be

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

overlooked for years, and this has actually occurred, and
could it then be said that no trust was created because
someone forgot to write out and record the patent?
Stella Washington obtained a vested interest in the
land when her allotment was approved on September 16,
1891, and by operation of law the right to convey passed
to her heirs on September 16, 1916. Ballinger v. Frost,
216 U. S. 240; Simmons v. Wagner, 101 U. S. 260; Wood
v. Gleason, 43 Oklahoma, 9; Godfrey v. Iowa Land &
Trust Co., 21 Oklahoma, 293.
MR. JusTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit brought by the United States in behalf
of Claudius Tyner and ten other persons, heirs at law of
Stella Washington, deceased, who was a member of the
Absentee Shawnee Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma; its
object being to cancel a deed made by Tyner to Suda
Reynolds on February 17, 1917, purporting to convey
an undivided eleventh interest in a tract of land inherited
by the eleven heirs from Stella Washington, who was the
allottee thereof. The legal title to the tract was held by
the United States under a certificate of allotment or
"trust patent," dated February 6, 1892, containing a provision that the United States did and would hold the land
in question in trust for the said Stella and in case of her
death for her heirs, for a period of twenty-five years, at
the expiration of which time the United States would
convey the same by patent in fee, discharged of the
trust, to said Indian or her heirs, unless the trust period
had been extended by the President of the United
States.
The allotment was made under the provisions of the
Act of Congress approved February 8, 1887, c. 119, 24
Stat. 388, as amended by Act of March 3, 1891, c. 543,

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
104.

Opinion of the Court.

26 Stat. 989, 1019. Section 5 of the Act of 1887 provided:
"That upon the approval of the allotments provided for in
this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall cause
patents to issue therefor in the name of the allottees,
which patents shall be of the legal effect, and declare that
the United States does and will hold the land thus allotted,
for the period of twenty-five years, in trust for tlhe sole
use and benefit of the Indian to whom such allotment
shall have been made, or, in case of his decease, of his
heirs according to the laws of the State or Territory
where such land is located, and that at the expiration of
said period the United States will convey the same by
patent to said Indian, or his heirs as aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said trust and free of all charge or incumbrance
whatsoever: Provided, That the President of the United
States may in any case in his discretion extend the period.
And if any conveyance shall be made of the lands set
apart and allotted as herein provided, or any contract
made touching the same, before the expiration of the
time above mentioned, such conveyance or contract
shall be absolutely null and void."
Stella Washington's allotment was approved by the
Secretary September 16, 1891; the allotment certificate
or trust patent was issued on February 6, 1892. On November 24, 1916, the President by executive order extended the trust period for ten years. Thereafter, on
February 17, 1917, Tyner executed the deed in question
to Suda Reynolds.
The first question presented by the record is whether
the original trust period extended for twenty-five years
from February 6, 1892, the date of the trust patent, or
from September 16, 1891, the date of the approval of
the allotment. If the former, there is no question that
the executive order, being made within the original trust
period, was valid (subject to an objection as to its form),
and had the effect of extending the trust, with resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

restriction upon the right of alienation, for the further
period of ten years. If, on the other hand, the original
trust period should be dated from the approval of the
allotment, it still is insisted by the Government that the
right of the President to extend the trust period continued
beyond the twenty-five years and until the United States
surrendered its trust by conveying the absolute fee simple
title to the Indian allottee or his heirs.
The District Court sustained the contention of the
United States and entered a decree canceling Tyner's
deed as void and constituting a cloud upon its title. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this decree and directed
a dismissal of the bill. 252 Fed. Rep. 65.
The latter decision rests upon the ground that under
§ 5 of the allotment act the right of the allottee to a preliminary or trust patent became absolute upon the approval of the allotment by the Secretary of the Interior;
that her equitable title was then complete, and did not
depend upon the delivery of the patent. Ballinger v.
Frost, 216 U. S. 240, was cited in support of this; but it is
not entirely apposite. That case turned upon the effect
of a certificate of allotment issued under the Choctaw
and Chickasaw Agreement (Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1362,
32 Stat. 641, 644), the 23d section of which declared that
such certificate should be "conclusive evidence of the
right of any allottee to the tract of land described therein."
The Indian, being a citizen and resident of the Choctaw
Nation duly enrolled and entitled to an allottment,
selected as such the land in controversy, upon which were
her buildings and improvements; this was received by
the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes, and, after
the expiration of nine months, the time prescribed by
statute for contest, no contest of her right to the designated allotment having been made, a certificate was
issued and delivered to her. This court held the allottee's rights had become fixed, the Secretary of the In-

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.

104.

Opinion of the Court.

terior thereafter having nothing but the ministerial duty
to perform of seeing that a patent was duly executed and
delivered, and upon this ground sustained a judgment
awarding a writ of mandamus; citing Barney v. Dolph,
97 U. S. 652, 656; Simmons v. Wagner, 101 U. S. 260, 261;
Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, 461; Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, 383; and other cases.
The rule established by these cases is familiar. But
we do not think it can be applied so as to give finality
to the act of the Secretary in approving the allotment
under § 5 of the Act of 1887. Nor does that act contain
any such declaration of conclusive effect as is found in
§ 23 of the Choctaw-Chickasaw Agreement. While the
matter is not free from doubt, we have reached the conclusion that by the better construction the trust period
begins and dates from the issuance of the trust patent
and not from the approval of the allotment. The Department distinctly so ruled in Klamath Allotments, 38
L. D. 559, 561, where it was said, after quoting the pertinent language of § 5 of the Act of 1887: "Clearly no
trust is declared until actual issuance of patent, and the
use of a word of the present tense, 'does,' shows that the
trust period begins to run only upon such issuance."
This ruling was made in the year 1910, and may be inconsistent with some previous rulings of the Department,
as counsel for respondent insists that it is. Nevertheless
it is entitled to weight as an administrative interpretation of the act; it comports with our impression of the
natural meaning of the language employed by Congress;
and it very probably was relied upon by the President
when promulgating the order of November 24, 1916,
extending the trust period. This order might as well
have been made a few months earlier, had it been supposed that the 25-year period was to expire in September.
This construction of the Act of 1887 puts it in agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

ment with other acts for the allotment of Indian lands,1
which, while subsequently passed and perhaps not strictly
to be regarded as a legislative interpretation, nevertheless
seem to us to indicate the effect that Congress attributed
to the Act of 1887.
Some criticism is made by counsel for respondent upon
the form of the executive order of November 24, 1916, as
being indefinite and not in accordance with the act of
Congress. We deem this criticism unfounded, and need
spend no time upon it.
Calculating the 25-year period from February 6, 1892,
the date of trust patent for the Stella Washington allotment, it expired on February 5, 1917; but the trust was
extended for a further term of ten years, and hence the
deed made by Claudius Tyner to Suda Reynolds February
I Act of March 2, 1889, c. 422, 25 Stat. 1013, 1014, providing for allotments to Peorias and Miamis, contains this provision: "The land
so allotted shall not be subject to alienation for twenty-five years from
the date of the issuance of patent therefor."
Act of March 2, 1895, c. 188, 28 Stat. 876, 907, (the Quapaw Act)
contains this: "Provided, That said allotments shall be inalienable
for a period of twenty-five years from and after the date of said
patents."
Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, 642, (Choctaw-Chickasaw
Act) contains the following:
(Sec. 12, relating to homesteads.) "Shall be inalienable during the
lifetime of the allottee, not exceeding twenty-one years from the date
of certificate of allotment."
(See. 13.) "The allotment of each Choctaw and Chickasaw freedman shall be inalienable during the lifetime of the allottee, not exceeding twenty-one years from the date of certificate of allotment."
(See. 16.) "All lands allotted to the members of said tribes, except
such land as is set aside to each for a homestead as herein provided,
shall be alienable after issuance of patent as follows: One-fourth in
acreage in one year, one-fourth in acreage in three years, and the balance in five years; in each case from date of patent."
Cherokee Allotment Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32 Stat. 716?
contains similar language in §§ 13 and 15.

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
104.

Opinion of the Court.

17, 1917, was null and void by the terms of § 5 of the Act
of 1887.
As the President's order was made within the original
25-year period, it is unnecessary to consider whether he
might have acted with like effect at a later time.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the District Court is affirmed.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY & GUARANTY COMPANY v. STATE OF OKLAHOMA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 304.

Argued April 17, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

The court has no jurisdiction on error, under Jud. Code, § 237, as
amended, on the ground that a state law was sustained against a
claim that it impaired the obligation of a prior contract, where the
state court appears to have rested its judgment, reasonably, on
earlier laws and decisions, without any application of the law in
question.
Writ of error to review 168 Pac. Rep. 234, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. B. Ames for plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. L. Stuart, with whom Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, and Mr. W. A.
Ledbetter were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
May 18, 1909, plaintiff in error became surety upon a
bond to secure repayment of, funds to be deposited by

