BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
269.

Syllabus.

and, if it be not a proceeding for enforcement of a penalty
or forfeiture incurred under a law of the United States
within the meaning of the 9th subdivision of § 24, Judicial Code, the Act of 1888 itself confers jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
TEMPLETON v. UNITED STATES.
PHILLIPS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
TEMPLETON v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
PHILLIPS v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 763-768.

Argued January 28, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

ft is the duty of this court to refrain from passing upon the constitutionality of an act of Congress when the interests of the party attacking it do not entitle him to raise the question. P. 278.
Held, that witnesses subpoenaed in a grand jury investigation of possible violations of the Corrupt Practices Act of June 25, 1910, as
amended, and of possible perjury in connection therewith, had no
standing to question the power of Congress, under Art. I, § 4, of the
Constitution, to enact provisions for regulation and control of primary elections of candidates for the office of United States Senator.
P. 279.
Under the Fifth Amendment and the legislation of Congress, a federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error and Appellants.

250 U. S.

grand jury has a broad power of investigation and inquisition; the
scope of its inquiries is not to be narrowly limited by questions of
propriety or forecasts of probable results; the examination of witnesses need not be preceded by a formal charge against a particular
individual; and witnesses, duly subpoenaed, must attend and answer
the questions propounded in the inquiry, subject to the right to be
protected from self-incrimination, and excluding matters specially
privileged by law. P. 281.
A witness summoned to give testimony before a grand jury in the
District Court is not entitled to refuse to answer, when ordered by
the court, upon the ground that the court and jury are without jurisdiction over the supposed offense under investigation. P. 282.
253 Fed. Rep. 800, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Martin W. Littleton, with whom Mr. Owen N.
Brown was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error and appellants, in support of the proposition that Congress has no
power to regulate and control primary elections for
candidates for the office of United States Senator, cited:
United States v. Anthony, 11 Blatchf. 200, 205; United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; Minor v. Happersett,
21 Wall. 162; Black, Constitutional Law, 145; United
States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476, 481; United States v.
O'Toole, 236 Fed. Rep. 993; Hamilton, Federalist, Essay
59, p. 448; Luther Martin's "Genuine Information,"
Farrand's Records of Federal Convention, vol. 3, pp.
194, 195; Rufus King, in Massachusetts Convention,
id., p. 267; James Madison, in Virginia Convention, id.,
pp. 311, 319; William R. Davie, in North Carolina Convention, id., pp. 344, 345; Roger Sherman, in House of
Representatives, id., p. 359. Also, Ledgerwood v. Pitts,
122 Tennessee, 570; State v. Simmons, 117 Arkansas,
159; Montgomery v. Chelf, 118 Kentucky, 766; Hager v.
Robinson, 154 Kentucky, 489; State ex rel. Von Stade v.
Taylor, 220 Missouri, 618; State v. Nichols, 50 Washington, 508; Gray v. Seitz, 162 Indiana, 1; Kelso v. Cook,

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
273.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error and Appellants.

184 Indiana, 173; State v. Erickson, 119 Minnesota, 152;
Leu v. Montgomery, 31 N. Dak. 1; State v. Michel, 121
Louisiana, 374; Riter v. Douglass, 32 Nevada, 400.
If the Federal Corrupt Practices Act is unconstitutional so far as it relates to primary elections, then neither
the United States district court nor the grand jury had
jurisdiction to inquire into primary elections, or to indict or try anyone for any offense based on the unconstitutional provisions of the statute, and therefore the
order committing appellants is null and void. The federal grand jury is merely an accessory to the criminal
jurisdiction of the United States district court, as the
power and authority of that court in criminal matters
can be exercised only through the instrumentality of
the grand jury. See opinion of Chief Justice Marshall,
in United States v. Hill, 1 Brock. 156, 160.
It appears affirmatively from the record in this case
that the subject-matter which the grand jury was investigating related to the verification of a financial statement on the subject of primary elections, made pursuant
to the requirements of the Corrupt Practices Act--a
subject-matter that could not, under any circumstances,
constitute a crime cognizable by the United States district court for the Southern District of New York or by
any other United States court. The federal grand jury
can investigate only crimes cognizable by the United
States district court. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43,
65. It could no more investigate perjury committed
under such circumstances than it could investigate the
crime of murder committed in violation of the laws of
the State of New York. The entire proceedings were
coram non judice. In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 242; People
v. Knatt, 156 N. Y. 302, 307; Norton v. Shelby County,
118 U. S. 425, 442; Chicago, Indianapolis & L. Ry. Co.
v. Hackett, 228 U. S. 560, 566; Hurtado v. California,
110 U. S. 536; Huntington v. Worthen, 120 U. S. 101;

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S.
200; Holman v. Mayor of Austin, 34 Texas, 668; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447,
479.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Porter, with whom
Mr. W. C. Herron and Mr. H. S. Ridgely were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Three of these cases come here on writs of error, the
other three on appeals. The writs bring up final orders
adjudging plaintiffs in error guilty of contempt of court
because of their refusal to obey an order directing them
to answer certain questions asked of them before a federal grand jury, and committing them to the custody of
the United States marshal until they should comply.
The appeals bring under review final orders discharging
writs of habeas corpus sued out by appellants to review
their detention under the original orders of commitment
and remanding them to the custody of the marshal.
Blair, Templeton, and Phillips are plaintiffs in error, as
well as appellants.
It appears that in October, 1918, the federal grand
jury of the Southern District of New York was making
inquiry concerning supposed violations of § 125 of the
Criminal Code (relating to perjury) and of the so-called
Corrupt Practices Act of June 25, 1910, c. 392, 36 Stat.
822, as amended, in connection with the verification and
filing in that district of reports to the Secretary of the
Senate of the United States made by a candidate for
nomination as Senator at a primary election held in the
State of Michigan on August 27, 1918. Phillips was
served with a subpcena requiring him to appear and
testify before this grand jury. Blair and Templeton

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
273.

Opinion of the Court.

were subpoenaed to appear and testify and also to produce certain records, correspondence, and other documentary evidence. All were served in the State of Michigan. They appeared before the grand jury in response
to the subpoenas, were severally sworn, and were examined by counsel for the United States. Each witness,
after answering preliminary questions, asked that he be
informed of the object and purpose of the inquiry and
against whom it was directed, whereupon he was informed
by counsel for the United States that the inquiry was
not directed against him (the witness). After this each
witness read to and left with the grand jury a typewritten
statement to the effect that upon advice of counsel he
refused to answer any questions pertaining to the matter
under inquiry, for the reason that the grand jury and the
court were without jurisdiction to inquire into the con-.
duct of a campaign in Michigan for the primary election
of a United States Senator; that the Federal Corrupt
Practices Act as amended was unconstitutional; and
that no federal court or grand jury in any State had constitutional authority to conduct an inquiry regarding a
primary election for United States Senator. Thereupon
each witness was asked by counsel for the United States
whether he refused to testify for the reason that to do
so would incriminate him, to which he made no other
answer than to refer to the reasons for his refusal as set
forth in his statement.
The grand jury made a written presentment of these
facts to the district court, with a prayer that the parties
named might be dealt with as contumacious witnesses.
Upon the coming in of the presentment the witnesses
appeared in person and by counsel in opposition to the
petition of the grand jury and contended that the Corrupt
Practices Act as amended was unconstitutional and void,
referring to the opinion of this court in United States v.
Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476, 487. A hearing was had which

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

went to the merits; the minutes of the grand jury were
read and made a part of the presentment; and the matter
was fully argued. At the conclusion of the hearing the
court directed the witnesses to answer the questions
propounded to them before the grand jury. They were
again called, were asked the same questions, and again
refused to answer for the same reasons before assigned.
The grand jury immediately made a further presentment, whereupon the court, after hearing the parties,
adjudged appellants guilty of contempt because of their
refusal to comply with the order of the court, and remanded them to the custody of the marshal until they
should comply.
Being in his custody, each of them presented to the
district court a petition for a writ of habeas corpuS; the
writ was allowed, returnable forthwith; and the United
States district attorney, in behalf of the marshal, made
a motion to dismiss the writ, in effect a demurrer to the
petition for insufficiency. After hearing, the court discharged the writ and remanded each of the petitioners
to the custody of the marshal (253 Fed. Rep. 800); and
the present writs of error and appeals were allowed.
The principal contention is that the Act of June 25,
1910, c. 392, 36 Stat. 822, and its amendments (Act of
August 19, 1911, c. 33, 37 Stat. 25; Act of August 23,
1912, c. 349, 37 Stat. 360) are unconstitutional in'so far
as they attempt to regulate and control the selection by
political parties at primary elections of candidates for
United States Senator to be voted for at the general
elections; it being insisted that the authority of Congress
under § 4 of Art. I of the Constitution extends only to
the definitive general election and not to pre~lection
arrangements or devices such as nominating conventions
and primaries.
It is maintained further that, because of the invalidity
of these statutes, neither the United States district court

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
273.

Opinion of the Court.

nor the federal grand jury has jurisdiction to inquire into
primary elections or to indict or try any person for an
offense based upon the statutes, and therefore the order
committing appellants is null and void.
The same constitutional question was stirred in United
States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476, 487, but its determination was unnecessary for the decision of the case, and for
this reason it was left undetermined, as the opinion
states. Considerations of propriety, as well as longestablished practice, demand that we refrain from passing
upon the constitutionality of an act of Congress unless
obliged to do so in the proper performance of our judicial
function, when the question is raised by a party whose
interests entitle him to raise it.
We do not think the present parties are so entitled,
since a brief consideration of the relation of a witness to
the proceeding in which he is called will suffice to show
that he is not interested to challenge the jurisdiction of
court or grand jury over the subject-matter that is under
inquiry.
Long before the separation of the American Colonies
from the mother country, compulsion of witnesses to
appear and testify had become established in England.
By Act of 5 Eliz., c. 9, § 12 (1562), provision was made
for the service of process out of any court of record requiring the person served to testify concerning any cause
or matter pending in the court, under a penalty of ten
pounds besides damages to be recovered by the party
aggrieved. See Havithbury v. Harvey, Cro. Eliz. 130; 1
Leon. 122; Goodwin (or Goodman) v. West, Cro. Car.
522, 540; March, 18. When it was that grand juries
first resorted to compulsory process for witnesses is not
clear. But as early as 1612, in the Countess of Shrewsbury's case, Lord Bacon is reported to have declared
that "all subjects, without distinction of degrees, owe
to the King tribute and service, not only of their deed

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

and hand, but of their knowledge and discovery." 2
How. St. Tr. 769, 778. And by Act of 7 & 8 Wm.III,
c. 3, § 7 (1695), parties indicted for treason or misprision
of treason were given the like process to compel their
witnesses to appear as was usually granted to compel
witnesses to appear against them; clearly evincing that
process for crown witnesses was already in familiar use.
At the foundation of our Federal Government the
inquisitorial function of the grand jury and the compulsion of witnesses were recognized as incidents of the
judicial power of the United States. By the Fifth Amendnent a presentment or indictment by grand jury was
made essential to hold one to answer for a capital or
otherwise infamous crime, and it was declared that no
person should be compelled in a criminal case to- be a
witness against himself; while, by the Sixth Amendment,
in all criminal prosecutions the accused was given the
right to a speedy and public trial, with compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor. By the first
Judiciary Act (September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 30, 1 Stat.
73, 88), the mode of proof by examination of witnesses
in the courts of the United States was regulated, and
their duty to appear and testify was recognized. These
provisions, as modified by subsequent legislation, are
found in §§ 861-865, Rev. Stats. By Act of March 2,
1793, c. 22, § 6, 1 Stat. 333, 335, it was enacted that
subpoenas for witnesses required to attend a court of the
United States in any district might run into any other
district, with a proviso limiting the effect of this in civil
causes so that witnesses living outside of the district in
which the court was held need not attend beyond a limited distance from the place of their residence. See § 876,
Rev. Stats. By § 877, originating in Act of February 26,
1853, c. 80, § 3, 10 Stat. 161, 169, witnesses required to
attend any term of the district court on the part of the
United States may be subpoenaed to attend to testify

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
273.

Opinion of the Court.

generally; and under such process they shall appear before the grand or petit jury, or both, as required by the
court or the district attorney. By the same Act of 1853
(10 Stat. 167, 168), fees for the attendance and mileage
of witnesses were regulated; and it was provided that
where the United States was a party the marshal on the
order of the court should pay such fees. Rev. Stats.,
§§ 848, 855. And §§ 879 and 881, Rev. Stats., contain
provisions for requiring witnesses in criminal proceedings
to give recognizance for their appearance to testify, and
for detaining them in prison in default of such recognizance.
In all of these provisions, as in the general law upon
the subject, it is clearly recognized that the giving of
testimony and the attendance upon court or grand jury
in order to testify are public duties which every person
within the jurisdiction of the Government is bound to
perform upon being properly summoned, and for performance of which he is entitled to no further compensation than that which the statutes provide. The personal
sacrifice involved is a part of the necessary contribution
of the individual to the welfare of the public. The duty,
so onerous at times, yet so necessary to the administration of justice according to the forms and modes established in our system of government (Wilson v. United
States, 221 U. S. 361, 372, quoting Lord Ellenborough),
is subject to mitigation in exceptional circumstances;
there is a constitutional exemption from being compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against oneself, entitling the witness to be excused from answering anything
that will tend to incriminate him (see Brown v. Walker,
161 U. S. 591); some confidential matters are shielded
from considerations of policy, and perhaps in other cases
for special reasons a witness may be excused from telling
all that he knows.
But, aside from exceptions and qualifications-and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

none such is asserted in the present case--the witness is
bound not only to attend but to tell what he knows in
answer to questions framed for the purpose of bringing
out the truth of the matter under inquiry.
He is not entitled to urge objections of incompetency
or irrelevancy, such as a party might raise, for this is no
concern of his. Nelson v. United States, 201 U. S. 92,
115.
On familiar principles, he is not entitled to challenge
the authority of the court or of the grand jury, provided
they have a de facto existence and organization.
He is not entitled to set limits to the investigation that
the grand jury may conduct. The Fifth Amendment
and the statutes relative to the organization of grand
juries recognize such a jury as being possessed of the
same powers that pertained to its British prototype, and
in our system examination of witnesses by a grand jury
need not be preceded by a formal charge against a particular individual. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 65. It
is a grand inquest, a body with powers of investigation
and inquisition, the scope of whose inquiries is not to be
limited narrowly by questions of propriety or forecasts
of the probable result of the investigation, or by doubts
whether any particular individual will be found properly
subject to an accusation of crime. As has been said
before, the identity of the offender, and the precise nature of the offense, if there be one, normally are developed
at the conclusion of the grand jury's labors, not at the
beginning. Hendriccs v. United States, 223 U. S. 178,
184.
And, for the same reasons, witnesses are not entitled
to take exception to the jurisdiction of the grand jury or
the court over the particular subject-matter that is under
investigation. In truth it is in the ordinary case no
concern of one summoned as a witness whether the offense is within the jurisdiction of the court or not. At

RUMELY v. McCARTHY.
Syllabus.

273.

least, the court and grand jury have authority and jurisdiction to investigate the facts in order to determine the
question whether the facts show a case within their
jurisdiction.
The present cases are not exceptional, and for the
reasons that have been outlined we are of opinion that
appellants were not entitled to raise any question about
the constitutionality of the statutes under which the
grand jury's investigation was conducted.
Final orders affirmed.

RUMELY v. McCARTHY, UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 874.

Submitted April 16, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Under an indictment charging violations of the Trading with the
Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, c. 106,40 Stat. 411, in failing to report
enemy property and credits, the contention, raised before a commissioner in removal proceedings and based on the allegations and defendant's uncontradicted evidence, that the report, if required,
would show defendant guilty, under the same act, of trading with
the enemy, and thus compel him to be a witness against himself,
contrary to the Fifth Amendment, is matter for defense at the trial
and does not go to the issue of probable cause. P. 287.
A finding of fact made by a commissioner in removal proceedings and
supported by competent evidence is not reviewable in habeas corpus.
P. 289.
The duty, imposed by the Trading with the Enemy Act, § 7a, to make
report of enemy property and credits to the Alien Property Custodian, involves the duty to make it at his office, and a wilful failure
so to make it is an offense, committed in the district where the office
is established. Id.

