THE SCOW "6--S."
256.

Syllabus.

final decree of April 6, 1909, which held that the ordinance of the City of Lincoln, approved December 10,
1906, levying an occupation tax against complainant,

was illegal and void because violative of the constitution
of the State of Nebraska, and that the enforcement of
the same as to complainant should be perpetually enjoined.

The decree of September 23, 1915, will be further modified so that the dismissal of the bill of complaint, in so

far as it relates to the ordinance of the City of Lincoln

approved November 19, 1906, establishing a rate of
charges for gas in said city, shall be without prejudice
to the commencement of a new action to restrain the

enforcement of said ordinance hereafter, and
Decree, as thus modified, affirmed with costs.

THE SCOW "6-S."'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 301.

Argued April 24, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

The Act of June 29, 1888, c. 496, 25 Stat. 209, as amended, regulating
dumping in New York Harbor, renders a vessel employed in violating
its provisions directly liable for the same pecuniary penalties that
it imposes on individuals, and these may be enforced against the
vessel summarily by libel, without awaiting the result of criminal
proceedings against the individuals. P. 271. The Strathairly, 124
U. S. 558, distinguished.
There is no constitutional or other reason why an unliquidated fine
may not be enforced against a vessel in admiralty; and jurisdiction
of such a proceeding is conferred upon the District Court by the
I The docket title of this case is: P. Sanford Ross, Inc., Claimant
of the Scow " 6-S," v. United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Act of 1888, supra, whether or not it be regarded as a proceeding for
the enforcement of a penalty or forfeiture within § 24 of the Judicial
Code. P. 272.
247 Fed. Rep. 348, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. Leo Everett for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a libel in rem, brought against a scow under
the Act of June 29, 1888, c. 496, 25 Stat. 209, as amended
August 18, 1894, (c. 299, § 3, 28 Stat. 360), and May 28,
1908, (c. 212, § 8, 35 Stat. 426), for illegal dumping in
New York Harbor. Appellant, as claimant of the scow,
denied the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the suit:
first, on the ground that by the statute the vessel was
made liable only for such penalties as might be imposed
in criminal proceedings upon the persons responsible for
the illegal act, and there had been in this case no conviction of such persons or assessment of penalties; and,
secondly, that the assessment of such penalties was not
within the admiralty or maritime jurisdiction of the
court. A motion to dismiss on this ground was overruled,
the court gave judgment against the scow (247 Fed.
Rep. 348), and the claimant appeals to this court upon
the jurisdictional question under § 238, Judicial Code.
The statute forbids by § 1 the deposit of mud, etc.,
in the tidal waters of New York Harbor except within
limits prescribed by the supervisor, and provides that
"every such act is made a misdemeanor, and every person engaged in or who shall aid, abet, authorize, or instigate a violation of this section, shall, upon conviction,

THE SCOW "6-S."
269.

Opinion of the Court.

be punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, such
fine to be not less than two hundred and fifty dollars nor
more than two thousand five hundred dollars, and the
imprisonment to be not less than thirty days nor more
than one year, either or both united, as the judge before
whom conviction is obtained shall decide."
Section 2 provides that the master, etc., of any vessel
towing a scow loaded with prohibited matter to a place
of deposit elsewhere than within the limits shall be punishable as provided in § 1, and in addition have his license
revoked or suspended.
Section 4 contains provisions for disposal of dredged
material, and a penalty for violation thereof, and concludes as follows: "Any boat or vessel used or employed
in violating any provision of this act, shall be liable to
the pecuniary penalties imposed thereby, and may be
proceeded against, summarily by way of libel in any
district court of the United States, having jurisdiction
thereof."
The principal contention of appellant is that the purpose of the statute was to make the vessel responsible
only for such pecuniary penalties as might be assessed
against the offending persons in criminal proceedings,
and hence that the conviction and fining of such persons
is a condition precedent to the maintenance of a suit
against the vessel. In support of this The Strathairly,
124 U. S. 558, is cited. That was a suit brought under
§§ 4252, 4253, 4255, 4266, and 4270, Rev. Stats., which
contained provisions respecting the carriage of passengers on vessels entering or leaving ports of the United
States, and prescribed fines and penalties against the
master and owner of the vessel violating such provisions.
Section 4270 provided: "The amount of the several
penalties imposed by the foregoing provisions regulating
the carriage of passengers in merchant-vessels shall be
liens on the vessel violating those provisions, and such

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

vessel shall be libeled therefor in any circuit or district
court of the United States where such vessel shall arrive."
This court said (p. 580) that the penalty recoverable
against the vessel, and by § 4270 made a lien upon it,
was not an additional penalty, but the same which by
§ 4253 was to be adjudged against the master in the
criminal prosecution.
We concur with the district judge in the view that the
case is distinguishable from the present one because of
the substantial difference in the applicable provisions
of law. The act of Congress here in question imposes a
direct liability upon the vessel for the pecuniary penalties prescribed, and declares that it may be proceeded
against summarily by libel in any district court of the
United States having jurisdiction thereof. This predludes
the idea that the proceeding by libel is to be deferred to
await the possibly slow course of criminal proceedings
against the persons individually responsible. It treats
the offending vessel as a guilty thing, upon the familiar
principle of the maritime law, and permits a proceeding
against her in any court of admiralty "having jurisdiction
thereof "-meaning any court within whose jurisdiction
she may be found.
Libels of this character, without previous conviction
of the responsible persons, have been entertained under
this act from the time of its enactment, and dealt with
upon the merits, without question as to the jurisdiction
until now. United States v. The Sadie, 41 Fed. Rep.
396; The 0. L. Garlic, 45 Fed. Rep. 380; The Anjer Head,
46 Fed. Rep. 664; The Bombay, 46 Fed. Rep. 665; The
Emperor, 49 Fed. Rep. 751; United States v. Various
Tugs and Scows, 225 Fed. Rep. 505; The J. Rich
Steers, 228 Fed. Rep. 319; The Columbia, 255 Fed. Rep.
515.
There is no difficulty, on constitutional or other grounds,
about assessing an unliquidated fine in the admiralty;

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
269.

Syllabus.

and, if it be not a proceeding for enforcement of a penalty
or forfeiture incurred under a law of the United States
within the meaning of the 9th subdivision of § 24, Judicial Code, the Act of 1888 itself confers jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
TEMPLETON v. UNITED STATES.
PHILLIPS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

BLAIR v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
TEMPLETON v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
PHILLIPS v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 763-768.

Argued January 28, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

ft is the duty of this court to refrain from passing upon the constitutionality of an act of Congress when the interests of the party attacking it do not entitle him to raise the question. P. 278.
Held, that witnesses subpoenaed in a grand jury investigation of possible violations of the Corrupt Practices Act of June 25, 1910, as
amended, and of possible perjury in connection therewith, had no
standing to question the power of Congress, under Art. I, § 4, of the
Constitution, to enact provisions for regulation and control of primary elections of candidates for the office of United States Senator.
P. 279.
Under the Fifth Amendment and the legislation of Congress, a federal

