OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

misunderstanding of the Elkins Act, not of the tariff."
We are unable to concur. There was no misunderstanding of the Elkins Act or what it required. The misunderstanding was induced by practice and the opinion of those
in authority that the act was complied with and the word
"knowingly" therefore, as we have already indicated,
must be considered and given exculpating effect if error
there was.
We therefore answer the first question in the affirmative, but as explained by reference to the certificate of
facts above. We do not think it is necessary to answer the
second question.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the decision.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 53.

Argued October 24, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

A writ of error will lie to a judgment of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania upholding a law of the State against an objection based on the
Federal Constitution, if the Supreme Court of the State refuses
to allow an appeal. P. 568.
Want of power in a state commission to consider the constitutionality
of a law which it seeks to enforce can not limit the right of a party
affected to raise the question in the state courts. Id.
As applied to an interstate train terminated by a mail car, the law of
Pennsylvania (Laws 1911, p. 1053, ยง 7), forbidding the operation

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
566.

567

Opinion of the Court.

of any train consisting of United States mail, or express, cars, without the rear end of the rear car being equipped with a platform of
thirty inches in width, with guard rails and steps, invades a subject
of regulation fully occupied by Congress through the rules of the
Postmaster General respecting the construction of mail cars and
their equipment when used as end cars, and under the commerce
clause, as is evinced by the Safety Appliance Act and the regulations
of the Interstate Commerce Commission thereunder, particularly
those permitting the employment of caboose cars, which are constantly used as end cars, without platforms. Id.
67 Pa. Super. Ct. Rep. 575, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. John
Spalding Flannerywas on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William N. Trinkle, with whom Mr. George F.
Snyder and Mr. Berne H. Evans were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
M . JUSTCE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case was begun by a complaint to the Public Service Commission of Pennsylvania that the plaintiff in
error, the Pennsylvania Railroad, ran a specified train the
last car of which was not equipped at its rear end with a
platform thirty inches in width, guard rails and steps, as
required by a statute of Pennsylvania. Act of June 19,
1911, ยง 7. The train was moving in interstate commerce.
The Railroad Company admitted the facts but contended
that it was not bound by the statute because the rear car
was a mail car constructed in accordance with the regulations of the Post Office Department, and because the Government of the United States had assumed control of the
matter so far as to exclude such intermeddling on the part
of a State. The Commission made an order that the Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

road Company should operate its train with the rear end
of the rear car equipped as required by the state law. The
Railroad Company appealed to the Superior Court, setting up that the order violated the commerce clause of the
Constitution (Art. I, ยง 8), and that in view of the federal
legislation and rules, including the order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission dated March 13, 1911, and made
under the Safety Appliance Act, and other matters referred to, the State Commission had no power to do what
it did.
The Superior Court sustained the order holding itself
bound by what it took to be the decision of the Supreme
Court in Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Ewing, 241 Pa. St. 581,
to the effect that nothing had been done by the United
States inconsistent with the continued effect of the state
law. An appeal to the Supreme Court was refused. On
the strength of this it now is argued that the refusal must
have been upon the ground that the Commission was a
purely administrative body; that it had no judicial power
to declare the statute unconstitutional; that therefore no
question of the constitutionality of the act was before the
Superior Court, and that this is implied because an appeal
to the Supreme Court was a matter of right if the case had
involved such a question. But whatever powers a State
may deny to its commissions it cannot give them power
to do what the laws of the United States forbid, whether
they call their action administrative or judicial. The
Superior Court treated the question as open. The Supreme Court merely denied an appeal upon a point that
probably was thought to have been decided already by
the Court.
We pass to the merits of the case. If all that had been
done on behalf of the United States in the way of regulation had been to determine how mail cars should be built,
and to exclude a thirty-inch platform, it might be said
that the state law could be obeyed by putting a different

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
566.

569

Opinion of the Court.

car at the end of the train. It would be a tax upon the
railroad when the company wished to run a mail train
wholly made up of mail cars, but it could be done and it
is not necessary to say that the State could not require it.
But when the United States has exercised its exclusive
powers over interstate commerce so far as to take possession of the field, the States no more can supplement its
requirements than they can annul them. Southern Ry. Co.
v. Railroad Commission of Indiana, 236 U. S. 439, 446.
Charleston & Western CarolinaRy. Co. v. Varnville Furniture Co., 237 U. S. 597, 604. New York CentralR. R. Co. v.
Winfield, 244 U. S. 147. In the present instance the rules
for the construction of mail cars, admitted to be valid, not
only exclude the wide platform but provide an equipment
for them when used as end cars. The Safety Appliance
Act with its careful requirements for the safety of the men
was followed by most elaborate regulations issued by the
Interstate Commerce Commission which include three
large pages of prescriptions for "Caboose Cars without
Platforms." Caboose cars eciastantly are used as end
cars and these pages like the Post Office order as to mail
cars recognize the lawfulness of an end car such as the
Pennsylvania statute forbids.
The question whether Congress and its commissions
acting under it have so far exercised the exclusive jurisdiction that belongs to it as to exclude the State, must be
answered by a judgment upon the particular case. The
subject-matter in this instance is peculiarly one that calls
for uniform law and in our opinion regulation by the paramount authority has gone so far that the statute of Pennsylvania cannot impose the additional obligation in issue
here. The Interstate Commerce Commission is continually on the alert, and if the Pennsylvania law represents a
real necessity, no doubt will take or recommend steps to
meet the need.
Judgment reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

MR. JusTICE CLARKE

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

dissenting.

Of course I agree with the majority of the court that if
the United States had taken possession of the field involved in this controversy, the State could not supplement
or annul its requirements or regulations, and it is because
it seems to me clear that it has done nothing of the kind
that I dissent from the conclusion of the court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has never assumed control over the manner in which trains shall be
made up, or manned, or moved, so far as I know,-certainly there is nothing in the record in this case to indicate
that it has done so.
The section of the state statute held invalid has to do, not
with individual cars, but with high speed trains of cars in
operation, and it does not prescribe what the construction
of mail or express cars shall be, but only that the rear car
of trains made up of mail or express cars shall be equipped
with a platform as prescribed, with "exits free from obstruction." It may be a mail car, or an express car, or a
passenger coach or a caboose,-the only requirement is that
it shall have a platform with guard rail and steps.
For the reason that federal authority had not occupied
the field, this court has upheld state laws prescribing the
number of men who must be employed to operate trains,
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219
U. S. 453, the manner in which the cars of passenger
trains shall be heated, New York, New Haven & Hartford
R. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628, the kind of headlight which engines shall carry, Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, and that trainmen shall be
subject to state examination as to their qualifications,
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Nashville, Chattanooga
& St. Louis Ry. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96.
In this case the action of the court is rested chiefly on
the single circumstance that the Interstate Commerce

PENNA. R. R. CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
566.

CLARKE,

571

J., dissenting.

Commission has prescribed requisites for "Caboose Cars
without Platforms," and since caboose cars are constantly
used as end cars, therefore it is concluded the Commission
recognizes as lawful a type of end car which the state
statute condemns.
If the construction prescribed for" Caboose Cars without
Platforms" at all resembled or was even approximately
the equivalent of the construction of express or mail cars
in the respects essential to the safety and promptness of
service on the rear end of fast trains, or if it appeared that
such cabooses are or could be used on such trains, the
inference might be justified, but the difference between
the two is radical and fundamental. As thus: the illustrations in the record show that mail and express cars have
only narrow stirrups and single handholds at the side
doors and at their ends, and the ends are equipped with
vestibule frames, which render access difficult and dangerous to the brake wheel and markers (signal lights and
flags) and to the handholds and stirrups for mounting or
alighting. But the requisites prescribed for a "Caboose
without Platform" are, a curved and a straight handhold
on opposite sides of each side door, and "'Side-door Steps"
under each door, with a minimum length of five feet, a
minimum width of six inches, a minimum height of backstop of three inches, and hung a maximum height of only
twenty-four inches from the top of rail. Such handholds,
with such a long, wide and low-hanging step give facilities
for mounting or alighting from such a caboose, when in
motion, comparable in safety to those of an end platform,
and are obviously much better and safer than those on
mail or express cars.
The importance of rear-end signals cannot be overstated, yet the construction of the ends of express and
mail cars, as shown in the illustrations in the record, is
such that such signals can be observed by trainmen with
difficulty, when the train is moving, and can be put in place

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

or removed only with great risk of injury, especially in
time of storm of wind or rain or when the precarious foothold on the narrow ledge of the slightly extended end sill
is covered with ice or snow. Such danger is entirely obviated by use of the inexpensive platform prescribed by
the state statute.
To this we must add that a caboose is used only on
slowly moving freight trains, while the state act deals only
with fast trains, which start so rapidly that mounting them
is especially dangerous for men, who, in the discharge of
duty, must usually be on the ground to the last moment,
for observation and for signalling, and with whom a few
moments in alighting, when the emergency signal is given,
may mean the difference between safety and disaster to
themselves and to passengers and property on such and
other trains.
It was to furnish facilities to employees for prompt and
reasonably safe mounting and alighting from these fast
trains and for the discharge of other duties without excessive danger that the statute was enacted, and it seems to
me, for the reasons stated, that permitting the use of
cabooses without platforms does not cover the rear end
requirements of fast express and mail trains, and that the
court, in its decision, makes a misapplication of that permission.
It will excite surprise in many minds that the plaintiff
railroad company does not make, as it is believed many
carriers do make, such provision as this statute requires,
or its equivalent, from motives of economy, as a protection from injury to employees and danger to property
as well as from the humanitarian motive so obviously
involved.
Believing, as I do, that the section of the state statute
is a humane, reasonable and intelligent provision for promoting the safety of employees, passengers and property
arising from special conditions on the lines of railway, and

PELL v. McCABE.
566.

Syllabus.

that there is no federal provision having a like purpose, I
decline to share in striking down as unconstitutional a law
passed by the legislature of Pennsylvania, approved by
the Public Service Commission of that State as reasonable

and necessary and, as I think, by its highest court as constitutional.

PELL ET AL. v. McCABE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 311, 335. Argued October 16, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.
One who has not been subjected to the jurisdiction in an action in
personam in another State cannot maintain a bill to enjoin its prosecution. P. 574.
A firm of bankrupts having offered a composition conditioned among
other things that one T, who claimed to be a special partner only,
should be released from liability to the firm or to any of it$ creditors
assenting to the composition upon giving up a scheduled claim and
assuming certain obligations for which securities of his were pledged,
T in an agreement with the receivers accepted the composition and
agreed to pay the obligations upon return of the securities, the equities in which he agreed to hold for the estate in case he should be adjudged a general partner. The District Court, having approved
this agreement, later, in confirming the composition, relieved T,
upon performance, from further liability to the receivers or the estate
under the prior order "or otherwise," and dismissed pending petitions to have him declared a general partner and adjudged a bankrupt. Held: (1) That the decree did not estop persons, who though
they had paid a claim and disputed another, did not appear in the
bankruptcy proceedings, assent to the composition, or prove a claim,
from prosecuting an action against T in a court of another State
seeking to hold him as a general partner of the bankrupts for an
after-discovered fraud; (2) that the District Court had no jurisdiction ancillary to the bankruptcy decree to enjoin such action. P. 576.

