BURLESON v. DEMPCY.
Argument for Appellant.

BURLESON, POSTMASTER GENERAL, v. DEMPCY
ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC UTILITIES
COMMISSION OF ILLINOIS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1006.

Argued May 5, 6, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Decided on the authority of Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South
Dakota, ante, 163.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry S. Robbins, with whom The Solicitor General
was on the brief, for appellant:
A suit against the Postmaster General or his agents,
which seeks to control him in the matter of telegraph
charges is in legal effect a suit against the United
States.
Under the joint resolution, pursuant to which the President operates the telephone and telegraph lines, the power
to fix rates, both interstate and intrastate, is in the President. The States have no power to estalish intrastate
rates. Otherwise construed, the act of Congress would be
unconstitutional.
The power to conduct a war is divisible into the power
to provide the man power and other resources, and the
power to direct their use. Thus the Constitution gives
Congress only powers" to lay and collect taxes . . . to
provide for the common defence," "to raise and
support armies," "to provide and maintain a navy,"
"to make rules for the government and regulation of the
land and naval forces," "to provide for calling forth the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

250 U. S.

militia to execute the laws of the Union," to "provide for
organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia," and to
pass all laws "necessary or proper" to enable the President
to make war. The above power "to make rules for the
government and regulation of the land and naval forces"
does not include the power to direct their operation for
the reason that this latter power, although contained in
the Articles of Confederation, was omitted from the Constitution. Consistently with these powers, which are
conferred upon Congress, the President is made commander-in-chief of the army and navy, and is vested with all
power of an executive nature. Thus Congress is given the
power to provide the resources for the conduct of a war,
while the President is given power to direct the use of
such resources. The purpose and effect of this joint resolution was to provide the President with certain resources
for the successful prosecution of the war. This was
clearly a legislative act and properly pertained to Congress. Having provided the President with these particular resources, the control and operation of the lines
belong to the President, not merely under the terms
of the joint resolution, but by reason of the fact that
such control and operation involve the exercise of the
power to conduct the war. Hence, the power to control and operate the telegraph lines, given into the possession of the President by the act of Congress, belong
to the President under the Constitution, and not merely
under the act of Congress. It follows that his control and operation cannot be made subordinate to the
will of any State.
The rate-making power is not reserved to the States
under the proviso which authorizes the States to enact
lawful police regulations.
The correctness of this construction appears from the
purpose and policy of the act in question.
A state law establishing intrastate telegraph rates,

BURLESON v. DEMPCY.
191.

Argument for Appellees.

even if enacted under the police power, is invalid, because
a direct interference with the war powers of the Federal
Government.
The history of the proviso in question discloses that
Congress did not intend to reserve to the States the power
to establish intrastate rates.
Mr. Raymond S. Pruitt, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Illinois, with whom Mr. Edward J. Brundage,
Attorney General of the State of Illinois, and Mr. George
T. Buckingham and Mr. Matthew Mills, Assistant Attorneys General of the State of Illinois, were on the brief, for
appellees:
This suit will lie to enjoin the Postmaster General.
The Postmaster General is the moving party in this
litigation, and by applying to the District Court for a
construction of his powers and the powers of defendants
over intrastate telegraph rates, he submitted himself to
the jurisdiction and protection of the court, and waived
his asserted immunity from suit.
Congress by the proviso in the Joint Resolution of
July 16, 1918, in effect specifically ordered that the powers
thereby conferred upon the President shall not be construed to amend, repeal, impair or affect the existing
police regulations of the States relative to intrastate
commerce, including the fixing of reasonable intrastate
rates to be charged and collected by telegraph companies.
Assuming that Congress, as a war measure, might have
enacted appropriate legislation, wiping out of existence
for the period of the war all state control over intrastate
rates, the power to fix rates, which is legislative in its nature, could not have been legally conferred upon the
President or any executive officer. Milwaukee Electric
R. & L. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 238 U. S. 174, 180;
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 692.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, WHITE
court.

250 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the
-

In a suit commenced by the Postmaster General, the
members of the Public Utilities Commission of Illinois and
the Attorney General of that State filed a cross-bill to
enjoin the Postmaster General from enforcing telgraph
rates which he had directed to be charged for services rendered over lines which were in the possession, under the
control, and being operated by the United States under
authority of the resolution of Congress and the proclamation of the President considered in Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, this day announced, ante, 163.
The theory of the cross-bill was that the United States
in operating the lines was governed as to intrastate rates
by state authority and could not lawfully exact for such
services rendered any charges but those which the State
sanctioned. The court below upheld this view and therefore permanently enjoined the Postmaster General from
charging any other than the state rates for the intrastate
business. The case is before us on appeal from the decree
to that effect.
As there is no difference in legal principle as to the question of power between the Dakota Central Telephone Case
and this, it follows that the decision in that case is conclusive here and makes certain the error committed below.
In this case, therefore, as in that, as a decree of reversal
will dispose of every issue in the case, it follows that the
decree below must be reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRA2D EIS

dissents.

