OCTOBER TERM, t918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

the White Company, with knowledge of the facts, procured and used the property of the Ball Company it ought
to have been held liable to that Company. It follows that
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Reversed.

KENNY v. MILES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 179.

Argued January 24, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

Subject to the provisions as to certificates of competency, lands allotted as homestead and surplus respectively, under the Act of
June 28, 1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539, in the right of a deceased
Indian member of the Osage tribe, duly enrolled, and descending
to Indian heirs, likewise members duly enrolled, are subject to the
same restrictions on alienation as arc imposed upon lands allotted
to living members. P. 63. Levindale Lead Co. v. Coleman, 241
U. S. 432; Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448; and Skelton v.
Dill, 235 U. S. 206, distinguished.
Section 6 of the Act of April 18, 1912, c. 83, 37 Stat. 86, provides
that "the lands of deceased Osage allottees, unless the heirs agree
to partition the same, may be partitioned or sold upon proper order
of any court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the laws
of the State of Oklahoma: Provided, That no partition or sale of
the restricted lands of a deceased Osage allottee shall be valid until
approved by the Secretary of the Interior." Held: (1) That the
term "restricted lands" refers to the restrictions on alienation
imposed by Congress to protect the Indians from their own incompetency, (p. 61); and (2) that, in the absence of approval
by the Secretary, a judgment for partition or sale, in a suit brought
under this section in the state court respecting such lands, is inoperative, so that a finding of heirship, forming a part of it, is not
conclusive in other proceedings. P. 65.
162 Pac. Rep. 775, reversed.

KENNY v. MILES.
58.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. H. P. White for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE

VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
In concluding a proceeding in the county court of
Osage County, Oklahoma, for the settlement of the estate of Lah-tah-sah, a deceased Indian woman, it became
necessary to determine who were her heirs. Two claimants appeared and sought to establish such a relation.
One, John Kenny, claimed to be a son and the sole heir;
and the other, Laban Miles, claimed to be the surviving
husband and an equal heir with Kenny. It was conceded
that Kenny was a son, but it was disputed that Miles ever
was the deceased's husband. If he was such when she
died, he and Kenny were equal heirs; otherwise Kenny
was the sole heir.
At the hearing in that proceeding Miles produced and
relied on a judgment in a partition suit, which he had
brought against Kenny in the district court of the same
county, wherein it was found that he and the deceased
were married about a year before her death and that he
remained her husband until she died. Over Kenny's protest, based on congressional enactments presently to be
noticed, the county court treated that judgment as a conclusive determination of the matters so found and rejected
evidence produced by Kenny to show that there had been
no such marriage. It was accordingly adjudged that Miles
and Kenny were equal heirs, and that decision was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. 162 Pac. Rep. 775.
The case is here on writ of certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S

Whether, consistently with the congressional enactments on which Kenny's protest was based, the judgment
in the partition suit could be treated as conclusive of the
matters therein found is the ultimate federal question in
the case.
Lah-tah-sah was an Indian of the Osage tribe, duly
enrolled as such. This entitled her to share in the division
and allotment of the lands and funds of the tribe under
the Act of June 28, 1906, c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539. She died intestate August 19, 1908. Thereafter two tribal deeds naming her as grantee,1 and approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, were issued under that act. The deeds were for
lands allotted to her or in her right out of the tribal lands.
One was for 160 acres designated as a homestead, and
the other was for 500.12 acres designated as surplus lands.
Both purported to pass a title in fee simple, subject to
the conditions, limitations and provisions of the act. It
was to these lands that the judgment in the partition
suit related. That judgment treated the lands as inherited from Lah-tah-sah and ordered that they be partitioned equally between Miles and Kenny as her heirs, or,
if not susceptible of partition in kind, that they be sold
with a view to an equal division of the proceeds.
By ยง 6 of the Act of April 18, 1912, c. 83, 37 Stat. 86,
which is supplementary to and amendatory of the Act of
1906, it is provided that "the lands of deceased Osage
allottees, unless the heirs agree to -partitionthe same, may
be partitioned or sold upon proper order of any court of
competent jurisdiction in accordance with the laws of the
State of Oklahoma: Provided, That no partition or sale
of the restricted lands of a deceased Osage allottee shall
be valid until approved by the Secretary of the Interior."
It was after this enactment that the partition suit was
1 As to the legal effect of the deeds issued to her after her death,
see besides ยง 6 of the Act of 1906, Rev. Stats. ยง 2448; Crews v. Burchain, 1 Black, 352, 356; United States v. Chase, 245 If. S. 89, 101.

KENNY v. MILES.
58.

Opinion of the Court.

begun, and there was here no approval by the Secretary
of the Interior.
Kenny's protest was based on the Acts of 1906 and 1912
and was to the effect that the lands to which the partition
suit related were restricted lands and that in consequence
the judgment for their partition or sale was of no effect
in the absence of the prescribed approval by the Secretary
of the Interior.
The term "restricted lands" in ยง 6 of the Act of 1912
means lands the alienation of which is subject to restrictions imposed by Congress to protect the Indians from
their own incompetency. This is shown by a later sentence in the same section and by various provisions in
the Act of 1906.
To determine whether the lands ordered to be partitioned or sold were restricted requires some consideration
of the Act of 1906, for it was under that act that they
were allotted and the tribal deeds issued. By its first
section the act makes the tribal roll as existing January 1,
1906, with eliminations and additions not material here,
the authentic roll of the members for the purposes of the
act. By its second section it provides that the tribal
lands, with stated exceptions, shall be divided among the
members in such way as to give each a fair share in acres;
that every member "shown by the roll" shall be permitted to select three tracts of 160 acres each; that after
all have made the three selections the remaining lands,
with some exceptions, shall be divided as equally as practicable by a designated commission, and that"Fourth.

.

.

.

Each member of said tribe shall be

permitted to designate which of his three selections shall
be a homestead, Iand his certificate of allotment and deed
shall designate the same as a homestead, and the same
'A subsequent joint resolution permitted the homestead to be
designated from lands in any one or more of the three selections.
February 27, 1909, 35 Stat. 1167.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

shall be inalienable and nontaxable until otherwise provided by Act of Congress. The other two selections of
each member, together with his share of the remaining
lands allotted to the member, shall be known as surplus
land, and shall be inalienable for twenty-five years, except as hereinafter provided."
The second section further provides (par. 7) that when
any adult member is found fully competent to care for
his own affairs the Secretary of the Interior may issue
to him a certificate of competency authorizing him to sell
and convey any of the lands deeded to him under the
act other than his homestead, which where the certificate
issues 1 is to remain inalienable for twenty-five years, or
during the life of the homestead allottee. Other sections
reserve to the tribe for twenty-five years the oil, gas, coal
and other minerals in the allotted lands and provide that
the tribal funds and moneys, with specified exceptions,
shall be placed to the credit of the several members
"shown by the authorized roll," or their heirs, on the
basis of a pro rata division and shall be held in trust by
the United States for twenty-five years. The sixth section is as follows:
"Sec. 6. That the lands, moneys, and mineral interests,
herein provided for, of any deceased member of the Osage
tribe shall descend to his or her legal heirs, according to
the laws of the Territory of Oklahoma, or of the State
in which said reservation may be hereinafter incorporated,
except where the decedent leaves no issue, nor husband
nor wife, in which case said lands, moneys, and mineral
interests must go to the mother and father equally."
The seventh section shows that the allotted lands are
for the sole use of the individual members, or their heirs,
and that the same may be leased, subject to the restriction that to be effective "all leases," whether for the benefit of the individual members or their heirs, must have the
'See Aaron v. United States, 204 Fed, Pep. 943, 945-946.

KENNY v. MILES.
58.

Opinion of the Court.

approval of the Secretary of the Interior; and the eighth
section provides that the deeds to allottees shall be executed by the principal chief of the tribe, but shall not be
valid until the Secretary of the Interior approves them.
The Act of 1912, in its sixth section, treats the restraints
applicable to living allottees as also applicable to such of
the heirs of deceased allottees as are members of the tribe,
and expressly provides that "when the heirs of such deceased allottees have certificates of competency
the restrictions on alienation are hereby removed."
Lah-tah-sah died without receiving a certificate of
competency. Kenny and Miles, who claim to be her
heirs, are of Osage blood and members of the tribe, and
neither has received such a certificate. Thus the case
differs materially from Levindale Lead Co. v. Coleman,
241 U. S. 432, where it was held to be obvious from an
examination of the entire Act of 1906 that the restrictions
on alienation were imposed to secure the welfare of Indians-wards of the United States-and were not intended to apply to lands, or undivided interests therein,
inherited by white men who were not members of the
tribe. There a white man, who as heir of a deceased
Osage wife and child took an undivided interest in lands
allotted in their behalf after their death, was held to have
an unrestricted right to alienate his interest; but the court
was careful to indicate that it was not dealing with the
interests of Indian heirs.
The Act of 1906 makes it plain that all whose names
were on the authentic roll were to share in the division
of the tribal property. They were the "members" among
whom the lands were to be allotted in stated portions.
Lah-tah-sah, being one of them, was entitled to such an
allotment. It was made in her name, but whether before
or after her death is left uncertain by the record. The
court below treated it as made after her death and held
that the lands were not restricted, its decision being put

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

on the ground that the restrictions on alienation are not
applicable to lands allotted in the right of deceased
members, but only to such as are allotted to members
living at that time. We cannot assent to that conclusion.
Under the Act of 1906 the death of a member entitled
to an allotment does not extinguish his right. According
to the implication of the act and the administrative rulings, the allotment still may be made in his name. Where
this is done he is regarded as the allottee and his heirs as
taking by descent from him. Such allotments and all
others are made under one comprehensive provision, in
which there is no distinctive mention of either living or
deceased members. The restrictions are imposed by another provision equally comprehensive, and it makes no
distinction between lands allotted to living members and
those allotted in the right of deceased members. Nor is
any such distinction made in the section dealing with
descent. The heirs are generally Indians, and seldom
white men. When they are Indians they are equally
within the occasion for the restrictions, whether the allotment be to a living member or in the right of one deceased,
Talley v. Burgess, 246 U. S. 104, 108; and in either case
some may be without any allotment of their own, because
born after the time for closing the roll. Thus those who
take under allotments made in the right of deceased
members are no less within the letter and spirit of the
restrictions than are other heirs. That all are intended
to be protected is shown by the leasing provision, which
requires that "all leases" on the part of heirs shall have
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
We, therefore, are of opinion that the lands allotted in
Lah-tah-sah's name were restricted lands, whether allotted
before or after her death.
The Act of 1906 is quite unlike the earlier acts considered in the cases of Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S.
448, and Skelton v. Dill, 235 U. S. 206, which are cited

KENNY v. MILES.
58.

Opinion of the Court.

in support of the conclusion below. Those acts, as was
pointed out in our opinions, contained separate provisions
for two classes of allotments-one to members living at
the time, and the other in the right of deceased members.
In the provisions dealing with the first class there were
express restrictions on the right of alienation, and in
those dealing with the second class there was an entire
absence of such restrictions. Because of this difference
in terms, we held that Congress intended that allotments of the second class should be unrestricted. The
differences between those earlier acts and that of 1906 are
pronounced and reasonably can be explained on no other
theory than that Congress intended that all allotments
under the Act of 1906 should be restricted, subject of
course to the issue of certificates of competency. And
that this is what was intended becomes even more manifest when it is considered that in the meantime Congress
had imposed other restrictions in respect of allotments
under the earlier acts and in doing so had discarded the
distinction before made between the two classes of allotments so far as full-blood Indian heirs were concerned.
Talley v. Burgess, supra.
We have seen that the provision in the Act of 1912
under which the partition suit was brought and entertained declares that where the lands are restricted, as
was the case here, no partition or sale shall be valid until
approved by the Secretary of the Interior. No approval
was given in this instance. In consequence the judgment
ordering a partition or sale-it had no other purposewas inoperative. It could not be executed and was not
binding on any one. The findings were part of it and were
of no force apart from it.
It results that Kenny's protest against the use made of
that judgment was well grounded.
Judgment reversed.

