AMERICAN MFG. CO. v. ST. LOUIS.
Syllabus.

454.

the highways), there is no occasion for a hearing with
respect to the mode in which the assessment shall be
apportioned, since this is resolved into a mere mathematical calculation. And it is settled by the cases above cited
that whether the entire amount or a part only of the cost
of a local improvement shall be imposed as a special tax
upon the property benefited, and whether the tax shall
be distributed upon a consideration of the particular benefit to particular lots or apportioned according to their
frontage upon the streets, their values, or their area, is a
matter of legislative discretion, subject, of course, to judicial relief in cases of actual abuse of power or of substantial error in executing it, neither of which is here asserted.
Judgment affirmed.

AMERICAN

MANUFACTURING COMPANY
CITY OF ST. LOUIS.

v.

ERROR To THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 365.

Argued April 30, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

The question whether a state law or tax deprives a party of constitutional rights depends upon its practical operation and effect. P. 462.
An ordinance conditioning the right to manufacture goods within a
city upon the payment of a license tax computed upon the amount
of the sales of the goods so manufactured, held, a tax upon the business of manufacture within the city, and not a tax upon the sales.
P. 463.
Such a tax when computed upon the sales of goods manufactured in
the city under the license, but removed, and afterwards sold, beyond the State, does not impose a direct burden on interstate commerce or, when the manufacturer is a sister-state corporation, deprive it of property without due process. P. 464.
198 S. W. Rep. 1183, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. Mayner Wallace, with whom Mr. Shepard Barclay was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Everett Paul Griffin, with whom Mr. Charles H.
Daues was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question is whether an ordinance of the City of St.
Louis levying against manufacturers, especially as against
plaintiff in error, a West Virginia corporation, a tax inposed as a condition of the grant of a license to carry on
a manufacturing business in that city, but the amount
of which is ascertained by and proportioned to the amount
of sales of the manufactured goods, whether sold within
or without the State, and whether in domestic or interstate commerce, is void as amounting to a regulation of
commerce among the States and thus entrenching upon
the power of the national Congress under Art. I, § 8, of
the Constitution, or as amounting to a taking of plaintiff's
property without due process of law, in contravention of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
A statute of the State (Rev. Stats. Mo. 1909, § 9857)
authorizes cities to license, tax and regulate for local purposes the occupations of merchants and manufacturers
and to graduate the amount of annual license imposed
upon them in proportion to the sales made by such merchant or manufacturer during the year next preceding
any fixed date. Pursuant to this authority the city, by
the ordinance in question, in addition to an ad valorem
property tax, requires every manufacturer in the city
before doing or offering to do business as such to take out
a license, and at a specified time to render a sworn statement of the aggregate amount of sales made by him during

AMERICAN MFG. CO. v. ST. LOUIS.
459.

Opinion of the Court.

the year next preceding the first Monday of June, and
within a short time thereafter to pay a license tax of $1 on
each $1,000 of sales made. Failure or refusal to deliver
the required statement or to pay the license tax within the
time specified is made a misdemeanor punishable by fine
and the imposition of a double tax; making a false statement under oath is made punishable by forfeiture of the
license in addition to a fine.
In a previous case (Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, 238
Missouri, 267, 278), the Supreme Court of the State held
that this tax did not apply to sales made of goods shipped
from plaintiff's factory in the State of New York directly
to purchasers in Texas, but only to sales from its St. Louis
factory.
In the present case, which was a suit brought in a state
court by plaintiff in error against the city to recover so
much of a disputed tax as was measured by sales of goods
manufactured by plaintiff in the city, afterwards removed
to storage warehouses outside of the State, and later sold
from these warehouses to purchasers in States other than
Missouri, the trial court at first gave judgment in favor of
plaintiff on this item, and this having been reversed by
the Supreme Court of the State (270 Missouri, 40), a new
trial resulting in favor of the city, and the second judgment having been affirmed (198 S. W. Rep. 1183), the
case comes here on writ of error.
In construing the statute and ordinance and defining
the nature and effect of the tax, the Supreme Court expressed itself as follows (p. 45):
"It is not disputed that under the broad provision of its
charter the city of St. Louis has the power to license and
tax manufacturers within its limits; nor that the power
includes the right to impose a tax upon the transaction
of their business. Adopting substantially the definition
we have quoted from the statute, it has, by ordinance,
forbidden them to pursue their business within the city

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

without procuring a license, and has prescribed the additional tax they shall pay for that purpose, which is graduated to accord with the amount of business they shall
carry to the point of realizing the profit or liquidating
the loss by the sale of the product of their work. They
may only buy and sell in pursuance of their business as
manufacturers. That his right to pursue this business
is the one thing he receives as compensation for this tax
is evident; and that the method of fixing its amount by
the amount that he realizes from the licensed activity is a
just and equitable one is not disputed; nor is the inherent
justice and fairness of postponing the payment until the
realization of the result of the work. The tax is none
the less a tax upon the business of manufacture pursued
in the city of St. Louis under the protection of the laws of
We
. .
this State and the ordinances of the city.
hold that the tax in question is a tax upon the privilege
of pursuing the business of manufacturing these goods in
the city of St. Louis; that when the goods were manufactured the obligation accrued to pay the amount of the
tax represented by their production when it should
be liquidated by their sale by the manufacturer; that
their removal from the city of St. Louis and storage elsewhere, whether within or without the State, worked no
change in this obligation; that their sale by the respondent
wherever they may have been stored at the time, whether
it was done through its home office in New York or the
office of its factory in St. Louis, should have been reported
in its return to the license collector of the city of St. Louis
and the amount included in fixing the amount payable on
account of its license tax."
As a matter of construction, this, upon familiar principles, is conclusive upon us. But, as has been held very
often, the question whether a state law or a tax imposed
thereunder deprives a party of rights secured by the federal
Constitution depends not upon the form of the act, nor

AMERICAN MFG. CO. v. ST. LOUIS.
459.

Opinion of the Court.

upon how it is construed or characterized by the state
court, but upon its practical operation and effect. St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 362;
Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 237;
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 294.
The admitted facts show that the operation and effect
of the taxing scheme now under consideration are correctly
described in what we have quoted from the opinion of the
state court. No tax has been or is to be imposed upon
any sales of goods by plaintiff in error except goods manufactured by it in St. Louis under a license conditioned for
the payment of a tax upon the amount of the sales when
the goods should come to be sold. The tax is computed
according to the amount of the sales of such manufactured
goods, irrespective of whether they be sold within or
without the State, in one kind of commerce or another;
and payment of the tax is not made a condition of selling
goods in interstate or in other commerce, but only of
continuing the manufacture of goods in the City of St.
Louis.
There is no doubt of the power of the State, or of the
city acting under its authority, to impose a license tax
in the nature of an excise upon the conduct of a manufacturing business in the city. Unless some particular interference with federal right be shown, the States are free
to lay privilege and occupation taxes. Clark v. Titusville,
184 U. S. 329; St. Louis v. United Railways Co., 210 U. S.
266, 276.
The city might have measured such tax by a percentage
upon the value of all goods manufactured, whether they
ever should come to be sold or not, and have required
payment as soon as, or even before, the goods left the factory. In order to mitigate the burden, and also, perhaps,
to bring merchants and manufacturers upon an equal
footing in this regard, it has postponed ascertainment
and payment of the tax until the manufacturer can bring

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the goods into market. A somewhat similar method of
postponing payment has been pursued for many years by
the Federal Government with respect to the internal
revenue tax upon distilled spirits. Rev. Stats., §§ 3251,
3253; Act of August 27, 1894, c. 349, § 48, 28 Stat. 509, 563.
To the suggestion that the tax burdens the mercantile
rather than the manufacturing business, because it would
be possible for one to manufacture goods to an unlimited
extent and pay no tax unless they were sold, or to sell goods
and be required to pay the tax although they were not
manufactured by the seller, it is sufficient to say-answering the second point first-(a) that, according to the state
law as laid down by the court of last resort in this case,
a manufacturer has no right to sell goods except those of
his own manufacture; and (b) it is not to be supposed
that, for the purpose of evading a tax payable only upon
the sale of his goods, a manufacturer would pursue the
ruinous policy of making goods and locking them up permanently in warehouses. In the outcome the tax is the
same in amount as if it were measured by the sale value
of the goods but imposed upon the completion of their
manufacture. The difference is that, for reasons of practical benefit to the taxpayer, the city has postponed payment until convenient means have been furnished through
the marketing of the goods.
In our opinion, the operation and effect of the taxing
ordinance are to impose a legitimate burden upon the
business of carrying on the manufacture of goods in the
city; it produces no direct burden on commerce in the
goods manufactured, whether domestic or interstate,
and only the same kind of incidental and indirect effect as
that which results from the payment of property taxes
or any other and general contribution to the cost of government. Therefore, it does not amount to a regulation
of interstate commerce. And, for like reasons, it has not
the effect of imposing a tax upon the property or the busi-

ERIE R. R. CO. v. SHUART.
459.

Syllabus.

ness transactions of plaintiff in error outside of the State
of Missouri, and hence does not deprive plaintiff in error
of its property without due process of law.
Our recent decisions cited in opposition to this view,
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 297;
Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, 188, and other cases of
the same kinds referred to therein, are so obviously distinguishable that particular analysis is unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. SHUART ET AL.,
DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME OF JOHN
R. SHUART & SONS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 342.

Submitted April 25, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

In a contract governing an interstate shipment of live stock the carrier's liability for negligent injury of the stock during transportation
may lawfully be conditioned upon the presentation of a written
claim by the shipper within five days from their removal from the
cars. P. 467.
In view of the enlarged scope of "transportation," as defined by the
Hepburn Act, an interstate movement of live stock is not ended when
the car containing them is placed opposite a cattle chute of the carrier on a switch track at destination and left in charge of the shipper
for unloading, when an adequate time for unloading them has not
expired, although the shipper assumed the duty, risk and expense of
their unloading by the terms of the contract for transportation.
Id. Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

