DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
153.

163

Syllabus.

consideration. Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225.
This moreover puts out of view the argument advanced
concerning the adequacy of the averments of the bill to
justify relief, since that subject necessarily, for the reasons
stated, must be left to the consideration of the court below when it exercises jurisdiction of the cause.
Our order, therefore, is that the decree be reversed and
the case be remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

DAKOTA CENTRAL TELEPHONE COMPANY ET
AL. v. STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA EX REL.
PAYNE, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 967.

Argued May 5, 6, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

The Joint Resolution of July 16, 1918, c. 154, 40 Stat. 904, authorizing
the President during the continuance of the present war, whenever
he shall deem it necessary for the national security or defense, to
take possession and assume control, inter alia, of any telephone line
or any part thereof, and operate it as may be needful or desirable
for the duration of the war, is within the war power of Congress.
P. 183. NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, ante, 135.
Whether the exercise of the power so conferred was justified by the
conditions at the time, or was actuated by proper motives, are
questions of executive discretion not within the cognizance of the
judiciary, under the Constitution. Pp. 184, 187.
The Joint Resolution, supra, authorized the complete possession, control and operation of telephone lines by the United States, including
the fixing of rates for local service, as brought about through the
President's Proclamation of July 22, 1918, and the action of the
Postmaster General thereunder, whereby the United States, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

250 U. S.

contracts with the owning companies, took over their entire business
and became entitled to the revenues therefrom, and fixed the rates;
and this was subsequently recognized by the Act of October 30,
1918, c. 197, 40 Stat. 1017. P. 184.
The Joint Resolution, supra, provides that nothing therein "shall be
construed to amend, repeal, impair, or affect existing laws or powers
of the States in relation to taxation "or their "lawful police regulations . . . , except wherein such laws, powers, or regulations
may affect the transmission of Government communications, or
the issue of stocks and bonds by such system or systems." Held,
that police power here reserved does not include the authority to
make local rates, which the resolution as a whole by clear implication transfers to the United States; and that the provision as to stocks
and bonds does not justify a contrary construction. P. 185.
There can be no presumption that the state rate-making power was to
continue after the telephone lines and business, including the revenues, were completely taken over by the United States and were
being operated as federal instrumentalities, under the war power.
P. 187. Northern PacificRy. Co. v. North Dakota, ante, 135.

An erroneous judgment directly affecting the United States, reversed
on the merits, see NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota,ante, 135.
171 N. W. Rep. 277, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for plaintiffs in error (and for
respondent in Macleod v. New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., post, 195.)
These suits are in effect against the United States and
therefore not within the jurisdiction of the courts. They
seek an injunction which, if granted, will restrain the
United States in the use of property, its right to possession
and operation of which is not attacked, and would compel the United States to furnish service, at risk of loss, on
rates it has superseded. The defendants are operating
as appointees and agents of the Government. They have
no personal interest in the result. Their compensation
as owners of the property is fixed. If the granting of the
injunction sought should require the Government to operate these properties at a loss, the loss must be borne by

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

165

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the Government. Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255, 270;
InternationalPostal Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601;
Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627; Goldberg v. Daniels,
231 U. S. 218, 221, 222; Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221
U. S. 636, 642, 648; Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick
R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 446, 456; Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335;
Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 16, 17.
These cases are unlike those where an officer in excess of
authority is invading the property of another or is withholding property from another to which the other person
has a right, and are therefore different from such cases
as School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94;
Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; United States
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196.
The purpose and effect of the joint resolution and proclamation was completely and exclusively to vest the possession and control of defendants' telephone systems in
the President through the Postmaster General as his appointee on behalf of the United States.
The taking possession and assuming control and operation by the President under the joint resolution, constituted
said systems public utilities operated by the Government,
and made it the right and duty of the President and his
representative to fix the charge to be paid for service.
The operation of the lines thus became a part of the
war activities of the Government,-the utilization of the
public utilities in its prosecution. Ex parte Milligan,
4 Wall. 2; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457; Stewart v.
Kahn, 11 Wall. 493.
Where the works of a common carrier are used by the
Government to carry on a service which is used by the
community, such as cars for carrying the mail, and the
carrier is utilized to conduct such business, the carrier is
as to it a servant of the Government and not a common
carrier conducting the business as part of its business,
and the rules of law prevailing between private parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

250 U. S.

do not fix the relations of the parties. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 640, 649;
State of Alabama v. Burleson, 82 So. Rep. 458; Pensacola
Tel. Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1, 9, 10; Attorney General v. Edison Telephone Co. of London, L. R. 6
Q. B. 244; Railroad Commission of Louisiana v. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. (Supreme Court of
Louisiana.)
No police power of the State is impaired or affected by
not submitting the rates fixed by the officers of the United
States to state control, because not only the police regulations of the State do not affect rates made by the Government itself, but the police power does not extend to such
a subject. The public has acted and fixed the rate when
the public officer of the United States fixed it. The interest of the United States in this property is not private
but public, and its protection would be the rule of law
that the powers of a State do not extend to interference
with the United States in the use of its property
The proviso to the resolution respecting the laws and
powers of the States in relation to taxation or the lawful
police regulations of the several States does not apply to
and cover either the taxation of the United States or the
regulation of prices to be charged by it for its operation
of said property. If the United States was, prior to the
adoption of this resolution, not subject itself to be taxed
by a State in respect to property owned by it, or income
therefrom, this proviso did not propose to enlarge the
power of the State by subjecting the United States to such
taxation. All it proposed to do was to protect the "existing laws or powers of the States in relation to taxation"
from being impaired. The utmost which the resolution
purported to do was to provide for the United States acquiring a right of temporary possession, control, and operation of the telegraph, telephone, etc., systems, for which
it should pay. This still left the then owners of the prop-

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

167

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

erty as owners; and as between themselves and the United
States, as a quasi-tenant, the owners are responsible to the
State for, and bound to pay, the taxes thereon.
If the income of the corporation owning the telephone
system was subject to taxation, then under this proviso
whatever the United States Government pays to it for
the use of the property would remain subject to the state
income tax. It can claim no exemption because of its
source.

So with the police regulations of the State, where the
owner of a public-service corporation rents its property to
another, such landlord still remains liable to the State
for the observance of all police regulations in the primary
and ordinary sense of that term, as contradistinguished
from the wide definition sometimes given to the words
"police power," and can not plead the renting as relieving
it from liability. Railroad Company v. Brown, 17 Wall.
445, 450. But in this case it was the United States-a
non-suable person, one not amenable to state jurisdiction-who was about to be put into possession and to operate
the properties. The taking was, in a sense, compulsory
and this might raise a question of the application of the
rule. Hence, it was provided that such lessee in the conduct of its property should observe the regulations for the
benefit of the safety, health, and morals of the community,
which were considered as always resting upon the property, regardless of who was operating it. An exception,
however, was made in favor of government messages,
because these might be of such urgency in the direct conduct of the war, or the administration of the Government
during the war, as to override all regulations, because of
urgency. The other exception also points to the fact that
only such police regulations as would continue to affect
the duty and obligation of the owner of the property and
not the interests of the United States, were continued to
the States. It was important, in order to continue the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

250 U. S.

systems unimpaired in efficiency, and especially in condition to be restored in proper financial condition to the
owners, that such systems should be able to finance themselves during this period where necessary under the then
existing federal regulations as to bond and stock issues.
Many of the States had heavy taxes on issues of securities,
even renewed bonds, (Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Public
,Service Commission, 248 U. S. 67), and also police regulations such as the Blue Sky Laws, intended to protect
the public against overcapitalization, fraudulent stock
issues, and the like. These provisions are often calculated
to delay the issue of stocks and bonds even where haste is
desirable. The action of these corporations was, therefore,
withdrawn to this extent from the operation of the taxing
laws and lawful police regulations existing at that time in
the States. Doubtless the federal regulations existing
were considered sufficient.
The lawful police regulations of the several States which
are not affected by the resolution of July 16, 1918, are
the police regulations in their strict and accurate sense,
and do not embrace the exercise of powers falling under
the definition of police powers in their broadest sense.
It is to be noticed that Congress, while preserving from
any effect of the resolution all existing laws and powers of
the State in relation to taxation, did not use the words
"police power." In its broadest signification, the term
"police power" is practically synonymous with the States'
reserved powers of sovereignty. License Tax Cases, 5 How.
504, 582, 583; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 59. But in
its primary or ordinary meaning it embraces only the power
to make regulations concerning the health, safety, morals,
etc., of the public. This narrower meaning is the one more
often ascribed to the term. Manigault v. Springs, 199 U.
S. 473, 481.
It is well settled that the police power in the primary
sense cannot be bartered away. Stone v. Mississippi, 101

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

169

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

U. S. 814; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S.
583, 597. It is equally well settled that a State or its
local government when so empowered may make a binding
contract divesting itself for a substantial period of time
of the power to regulate rates. Home Telephone Co. v.
Los Angeles, 211 U. S.273; Minneapolis v. Street Ry. Co.,
215 U. S. 417.
The power to regulate rates is subject to the limitation
that it must afford to a private owner of the utility a
reasonable return on his property devoted to the public
use. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.466; Stanislaus County v.
San Joaquin &c. Co., 192 U. S. 201. A State in the
exercise of its police power in the primary sense may
regulate a business to the point of suppression without
making compensation. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623;
Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Milwaukee, 97 Wisconsin, 418.
The phrase "police powers" is as familiar as the phrase
"power of taxation," and the use of the word powers in the
one instance and the omission of it in the other is extremely
significant.
It seems clear that if Congress had intended to confer
upon the States the power to regulate the rates at which
the United States will furnish telephone service, it would
not have expressed that intention by a reservation to the
States of their "police regulations." One does not ordinarily think of a schedule of rates as a "police regulation."
The field of police regulation in the primary sense as evidenced by statutes and city ordinances, regulating height
of wires, placing of poles, etc., shows the wide field of
action of the proviso as construed by the Postmaster
General.
When the history of the times and necessities of the
situation are considered, it should require very plain
language to give to this proviso a meaning which would
compel these operations to be conducted, as to the most
essential feature thereof, to wit, the revenues to be de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

rived therefrom to be expended in such operations not
by the President and his appointees, but under the ultimate control in each State.
It is to be noticed that this resolution was approved
July 16, 1918, some months after the passage of the Federal Control Act of March 21, 1918. The States would
have had no more right to regulate intrastate rates without
ยง 10 of the Federal Control Act than they have with said
section in existence. The provisions of ยง 10, however, are
very convincing as to the meaning of ยง 15 and of the words
"the lawful police regulations" used in said section.
The meaning of these words in ยง 15 of the Federal Control Act is to be taken as the meaning of the same words
derived from it and written into the joint resolution of
July 16, 1918. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; McDonaldv. Hovey,
110 U. S. 619, 628.
The debate on this resolution in the Senate sustains the
view that the words "lawful police regulations" were
used in the ordinary and primary sense.
The provisions of state statutes providing for the regulation of rates charged by private persons and corporations
operating public utilities do not by their terms apply to
rates charged by agents of the Government in the operation of such utilities.
Mr. Oliver E. Sweet, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of South Dakota, with whom Mr. Byron S. Payne,
Attorney General of the State of South Dakota, was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The rights of telephone companies are derived from the
States. The only regulation of them in the past has been
by the States, under their police powers, and the making
and regulating of rates with respect to intrastate operations has always been upheld as an exercise of state
police power.

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

171

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The controlling purpose of Congress was to unify and
utilize the telephone property for the purposes of the
Government in the event of an emergency such as that
which paralyzed the railroads. But there is nothing in
our experience to indicate in any way that the control
of intrastate rates has ever been in any way needful or
desirable as an aid to the Government in the prosecution
of war. Under state regulation these companies had developed and extended their operations. Their rates in
effect when the resolution was passed had in many instances been established after, and as a result of, exhaustive investigations by bodies authorized by law and informed by experience. In many instances those rates had
received the approval of the courts. Rates established
under such circumstances were entitled to the presumption that they were reasonable and fair. The purpose,
therefore, of Congress in passing the resolution could not
have been primarily, or even incidentally, to enable the
telephone companies in time of war to increase their earnings. The controlling consideration was to facilitate the
handling of governmental business, and otherwise to
coardinate their facilities with other facilities under the
Government's control for the more efficient conduct of the
war. The regulation of intrastate rates bears no relation
to this controlling purpose; and the members of Congress who voted for the resolution and discussed it in the
houses of Congress were not of the view that in passing
it they were authorizing administrative officers of the
Federal Government to invade the domain of States'
rights. The proviso unquestionably indicates that Congress gave consideration to the question of the authority
of the States. If Congress had intended that the President should have the authority to initiate rates for telephone, telegraph, cable or radio systems, it could very
easily have said so. When Congress passed the Federal
Control Act of March 21, 1918, it authorized the Presi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

dent, under certain conditions, to initiate railroad rates.
The omission of a corresponding provision in the telephone resolution indicates the intention not to confer the
power to initiate telephone rates.
This controversy centers upon the construction of the
words "lawful police regulations," as used in this proviso.
The defendant in error contends that this language is to
be interpreted in the broad sense in which police regulations and police powers have been defined by the courts
in many cases in which they have considered the nature
of the power exercised by the States in the regulation of
the property, affairs, and rates of public utilities.
In placing upon the exercise by the States of their
police regulations the limitations that the same should not
affect the transmission of government communications or
the issue of stocks and bonds, it is clear that Congress did
not have in mind merely regulations made for the preservation of health, safety or public morals, because regulations of that character could not possibly seriously
affect transmission of government communications or the
issue of stocks and bonds. When it provided these limitations upon the lawful police regulations of the States
it had in mind regulations which the States might make,
of a character which might naturally and appreciably
affect the Government's use of wire lines or the issue of
securities by the telegraph and telephone companies.
What Congress had in mind, and what Congress foresaw,
was the possibility that a restrictive policy of rate regulation by the States might impair the credit of wire lines
to such an extent that the issuance of their stocks and
bonds could not be made with reasonable assurance of finding a favorable market. Because lawful police regulations
is a term sufficiently broad to comprehend, not only rate
regulations, but service requirements, Congress added the
provision that such regulations should not affect the
transmission of government communications. An unwise

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

173

Argument for Defendant in Error.

policy in the regulation of rates by States might result in
such a depletion of revenues as to prevent proper maintenance; or unwise requirements as to the furnishing of
service for the public might interfere with the proper and
necessary use by the Government for the handling of
official communications. Such a purpose was entirely
consistent with the main purpose of the Government in
asking for control and operation during the war. The
telephone companies would be greatly interested in the
rates and classifications of their service in effect at the
time of the termination of federal control, but during
federal control the Government was to guarantee just
compensation. How the Government should make good
its guaranty was a matter of fiscal policy and not a matter
of control or operation of the lines. In making such a
guaranty the Government assumed an obligation, just as
it has assumed many other obligations during the war,
which it will be obliged to pay by revenues derived from
one source or another. It is certain, at least, that the
efficiency of governmental supervision, control or operation was not in the remotest degree dependent upon the
manner in which the Government should raise the money
to make its guaranty good. Congress did not say in the
resolution that the funds to meet the guaranty should be
raised by rates to be established by the Postmaster General. That, however, is the provision which the plaintiffs
in error are now undertaking to read into the resolution
by construction and interpretation. That is the only basis
for their contention that the President or the Postmaster
General has, or ever had, any authority to increase or
otherwise regulate the rates or charges of telephone
systems under federal control.
The resolution is in no sense a revenue measure. It
was not passed with the legal formalities necessary in the
passing of a revenue law. Nevertheless, if it means all
that the plaintiffs in error contend, it is a revenue measure,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

because, under their interpretation, it authorizes the collection of revenues with which the Government shall make
good its guaranty of just compensation to the owners of
the wire lines under its control. It is not necessary to
invent any complicated construction of this language.
It says that the lawful police regulations of the States
shall not be affected. It was passed at a time when, under
their police powers and by means of police regulations,
the States had been exercising effective control over telephone companies for years.
It is a most natural assumption that if Congress had
intended to completely revolutionize these conditions and
the relations of the States to these utilities which they had
created, Congress would unquestionably have made that
intention very clear by appropriate language in the resolution. There was no occassion for inserting the term "lawful police regulations" except to assert that Congress proposed to exercise only the recognized and conceded powers
of the Federal Government.
In the decisions of the courts the terms "police powers"
and "police regulations" are used interchangeably and
indiscriminately in many cases. If any distinction whatever is recognized it is that police regulations relate to
the exercise of police powers and that through police regulations police powers are applied. We do not find in the
books any authority for any other difference in the significance of these terms. Wisconsin ex rel. Attorney General
v. Chicago & North Western Ry. Co., 35 Wisconsin, 425,
591; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 577, 851; 31
Cyc. 903; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Hammer v.
Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251; Fuller, Interstate Commerce,
p. 17; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Service
Corporation,248 U. S. 372.
The term "lawful police regulations," as it appears in
the joint resolution, has been construed in accordance
with the contention of the defendant in error in decisions

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

175

Argument for Defendant in Error.

rendered in the following, among other cases:

Public

Service Commission of Indiana v. Receivers of the Central
Union Telephone Co., Circuit Court Marion County, Indiana, decided February 21, 1919; Indiana v. Indianapolis
Telephone Co., decided in same court on same day; Commonwealth ex rel. Attorney General v. Bell Telephone
Co. of Pennsylvania, Court of Common Pleas, Dauphin
County, Pennsylvania, decided January 29, 1919; Illinois
v. Chicago Telephone Co., Superior Court, Cook County,
Illinois; Ohio v. Ohio State Telephone Co., Court of Common Pleas, Franklin County, Ohio, decided January 25,

1919; Mississippi ex rel. Collins, Attorney General, v. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co., 81 So. Rep. 404. A
broad and liberal construction should be made of these
words and of the proviso in which they are contained. The
joint resolution, as a whole, is a grant of power by Congress to the President; the concluding proviso in the resolution is a limitation to that grant. It is usual that
grants of power by legislation are strictly construed.
Governments of enumerated and limited jurisdictions
and officers possessing only powers delegated by law, are
confined within the limits of the acts defining their powers.

Chesapeake & Potomac Tel. Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S.
238. It is not reasonable to assume that, by making the
President the general supervisor of the telephone lines,
Congress intended to confer upon him, except in the
matter of facilitating government communications, any
greater rights in his relationship with the public than those
which the telephone companies themselves possessed.
We believe that there is the same need of local rate regulation and supervision by local authorities when the
business is carried on by the Federal Government as

when carried on by telegraph or telephone companies
whose properties extend over the entire nation. This
principle has been recognized when applied to rail-

roads incorporated under federal law.

Smyth v. Ames,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

169 U. S. 466; Reagan v. Mercantile Trust Co., 154
U. S. 413.
That the power to make and regulate rates of wire lines
is a power which cannot be inferred but must be positively
conferred by unambiguous language, is a proposition supported by many authorities. In Reid v. Colorado, 187
U. S. 137, the court said: "It should never be held that
Congress intends to supersede or by its legislation suspend the exercise of the police powers of the States, even
when it may do so, unless its purpose to effect that result is clearly manifested."
Congress cannot control intrastate rates under the commerce clause; nor under its war power, except when necessary and proper as a war measure. As in the case of
enactments of Congress, so in the case of official acts of
the President, it lies within the jurisdiction of the courts
to determine whether the same are necessary and proper
for carrying into execution any of his constitutional authority. Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115.
The only possible necessity for increasing the revenues
of telephone companies that appears in this case is the
necessity for the raising of revenues to enable the Government to compensate the telephone companies for the use
of their property. That is not a war purpose. Plainly,
the concluding proviso in the resolution indicates that in
the opinion of Congress there existed no military necessity
for increasing telephone toll rates. The President did not
proclaim that it was needful or desirable to increase intrastate telephone rates as a war measure. Neither did
the Postmaster General recit6 that such increases in telephone rates were necessary, or that they contributed in
any way to the successful prosecution of the war. Such
declaration or recital would not necessarily have determined the fact; if made, it would be the duty of the court
in a proper proceeding to go behind such recitals, for
otherwise it would be impossible to check the exercise of

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

177

Argument for Defendant in Error.

arbitary power. American School of Magnetic Healing v.
McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson,
223 U. S. 605, 620; Degge v. Hithcock, 229 U. S. 162, 171;
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196.
If the President undertook to control telephones by
virtue of the war powers, the fact is that the exercise
thereof, which it is the object of this case to test, was not
undertaken until a time had arrived when the highest
authorities of the Federal Government itself acknowledged that the war had ended. President's Messages of
November 11, and December 2, 1918; Pacific Lumber Co.
v. Northwestern & Pacific R. R. Co., 51 I. C. C. 738;
United States v. Hicks, 256 Fed. Rep. 707. These considerations have no bearing on the construction to be
made of the joint resolution, but they have an important
bearing upon the contention of the defendant that the
Postmaster General's order of December 13, 1918, effective January 21, 1919, has any warrant as a war measure.
Even if Congress might authorize the President to change
and increase South Dakota intrastate rates under the war
powers of Congress and the President, still no attempt
was made to exercise such power during the war or pursuant to any war purpose or in accordance with any plan
for prosecuting the wax. The Postmaster General did
not promulgate his order until after all necessity for the
regulation of such rates as a war measure had passed.
Congress cannot confer legislative power upon the President to make rates for the future. Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649, 692, 693.
The suit is not one against the United States, the
President or the Postmaster General; and its purpose was
not to control revenue or property of the United States.
The defendants are wrongdoers, and cannot defend upon
the ground that they acted under orders which the President or Postmaster General was without authority to issue.
It is within the power of the court to determine the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Amici Curiw.

250 U. S.

limits of executive authority, and to restrain acts in excess thereof; This suit is not one to control administrative
discretion, but to restrain acts in threatened violation of
law and in excess of legal authority. Ex parte Milligan,
4 Wall. 2, 120, 121; Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S.
636, 643, 644; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605,
619, 620.
The acts of the telephone companies sought to be enjoined are not acts of the Federal Government, because
beyond its powers. It is not sought in this case to control the President's discretion, because it relates to a
matter wholly beyond his jurisdiction.
Mr. William I. Schaffer, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Bernard J. Myers,
Deputy Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, by leave of court filed a brief as amici curice,
on behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Charles E. Elmquist, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amicus curice, on behalf of thirty-seven States
and the National Association of Railway and Utilities
Commissioners.
Mr. John J. Blaine, Attorney General of the State of
Wisconsin, Mr. M. B. Olbrich, Deputy Attorney General
of the State of Wisconsin, and Mr. Joseph E. Messerschmidt, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin, by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curice,
on behalf of the State of Wisconsin.
Mr. Hal H. Smith, Mr. David H. Crowley and Mr.
Clarence D. Wilcox, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amici curice, on behalf of the City of Detroit.
Mr. H. Findlay French and Mr. Ogle Marbury, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curice, on behalf of the

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

179

Opinion of the Court.

Protective Telephone Association of Baltimore City,
Maryland, et al.
Mr. Albert C. Ritchie, Attorney General of the State of
Maryland, by leave of court, filed a brief as amicus curiwe,
on behalf of the State of Maryland.
ME. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

Involving as this case does the existence of state power
to regulate, without the consent of the United States,
telephone rates for business done wholly within the State
over lines taken over into the possession of the United
States and which by the exercise of its governmental authority it operates and controls, it does not in principle
differ from the North Dakota Case just announced [Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, ante, 135,] where it was
decided that under like conditions the State had no such
power as to railroad rates. We consider this case as far
as may be necessary, by a separate opinion, however, because the authority under which the control was exerted
is distinct and because of the assumption in argument that
this distinction begets a difference in the principles applicable.
In January, 1919, the State of South Dakota on the
relation of its Attorney General and Railroad Commissioners sued the Dakota Central and other telephone companies doing business within the State to enjoin them from
putting in effect a schedule of rates as to local business
which it was alleged had been prepared by the Postmaster
General and which it was averred the telephone companies
were about to apply and enforce. It was charged that such
rates were higher than those fixed by state authority and
that the proposed action of the companies would be violative of state law, since the companies were under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

duty to disregard the action of the Postmaster General
and apply only the lawful state rates. The duty of the
relators, as state officers, to prevent such wrong was
alleged,-a duty in which, it was further asserted, the
State had a pecuniary interest springing from the expenditure which it was obliged to make for telephone services.
The companies answered, disclaiming all interest in the
controversy on the ground that by contract, a copy of
which with one of the defendant companies was annexed,
their telephone lines and everything appurtenant thereto
had passed into the possession and control of the United
States and were being operated by it as a governmental
agency. The answer also alleged that any connection of
the companies through their officials or employees with the
business was solely because of employment by the United
States. The purpose to enforce the rates fixed by the
Postmaster General was admitted and it was averred that
the suit was one over which the court had no jurisdiction
because it was against the United States.
The case was heard on the bill, answer, exhibits and an
admission by all the parties that the contract annexed to
the answer was accurate and that a similar one had been
made with all the other defendants.
Assuming that Congress had power to take over the
telephone lines; that it had conferred that power upon
the President; that the power had by the President been
called into play conformably to the authority granted,
and that the telephone lines were under the complete
control of the United States, the court yet held that the
State had the power to fix the local rates. In reaching
this conclusion the court, assuming argumentatively that
the right which the United States possessed gave at least
the implied authority to fix all rates, nevertheless held
that such power did not embrace intrastate rates because
they had been carved out of the grant of power by Congress in conferring authority on the President. It was

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. Co.
163.

v. SOUTH DAKOTA.

181

Opinion of the Court.

therefore decided that the President, the Postmaster General and those operating the telephone service under his
authority were mere wrongdoers in giving effect to the
rates fixed by the Postmaster General and in refusing to
enforce the conflicting intrastate rates made lawful by
state law. The proceedings to prevent this wrong, it was
held, did not constitute a suit against the United States
and the injunction prayed was granted.
The appellees do not confine their contention to the
question of statutory construction below decided. On the
contrary, they press questions of power which the court
below assumed and did not pass upon, and insist upon a
construction of the statute contrary to that which the
court below took for granted as a prelude to the question
of construction upon which it based its conclusion.
We must dispose of the issues thus insisted upon before
testing the soundness of the interpretation of the statute
upon which the court below acted, and for the purpose of
considering them as well as the question of construction
which the court below expressly decided, we state the
case.

On the 16th of July, 1918, Congress adopted a joint
resolution (40 Stat. 904, c. 154), providing:
"That the President during the continuance of the
present war is authorized and empowered, whenever he
shall deem it necessary for the national security or defense,
to supervise or to take possession and assume control of
any telegraph, telephone, marine cable, or radio system
or systems, or any part thereof, and to operate the same
in such manner as may be needful or desirable for the
duration of the war, which supervision, possession, control,

or operation shall not extend beyond the date of the proclamation by the President of the exchange of ratifications
of the treaty of peace: Provided, That just compensation
shall be made for such supervision, possession, control,
or operation, to be determined by the President;

.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Provided further, That nothing in this Act shall be construed to amend, repeal, impair, or affect existing laws or
powers of the States in relation to taxation or the lawful
police regulations of the several States, except wherein such
laws, powers, or regulations may affect the transmission of
Government communications, or the issue of stocks and
bonds by such system or systems."
Six days thereafter, on the 22nd of July, the President
exerted the power thus given. Its exercise was manifested
by a proclamation which, after reciting the resolution of
Congress, declared:
"It is deemed necessary for the national security and
defense to supervise and to take possession and assume
control of all telegraph and telephone systems and to
operate the same in such manner as may be needful or
desirable;
"Now, Therefore, I, Woodrow Wilson, President of the
United States, under and by virtue of the powers vested
in me by the foregoing resolution, and by virtue of all
other powers thereto me enabling, do hereby take possession and assume control and supervision of each and every
telegraph and telephone system, and every part thereof,
within the jurisdiction of the United States, including all
equipment thereof and appurtenances thereto whatsoever
and all materials and supplies.
"It is hereby directed that the supervision, possession,
control, and operation of such telegraph and telephone
systems hereby by me undertaken shall be exercised by
.
." [40 Stat.
and through the Postmaster General.
1807.]
The proclamation gave to the Postmaster General
plenary power to exert his afithority to the extent he might
deem desirable through the existing owners, managers,
directors or officers of the telegraph or telephone lines,
and it was provided that their services might continue as
permitted by general or special orders of the Postmaster

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

183

Opinion of the Court.

General. It was declared that "from and after twelve
o'clock midnight on the 31st day of July, 1918, all telegraph and telephone systems included in this order and
proclamation shall conclusively be deemed within the
possession and control and under the supervision of said
Postmaster General without further act or notice."
Under this authority the Postmaster General assumed
possession and control of the telephone lines and operated
the same. On the 31st day of October, 1918, the President
through the Postmaster General, in the execution of the
duty imposed upon him by the resolution of Congress to
make compensation, concluded a contract with the telephone companies of the most comprehensive character
covering the whole field while the possession, control and
operation by the United States continued. By its terms
stipulated amounts were to be paid as consideration for
the possession, control and operation by the United States
and the earnings resulting from such operation became
the property of the United States. Although concluded in
October, 1918, by stipulation the contract related back to
the time when the President took over the property.
Following this, by authority of the President, the Postmaster General fixed a general schedule of rates and it was
the order to put this schedule in effect which gave rise to
the suit, the trial, and the resulting judgment which we
have now under consideration.
That under its war power Congress possessed the right
to confer upon the President the authority which it gave
him we think needs nothing here but statement, as we
have disposed of that subject in the North Dakota Railroad
Rate Case. And the completeness of the war power under
which the authority was exerted and by which completeness its exercise is to be tested suffices, we think, to dispose
of the many other contentions urged as to the want of
power in Congress to confer upon the President the authority which it gave him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

The proposition that the President in exercising the
power exceeded the authority given him is based upon
two considerations. First, because there was nothing
in the conditions at the time the power was exercised which
justified the calling into play of the authority; indeed, the
contention goes further and assails the motives which it
is asserted induced the exercise of the power. But as the
contention at best concerns not a want of power, but a
mere excess or abuse of discretion in exerting a power
given, it is clear that it involves considerations which are
beyond the reach of judicial power. This must be since,
as this court has often pointed out, the judicial may. not
invade the legislative or executive departments so as to
correct alleged mistakes or wrongs arising from asserted
abuse of discretion.
The second contention, although it apparently rests
upon the assertion that there was an absence of power in
the President to exert the authority to the extent to which
he did exert it, when it is correctly understood amounts
only to an asserted limitation on the power granted based
upon a plain misconception of the terms of the resolution
of Congress by which the power was given. In other
words, it assumes that by the resolution only a limited
power as to the telephone lines was conferred upon the
President, and hence that the assumption by him of complete possession and control was beyond the authority
possessed. But although it may be conceded that there is
some ground for contending, in view of the elements of
authority enumerated in the resolution of Congress, that
there was power given to take less than the whole if the
President deemed it best to do so, we are of opinion that
authority was conferred as to all the enumerated elements
and that there was hence a right in the President to take
complete possession and control to enable the full operation of the lines embraced in the authority. The contemporaneous official steps taken to give effect to the resolu-

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

185

Opinion of the Court.

tion, the proclamation of the President, the action of the
Postmaster General under the authority of the President,
the contracts made with the telephone companies in pursuance of authority to fix their compensation, all establish
the accuracy of this view, since they all make it clear that
it was assumed that power to take full control was conferred and that it was exerted so as to embrace the entire
business and the right to the entire revenues to arise from
the act of the United States in carrying it out. Indeed,
Congress in subsequently dealing with the situation thus
produced would seem to have entertained the same conception as to the scope of the power conveyed by the resolution and dealt with it from that point of view. Act of
October 29, 1918, c. 197, 40 Stat. 1017.
This brings us to the proposition upon which the court
based its conclusion, that is, that although complete
possession, exclusive control, and the right to all the revenues derived from the operation of the business were in
the United States as the result of the resolution, the proclamation, and the contracts, yet as to intrastate earnings,
the state power remained to "encumber" the authority
of the United States, because that situation necessarily
resulted from the terms of the congressional resolution.
This superficially was based on an interpretation of the
resolution, but in substance was caused by the application
to the clause of the resolution interpreted, of the erroneous
presumption as to the continuance of state power dealt with
in the North Dakota Case. Let us see if this is not necessarily so. The provision dealt with was the proviso of the
resolution which in the first place saved "the lawful police
regulations of the several States" and therefore subjected
the control of the United States to the operation of such
power; and in the second place prohibited the States during the United States control from exerting authority as
to the issue of stocks and bonds.
It was conceded that the words "police power" were

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

susceptible of two significations, a comprehensive one
embracing in substance the whole field of state authority
and the other a narrower one including only state power
to deal with the health, safety and morals of the people.
Although it was admitted that the reservation, considered
intrinsically, was not susceptible of being interpreted in
the broader of the two lights, it was held that it was necessary to so interpret it because of the clause of the proviso
prohibiting the States from legislating concerning the
issue of stocks and bonds by the companies during the
United States control. The reasoning was this: It was
inconceivable, it was said, that the subject, stocks and
bonds, should have been withdrawn from state control by
an express prohibition unless that subject would have been
under state control in the absence of the prohibition, a
result which could only exist by giving the saving clause
as to police power its widest significance. But the fact
that the rule of construction applied had the result of incorporating in the act of Congress unlimited state authority merely as the result of a prohibition by Congress
against the exertion of state power in a specific instance,
in and of itself admonishes of the incorrectness of the rule.
But its want of foundation is established by two further
considerations: (1) because it causes the provision as to
stocks and bonds, which was plainly enacted to preserve
the financial control of the United States over the corporations, to limit if not destroy such control; (2) because by
converting the prohibition against state power into an
affirmative and comprehensive grant of that power, it so
interprets the act as to limit the grant of authority which
the act beyond doubt gave to the United States. These
considerations not only show the mistake of the interpretation, but also point out the confusion and conflict which
must necessarily arise from giving effect to the mistaken
presumption of the continuance of state power to which we
have previously referred.

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
163.

187

Opinion of the Court.

Inherently the power of a State to fix rates to be charged
for intrastate carriage or transmission is in its nature but
derivative, since it arises from and depends upon the duty
of those engaged in intrastate commerce to charge only
reasonable rates for the services by them rendered, and the
authority possessed by the State to exact a compliance
with that duty. Conceding that it was within the power
of Congress, subject to constitutional limitations, to transplant the state power as to intrastate rates into a sphere
where it, Congress, had complete control over telephone
lines because it had taken possession of them and was operating them as a governmental agency, it must follow
that in such sphere there would be nothing upon which the
state power could be exerted except upon the power of the
United States, that is, its authority to fix rates for the
services which it was rendering through its governmental
agencies. The anomaly resulting from such conditions
adds cogency to the reasons by which in the North Dakota
Case the error in presuming the continuance of state power
in such a situation was pointed out and makes it certain
that such a result could be brought about only by clear expression or at least from the most convincing implication.
This disposes of the case, but before leaving it we observe that we have not overlooked in its consideration the
references made to proceedings in Congress concerning
the resolution at the time of its passage, and further, that
we have also considered all the suggestions made in the
many and voluminous briefs filed on behalf of various
state authorities and individuals having interests in suits
pending elsewhere, concerning the construction of the
resolution. In saying this, however, we must except suggestions as to want of wisdom or necessity for conferring
the power given, or as to the precipitate or uncalled for
exertion of the power as conferred, from all of which we
have turned aside because the right to consider them was
wholly beyond the sphere of judicial authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff.

250 U. S.

In view of our conclusion we shall in this case, as we
did in the previous one and for the reasons therein stated,
content ourselves with reversing the judgment below upon
the merits with directions for such further proceedings
as may be not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JusTice BRANDEIS dissents.

STATE OF KANSAS v. BURLESON, POSTMASTER
GENERAL, ET AL.
IN EQUITY.
No. 31, Original.

Argued May 5, 6, 1919.--Decided June 2, 1919.

Decided on the authority of Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South
Dakota, ante, 163.
Bill dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred S. Jackson, with whom Mr. Richard J. Hopkins, Attorney General of the State of Kansas, and Mr. A.
E. Helm were on the brief, for plaintiff:
The suit is one which may be maintained in the name
of the State and of which this court has original jurisdiction.
The action of the President under the joint resolution
was taken in pursuance of his authority under the civil
law and not in any sense under the authority of military or
martial law, nor in the exercise of his authority as commander-in-chief of the army and navy. Where federal
authority is unopposed and the courts open for adminis-

