ALASKA SMOKELESS COAL CO. v. LANE.

549

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES ON THE RELATION OF ALASKA
SMOKELESS COAL COMPANY v. LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 36. Argued October 14, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.
rhe Act of April 28, 1904, ยง 1, c. 1772, 33 Stat. 525, provided that the
locator of unsurveyed coal land in Alaska "shall have opened or improved a coal mine;" upon an application for patent the Secretary
of the Interior construed this as requiring that the work done evince
a purpose to open or improve a producing mine; and, examining the
undisputed facts as to the work relied on, which consisted of more or
less superficial excavations exposing coal, found that it was done
for prospecting purposes and that it did not satisfy the statute.
fIeld, not arbitrary even if erroneous; and not subject to revision
by mandamus. P. 552.
Held, further, that the Secretary's discretion in the matter was not
foreclosed by rulings in earlier cases, as to what constitutes the
opening or improvement of a mine, said to have been relied on in
the making of the locations, but the effect of which is found not to
be inconsistent with the decision complained of. P. 553.
46 App. D. C. 443, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Dean Burkheimer, with whom Mr. Charles E.
Shepard, Mr. James R. Caton, Mr. Stanton C. Peelle and
Mr. C. F. R. Ogilby were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom The
Solicitor General was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Petition for mandamus to require the Secretary of the
Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

to approve and pass to patent the application of the petitioner for certain coal claims, or to show cause why they
have not done so.
Respondents replied that they are constituted by law
the sole agents of the Government in the administration
and disposal of the public lands by and through the means
appointed by Congress and have exclusive jurisdiction
to determine the validity of all claims or applications to
enter or acquire any part of them, and that the discharge
of that duty involves judgment and discretion.
And further replied that petitioner sought to acquire
title to the coal claims under the Act of April 28, 1904,
c. 1772, 33 Stat. 525, and the Act of May 28, 1908, c.
211, 35 Stat. 424, by virtue of the locations set out in the
petition. That the locations came on to be heard and that
they, respondents, after considering all of the evidence
and applying the law thereto, found and determined that
the locations involved were invalid, the locators not having
opened or improved any mine or mines of coal on any of
the tracts of land in controversy as required by the cited
statutes, and that petitioner was not entitled to purchase
the same, and thereupon respondents in the exercise of
their discretion and judgment rejected the application.
Hence they prayed that the rule against them be discharged and the petition dismissed.
Petitioner demurred to the reply on the ground that
it did not set forth any substantial or legal defense. The
demurrer was overruled and petitioner electing to stand
upon it, the rule to show cause was discharged and the
petition dismissed. The judgment was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals.
The question in the case, therefore, is direct, that is,
the power of the Land Office under the cited statutes and
the facts recited in the petition. This power, we may say
at the outset, necessarily is something more than ministerial, the mere yielding to and registry of any demand,

ALASKA SMOKELESS COAL CO. v. LANE.

551

Opinion of the Court.

549.

and yet, on the other hand, not arbitrary, without statutory direction or regulation by settled rules and principles.
In other words, the Land Office is like any other tribunalits institution and purpose defining and measuring its
power, the determining elements being those of fact and
law, upon which necessarily judgment must be passed.
What are the elements of fact and of law in the present
case? As set forth in the petition they are these:
Sections 2347 to 2352 of the Revised Statutes provide
for the entry of vacant coal lands, 160 acres to an individual, 320 acres to an association, who have opened and improved, or shall "open and improve, [italics ours] any coal
mine or mines upon the public lands" (ยง 2348).
These sections were extended to Alaska by an act passed
June 6, 1900, [c. 796, 31 Stat. 658] and the latter act was
amended by the Act of April 28, 1904, supra, ยง 1 of which
provides "That any person or association of persons
qualified to make entry under the coal-land laws of the
United States, who shall have opened or improved [italics
ours] a coal mine or coal mines on any of the unsurveyed
public lands of the United States in the district of Alaska,
may locate the lands upon which such mine or mines are
situated.

.

.

Section 2 of the act provides for the application for and
issue of patent.
The Act of May 28, 1908, provides for the consolidation
of claims and their inclusion in a single claim. It is otherwise of no importance.
It will be observed that the only substantial difference
between the sections of the Revised Statutes and the act
extending them to Alaska is that by the former the right
of location is granted to one or those "who have opened
and improved" a mine or mines, and by the latter the
grant is to one or those "who shall have opened or improved" a mine or mines.
Petitioner in great volume asserts locations under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Act of April 28, 1904, to which locations it has succeeded.
The facts concerning them are not in dispute; but whether
what was done constituted an opening or improvement of
mines and constrained a decision other than that given by
the Land Office, is in dispute.
Eight locations were made, all of which were conveyed
by the asserted locators to petitioner in March, 1909.
Surveys were made of the locations, which surveys were
duly examined and filed in the proper land office in Alaska;
and in 1909 petitioner paid to the Treasurer of the United
States ten dollars for each acre surveyed, in the aggregate
$9,905.74, and made application to the then Secretary
of the Interior through the local land office for a patent,
tendering due proof of the locations of each applicant.
Notice was posted.
April 26, 1912, at the local land office (Juneau), under
the direction of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, proceedings were instituted against the application
of petitioner upon the ground, among others, that neither
of the claimants prior to making the locations or at any
time thereafter and prior to filing notice of the locations,
opened or improved any mine or mines of coal on any of
the tracts of land as required by the Act of April 28, 1904.
Proofs were taken upon the charges and the register and
receiver sustained them and decided and recommended
that the application for a patent be rejected.
Upon an appeal to the Commissioner the decision of the
local officers was approved after a circumstantial review
of the case; and again upon appeal from the Commissioner's decision, by the Secretary of the Interior.
All of the officers decided that the acts of Congress contemplated as a basis of a valid location the opening and
developing of a producing mine of coal and that work performed upon a claim for prospecting purposes does not
fulfill the requirement. And that such was the character
of the work done upon the claims in question was the de-

ALASKA SMOKELESS COAL CO. v. LANE.
549.

553

Opinion of the Court.

duction of the officers. "Shallow surface cuts and openings " the work was denominated, and not made "for the
purpose of the opening or improving of a producing coal
mine or mines."
The characterization, purpose and effect thus ascribed
to the work of the claimants are contested and it is insisted that the amount and effect of the work done constituted an opening and improving of mines and constrained an opposite conclusion and judgment from that
of the Land Office, and it is insisted, indeed, that a contrary conclusion was constrained not only by the provisions of the statutes but by previous rulings of the department, under the assurance of which the locations were
made and thereby acquired the quality of vested rights to
be recognized by the issue of patent as a matter of coursean irresistible right, therefore, having legal remedy in mandamus. It is hence insisted that "the respondent [Secretary of the Interior] and his said subordinates have erred,
not in the facts, but in their interpretation and construction of the acts of Congress and of the law pertaining to
coal mines in or under public lands of the United States in
Alaska, and to the rights of location, application and patent thereof by locators and their assigns . . . and
thereby exceeding his and their powers and jurisdiction."
The contention is repeated in petitioner's brief in various
ways and illustrations. Cases besides are cited with the
assertion that in such situation there is no room for the
exercise of "discretion" but that it is the imperative
duty of the Secretary to issue a patent, the right to it having become vested.
Undoubtedly there may be cases in which rights had
actually accrued and nothing remained to the Secretary
but their recognition, and counsel have collected and urged
such as they deem in point; 1 but the present case lacks
ICudney v. Flannery, 1 L. D. 165; M. K. & T. Ry. v. Buck (L. D.

unreported); Miner v. Mariott, 2 L. D. 709; Milne v. Ellsworth, 3 L. D.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

their essential condition. The decision of the local land
officers and that of the Commissioner and Secretary disprove the assumption that counsel make that there was
only an interpretation and construction of the acts of Congress. On the contrary there was a painstaking consideration and review of the evidence and a determination of its
probative strength, and the deduction was that what was
done was for prospecting purposes merely and did not satisfy the requirements of the acts of Congress-a purpose
to open or improve a mine or mines. And necessarily
there is a difference in the purposes, a difference between
a mere discovery or exposition of a vein of mineral and its
development. Counsel's contention confounds the difference and insists that it is established by the rulings in
prior cases in the department that a mine is opened or improved by an "actual excavation of the earth, whether by
open cut or tunnel, so as to expose a vein of coal, which is
the coal mine." And this, it is contended, has become a
principle of decision and has the insistent quality of stare
decisis-commanding a specific conclusion, superseding
by its automatism any discretionary function in the land
officers.
It is not necessary to review the cases. It is enough to
say that they have not the inflexibility ascribed to them.
And this can be illustrated. Counsel speak of exposition
of a vein by a "cut or tunnel." How deep or extensive
must either be to invoke the principle? And is the principle confined to such or is it applicable whatever the kind
Dr extent of the work-by any disturbance of the surface
:r without any disturbance if the vein be above the sur213; Henry W. Fuss, 5 L. D. 167; Oliver v. Thomas, 5 L. D. 289; Watts v.

!?orsyth, 5 L. D. 624; Williams v. Loew, 12 L. D. 297; James B. Weaver,
35 L. D. 553; Roy McDonald, 36 L. D. 205; Oliver v. Bates, 36 L. D.
123; Bertram C. Noble, 43 L. D. 75; Fisher v. Heirs of Rule, 43 L. D.
217; Siletz Indian Lands, 42 L. D. 244; Rough Rider and other Lode
Vining Claims, 42 L. D. 584.

ALASKA SMOKELESS COAL CO. v. LANE.
549.

555

Opinion of the Court.

face? Manifestly judgment in all cases must be exercised
-judgment not only of the law but what was done under
the law, and its sufficiency to avail of the grant of the law.
In Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316, it was
said that Congress has constituted the Land Department
the administrator of the public lands and for the discharge
of this duty invested it with judicial functions which are
not subject to review by injunction or mandamus. This
was repeated and applied in Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683.
Counsel contest the application of these cases and distinguish them from that at bar by the difference between
ministerial and judicial action, and assert "that the Secretary has essentially altered the law by converting the
essential terms of it, upon which our rights are based, to
terms of another meaning, and that that is an arbitrary
act which the courts can control and overrule." If the
accusation were true the conclusion might follow; but the
accusation is not true. We rest on this declaration. It
would extend this opinion too much to trace through the
ingenuity of counsel's reasoning in a very long brief and
the citation and analysis of many cases the distinction they
rely on, that is, the distinction between formal and discretionary action. Undoubtedly there is that distinction.
Lane v. Hoglund, 244 U. S. 174. But where there is discretion, as we think there is in this case, even though its
conclusion be disputable, it is impregnable to mandamus.
Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock and Ness v. Fisher, supra.
Judgment affirmed.

