CHES. & DEL. CANAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

123

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

CHESAPEAKE & DELAWARE CANAL COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 192.

Argued April 17, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

It is a perversion of the rule requiring assignments of error to multiply
them unnecessarily. P. 124.
State statutes of limitations and the principle of laches are inapplicable to the United States when asserting governmental rights.
P. 125.
Semble, that the presumption of payment arising from the lapse of
twenty years without suit to collect does not apply to the United
States in such cases. Id.
The collection of dividends declared on corporate shares owned by the
United States is an assertion of its right as creditor unaffected by its
relations as shareholder, and, in suing for such dividends, they being
public moneys applicable only to public purposes, the United States
acts in its governmental capacity. P. 126.
Books of the Treasury Department, showing the miscellaneous receipts
and disbursements of the Government, printed from the written
public records of the Department, pursuant to the acts of Congress
and Art. I, § 9, cl. 7, of the Constitution, and used as original records
in the daily business of the Department and produced from its custody, held, competent evidence, without certification under Rev.
Stats., § 882, for the purpose of proving the nonpayment as well as
the payment of dividends by a private corporation to the United
States. P. 127.
Evidence held sufficient to show that dividends sued for by the Government many years after they were declared were never paid, and to
sustain refusal of defendant's motion for a directed verdict. P. 129.
240 Fed. Rep. 903, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles J. Biddle, with whom Mr. Charles Biddle,
Mr. Andrew C. Gray, Mr. J. Rodman Paul and Mr. R.
Mason Lisle were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

The Solicitor General, Mr. Assistant to the Attorney
General Todd and Mr. Lincoln R. Clark, for the United
States, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE CLARI

delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1912 the United States sued the Canal Company to
recover the amount of three dividends which had been
declared on shares of its capital stock owned by the Government, in the years 1873, 1875, and 1876, payment
of which, it was averred, had been refused when demand
was made therefor in the year 1911.
After various vicissitudes the case went to trial on issue
joined on the plea of payment by the Company and it
comes into this court on writ of error to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
There are forty-one assignments of error in this court,
which counsel in their brief compress into five questions,
and these resolve themselves, at once, into three, viz.:
(1) The applicability of the statute of limitations of the
State of Delaware; (2) The admissibility in evidence of
certain books of the Department of the Treasury; and
(3) The propriety of a requested instruction in favor of
the Canal Company.
Such a record constrains us to repeat the following:
"This practice of unlimited assignments is a perversion
of the rule, defeating all its purposes, bewildering the
counsel of the other side, and leaving the court to gather
from a brief, often as prolix as the assignments of error,
which of the latter are really relied on." Phillips & Colby
Construction Co. v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646, 648; Grayson
v. Lynch, 163 U. S. 468, and Central Vermont Ry. Co. v.
White, 238 U. S. 507.
The plea of the statute of limitations was rejected by
both lower courts, and, although the specific assignment
of this ruling as error in the Circuit Court of Appeals is

CHES. & DEL. CANAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
123.

125

Opinion of the Court.

not repeated in this court, it will be considered because
possibly embraced within some of the general assignments.
Both lower courts ruled that the Government was not
bound by the state statute of limitations and that the
doctrine of laches was not applicable to it, but they agreed
that a rebuttable presumption of payment arose after the
lapse of more than twenty years from the date when the
debt became due, without suit being instituted to collect
it, and that, this appearing from the pleadings of the
Government, the burden was upon it of overcoming the
presumption by evidence that payment, as it averred, had
not been made. The Company, without introducing any
testimony, relied wholly upon this presumption of payment.
Although the burden of the responsibility of proving
non-payment was accepted by the Government, the Canal
Company, nevertheless, argues that the state statute of
limitations is also applicable.
It is settled beyond controversy that the United States
when asserting "sovereign" or governmental rights is not
subject to either state statutes of limitations or to laches.
That the doctrine of laches is not applicable to the Government was announced by Mr. Justice Story on the Circuit in 1821 and afterward in 1824 authoritatively, upon
principle, in United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wrheat. 720.
This rule has been often approved and was applied so

lately as Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243 U.
S. 389, 409.
That the United States is not bound by state statutes
of limitations is settled with equal definiteness in United

States v. Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry. Co., 118
U. S. 120; United States v. Whited & Wheless, 246 U. S.
552, 561.
Whether this rule extends to and includes the presumption of payment arising from the lapse of twenty years

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

without suit to collect is not questioned by appropriate
exceptions in the record before us, and it is, therefore, not
decided. It is not intended, however, to approve the
holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals on this subject.
United States v. Thompson, 98 U. S. 486, 489, and cases
hereinbefore cited.
The contention of the Canal Company that the Government by becoming a stockholder in a private corporation
so abdicated its governmental character that, under the
circumstances of this case, it was bound as a private person
by statutes and rules of limitation, cannot be allowed.
If the Government were asserting any rights with respect to the conduct of the corporation's affairs, its contracts or its torts, then its rights, duties and privileges
would be no greater than those of any other stockholder.
Bank of the United States v. Planters' Bank, 9 Wheat. 904,
907. But here the Government is pursuing a right to
recover, which is not affected by its relation to the corporation as a stockholder. The declaration of the dividends,
which is admitted, gave it the status of a creditor of the
company, and, thereafter, the right to recover was unaffected by any stockholder relation. To this must be
added that the statutes and rules of limitation relate to
the remedy to enforce the right, and not to the corporate
relation from which the right springs, and that, since these
dividends constituted "public money" applicable to
public purposes only, the Government in collecting them
was acting in its governmental capacity as much as if it
were collecting taxes, such as those with which, no doubt,
the stock which produced the dividends was purchased.
The Circuit Court of Appeals answered this contention in
a manner not to be improved upon, saying (223 Fed. Rep.
926, 928):
"We may perhaps add a few words to say that the fallacy
of the company's argument seems to lurk in the assumption that in this action the government is asserting a right

CHES. & DEL. CANAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
123.

127

Opinion of the Court.

in its character as a stockholder. Undoubtedly the right
came into being because the government owns the stock,
but in no other respect has the suit anything to do with
such ownership. The government is not suing as a stockholder; it is suing as a creditor, and in this @haracter alone
is it now to be considered."
The questions remain as to the admissibility of the books
and the sufficiency of the evidence to carry the case to the
jury.

The Government produced a witness who testified that
he, in conspiracy with another employee of the Canal
Company, embezzled the amount of these dividends and
that to conceal their crime they placed in the files of the
Canal Company, from which they were produced in
evidence, forged drafts purporting to have been drawn
by Assistant Treasurers of the United States upon the
Treasurer of the Canal Company for payment of these
dividends and also what purported to be receipts therefor.
This witness testified that until 1886, when he left the
employ of the Canal Company, no notice of the declaration of the three dividends in controversy had been sent
to the Government, as had been the practice when earlier
dividends were declared; that until that time no payment
of them had been made, and that the names signed to the
drafts and receipts were fictitious.
The Government also produced the notices by the Canal
Company of the declaration of each of the fourteen earlier
dividends and the record of the payment of them.
To supplement this evidence the books were produced
in evidence, the admission of which is assigned as error.
Employees of the Department of the Treasury, who
produced the books, testified: that they were records of
the Department compiled by authority of law under the
direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and were the
volumes in daily use by officials and employees in the
discharge of their duties; that part of them were printed

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

from the original records of miscellaneous revenues, in
which such dividends would be classed, while others were
printed compilations from books not of original entry,
and the testimony was that the volumes produced were
intended to, and the witnesses believed did, show all of
the miscellaneous receipts and disbursements of the
Government from 1848 to 1914. They showed the receipt
by the Government of fourteen dividends paid by the
Canal Company prior to those in controversy and the
witnesses testified that a careful search made by them
failed to discover any record in the books of the receipt of
any of the three dividends sued for. There was an elaborate description of the method employed by the Department of the Treasury in keeping its accounts and of the
necessarily contemporaneous character of the original
entries, which it is not necessary to rehearse. The copies
produced were printed by the Public Printer.
The objection is that these are not books of original
entry and that they are not certified as copies of public
records are required to be by Rev. Stats., § 882.
It is enough to say of this last contention that although
the books admitted were printed from written public
records, they were so printed by authority of law and were
produced from the custody of the Department of the
Treasury, where they were used as original records in the
transaction of the daily business of the Department and
therefore they did not require certification.
They were public records, kept pursuant to constitutional and statutory requirement. Constitution of the
United States, Article I, § 9, cl. 7; Act of Congress, approved September 2, 1789, c. 12, §2, 1 Stat. 65; Rev. Stats.,
§ 257; Act of Congress, approved September 30, 1890,
c. 1126, 26 Stat. 504, 511; Act approved July 31, 1894, c. 174,
§ 15, 28 Stat. 162, 210. Thus, their character as public
records required by law to be kept, the official character of
their contents entered under the sanction of public duty,

CHES. & DEL. CANAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
123.

129

Opinion of the Court.

the obvious necessity for regular contemporaneous entries
in them and the reduction to a minimum of motive on
the part of public officials and employees to either make
false entries or to omit proper ones, all unite to make these
books admissible as unusually trustworthy sources of evidence. Gaines v. Relf, 12 How. 472, 570; Bryan v. Forsyth, 19 How. 334, 338; Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667,
670; Oakes v. United States, 174 U. S. 778, 783, 796; Holt
v. United States, 218 U. S. 245, 253. Obviously such books
are not subject to the rules of restricted admissibility
applicable to private account books. The considerations
which we have found rendered the books admissible in
evidence as tending to prove the truth of the statements
of entries contained in them also make them admissible
as evidence tending to show that because the receipt of
the dividends was not entered in them they were not
received and therefore were not paid. The evidence may
not be as persuasive in the latter case as in the former,
but that it was proper evidence to be submitted to the
jury for the determination of its value we cannot doubt.
Such books so kept presumptively contained a record of
all payments made and the absence of any entry of payment, where it naturally would have been found if it had
been made, was evidence of nonpayment proper for the
consideration of the jury. United States v. Teschmaker,
22 How. 392, 405; State v. McCormick, 57 Kansas, 440;
Bastrop State Bank v. Levy, 106 Louisiana, 586; Wigmore
on Evidence, § 1531, § 1633, par. 6.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
evidence introduced carries clear conviction that the dividends were never paid, and that the request of the Canal
Company for an instructed verdict in its favor was properly denied. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

