MACLEOD v. NEW ENGLAND TEL. CO.
Argument for Petitioners.

MACLEOD ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF MASSACHUSETTS,
v. NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH
COMPANY.
CET

IORARI

TO THE

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT

OF THE

STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 957.

Argued May 5, 6, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Decided on the authority of Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South
Dakota, ante, 163.

232 Massachusetts, 465, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William HaroldHitchcock, Assistant Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with whom
Mr. Henry C. Attwill, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, was on the brief, for petitioners:
The respondent through its officers and employees is
now operating the telephone system owned by it as an
instrumentality of the Federal Government.
It follows, therefore, that, if the power to regulate
intrastate rates has been reserved to the States by the
joint resolution under consideration, the respondent is the
proper agency 1i Massachusetts against which the exercise of that power should be directed.
Jurisdiction of Massachusetts over the regulation of
intrastate telephone rates, after action by the President
under the Joint Resolution of July 16, 1918, was reserved
to it by that resolution. We raise no question but that
Congress had the power to authorize, or even to require,
the taking over of the telegraph and telephone systems of
the country by the Federal Government for military purposes and "for the common defence."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioners.

250 U. S.

It may be conceded that it was well within the limits of
federal power, when these systems had thus been taken
over as a war measure, entirely to exclude the public from
their use, if the exigencies of the war fairly warranted
such action. When, however, it has been found not inconsistent with the purpose for which these systems had
been taken over to permit the public to continue to use
them, it would seem that the determination of the amount
to be charged for such use had no relation whatever
to the conduct of the war or the exercise of the war powers.
Obviously, Congress could not authorize the taking of
these systems by the Federal Government solely for revenue purposes even during time of war. It may be suggested that, the systems having been taken over and the
public having been permitted to use them so far as not
inconsistent with government use, it was within the power
of Congress to authorize, and of the President and his
representatives to exercise, the regulation of the rates to
be charged for such service entirely within a State as a
mere incident of government operation for war purposes.
If this be so, such regulation must be strictly confined to
its mere incidental purpose. It cannot be extended to
make the dominant purpose of the exercise of such a power
the raising of revenue or, a fortiori, the standardizing of
telephone rates upon a uniform basis throughout the
Nation in the assumed interest of the telephone users of
the country, which was the admitted purpose of the establishment of the rates in question. Such action seems
to go beyond the scope even of the far-reaching war powers.
However, no such difficult and delicate question arises in
this case. Congress foresaw the serious difficulties which
might arise from such a conflict between national and
state powers at a time when harmony was essential. It,
therefore, appears to have determined that these most
fundamental powers of the States should be interfered
with as little as possible. The question now before the

MACLEOD v. NEW ENGLAND TEL. CO.
195.

Amici Curie.

court turns entirely upon the interpretation to be given
to this proviso.
The language of the proviso of the joint resolution itself
shows that the phrase "police regulations" is there used
in its broadest sense. The express exceptions from the
power reserved to the States show the breadth of that
reservation. The control of the issue of stocks and bonds
is but an incident of the power to control rates. If "police
regulations" was here used in any narrow sense, the exception would be meaningless.
The whole resolution indicates a purpose to authorize
the taking of the telegraph and telephone systems for the
direct prosecution of the war, but makes clear that, to the
extent that the public is to be permitted to use them as
before, the regulative powers of the States should not in
any wise be limited except as expressly stated. The prosecution of the war required the prompt transmission of
government messages under conditions which would insure secrecy. It had no possible relation to the cost of
service to private users of these systems.
The history of the joint resolution, particularly of the
language of the proviso under consideration, plainly points
to the same conclusion.
This suit is not beyond the jurisdiction of the Massachusetts court on the ground that the United States is a
necessary party or that the suit is in effect against the
United States.
The Solicitor General for respondent.

See ante, 164.

Mr. William I. Schaffer, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Bernard J. Myers,
Deputy Attorney General of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, by leave of court, filed a brief as amici
curice, on behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Mr. Charles E. Elmquist, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curice, on behalf of thirty-seven States and the
National Association of Railway and Utilities Commissioners.
Mr. John G. Price, Attorney General of the State of
Ohio, by leave of court, filed a brief as amicus curice, on
behalf of the State of Ohio.
Mr. Albert C. Ritchie, Attorney General of the State of
Maryland, by leave of court, filed a brief as amicus curie,
on behalf of the State of Maryland.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The petitioners, composing the Public Utilities Commission of the State of Massachusetts, filed their bill
against the respondent to compel it to enforce certain
telephone rates for intrastate business established in
conformity to the state law and to forbid the putting into
effect of conflicting rates fixed by the Postmaster General
in a schedule by him established and the enforcement of
which he had ordered.
On the petition and answers the case was reserved for
the consideration of the Supreme Judicial Court where it
was finally decided. The court in a lucid opinion, speaking
through Mr. Chief Justice Rugg, having after full consideration reached the conclusion that the Postmaster
General was empowered by the law of the United States to
fix the schedule of rates complained of and that the Telephone Company was authorized by such law to put in
effect and enforce such rates even though in doing so the
rate established by the Public Service Commission of the
State was disregarded, held that the suit was virtually
one against the United States which the court was without

UNITED STATES v. FERGER.
Counsel for the United States.

195.

power to entertain and entered a decree of dismissal for
want of jurisdiction. But the form of the decree thus
entered affects in no way the control and decisive result,
upon every issue in the case, of the ruling this day announced in Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota,
ante, 163. It follows therefore that in this case our decree
must be and is one of affirmance.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissents.

UNITED STATES v. FERGER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 776.

Argued April 29, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Under the commerce clause, Congress has power to deal with acts
not in themselves interstate commerce but which obstruct or otherwise injuriously affect it. P. 202.
Bills of lading in interstate commerce are instrumentalities of that
commerce, subject to the authority of Congress under the commerce
clause. P. 204.
Judicial notice will be taken of the importance of bills of lading in
interstate commerce. Id.
Congress has power to prohibit and punish the forgery and utterance
of bills of lading for fictitious shipments in interstate commerce,
as a means of protecting and sustaining that commerce. P. 205.
256 Fed. Rep. 388, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Charles H. Weston was on the brief, for the United States.

