VITELLI & SON v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

F. VITELLI & SON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF CUSTOMS
APPEALS.

Nos. 67, 68.

Argued April 24, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

The Act of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. 190, ยง 21, provides that whenever
duties have been liquidated and paid and the goods delivered, the
entry and settlement shall, after one year from the time of entry, in
the absence of fraud and of protest by the owner, etc., be final and
conclusive upon all parties. Held, that the purpose was to limit the
right to reliquidate, in the interest of the citizen and the security
of commercial transactions; and where the collector reliquidates on
the ground of fraud, it cannot be presumed that his action was
correct so as to cast the onus of disproving fraud upon the importer.
P. 357.

The fact that the importer, instead of awaiting suit by the United
States, becomes the actor by paying under protest and appealing to
the Board of General Appraisers, does not require him to assume the
burden of disproving the fraud. P. 358.
The Court of Customs Appeals having erroneously assumed, in sustaining a reliquidation based on fraud, that the collector's action
was presumptively correct, and cast the burden of disproving fraud
upon the importers, held that the case must be remanded to be tried
anew by the Board of General Appraisers, without inquiry by this
court into the adequacy of the evidence of fraud in the present
record. P. 359.
7 Cust. App. Rep. 243, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion. For the decisions of
the Board of General Appraisers, see G. A. 7418; 24 T. D.
75; and Abstracts Nos. 36340, 36544, 27 T. D. 162, 213.

Mr. Albert M. Yuzzolino for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Hanson for the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

250 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The petitioners, Vitelli & Son, during the years 1905-67, made entry at the port of New York of nineteen different lots of dutiable merchandise, that is, chestnuts
and garlic, and these entries were liquidated and the
duties paid. About five years after the last of these payments the collector of the port of New York, declaring that
evidence had been produced to his satisfaction showing
that fourteen of the nineteen entries referred to were fraudulent because of the incorrect weights upon which they
were based, canceled the previous liquidations relating to
them and directed a reliquidation to be made on the basis
of the corrected weights. Vitelli & Son, denying the existence of fraud and disputing the power to make the reliquidation, protested against the claim of duty which resulted
from the reliquidation and, paying the same under protest,
prosecuted an appeal to the Board of General Appraisers.
Before the board the collector made no affirmative
proof of the commission of fraud, and submitted the
validity of the reliquidation upon the basis of the official
papers pertaining to it, that is, the certificates of weight,
etc., upon which he had acted. The petitioners, not
taking upon themselves the burden of showing that there
was an absence of fraud, stood upon their protest as to
the want of power to make the reliquidation. The board
sustained the protest. It held that as, under the conditions disclosed, the existence of power in the collector
to make the reliquidation after one year depended upon
the fact of fraud, the burden was upon the collector
to establish that which was necessary to sustain his
authority to act, and having failed to do so the reliquidation was erroneous and the protest was well founded.
Appeal was prosecuted to the Court of Customs Appeals,
where the action of the board was reversed. 5 Cust. App.

VITELLI & SON v. UNITED STATES.
355.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 151. The court held that although it was true that,
as applied to the case before it, the existence of fraud was
essential to confer upon the collector the power which
he had exerted, as he had exercised the authority, the
presumption of the correctness of official action was sufficient, without proof of fraud to sustain the reliquidation.
In reaching this conclusion it was expressly decided that,
in view of the presumption of power indulged in, the
effect of ยง 21 of the Act of 1874 was to cast upon the importer the burden of establishing a negative, that is, that
there had been no fraud. The case was remanded for
reconsideration to the Board of General Appraisers.
While the protest concerning the fourteen entries was
pending, the collector had, for like alleged fraud, ordered
a reliquidation of the remaining five of the nineteen entries,
and by protest and payment of duties the action of the
collector as to those entries was before the Board of General Appraisers for consideration. They were heard by
the board along with the entries which the board had
under consideration by virtue of the remanding order of
the Court of Customs Appeals. The board held, in view
of the ruling of the Court of Customs Appeals as to the
presumption of power and burden of proof, that the
reliquidation in both cases was valid and that the protests were consequently without merit. Both cases were
then appealed to the Court of Customs Appeals, which
in an elaborate opinion reiterated and applied its previous ruling (7 Cust. App. Rep. 243), and the cases are
here on the allowance of a certiorari.
Obviously the whole case turns upon the significance of
ยง 21 of the Act of 1874, the text of which is as follows
(18 Stat. 186, 190):
"That whenever any goods, wares, and merchandise
shall have been entered and passed free of duty, and
whenever duties upon any imported goods, wares, and
merchandise shall have been liquidated and paid, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

such goods, wares, and merchandise shall have been
delivered to the owner, importer, agent, or consignee,
such entry and passage free of duty and such settlement
of duties shall, after the expiration of one year from the
time of entry, in the absence of fraud and in the absence
of protest by the owner, importer, agent, or consignee,
be final and conclusive upon all parties."
Indisputable also is it, as stated by the Court of Customs Appeals and long previously pointed out in United
States v. Phelps, 17 Blatchf. 312, that the remedy intended
to be accomplished by the section in question was to prevent the right to reliquidate, which had previously been
exerted without limit, from being exercised except in
the particular conditions stated, and thus in the interest
of the citizen to circumscribe the power to the instances
specified in order that uncertainty as to the finality of
customs entries might be removed and the security of
commercial transactions be safeguarded. But from this
premise we are of opinion that the error of the construction given to the statute below becomes at once apparent, since, in the first place, by a presumption of power
it virtually removes the limitation as to the exercise of the
power which the statute created; and further, as the
necessary result of the onus of proof which the construction sustained, the remedial purposes of the statute were
either wholly negatived or in any event greatly perverted.
It is indeed true that in the opinion on the first hearing
below and in the argument at bar a suggestion was made
that, as in the particular instance the importer had become an actor seeking to question the reliquidation, he
thereby, as an actor, assumed the burden of proof as to
the absence of fraud which would not have rested upon
him under the statute had he refused to pay the duty
resulting from the reliquidation and awaited action taken
against him by the United States *toenforce it. But as the
court below expressly declared that the proceeding taken

VITELLI & SON v. UNITED STATES.
355.

Opinion of the Court.

was appropriate to resist the result of the reliquidation, if
illegal, it cannot be that the right to correct the wrong was
lost by resort to the remedy appropriate for its correction.
Moreover the proposition can alone rest upon the
assumption that the limitation on power which the statute
imposed was ephemeral while from the text it is certain
that it was permanent and controlling. The cogency of
this conclusion stands out in bold relief when it is considered that the remedial purpose of the statute was to protect the citizen from the unlimited power to reliquidate
and the uncertainties affecting commercial transactions
resulting from the existence of such power. The inevitable
result of the argument is to cast upon the citizen the perpetual burden of showing that he had not been guilty
of wrong as the only means of escaping the exercise against
him of the unlimited power to reliquidate which it was
the purpose of the statute to prevent.
It is contended that although it be admitted that the
statute was wrongly construed below, nevertheless the
reliquidation should be now sustained because there was
adequate proof in the record to show the existence of
fraud which justified the reliquidation order without reference to the presumption upon which the court below
based its conclusion. We do not, however, think this
view can be sustained, since the erroneous ruling as to
the statute dominates the entire situation and exacts that
the question of the existence of the fraud necessary to give
rise to the power to reliquidate should be disposed of
by the tribunals peculiarly competent to consider such
question, disembarrassed from any mistaken construction
as to the presumption created by the statute.
It follows that the judgment of the Court of Customs
Appeals must be and it is reversed and the cases remanded
to the Board of General Appraisers for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

