OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

roe was not employed "solely as a merchant vessel" because she was assigned to the New England coal trade,
and because at that time the Government, through the
Fuel Administration, was rationing the coal supply of the
country. The language of ยง9 "such vessels while employed
solely as merchant vessels" must be read in connection
with the phrase "whether the United States be interested
therein as owner, in whole or in part, or hold any mortgage,
lien, or other interest therein." Her service at the time
was purely commercial, and she was subject by the terms
of the act to the ordinary liability of a merchant vessel,
notwithstanding the indirect interest of the Government
in the outcome of her voyage.
We deem it clear, also, that among the liabilities designated by the section is the liability of a merchant vessel
to be subjected to judicial process in admiralty for the
consequences of a collision.
Order to show cause discharged and petition dismissed.

LINCOLN GAS & ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
v. CITY OF LINCOLN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 52.

Argued October 5, 8, 1917.-Decided June 2, 1919.

A gas company, pending a suit to declare a rate ordinance confiscatory,
put the rate in effect as a test, under a stipulation that such action
should not be construed as an acceptance of or compliance with the
ordinance or be "shown in evidence or presented to the court in the
above entitled cause, or used in any way by either party to influence
the action of the court in the disposition of the case." Held, that
this in effect relieved the defendant from obligation to observe the

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
256.

Syllabus.

effect of the reduced rate or prepare to meet inferences drawn from
it, and hence afforded a reason why a petition for leave to file a bill
of review in the District Court, based on the test, should not be
granted by this court. P. 261.
Further grounds for refusing such leave are found in the delay
of the plaintiff in instituting the test and in the fact that the
results relied on were offset by an error committed in the plaintiff's
favor. P. 262.
The District Court, having acquired jurisdiction through a bill presenting a substantial controversy under the Federal Constitution,
has power to dispose of an issue fairly within the pleadings, without
passing on its federal aspect, by application of the constitution of
the State. P. 263.
In a suit challenging the constitutionality of ordinances fixing gas rates
and laying an occupation tax, where the District Court upheld the
rates but declared the tax void, and, after an appeal in which the
tax ruling was not assigned as error or referred to by this court in
its opinion or mandate, the rate, on a further trial, was again sustained and the bill dismissed by a final decree, without further mention of the tax, held, that the earlier adjudication was to be taken as
a part of the final decree, establishing beyond collateral attack in
this court or elsewhere that the tax was void; but that the decree
might properly be modified to reiterate such earlier adjudication.
Id.
In a rate case, involving questions, and much evidence, concerning
plant valuation, methods of estimating and applying depreciation
charges, working capital, going concern value, rate of return, etc.,
this court is not called upon to recite the substance of such evidence
or review the master's findings made after proper investigation.
P. 266.
Eight per cent. being the lowest rate generally sought and obtained
upon capital invested in banking, merchandising and other business
in the vicinity, and 7 per cent. the legal rate in the State, the court
cannot approve a finding that no rate yielding as much as 6 per cent.
could be deemed confiscatory in the case of the complaining gas
company; nor is the finding justified upon the ground that the
company had such a monopoly and guaranty of profits as would
permit of such restriction. P. 267.
In the absence of any finding or clear evidence that past earnings,
invested in a gas company's business, were excessive, a finding
restricting the "going value" on the theory that they were, is erroneous. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

In such a suit, occupation taxes which have been conclusively adjudged
void and have not been paid should not be allowed as operating
expenses. P. 267.
Having regard for the entire period under investigation, and in the
presence of many doubtful items, this court can not hold the
rate ordinance in question void, in the absence of an actual and
timely test of its practical operation. Id.
The decree dismissing the bill without qualification is so modified as to
be expressly without prejudice to the commencement of a new suit,
in which complainant may show if it can, as a result of its practical
test since May 1, 1915, or upon evidence of values, costs of operation
and rates of return upon capital as they stand when such suit is
brought and are likely to continue, that the rate in question is confiscatory under the new conditions. P. 268.
The court notices judicially that, principally owing to the war, costs
of labor and supplies have advanced greatly since the ordinance was
adopted, and largely since the case was last heard in the court below,
and that annual returns upon capital and enterprise the world over
have materially increased, so that what would have been a proper
return for capital in gas plants and other public utilities a few years
ago furnishes no safe criterion for the present or the future. Id.
Modified and affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Robert Burns and Mr. Edmund C. Strode, with
whom Mr. Charles A. Frueauff and Mr. Dewey C. Bailey,
Jr., were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. W.
appellees.

M.

Morning and Mr. C. Petrus Peterson for

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY
court.

delivered

the opinion

of the

This is an appeal from the final decree of the district

court dismissing the bill of complaint in a suit brought
by the Lincoln Gas and Electric Light Company, a

Nebraska corporation, against the City of Lincoln and

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
256.

Opinion of the Court.

its officials praying for an injunction to restrain enforcement of an ordinance of the city adopted November 19,
1906, which had the effect of reducing complainant's
charges for gas from $1.20 to $1 per 1,000 cubic feet, and
an ordinance adopted December 10, 1906, assessing an
annual occupation tax upon gas companies in the city.
The action was instituted in December, 1906, without
previous test of the $1 rate, in the then Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Nebraska. Besides
grounds not pressed, the rate ordinance was attacked
upon the ground that its enforcement would deprive
complainant of its property without due process of law,
in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
tax ordinance was attacked upon grounds of state law,
and also upon the ground that it was violative of the
"due process" and "equal protection" clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Upon final hearing the court,
by decree entered April 6, 1909, dismissed the bill as to
the rate ordinance, without prejudice to the commencement of a new action; but decreed that the ordinance
levying an occupation tax violated the constitution of
Nebraska and was for this reason illegal, and granted a
permanent injunction against its enforcement.
182
Fed. Rep. 926.
Upon appeal by complainant to this court it was found
that there was a great mass of conflicting evidence relating to the value of complainant's plant, the cost of
operation, and the gross and net income; that the case
had not been referred to a master, nor had specific findings of fact been made by the court below, but only
general conclusions which were found not to be sufficient
in view of errors assigned which opened up substantially
the entire case. For this reason the decree was reversed
and the cause remanded to the district court with directions to refer it to a master with leave to both parties
to take additional evidence. A temporary injunction

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

which had been granted in the court below and continued in force until final decree and afterwards pending
the appeal, under a bond conditioned to account for
overcharges if the rate ordinance should be sustained,
was by the decree of reversal continued in force until
final decree in the court below, upon condition that a new
bond with sureties were given to account for overcharges
to consumers since the original restraining order, in the
event the ordinance should be sustained. 223 U. S. 349.
Upon the going down of the mandate, the district court
referred the case (July, 1912) to a master, to take the
proofs and report his findings of fact and of law. After
a full hearing he made an elaborate report (September,
1914) to which complainant filed about 125 exceptions,
with a motion to .recommit the case to the master for
additional findings, which motion was denied. The
master found the rate ordinance was not confiscatory,
and (differing from the former decision of the circuit
court) held that the occupation tax ordinance was valid,
and included the tax as an operating expense. Upon the
hearing of the exceptions the report of the master was
confirmed by the district court, and the bill dismissed as
to the rate ordinance, by decree entered September 23,
1915; the judge filing a memorandum to the effect that
he did not agree with the master as to the validity of the
occupation tax ordinance, but deemed it unnecessary to
pass upon this in the decree, since the result reached by
the master would only be strengthened by adjudging the
tax invalid, while if the judge should agree with the
master upon that question he still would confirm the
report. In other words, assuming the occupation tax
ordinance to be valid, the addition of this tax to the annual outgoes of complainant would still leave the $1 rate
compensatory.
Complainant brings the case to this court by appeal,
with about 120 assignments of error, one of which is that

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
256.

Opinion of the Court.

the district court erred in not decreeing that the occupation tax ordinance was in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment in that it amounted to a denial of the equal
protection of the laws.
Pending the hearing upon the master's report, and on
or about May 1, 1915, complainant, notwithstanding
the injunction pendente lite, put into effect a net rate of
$1 per thousand feet for gas, and has maintained it since.
Upon the strength of this test, and before the argument
of this the second appeal, complainant presented to us
a petition for leave to file a bill of review in the court
below upon the ground that, according to the master's
findings, complainant, in the year 1907, earned so small
a return that the rate ordinance would have been confiscatory upon the valuation as found by him, but for
this additional finding: "All human experience has shown
that increased consumption follows quickly a reduction
in the price of commodities, and the evidence in this case
satisfactorily shows that gas is no exception to the rule."
The petition averred that the experience of complainant in an actual test of the reduced rate during a considerable period since May 1, 1915, showed that the view
of the master was erroneous, and in fact under actual
operating conditions there was no increase of consumption.
The application for leave to file a bill of review will be
denied, for the following reasons:
First, because the $1 rate was put into effect pursuant
to a written stipulation made between the parties in the
cause to the effect that the action of the company in so
doing should not be construed as an acceptance of or
compliance with the ordinance in controversy, and should
not be "shown in evidence or presented to the court in
the above entitled cause, or used in any way by either
party to influence the action of the court in the disposition of the case." Hence defendant was not called upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

to observe the effect of the reduced rate, or prepare to
meet inferences drawn therefrom.
Secondly, because complainant might have made a
practical test of the ordinance rate before bringing this
suit for an injunction, and certainly ought to have resorted to the test long before it did so. As early as the
month of January, 1909, this court, in two notable rate
cases, indicated its view of the importance, in any but
a very clear case, of subjecting prescribed rates to the
test of practical experience before attacking them in the
courts. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1,
16, 18; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 54.
When those decisions were announced this case was
pending in the circuit court, and shortly thereafter it was
decided adversely to complainant upon the question of
the validity of the rate, the Knoxville and Willcox Cases
being cited. 182 Fed. Rep. 926, 929. Then, if not before,
complainant might have made a practical test of the
sufficiency of the rate, instead of waiting six years longer
before doing so. The litigation has been extremely tedious and burdensome to both sides, and it ought now to
be brought to a conclusion upon the record as it stands.
And thirdly, the argument based upon the master's
finding as to the return that complainant would have
earned in the year 1907 under the prescribed rates is
vitiated by the fact that he included as an operating
expense $4,466, the amount of the estimated occupation
tax, which was not paid and (as we shall see) has been
conclusively adjudged in this suit to be unenforceable.
Eliminating this would increase the net return for the
year approximately one per cent. upon the investment.
Coming to the merits, we will deal first with the occupation tax ordinance. This is important not only because
considerable sums of unpaid taxes have accumulated pending the litigation, but because of the effect of the tax, if
sustained, upon the question of the adequacy of the rate.

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
256.

Opinion of the Court.

The ordinance imposes an occupation tax upon all gas
companies manufacturing and furnishing gas to the inhabitants of the City of Lincoln, equivalent to 212 per
cent. of their gross receipts derived from that business.
It was attacked in the bill as being "partial, discriminatory, unreasonable and oppressive in this: It imposes
upon your orator an onerous tax burden to which the
business and occupations of other persons within said
city are not subjected;" and the bill alleged among other
things that the Lincoln Traction Company held a franchise for furnishing electricity to the public in said city,
under which it was supplying light, heat, and power in
competition with complainant's gas business, and that
the city had not subjected this business of the traction
company to any occupation tax; wherefore the ordinance
''operates to deprive your orator of the equal protection
of the laws, imposes a discriminatory burden upon your
orator, .
.
and deprives your orator of its franchise
rights and privileges and of its properties without due
process of law," thus being violative of the due process
and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. The circuit court deemed that this raised the
question of the invalidity of the ordinance under the
uniformity provision of the state constitution, and held
it was invalid as being in contravention thereof. 182
Fed. Rep. 926, 927, 929. The city requested a modification of the opinion and decree in this respect, on the
ground that the invalidity of the ordinance under the
state laws and constitution was not charged in the bill.
This application was denied.
Neither the city nor any other defendant appealed
from that part of the decree which adjudged the occupation tax ordinance void and granted an injunction against
its enforcement. Complainant appealed only from that
part which was adverse to it upon the question of the
validity of the rate ordinance. None of its assignments

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

of error touched upon the tax ordinance; but in its brief
in this court upon the first appeal complainant declared
that its bill had assailed the tax ordinance only upon the
ground that it was in violation of the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; that the bill was
drawn upon the theory that this ordinance, like the rate
ordinance, could only be assailed in a court of the United
States upon the ground "that it was violative of the
Constitution of the United States"; apparently overlooking that, even without diversity of citizenship (and
there was none), if the bill presented a substantial controversy under the Constitution of the United States,
and the requisite amount was involved, the jurisdiction
extended to the determination of all questions, including
questions of state law, and irrespective of the disposition
made of the federal questions. Greene v. Louisville &
InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 508. It was said in
the brief that the decree of the circuit court against the
validity of the occupation tax ordinance was a nullity
because the subject-matter was not cognizable in a court
of the United States and the issue decided was not ten-.
dered by the bill. Upon the ground that the decree
might constitute no bar to the collection of the occupation taxes, and the amount of these if collected would
reduce complainant's returns and render the rate ordinance if sustained still more burdensome, appellant asked
this court to pass upon the validity of the tax ordinance
upon the federal grounds asserted in the bill.
Naturally this court ignored the suggestion, its jurisdiction over the question not having been invoked by
an appeal, and so it happened that the occupation tax
ordinance was not mentioned in the opinion or in the
mandate.
There is nothing before us to show what decree, if any,
was made by the district court upon the going down of
the mandate, beyond a mere order of reference to the

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
256.

Opinion of the Court.

master. The final decree made upon the confirmation
of his report says nothing upon the subject of the occupation tax ordinance. Its language is "That the bill of
complaint herein, so far as the same relates to the ordinance of the City of Lincoln establishing a rate of charges
for gas in said city be, and the same is, hereby dismissed,
and the restraining order heretofore granted against the
enforcement of said ordinance is hereby dissolved."
Upon this record, it is very clear that so much of the
decree of the circuit court entered April 6, 1909, as held
the occupation tax ordinance void and restrained its
enforcement was untouched by the former appeal and
unaffected by the subsequent proceedings. The decree
now under review does not modify the effect of the former
decree upon this subject; hence, the adjudication of the
invalidity of the occupation tax ordinance and the award
of an injunction to restrain its enforcement are to be
taken as a part of the final decree in the cause. We deem
it entirely clear, also, that the issue of the validity of that
ordinance upon grounds of state law was fairly within
the pleadings, and that this part of the decree is impregnable against collateral attack, in this court or elsewhere.
This being so, the assignment that the district court
erred in its decree of September 23, 1915, in not decreeing
that the occupation tax ordinance was in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment because amounting to a denial
of the equal protection of the laws, is groundless; there
was no occasion for the court to make any decree to that
effect, since the matter had been conclusively determined
against the validity of this ordinance by the final decree
of April 6, 1909, which remained in this respect unappealed from. In order to render the matter free from
doubt the decree of September 23, 1915, will now be
modified by embodying in it a reiteration of that part
of the decree of April 6, 1909, which held the occupation
tax ordinance void and restrained its enforcement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Parenthetically, it may be stated that on March 16,
1908, the city council passed an ordinance imposing a
like occupation tax upon corporations selling electricity
for light or power purposes, but at the rate of only 2 per
cent. of their gross receipts; that on December 13, 1909,
both occupation taxes were repealed, and gas and electric
companies alike were subjected thereafter to an occupation tax equal to 3 per cent. of their gross receipts; and
that in July, 1916, the Supreme Court of Nebraska adjudged the occupation tax ordinance of December 10,
1906, to be invalid, following the decision of the circuit
court in this case; and on the same day held that the
enforcement against complainant of an occupation tax
under the ordinance of December, 1909, must be stayed
pending the final determination of the present case.
City of Lincoln v. Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co., (two
cases), 100 Nebraska, 182, 188.
The attack upon the rate ordinance brings under consideration questions of the valuation of the plant, the
proper method of estimating and applying depreciation
charges, questions of working capital, going concern
value, the propriety of various items of operating expense, the rate of return that reasonably ought to be
allowed upon capital invested in a plant and business of
this character in Nebraska, and the other questions usual
in such cases. The special master conducted a patient
and elaborate investigation. An enormous mass of evidence was produced before him, and analyzed in his
report. In abridged form, it occupies nearly 2,000 pages
of printed transcript in this court, besides numerous
tabular exhibits. It would be impossible, within reasonable limits, to recite the substance of the evidence or
review the master's findings. We do not feel called upon
to do this. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S.
1, 17. The findings are subjected to numerous and
minute criticisms, and some of these seem to possess

LINCOLN GAS CO. v. LINCOLN.
256.

Opinion of the Court.

force. We cannot approve the finding that no rate yielding as much as 6 per cent. upon the invested capital
could be regarded as confiscatory, in view of the undisputed evidence, accepted by the master, that 8 per cent.
was the lowest rate sought and generally obtained as a
return upon capital invested in banking, merchandising,
and other business in the vicinity; 7 per cent. being the
"legal rate" of interest in Nebraska. Complainant had
not such a monopoly nor were its profits "virtually guaranteed" in such a sense as to permit the public authorities
to restrict it to a return of 6 per cent. upon its invested
capital. It is not entirely clear, however, that the rate
ordinance did so restrict it. Again, we question the
propriety of the master's treatment of "going value,"
which he seems to have estimated at less than otherwise
he would have placed it upon the theory that the company's business had been developed, at the expense of
the public, in the expenditure of past earnings exceeding
a fair return upon the capital invested, and this without
any finding, or any clear evidence to which our attention
has been called, that past earnings were excessive. On
the other hand, the master erred in favor of complainant
by allowing as operating expenses occupation taxes for
the years 1907 to 1909, inclusive, these taxes not having
been paid and the taxing ordinance applicable to that
period having been held invalid by the decree of the
circuit court entered April 6, 1909, and so held since his
report by the state supreme court. And it is possible
he erred in allowing occupation taxes for the year 1910
and subsequent years, since these were not in fact paid.
As we have seen, the occupation tax erroneously allowed
for the crucial year 1907 amounted to more than 1 per
cent. upon the invested capital at the master's valuation.
He also appears to have been unduly liberal to the company in the allowance for working capital, and in some
other items of valuation, as well as in respect of some

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

expenditures allowed as operating expense. Without
going into details, we content ourselves with announcing
our general conclusion that, having regard to the entire
period under investigation, we are unable to say that the
master erred in holding that the ordinance was not shown
to have been confiscatory in its effect. It is probable
that in the years 1907 and 1912 the net return was close
to the line, if not below it; but that in the other years
examined it was at least 7 per cent.; and there are too
many doubtful items for us to adjudge the ordinance
void, in the absence of an actual and timely test.
The decree dismissed the bill, however, so far as it
related to the rate ordinance, without reservation or
qualification. Perhaps it would go without saying, but
in our opinion the decree ought to be modified so 'as to
permit complainant to make another application to the
courts for relief against the operation of the ordinance
hereafter, if it can show, as a result of its practical test
of the dollar rate since May 1, 1915, or upon evidence
respecting values, costs of operation, and the current
rates of return upon capital as they stand at the time of
bringing suit and are likely to continue thereafter, that
the rate ordinance is confiscatory in its effect under the
new conditions. It is a matter of common knowledge
that, owing principally to the world war, the costs of
labor and supplies of every kind have greatly advanced
since the ordinance was adopted, and largely since this
cause was last heard in the court below. And it is equally
well known that annual returns upon capital and enterprise the world over have materially increased, so that
what would have been a proper rate of return for capital
invested in gas plants and similar public utilities a few
years ago furnishes no safe criterion for the present or
for the future.
The final decree of September 23, 1915, will be modified by embodying in it a reiteration of that part of the

THE SCOW "6--S."
256.

Syllabus.

final decree of April 6, 1909, which held that the ordinance of the City of Lincoln, approved December 10,
1906, levying an occupation tax against complainant,

was illegal and void because violative of the constitution
of the State of Nebraska, and that the enforcement of
the same as to complainant should be perpetually enjoined.

The decree of September 23, 1915, will be further modified so that the dismissal of the bill of complaint, in so

far as it relates to the ordinance of the City of Lincoln

approved November 19, 1906, establishing a rate of
charges for gas in said city, shall be without prejudice
to the commencement of a new action to restrain the

enforcement of said ordinance hereafter, and
Decree, as thus modified, affirmed with costs.

THE SCOW "6-S."'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 301.

Argued April 24, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

The Act of June 29, 1888, c. 496, 25 Stat. 209, as amended, regulating
dumping in New York Harbor, renders a vessel employed in violating
its provisions directly liable for the same pecuniary penalties that
it imposes on individuals, and these may be enforced against the
vessel summarily by libel, without awaiting the result of criminal
proceedings against the individuals. P. 271. The Strathairly, 124
U. S. 558, distinguished.
There is no constitutional or other reason why an unliquidated fine
may not be enforced against a vessel in admiralty; and jurisdiction
of such a proceeding is conferred upon the District Court by the
I The docket title of this case is: P. Sanford Ross, Inc., Claimant
of the Scow " 6-S," v. United States.

