OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 374.

250 U. S.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BIANC.
AMERICAN KNIFE COMPANY ET AL. v. SWEETING.
CLARK KNITTING COMPANY, INC., ET AL. v.
VAUGHN.
ERROR

TO THE SUPREME

COURT,

APPELLATE

DIVISION,

THIRD JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT, OF THE STATE OF NXW

YORK.
Nos. 374-376.

Argued October 22, 23, 1919.-Decided
November 10, 1919.

The amendment to the New York Workmen's Compensation Law (cf.
New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188,) providing that,
in case of an injury resulting in serious facial or head disfigurement,
the commission may, in its discretion, make such award or compensation as it may deem proper and equitable, in view of the nature
of the disfigurement, but not to exceed $3,500 (Laws 1916, c. 622,)
is not an arbitrary or oppressive exercise of the police power and
does not deprive the employer of property without due process in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 600.
In providing for the compensation of workmen injured in hazardous
industries, the State need not base it exclusively on loss of earning
power. P. 601.
Whether an award for such disfigurement should be made in combination with or independently of the award for mere inability to work,
and whether the compensation should be paid in a single sum or
in instalments, are matters of detail for the State to determine. P.
603.
226 N. Y. 199, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert E. Whalen, with whom Mr. Frank V. Whiting
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 374:

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. BIANC.
596.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 374.

The additional award is wholly unrelated to claimant's
ability to work. There is not the slightest intimation that
the disfigurement has impaired claimant's earning capacity beyond the period for which he was awarded a separate
amount for the entire period of disability. Moreover,
when that award was made, plaintiff had returned to
work.
Only impairment of earning power justifies compulsory
payment of workmen's compensation for disabling or
fatal injuries inflicted without fault. New York Central
R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 203-206; Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 236, 239, 243.

This court has pointed out that "compensation for disabling and fatal injuries irrespective of the question of
fault" was involved in the decisions of the cases which
sustained the New York and the Washington Acts. Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152, 163.

Mr. Justice Pitney, writing for the majority in Arizona
Employers' Liability Cases, ante, 400, 425, affirmed the

power of the people of Arizona to erect safeguards
against "leaving the injured ones, and the dependents of
those whose lives are lost, through accidents due to the
conditions of the occupation, to be a burden upon the
public." And at p. 428 he adverted to the sovereign power
thus to regulate the conduct of those hazardous industries
in which" human beings

.

.

.

in the pursuit of a liveli-

hood must expose themselves to death or to physical injuries more or less disabling, with consequent impoverishment, partial or total, of the workman or those dependent
upon him."
In Ball v. William Hunt & Sons, Ltd., [1912] App. Cas.

496, cited in Mr. Justice Holmes' concurring opinion in
the Arizona Case, p. 433, Lord Shaw of Dunfermline declared that "the theory and datum upon which such compensation proceeds is that of compensation for injury to
the worker as a wage-earner, and it is the incapacity to

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error in No. 374.

250 U. S.

earn a wage which forms the standard upon which the compensation is reckoned." (P. 507.)
In the Arizona Case, p. 426, a feature of the Arizona Act
which was considered to be an element of guaranty of due
process was the provision for trial of issues of fact and
assessment of damages before a constitutional jury, in a
judicial tribunal, in accordance with long established
modes and ordinary processes of law-" substantially the
common law method." In the case at bar no such safeguard was vouchsafed. Due process of law, however, contemplates that damages, as distinguished from compensation for loss or diminution of earning power during
hazardous employment, shall be fixed and awarded, if at
all, by a jury and not by a board. Damages, when
awarded, must represent the deliberate judgment of a tribunal vested with and exercising judicial functions, not
the determination of a body which is clothed with
statutory power to proceed as summarily as a courtmartial. (§§ 20, 68, N. Y. Workmen's Compensation
Act.) See Erie R. R. Co. v. Linnekogel, 248 Fed. Rep.
389, 392.
The disfigurement clause is not a reasonable exercise of
the police power. White Case, supra, pp. 206, 207; Mountain Timber Co. Case, supra, 238, 243; Arizona Case, supra,
420-422.
If, as recognized at p. 207 of the opinion in the White
Case, the New York Act is not, nor is it asserted to be, a
measure in furtherance of health or safety, it remains simply to inquire whether the disfigurement clause has any
reasonable relation to the general welfare. The question
carries its own answer, since, once adequate provision has
been made for loss or diminution of earning capacity, it is
of no public concern whether the claimant shall or shall
not receive a further award for impairment of good looks
not in any wise related to earning power. Repeatedly it
has been stated in cognate terms that the subject of judi-

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. BIANC.
596.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error in Nos. 375, 376.

cial inquiry, in such a case as this, is whether the statute
under consideration "is arbitrary and unreasonable, from
the standpoint of natural justice" (White Case, p. 202); or
"so entravagant or arbitrary as to constitute an abuse of
power" (Mountain Timber Co. Case, p. 237.) Such was
the test applied in determining the validity of the Arizona
Act.
There being no claim that any element of public health
or of public safety is involved, and no real consideration
of public welfare being presented, it follows that the clause
in question is fairly to be characterized as unreasonable
and fundamentally unjust.
The question here presented is an open one.
Mr. William H. Foster,for plaintiffs in error in Nos. 375
and 376, argued that an award for disfigurement is not
compensation but damages (New York Central R. R. Co. v.
White, 243 U. S. 188, 193; Matter of Erickson v. Preuss,
223 N. Y. 365, 368); and that the previous decisions of this
court upholding compensation laws were based on loss of
earning power and the tendency of disablement or death
of workmen to render them, or their dependents, burdens
on the public charity. In this case there was an entire
absence of relation between the disfigurement and loss of
earning power, though it is probably true that a person
who has a disfigurement may have suffered pain and
acquired a certain timidity. An award for mere disfigurement is not within the police power as tested by
the previous decisions of this court, because the mere
disfigurement is not a matter affecting the public
interest.
Mr. E. C. Aiken, Deputy Attorney General of the State
of New York, with whom Mr. CharlesD. Newton, Attorney
General of the State of New York, was on the briefs, for
the State Industrial Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Workmen's Compensation Law of the State of New
York (c. 816, Laws 1913, as amended and re~nacted by
c. 41, Laws 1914; Cons. Laws, c. 67), which was sustained
by this court against attacks based upon the Fourteenth
Amendment in New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243
U. S. 188, was amended by Laws 1916, c. 622, among
other things by inserting in the 15th section, which contains the schedule of compensation for cases of disability,
a clause reading as follows: "In case of an injury resulting
in serious facial or head disfigurement the commission may
in its discretion, make such award or compensation as it
may deem proper and equitable, in view of the nature of
the disfigurement, but not to exceed three thousand five
hundred dollars."
The present writs of error bring up for review three judgments of the Court of Appeals of that State, affirming
orders of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, Third
Judicial Department, in which awards based upon this
amendment were sustained. The opinion of the Court of
Appeals, applicable to all of the cases, is reported under the
title of Matter of Sweeting v. American Knife Co., 226 N. Y.
199.

In each case the Commission found accidental injuries
sustained by an employee in a hazardous occupation, arising out of and in the course of the employment, and, as a
result of the injury, some serious facial or head disfigurement, or both. In each case an award was made on account of such disfigurement irrespective of the allowance
of compensation according to the schedule based upon the
average wage of the injured employee and the character
and duration of the disability.
The sole contention here is that the amendment of 1916,
as thus carried into effect, deprives the respective plaintiffs

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO. v. BIANC.
596.

Opinion of the Court.

in error of property without due process of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The argument is that an award for disfigurement, made
wholly independent of claimant's inability to work, is not
based upon impairment of earning power; that only such
impairment can justify imposing upon an employer without fault compulsory payment by way of compensation to
an injured workman; and hence that the "disfigurement
clause" is not a reasonable exercise of the police power, but
is arbitrary and oppressive.
In view of our recent decisions sustaining state laws imposing upon employers in the hazardous industries responsibility in one form or another for the consequences of
injuries received by employees in the course of the employment in the absence of fault on the employer's part (New
York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, ante, 400), little need now be
said.
Even were impairment of earning power the sole justification for imposing compulsory payment of workmen's
compensation upon the employer in such cases, it would
be sufficient answer to the present contention to say that
a serious disfigurement of the face or head reasonably may
be regarded as having a direct relation to the injured person's earning power, irrespective of its effect upon his mere
capacity for work.
Under ordinary conditions of life, a serious and unnatural disfigurement of the face or head very probably
may have a harmful effect upon the ability of the injured
person to obtain or retain employment. Laying aside
exceptional cases, which we must assume will be fairly
dealt with in the proper and equitable administration of the
act, such a disfigurement may render one repulsive or offensive to the sight, displeasing, or at least less pleasing, to
employer, to fellow employees, and to patrons or custom-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

ers. See Ball v. Win. Hunt & Sons, Ltd., [1912] App.
Cas. 496.
But we cannot concede that impairment of earning
power is the sole ground upon which compulsory compensation to injured workmen legitimately may be based. Unquestionably it is a rational basis, and it is adopted for the
generality of cases by the New York law. But the Court
of Appeals has construed the 1916 amendment as permitting an allowance for facial or head disfigurement although
it does not impair the claimant's earning capacity. Matter of Erickson v. Preuss, 223 N. Y. 365, 368; and see
opinion of Judge Cardozo in the present case, 226 N. Y.
199, 200. In view of this, and there being no specific finding of such impairment in these cases, it is proper to say
that in our opinion the "due process of law" clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment does not require the States to
base compulsory compensation solely upon loss of earning
power.
The New York law as at first enacted, the Washington,
and the Arizona laws presented for our consideration three
different methods adopted for the purpose of imposing
upon the industry the burden of making some compensation for the human wastage attributable to the hazards of
the work. We were unable to find that any of these ran
counter to the "due process" clause. Nor does that provision debar a State from adopting other methods, or a
composite of different methods, provided the result be not
inconsistent with fundamental rights. As was stated in the
Arizona Case, ante, 429: "If a State recognizes or establishes a right of action for compensation to injured
workmen upon grounds not arbitrary or fundamentally
unjust, the question whether the award shall be measured
as compensatory damages are measured at common law,
or according to some prescribed scale reasonably adapted
to produce a fair result, is for the State itself to determine."
And we see no constitutional reason why a State may not,

BANK OF OXFORD v. LOVE.
5906.

Syllabus.

in ascertaining the amount of such compensation in particular cases, take into consideration any substantial physical impairment attributable to the injury, whether it immediately affects earning capacity or not.
For the reasons thus outlined, it was not unreasonable,
arbitrary, or contrary to fundamental right to embody in
the New York Workmen's Compensation Law a provision
for a special allowance of compensation for a serious disfigurement of the face or head. Nor is there any ground
for declaring that the allowance prescribed by the 1916
amendment exceeds the constitutional limitations upon
state power.
Whether an award for such disfigurement should be
made in combination with or independent of the compensation allowed for the mere inability to work is a matter of
detail for the State to determine. The same is true of the
question whether the compensation should be paid in a
single sum, or in instalments. Arizona Employers' Liability
Cases, ante, 400, 429.
Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissents.

BANK OF OXFORD ET AL. v. LOVE ET AL., BANK
EXAMINERS OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE STATE OF

MISSISSIPPI.
No. 9. Submitted March 27, 1918; restored to docket for oral argument April 22, 1918; argued October 10, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

A provision in the special charter of a state bank that its business shall
be confided to and controlled by its stockholders under such rules
as it may adopt, not in conflict with the Constitution of the United

