528

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

citizens of the United States in their employment against
non-citizens of the United States," and provided that an
employer of more than five workers at any one time in
that State should not employ less than eighty per cent.
qualified electors or native born citizens, and that any
employer who did so should be subject upon conviction
to the payment of a fine and to imprisonment. It was
held that such a law denied aliens an opportunity of
earning a livelihood and deprived them of their liberty
without due process of law, and denied them the equal
protection of the laws. As against the Chinese merchants
of the Philippines, we think the present law, which deprives them of something indispensable to the carrying
on of their business, and is obviously intended chiefly to
affect them as distinguished from the rest of the community, is a denial to them of the equal protection of
the laws.
We hold the law in question to be invalid.
Judgment reversed.
ALEJANDRINO v. QUEZON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPRE'ME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 309.

Submitted May 4, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. The Jurisdictional Act of September 6, 1916, repealed the provision of the Philippine Autonomy Act giving this Court jurisdiction to review by writ of error the final judgments of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands in cases involving the Constitution, or any statute, treaty, title, or privilege of the United States
or where the value in controversy exceeds $25,000, and substituted
a review of such judgments by certiorari. P. 529.
2. The questions whether a member of the Philippine Senate appointed by the Governor General under the Autonomy Act, could
be suspended by the elected members, and whether, if their action

were invalid, the Supreme Court of the Islands, in this suit against

ALEJANDRINO v. QUEZON.
528

Opinion of the Court.

those members, had jurisdiction to require them, by mandamus or
injunction, to re-admit him as an active member, became moot in
this case, owing to the expiration of the period of suspension; and
no other question being involved save the incidental one of the
petitioner's right to recover unpaid salary during the period of
suspension, and that being an issue concerning which the present
petition fails to furnish sufficient informat-on to enable the court
in any event to afford a remedy, and one, furthermore, which
would properly be tried in a separate proceeding against some
executive officer or officers charged with the ministerial duty of
paying such salary,--the cause as a whole must be treated as moot;
and, following the established practice of this Court, the judgment
below, dismissing the petition for want of jurisdiction, is vacated,
•ind the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the petition,
without costs. P. 532.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Philippines dismissing, for want of jurisdiction, an orig-

inal proceeding, for injunction and mandamus, brought by
an appointed member of the Senate of the Islands, against
its twenty-two elected members, including its President,
and its Secretary, its Sergeant at Arms and its Paymaster,
in which the petitioner challenged the validity of a resolution of the Senate suspending him from the prerogatives, privileges, and emoluments of his office during one
year from January 1st, 1924, and sought to have it set
aside and recognition of his rights as Senator enforced.
The judgment below was entered on September 22, 1924.
Mr. Claro M. Recto for petitioner.
No appearance for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT prepared the opinion of the

Court.'
This cause was brought here by certiorari under § 5 of
the Act of September 6, 1916, to amend the Judicial Code,
'The opinion was announced by MR. JUSTICE HOLAIES, the CHIEF
JUsTicE being absent.
9542'-26N--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. That Act repealed § 248 of the
Judicial Code, re-enacted by § 27 of the so-called Philippine Autonomy Act, c. 416, 39 Stat. 545, 555, which gave
jurisdiction to this Court to examine by writ of error the
final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of the
Islands in all cases in which the Constitution or any statute, treaty, title or privilege of the United States, was
involved, or in cases in which the value in controversy
exceeded $25,000; and a review of such judgments by
writ of certiorari was substituted. The certiorari here
was granted because a statute of the United States, to
wit, the Autonomy Act, was involved.
This proceeding was an original action in the Supreme
Court of the Philippines, brought by Jos6 Alejandrino,
a Senator appointed by the Governor General, seeking a
mandamus and an injunction against the twenty-two
elected members of the Senate, including its President, its
Secretary, its Sergeant at Arms, and its Paymaster. The
occasion for the proceeding was a resolution of the Senate,
passed February 5, 1924, and reading as follows:
"Resolved: That the Honorable Jos6 Alejandrino,
Senator from the Twelfth District, be, and he is hereby,
declared guilty of disorderly conduct and flagrant violation of the privileges of the Senate for having treacherously assaulted the Honorable Vicente de Vera, Senator
for the Sixth District, on the occasion of certain phrases
being uttered by the latter in the course of the debate
regarding the credentials of said Mr. Alejandrino.
"Resolved further: That the Honorable Jos6 Alejandrino be, and he is hereby, deprived of all of his prerogatives, privileges and emoluments as such Senator
during one year from the first of January, nineteen hundred and twenty-four;
"And resolved, lastly: That the said Honorable Jos6
Alejandrino being a Senator appointed by the Governor
General of these Islands, a copy of this resolution be furnished said Governor-General for his information."

ALEJANDRINO v. QUEZON.
528

531

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner charged that this resolution was unconstitutional and of no effect and asked a preliminary
injunction against the respondents enjoining them from
executing the resolution, a judicial declaration that it was
null and void, and a final order of mandamus against the
respondents, ordering them to recognize the rights of the
petitioner and his office as Senator, and all of his prerogatives, privileges and emoluments, and prohibiting
them from carrying the order of suspension into effect.
The respondents made a special appearance through the
Attorney General and objected on demurrer to the court's
jurisdiction. The court held that it was without jurisdiction, sustained the demurrer, and, as it did not appear
that the petition could be amended so as to state a cause
of action, it was dismissed without costs.
Jos6 Alejandrino was appointed under the Philippine
Autonomy Act, by the Governor-General, a Senator to
represent the Twelfth District-a district composed of
non-Christian tribes in the northern part of Luzon and
the Moros in the Department of Mindanao and Sulu. At
the thne he took his seat in the Senate, another Senator,
Vicente de Vera, made a speech on the credentials of
Senator Alejandrino in which he said some things which
Alejandrino resented. At night, and after the session of
the Senate concluded, and away from the Senate chamber,
Alejandrino assaulted de Vera because of his remarks
made in the Senate. The resolution complained of was
because of this assault.
By § 12 of the Autonomy Act, the general legislative
powers in the Philippines, with certain exceptions, are
vested in a Legislature consisting of two Houses-the
Senate and the House of Representatives. The Senate is
composed of twenty-four members from twelve Senate
districts. Twenty-two of them are elected; and one district, the Twelfth, already referred to, has two Senators,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

appointed by the Governor General. By § 17, a Senator
appointed by the Governor General holds office until removed by the Governor General. Section 18 provides
that the Senate and House respectively shall be the sole
judges of the elections, returns and qualifications of their
elective members, and each House may determine the
rules of its proceedings, punish its members for disorderly
behavior, and with the concurrence of two-thirds expel an
elective member. The Senators and Representatives
shall receive an annual compensation for their services
to be ascertained by law and paid out of the Treasury
of the Philippine Islands. Senators and Representatives
shall in all cases, except treason, felony and breach of the
peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance
at the session of their respective Houses and in going to
and returning from the same; and for any speech or
debate in either House they shall not be questioned in
any other place.
It is argued that, as the only power of expulsion given
to the Senate is in respect of its elected members, no
power is conferred on the Senate to expel a member appointed by the Governor General. It is further argued
that the power to suspend is only a less power than the
power to expel and of the same character, and therefore
that the Senate had no power to suspend an appointed
Senator, and therefore that the Senate exceeded its authority in attempting to do so in this resolution, and its
action was null.
We do not think that we can consider this question, for
the reason that the period of suspension fixed in the resolution has expired, and, so far as we are advised, Alejandrino is now exercising his functions as a member of
the Senate. It is therefore in this Court a moot question
whether lawfully he could be suspended in the way in
which he was. Equally so is the still more important
question whether the Supreme Court of the Philippines

ALEJANDRINO v. QUEZON.
528

533

Opinion of the Court.

had any jurisdiction by extraordinary writ of mandamus
or injunction to require the Senate-a part of the Island
Legislature, and a separate branch of the Governmentto rescind its resolution and to re-admit Alejandrino to
the Senate as an active member.
It may be suggested, as an objection to our vacating the
action of the court below, and directing the dismissal of
the petition as having become a moot case, that, while
the lapse of time has made unnecessary and futile a writ
of mandamus to restore Senator Alejandrino to the Island
Senate, there still remains a right on his part to the recovery of his emoluments, which were withheld during his
suspension, and that we ought to retain the case for the
purpose of determining whether he may not have a mandamus for this purpose. We are not advised from his
petition what the emoluments of his office during that
period would be, except his salary. We infer from the
averment of his petition that, as the suspension was in
part retroactive, he was not paid what was due him during
the month of January, 1924. It is difficult for the Court
to deal with this feature of the case, which is really only a
mere incident to the main question made in the petition
and considered in the able and extended brief of counsel
for the petitioner, and the only brief before us. That
brief is not in any part of it directed to the subject of
emoluments, nor does it refer us to any statute or to the
rules of the Senate by which the method of paying Senators' salaries is provided, or in a definite way describe the
duties of the officer or officers or cormnittee charged with
the ministerial function of paying them. The petition, in
describing the defendants, avers that certain of them, being Senators, "are besides members of the Committee on
Accounts of the Senate who approve the payment of
emoluments that Senators are entitled to receive." Section 7 of the petition is as follows:
"That the defendants, in the respective capacities in
which they are sued, attempt to comply with, execute and

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

carry into effect, or to cause to be complied with, executed
and carried into effect, the suspension of the plaintiff depriving him, during the period of one year, of the exercise
of his office and of all of his prerogatives, privileges and
emoluments as Senator, as said defendant Senators and
their President do not recognize the plaintiff's right to
exercise such office and prevent him from exercising same.
and cause all the officers, employes and other subordinates
of the Senate not to recognize the plaintiff as Senator and
to prevent him from exercising his office and enjoying his
prerogatives, privileges and emoluments, and the President of the Senate, moreover, gives the necessary orders
for the carrying into effect of said order of suspension, and
the other defendants Faustino Aguilar and Bernabe Bustamente execute and comply with the orders and restrictions of the Senate and its President in order that the
plaintiff may not be recognized as Senator and may not
exercise his prerogatives and privileges as such Senator in
the Senate building, and the defendant Francisco Dayaw,
Official Paymaster of the Senate, requires him to refund
his emoluments received corresponding to the period that
has already elapsed from January 1st of this year and
refuses to pay the emoluments to which the plaintiff is
entitled."
We must assume, in view of the injunction of Congress in the Autonomy Act, that Senators shall receive an
annual compensation to be fixed by law, that there is
some official or board charged with the executive and
ministerial duty of paying the senatorial salaries against
whom a Senator entitled might procure a mandamus to
compel payment. But the averments of the petition do
not set out with sufficient clearness who that official or
set of officials may be. Were that set out, the remedy of
the Senator would seem to be by mandamus to compel
such official in the discharge of his ministerial duty to
pay him the salary due, and the presence of the Senate

ALEJANDRINO v. QUEZON.
528

535

Opinion of the Court.

as a party would be unnecessary. Should that official
rely upon the resolution of the Senate as a reason for
refusing to comply with his duty to pay Senators, the
validity of such a defense and the validity of the resolution might become a judicial question affecting the personal right of the complaining Senator, properly to be disposed of in such action, but not requiring the presence of
the Senate as a party for its adjudication. The right of
the petitioner to his salary does not therefore involve the
very serious issue raised in this petition as to the power of
the Philippine Supreme Court to compel by mandamus
one of the two legislative bodies constituting the legislative branch of the Government to rescind a resolution
adopted by it in asserted lawful discipline of one of its
members, for disorder and breach of privilege. We think,
now that the main question as to the validity of the suspension has become moot, the incidental issue as to the
remedy which the suspended Senator may have in recovery of his emoluments, if illegally withheld, should properly be tried in a separate proceeding against an executive officer or officers as described. As we are not able
to derive from the petition sufficient information upon
which properly to afford such a remedy, we must treat the
whole cause as moot and act accordingly. This action
on our part of course is without prejudice to a suit by
Senator Alejandrino against the proper executive officer or
conmmittee by way of mandamus or otherwise to obtain
payment of the salary which may have been unlawfully
withheld from him.
The case having become moot as respects its main features, and the other feature being incidental and not in
itself a proper subject for determination as now presented, further steps looking to an adjudication of the
cause can neither be had here nor in the court below.
In this situation we must, following the established practice of this Court, vacate the judgment below and remand

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

536

Syllabus.

271 U. S.

the cause with directions to dismiss the petition without
costs to either party. Public Utility Commissioners v.
Compania General De Tabacos De Flipinas, 249 U. S.
425; Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261 U. S. 216, and cases

cited.
Judgment vacated with directions to dismiss petition without costs to either party.

GOLTRA v. WEEKS, SECRETARY OF WAR,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 718. Argued April 27, 28, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. A suit by one who had obtained lawful possession of a fleet of
boats belonging to the United States, under a lease or charter for
a term of years executed by the Chief of Engineers by direction
of the Secretary of War, to enjoin the latter official and an army
officer from wrongfully and forcibly taking possession of the boats
in pursuance of an alleged conspiracy between them, and to require
the defendants to restore some of the boats already so taken, is not
a suit against the United States, and the United States is not a
necessary party. PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, followed. Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335, distinguished. P. 544.
2. A stipulation in a lease authorizing the lessor to terminate the
lease and retake the property if, in his judgment, the lessee is not
complying with his obligations under the contract, is valid, and, in
the absence of bad faith, the lessor's judgment on the question of
compliance is conclusive. P. 547.
3. In a suit by a lessee to enjoin threatened retaking of leased property, where it appeared, on motion for a preliminary injunction,
that the defendant had actually taken the property from the
plaintiff's possession, but also, upon a full showing, that he had a
clear right to retake it under the lease, held that plaintiff was not
entitled to a temporary injunction restoring the possession pendente
lite, even though the retaking had been accomplished through a
wrongful show of force and was timed to avoid an injunction.
P. 548.
7 Fed. (2d) 838, affirmed.

