UNION INSULATING CO. v. U. S.
109

Opinion of the Court.

The judgment below must be reversed. The cause will
be remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
UNION INSULATING & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM T]H
No. 263.

COURT OF CLAIMS.

Submitted April 21, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.

1. Stipulations by the United States, in a construction contract, to
furnish a right of way for ingress and egress to and from the
places where materials to be furnished by the United States were
stored and the place of their use in the work, construed, in relation
to other facts, as allowing the contractor to use a right of way on
which was a railroad, but not as obliging the Government to put
the railroad in repair. P. 122.
2. Damages will not be awarded for a slight delay in starting work
under a contract, not satisfactorily shown to have been caused
wholly by the Government, where the contractor made no protest
at the time and no claim until nine months later. P. 124.
59 Ct. Cls. 582, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting claims under a building contract.
APPEAL

Messrs. Edmund D. Adcock and George I. Haight were
on the brief for appellant.
Solicitor GeneralMitchell and Assistant Attorney General Galloway were on the brief for the United States.

MIR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant sued the United States in the Court of
Claims for $30,697.73, for breach of a contract made by
it with the United States for certain construction work
at the government nitrate plant No. 2 at Muscle Shoals,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Alabama. The work was done and the contract price
paid. The amount here sued for was made up of nine
claims for damages for breaches and extras. The Court
of Claims found against the claimant on every cause of
action alleged." Appeal to this Court relates to only two
of them.
The first is for $3,059.65, and is based on the alleged
failure of the United States to furnish a right of way as
stipulated in the contract for use in hauling materials to
the place of construction.
After providing that the contractor should furnish certain materials for construction, the contract read:
"The U. S. of America to furnish at its present location
on the reservation at U. S. Nitrate Plant No. 2, all other
construction materials, the Contractor to perform all necessary labor required in transporting such materials to
the proper place for use in construction, the U. S. of
America at all times to furnish the necessary right of way
for ingress and egress to the place of present storage of
such materials and the place of ultimate use in construction.
"The United States Government further agrees to furnish to the Contractor for the purpose of transporting
materials and performing the necessary construction work,
such tools and equipment including locomotives, flat cars,
dump cars, hoisting engines, locomotive cranes, steam
shovels, concrete mixers, air compressors, automobile
trucks, clam shell buckets, etc., as are now the property
of the United States Government and available at U. S.
Nitrate Plant No. 2, and in such quantities as in the discretion of the Constructing Quartermaster, may be reasonably necessary for such use in construction and further
may be reasonably furnished by the United States Government without material detriment or inconvenience to
the United States Government. The Contractor to accept such equipment as is and to assume all responsibility

UNION INSULATING CO. v. U. S.
121

Opinion of the Court.

for placing such equipment in first class working condition and the proper care and maintenance of such equipment from the time it is turned over to hhn by the
Constructing Quartermaster."
Finding No. 2 by the court is
" The right of way furnished by the United States consisted of railroad tracks running from the site of the work
to the storage yards. These tracks were used by others
and were not in good condition when the plaintiff submitted its bid, nor were they in any worse condition when
it began its work under the contract. The United States
did not keep the tracks in good condition during the
period of the performance of the contract, but turned
them over to the plaintiff for its use with the necessary
rolling stock. The plaintiff expended the sum of $705.50
for labor in repairing railroad tracks, and $700.66 for
making repairs to equipment damaged by reason of the
defective tracks; it also expended the further sum of
$1653.49 for labor in connection with derailments."
What the Government agreed to furnish was a right of
way, not a railroad for transportation. It agreed that
ingress and egress by this right of way should at all times
(luring the performance of the contract, be given the contractor, and such ingress and egress were afforded it. The
defective track on the right of way was evident to the
contractor when it made the contract, and the reasonable
construction of the contract is that the contractor, in
order to avail itself of the right of way with constant
ingress and egress, took over the track as it was as part
of the equipment for transportation, just as it did the
locomotive and cars, and as it found it, with sole responsibility for placing it in working condition and maintaining it for its use. It is clear that the Court of Claims
was right in rejecting this claim.
The other claim was for damages for delay by the Government in arranging for the contractor's start upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

work. The contract provided that the work should be
commenced on June 10, 1920, and by that time the contractor had its executive office force at the plant. The
contractor was able to begin work on June 13. The delay
resulted from the inability to get material issued to the
contractor. The actual amount expended for salary and
services to the persons kept waiting was $360. No complaint and no protest were made by the contractor at the
time and no claim was filed by the contractor until March
14, 1921. The holding of the Court of Claims was that
because it did not satisfactorily appear that the delay was
due wholly to the Government and in view of the absence
of a claim or protest for nine months thereafter, the claim
should be rejected. We concur in this.
Judgment affirmed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY ET
AL. v. NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT
PENNSYLVANIA.

OF THE STATE

OF

No. 230. Argued April 13, 14, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.
1. The provision of the Transportation Act, 1920, ยง 208a, forbidding
reductions of rates during six months following termination of
federal control unless approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, was applicable to intrastate rates, was valid as so applied,
and included indirect reductions through reparation orders attempted by state authority. P. 125.
2. Whether a federal right was lost by failure to comply with state
procedure, is open to re-examination by this Court on review of a
state court's judgment. P. 126.
3. The state court sustained on appeal an order of a commission
granting reparation in clear violation of the Transportation Act.
Held that the railroad was entitled to relief in this Court on
review of the judgment, although the state court based it on the
ground that the railroad waived its right by not appealing from

