LAKE SUPERIOR MINES v. LORD.
Syllabus.

LAKE SUPERIOR CONSOLIDATED IRON MINES
ET. AL v.

BURROWS

LORD

ET AL. v.

ET AL.

LORD

ROYAL MINERAL ASSOCIATION

ET AL.
ET AL.

V. LORD

ET AL.

BOEING

ET AL.

WHITESIDE

V. LORD

ET AL.

ET AL.

v. LORD

ET AL.

MERRIMAC MINING COMPANY v. LORD
BARDWELL

ET AL.

ET AL.

v. SARGENT LAND CO. ET AL.

PPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

Nos. 336, 355, 388, 389, 390, 391, and 471. Argued December 8, 9,
1925.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. The obligation of an outstanding contract is not impaired, contrary
to Const. Art. I, ยง 10, by a later state statute taxing the proceeds
of the contract. P. 581.
2. Minnesota Laws of 1923, e. 226, directing levy and collection of a
tax of 6 per cent. on royalties received for permission to explore,
mine, take out and remove ore from land in the State, may be reasonably interpreted as laying a tax upon interests in mineral lands
from which permission has been given to extract ores upon payment
of royalty, the amount of the exaction being determined by reference to the sum actually received for the use of such interests,
Von Bauntbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 305, and does not
violate the requirement of the state constitution that "taxes shall
be uniform upon the same class of subjects and shall be levied and
collected for public purposes," or the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 581.
3. As the tax is laid upon land, neither the owner's residence nor the
place fixed for payment of the royalty is important. P. 582.
4. Ore lands being a distinct class of property, the tax is consistent
with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
without being extended to other classes, such as quarries and forests. P. 582.
9542*-26-----37

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

5. The state Legislature may exercise wide discretion in selecting the
subjects of taxation so long as it refrains from clear and hostile
discrimination against particular persons or classes. P. 582.
Affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees of the District Court dismissing
the bills in suits against the Tax Commission of the State
of Minnesota to enjoin them from enforcing a tax on
royalties from ore lands.

Messrs. George W. Morgan,Nathan L. Miller, Kenneth
B. Halstead, Frank D. Adams, and Elmer F. Blu for the
appellants in No. 336, submitted.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. John W.
Beaumont, George W. Weadock, Martin J. Cavanaugh,
and Archibald Broomfield were on the brief, for appellants
in No. 355.
Mr. W. D. Bailey, with whom Messrs. J. L. Washburn,
Oscar Mitchell, and J. W. Hunt were on the briefs, for
appellants in Nos. 388, 389, 390, and 39L
Messrs. John R. Van Derlip and John G. Milburn, with
whom Messrs. Fred B. Snyder and Edward C. Gale were
on the brief, for appellants in No. 471.
Mr. Patrick J. Ryan, with whom Messrs. Clifford L.
Hilton and G. A. Youngquist were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By their several bills in the United States District
Court, appellants alleged the invalidity of Chapter 226,
Laws of Minnesota, approved April 11, 1923, because of
conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment and the State
Constitution. They sought to prevent its enforcement.
That court held the enactment valid and, by decrees en-

LAKE SUPERIOR MINES v. LORD.
577

Opinion of the Court.

tered January 15, 1925, dismissed the bills. These appeals followed.
The challenged Act (fourteen sections), effective from
its passage, provides-"Sec. 1. There shall be levied and collected upon all
royalty received during the year ending December 31,
1923, and upon all royalty received during each calendar
year thereafter, for permission to explore, mine, take out
and remove ore from land in this State, a tax of six (6)
per cent.
"Sec. 2. For all purposes of this Act the word 'royalty'
shall be construed to mean the amount in money or value
of property received by any person having any right, title
or interest in or to any tract of land in this state for permission to explore, mine, take out and remove ore therefrom; and the word' person' shall be construed to include
individuals, co-partnerships, associations, companies and
corporations."
Succeeding sections relate to reports to the Tax Commission, method of assessment, penalties, date of payment,
etc. Section 5 provides: "A person subletting land for
the use of which he received royalty shall be required to
pay taxes only on the difference between the amount of
royalty paid by him and the amount received." And Section 8: "The situs of royalty for all purposes of this act
shall be in this state; and the tax herein provided for shall
be a specific lien from the time the same is due and payable upon all and singular the right, title and interest of
the person to whom such royalty is payable, in and to the
land for permission to explore, mine, take out and remove
ore on which the royalty is paid."
Article IX, Section 1, Constitution of Minnesota: "The
power of taxation shall never be surrendered, suspended
or contracted away. Taxes shall be uniform upon the
same class of subjects, and shall be levied and collected
for public purposes . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opiuion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Extensive areas in northeastern Minnesota contain beds
of rich iron ore and derive their chief value therefrom.
Titles to these lands are held by many resident and nonresident individuals and corporations. For many years
these owners have followed- the common practice of making long-term leases (ordinarily fifty years) to parties
who agree to mine the ore and pay the lessor, or his successors, at some designated place, a specified amount
($.125 to $1.25), or royalty, for each ton removed. Some
lessees have made subleases, reserving to themselves something above what they are obligated to pay.
Great bodies of ore are now subject to such leases, or
conveyances of similar import, and every year millions of
tons are mined thereunder, most of which goes out of the
State. The consequent royalties are very large-sixteen
million dollars during 1923.
In 1921, the Minnesota Legislature adopted the Occupation Tax Act-Chapter 223. It prescribes a charge
upon those who engage in mining, amounting to six per
centum of the value of the ore extracted and removed,
after deducting costs of operation and royalties. Oliver
Iron Mining Co. et al, v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, sustained
this Act. The Legislature evidently intended that Chapter 226, Laws of 1923, should supplement Chapter 223,
Laws of 1921, and thus secure payment to the State of
six per centum upon the value of all extracted ores, less
the expense of raising them. If the owner operates, he
must pay this six per centum, under the Occupation Tax
Act; if a lessee mines, the Act requires him to pay the
same amount, less royalty. The Act of 1923 lays a charge
of six per centum upon the royalty. See State v. Armson,
207 N. W. 727, 731.
Appellants-corporate and individual-receive royalties from iron mines, under lease or similar contracts, at
designated places, sometimes within and sometimes without the State, Some of them reside within the State, and

LAKE SUPERIOR MINES v. LORD.
577

Opinion of the Court.

some without. Some own the fee; some are lessees who
have executed subleases. They maintain that the tax
prescribed by Chapter 226 of 1923 is not laid uniformly
upon the same class of subjects, as required by the State
Constitution; that its enforcement would deprive them
of the equal protection of the laws and of property without due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment; and that it impairs the obligation of their
contracts and thereby violates Article I, Section 10, federal Constitution.
Titles to all the lands and leases were obtained subject
to the State's power to tax. If the statute now in controversy is within that power, it cannot impair the obligation of appellants' contracts; if beyond, it is, of course,
invalid. Accordingly, there is no occasion further to discuss the application of Article I, Section 10.
The only provision of the Minnesota Constitution
which undertakes to limit the power of taxation, is in
Article IX, Section 1. "Taxes shall be uniform upon the
same class of subjects, and shall be levied and collected
for public purposes." The state courts have said nothing
to the contrary, and it seems to us sufficiently plain that
this provision goes no further than the Fourteenth
Amendment. Consequently, if the legislation under review does not offend that Amendment there is no conflict
with the State Constitution.
In Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 503,
we considered mining leases like those now before us and
pointed out that under the Minnesota decisions their
avails are regarded as rents and profits of the land, "the
compensation which the occupier pays the landlord for
the species of occupation which the contract between
them allows." Ultimate construction of Chapter 226 is
for the state courts, but, in the absence of that, we think
the enactment may be reasonably interpreted as laying a
tax upon interests in mineral lands from which permission

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

has been given to extract ores upon payment of royalty.
The amount of the exaction is determined by reference to
the sum actually received for the use of such interests.
As the tax is laid upon land, neither the owner's residence nor the place fixed for payment of the royalty is
important.
The remaining question is whether the Legislature may
treat ore lands as a distinct class of property and impose
upon them a tax not extended to quarries, forests, etc.,
without depriving their owners of the equal protection of
the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
And this question must be answered in the affirmative,
under the principles announced in Heisler v. Thomas
Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, where we sustained a tax confined to anthracite coal against the objection of arbitrary
classification in that bituminous coal was not included.
The State Legislature may exercise wide discretion in
selecting the subjects of taxation (Oliver Iron Mining
Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, 179) so long as it refrains from
clear and hostile discrimination against particular persons or classes. Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S. 232, 237. Certainly, ores differ as much from
other products of the land as anthracite coal does from the
bituminous variety, and ore gives character to appellants'
holdings. Lands chiefly valuable for ore are depreciated
by its extraction, and probably will yield less and less
under an ad valorem tax as the mining continues. The
situation is very different where the principal value depends on other uses which do not deplete. The selection
of the business of mining only, for imposition of the occupation tax, was not arbitrary and, certainly, we cannot
say that the classification by the legislation now assailed
was without any reasonable basis.
There is nothing to show purpose by the State officers
to insist upon a construction or application of the statute which will deprive appellants of their constitutional

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
577

583

Statement of the Case.

rights; and, considering the true construction of the Act,
no ground appears which would justify an injunction to
prevent them from proceeding with its orderly enforcement.
Affirmed.
FROST & FROST TRUCKING CO. v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 828. Argued April 21, 22, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. Assuming that the use of its highways by private carriers for
hire is a privilege which the State may deny, it can not constitutionally affix to that privilege the unconstitutional condition precedent that the carrier shall assume against his will the burdens and
duties of a common carrier. P. 592.
2. Under the Auto Stage and Truck Transportation Act of California, as amended in 1919, and as construed and applied by the
state supreme court in this case, private carriers by automobile
for hire can not operate over the state highways between fixed
termini without having first secured from the Railroad Commission a certificate of public convenience and necessity, and therein
they not merely become subject to regulations appropriate to
private carriers but submit themselves to the condition of becoming common carriers and of being regulated as such by the Commission. Held violative of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 591.
70 Cal. Dec. 457, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California which sustained an order of the Railroad Commission
directing the plaintiffs in error to suspend operations
under a single private contract for the transportation of
fruit over public highways, between fixed termini, unless
and until they should secure from the Commission a certificate that public convenience and necessity required the
resumption or continuance thereof.

