ENGEL v. DAVENPORT.
Counsel for Parties.

ENGEL v. DAVENPORT
CERTIORARI

TO THE SUPREME

ET AL.

COURT OF THE STATE OF

CALIFORNIA.

No. 189.

Submitted January 26, 1926.--Decided April 12, 1926.

1. A complaint by a seaman against a ship owner for damages for
injuries alleged to have resulted from the owner's negligence in
furnishing a defective appliance, held an action under the Merchant
Marine Act as supplemented by the Employers' Liability Act, in
which the plaintiff must prove negligence and subject himself to
reduction of damages in proportion to any contributory negligence
on his part. P. 36.
2. The state courts have jurisdiction, concurrently with the federal
courts, to enforce the right of action established by the Merchant
Marine Act as a part of the maritime law. P. 37.
3. The provision of the Employers' Liability Act that "no action
shall be maintained under this Act unless commenced within two
years from the day the cause of action accrued," is one of substantive right, both setting a limit and necessarily implying that
the action may be maintained, as a substantive right, within that
period. P. 38.
4. This provision was incorporated by adoption in the Merchant
Marine Act, and controls in actions brought under that Aet in
state courts, regardless of the statutes of limitations of the States.
P. 38.
194 Cal. 344, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
California which affirmed a judgment dismissing, on demurrer, a complaint in an action for damages, brought by
Engel against Davenport.

Mr. H. W. Hutton for petitioner.
Messrs. Edward J. -11cCutchen and Farnham P. Grif-

fiths for respondents.
9542o

26_3

OCTOBER TERMI, 1925.

34

Opinion of the Court.
MR JUSTICE SANFORD

271 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The questions involved in this case relate to the effect
of § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 988,
c. 250, which amended § 20 of the Seamen's Act of 1915,
38 Stat. 1164, c. 153, to read as follows: "That any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in the course of his
employment may, at his election, maintain an action for
damages at law, with the right of trial by jury, and in
such action all statutes of the United States modifying or
extending the common-law right or remedy in cases of
personal injury to railway employees shall apply; and in
case of the death of any seaman as a result of any such
personal injury the personal representative of such seaman may maintain an action for damages at law with the
right of trial by jury, and in such action all statutes of
the United States conferring or regulating the right of
action for death in the case of railway employees shall
be applicable. Jurisdiction in such actions shall be under
the court of the district in which the defendant employer
resides or in which his principal office is located."
Engel, the petitioner, brought this action at law, in
January, 1923, in a Superior Court of California, against
the respondent Davenport, one of the owners of a vessel
on which he had been employed as a seaman,' to recover
damages for personal injuries suffered, in April, 1921,
while he was engaged in placing a chain lashing around
part of a cargo of lumber that had been taken on board
the vessel at a port of landing. The complaint alleged,
in substance, that the vessel had been negligently sent
upon her voyage when unseaworthy and equipped with
'Although other owners of the vessel were also named as defendants
in the complaint, the record does not indicate that any of them were
served with process or entered their appearance, the suit apparently
having been prosecuted against Davenport alone.

ENGEL v. DAVENPORT.
33

Opinion of the Court.

defective appliances, in that a pelican hook, which was a
necessary part of the chain lashing used in carrying the
cargo, had in it a flaw observable upon ordinary inspection; that this hook was not inspected; and that it broke
by reason of this flaw, causing the injuries in question.
Davenport demurred to the complaint, on the ground,
inter alia, that the cause of action was barred by § 340,
subd. 3, of the California Code of Civil Procedure, which
required an action for personal injury caused by wrongful act or negligence to be commenced within one year.
This demurrer was sustained, without leave to amend;
and judgment was entered in favor of Davenport, which
was affirmed, on appeal, by the Supreme Court of the
State. 194 Cal. 344. This writ of certiorari was then
granted. 266 U. S. 600.
The petitioner contends that the suit is one founded
on § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, of which the state
courts have jurisdiction concurrently with the federal
courts; and that, by virtue of § 6 of the Employer's
Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65, c. 149, incorporated in the provisions of the Merchant Marine Act, it might be commenced within two years after the cause of action accrued,
irrespective of the state statute.
The respondent contends, on the other hand, that the
suit is not founded on the Merchant Marine Act and its
provisions therefore have no application; and that, in any
event, § 6 of the Employer's Liability Act is not incorporated in the Merchant Marine Act and does not determine the period of time within which an action may be
commenced in a state court.
It is settled by the decision in Panana Railroad v.
Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, that § 33 of the Merchant Marine
Act is an exercise of the power of Congress to alter or
supplement the maritime law by changes that are country-wide and uniform in operation; that it brings into
the maritime law new rules drawn from the Employer's

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Liability Act and its amendments--adopted by the
generic reference to "all statutes of the United States
modifying or extending the common law right or remedy
in cases of personal injuries to railway employees "-and
"extends to injured seamen a right to invoke, at their
election, either the relief accorded by the old rules or that
provided by the new rules "; that is, that it grants them,
as an alternative, the common law remedy of an action
"to recover compensatory damages under the new rules
as distinguished from the allowances covered by the old
rules," which, as a modification of the maritime law, may
be enforced through appropriate proceedings in personaw
on the common-law side of the courts.
1. The present suit is not brought merely to enforce the
liability of the owner of the vessel to indemnity for
injuries caused by a defective appliance, without regard
to negligence, for which an action at law could have been
maintained prior to the Merchant Marine Act, Carlisle
Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. 255; and we need
not determine whether if it had been thus brought under
the old rules, the state statute of limitations would have
been applicable. See Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, 257
U. S. 233. Here the complaint contains an affirmative
averment of negligence in respect to the appliance. And,
having been brought after the passage of the Merchant
Marine Act, we think the suit is to be regarded as one
founded on that Act, in which the petitioner, instead of
invoking, as he might, the relief accorded him by the old
maritime rules, has elected to seek that provided by the
new rules in an action at law based upon negligence-in
which he not only assumes the burden of proving negligence, but also, under § 3 of the Employers Liability Act,
subjects himself to a reduction of the damages in proportion to any contributory negligence on his part. This
conclusion is in harmony with the Panama RailroadCase,
pp. 382, 383, in which the complaint charged that the

ENGEL v. DAVENPORT.
33

Opinion of the Court.

injuries resulted from negligence in providing a defective
appliance and in other respects; and it is not in conflict
with the Carlisle Packing Co. Case, in which, as shown
by the original record, the suit was commenced in 1918,
prior to the Merchant Marine Act. And see Lorang v.
Steamship Co. (D. C.), 298 Fed. 547, and Lynott v. Transit Corporation,202 App. Div. 613.
2. It is clear that the state courts have jurisdiction concurrently with the federal courts, to enforce the right of
action established by the Merchant Marine Act as a part
of the maritime law. This was assumed in Re East River
Co., 266 U. S. 355, 368; and expressly held in Lynott v.
Transit Corporation, supra, affirmed, without opinion, in
234 N. Y. 626. And it has been implied in various decisions in the District Courts involving the question of
the right to remove to a federal court a suit that had been
commenced in a state court.
By a provision of the Judiciary Act of 1789, now embodied in § 24, subd. 3, and § 256, subd. 3 of the Judicial
Code, giving District Courts original jurisdiction of civil
causes of admirality and maritime jurisdiction, there is
saved to suitors in all cases the right of a comnon law
remedy where the conunon law is competent to give it.
In Chelentis v. Steamship Co., 247 U. S. 372, 384, where
the suit had been conunenced in a state court and removed
to the federal court, it was said that, under this saving
clause, "a right sanctioned by the maritime law may be
enforced through any appropriate proceeding recognized
at common law." And the jurisdiction of the state courts
to enforce the new common law right made a part of the
maritime law, is necessarily affirmed by the provision contained in § 6 of the Employer's Liability Act -- plainly,
we think, incorporated in the Merchant Marine Act by the
generic reference-that jurisdiction of the federal courts
under the Act shall be concurrent with that of the courts
' Inserted by the amendment of 1910, 36 Stat. 291, c. 143.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

of the several States, and no case arising thereunder when
brought in any state court of competent jurisdiction shall
be removed to any federal court. Nor is the jurisdiction
in suits under §33 of the Merchant Marine Act limited to
the federal courts-as has been sometimes held in the
District Courts-by its provision that jurisdiction "shall
be under the court of the district" in which the employer
resides or his principal office is located. This, as was held
in the PanamaRailroad Case, p. 385, was not intended to
affect the general jurisdiction of the federal courts, but
only to prescribe the venue of actions brought in them
under the Act.
3. This brings us to the question whether a suit brought
in a state court to enforce the right of action granted by
the Merchant Marine Act may be commenced within two
years after the cause of action accrues, or whether a state
statute fixing a shorter period of limitation will apply.
Section 6 of the Employer's Liability Act provides that
"no action shall be maintained under this Act unless commenced within two years from the day the cause of action
accrued." This provision is one of substantive right, setting a limit to the existence of the obligation which the
Act creates. Atlantic Coast Line v. Burnette, 239 U. S.
199, 201. And it necessarily implies that the action may
be maintained, as a substantive right, if commenced
within the two years.
The adoption of an earlier statute by reference, makes
it as much a part of the later act as though it had been
incorporated at full length. Kendall v. United States,
12 Pet. 524, 625; In re Heath, 144 U. S. 92, 94; Interstate
Railway v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S. 79, 85. It brings
into the later act "all that is fairly covered by the reference," Panama Railroad Case, p. 392; that is to say, all
the provisions of the former act which, from the nature
of the subject-matter, are applicable to the later act. It
is clear that the provision of the Employer's Liability

ENGEL v. DAVENPORT.
33

Opinion of the Court.

Act as to the time within which a suit may be instituted,
is directly applicable to the subject-matter of the Merchant Marine Act and covered by the reference. In the
PanamaRailroad Case, p. 392, it was held that the contention that the Merchant Marine Act did not possess
the uniformity in operation essential to its validity as a
modification of the maritime law, was unfounded, since
the Employer's Liability Act which it adopted, had a
uniform operation, which could not be deflected from
"by local statutes or local views of common law rules."
The period of time within which an action may be commenced is a material element in such uniformity of operation. And, plainly, Congress in incorporating the provisions of the Employer's Liability Act into the Merchant
Marine Act did not intend to exclude a provision so material, and to permit the uniform operation of the Merchant Marine Act to be destroyed by the varying provisions of the state statutes of limitation.
We conclude that the provision of § 6 of the Employer's Liability Act relating to the tine of commencing the action, is a material provision of the statutes
"modifying or extending the common law right or
remedy in cases of personal injuries to railway employees"
which was adopted by and incorporated in the Merchant
Marine Act. And, as a provision affecting the substantive
right created by Congress in the exercise of its paramount
authority in reference to the maritime law, it must control in an action brought in a state court under the
Merchant Marine Act, regardless of any statute of limitations of the State. See Arnson v. Murphy, 109 U. S.
238, 243.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

