PATTERSON v. MOBILE GAS CO.
127

Syllabus.

merce Commission, 258 U. S. 158, 164; Lambert Run Coal
Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., supra. That the order
is not mandatory but permissive makes no difference in
this regard. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263.
And as the state court was without jurisdiction the federal
court acquired none by the removal. Lambert Run Coal
Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., supra.
The plaintiff cites Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70, and Texas v. Eastern
Texas R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 204, as showing jurisdiction
below; but neither case is open to such an interpretation.
In the first no order of the Commission was involved
either directly or indirectly. In the second this Court
dealt in a single opinion with two distinct proceedings.
One was a suit to set aside an order of the Commission
and was brought against the United States and a railroad
company in the proper federal district court. The other
was a prior and related suit brought in a state court
against the railroad company and removed into another
federal district court before the order was made by the
Commission. Afterwards, when the order was made, its
interpretation and operation were drawn in question in
that suit. The question of jurisdiction with which we are
concerned here was not raised there, and there is doubt
that it could have been.
We hold that the dismissal for want of jurisdiction was
right.
Decree affirmed.
PATTERSON ET AL._.v. MOBILE GAS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 226. Argued March 19, 1926.-Decided April 26, 1926.
1. Failure to make up a record in accordance with the rule is cause
for dismissing an appeal. P. 132.

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

2. Decree affirmed, in so far as it enjoined enforcement of an
order establishing confiscatory gas rates; but reversed in so far as
it undertook to adjudge a basic valuation of the company's property, as of a specified date, conclusive on the State for future ratemaking purposes, and in so far as it undertook to specify the per
cent. of net profit, the depreciation, and other allowances to which
the company should be entitled, including amortization of expenses of the suit and of losses resulting from the enjoined rates, and
to restrain further examination of the company's books and papers
for the purpose of impairing the aforesaid basic valuation. P. 134.
3. Prior to the Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925, a single District Judge, holding the court on final hearing, had power to award
a permanent injunction at variance with the views held by Circuit
Judges when the same matter was considered by the special court
on application for preliminary injunction; but such power was to
be cautiously exercised. P. 136.
290 Fed. 476, affirmed in part; reversed in part.
APPEAL from a decree of perpetual injunction in a suit
in the District Courf brought by the Gas Company to
restrain the members of the Alabama Public Service Commission from enforcing a confiscatory rate schedule, and
for other relief.

Mr. Hugh White, with whom Messrs. Harwell G. Davis,
Attorney General of Alabama, and F. J. Yerger were on
the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Harry T. Smith for appellee.
MR. JusTicF, MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The record in this cause has been made up with such
disregard of the rules that we cannot undertake to examine the evidence or to discuss seriatim the thirty-four
jumbled assignments of error. It would be permissible
to dismiss the appeal, Newton v. Cosolidated Gas Co.,
258 U. S. 165, 174; but, considering the public interest
and with purpose to prevent any serious miscarriage of

PATTERSON v. MOBILE GAS CO.
131

Opinion of the Court.

justice, we have examined the pleadings, the master's report, the opinions and the decrees. In the circumstances
we think the proper course is to modify and then to affirm
the decree of the court below.
By an original bill of August 14, 1922, the Gas Company asked that members of the Alabama Public Service
Commission be restrained from attempting to enforce a
rate schedule which it alleged was confiscatory.
A supplemental bill, filed April 18, 1923, after referring
to the original bill and proceedings thereunder, among
other things, alleged: That, as provided by the Act of the
Alabama Legislature approved October 1, 1920, the Commission ascertained and declared the value of the Company's property for rate-making purposes as of December
31, 1921, at the latter's request and expense. That this
valuation was made under a valid contract with the State
and she was obligated to accept it for rate-making purposes. That by an unconstitutional Act approved February 13, 1923, the Legislature undertook to authorize, and
the Commission intended to make, another valuation.
That so to do would violate the contract which the State
deliberately entered into and greatly injure the Company.
In addition to the relief originally asked the prayer was
for a decree declaring the Commission's valuation final
for all rate-making purposes and the challenged Act invalid. Also for an injunction restraining the Commission
from attempting to establish any new valuation for ratemaking purposes.
Upon application for an injunction under the supplemental bill the District Court-composed of two circuit
judges and one district judge-held (June 4, 1923) that
no continuing contract between the State and the Company resulted from the Commission's action in respect of
the first valuation and refused to enjoin the proposed
revaluation. District Judge Clayton expressed another
view.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Later-October 31, 1923-the District Court, Judge
Clayton only presiding, entered the following final
decree"1. That the value of the properties of the Mobile Gas
Company as of December 31st, 1921, has been definitely
fixed for the future rate-making purpose by contract entered into by the State of Alabama, acting by and through
the Alabama Public Service Commission, on the one part,
and the Mobile Gas Company, on the other part, and that
the defendants in this case and their successors in office,
are hereby forever enjoined from attempting to impair
the obligations of this contract by failing or refusing to
accept the said valuation as a permanent basic valuation
as of December 31st, 1921, for all future rate-making
purposes.
"2. Also, that the tariff of rates established by the Alabama Public Service Commission, by its order of July
24th, 1922, is confiscatory and void, and further that the
Mobile Gas Company is entitled to earn a net profit of
eight per cent. (8%) per annum upon $2,007,520.68, consisting of $1,969,565.00, which was established as the permanent basic valuation of the plaintiff's property as of
December 31st, 1921, and $37,955.68, which covers additions to property from December 31st, 1921, to December
31st, 1922, and that in ascertaining said net profit the
plaintiff must be allowed a depreciation reserve of two

and one-half per cent. (2 %) upon the value of the
property, and a further credit of $25,000.00, amortized
over a period of five years, on account of the expenses incurred in resisting the enforcement of said confiscatory

tariff of rates; and also to a further credit of $27,025.77,
amortized over a period of five years, being losses imposed
upon the plaintiff between August 12th, 1920 and November 1st, 1920, by reason of the refusal of the Alabama

Public Service Commission to permit the operation of a
schedule of rates filed by the plaintiff on August
12th, 1920.

PATTERSON v. MOBILE GAS CO.
131

Opinion of the Court.

"3. That defendants, Andrew G. Patterson, Fitzhugh
Lee and Frank P. Morgan, and their successors in office,
as members of the Alabama Public Service Commission
be and they are hereby forever enjoined from enforcing
or attempting to enforce the said tariff of rates promulgated by the order of the Alabama Public Service Commission on July 24th, 1922, or from establishing or attempting to enforce any other tariff of rates which is
insufficient to produce a return of eight per cent. (8%)
per annum upon the then value of the plaintiff's properties used and useful in the public service, assuming as
a basic valuation of said company's property on the 31st
day of December, 1922, the sum of $2,007,520.68. The
Court reserves the power to modify said injunction at
any time when, by reason of changed conditions, any
tariff of rates, the establishment and enforcement of
which is hereby forbidden, may become compensatory.
"4. Also that the defendants, and their successors in
office, are hereby forever enjoined from compelling or
attempting to compel the plaintiff to submit its properties, books, documents, accounts and vouchers, to examination by the Alabama Public Service Commission,
or its representatives for the purpose of repudiating or
in any wise impairing the valuation of the plaintiff's
properties as of the 31st day of December, 1921, as a
basic valuation for future rate-making purposes.
"5. Also, that a writ of permanent injunction issue
from this Court in accordance with this decree.
"6. The exceptions to the report of the Special Master
are hereby overruled, and the said report is hereby approved and confirmed."
To that portion of this decree which adjudged the rate
schedule prescribed by the Commission's order of July 24,
1922, confiscatory and enjoined any attempt to enforce
it we find no reason to object, and to that extent it is
affirmed.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

The remaining portions of the decree must be eliminated. We think they were improvident and go materially beyond what the circumstances require. But
whether or not they announce correct conclusions of laW,
we do not decide. The matters to which they relate are
left open and subject to further and future original consideration by any proper tribunal. While within his
powers as the law then stood, the District Judge went
very far when he entirely disregarded the views of the
circuit judges who sat on the specially-constituted court.
The statute was materially changed by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938, and now causes
like this must be finally adjudicated by a court composed
of three judges. To such a court we think the questions
to which those portions of the decree relate ought to go
before we undertake finally to pass upon them.
The approved portion of the decree will protect the
Company against immediate danger of serious injury;
and if hereafter its rights are threatened by further unlawful interference application for relief may be made
to the proper specially-constituted district court.
With the indicated modifications the decree below is
affirmed. All costs will be charged against the appellants.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD concurs in the result.

ISELIN

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM TIE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 291.

Argued April 29, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.

1. Offer by letter to buy airplane linen from the Government on
terms specified, including a warranty of quality, held not to have
been accepted by a letter, on behalf of the Government, not
acknowledging the other, differing in terms, and presumably based
on intervening negotiations not disclosed. P. 138.

