494

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

Brusegaardv. Ueland, 72 Minn. 283; Nat. Bank of Commerce v. Bossemeyer, 101 Neb. 96, 102; Walker & Brock
v. Ranlett Co., 89 Vt. 71; Aebi v. Bank of Evansville,
124 Wis. 73. See Scott v. McIntyre Co., 92 Kans. 503;
Vickers v. lachinery Warehouse & Sales Co., 111 Wash.
576. But see Implement Co. v. Bank, 128 Tenn. 320;
Packing Co. v. Davis, 118 N. C. 548.
Plaintiff having thus surrendered its rights in the
paper, only rights arising out of its contract with the initial bank remained. If those rights were affected by the
act or omission of defendant, they were affected only
because that contract so stipulated. Defendant's duties
arose out of its contract with the initial bank, or out of
its relation to that bank as owner of the paper. Hence
there was no relationship between plaintiff and defendant
which could be made the basis of recovery for defendant's
want of diligence.
Judgment affirmed.
RAFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 307. Submitted May 4, 1926.--Decided June 1, 1926.
1. A defendant in a criminal case who voluntarily testifies in his own
behalf, waives completely his privilege under the Fifth Amendment, and the Act of March 16, 1878. P. 495.
2. It is not error to require a defendant offering himself as a witness
upon a second trial and denying the truth of evidence offered by
the prosecution to disclose upon cross examination that he had
not testified as a witness in his own behalf upon the first trial,
and to explain why he did not deny the same evidence when then
offered. P. 497.

IN ANSWER to a question propounded by the Circuit
Court of Appeals upon a review of a conviction under
the Prohibition Act.

RAFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
494

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. James B. Ada mson. and George B. Martin were
on the brief for plaintiff in error.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Raffel, with another, was indicted and twice tried for
conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act.
Upon the first trial, a prohibition agent testified that,
after the search of a drinking place, iRaffel admitted that
the place belonged to him. On that trial Raffel did not
offer himself as a witness, and the jury failed to reach a
verdict. Upon the second trial the prohibition agent gave
similar testimony. Raffel took the stand and denied
making any such statement. After admitting that he
was present at the former trial, and that the same prosecuting witness had then given the same testimony, Raffel
was asked questions by the court which required him to

disclose that he had not testified at the first trial, and to
explain why he had not done so. The questions and
answers are printed in the margin.* The second trial
resulted in a conviction. On writ of error, the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit certified to this
*" Q. Did you go on the stand and contradict anything they said?
A. I did not.
Q. Why didn't you?
A. I did not see enough evidence to convict me.
Defendants object to the questions of the Court.
The Court: I am not commenting; I am just asking why he didn't.
Defendant excepts.
The Court: That is so?
The Witness: I did not think there was enough evidence to do it.
By Raffel's Counsel:
Q. The failure to take the stand on the trial was under the advice

of counsel, was it not?
A. Yes sir."

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Court (Jud. Code ยง 239) a question necessary to the
disposition of the case as follows:
"Was it error to require the defendant, Raffel, offering himself as a witness upon the second trial, to disclose
that he had not testified as a witness in his own behalf
upon the first trial."
To this, and to the similar questions which involve, not
a previous trial, but a previous preliminary examination,
or a hearing upon habeas corpus or application for bail,
the authorities have given conflicting answers. Cases
which support the Government's position are Commonwealth v. Smith, 163 Mass. 411, and People v. Prevost,
219 Mich. 233. See also Taylor v. Commonwealth, 17
K y. L. 1214; Sanders v. State, 52 Tex. Cr. 156. Compare
Garrett v. Transit Co., 219 Mo. 65, 90-95.
Other cases take an opposite view, with perhaps less
searching examination of the principles involved. See
Parrott v. Commonwealth, 20 Ky. L. 761; Newman v.
Commonwealth, 28 Ky. L. 81; Smith v. State, 90 Miss.
111; Parrott v. State, 125 Tenn. 1; Wilson v. State, 54
Tex. Cr. 505. And see People v. Prevost, supra, 246,
et seq. Compare Masterson v. Transit Co., 204 Mo. 507;
Garrettv. Transit Co., supra.
The Fifth Amendment provides that a person may not
"be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against
himself "; and by the Act of March 16, 1878, c. 37, 20
Stat. 30, it is enacted:
"That in the trial of all indictments . . . against
persons charged with the commission of crimes, offenses,
and misdemeanors, in the United States Courts .
the person so charged shall, at his own request but not
otherwise, be a competent witness. And his failure to
make such request shall not create any presumption
against him."
The immunity from giving testimony is one which the
defendant may waive by offering himself as a witness.

RAFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
494

Opinion of the Court.

Reagan v. United States, 157 U. S. 301; Fitzpatrick v.
United States, 178 U. S. 304; Powers v. United States,
223 U. S. 303; Caminetti v. QUnited States, 242 U. S. 470;
Gordon v. United States, 254 Fed. 53; Austin v. United
States, 4 Fed. (2d) 774. When he takes the stand in his
own behalf, he does so as any other witness, and within
the limits of the appropriate rules he may be crossexamined as to the facts in issue. Reagan v. United
States, supra, 305; Fitzpatrick v. United States, supra;
Tucker v. United States, 5 Fed. (2d) 818. He may be
examined for the purpose of impeaching his credibility.
Reagan v. United States, supra, 305; Fitzpatrickv. United
States, supra, 316. His failure to deny or explain evidence of incriminating circumstances of which he may
have knowledge, may be the basis of adverse inference,
and the jury may be so instructed. Caminetti v. United
States, supra. His waiver is not partial; having once cast
aside the cloak of immunity, he may not resume it at will,
whenever cross-examination may be inconvenient or
embarrassing.
If, therefore, the questions asked of the defendant were
logically relevant, and competent within the scope of the
rules of cross-examination, they were proper questions,
unless there is some reason of policy in the law of evidence
which requires their exclusion.
We may concede, without deciding, that if the defendant had not taken the stand on the second trial, evidence
that he had claimed the same immunity on the first trial
would be probative of no fact in issue, and would be inadmissible. See Malone v. State, 91 Ark. 485, 491;
Lowenherz v. Merchants Bank, 144 Ga. 556; Bunckley v.
State, 77 Miss. 540; People v. Willett, 92 N. Y. 29; but
see People v. Prevost, supra.
Making this concession, and laying aside for the moment
any question whether the defendant, notwithstanding
his offering himself as a witness, retained some vestige of
his immunity, we do not think the questions asked of him
9542*-26----32

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

were irrelevant or incompetent. For if the cross-examination had revealed that the real reason for the defendant's failure to contradict the government's testimony on
the first trial was a lack of faith in the truth or probability of his own story, his answers would have a bearing
on his credibility and on the truth of his own testimony in
chief.
It is elementary that a witness who upon direct examination denies making statements relevant to the issue,
may be cross-examined with respect to conduct on his
part inconsistent with this denial. The value of such
testimony, as is always the case with cross-examination.
must depend upon the nature of the answers elicited; and
their weight is for the jury. But we cannot say that such
questions are improper cross-examination, although the
trial judge might appropriately instruct the jury that the
failure of the defendant to take the stand in his own behalf is not in itself to be taken as an admission of the
truth of the testimony which he did not deny.
There can be no basis, then, for excluding the testimony
objected to, unless it be on the theory that under the
peculiar circumstances of the case, the defendant's immunity should be held to survive his appearance as a witness on the second trial, to the extent at least, that he
may be permitted to preserve silence as to his conduct on
the first.
Whether there should be such a qualification of the rule
that the accused waives his privilege completely by becoming a witness, must necessarily depend upon the reasons underlying the policy of the immunity, and one's
view as to whether it should be extended. The only suggested basis for such a qualification is that the adoption
of the rule contended for by the Government might operate to bring pressure on the accused to take the stand on
the first trial, for fear of the consequences of his silence
in the event of a second trial; and might influence the
defendant to continue his silence on the second trial be-

RAFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
494

Opinion of the Court.

cause his first silence may there be made to count against
him. See People v. Prevost, supra,247; 36 Harv. L. Rev.,
207, 208.
But these refinements are without substance. We
need not close our eyes to the fact that every person
accused of crime is under some pressure to testify, lest the
jury, despite carefully framed instructions, draw an unfavorable inference from his silence. See State v. Bartlett, 55 Me. 200, 219; State v. Cleaves, 59 Me. 298, 300.
When he does take the stand, he is under the same pressure: to testify fully, rather than avail himself of a partial immunity. And the accused at the second trial may
well doubt whether the advantage lies with partial silence
or with complete silence. Even if, on his first trial, he
were to weigh the consequences of his failure to testify
then, in the light of what might occur on a second trial,
it would require delicate balances to enable him to say
that the rule of partial immunity would make his burden
less onerous than the rule that he may remain silent, or
at his option, testify fully, explaining his previous silence.
We are unable to see that the rule that if he testifies, he
must testify fully, adds in any substantial manner to the
inescapable embarrassment which the accused must experience in determining whether he shall testify or not.
The safeguards against self-incrimination are for the
benefit of those who do not wish to become witnesses in
their own behalf and not for those who do. There is a
sound policy in requiring the accused who offers himself
as a witness to do so without reservation, as does any
other witness. We can discern nothing in the policy of
the law against self-incrimination which would require
the extension of immunity to any trial or to any tribunal
other than that in which the defendant preserves it by
refusing to testify.
The answer to the question certified is "No."

