OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

The plaintiff delivered under protest the remaining
4,000,000 pounds of hay. Thereafter the plaintiff accepted without protest the sum of $38,000, which was all
that was due under the contract. The plaintiff then filed
this claim for $22,000 with the acting Quartermaster General of the United States Army, with the Auditor for the
War Department, with the Secretary of War, with the
Comptroller of the Treasury, and with the Board of Contract Adjustment, all of whom in turn decided that the
claim could not be paid.
The appellant had the option of delivering the remainder of the hay under the terms of the contract, or of not
delivering it at all, if the contract had been broken. It
chose to deliver. It made a protest, but that was ignored
by the officers of the Government, and, when the Government tendered the contract price, it was accepted by
the appellant and without protest. Under such circumstances there is no ground for implying a contract to pay
more than the contract price. New York & New Haven
v. United States, 251 U. S. 123, 127; Nelson Company v.
United States, 261 U. S. 17, 23; Willard, Sutherland &
Company v. United States, 262 U. S. 489, 494; Atwater
& Company v. United States, 262 U. S. 495, 498.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES

EX REL.

HUGHES v. GAULT,

MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 513. Argued April 22, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.
1. The Constitution does not require any preliminary hearing before
removal of an accused person for trial to the federal court having
jurisdiction of the charge. Pp. 149, 152.

HUGHES v. GAULT.
142

Statement of the Case.

2. A commitment for removal under Rev. Stats. § 1014, ordered by
a United States Commissioner after a finding of substantial
grounds for the charge in an indictment, is not assailable in
habeas corpus because of his refusal to hear defensive evidence and
weigh it against the Government's evidence of probable cause.
P. 150.
3. An indictment plainly showing the intention of the grand jury
to charge the defendant with violating the Sherman Act, held

sufficient for removal purposes. P. 151.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court denying
a discharge in habeas corpus. The relator, Hughes, was
held for removal to the Northern District of Ohio for
trial there under an indictment charging him and fortysix other natural persons and forty-six corporations with
having engaged in a combination in restraint of interstate
commerce in malleable iron castings, in violation of § 1 of
the Sherman Law. At the hearing in the removal proceedings the relator admitted his identity and the Government rested its case on this and a certified copy of the
indictment, which alleged that the corporate defendants
produced some 75% of the malleable castings product of
the United States, and were members of a voluntary trade
association through and by means of which they carried
out an agreement to eliminate competition among themselves as to prices, terms, and conditions of sale and
customers, and that the relator and the other individual
defendants (other than one employed as the Secretary of
the association,) were officers and agents of the corporations, managing and controlling their affairs. The commissioner, after hearing testimony of two customers of
the relator's company, struck it out as purely defensive,
declined to hear more testimony of the same character,
and ordered a commitment on the indictment and on the
testimony given by relator on his direct and crossexaminations.

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

271 U. S.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Herbert
Pope and Frank E. Harkness were on the brief, for appellant.
The District Court erred in its decision as to the nature
and scope of the issue in removal proceedings, in holding
that the indictment, and proof of appellant's identity,
established the Government's right to an order of removal, and wholly disregarding the evidence showing
want of probable cause introduced before the Commissioner, and in so doing the court denied the appellant's
constitutional right to a proper hearing on the issue of
probable cause. Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20; Harlan
v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442. If the evidence on behalf of
appellant demonstrated the lack of probable cause, the
Commissioner had no power or authority to commit him,
and he was entitled as a matter of constitutional right to
his discharge in habeas corpus proceedings.
The evidence on behalf of appellant fully met the case
made by the indictment and demonstrated that there was
no probable cause to believe him guilty of any violation
of the Sherman Act. Apart from a formal charge that
all the defendants named in the indictment have violated
the Sherman Act, which follows the language of the
statute, and cannot possibly be held to state any specific
offense which would justify a prosecution, the indictment
merely states that the corporations named as defendants
have carried on their interstate trade pursuant to an
agreement to eliminate competition, have by agreement
"from time to time" fixed excessive and non-competitive
prices for malleable iron castings and quoted and sold
castings at such prices, and have "assigned and allotted
their customers to one another" and enforced such allotments by refraining from competing for such customers."
This Court has held in Weeds, Inc. v. United States, 255
U. S. 109, that the word "excessive" as applied to prices
has no proper place in a penal proceeding, and it has also

HUGHES v. GAULT.
142

Argument for Appellant.

held in Chicago Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S.
231, that the fixing of non-competitive prices does not
necessarily constitute a violation of the Sherman Act.
As to the charge that the corporate defendants allotted
and assigned customers to one another, it is to be observed
that the indictment does not even allege that this was
done by agreement and is apparently based on the view
that the Sherman Act imposes a duty to compete-a,
theory which this Court. has definitely repudiated. Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; United States v.
Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324. The appellant and the other
natural persons named in the indictment are not charged
with having authorized or done any act claimed to be
illegal, but merely with having been officers or agents of
the defendant corporations.
The only basis for the jurisdiction of the District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio to which removal is
sought, is the charge that the corporate defendants were
members of an association with headquarters at Cleveland in that district, and while it is alleged that the association was an instrumentality of the supposed combination, there is no statement of what it did in pursuance
thereof, or indeed that it did anything.
It stands out clearly upon the record that the Government abandoned the charge of price-fixing and the allotment of customers made in the indictment. It could do
nothing else in the face of appellant's uncontradicted and
unimpeached testimony. There remains nothing except
the fact that appellant's company was a member of a
trade association which maintained a bureau of information, and there is not a shred of evidence that appellant
or any one else ever made use of this bureau for any improper or unlawful purpose. We insist that upon such
evidence the Commissioner had no power or authority to
hold the appellant, that the District Court erred in refusing to discharge him from custody, and that the order
appealed from should be reversed.
9542'-26-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

271 U. S.

Rodman v. Pothier,264 U. S. 399, held merely that disputed and doubtful questions should not be decided in
removal proceedings, and counsel for the Government
fail to point to the existence of any doubtful or disputed
question in the case at bar which would bring it within
that rule.
In Charlton v. Kelly, 229 U. S. 447, there was competent legal evidence produced to show the commission of
the crime. The question arose as to the defense of insanity.
In Collins v. Loisel, 259 U. S. 309, another extradition
case, the court found that the evidence to support the
charge of obtaining property by false pretenses was adequate. The court reviewed the evidence and said that it
was clear that this evidence would justify a conviction
not only for cheating, but also of obtaining property
under false pretenses.
In Gayon v. McCarthy, 252 U. S. 171, the court reviewed the evidence at length and reached its decision in
the case, which was one of habeas corpus, only on the
ground that there was " substantial evidence" before the
Comnnissioner showing probable cause.
This Court has held, Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20,
and cases following, that, while the indictment, if it is a
valid and sufficient one on its face, may be regarded as
enough to put the defendant to his proof, the defendant
has a constitutional right to show the absence of probable
cause. Of course, this constitutional right is a substantial one. It is not a matter of form. But of what consequence is the right, if the defendant's evidence destroys
the basis for a finding of probable cause and his evidence
is ignored?
This Court has held in habeas corpus cases that the indictment is not conclusive, and that it is a denial of a constitutional right to regard it as conclusive. But to receive evidence which leaves no basis for a finding of prob-

HUGHES v. GAULT.^
142

Argument for Appellee.

able cause and then to sustain the removal is to make the
indictment conclusive. We submit that this is what the
court below did.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donoan,with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Clifford H. Byrnes,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for appellee.
In a removal proceeding in the federal courts the
committing magistrate must determine three questions:
(1) Whether an offense appears to have been committed;
(2) whether it appears to have been committed in the
judicial district to which the removal is sought; and
(3) whether there is any evidence tending to show that
it was committed by the accused.
The production of a certified copy of the indictment
which states an offense and alleges jurisdiction in the
court in which it was found, together with proof of
identity, furnishes prima fade but not conclusive evidence of all of these three elements.
The court before which removal proceedings are pending, or the court reviewing its action on habeas corpus,
should not attempt to pass on the technical sufficiency
of the indictment as a criminal pleading, but should consider whether it, as evidence, tends satisfactorily to show
the commission of an offense, and jurisdiction in the
court where it was found, to try the accused for such
offense. In the case at bar such questions as are raised
as to the sufficiency of the indictment are of a character
which should be left to be resolved by the trial court,
and not decided on removal proceedings. As the court in
which this indictment was found had previously passed
on and sustained the indictment, its decision was properly recognized as controlling in the removal proceedings.
The indictment in this case is sufficient, in any event,
to meet every test which can be applied. It has been sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

tamned in numerous cases. United States v. Nat. Malleable & Steel Castings Co., 6 Fed. (2d) 40; Fitzgeraldv.
United States, 6 Fed. (2d) 156, certiorari denied 269 U. S.
570; McGrath v. Mathues, 6 Fed. (2d) 149; United
States v. Moore, 2 Fed. (2d) 734; Steeves v. Rodman, 10
Fed. (2d) 212; Meehan v. United States, 11 Fed. (2d) 847.
Other cases presenting different phases of removal proceedings upon the same indictment are: Nourse v. White,
11 Fed. (2d) 843; Rutz v. Anderson, 11 Fed. (2d) 845;
Rutz v. Levy, 268 U. S. 390.
The accused has a constitutional right to rebut the
evidence against him. The scope of such rebuttal evidence is largely in the discretion of the committing magistrate. In the case at bar there was no abuse of such
discretion. The court in the habeas corpus proceedings
had before it the same evidence which was before the
Commissioner, and seems to have concluded upon such
evidence that probable cause existed. But whatever
reason it had for discharging the writ, the order should
be affirmed, since the record shows that if the evidence
as well as the indictment be considered, the action of the
Commissioner was correct.
MR.

JusTicE

HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the

Court.

The relator was indicted for violation of the Anti-trust
Act of July 2, 1890, (c. 647,) in the Eastern Division of
the Northern District of Ohio. He appeared, upon
notice, before a Commissioner of Ottumwa, Iowa, and
after a hearing he was ordered to be held for removal.
Rev. Stat. § 1014. The relator thereupon applied to the
judges of the District Court for a writ of habeas corpus
on the grounds that the indictment was bad and that the
Commissioner rejected evidence that the relator was innocent and that therefore there was no probable cause to

HUGHES v. GAULT.
142

Opinion of the Court.

believe him guilty of a crime in Ohio. He also prayed for
a writ of certiorari to bring the proceedings below before
the Court. The writs were issued and after a hearing the
District Court denied the relator his discharge and directed an order of removal to be prepared. The relator
appeals under § 238 of the Judicial Code, March 3, 1911,
c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1157, before the Act of February 13,
1925, c. 229, went into effect. The grounds alleged are
that, by the refusal to hold that the indictment did not
show probable cause to believe the relator guilty, and by
the exclusion of the evidence, the relator was deprived of
his right to be tried in the District wherein the crime was
committed, Constitution, Art. 3, § 2, and Amendment VI,
and that he was detained without due process of law.
Amendment V.
The Constitution does not require any preliminary
hearing before a person charged with a crime against the
United States is brought into the Court having jurisdiction of the charge. There he may deny the jurisdiction of
the Court as he may deny his guilt, and the Constitution
is satisfied by his right to contest it there. With immaterial exceptions any one in the United States is subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States and may be required to stand trial wherever he is alleged to have committed the crime. In Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20, 33,
the conclusion is not that the appellant by being denied
the right to present any evidence was deprived of his
rights under the Constitution, but that he was denied
'a right secured by statute under the Constitution.'
As that instrument does not provide for bringing the
accused into the power of the Court authorized to try
him, a statute was necessary and is found in Rev. Stat.
§ 1014. This might have been interpreted as contemplating a summary order without other hearing than was
necessary, when there was an indictment, to show that
fact and that the person present was the person charged.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

The hardship of removal, however, has grown with the
growth of the United States, and there is a natural desire
to prevent it when possible, if a preliminary sifting will
show that there is no probable cause for the charge.
Accordingly it is held that the District Judge on application to remove acts judicially and that probable cause
must be shown. Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S. 73, 83.
Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20, 27, 29, 32. It is to be
noticed, however, that "where any offender . . . is
committed in any district other than that where the
offense is to be tried, it shall be the duty of the judge
of the district where such offender . . . is imprisoned, seasonably to issue, and of the marshal to
execute, a warrant for his removal," &c. But the commitment, supposed by these words already to have taken
place, is entrusted not only to judges and commissioners of the United States, and judges of state courts,
but to any 'mayor of a city, justice of the peace, or other
magistrate, of any State where he may be found.' Obviously, in order to make it the duty of the judge to issue
the warrant a mayor or a magistrate not a lawyer cannot be expected to do more than to decide in a summary
way that the indictment is intended to charge an offense
against the laws of the United States, that the person before him is the person charged and that there is probable
cause to believe him guilty, without the magistrate's
being held to more than avoiding palpable injustice.
He is not intended to hold a preliminary trial, and, if
probable cause is shown on the government side, he is not
to set it aside because on the other evidence he believes
the defendant innocent. The rule that would apply to
a mayor applies to a commissioner of the United States.
The relator testified before the Commissioner both in
general terms and in detail that he and his company were
innocent. The Commissioner excluded further details
from him confirmatory of what he had sworn and evi-

HUGHES v. GAULT.
142

Opinion of the Court.

dence of customers that they were acquired in the way
of competitive trade, seemingly on the ground that they
would not, or at least might not, know that they were
held as customers because of an agreement among the
defendants, and also on the ground that he was not
called on to listen to merely defensive proof; an opinion
that he expressed. On a summary proceeding like this,
even if the exclusion was wrong, it would not be enough
to invalidate the order of removal, as the Commissioner
indicated by his finding that he thought there were substantial grounds for the charge of guilt and that it was
not for him to decide whether they were met by the
denials of the defendant, even if they seemed convincing.
Collins v. Loisel, 259 U. S. 309, 314, 315.
We do not regard the attack upon the indictment as
needing discussion. It has been upheld by a number of
District Courts and by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit as sufficient for removal purposes. It
alleges that the Iowa Malleable Iron Company under the
charge of the relator was party to an agreement to eliminate competition in interstate trade and to fix excessive
and noncompetitive prices, and that the company and the
relator are engaged in a conspiracy in restraint of trade
among the States. The relator is not left in doubt of the
effort of the grand jury to present him as criminal under
the Sherman Act.
It is pointed out in Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S. 73,
83, that there are much stronger reasons for caution in
surrendering an alleged criminal to a foreign nation than
are required before removing a citizen from one place
to another within the jurisdiction, yet in the latest case
on extradition it is said that 'habeas corpus is available
only to inquire whether the magistrate had jurisdiction,
whether the offence charged is within the treaty and,
by a somewhat liberal extension, whether there was any

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

271 U. S.

evidence warranting the finding that there was reasonable ground to believe the accused guilty.' Fernandez v.
Phillips, 268 U. S. 311, 312. So far as the attack upon
the order of removal is by habeas corpus this would seem
to apply. Price v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 488, 492.
But to recur to what we intimated at the beginning, the
requirements of the statute, be they greater or less, are
not requirements of the Constitution but only in aid of
the Constitution, made, in rather a remote sense, 'in
order that any one accused shall not be deprived of this
constitutional right' to be tried in the District wherein
the crime shall have been committed. 205 U. S. 32. A
statement in Harlanv. McGourin,218 U. S. 442, 447, that
Tinsley v. Treat held the exclusion of evidence to be a
denial of a right secured under the Federal Constitution
is inaccurate as we have shown. The relator's contention
that he has been deprived of constitutional rights fails.
It follows that the order of the District Court must be
affirmed.
Order affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

concurs in the result.

MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS is of the opinion that, by refus-

ing to hear and to consider evidence introduced or offered
which bore upon the existence of probable cause, the
Commissioner did not merely commit error, but deprived
the petitioner of his liberty without due process of law
in violation of the Fifth Amendment, because he was
denied a fair hearing. Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20,
28, 30. Compare Chin Yow v. United States, 208 U. S.
8; Kwock Jan Fat v. White, 253 U. S. 454; United States
v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the decision of
this case.

