OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

536

Syllabus.

271 U. S.

the cause with directions to dismiss the petition without
costs to either party. Public Utility Commissioners v.
Compania General De Tabacos De Flipinas, 249 U. S.
425; Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261 U. S. 216, and cases

cited.
Judgment vacated with directions to dismiss petition without costs to either party.

GOLTRA v. WEEKS, SECRETARY OF WAR,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 718. Argued April 27, 28, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. A suit by one who had obtained lawful possession of a fleet of
boats belonging to the United States, under a lease or charter for
a term of years executed by the Chief of Engineers by direction
of the Secretary of War, to enjoin the latter official and an army
officer from wrongfully and forcibly taking possession of the boats
in pursuance of an alleged conspiracy between them, and to require
the defendants to restore some of the boats already so taken, is not
a suit against the United States, and the United States is not a
necessary party. PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, followed. Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335, distinguished. P. 544.
2. A stipulation in a lease authorizing the lessor to terminate the
lease and retake the property if, in his judgment, the lessee is not
complying with his obligations under the contract, is valid, and, in
the absence of bad faith, the lessor's judgment on the question of
compliance is conclusive. P. 547.
3. In a suit by a lessee to enjoin threatened retaking of leased property, where it appeared, on motion for a preliminary injunction,
that the defendant had actually taken the property from the
plaintiff's possession, but also, upon a full showing, that he had a
clear right to retake it under the lease, held that plaintiff was not
entitled to a temporary injunction restoring the possession pendente
lite, even though the retaking had been accomplished through a
wrongful show of force and was timed to avoid an injunction.
P. 548.
7 Fed. (2d) 838, affirmed.

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
536

Argument for Petitioner.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of temporary injunction rendered
by the District Court, in a suit by Goltra to enjoin the
Secretary of War and an army officer from seizing from
his possession certain boats and barges, which had been
leased to him by the Chief of Engineers, acting for the
United States by direction of the Secretary. The bill
also prayed restoration of part of the boats, already
taken; and the remainder were taken before the hearing.
The decree commanded restoration of plaintiff's possession and enjoined further interference during the suit.
See also Ex parte'United States, 263 U. S. 389.

Mr. Joseph T. Davis, with whom Mr. Douglas TV.
Robert was on the brief, for petitioner.
The District Court, as a court of equity, had jurisdiction and authority to restrain the respondents, even
though they were officers of the United States, from interference with property of the petitioner in an arbitrary,
unwarranted and illegal manner; and such relief cannot
be defeated upon the ground that the suit is one against
the United States. Colorado v. Toll, 268 U. S. 228;
Osborn v. The Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Noble v. Union River
R. R. Co., 147 U. S. 165; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson,
223 U. S. 605; Lane v. Watts, 234 U. S. 525; Payne v.
Central Pac. Ry. Co., 255 U. S. 228; School of Magnetic
Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94.
Where the Government has entered into a coimnercial
enterprise for profit, it cannot retain its irmnunity from
suit as a sovereign in a governimental capacity. Bank of
United States v. Planter'sBank, 9. Wheat. 904; Bank of
Kentucky v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318; Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257; Louisville R. R. v. Letson, 2 How.
302; South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 43; § 201
(e), Transportation Act, 1920.
The contract of lease and option to purchase is not a
contract with the Government of the United States in

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

its sovereign capacity. The District Court had discretionary jurisdiction to grant the temporary injunction,
and with this discretion the Court of Appeals should not
have interfered. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. v. United
States, 124 Fed. 146; Stearns Rogers Mfg. Co. v. Brown,
114 Fed. 939.
The decision of the court below deprives the petitioner
of his property without due process of law. Clause eight
of the contract is not a forfeiture provision granting to
the Secretary of War, who is not designated therein, the
power to terminate the contract, at his discretion, in an
unwarranted and arbitrary manner, and thereby seize the
property of the petitioner. Shipping Board Cases, 258
U. S.549; 6 R. C. L. 906, § 291; 3 Story, Eq. Juris; ch.
XXXVII, 14th ed., 1918, § 1728; Phil. W. & B. R. Co. v.
Howard, 13 How. 307; Hartman v. C. B. & Q. R. R. Co.,
192 Mo. App. 271; United States v. U. S. EngineeringCo.,
234 U. S. 236; Dist. of Columbia v. Camden Iron. Wks.
181 U. S. 455; Cheney v. Libby, 134 U. S. 69; United
States v. Peck, 102 U. S. 64; United States Harness Co. v.
Graham, 288 Fed. 929.
Mr. Lon. 0. Hocker, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant
Attorney General Letts, and Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the briefs,
for respondents.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

prepared the opinion of the

Court.*
This was a suit in equity brought in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, and
reaches here from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
* MR. JUSTICE

being absent.

HOLMIES announced the opinion, the CHIEF JUSTICE

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
536

Opinion of the Court.

Eighth Circuit by certiorari. The general purpose of the
bill filed by Edward F. Goltra, petitioner here, was to
enjoin the seizure of a fleet of towboats and barges on the
Mississippi River which had been held by him as lessee.
It charged that the Secretary of War, the Chief of Engineers, and Colonel T. Q. Ashburn, Chief, Inland and
Coastwise Waterways Service, were engaged in a conspiracy unlawfully to deprive him of the boats. He
sought to enjoin the threatened seizure of them and to
have those of them which had already been taken restored
to his possession.
The lease to Goltra was made May 28, 1919, by General
Black, Chief of Engineers, as the lessor, by direction of
the Secretary of War, acting for the United States. It
leased nineteen barges nearing completion, and three or
four towboats not yet constructed, for a term of five years
from the date the first towboat or barge was delivered to
the lessee. The lessee covenanted to operate as a common carrier the whole fleet, on the Mississippi River and
its tributaries, for the period of the lease and of any
renewals thereof, transporting iron ore, coal and other
commodities at rates not in excess of the prevailing rail
tariffs, and at not less than the prevailing rail tariffs without the consent of the Secretary of War. The lessee was
to pay all operating expenses of the fleet, and to maintain
during the term each towboat and barge of the fleet in
good operating condition to the satisfaction of the lessor.
The salvage earned by any of the fleet was to be for the
benefit of the United States, after deducting expenses.
The net earnings above operating expenses and maintenance for each ton of cargo were to be turned over by the
lessee to the Secretary of War every ninety days, for deposit to his credit in the Treasury, until the net earnings
equalled the full amount of the cost of the several vessels,
plus interest on the cost of 4 per cent. per annum; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

then for deposit in St. Louis banks, to be held for the fulfillment of the terms of the lease. The lessee was to
keep accurate detailed accounts of all tonnage moved and
all moneys received and his operating expenses, subject to
the inspection of the lessor or his representatives, and the
overhead expenses were to be subject to the approval of
the lessor, and any items objected to were to be referred
to the Secretary of War, whose decision was to be final.
Within three months prior to the expiration of the lease,
or of any period of renewal, or sooner if so desired by the
lessee, a board was to appraise the value of the fleet and
the lessee was given the option of purchasing the fleet by
the fund from the net earnings and by fifteen promissory
notes running for fifteen years, the title of the property to
remain in the United States until the payment of the
whole of the purchase price of the property.
Section 8 of the lease, the important provision in this
case, reads as follows:
"The lessor reserves the right to inspect the plant, fleet,
and work at any time to see that all the said terms and
conditions of this lease are fulfilled, and that the crews
and other employees are promptly paid, monthly or oftener; and non-compliance, in his judgment, with any of
the terms or conditions will justify his terminating the
lease and returning the plant and said barges and towboats to the lessor, and all moneys in the Treasury or in
bank to the credit of the Secretary of War shall be deemed
rentals earned by and due to the lessor for the use of said
vessels."
There was a supplemental agreement in 1921, approved
by the Secretary of War, made by Lansing H. Beach, the
Chief of Engineers, who had then succeeded Chief of Engineers Black. This made provision for the construction of
additional facilities for the use of the fleet and brought
them within the terms of the original contract.
The bill set out that there was delay in the construction and delivery of the fleet, and that both parties after

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
SO;

Opinion of the Court.

the war found difficulty in performing their undertakings; that, after the making of the lease, the plaintiff had
secured a good many contracts for the shipment of commodities of different kinds--of oil from New Orleans to
Illinois. coal from Kentucky to St. Louis, manganese
from New Orleans to St. Louis; that the rate which he
arranged for was 80 per cent. of the prevailing rail rate;
that, when he applied to the Secretary of War, he could
not obtain permission to transport some of his commodities at a proper rate; that conditions were imposed requiring the consent of officers in charge of the Mississippi
Warrior, another enterprise of the Government, to Goltra's rate, and that by reason thereof it was impossible
for him to operate as a common carrier; that by the acts
of the Secretary of War the plaintiff was wrongfully prevented by the lessor from carrying out the terms and conditions of the contract; that John W. Weeks and T. Q.
Ashburn, named as defendants, acting in combination,
wrongfully undertook to declare the contracts terminated, and, on March 3, 1923, demanded from the plaintiii ,.. mmediate posession of the boats without warrant of law, and wrongfully and unlawfully threatened
to take them by force, caused some of the towboats and
barges to be actually seized, and were threatening to take
them all, and that unless restrained would do so; that the
plaintiff had no adequate remedy at law for the redress
of the wrongs complained of. He therefore asked a temporary restraining order to be granted immediately, and
a restoration of the fleet to him, and a rule on the defendants to show cause why a temporary injunction
should not issue. A rule to show cause was issued, March
25, 1923, on defendant.
It appeared that the whole fleet had been taken over
by Colonel Ashburn under an order of the Secretary of
War. The taking over was on Sunday, and there was a
purpose on the part of Colonel Ashburn, anticipating an

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

2711. S.

injunction, to remove such of the fleet as were in St.
Louis, across the river, to be out of the jurisdiction of the
Missouri District Court. All of the defendants filed returns to the rule setting out defenses. A hearing was had
on the motion for a temporary injunction, evidence was
taken, and the District Court found that the fleet had
been improperly seized and should be restored to the
plaintiffs, and the defendants be enjoined from any attempt to resume possession until a final hearing of the
case.
The defendants then sought a writ of prohibition out
of this Court to prevent the further consideration of the
cause by the District Court. Ex parte United States,
263 U. S. 389. The leave to file a petition for prohibition
was denied, on the ground that the remedy by appeal
from the District Court was adequate.
The evidence shows that, in March, 1921, Goltra applied to have his rates as a common carrier fixed at 80
per cent. of the prevailing rail rates, and he was allowed
from that time on until March, 1922, to make those rates.
In March, 1922, the Secretary of War notified hi-- __,at
he could not approve any operation on the lower Mississippi entering into competition with the Government
Mississippi Warrior line, and that he could not approve
an 80 per cent. rate there. In April, 1922, Goltra objected to the limitation, saying that he had obligated himself to transport coal from Kentucky and manganese and
oil from New Orleans at this rate. Thereupon the Secretary of War advised him that the rate on the lower Mississippi must be raised from 80 per cent. to 100 per cent.
of the rail tariffs, for the future, thus allowing him to
complete the contracts of transportation already entered
into, of which he had written. By letter of May 25, 1922,
he was allowed a rate not less than 80 per cent. of the
rail rates for many different commodities. The Secretary
assured him that, if he decided to operate his boats on

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
536

Opinion of the Court.

the upper Mississippi, he was authorized to carry all commodities at not less than 80 per cent., and that the officers
of the Warrior Service had been instructed to co6perate
with him to the fullest extent in making his fleet a
success.
After a year, on March 13, 1923, the Secretary of War,
in view of the little use he had made of the fleet, sent the
following notice to Goltra:
"Pursuant to the right reserved in paragraph eight of
the contract dated May 28, 1919, and the supplement
thereto dated May 26, 1921, between you and the United
States, for the operation as a common carrier of a fleet
of four towboats and nineteen barges, and the erection of
unloading facilities, you are hereby notified that in my
judgment you have not complied with the terms and conditions of said contract in that you have failed to operate
the said towboats and barges as a common carrier and in
other particulars.
"I therefore declare the said contract and the supplement thereto terminated. You are hereby directed upon
the receipt of this notice immediately to deliver possession of the said towboats and barges, and any unloading
facilities erected pursuant to the supplemental contract
and paid for by funds of the United States, to Colonel
T. Q. Ashburn, Chief Inland and Coastwise Waterways
Service, who will deliver this notice, and who is instructed
and authorized to receive and receipt for the property
herein mentioned."
April 27, 1923, the Chief of Engineers sent a similar
letter to Goltra. Goltra acknowledged receipt of the Secretary's letter, but protested against the action.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the action of the
District Court in restoring the fleet to Goltra and enjoining the defendants, and held that the motion to dismiss
and to quash the temporary restraining order should have
been granted, on the ground that the United States was
a necessary party and could not be sued in such an action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

We can not agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals
that the United States was a necessary party to the bill.
The bill was suitably framed to secure the relief from an
alleged conspiracy of the defendants without lawful right
to take away from the plaintiff the boats of which by lease
or charter he alleged that he had acquired the lawful possession and enjoyment for a term of five years. He was
seeking equitable aid to avoid a threatened trespass upon
that property by persons who were government officers.
If it was a trespass, then the officers of the Government
should be restrained whether they professed to be acting
for the Government or not. Neither they nor the Govermnent which they represent could trespass upon the
property of another, and it is well settled that they may
be stayed in their unlawful proceeding by a court of competent jurisdiction, even though the United States for
whom they may profess to act is not a party and can not
be made one. By reason of their illegality, their acts or
threatened acts are personal and derive no official justification from their doing them in asserted agency for the
Government. The point is fully covered by Philadelphia
Company v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605. In that case, the
complainant owned an island in the Ohio River around
which the duly authorized officers of Pennsylvania had
located a harbor line which by statute was declared to be
forever firm and stable. The Secretary of War changed
the harbor lines in such a way as to cross the complainant's land within the state harbor line which had never
been, as complainant alleged, part of the navigable waters
of the United States. The bill averred that the Secretary
of War proposed to institute criminal prosecutions with
heavy penalties against complainant for his proposed erection of buildings on his own land. It was objected on demurrer that this was a suit against the United States and
must be dismissed for lack of its presence as a party.
This Court declined to yield to the contention as a ground

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
536

Opinion of the Court.

for dismissing the bill. The ruling is so comprehensive
and refers to so many authorities and is so apt that we
quote the language at pages 619 and 620:
"If the conduct of the defendant constitutes an unwarrantable interference with property of the complainant, its resort to equity for protection is not to be defeated upon the ground that the suit is one against the
United States. The exemption of the United States from
suit does not protect its officers from personal liability to
persons whose rights of property they have wrongfully
invaded. Little v. Barreine,2 Cranch, 170; United States
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 220, 221; Belknap v. Schild, 161
U. S. 10, 18; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204; Scrantonv.
Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 152. And in case of an injury
threatened by his illegal action, the officer can not claim
immunity from injunction process. The principle has
been frequently applied with respect to state officers seeking to enforce unconstitutional enactments. Osborn v.
Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 843, 868; Davis v.
Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S.
1, 10; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 112; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S.466; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.123, 159,
160; Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph Company, 216
U. S.146; Herndon v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135,
155; Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S.636, 643-645.
And it is equally applicable to a federal officer acting in
excess of his authority or under an authority not validly
conferred. Noble v. Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147
U. S.165, 171, 172; School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94.
"The complainant did not ask the court to interfere
with the official discretion of the Secretary of War, but
challenged his authority to do the things of which complaint was made. The suit rests upon the charge of
abuse of power, and its merits must be determined accordingly; it is not a suit against the United States."
c.542°-----.35

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

It is sought to avoid the application of this to the present
case by reference to the later case of Wells v. Roper, 246
U. S. 335. We think it clearly distinguishable. Wells
had a contract with the Postmaster General acting for
the United States, by which Roper agreed for four years
to furnish, for use in collecting and delivering the mail,
automobiles and chauffeurs at a stipulated compensation.
One provision of the contract was that any or all of the
equipments contracted for might be discontinued at any
time upon ninety days' notice by the Postmaster General.
Later, Congress authorized that official in his discretion to
use an appropriation to buy and maintain automobiles for
operating an experimental combined screen wagon and
city collection and delivery service, and, in order to do
this, he deemed it necessary to discontinue the service of
the plaintiff, and gave the latter seasonable notice of the
cancellation of the contract. The suit was a bill in equity
to enjoin the Postmaster General from annulling the contract and interfering between the United States and the
plaintiff in the performance and execution of the contract.
The bill was dismissed on the ground that, it was a suit
against the United States. That which the bill sought to
restrain was not a trespass upon the property of the plaintiff. The automobiles of the plaintiff were not to be
taken away from him by the government officer. What
the officer was doing was merely exercising the authority
entrusted to him by law for the benefit of the Government in annulling a contract which involved no change
of possession or title to property. To enjoin the officer's
action was in effect enforcement by specific performance
of a contract against the United States. It was an affirmative remedy sought against the Government which,
though in form merely restrictive of an officer, was really
mandatory against the sovereign. The difference between an injunction against the illegal seizure of property
lawfully possessed and against the cancellation of a contract which involved no change of possession is manifest.

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
536

Opinion of the Court.

As the United States was not a necessary party to the
bill, the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals, in dismissing the bill and quashing the injunction for lack of
its presence as such, can not be sustained.
Coming now to the merits, however, we think that the
District Court erred in granting the temporary injunction, because, on the facts disclosed, the lease was finally
terminated by the decision of the Secretary of War and
the Chief of Engineers, communicated to Goltra under
§ 8 of the contract. It is very clear that, under that section, Goltra agreed that the lease should be terminated
and that the plant and barges should be returned to the
lessor, if the lessor decided that in his judgment there
had been noncompliance with the terms and conditions
of the lease. It appears from the evidence that during
the season from July 15, 1922, when Goltra got the boats,
they were not in use but were tied up except for the
transportation of two comparatively small cargoes. The
bill itself admits that Goltra did not fulfill his covenant
to operate as a common carrier. He says he was prevented from doing so by the Secretary's refusal to give
him the rates he wished. The contract expressly forbade rates exceeding the prevailing rail rates and forbade
rates less than the rail rates except by consent of the
Secretary.
The stipulation that the lessor, the Chief of Engineers,
could terminate the lease if in his judgment Goltra. was
not complying with the obligations of the contract, did
not require for its exercise that the Chief of Engineers,
or the Secretary, should hold a court and have a hearing
to determine the question of compliance. Goltra was
given a notice, March 4th, of the termination. He answered, March 8th, but he tendered no facts upon which
either the Secretary or the Chief of Engineers could base
any different conclusion from that already reached from
the failure of Goltra to fulfill his obligations. Both the

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U, S.

Secretary and the Chief of Engineers were fully advised
of what Goltra did and did not do under the contract.
The cases leave no doubt that such a provision for termination of a contract is valid, unless there is an absence
of good faith in the exercise of the judgment. Here,
nothing of the kind is shown. Such a stipulation may be
a harsh one or an unwise one, but it is valid and binding
if entered into. It is often illustrated in govermnent
contracts in which the determination of a vital issue under 'the contract is left to the decision of a government
officer. Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S. 398; Sweeny
v. United States, 109 U. S. 618; United States v. Gleason,
175 U. S. 588; United States v. Mason & Hanger Co., 260
U. S. 323; United States v. Henley, 182 Fed. 776; Martinsburg R. R. Co. v. March, 114 U. S. 549.
Nor does the circumstance that, as in this case, the
lessor whose judgment is to prevail is a party to the contract alter the legal result. Of course the Chief Engineer
is not the real party in interest. He is a professional
expert, as such was designated as lessor, and is really acting only as an agent for the Government. But even if
this were a stipulation between private individuals, judgment of one of the parties on such an issue-would be,
in the absence of bad faith, conclusive. There are many
cases where the contract makes the satisfaction of one
of the parties in respect of compliance the condition
precedent to fulfillment, and good faith is all that is required to justify rejection of work or product tendered.
Some of them present a convincing analogy to the case.
In Magee v. Scott &c. Lumber Co., 78 Minn. 11, the defendant made a contract with a Duluth tug owner to tow
7,000,000 feet of saw logs to its mill at Duluth from the
north shore of Lake Superior. The contract contained a
provision that, in case the services should not be satisfactory, the defendant reserved the privilege of terminating the contract at any time. The defendant terminated

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
536

Opinion of the Court.

the contract, because of plaintiff's delay. The evidence
being clear that the decision was honest, the court directed
a verdict and the action was sustained by the Supreme
Court.
Much has been said on behalf of the Government with
reference to the special power of a government officer to
act in such a case, and without judicial assistance forcibly
to repossess himself of government property, which we
might find it difficult to agree with but which it is unnecessary for us to consider. Our conclusion is based on the
law as it is administered between private persons. Colonel Ashburn took possession without notification to Goltra
other than that which had been communicated to him by
the Secretary of War terminating the contract, and it is
clear from the evidence that Colonel Ashburn was anxious
to take possession of the property before a writ of injunction could be sued out by Goltra, and that he sought to
take the fleet out of the jurisdiction of the court where
he feared the injunction. He was not directed to make
the seizure by the Secretary of War against the opposition
of Goltra, but in such case he was directed to resort to
legal proceedings. He stands upon the statement that he
took possession without violence and therefore was rightly
in possession when the order of the court was served. He
took possession, whether he took it violently or not. Concede that he did it with a show of force which was coercive.
Concede that it was a seizure without process, and wrong.
But even so, an injunction looks only to the future. At
the hearing it was made plain that Goltra, was not entitled
to the possession, and the court-one of equity-would
not go through the idle form of restoring the property to
Goltra by way of correcting the Colonel's wrong, and then
requiring a redelivery to the lessor.
As it is, the court has taken over the fleet and given it
to Goltra, under bond, and the only issue that remains is
whether the injunction and the restoration should be

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

271 U. S.

maintained or the injunction be dissolved and the fleet
returned to the lessor.
On an appeal from a temporary injunction it often happens that, where there is a balance of convenience and
doubt as to the issue, the status quo under the restraining
order and the restoration should be maintained until a
final hearing; but in this case, in the court hearing it, the
issue was fully treated as if on final hearing. The right
of the lessor to take over the fleet under § 8 of the contract, unless there was fraud in the judgment of termination by the Chief of Engineers, the lessor, of which we
have found no evidence, is clear. We think, therefore,
the injunction should be dissolved and the fleet restored
to the lessor.
The claim that the petitioner has been deprived of his
property without due process of law has no substance as
a reason for sustaining the temporary injunction appealed
from. He has had, and is having, due process in this very
proceeding, and, on that issue, the decision must go against
him whether the taking possession of the boats by Colonel
Ashburn was warranted or not.
If Colonel Ashburn committed a breach of the peace or
illegally injured any person in his taking possession, he is
responsible to proper authority and to the person injured;
but that does not affect the rights of the lessor under this
lease or the vindication of them in this review.
The reversal of the injunction of the District Court by
the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed, and the cause is
remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Affirmed.
The separate opinion of MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

Theoretically, everybody in this land is subject to the
law. But of what value is the theory if performances
like those revealed by this record go unrebuked?

GOLTRA v. WEEKS.
536

McRE'xoms, J., dissenting.

An army officer, having inflated himself into judge and
executioner, decided that a fleet of towboats and barges
lying in the Mississippi River at St. Louis ought no longer
to remain in the custody of a private citizen who held possession of them under a solenm lease and contract of sale
from the United States and who, in order to make them
operative, had expended upon them forty thousand dollars
of his own money. Then, waiting until a Sunday arrived, he proceeded to grab the vessels by force and
endeavored to run them beyond the jurisdiction of the
court.
Action like that is familiar under autocracies, but the
prevalent idea has been that we live under a better
system.
The trial court, after taking an ample indemnifying
bond, issued a temporary injunction requiring that possession of the vessels be restored and remain as before the
seizure until the rights of all parties could be properly
considered and determined. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this interlocutory order, and from its
decree the cause came here by certiorari.
As a fitting climax to the high-handed measures pursued by the officer, special counsel for the United States
appeared at our bar and gravely announced-" Where
the executive power has pronounced its finding or judgment within its proper sphere of action, a judicial judgment is not necessary to the enforcement of the executive
one, for the reason that all the compulsive power of the
government is in the executive department and may be
exercised by it in execution of its own processes and judgment, just as it is exercised by it in the execution of
judicial process and judgment."
It is easy enough for us to smile at such stuff, but,
unfortunately, the evil effects are not dissipated by gentle
gestures. There should be condemnation forceful enough
to prevent repetition so long as men have eyes to read.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

In the Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Sanborn presented a well-considered dissenting opinion and pointed
out that the only judicable question before that court was
whether or not the order for the injunction and the record
disclosed an unlawful, improvident or abusive use of the
sound discretion which the trial judge was required to
exercise. 7 Fed. (2d) 838, 851; and see Ex parte United
States, 263 U. S. 389. He could find no such abuse, and
neither can I. The trial court did no more than the circumstances permitted. We should approve its action
with commendation of the impelling courage and good
sense.

MORSE DRYDOCK & REPAIR COMPANY v.

STEAMSHIP NORTHERN STAR, ETC.,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 326.

Argued May 6, 7, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. Subsection R of § 30 of the Ship Mortgage Act of June 5, 1920,
providing that nothing therein shall be construed to confer a lien
for repairs when the furnisher by exercise of reasonable diligence
could have ascertained that because of the terms of a charter party,
agreement for sale of the vessel, or for any other reason, the person
ordering the repairs was without authority to bind the vessel
therefor, does not attempt to forbid a lien for repairs simply
because the owner has stipulated with a mortgagee not to give any
paramount security on the ship; the most that such a stipulation
can do is to postpone the claim of the party chargeable with notice
of it to that of the mortgagee. P. 553.
2. Under the Ship M'1ortgage Act of June 5, 1920, a maritime lien
for repairs ordered by the owner takes precedence over a mortgage
of the ship which was executed, and recorded in the office of the
Collector, before the repairs were made, and a certified copy of
which was kept with the ship's papers since before that time, but
which was not endorsed upon the ship's papers by the Collector,

