MOTTRAM v. UNITED STATES.
9

Opinion of the Court.

opinion that, in respect of the matter under consideration, the Texas inheritance tax law cannot be distinguished from the New York transfer tax law; and that
under Keith v. Johnson, decided this day, ante, p. 1, the
executors are entitled to have the inheritance tax paid in
1919 deducted fron the income of the estate received
in that year.
Judgment reversed
MOTTRAM v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 142. Argued January 15, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
Where a lot of goods, among surplus military supplies auctioned by
the United States, was grossly overstated as to quantity in the
list of things advertised for sale, and the auctioneer, in ignorance
of the mistake, accepted a bid for the listed quantity, but informed
the bidder that he could not guarantee it, and the sales, according
to the catalogue, were subject to errors of description and without
warranty, and the bidder had previously inspected the goods and
could have ascertained their true amount, held that he had no
cause of action against the United States for failure to deliver the
quantity bid for.
59 Ct. Cls. 302, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's petition.
Mr. Jennings C. Wise, with whom M1lessrs. John S.
Wise, Jr., and A. Warner Parker were on the brief, for
appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant Attorney General G'alloway were on the brief for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiff filed his petition claiming £44,773, 16s., 3d.
damages because of failure of the United States to de-

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

liver him certain steam packing for which he bid at an
auction sale of surplus war materials held at Slough, England. The Court of Claims made findings of fact and
gave judgment for the United States dismissing the
petition.
By an Act of Congress approved May 10, 1918, c. 70,
40 Stat. 548, the President was authorized to sell property
acquired in connection with the prosecution of the War.
Pursuant to that Act, an agreement was made by an army
contracting officer, acting for the United States, with J.
G. White & Company, Limited, of London, by which the
latter agreed to sell at auction engineers' stores and equipment enumerated and described in an inventory compiled by such officer. The selling agents agreed to employ the auctioneer and other persons required to prepare
and distribute catalogues and to conduct the sale. They
employed an auctioneer to sell the stores and equipment
at the United States Engineers' Depot at Slough, and
advertised an auction sale to be held at that place on
June 24, 1919, and days following. They issued a catalogue purporting to contain a list giving descriptions and
quantities of the things to be sold. It showed that the
United States was vendor, and specified that, "The whole
shall be sold, with all faults, imperfections, errors of description, in the lots of the catalogue . . . and
without any warranty whatever, the buyers being held to
have satisfied themselves as to the condition, quality, and
description of the lots before bidding . . ." There
were listed twenty-two lots of steam packing, and eleven
of these were described as Garlock packing. Due to an
error in transcribing a list furnished by the officer in
command at the depot, the quantity of each lot of Garlock packing was expressed in hundred-weights instead
of pounds; and so indicated one hundred times the quantities intended. Plaintiff received notice of the sale
through the press and from the catalogue which was fur-

MOTTRAM v. UNITED STATES.
15

Opinion of the Court.

nished to him at his request by the auctioneer. He made
many visits to the depot before the sale, and had full
opportunity to ascertain the character and quantities of
the property to be sold. At his request the Garlock packing was shown to him by one of the employees at the
depot on the day before the sale. It was all housed
together, and he had full opportunity to determine its
quantity. He then had the catalogue which listed 278,432
pounds for sale. It would have required 560 cases to
hold that amount and 15,000 cubic feet of space to house
it. Such a quantity would have supplied the needs of
Great Britain for that article for twenty years. June 25,
1919, the plaintiff attended the sale as a bidder. And
when the Garlock packing was offered, and after the
question of the quantity of such packing had been raised
and the auctioneer had stated that he would not guarantee any quantity, the plaintiff bid three and onefourth pence per pound for the lots of Garlock packing
shown by the catalogue to amount in all to 278,432
pounds; and these lots were knocked down to him at
that price.
The auctioneer did not know that a mistake had been
made in the catalogue, and sent plaintiff a bill which
included the amount bid for the packing. June 30, 1919,
plaintiff sent a check for the amount of the bill to the
sales agents. The same day he gave to one Davies an
option to buy from 50 to 90 tons of the packing. The
option contained the following clause: "Subject to the
quantity being in stock as sold by the U. S. A." When
the sales agents received the check, they knew that there
was no such quantity of steam packing at the depot.
July 4, 1919, plaintiff was notified that a mistake had
been made and that no such quantity had ever been at
the depot. He then wrote the sales agents that he expected delivery of the quantity for which he had paid.
0542°'-26--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

They answered explaining the mistake, and stated that
they considered the explanation sufficient to close the
incident with the return of the money. Plaintiff replied
that he would hold them to the contract; and afterwards
he made demands for delivery of the quantity erroneously
stated in the catalogue. Delivery was refused on the
ground that the quantity demanded had never been in
existence. Under an arrangement that it was done without prejudice to either party, there was returned to the
plaintiff the amount paid by him according to his bid for
the packing.
It was not the purpose of the United States to sell any
property other than that belonging to it and then at its
depot at Slough; and the facts found show that plaintiff
so understood when he made his bid. The authority to
sell conferred by Congress was limited to property
acquired for the prosecution of the War. More than seven
months had elapsed after the Armistice; a large part of
the American Expeditionary Forces had been withdrawn
from Europe, and the United States was disposing of its
surplus war supplies there. Plaintiff was warned by the
statement in the catalogue that the sales were to be held
subject to errors of description and were to be made without any warranty. He went to see the packing and had
opportunity to determine quantities. It was obvious that
the amount stated in the catalogue was erroneous and
enormously in excess of that on hand. Plaintiff made his
bid after the auctioneer had stated that he would not
guarantee any quantity of Garlock packing. And the
clause in the option to Davies shows that he was not relying on the statement of quantity in the catalogue.
It is clear that the facts are sufficient to show that when
plaintiff made his bid he was charged with knowledge that
the United States was not offering for sale any such quantity of Garlock packing as stated in the catalogue. He
was not entitled to a greater amount than the United

EVANSVILLE CO. v. CHERO COLA CO.
15

Opinion of the Court.

States had in the depot at Slough. There was no finding
that delivery of that quantity was refused or that he was
willing to accept it. He cannot recover. Lipshitz and
Cohen v. United States, 269 U. S. 90; Brawley v. United
States, 96 U. S. 168, 171. Cf. Hummel, Trustee, v. United
States, 58 Ct. Cls. 489, 494.
Judgment affirmed.

EVANSVILLE AND BOWLING GREEN PACKET
COMPANY v. CHERO COLA BOTTLING COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 127.

Argued January 13, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

A wharfboat, in a river, used as an office, warehouse, and wharf, but
not used or capable of use as a means of transportation, held not a
"vessel" within the law allowing limitation of liability. Rev.
Stats. § 4283; Act of June 19, 1886, 24 Stat. 79. P. 22.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
for want of jurisdiction, a petition in admiralty for limitation of liability.

Mr. Chauncey I. Clark, with whom Mr. Phelps F.
Darby was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. James T. Cutler and Paul H. Schmidt, with
whom Messrs. Joseph H. Iglehart and Isidor Kahn were
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellant owned a wharfboat in the Ohio River at
Evansville, Indiana. May 14, 1922, it sank, causing dam-

