OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

In the present case, in accordance with the notice of the
Veterans' Bureau that it would surrender the premises
on June 30, 1922, the Government did not occupy the
premises after that date. That is, although a lump sum
appropriation had meanwhile been made for the rental
expenses of the Veterans' Bureau for the next fiscal yearin which no reference was made to these specific leasesthe leases were not continued under this appropriation
for the next year, either by a specific agreement to that
effect or by the occupation of the premises. So, the Government did not become liable for the payment of rent
after the surrender of the premises.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
BOOTH FISHERIES COMPANY ET AL. v. INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

No. 313.

Argued May 5, 1926.--Decided May 24, 1926.

1. The Wisconsin Workmen's Compensation Act, (Ls. 1921, §§ 239419,) which makes the findings of fact of the Industrial Commission
conclusive if there be any evidence to support them, does not
thereby violate the rights of an employer under the Fourteenth
Amendment by depriving him of a judicial review of the facts on
which an award is made against him, because the Act is elective
and does not bind an employer who has not voluntarily accepted
its provisions. P. 210.
2. An employer who has made such election, accepting the burdens
of the Act with its benefits and immunities, is estopped from
questioning its constitutionality. P. 211.
3. Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287, distinguished. P. 211.
185 Wis. 127, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin sustaining an award under the state Workmen's Compensation Act.

BOOTH FISHERIES v. INDUSTRIAL COMM.
208

209

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George A. Schneider for plaintiffs in error.
Messrs. Herman L. Ekern, Attorney General of Wisconsin, and Winfield W. Gilman were on the brief, for defendant in error Industrial Commission of Wisconsin.
Mr. Lynn. D. Jaseph for defendant in error, Mary McLaughlin.
MR. CrimF JusTIcE TAF delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was a suit begun in the Circuit Court of Dane
County, Wisconsin, to review and set aside the findings
and award under the Wisconsin Workman's Compensation Act of a death benefit in favor of Mary McLaughlin
as widow of William McLaughlin, against his employer,
the Booth Fisheries Company, and that company's surety,
the Zurich General Accident & Liability Company.
The petition avers that the Industrial Commission in
making the award "acted without and in excess of its
powers" in finding that the personal injuries and death
of William McLaughlin were proximately caused by accident and not intentionally self-inflicted, and that this
finding was contrary to the evidence and contrary to the
law. The Circuit Court and the Supreme Court of the
State held that the findings of fact by the Commission
were supported by evidence, and so were conclusive.
The only question raised on the appeal to the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin was the constitutionality under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Workman's Compensation
Act of Wisconsin in its limitation of the judicial review
of the findings of fact of the Industrial Commission to
cases in which "the findings of fact by the Commission
do not support the order or award." Wisconsin Statutes,
1921, §§ 2394-19. This limitation has been held by the
state Supreme Court to mean that the findings of fact
9542°*-26--..-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U3. S.

made by the Industrial Commission are conclusive, if
there is any evidence to support them. Northwestern
Iron Co. v. Industrial Commission, 154 Wis. 97; Milwaukee v. Industrial Commission, 160 Wis. 238; Milwaukee C. & G. Co. v. Industrial Commission, 160 Wis.
247; WilTiam Rahr Sons Co. v. Industrial Commission,
166 Wis. 28; Booth Fisheries Co. v. Industrial Commission, 185 Wis. 127. It follows that the court may not in
its review weigh the evidence or set aside the finding on
the ground that it is against the preponderance of the
testimony.
It is argued that the employer in a suit for compensation under the Act is entitled under the Fourteenth
Amendment to his day in court, and that he does not
secure it unless he may submit to a court the question of
the preponderance of the evidence on the issues raised.
A complete answer to this claim is found in the elective
or voluntary character of the Wisconsin Compensation
Act. That Act provides that every employer who has
elected to do so shall become subject to the Act, that
such election shall be made by filing a written statement
with the Commission, which shall subject him to the
terms of the law for a year and until July 1st following,
and to successive terms of one year unless he withdraws.
Wisconsin Stat. § 2394-3, 4, 5. It is conceded by the
counsel for the plaintiffs in error that the Act is elective,
and that it is so is shown by the decisions of the Wisconsin court in Borgnis v. FallCompany, 147 Wis. 327,
350, and in the present case. 185 Wis. 127. If the employer elects not to accept the provisions of the compensation Act, he is not bound to respond in a proceeding
before the Industrial Commission under the Act, but may
await a suit for damages for injuries or wrongful death
by the person claiming recovery therefor, and make his
defense at law before a court in which the issues of fact
and law are to be tried by jury. In view of such an op-

BOOTH FISHERIES v. INDUSTRIAL COMM.
208

211

Opinion of the Court.

portunity for choice, the employer who elects to accept
the law may not complain that, in the plan for assessing
the employer's compensation for injury sustained, there
is no particular form of judicial review. This is clearly
settled by the decision of this Court in Hawkins v.
Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 216.
More than this, the employer in this case having
elected to accept the provisions of the law, and such benefits and immunities as it gives, may not escape its burdens
by asserting that it is unconstitutional. The election is
a waiver and estops such complaint. Daniels v. Tearney,
102 U. S. 415; Grand Rapids & I. R. Co. v. Osborn, 193
U. S. 17.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error relies chiefly on
the case of Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough,
253 U. S. 287. That case does not apply. An order of
a public service connission in fixing maximum rates for
a water company was there attacked on the ground that
the rates fixed were confiscatory. It was held that the
law creating the commission, which had operated to withhold opportunity for appeal to the courts to determine the
question, as a matter of fact and law, whether the rates
were confiscatory, could not be sustained, and was in conflict with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. But in that case, the water company was denied
opportunity to resort to a court to test the question of the
confiscatory character of its rates and of its right to earn
an adequate income. Here the employer was given an
election to defend against a full court proceeding but
accepted the alternative of the compensation Act.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin is
Affirmed.

