EX PARTE BUDER.
456

Syllabus.

of a large traffic to and from communities served by one
but not the other. Better co5rdination and more efficient
and economical operation will follow as to this traffic and
as to transcontinental traffic in connection with the Rock
Island, and relations to the traveling and shipping public
and to public authorities will be simplified and improved."
The challenged order was made upon a petition, and
neither party thereto resides within the Western District
of Texas. It related to transportation. Consequently,
the court below was without jurisdiction. See Skinner &
Eddy Corporationv. United States, 249 U. S. 557, 563.
Moreover, the bill alleged no probable direct legal injury
to appellants except such as might arise out of changed
conditions in respect of transportation to and from the
City of El Paso. Accordingly, they had no proper cause
of complaint unless the order had definite relation to
transportation. Hines, etc. v United States, 263 U. S.
143, 148.
The decree of the court below must be
Affirmed.

EX PARTE BUDER.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
IANDAIAUS.
-,

Original.

Motion submitted March 1, 1926.-Denied June 1, 1926.

1. This Court has power to issue a writ of mandamus to compel a
lower federal court to allow an appeal to this Court, but will deny
leave to file the petition when a right to such an appeal clearly

does not exist. P. 463.
2. Under Jud. Code, § 238, as amended by the Jurisdicitional Act of
February 13, 1925, a decree of the District Court is appealable
directly to this Court on constitutional grounds only when the
case arises under § 266 of the Code, as amended by the Jurisdic-

tional Act of 1925. P. 464.
3. Section 266 of the Judicial Code, as so amended, permits direct
appeals to this Court from decrees of injunction, permanent or

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

interlocutory, but relates to suits seeking relief by interlocutory
injunction restraining the execution of orders of administrative
boards, etc., upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of the
state statutes upon which they acted. P. 464.

4. A suit in the District Court for a permanent injunction against
enforcement of a tax on the shares of a national bank under a
state statute enacted pursuant to Rev. Stats. § 5219, is not of the
character specified in Jud. Code, § 266, and the final decree is
therefore not appealable directly to this Court under § 238, as
amended, where the ground of the suit and the decree was not
that the state statute was unconstitutional, but that it went out of

force when § 5219 was amended by the Act of March 4, 1923, so
as to allow the State to choose between taxing national bank
shares, their dividends, or the income of the bank. P. 465.

Motion denied.
MOTION for leave to file a petition for a mandamus
requiring the judge of the District Court of the Eastern
Division of the Eastern Judicial District of Missouri to
allow an appeal to this Court from a decree permanently
enjoining the petitioning state officers from enforcing a
tax on shares of a national bank. See FirstNat. Bank v.
Buder, 8 Fed. (2d) 883.

Mr. James T. Blair for petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a motion by Buder and other taxing officers of
the City of St. Louis for leave to file in this Court a petition for a writ of mandamus against the federal District
Judge of the Eastern Division of the Eastern Judicial
District of Missouri; or, in the alternative, for a writ of
certiorari to that court; and for a rule to show cause why
such writs should not issue. The purpose of the petition
is to compel the District Judge to allow a direct appeal
to this Court from a final decree entered by that court
on December 7, 1925, against the taxing officers in a suit

EX PARTE BUDER.
461

Opinion of the Court.

brought by the First National Bank in St. Louis for a
permanent injunction restraining the enforcement of a
tax levied upon its stockholders. First National Bank v.
Buder, 8 Fed. (2d) 883.
The decree was entered upon a hearing before a single
judge. An interlocutory injunction had not been prayed
for in the bill or otherwise sought. The taxing officers
took an appeal to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which was allowed and
is now pending. Then they applied to the District Judge
for the allowance also of a direct appeal to this Court,
because they were uncertain whether the appeal lay to
it or to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The District Judge
refused the application, and stated as his reasons, that the
appeal had been properly taken to the Court of Appeals,
had been allowed and was pending there; and that this
Court did not have jurisdiction of the case on appeal.
An application for allowance of the appeal was then presented to the Justice of this Court assigned to that Circuit
and was denied. Thereupon, within three months after
entry of the decree in the District Court, this motion for
leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus was made.
That this Court has power to issue a writ of mandamus
to compel a lower federal court to allow an appeal to this
Court has long been settled. Ex parte Crane, 5 Pet. 190;
United States v. Gomez, 3 Wall. 752, 766. In a few instances the writ of mandamus has issued for that purpose,
Vigo's Case, 21 Wall. 648; Ex parte Jordan, 94 U. S. 248;
Ex parte Railroad Company, 95 U. S. 221. In other cases
where there was reason to believe that an appeal was
wrongly denied by the lower court and no other remedy
appeared to be available, this Court granted the motion
for leave to file the petition and issued a rule to show
cause. Mussina v. Cavazos, 20 How. 281: Ex parte Cutting, 94 U. S. 14. Where it was clear that the petitioner

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 I. S.

had another remedy the motion for leave to file the petition was denied. Ex parte Virginia Commissioners, 112
U. S. 177. The motion should likewise be denied where
it is clear that the appeal does not lie, or for other reasons
the relief sought by the petition cannot be granted. Ex
parteBrown, post, p. 645. Compare In re Green, 141 U. S.
325; Iowa v. Slimmer, 248 U. S. 115. In the case at bar.
we deem it clear that there was no right to a direct appeal
to this Court. We, therefore, deny the motion for leave
to file the petition.
In support of the claim to a direct appeal, it is contended that the injunction complained of was granted on
the ground that the state taxing statute violates the
federal Constitution. The assignment of errors, which
accompanied the petition for allowance of the appeal,
alleged that the District Court erred also in not holding
unconstitutional a recent federal statute involved. These
contentions, if substantial, would have supplied the basis
for a direct appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code before
that section was amended by Act of February 13, 1925,
c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 938. But § 238 was so far changed
by that Act that now there is no right to such a direct
appeal on constitutional grounds unless the case arises
under § 266 of the Judicial Code as amended by that Act.
Otherwise it must go in the first instance to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and may come here only for the review
of that court's action.
The suits to which § 266 relates are those in which
the relief sought is an "interlocutory injunction suspending or restraining the enforcement, operation, or execution of any statute of a State by'restraining the action
of any officer of such State in the enforcement or execution of an order made by an administrative board or commission acting under and pursuant to the statutes of such
State . . . upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of such statute." In any such suit the application

EX PARTE BUDER.
Opinion of the Court.

461

for an interlocutory injunction was required to be heard
before three judges and from their decree a direct appeal
lay to this Court; but, prior to the Act of February 13,
1925, the final hearing in the suit was had before a single
judge. Compare Patterson v. Mobile Gas Co., ante, p.
131. From his decree a direct appeal to this Court could
be founded only upon the provisions of § 238 as originally
enacted. Shffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 44. Where the
jurisdiction of the District Court was invoked upon other
federal grounds, as well as the one attacking the constitutionality of the state statute, an appeal might be taken
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, with ultimate review in
this Court if the case was of the class within its jurisdiction. Lemke v. Farmers' Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50, 53.
To remove the existing anomaly and to prevent that
which would otherwise have resulted from the repealing
provisions of the Act of February 13, 1925, that Act
further amended § 266, as amended by Act of March 4,
1913, c. 160, 37 Stat. 1013, by adding at the end thereof:
"The requirement respecting the presence of three judges
shall also apply to the final hearing in such suit in the
district court; and a direct appeal to the Supreme Court
may be taken from a final decree granting or denying a
permanent injunction in such suit." As so amended § 266
also permits a direct appeal to this Court from the final
decree in those suits in which the hearing on an application for an interlocutory injunction is required to be
before three judges.
First National Bank v. Buder, supra, is not a case of
that character because no state statute was assailed as being
repugnant to the Federal Constitution. The tax upon the
shares in the bank was assessed as of June 1, 1923, for the
year 1924. It was assessed pursuant to a statute in force
ever since 1889-which had been incorporated as § 12,775
in the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1919. Prior to the
Act of Congress of March 4, 1923, c. 267, 42 Stat. 1499,
9542o-26-30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

amending § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, that statute was confessedly valid and operative.1
It was then the only method of taxation permitted by
the federal law. The Act of 1923 enlarged the scope of
the State's power to tax national banks. It authorized
the State either to tax the shares of a national bank, or to
include dividends derived therefrom in taxable income of
the holder thereof, or to tax the income of the bank; and
provided that the "imposition by said State of any one
of the above three forms of taxation shall be in lieu of the
others." In 1917, Missouri enacted a law taxing income
which, so far as here material, has remained in force without change. After the 1923 Act of Congress, the State
might, in the exercise of the option which that Act conferred, have elected to tax national banks by taxing the
income-instead of by taxing the shares as had theretofore been done. The State did not by any new legislation signify its election among the three permissible modes
of taxation. Because it had not done so, the District
Court held the assessment void and enjoined the taxing
officials. Whether it erred in so holding is the question
for decision on the appeal.
The claim that the tax is void rests, not upon a contention that the state statute under which it was laid is
unconstitutional, but upon a contention that the statute
is no longer in force. The State confessedly has the same
power to tax the shares that it had before Congress enacted the 1923 amendment. The argument is that, as the
State after 1923 had the option to tax either the shares cr
the income, it must manifest its election and has not done
so. Whether, in order to do so, it must enact new legislation depends upon the construction of the Act of Congress. Whether, if this is not necessary, it has manifested its election by the existing legislation, depends upon
'Section 5219 of the Revised Statutes has been further amended
by Act of March 25, 1926, c. 88, 44 Stat. 223.

UNITED STATES v. RAMSEY.
461

Syllabus.

the construction of the state statutes. But in neither of
these questions is the constitutionality of the state statutes involved; and a substantial claim of unconstitutionality is necessary for the application of § 266. See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett,231 U. S. 298, 304.
The decree is thus not one from which a direct appeal lies
to this Court.
Additional objections to granting the motion for leave
to file the petition are suggested, but need not be
considered.
Motion denied.
UNITED STATES v. RAMSEY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 1061.

Argued April 22, 1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.

1. The authority of the United States to punish crimes committed
by or against tribal Indians in the "Indian country" (Rev. Stats.
§ 2145) in Oklahoma continued after the admission of that State
as before. P. 469.
2. The term "Indian country" within the meaning of § 2145, applies
to a restricted Osage Indian allotment. P. 470.
3. There is no difference in respect of the applicability of § 2145
between a "restricted" and a "trust" allotment. Id.
leversed.

to a judgment of the District Court sustaining a
demurrer to an indictment.
ERROR

Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Luhring and Mr. Roy St. Lewis were on
the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. William S. Hamilton and S. P. Freeling, with
whom Messrs. J. 21. Springer, Edward C. Gross, and J. I.
Howard were on the brief, for defendants in error.

