APPLEBY v. DELANEY.
364

Syllabus.

extent as a slip or permanent mooring place for the adjoining piers of the city. They are also entitled to a
specific injunction against the overhanging platform

which was put out by the city for its tenants on the north
side of the 39th Street pier.
The application of the Acts of 1857 and 1871 by the
courts of New York would reduce the rights which were
intended to be conveyed in these deeds to practically
nothing, and would leave the grantees only the privilege
of paying taxes for something quite unsubstantial. The
qualification of those rights by the order of the Secretary

of War still leaves value in the deeds, if the Acts of 1857
and 1871 are invalid, as we hold them to be when applied

as they have been in this case.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of New York is

reversed for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Revemed.
APPLEBY ET AL. v. DELANEY, COMMISSIONER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 16.

Argued October 7, 1925; reargued March 1, 2, 1926.-.
Decided June 1, 1926.

1. Acting under general authority contained in a New York statute
of 1871, the Dock Commissioner of New York, with the approval
of the Sinking Fund Trustees of the city, adopted a plan of harbor
improvement inconsistent with the right of the plaintiffs, under
contracts made with the city before the date of the statute, to
fill in their water lots out to a bulkhead line; and their application to the Commissioner for permission to do such filling was
therefore denied by him. Held, that the refusal was equivalent of
a law of the State impairing the obligation of the contracts, within
the meaning of Article I, § 10, of the Constitution; and that this
court had jurisdiction, under Jud. Code, § 237, to review by writ
of error a judgment of the state court sustaining the refusal over
the constitutional objection. P. 409.
2. Where the grantees of water lots, conveyed to them by the City
of New York, in fee simple, "to be made and gained out of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1025.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

Hudson River," together with wharfage rights, covenanted to build
wharves, bulkheads, and certain avenues and streets within the
outboundaries of the premises conveyed, upon request of the city,
but not to build them without its permission, and the ordinance
under which the deeds were made provided that "No grant made
by virtue of this ordinance shall authorize the grantee to construct bulkheads or piers or make land in conformity therewith,
without permission to do so is first had and obtained from the
common council." Held:
(1) That the requirement of the city's consent before filling
should be construed as relating to the streets, and not to the lots
between them, since, otherwise, the enjoyment of the lots,--for
which the grantees gave valuable considerations and on which for
many years they had paid the city taxes in reliance on this construction, as supported by utterances of the state courts and declared to have become a rule of property,--would be dependent
upon the mere pleasure of the city. P.-409.
(2) That, if the provision applied at all to the lots, it should
be regarded as a mere police regulation, requiring a permit for the
purpose of supervising the filling, in protection of the public
order. P. 413.
235 N. Y. 364; 199 App. Div. 552; reversed.

This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of New York in a suit for mandamus entered by
direction of the Court of Appeals of New York, in a case
involving the same deeds of water lots between 39th and
41st Streets, on the east side of North or Hudson River,
which have been under consideration in the case just
decided. The petition of the Applebys as relators in this
case shows, that they have performed all the covenants
they had to perform under the deeds; that neither they
nor their predecessors in title had ever been required to
build or erect piers, wharves or bulkheads, referred to in
the deeds; that, under the Act of 1871, a Department of
Docks was created, with general supervision and control
of the dock property of the city; that it was given authority, with the approval of the Sinking Fund trustees of the
city, to make a plan or plans for the improvement of the
harbor, to lay out wharves, and to condemn such vested

APPLEBY v. DELANEY.
403

Statement of the Case.

property interests of individuals as might interfere with
such plans and make compensation therefor; that in June,
1891, the city instituted a condemnation proceeding to
acquire the Appleby property, but that, in 1914, it discontinued it and since that has never attempted to acquire
title to the premises; that a plan was adopted, in 1916,
by the Dock Commission for harbor improvement, with
the approval of the Sinking Fund trustees, for a marginal
wharf to be 250 feet wide, to include all of 12th Avenue, and so much of the Appleby property as lay west of
12th Avenue, and within a distance of 100 feet westerly
therefrom, which would interfere with relators filling their
lots; that in December, 1919, the Applebys made applicotion to the Commissioner of Docks to begin and continue
the filling of the two lots of the Applebys within the government bulkhead line as permitted by their deeds; that
the Commissioner of Docks, in answer to this application,
wrote as follows:
"January 31st, 1920.
"Replying to your letter of the 26th instant, I beg to
advise you that the application of Edgar S. Appleby and
John S. Appleby for permission to construct either a platform between West 39th and West 41st Streets, North
River, or a concrete wall on platform construction with
sheet piling along the inner side to retain filling is hereby
formally denied on account of the fact that the proposed
construction is not in accordance with the new plan."
Thereupon this suit was brought by the Applebys
against the Dock Commissioner to compel the issuing of
the necessary permit. This was denied by the Supreme
Court in special term. The denial was reversed in the
Supreme Court, Appellate Division, and that reversal was
in turn reversed by the Court of Appeals in an opinion
as follows:
"Relators seek to compel the commissioner of docks to
approve permits for the filling in of lands under water.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

"The facts herein are substantially the same as in
Appleby v. City of New York, decided herewith, with this
difference: The city established a new bulkhead line in
1916, which crosses the premises granted between Twelfth
and Thirteenth avenues. It was held in the action that
the rights of the relators are not limited by this bulkhead
line but only by the bulkhead line established by the
secretary of war. The court below decided herein that a
writ of peremptory mandamus should issue unless condemnation proceedings were instituted to acquire relators' property and property rights within such line.
(199 App. Div. 552.)
"We held in the action that the title of relators to lands
actually under water is subject to the rights of the city to
improve the same for the purposes of navigation but that
the city must re-acquire the property right in the land
under water which it has conveyed before it can carry out
its plans for such improvement.
"This application should not, however, be granted,
Section 15 of title 4 of the sinking fund ordinance of 1844.
referred to in the opinion in the action, provides:
"'No grant made by virtue of this ordinance shall
authorize the grantee to construct bulkheads or piers or
make land in conformity therewith, without permission
to do so is first had and obtained from the common
council.'
"The water grants under which relators hold title also
provide:
"'And it is hereby further covenanted and agreed, by
and between the parties to these presents, and the true
intent and meaning hereof is that the said party of the
second part, his heirs and assigns will not build the said
wharves, bulkheads, avenues or streets hereinbefore mentioned or any part thereof, or make the lands in conformity with the covenants hereinafter mentioned until permission for that purpose shall be first had and obtained

APPLEBY v. DELANEY.
403

Statement of the Case.

from the said parties of the first part, or their successors,
and will not build or erect or cause to be built or erected
any wharf or pier or other obstruction in the Hudson
River in front of the hereby granted premises without the
permission of the said parties of the first part or their
successors or assigns first had for that purpose.'
"In Duryea v. Mayor, etc. (62 N. Y. 592) it was said
that a similar clause did not limit the right of the owners
to fil1 the space between the streets, but on a subsequenf
appeal (Duryea v. Mayor, etc., 96 N. Y. 477), it was said
that the provisions of the sinking fund ordinance had not
been called to the court's attention on the first appeal and
it was held that the council had given its consent. We are
free to interpret the clause according to its meaning. To
construe the ordinance and the grants as permitting the
filling of the land between the streets at the will of the
grantee and as prohibiting the building of the wharves and
streets without the consent of the common council would
be unreasonable. The lands are thus held subject to the
conditions of the grant and may not be filled in without
the approval of the city authorities. The power to grant
permission to construct bulkheads or piers and to make
land in conformity with relators' grants implies the right
to withhold such permission."
The Sinking Fund ordinance, referred to in the opinion
of the Court of Appeals, does not appear in the record.
The Court of Appeals, however, took judicial notice of it,
and the following statement with respect to it is taken
from the opinion of that court in the case of Duryea v.
The Mayor, 96 N. Y. 477, 485, 486:
"These ordinances adopted in 1844 provide, among
other things, that the lands under water on the shores of
the island of New York, belonging to that city under its
several charters, might be sold and conveyed by such city
to parties desiring to purchase the same, giving priority to
the owner of the adjacent upland upon certain terms and
conditions therein mentioned."

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

271 U. S.

"Section 15 reads:
"' No grant made by virtue of this ordinance shall authorize the grantee to construct bulkheads or piers or
make land in conformity thereto without permission so to
do is first had and obtained from the common council,
and the grantee shall be bound to make such lands, piers
and bulkheads at such times and in such manner as the
common council shall direct under penalty of forfeiture of
such grant for noncompliance with such terms of the common council.'

"These ordinances were recognized and approved by
the state legislature in ch. 225 of the Laws of 1845, and
were attempted thereby to be placed beyond the power of
the local authorities of the city to limit or amend without
the previous consent of the Legislature."
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Banton
Moore was on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Charles J. Nehrbas, with whom Mr. George P.
Nicholson was on the briefs, for defendant in error.
It seems plain that the decision of the Court of Appeals
was not based on any act of legislation of the State of
New York passed subsequently to the grants in question.
The decision was purely one of the construction, meaning, and intention of the grants. Ross v. Oregon, 227
U. S. 150; Moore-Mansfield Co. v. Electrical Install. Co.,
234 U. S. 619; Cleveland & PittsburghR. Co. v. Cleveland,
235 U. S. 50; Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan, 263 U. S. 444;
Fleming v. Fleming, 264 U. S. 29. It is not true, as
claimed by the plaintiffs, that the New York courts have
given effect to the limitation attempted to be provided
by the new bulkhead line of 1916. On the contrary, the
Court of Appeals has expressly held that the rights of the
plaintiffs are not limited by that line. The sole ground
of the decision is that the grants from the city to the
plaintiffs' predecessors in title, construed in the light of

APPLEBY v. DELANEY.
403

Opinion of the Court.

the ordinance pursuant to which they were made, required the permission of the common council of the City
of New York before any filling could be done. Duryea
v. Mayor, 96 N. Y. 477; 62 N. Y. 592.
1MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

The relators base their writ upon the alleged impairinent of their contract rights contained in the grant and
covenants of their deeds by the plan, adopted in 1916,
under the Act of 1871, by the Dock Department, and
approved by the Sinking Fund trustees, the execution of
which the Dock Commissioner is enforcing by a formal
refusal to grant permission, as requested by. the relators,
to fill up their lots. The authority of the Dock Commissioner and the Sinking Fund trustees, under the Act of
1871, is such as to make the plan and the refusl equivalent to a statute of the State, and, assuming that it is in
conflict with the grant and covenants of relators' deeds,
it is a law of the State impairing a contract obligation
under § 10, Article I, of the Federal Constitution. New
Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Refining Co.,
125 U. S.18; Williams v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176, 183; Walla
Walla City v. Walla Walla Water Works Company, 172
U. S.1; Mercantile Trust & Deposit Company v. Columbus, 203 U. S. 311; Zucht v. King, 260 U. S. 174. We
have jurisdiction of the writ of error under § 237 of the
Judicial Code.
The question in this case then is whether the deeds
before us, construed in connection with the Sinking Fund
ordinance of 1844, gave to the plaintiffs the right to fill
in the lots without the consent of the city. Each deed
described the land conveyed as follows: "All that certain
water lot or vacant ground and soil under water to be made
land and gained out of the Hudson or North River or
harbor of New York, and bounded," etc.," together with all

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and singular the privileges, advantages, hereditaments and
appurtenances to the same belonging or in any wise appertaining." The grants were in fee simple. The grantees
respectively covenanted that they would, upon the request of the city, build bulkheads, wharves, streets and
avenues to form part of 12th and 13th Avenues, and 39th,
40th and 41st Streets, which were within the general description of the premises conveyed. These were excepted
therefrom for public streets. The grantees agreed to pay
the taxes on the lots lying between the streets. There
was a covenant that they would not build the wharves,
bulkheads, avenues or streets previously mentioned until
permission had been given by the city. The city covenanted that the grantees might have wharfage on the
westerly side" of the granted premises fronting on the
Hudson River, excepting at the westerly ends of the cross
streets, which was reserved for the city.
In a deed of a similar water lot on the east side of the
city, with exactly the same covenants, the question arose
in the case of Duryea v. The Mayor, etc., 62 N. Y. 592,
596, whether the covenants with respect to filling the
streets applied to the filling of the water lots between
the streets, and it was held that they did not. The court
said, at page 596:
"The only covenant in the deed for making lands applies exclusively to the building of streets, wharves, etc.,
and there is not a word pertaining to the intermediate
spaces."
In the same case reported in 96 N. Y. 477, the Sinking
Fund ordinance, not referred to in the first decision, was
pressed upon the court to change its conclusion in the first
hearing and to hold that the city had the absolute right,
by reason of the ordinance, to forbid the filling of the
land conveyed. As to that, the court said:
"It may well be doubted whether the construction formerly given by this Court to the covenants contained in

APPLEBY v. DELANEY.
403

Opinion of the Court.

the deed should not also be deemed applicable to the
provision of the sinking fund ordinance. The object of
this provision was not to cause any interest in the land
conveyed to be retained by the grantor, or to postpone the
period of-enjoyment of its owners, or increase the security
of the public creditors, but was obviously designed to
enable the grantor to shield itself from the burden of
caring for and maintaining the piers, wharves and streets
until such time as it should deem the assumption thereof
profitable and expedient, and to fix the time and manner
of erecting those structures with reference to the introduction therein of water, gas, sewer pipes and other necessary conveniences which naturally fell under the supervision and control of the city authorities. The accomplishment of this object would in no way be materially
interfered with by allowing the grantees to proceed with
their contemplated work of redeeming their lands from
the water and realizing the benefits, which were the sole
inducement to them, for its purchase."
It referred to the conduct of the city through all its
departments for a period of upwards of twenty years in
dealing with the ordinance and deeds like this as having
affixed the interpretation claimed by the relators as the
true intent and meaning of both. It said further:
"The rule by which this ordinance is to be construed is
such as applies to the interpretation of the acts of other
legislative bodies, and is that which shall best effectuate
the intent of its authors. The reason and object of an
act are to be regarded to arrive at its meaning, and while
it is not competent to interpret that which has no need
of interpretation, or to deny to clear and precise terms the
sense which they naturally present, yet when such terms
lead to manifest injustice and involve an absurdity, law
and equity both require us to give such an effect to the
language used as will accomplish the obvious intent of
the legislature.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

"The only lands expressly provided to be made by the
ordinance are those constituting the piers, wharves, streets
and avenues, and since it is unnecessary in order to give
the clause in question an office to perform, to extend it
to lands outside of such streets, and to create a right
unconnected with those clearly intended to be granted,
it is in accordance with settled rules of interpretation to
limit the effect of general language to the accomplishment
of the object undoubtedly intended. If it be held that
the words 'make land in conformity thereto,' as used in
the ordinance, apply only to the lands necessary to form
the piers, bulkheads and streets, the defendant will not
only be protected in all of the rights intended to be secured to it, but the grantee will receive the benefits of
his purchase and the deed will be free from objection on
account of the apparent repugnancy existing between the
interests actually conveyed and those apparently reserved.
"It is quite inconceivable that parties should purchase
land burdened with the condition that it should be enjoyed only by the permission of the grantor, and a construction having that effect, should only be adopted when
no other is possible or sustainable."
After giving this construction to the deed and ordinance, the court then examined the evidence and found
that the common council had by its conduct consented to
the filling in of the lots; and, because in its summing up
the court referred to the latter ground, it is insisted that
its chief discussion and conclusion upon The construction
of the ordinance and deed are not to be treated as authority. It should be noted that the construction of the deed
by the court in the Duryea Case upon this point was
referred to approvingly as authority in Mayor v. Law,
125 N. Y. 380, 381, where, citing the Duryea Case, the
court used this language with respect to a similar covenant:
"The grantee became the absolute owner of the land
between the streets-the land granted, and [that] he

APPLEBY v. DELANEY.
403

413

Opinion of the Court.

could fill it up whenever he chose, suiting his own pleasure as to the time and manner of doing it, but there
was nothing in the grant binding him to fill it up."
The court of Appeals in the present case disposed of the
question we are discussing as follows:
"To construe the ordinance and the grants as permitting the filling of the land between the streets at the will
of the grantee, and prohibiting the building of the
wharves and streets, without the consent of the common
council would be unreasonable."
We can not agree with this. We think the reasons
advanced by that Court in the second Duryea Case to
sustain the opposite construction of the deed and ordinance are much more persuasive. It has added force
when it appears from the opinion in the Duryea Case, and
the conclusion of the Appellate Division in this case, that
such construction of such deeds and the ordinance has
become a rule of property for more than fifty years. It
is not reasonable to suppose that the grantees would pay
$12,000, in 1852 and 1853, and leave to the city authorities the absolute right completely to nullify the chief
consideration for seeking this property in making dry
land, or that the parties then took that view of the transaction. In addition to the down payment, the grantees
or their successors have paid the taxes assessed by the
city for seventy-five years, which have evidently amounted
to much more than $70,000. It does not seem fair to us,
after these taxes have been paid for sixty years, in the
confidence, justified by the decision of the highest state
court, that there was the full right to fill in at the pleasure
of the grantees and without the consent of the city, now
to hold that all this expenditure may go for naught at the
pleasure of the city.
If the Sinking Fund ordinance is to be applied at all to
the filling in of the land in the limits within the deeds, it
should in our judgment be regarded as a mere police

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

requirement of a permit incident to the filling and to
supervising its execution by regulation as to time and
method, so that it should not disturb the public order.
Had the refusal of the Commissioner of Docks, charged
with the police regulation as to the docks, taken this
form, an application for mandamus might well have been
denied, because only an effort to control the police discretion of the public authorities, but the refusal to permit
the ifiling to begin is not put on any such ground. It is
denied because the city has a different plan, which does
not permit the filling at all. This is an assertion of the
right of the city absolutely to prevent the filling which
is an impairment of the obligation of the contract made
by the city with these plaintiffs, in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
THORNTON

ET

AL. v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 255. Argued April 20, 1926-Decided June 1, 1926.
1. Regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture issued pursuant to
statute are noticed judicially. P. 418.
2. Under the Acts governing the subject, it is not essential to the
validity of regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture respecting
live stock diseases that the regulations be certified to, or accepted
by, the State. P. 422.
3. An indictment for conspiracy to commit the offense, under § 62
of the Penal Code, of interfering with and assaulting agents of the
Bureau of Animal Industry while discharging their duties in supervising and causing the dipping of cattle to prevent the spread of
a contagious disease, and charging the use of deadly weapons, need
not allege that the cattle dipped were subject-matter of interstate

