OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

271 U. S.

violation of appellant's rights. There was jurisdiction.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion. See The Pesaro, 255 U. S. 216; Smith v. Apple,
264 U. S. 274; Smyth v. Asphalt Belt Ry., 267 U. S. 326.
Reversed.
MELLON, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. MICHIGAN
TRUST COMPANY, RECEIVER.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 272. Argued April 27, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. In view of § 10 of the Federal Control Act, a claim for transportation charges and for conversion of goods shipped, presented by
the Director General of Railroads against an insolvent who made a
voluntary assignment, is not entitled to the priority granted the
United States by Rev. Stats. § 3466. P. 237.
2. Cause held to be reviewable by certiorari and not by appeal.
P. 240.
2 Fed. (2d) 194, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which sustained the District Court in denying priority of payment to a claim made by the Director General
of Railroads in a suit to wind up affairs of an insolvent
corporation. An appeal also was taken, and is dismissed.

Mr. Sidney F. Andrews, with whom Messrs. A. A. McLaughlin, George M. Clapperton, and Charles M. Owen
were on the brief, for appellant and petitioner.
The claims filed by the Director General were claims
on behalf of the United States. In re Hibner Oil Co.,
264 Fed. 667; In re Tidewater Coal Exch., 280 Fed. 648;
Davis v. Pullen, 277 Fed. 650; Davis v. Miller-Link
Lumber Co., 296 Fed. 649; United States v. ButterworthJudson Corp., 269 U. S. 504; DuPont de Nemours & Co.

MELLON v. MICHIGAN TRUST CO.
236

237

Opinion of the Court.

v. Davis, 264 U. S. 456; Davis v. Corona Coal Co., 265
U. S. 219.
They were, under § 3466, Rev. Stats., entitled to priority, because the debtor, when insolvent, made a voluntary assignment of all his property for the benefit of his
creditors and the receiver was invested with title as trustee for the creditors, and hence bound to give priority to
these claims.
Mr. Stuart E. Knappen for appellee and respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Creditors of the Rathbone Manufacturing Company
filed a bill against it in the United States District Court,
Western District of Michigan, wherein they alleged its
inability to pay lawful debts in due course, etc., and asked
for a receiver. Answering, the corporation, (which was,
in fact, insolvent,) admitted the allegations and gave consent to the relief prayed. Thereupon, the Michigan
Trust Company was appointed receiver, took possession
of the property and entered upon-administration of the
trust.
The Director General of Railroads presented claims for
transportation charges and conversion of a shipment of
pig iron. He asked priority of payment, which was denied
by both the trial court and the Circuit Court of Appeals.
2 Fed. (2d) 194.
As pointed out in United States v. Butterworth-Judson
Corporation, 269 U. S.504, the things done by the Rathbone Manufacturing Company amounted, in substance, to
a voluntary assignment of all its property within the
meaning of R. S. § 3466.* Consequently, if the Director
*"

Whenever any person indebted to the United States is insolvent,

or whenever the estate of any deceased debtor, in the hands of the
executors or administrators, is insufficient to pay all the debts due

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

General is entitled to the priority granted to the United
States by that section, the judgment below must be reversed. But it is said here, and was held below, that
such priority is inhibited by the provisions of § 10, Act of
March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451, 456, which providesM
"That carriers while under Federal control shall be subject to all laws and liabilities as common carriers, whether
arising under State or Federal laws or at common law, except insofar as may be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other Act applicable to such Federal control or with any order of the President. Actions at law
or suits in equity may be brought by and against such carriers and judgments rendered as now provided by law;
and in any action at law or suit in equity against the carrier, no defense shall be made thereto upon the ground
that the carrier is an instrumentality or agency of the
Federal Government. Nor shall any such carrier be entitled to have transferred to a Federal court any action
heretofore or hereafter instituted by or against it, which
action was not so transferable prior to the Federal control
of such carrier; and any action which has heretofore been
so transferred because of such Federal control or of any
Act of Congress or official order or proclamation relating
thereto shall upon motion of either party be retransferred
to the court in which it was originally instituted. But no
process, mesne or final, shall be levied against any property under such Federal control."
Under Davis v. Pringle, 268 U. S. 315, if the estate of
the Rathbone Manufacturing Company were being adfrom the deceased, the debts due to the United States shall be first
satisfied; and the priority hereby established shall extend as well to
cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his
debts, makes a voluntary assignment thereof, or in which the estate
and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor are attached
by process of law, as to cases in which an act of bankruptcy is com-

mitted."

MELLON v. MICHIGAN TRUST CO.
236

Opinion of the Court.

ministered under the Bankruptcy Act the claims of the
Director General would not be entitled to preference. It
is also plain, under Brainwell v. United States Fidelity &
Guaranty Co., 269 U. S. 483; Price v. United States, id.
492; and United States v. Butterworth-Judson Corporation, supra, that, in proceedings like the present one, debts
due directly to the United States, nothing else appearing,
are ordinarily entitled to priority under R. S. § 3466. Decision of this cause, therefore, must turn upon the effect to
be given § 10, Act of 1918, supra.
All agree that the rights of the Director General rest
upon statutory provisions, and not upon any sovereign
prerogative of the United States. In taking over and
operating the railroads, the United States acted in their
sovereign capacity. DuPont de Nemours & Co. v.
Davis, 264 U. S. 456, 462. But it was for Congress to
determine whether or not claims arising out of such operation should have priority when the debtor made a voluntary assignment. In cases of bankruptcy.the statute then
in force prohibited any preference.
In some matters, at least, under § 10, the United States
stand exactly as if they were a railroad corporation operating as a common carrier. Director General v. Kastenbaum, 263 U. S. 25, 28. As said in Davis v. Pullen, 277
Fed. 650, 655, "there is a certain obvious injustice in
giving the United States when engaged in an industrial
and commercial venture, even although under war powers, superior rights over other creditors bearing like relations to insolvents." And we think that the indicated
purpose of Congress will be best carried out by construing
the relevant statutes, so far as may be, with the general
intent to preserve the substantive rights of all parties
concerned as they would have existed but for federal
control.
Section 10 subjected the Director General, as an operator of common carriers, to the laws theretofore applicable

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

to them, except when inconsistent with some provision of
the federal control acts or an order of the President, and
forbade him to defend, in any suit against him as such
operator, upon the ground that he was an instrumentality or agency of the federal government. In the circumstances presented by this record, it is reasonable to
say that the statute confined his substantive rights to
those which a carrier would have had, and prohibits him,
as though he were an actual defendant in a suit, from
resisting the demands of others for equal distribution of
the insolvent's assets, under the commonly-applied rule,
upon the ground that he is an instrumentality of the federal government. To permit the claimed preference, we
think, would conflict with the spirit and broad purpose
of the statute. These become plain enough upon consideration of the just ends which Congress had in view
together with the recent policy, revealed by the Bankruptcy Act, in respect of priorities.
The cause is properly here on the writ of certiorari.
The appeal was improvidently allowed by the circuit
judge, and is dismissed.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
FENNER ET AL. v. BOYKIN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 308. Argued May 4, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
Enforcement of a state penal statute, even of one contrary to the
federal Constitution, may be interfered with by injunction orders
of a federal court only in extraordinary circumstances where the
danger of irreparable loss is both great and immediate. P. 243.
3 Fed. (2d) 674, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court refusing
preliminary injunction in a suit by Fenner and others

