OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

In the Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Sanborn presented a well-considered dissenting opinion and pointed
out that the only judicable question before that court was
whether or not the order for the injunction and the record
disclosed an unlawful, improvident or abusive use of the
sound discretion which the trial judge was required to
exercise. 7 Fed. (2d) 838, 851; and see Ex parte United
States, 263 U. S. 389. He could find no such abuse, and
neither can I. The trial court did no more than the circumstances permitted. We should approve its action
with commendation of the impelling courage and good
sense.

MORSE DRYDOCK & REPAIR COMPANY v.

STEAMSHIP NORTHERN STAR, ETC.,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 326.

Argued May 6, 7, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. Subsection R of § 30 of the Ship Mortgage Act of June 5, 1920,
providing that nothing therein shall be construed to confer a lien
for repairs when the furnisher by exercise of reasonable diligence
could have ascertained that because of the terms of a charter party,
agreement for sale of the vessel, or for any other reason, the person
ordering the repairs was without authority to bind the vessel
therefor, does not attempt to forbid a lien for repairs simply
because the owner has stipulated with a mortgagee not to give any
paramount security on the ship; the most that such a stipulation
can do is to postpone the claim of the party chargeable with notice
of it to that of the mortgagee. P. 553.
2. Under the Ship M'1ortgage Act of June 5, 1920, a maritime lien
for repairs ordered by the owner takes precedence over a mortgage
of the ship which was executed, and recorded in the office of the
Collector, before the repairs were made, and a certified copy of
which was kept with the ship's papers since before that time, but
which was not endorsed upon the ship's papers by the Collector,

MORSE DRYDOCK CO. v. NORTHERN STAR. 553
552

Opinion of the Court.

the Act requiring such an endorsement in order that the mortgage
may be valid against persons not having actual notice. P. 555.
7 Fed. (2d) 505, reversed.CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a decree of the District Court (295 Fed.
366) sustaining the prior claim of an intervening mortgagee, in a suit to enforce a maritime lien for repairs
against a vessel.
Mr. Arthur H. Stetson for petitioner.
Mr. Frank A. Bernero, with whom Mr. Gerson C.
Young was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner libelled the Northern Star alleging a
lien for repairs furnished in New York, the home port of
the vessel. The intervenor, Luber, set up a mortgage
from the owner, the American Star Line, Inc., for over a
million dollars, and the question here is which is entitled
to priority. Both the District Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals decided in favor of the mortgage. 295
Fed. 366. 7 Fed. (2d) 505. A writ of certiorari was
granted by this Court. 268 U. S. 683.
The mortgage, originally given to the United States
when the ship was purchased, was executed and recorded
on August 11, 1920, and a certified copy was left and kept
with the ship's papers from September 23, 1920, but it
was not endorsed upon the ship's papers until June 27,
1921. The repairs were made between November 14 and
November 27, 1920, at the owner's request. One of the
covenants of the mortgage was not to suffer or permit to
be continued any lien that might have priority over the
mortgage, and in any event within fifteen days after the
same became due to satisfy it. Another covenant, probably shaped before the then recent Ship Mortgage Act,

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

1920, June 5, 1920, c. 250, § 30, 41 Stat. 988, 1000, required the mortgagor to carry a certified copy of the
mortgage with the ship's papers, and to take other appropriate steps to give notice that the owner had no right
to permit to be imposed on the vessel any lien superior
to the mortgage. On these facts we feel no doubt that
the petitioner got a lien upon the ship, as was assumed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Ship Mortgage Act,
Subsection P, 41 Stat. 1005.
The owner of course had 'authority to bind the vessel'
by virtue of his title without the aid of statute. The only
importance of the statute was to get rid of the necessity
for a special contract or for evidence that credit was given
to the vessel. Subsection R, it is true, after providing
that certain officers shall be included among those presumed to have authority from the owner to create a lien
for supplies, goes on that "nothing in this section shall
be construed to confer a lien when the furnisher knew,
or by exercise of reasonable diligence could have ascer•tained, that because of the terms of a charter party, agreement for sale of the vessel, or for any other reason, the
person ordering the repairs, supplies, or other necessaries
was without authority to bind the vessel therefor." But
even if this language be construed as dealing with anything more than the authority of a third person to represent the owner so as to create a lien, still when supplies
are ordered by the owner the statute does not attempt to
forbid a lien simply because the owner has contracted
with a mortgagee not to give any paramount security on
the ship. The most that such a contract can do is to postpone the claim of a party chargeable with notice of it to
that of the mortgagee.
The petitioner's lien was valid and on the other hand
there is equally little doubt that the mortgage was valid
as soon as it was executed and recorded, before the endorsement upon the ship's papers. This view seems to

MORSE DRYDOCK CO. v. NORTHERN STAR. 555
552

Opinion of the Court.

us plainly to be taken in Subsections C and D of the Act.
So the question more precisely stated is whether the
above-mentioned covenants postponed the lien to the
mortgage security, as they would seem to do on the facts
of the case but for the language of the statute that we
shall quote.
The statute, after requiring the instrument to be recorded in the office of the Collector of Customs of the
port of documentation, in order to be valid against persons not having actual notice, (Subsection C,) provides in
Subsection D, (a) that "A valid mortgage which . . ,
shall in addition have, in respect to such vessel and
as of the date of the compliance with all the provisions
of this subdivision, the preferred status given by the provisions of Subsection M, if-(1) the mortgage is indorsed
upon the vessel's documents in accordance with the provision of this section," with other conditions, (b) upon
compliance with which the mortgage is called a 'preferred mortgage.' Then follows in (c) a statement of
what shall be indorsed. By (d) the indorsement is to be
made by the collector of customs of the port of documentation or by the collector of any port in which the vessel
is found if so directed by the former, and no clearance is
to be issued to the vessel until such indorsement is made.
Subsection M gives priority to a preferred mortgage over
all claims against the vessel "except (1) preferred maritine liens and (2) expenses and fees allowed and costs
taxed, by the court." By (a) of the subsection "'preferred maritime lien' means (1) a lien arising prior in
time to the recording and indorsement of a preferred
mortgage in accordance with the provisions of this section." Obviously the statute taken literally may work
harshly if by any oversight or otherwise the collector does
not do his duty, and excellent reasons could be found for
charging the petitioner with notice of a document that
both was recorded and was kept with the ship's papers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
MoREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

271 U. S.

But the words of the statute seem to us too clear to be
escaped. The mortgage is made preferred only upon
compliance with all the conditions specified, one of which
is indorsement, and the maritime lien is preferred if it
arises before the recording and indorsement of the mortgage. We see no room for construction, and there is
nothing for the courts to do but to bow their heads and
obey.
Decree reversed.

The separate opinion of MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

The repairs for which petitioner claims a lien were
made at the vessel's home port, and there is nothing whatever to show any effort to bind her for their payment by
special agreement. Under such circumstances the general maritime law gives no lien. If the repair company
acquired one it arose from the provisions of the Act of
1920, and not otherwise. While Subsection P, § 30 of
that Act declares generally that any person furnishing
repairs shall have a lien on the vessel without allegation
or proof that credit was extended to her, Subsection R
of the same section expressly provides that "nothing in
this section shall be construed to confer a lien when the
furnisher knew, or by exercise of reasonable diligence
could have ascertained, that because of the terms of a
charter party, agreement for sale of the vessel, or for any
other reason, the person ordering the repairs, supplies,
or other necessaries was without authority to bind the
vessel therefor."
When the petitioner furnished the repairs at the home
port there was on the public record in the Collector's
office at that same port a duly-authenticated bill of sale
and a purchase money mortgage (a copy of the latter was
also on board), which disclosed an express agreement by
the owner "not to suffer nor permit to be continued any
lien, encumbrance or charge which has or might have pri-

PANAMA R. R. v. VASQUEZ.
Syllabus.

552

ority over this mortgage of the vessel." The petitioner
had easy access to these instruments and, by exercising
slight diligence, might have ascertained their contents.
They deprived the owner of both right and authority,
within the true intent of the statute, to create the lien
now claimed by the repair company. The purpose of this
enactment was to protect honest furnishers who exercise
diligence, and not to offer a wide-opened door for crooked
transactions.
The trial judge held that under the circumstances the
petitioner acquired no lien. I agree with him, and even
venture to think that the argument in support of his
conclusion cannot be vaporized by mere negation.
PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. VASQUEZ,

ADMINISTRATOR,

ETC.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.

No. 260.

Argued January 13, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. The clause in Jud. Code, §§ 24, 256, relating to causes arising
under the maritime law and "saving to suitors in all cases the
right to a common-law remedy where the common law is competent to give it," is not limited to rights recognized by the maritime law as exsting in 1789 when the clause was first adopted, but
includes rights brought into that law by subsequent legislation,
if of a kind to be readily enforced in actions in personam in the
course of the common law. P. 560.
2. State courts have jurisdiction concurrently with federal courts in
actions brought by seamen under § 20 of the Seamen's Act, as
amended by the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, to recover damages
for personal injuries. P. 561.
3. In providing that "Jurisdiction in such actions shall be under the
court of the district in which the defendant employer resides or in
which his principal office is located," the Act regulates venue and
does not deal with jurisdiction as between state and federal courts.
Id.
239 N. Y. 590, affirmed.

