KANSAS CITY RY. v. CENT. UNION TR. CO. 445
432

Syllabus.

outcome would be conclusive on the United States is
sufficiently shown by our answer to the first question.
Questionis answered as stated in this opinion,.

KANSAS CITY TERMINAL RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. CENTRAL UNION TRUST COMPANY
OF NEW YORK ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 265. Argued April 23, 1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.
1. Where the property of a railroad corporation, to be sold under
foreclosure, is so great as to render codperation between bondholders and stockholders essential in order to secure a bidder and
prevent undue sacrifice of their interests, they may enter into a
fair and open reorganization arrangement to that end. P. 453.
2. But such arrangements are invalid if they recognize and preserve
the interests of stockholders at the expense of the prior rights of
the secured or unsecured creditors of the corporation. Nor. Pac.
Ry. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482. Id.
3. A plan of reorganization, to bind the unsecured creditor, must
"give precedence to," i. e., recognize the superior importance of,
the creditor's claim over any interest of the stockholder in the
old company. P. 455.
4. Subject to the qualifications that the primary right of unsecured
creditors to the assets of the insolvent corporation, remaining
after lienholders are satisfied, must be adequately protected, and
that to each one of them must be given such opportunity as the
circumstances permit to secie the full enjoyment of this preference, a plan of reorganization which offers them securities of the
same grade as those offered the stockholders, but greater in
amount, will be fair, and bind the unsecured creditors, if, in the
opinion of the court, it tenders to such creditors all that could be
reasonably expected under all the existing circumstances. P. 455.
5. Where the same grade of securities is offered both to unsecured
creditors and to stockholders, the difference being that the stockholders are called upon to pay an assessment, or a relatively
greater assessment than that asked of creditors, it may never-

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

271 U. S.

theless be fair" and binding, if the court is of the opinion that
it tenders them all that could reasonably be expected under all
the existing circumstances; but the prior rights of creditors, as
above pointed out, must be recognized; and assessments, whenever demanded, must be adjusted to the purpose of according to
the creditor his full right of priority against the corporate assets,
as far as possible in the existing circumstances. P. 456.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals on an appeal from a decree of the District Court
in a railway foreclosure suit. See 294 Fed. 32.
Mr. Samuel W. Sawyer, with whom Messrs. Edward J.
White, N. H. Loomis, Bruce Scott, and GardinerLathrop
were on the brief, for appellants.
The ultimate question is whether the general creditor is
entitled to retain in the new corporation his priority over
the old stockholder, or must be content with what the
chancellor may find to be "fair" treatment; whether his
rights and status are to be determined according to a definite principle, or according to the personal conceptions of
individual judges.
The case of NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S.
482, recognizes the practical necessity of permitting stockholders to participate in a; railroad re-organization, provided the unsecured creditors are also permitted to
participate, and provided the priority of creditors over
stockholders is not impaired. The court says that the
creditor's interest "can be preserved by the issuance on
equitable terms of income bonds or preferred stock."
While the court does not say that the method suggested
is the only method, it is implied that either the method
suggested or some substantial equivalent is essential.
This Court, moreover, in Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville
By. Co., 174 U. S. 674, which preceded the Boyd Case,
plainly indicated that, if any interest of the mortgagor is
preserved after foreclosure, the "prior rights" of general
creditors must necessarily be secured and preserved and

KANSAS CITY RY. v. CENT. UNION TR. CO. 447
445

Argument for Appellants.

"any arrangements of the parties by which the subordinate rights and interests of the stockholders are attempted
to be secured at the expense of the prior rights of either
class of creditors, comes within judicial denunciation."
The suggestion of the court in the Boyd Case that
general creditors need not be paid in cash is really a
relaxation of the general principle of equity that the
property of a corporation in the hands of a voluntary
transferee, or of the mortgagor purchasing at its own
sale, is still subject to all claims existing against it before
the transfer. This indulgence to the reorganizer grows
out of the practical impossibility of selling railroad properties for cash, the public interest in their successful
financing and operation, and the practical need of securing co-operation, instead of conflict, between the bondholder and the stockholder. It is analogous to the judicial
rules regarding preferential claims for operating expenses
and the issuance of receiver's certificates to. insure continued operation of railroads. Like them, it must not be
extended beyond the reason for its existence, nor be
allowed to degenerate into a mere phrase to be applied
according to the individual whim of the chancellor. The
Boyd Case emphatically declared that the question
whether any provision must be made for the creditor
must be determined by a " fixed principle." Equally, the
question what provision must be made for the creditor
must be determined by a fixed principle. The only fixed
principle which is consonant with the spirit of the Boyd
Case is suggested by the language of that case-the issuance of securities to the general creditor which will preserve the normal relation between him and the stockholder of the old company. It is difficult, if not impossible, to formulate any other fixed principle which
is not purely arbitrary. This principle has the advantage
of enabling re-organization managers to know what they
can do and creditors to know what their rights are.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

271 U. S.

It is thoroughly practical. It was successfully applied
as early as 1882 in the Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw reorganization (9 Fed. 738) and has aided two of the largest and most successful railroad reorganizations of recent
years-the Missouri Pacific (280 Fed. 38) and the Rock
Island (284 Fed. 945).
The only offers to creditors which have been upheld by
any of the Circuit Courts of Appeals since the Boyd Case
upon direct attack are the offers in the Missouri Pacific
Case and the Rock Island Case, both of which gave
the creditor preferred stock to the full amount of his
claim.
These conclusions require negative answers to the questions certified.
See Ndrthern Pacific By. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482;
KansasCity Sou. Ry. Ca. v. GuardianTrust Co., 240 U. S.
166; Pierce v. United States, 255 U. S. 398; C. R. I. & P.
R. Co. v. Howard, 7 Wall. 392; Louisville Trust Co. v.
Lbuisville R. Co., 174 U. S. 674; Canada Sou. Ry Co. v.
Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527; Hancock v. Toledo R. Co., 9
Fed. 738; Paton v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., 85 Fed. 838;
Georgia Ry. Co. v. Paul, 93 Fed. 878; Farmers L. & T.
Co. v. M. I. & N. Ry. Co., 21 Fed. 264; C. R. & C. R. Co.
v. Evans, 66 Fed. 809; St. Louis Trust Co. v. Des Moines
Py. Co., 101 Fed. 632; FarmersL. & T. Co. v. Louisville
Ry. Co., 103 Fed. 110; Wenger v. Chicago R. Co., 114
Fed. 34; Central R. Co. v. FarmersL. & T. Co., 114 Fed.
263; Keech v. Stowe-Fuller Co., 205 Fed. 887; Western
Union Co. v. U. S. & Mexican Trust Co., 221 Fed. 545;
Howard v. Maxwell Motor Co., 269 Fed. 292; Walsh
Timber Co. v. Missouri Pac. Ry. Co., 280 Fed. 38; Phipps
v. C. R. 1. & P. Ry. Co., 284 Fed. 945, 261 U. S. 611, 262
U. S. 762; Mountain States Power Co. v. JordanLumber
Co., 293 Fed. 502; St. Louis, S. F. Ry. Co. v. McElvain,
253 Fed. 123; North Amer. Co. v. St. Louis & S. F. R. Co.,
288 Fed. 612; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Missouri Pac. Ry.

KANSAS CITY RY. v. CENT. UNION TR. CO. 449
445

Argument for Appellees.

Co., 238 Fed. 812; Wabash Ry. Co. v. Marshall, 224 Mich.
593; Fontain v. Ravenel, 17 How. 369; Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107.
Mr. Joseph M. Bryson, with whom Messrs. Albert
Rathbone, Arthur H. Van Brunt, Nicholas Kelley, Edward Cornell, Edward C. Eliot, H. C. McCollom, Edward H. Blanc, Allen C. Orrick, W. W. Miller, Charles W.
Bates; George H. Williams, Roberts Walker, Perry D.
Trafford, and George C. Hitchcock were on the brief,
for appellees.
The test of a fair and reasonable offer under the doctrine of the Boyd Case is whether the value of the offer
made to creditors adequately represents, in the light of
all the facts in the case, their proportionate interest in
the reorganized property. The character of the securities
offered to creditors is immaterial. Louisville Trust Co.
v. Louisville etc. Ry., 174 U. S. 674; Nor. Pac. Ry. v.
Boyd, 228 U. S. 482; Kansas City Sou. Ry. v. Guardian
Trust Co., 240 U. S. 166; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
United States, 221 Fed. 545; Phipps v. C. R. I. & P. Ry.,
284 Fed. 945; Mountain States Power Co. v. JordanLumber Co., 293 Fed. 502; Howard v. Maxwell Motor Co.,
269 Fed. 292; Walsh Tie & Timber Co. v. Missouri
Pac. Ry., 280 Fed. 38; Wabash Ry. v. Marshall, 224
Mich. 593.
There is no logical basis for the contention that the
character of the securities offered to creditors is the test
of a fair offer. Walsh Tie & Timber Co. v. Missouri Pac.
Ry., supra.
There is no basis in the decisions or in the principles
of equity for the contention that this Court should establish a fixed formula by which all cases of this nature can
be decided. Howard v. Maxwell Motor Co., supra:
Mountain States Power Co. v. Jordan Lumber Co.,
supra.
9542'--16-20

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

271 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This cause is here on certificate from the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit. Jud. Code
ยง 239. The relevant facts and the submitted questions
follow.
In a proceeding by creditors, the United States District
Court, Eastern District of Missouri, appointed a receiver
for the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Company.
Appellees asked foreclosure of liens upon the whole property, and procured an order of sale. According to a plan
for purchase and reorganization, with definite offers to
lien creditors, unsecured creditors and stockholders, Blumenthal and another bid in the assets and then assigned
the rights so acquired to the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Company, a newly-organized Missouri corporation.
Pending entry of the final decree, appellants asserted
preferential rights. These were denied, and they were
held to be unsecured contract creditors. Kansas City
Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., 294 Fed. 32.
Thereupon, they challenged the reorganization plan as
unfair to them and unduly preferential to stockholders
of the insolvent corporation. The trial court overruled
their objection; the matter went to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and it has asked for instruction.
The reorganization scheme required the issuance of four
classes of securities by the new company(1) Prior lien mortgage bonds (authorized, $250,000,000);
(2) Cumulative adjustment, or income, bonds (authorized, $100,000,000), secured by mortgage as to principal;
(3) Preferred stock (authorized, $200,000,000);
(4) Common stock, without par value (authorized,
2,500,000 shares).
Specified amounts of each of these were reserved for
future use by the new company. Some of the prior lien

KANSAS CITY RY. v. CENT. UNION TR. CO. 451
445

Opinion of the Court.

bonds bore interest at four, some at five and some at six
per cent.
New securites were offered to the holders of seventeen
separate issues of outstanding.bonds of the old company
and its various subsidiaries, secured by mortgage, and one
issue of notes, secured by the pledge of mortgage bonds.
In some cases, but not all, cash was offered to holders of
these secured claims in addition to the new securities.
Always the par amount of the new securites offered (taking the new non-par-value common stock at $100 per
share) plus the cash offered, if any, equalled, but never
exceeded, the principal amount of the old securities, in
respect of which the offer was made, plus interest to January 1, 1922.
Of these eighteen outstanding issues, five were offered
new prior lien bonds and cash; one was offered new prior
lien bonds; five were offered new prior lien bonds and new
adjustment bonds; three were offered new prior lien
bonds, new adjustment bonds and new preferred stock;
one was offered new adjustment bonds and new preferred
stock; three were offered new adjustment bonds, new preferred stock and new common stock.
In all cases the new prior lien bonds and the new adjustment bonds (whether offered to secured creditors, unsecured creditors or stockholders) were to bear interest from
January 1, 1922.
As to stockholders and unsecured creditors, it was provided-(1) Preferred stockholders might receive $14 in
prior lien bonds (bearing six per cent.,) $6 in adjustment
bonds and one share of common stock in the new company, upon payment of $20 for each $100 share of old
stock. (2) Common stockholders might receive $17.50
in six per cent. prior lien mortgage bonds, $7.50 in adjust,
ment bonds and one share of common stock, upon payment of $25 for each $100 share of old stock. (3) Tnsecured creditors were given the choice of two plans:

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

(a) one-third of a share of preferred stock, $100 par value,
and two-thirds of a share of common stock without par
value, for each $100 of their claims, plus interest to January 1, 1922, (whereas the receiver was appointed and
took possession of the property September 27, 1915, foreclosure decree was entered June 30, 1922, offer to creditors
was dated July 15, 1922, foreclosure sale was had December 13, 1922, order confirming the sale was entered February 9, 1923, and order approving the master's deed conveying the property to the new company was entered on
March 10, 1923); (b) $14 in prior lien mortgage six per
cent. bonds, $6 in adjustment mortgage bonds and one
share of common stock, upon payment of $18 for each $100
of their claims.
Appellants maintained below that Northern Pacific
Railway Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482, and Louisville Trust
Co. v. Louisville Railway Co., 174 U. S. 674, require that
an offer in a reorganization plan, in order to be fair and
binding upon him, must preserve "to the creditor his
relative priority over the stockholder. It is not sufficient
that he should get a little more than the stockholder.
I=is entire claim must take precedence over any part of
the interest of a stockholder. It is not sufficient that he
be offered securities of the same grade as the stockholder
but a trifle more in amount, or that the stockholder's
right to participate be conditioned upon the payment of
an assessment."
The questions"I. Is a plan of reorganization of a railway company
sufficient as to unsecured creditors and binding upon
them which does not give precedence to the entire claim
of the creditor over any part or interest of a stockholder
in the old company?
"II.
Is such a plan fair and binding upon such creditors even though they be offered securities of the same
grade as the stockholders, the difference being only in the

KANSAS CITY RY. v. CENT. UNION TR. CO. 453
445

Opinion of the Court.

greater amount offered the creditors, provided the court
shall be of the opinion that the offer tenders to such creditors all that could reasonably be expected under all of
the existing circumstances?
"III. Is such offer as to such creditors fair and binding if it consists only of the same grade of securities as
offered the stockholders, the difference being that the
right of the stockholders to participate is conditioned
upon the payment of an assessment or the payment of a
relatively greater assessment than that asked of such
creditors, provided the court shall be of the opinion that
the offer tenders to such creditor all that could reasonably
be expected under all of the existing circumstances?"
These questions lack precision, and the accompanying
statement of facts fails to reveal the detail of the situation
with desirable clearness. There is nothing to show the
amount or character of the insolvent company's outstanding securities, or the amount of the unsecured indebtedness, or the probable value of the equity in the
property beyond secured debts, or the amount of money
deemed necessary to insure successful operation of the
new company. The questions, therefore, must be defined
and answered with certain qualifications.
Chicago, etc., Railroad Co. v. Howard, 7 Wall. 392;
Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville Railway Co., 174 U. S.
674; and Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S.
482, gave much consideration to the general principles
which must control the present cause. These were applied in Kansas City, etc., Railway Co. v. Guardian Trust
Co., 240 U. S. 166, and Pierce v. United States, 255
U. S. 398.
We accept those opinions as authoritative; and it now
may be announced as settled doctrine, that where the
value of corporate property to be sold under foreclosure
is so great as to render cobperation between bondholders
and stockholders essential in order to secure a bidder and

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

prevent undue sacrifice of their interests, they may enter
into a fair and open arrangement to that end. But "no
such proceedings can be rightfully carried to consummation which recognize and preserve any interest in the
stockholders without also recognizing and preserving the
interests, not merely of the mortgagee, but of every creditor of the corporation. In other words, if the bondholder
wishes to foreclose and exclude inferior lienholders or
general unsecured creditors and stockholders he may do
so, but a foreclosure which attempts to preserve any interest or right of the mortgagor in the property after the
sale must necessarily secure and preserve the prior rights
of general creditors thereof. This is based upon the familiar rule that the stockholder's interest in the property
is subordinate to the rights of creditors; first of secured
and then of unsecured creditors. And any arrangement
of the parties by which the subordinate rights and interests of the stockholders are attempted to be secured at the
expense of the prior rights of either class of creditors
comes within judicial denuciation." Louisville Trust Co.
v. Louisville Railway Co., pp. 683, 684.
This doctrine is the "fixed principle" according to which
Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Boyd (p. 507,) declares
the character of reorganization agreements must be determined; and to it there should be rigid adherence. But, as
that opinion states, this does not require the impossible
and make it necessary always to pay unsecured creditors
in cash before stockholders may retain any interest whatever in the reorganized company. By way of illustration
it further pointed out, that such creditors can be protected
"by the issuance, on equitable terms, of income bonds or
preferred stock." And we now add that, when necessary.
they may be protected through other arrangements which
distinctly recognize their equitable right to be preferred
to stockholders against the full value of all property belonging to the debtor corporation, and afford each of them

KANSAS CITY RY. v. CENT. UNION TR. CO. 455
445

Opinion of the Court.

fair opportunity, measured by the existing circumstances,
to avail himself of this right.
Unsecured creditors of insolvent corporations are entitled to the benefit of the values which remain after lienholders are satisfied, whether this is present or prospective,
for dividends or only for purposes of control. But reasonable adjustments should be encouraged. Practically, it is
impossible to sell the property of a great railroad for cash;
and, generally, the interests of all parties, including the
public, are best served by co~peration between bondholders and stockholders. If creditors decline a fair offer based
upon the principles above stated, they are left to protect
themselves. After such refusal they cannot attack the
reorganization in a court of equity. Northern Pacific
Railway Co. v. Boyd, p. 508.
Question I, if interpreted strictly and according to the
ordinary meaning of the words employed, must be answered in the negative. We assume that to " give precedence" implies recognition of superior importance. As
above stated, to the extent of their debts creditors are
entitled to priority over stockholders against all the property of an insolvent corporation. But it does not follow
that in every reorganization the securities offered to general creditors must be superior in rank or grade to any
which stockholders may obtain. It is not impossible to
accord to the creditor his superior rights in other ways.
Generally, additional funds will be essential to the success
of the undertaking, and it may be impossible to obtain
them unless stockholders are permitted to contribute and
retain an interest sufficiently valuable to move them.
In such or similar cases the chancellor may exercise an
informed discretion concerning the practical adjustment
of the several rights.
Question II is answered in the affirmative, with the
qualifications which follow. The primary right of unsecured creditors to the assets of an insolvent corporation

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Appellants.

271 U. S.

remaining after lienholders are satisfied, must be adequately protected; and to each one of them there must be
given such opportunity as the circumstances permit to
secure the full enjoyment of this preference.
Question III is also answered in the affirmative, subject
to the following qualification. No offer is fair which does
not recognize the prior rights of creditors, as above pointed
out; but circumstances may justify an offer of different
amounts of the same grade of securities to both creditors
and stockholders. Whenever assessments are demanded,
they must be adjusted with the purpose of according to
the creditor his full right of priority against the corporate
assets, so far as possible in the existing circumstances.
HOME FURNITURE COMPANY ET AL. V. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 324. Argued and submitted May 6,1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, made upon petition of two railroad companies, permitting the one to acquire control of the other by stock ownership and leases, with the object
of cordinating and improving their operation in connection with
another railroad system, is an order relating to transportation,
within the meaning of the Act of October 22, 1913; and therefore
a suit to set the order aside cannot be brought in a district where
neither of the petitioning companies resides. P. 459.
2 Fed. (2d) 765, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court sustaining
a plea for the dismissal of a suit to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, upon the ground
that it was in the wrong venue.

Messrs. Joseph U. Sweeney and Edward C. Wade, Jr.,
for appellants, submitted.

