FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
577

583

Statement of the Case.

rights; and, considering the true construction of the Act,
no ground appears which would justify an injunction to
prevent them from proceeding with its orderly enforcement.
Affirmed.
FROST & FROST TRUCKING CO. v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 828. Argued April 21, 22, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. Assuming that the use of its highways by private carriers for
hire is a privilege which the State may deny, it can not constitutionally affix to that privilege the unconstitutional condition precedent that the carrier shall assume against his will the burdens and
duties of a common carrier. P. 592.
2. Under the Auto Stage and Truck Transportation Act of California, as amended in 1919, and as construed and applied by the
state supreme court in this case, private carriers by automobile
for hire can not operate over the state highways between fixed
termini without having first secured from the Railroad Commission a certificate of public convenience and necessity, and therein
they not merely become subject to regulations appropriate to
private carriers but submit themselves to the condition of becoming common carriers and of being regulated as such by the Commission. Held violative of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 591.
70 Cal. Dec. 457, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California which sustained an order of the Railroad Commission
directing the plaintiffs in error to suspend operations
under a single private contract for the transportation of
fruit over public highways, between fixed termini, unless
and until they should secure from the Commission a certificate that public convenience and necessity required the
resumption or continuance thereof.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

271 U. S.

Mr. Max Theen, with whom Messrs. H. H. Sanborn,
Delancey C. Smith, Frank R. Devlin, Douglas Brookman, and Edwin C. Blanchard were on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
The Supreme Court of California conceded the well
established rule that "the State has no power by mere
legislative flat, or even by constitutional enactment, to
transmute a. private utility into a public utility, or a private carrier into a public carrier," but the same result is
to be accomplished by indirection through a condition to
the effect that, if the private operator uses the public
highways, it can be only "upon the condition that you
in turn shall dedicate the property used by you in such
business to the public use of public transportation."
The decision in this case, 70 Cal. Dec. 457, expressly
concedes that the Act cannot properly be construed to
be a statute regulating the use of the highways. There
is no general rule to the effect that the State can prevent
the use of its highways by private carriers. Davis v.
Mayor of New York, 14 N. Y. 506; Macomber v. Nichols,
34 Mich. 212. To protect the public in the use of the
highways, there was established, as an exception to the
general rule, the proposition that, as to common carriers,
the State might prevent -the use of the public highways
or, if it was willing that they should be used by such
common carriers, it might establish such reasonable conditions as might be in the public interest. This exception
has never been extended to private carriers using the
highways in the pursuit of their private business. One
of the fundamental errors in the decision is that it undertakes to treat the exception as though it were, in fact, the
general rule. Both the rule and the exception were accurately stated in Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307.
This Court in that case very carefully limited the exception to cases of common carriers.
The effect of this decision, of course, is to hold that in
the State of California it is no longer possible for any

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
583

585

Argument for Defendant in Error.

private citizen to operate as a private carrier under a
private contract over the public highways between fixed
termini or over a regular route. See Michigan Pub. Util.
Comm. v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570; Producers Trans. Co. v.
Railroad Comm., 251 U. S. 228; Wolf Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522; Davis v. Metcalf, 131
Wash. 141; State v. Nelson, 65 Utah 457. See also
Hissem v. Guran & Meyers, 112 Oh. St. 59.
The Act denies the equal protection of the laws in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The only possible difference between two trucks may be that one is
operated in the private business of the operator in the
transportation of his own goods, while the other is operated in the private business of the operator in the transportation of the neighbors' goods for pay. In each case,
the highway is being used for the private business of the
operator. There is no "natural, inherent or constitutional distinction" or ground of classification betwen these
two operations, and if the Frosts are compelled to discontinue the operation of their private business, while at the
same time the other truck operator is permitted to continue his private business over the public highways, we
have a clear case of a denial of the equal protection of the
laws. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. R. v. Matthews, 174 U. S.
96; Sou. Ry. Co. v. Green, 216 U. S. 400; Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56; Truax v. Corrigan,257
U. S. 312; Airway Elec. App. Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71;
FranchiseMot. Frt.Ass'n. v. Seavey, 69 Cal. Dec. 473.
Mr. Carl I. Wheat for defendant in error.
There is no question here of arbitrary discrimination
against plaintiffs in error, for they have not as yet applied for a certificate to cover operations of the nature
proposed by them, and the sole ruling of the Railroad
Commission was that they should not so operate unless
and until they had secured such a certificate. If, upon

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

271 U. S.

proper application, the Railroad Commission had arbitrarily denied them the certificate in question, a totally
different problem would be presented to this Court. Nor
are we in this case concerned with any of the other provisions of the statute. Some may and some may not be
applicable to such carriers. The sole question here is
whether or not a State may require of one who desires to
use its public highways as the chief and paramount situs
of his private haulage business to come to some state
agency and obtain a certificate so to do. While the public highways of the State are open and free to all persons
for traverse and communication at all times, nevertheless,
the State may properly impose reasonable conditions and
regulations upon any particular individuals who desire to
use such publicly constructed and maintained highways
as the chief situs of their business of transporting persons
or property thereover as a business for hire, whether such
use be in the nature of common carriage or otherwise.
While this is unquestionably a case of first impression, we
believe that the reasoning of the state court is sustainable
upon grounds both of law and logic.
Plaintiffs in error present for consideration the following purported dilemna. Say they, in effect: (1) If they
apply for a certificate under this statute and, after due
notice, hearing, opportunity to present testimony, and
formal findings, it is denied, they are deprived of the
right (which they claim to be inviolate) of transporting
property in their trucks over the public highways for hire
under private contracts; whereas, (2) if they apply for
a certificate and it is granted, they will be subjected to
regulations which, say they, would, in effect, force them
into the business of common carriage. Both of these
results they urge to be unconstitutional. This second
proposition we believe has already been met. There has
been no attempt here, either by Legislature or Commission, to make these persons unwillingly assume the status

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
5&3

587

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of common carriers. Most of the cases cited for plaintiffs
go off on the point that there has been an attempt to do
this; and throughout their brief there appear statements
which seem to suggest that this was attempted here. We
submit that the most cursory reading of the decision
of the state court discloses that nothing could be farther
from the fact. The regulation sought to be imposed upon
them is not as common carriers, but as carriers for hire
by private contract. Under this statute all private carriers may continue to exist as private carriers.
Plaintiffs have been at great pains to analyze certain
provisions of the California Act which they claim can
logically be applied only to common carriers. We submit that the applicability of these provisions is not now
before this Court for consideration or determination. The
portion of this statute here involved, is that which requires every "transportation company" to secure a certificate of public convenience and necessity before operating trucks for hire over the public highways. If there be
a logical or inherent distinction in kind the classification
is sustainable. There is a difference in kind between the
man who, as a mere incident to his business, transports
his own property over the highways, and the man who
makes of those highways the main instrumentality of his
hauling business. No person can be said to have a vested
right to make use of the public highways as the situs of
his business. That is a privilege to which "no one is
entitled as of right." See decisions cited in the decision
of the court below, particularly Packard v. Banton, 264
U. S. 140, 144.
In the interest of the public at large, which at enormous expense builds and maintains these highways, it
has been found essential to impose regulations upon those
who use them. First came the licensing of automobiles
and their operators, and the enactment of general safety
and weight provisions. These Acts have been broadly

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

271 U. S.

sustained in every State. But as the use of the automobile developed-as the life of whole communities
was transformed by this new mode of locomotion which
has made its way into every hamlet-as the network of
broad, well-built highways rapidly extended itself from
town to town and far out into the farming areas,-there
grew up a new and potent form of business,-the transportation of persons and property by automobile. The
first result of this development was that most of the
short-line steam and electric railroads of the country
went into bankruptcy. The second was that an insistent
demand arose for some regulation. In California this
demand was so strong that the California Supreme
Court, upon petition by the short-line railroads of the
State, ordered the Commission to assume jurisdiction
over automotive carriers under a provision of the state
Constitution adopted a quarter of a century before automobiles were invented. The next year, again at the behest of the short-line railroads, the Legislature passed
a comprehensive statute providing for the regulation of
"transportation companies" by automobile, including in
that term all common carriers of persons or property
between fixed termini or over regular routes. Realizing
that its former Act was inadequate in scope, and to
bring under reasonable regulation the increasing number
of persons who had not held themselves out as common
carriers but who nevertheless were using the public highways as the main situs,--indeed as the only situs of their
business of hauling for hire,-the legislature amended the
statute which had formerly covered common carriers
alone to bring such private carriers under regulation.
And this was done in aid of the commonweal-in order
that all who use these public highways as a business for
hire between fixed termini or over regular routes might
be subjected to a proper public control, not for the purpose of suppressing competition but for the purpose of

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
583

589

Opinion of the Court.

upholding the public interest in proper and continuous
service, and the proper exercise of the special privilege
of using the public highways as a place of business.
This whole claim of "private contract" rights is
illusory. In the present instance there was but one such
contract; but in the Holmes Case, 70 Cal. Dec. 752, there
were twenty-three, and we suppose that under plaintiff's
theory there might well be a thousand.
MR. JusTIcE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the constitutional validity of the
Auto Stage and Truck Transportation Act of California,
c. 213, Statutes of California, 1917, p. 330, as construed
and applied to plaintiffs in error by the state supreme
court. The specific challenge is that, as so construed and
applied, it takes their property for public use without just
compensation, deprives them of their property without
due process of law, and denies them the equal protection
of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the federal Constitution. The act provides for the
supervision and regulation of transportation for compensation over public highways by automobiles, auto
trucks, etc., by the railroad commission. The term
"transportation company" is defined to mean a common
carrier for compensation over any public highway between fixed termini or over a regular route. By § 3, no
corporation or person is permitted to operate any automobile, auto truck, etc., "for the transportation of persons
or property as a common carrier for compensation on any
public highway in this state between any fixed termini
. . . unless a permit has first been secured as herein
provided." Permits are issued upon application by the incorporated city or town, city and county, or county within
or through which the applicant intends to operate. By
§ 4, the railroad commission is empowered to supervise

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and regulate such transportation companies and to fix
their rates, fares, charges, classifications, rules and regulations, and, generally, to regulate them in all matters affecting their relationship with the traveling and shipping
public. Section 5 requires, in addition to the permit, that
the applicant must obtain from the railroad commission a
certificate declaring that public convenience and necessity
require the exercise of such right or privilege; and it provides that the commission may attach to the exercise of
the rights granted such terms and conditions as in its
judgment the public convenience and necessity may require. Operation under a permit without such certificate
is prohibited. In 1919, the act was amended, Statutes
1919, c. 280, p. 457, so as to bring under the regulative
control of the commission automotive carriers of persons
or property operating under private contracts of carriage;
and the term "transportation company" was enlarged so
as to include such a carrier. It was further provided that
no such transportation company-shall operate for compensation over the highways without first having secured
from the commission a certificate of public convenience
and necessity so to do.
Plaintiffs in error were engaged under a single private
contract in transporting, for stipulated compensation,
citrous fruit over the public highways between fixed termini. They were brought before the commission charged
witfr violating the act, for the reason that they had not
secured from the commission a certificate of public convenience and necessity. The commission, while agreeing
that plaintiffs in error were, in fact, private carriers, held
that they were subject to the provisions of the act and directed them to suspend their operations under their contract unless and until they should secure a certificate that
public convenience and necessity required the resumption
or continuance thereof. The commission's order was upheld by the State supreme court. 70 Cal. Dec. 457.

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
583

591

Opinion of the Court.

On behalf of plaintiffs in error the contention is that,
in its application to private carriers, the act has the effect
of transforming them into public carriers by legislative
fiat. Upon the other side it is said that the sole purpose
of the legislation "is to impress upon such private carriers certain regulations so long as they desire to use the
publicly built and owned highways as the chief situs of
their business of hauling goods for compensation," and
that "they are not and cannot be, forced, directly or
indirectly, to become common carriers."
It is unnecessary to inquire which view is correct, since
the act has been authoritatively construed by the state
supreme court. That court, while saying that the state
was without power, by mere legislative fiat or even by
constitutional enactment, to transmute a private carrier
into a public carrier, declared that the state had the power
to grant or altogether withhold from its citizens the
privilege of using its public highways for the purpose of
transacting private business thereon; and that, therefore,
the legislature might grant the right on such conditions
as it saw fit to impose. In the light of this general statement of principle, it was held that the effect of the transportation act is to offer a special privilege of using the
public highways to the private carrier for compensation
upon condition that he shall dedicate his property to the
quasi-public use of public transportation; that the private
carrier is not obliged to submit himself to the condition,
but, if he does not, he is not entitled to the privilege of
using the highways.
It is very clear that the act, as thus applied, is in no
real sense a regulation of the use of the public highways.
It is a regulation of the business of those who are engaged
in using them. Its primary purpose evidently is to protect the business of those who are common carriers in fact
by controlling competitive conditions. Protection or conservation of the highways is not involved. This, in effect,

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

is the view of the court below plainly expressed. 70 Cal.
Dec. pp. 464-465, 466.
Thus, it will be seen that, under the act as construed by
the state court, whose construction is binding upon us, a
private carrier may avail himself of the use of the highways only upon condition that he dedicate his property
to the business of public transportation and subject himself to all the duties and burdens imposed by the act upon
common carriers. In other words, the case presented is
ilot that of a private carrier who, in order to have the
privilege of using the highways, is required merely to
secure a certificate of public convenience and become subject to regulations appropriate to that kind of a carrier;
but it is that of a private carrier who, in order to enjoy the
use of the highways, must submit to the condition of becoming a common carrier and of being regulated as such
by the railroad commission. The certificate of public
convenience, required by § 5, is exacted of a common carrier and is purely incidental to that status. The requirement does not apply to a private carrier qua private carrier, but to him only in his imposed statutory character of
common carrier. Apart from that signification, so far as
he is concerned, it does not exist.
That, consistently with the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, a private carrier cannot be converted against his will into a common carrier by mere
legislative command, is a rule not open to doubt and is
not brought into question here. It was expressly so decided in Michigan Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570,
577-578. See also, Hissem v. Guran, 112 0. S. 59; State
v. Nelson, 65 Utah- 457, 462. The naked question which
we have to determine, therefore, is whether the state may
bring about the same result by imposing the unconstitutional requirement as a condition precedent to the enjoyment of a privilege, which, without so deciding, we shall
assume to be within the power of the state altogether to

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
583

593

Opinion of the Court.

withhold if it sees fit to do so. Upon the answer to this
question, the constitutionality of the statute now under
review will depend.
There is involved in the inquiry not a single power, but
two distinct powers. One of these-the power to prohibit
the use of the public highways in proper cases-the state
possesses; and the other-the power to compel a private
carrier to assume against his will the duties and burdens
of a common carrier-the state does not possess. It is
clear that any attempt to exert the latter, separately and
substantively, must fall before the paramount authority of
the Constitution. May it stand in the conditional form
in which it is here made? If so, constitutional guaranties,
so carefully safeguarded against direct assault, are open
to destruction by the indirect but no less effective process
of requiring a surrender, which, though, in form voluntary, in fact lacks none of the elements of compulsion.
Having regard to form alone, the act here is an offer to
the private carrier of a privilege, which the state may
grant or deny, upon a condition, which the carrier is free
to accept or reject. In reality, the carrier is given no
choice, except a choice between the rock and the whirlpool,-an option to forego a privilege which may be vital
to his livelihood or submit to a requirement which may
constitute an intolerable burden.
It would be a palpable incongruity to strike down an
act of state legislation which, by words of express divestment, seeks to strip the citizen of rights guaranteed by
the federal Constitution, but to uphold an act by which
the same result is accomplished under the guise of a surrender of a right in exchange for a valuable privilege
which the state threatens otherwise to withhold. It is
not necessary to challenge the proposition that, as a general rule, the state, having power to deny a privilege altogether, may grant it upon such conditions as it sees fit to
impose. But the power of the state in that respect is not
!t54*_'-'26---38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

unlimited; and one of the limitations is that it may not
impose conditions which require the relinquishment of
constitutional rights. If the state may compel the surrender of one constitutional right as a condition of its
favor, it may, in like manner, compel a surrender of all.
It is inconceivable that guaranties embedded in the Constitution of the United States may thus be manipulated
out of existence.
The prior decisions of this court amply justify this
conclusion. In Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, 181, the rule
was stated to be that the state, having the power to exclude foreign corporations from its limits, may admit
them upon such terms and conditions as the state may
think proper to impose. But in Insurance Company v.
Morse, 20 Wall. 445, 456, it was said that this sweeping
language must be understood with reference to the facts
of that case; and that it could not be extended to include
conditions repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States. In Barronv. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186, 197,
this limitation was expressly reaffirmed. Mr. Justice
Blatchford, speaking for the court, said (p. 200):
"The question as to the right of a state to impose upon
a corporation engaged in interstate commerce the duty
of obtaining a permit from the state, as a condition of its
right to carry on such commerce, is a question which it is
not necessary to decide in this case. In all the cases in
which this court has considered the subject of the granting
by a state to a foreign corporation of its consent to the
transaction of business in the state, it has uniformly asserted that no conditions can be imposed by the state
which are repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States. La Fayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How.
404, 407; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410, 415; Ins. Co. v.
Morse, 20 Wall. 445, 456; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S.350,
356; Phila.Fire Assn. v. New York, 119 U. S. 110, 120."
In Southern Pacific Company v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202,
207, there was under consideration a Texas statute re-

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
583

595

Opinion of the Court.

quiring a foreign corporation desiring to do business in
the state, to agree that it would not remove any suit from
a court of the state into the circuit court of the United
States. This court held the statute invalid, saying:
"But that statute, requiring the corporation, as a condition precedent to obtaining a permit to do business
within the State, to surrender a right and privilege secured to it by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, was unconstitutional and void, and could give no
validity or effect to any agreement or action of the corporation in obedience to its provisions."
After the Denton Case, came Security Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246. That decision purported to
follow the case of Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., 94 U. S.
535, and to differentiate Barron v. Burnside, supra; and
it was thought to have materially modified the rule laid
down in the Morse, Burnside and Denton cases. But
however this may be, both the Preuitt and Doyle cases
have been quite recently overruled, and the views of the
minority therein expressed declared to be now the law of
this court. Terral v. Burke Constr. Co., 257 U. S. 529,
533. In the light of this declaration, these dissenting
views become pertinent and controlling. In the Doyle
Case, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the minority, said
(pp. 543, 544):
"Though a State may have the power, if it sees fit to
subject its citizens to the inconvenience, of prohibiting all
foreign corporations from transacting business within its
jurisdiction, it has no power to impose unconstitutional
conditions upon their doing so. Total prohibition may
produce suffering, and may manifest a spirit of unfriendliness towards sister States; but prohibition, except upon
conditions derogatory to the jurisdiction and sovereignty
of the United States, is mischievous, and productive of
hostility and disloyalty to the general government. If a

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

State is unwise enough to legislate the one, it has no constitutional power to legislate the other.
"The whole thing, however free from intentional disloyalty, is derogatory to that mutual comity and respect
which ought to prevail between the State and general
governments, and ought to meet the condemnation of the
courts whenever brought within their proper cognizance."
In the Prewitt Case, Mr. Justice Day, dissenting, said
(pp. 267-269):
-"In the opinion of the court in this case the doctrine
that a corporation cannot be permitted to be deprived of
its right to do business because of the assertion of a Federal right is said not to be denied, because the right of a
foreign corporation to do business in a State is not secured
or guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. Conceding
the soundness of this general proposition, it by no means
follows that a foreign corporation may be excluded solely
because it exercises a right secured by the Federal Constitution. For, conceding the right of a State to exclude
foreign corporations, we must not overlook the limitation
upon that right, now equally well settled in the jurisprudence of this court, that the right to do business cannot be
made to depend upon the surrender of a right created and
guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. If this were
otherwise, the State would be permitted to destroy a right
created and protected by the Federal Constitution under
the guise of exercising a privilege belonging to the State,
and, as we have pointed out, the State might thus deprive
every foreign corporation of the right to do business
within its borders, except upon the condition that it
strip itself of the protection given it by the Federal
Constitution. . .
While we concede the right of a State to exclude foreign corporations from doing business within its
borders for reasons not destructive of Federal rights, we
deny that the right can be made to depend upon the sur-

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
583

597

Opinion of the Court.

render of the protection of the Federal Constitution, which
secures to alien citizens the right to resort to the courts of
the United States.
"In the cases decided in this court subsequently to
Barron v. Burnside, while the general proposition is
affirmed that a State may prescribe conditions upon which
a foreign corporation may do business within its borders,
in no one of them is it asserted that the State may exclude
or expel such corporations because they insist upon the
exercise of a right created by the Federal Constitution.
On the contrary, this court has repeatedly said that such
right of exclusion was qualified by the superior right of all
citizens to enjoy the protection of the Federal Constitution."
In Western Union Tel. Co.v. Kansas, 216 U. S.1, 3448, upon a full review of the prior decisions, the principle
set forth in the foregoing quotations was again reaffirmed.
That case involved the validity of a Kansas statute which
provided that a corporation of another state, though engaged in interstate business, must, as a condition of doing
local business, pay to the state certain graduated percentages of its capital stock. It was held that this requirement operated as a burden on the interstate business
of the company, in violation of the commerce clause of
the Constitution, as well as a tax on its property beyond
the limits of the state, in violation of the due process of
law clause; that, thus, it was violative of the constitutional rights of the company; and that the right of the
company to continue to do business in Kansas was not
and could not be affected by the condition. The general
principle was again announced in the following words
(pp. 47-48):
"The right of the Telegraph Company to continue the
transaction of local business in Kansas could not be made
to depend upon its submission to a condition prescribed by
that State, which was hostile both to the letter and spirit

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

of the Constitution. The company was not bound, under
any circumstances, to surrender its constitutional exemption-from state taxation, direct or indirect, in respect of
its interstate business and its property outside of the
State, any more than it would have been bound to surrender any other right secured by the National Constitution."
Since that decision, the same principle has been reiterated many times and never departed from. Pullnman Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56, 63; International Textbook Co.
v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Herndon v. Chi., Rock Island &
Pac. Ry., 218 U. S. 135, 158; Harrison v. St. L. & San
FranciscoR. R., 232 U. S. 318, 332; Looney v. Crane Co.,
245 U. S. 178, 187; InternationalPaper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, 142-143; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 114; Public Utility Commrs. v.
Ynchausti & Co., 251 U. S. 401, 404; Terrall v. Burke
Constr. Co., supra; Burnes Natl. Bank v. Duncan, 265
U. S. 17, 24; Fidelity and Deposit Co. of Maryland v.
Tafoya et al., 270 U. S. 426.
And the principle, that a state is without power to impose an unconstitutional requirement as a condition for
granting a privilege, is broader than the applications thus
far made of it. In Western Union Tel. Co. v. Foster,
supra,two telegraph companies were engaged in transmitting the quotations of the New York Stock Exchange
among the states. This was held to be interstate commerce, and an order of the Public Service Commission of
Massachusetts, requiring the companies to remove a discrimination, was held to infringe their constitutional
rights. One of the grounds upon which the order was
defended was that it rested upon the power of the state
over the streets which it was necessary for the telegraph to
cross. That contention was answered broadly (p. 114):
"But if we assume that the plaintiffs in error under
their present charters could be excluded from the streets,

FROST TRUCKING 00. v. R. R. COM.
5&3

599

Opinion of the Court.

the consequence would not follow. Acts generally lawful
may become unlawful when done to accomplish an unlawful end, United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324,
357, and a constitutional power cannot be used by way
of condition to attain an unconstitutional result. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56. Sioux Remedy Co. v.
Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 203. The regulation in question is
quite as great an interference as a tax of the kind that
repeated decisions have held void. It cannot be justified
under that somewhat ambiguous term of police powers.'"
And, in almost the last expression of this court upon
the subject, Burnes Natl. Bank v. Duncan, supra, the
rule is none the less broadly but more succinctly stated
to be (p. 24):
"The States cannot use their most characteristic
powers to reach unconstitutional results. Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. Pullmpn Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 56. Western, Union Telegraph Co. v.
Foster,247 U. S. 105, 114."
We hold that the act under review, as applied by the
court below, violates the rights of plaintiffs in error as
guaranteed by the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment; and that the privilege of using the public
highways of California in the performance of ,heir contract is not and cannot be affected by the unconstitutional
condition imposed. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas,
supra,p. 48.
The court below seemed to think that, if the state may
not subject the plaintiffs in error to the provisions of the
act in respect of common carriers, it will be within the
power of any carrier, by the simple device of making
private contracts to an unlimited number, to secure all
the privileges afforded common carriers without assuming any of their duties or obligations. It is enough to say
that xLo such case is presented here; and we are not to be

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
HOLMEs and BRA-DEIs, JJ., dissenting.

271 U. S.

understood as challenging the power of the state, or of
the railroad commission under the present statute, whenever it shall appear that a carrier, posing as a private
carrier, is in substance and reality a common carrier, to
so declare and regulate his or its operations accordingly.
Judgment reversed.
IR. JUSTICE. HoLmEs, dissenting.
The question is whether a State may require all corporations or persons, with immaterial exceptions, who operate automobiles, &c., for the transportation of persons or
property over a regular route and between fixed termini
on the public highways of the State, for compensation,
to obtain a certificate from the railroad commission that
public necessity and convenience require such operation.
A fee has to be paid for this certificate and transportation
companies are made subject to the power of the railroad
commission to regulate their rates, accounts and service.
The provisions on this last point are immaterial here, as
the case arises upon an order of the commission under § 5
that the plaintiffs in error desist from transportation of
property as above unless and until they obtain the certificate required, and by the terms of the statute every section
and clause in it is independent of the validity of all the
rest. § 10. Whatever the Supreme Court of California
may have intimated, the only point that it decided, because that was the only question before it, was that the
order of the commission should stand.
This portion of the act is to be considered with reference
to the reasons that may have induced the legislature to
pass it, for if a warrant can be found in such reasons they
must be presumed to have been the ground. I agree, of
course, with the cases cited by my brother Sutherland, to
which may be added American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal Reserve Bank, 256 U. S. 350, 358, that even generally

FROST TRUCKING CO. v. R. R. COM.
583

HOLMES and

BRANDEIS,

601

JJ., dissenting.

lawful acts or conditions may become unlawful when done
or imposed to accomplish an unlawful end. But that is
only the converse of the proposition that acts in other circumstances unlawful may be justified by the purpose for
which they are done. This applies to acts of the legislature as well as to the doings of private parties. The only
valuable significance of the much abused phrase police
power is this power of the State to limit what otherwise
would be rights having a pecuniary value, when a predominant public interest requires the restraint. The
power of the State is limited in its turn by the constitutional guaranties of private rights, and it often is a delicate matter to decide which interest preponderates and
how far the State may go without making compensation.
The line cannot be drawn by generalities, but successive
points in it must be fixed by weighing the particular facts.
Extreme cases on the one side and on the other are Edgar
A. Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U. S. 242, and Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. li1ahon, 260 U. S. 393.
The point before us seems to me well within the legislative power. We all know what serious problems the
automobile has introduced. The difficulties of keeping
the streets reasonably clear for travel and for traffic are
very great. If a State speaking through its legislature
should think that, in order to make its highways most
useful, the business traffic upon them must be controlled,
I suppose that no one would doubt that it constitutionally
could, as, I presume, most States or cities do, exercise some
such control. The only question is how far it can go. I
see nothing to prevent its going to the point of requiring
a license and bringing the whole business under the control of a railroad commission so far as to determine the
number, character and conduct of transportation companies and so to prevent the streets from being made useless and dangerous by the number and lawlessness of those
who seek to use them. I see nothing in this act that would

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

271 U. S.

require private carriers to become common carriers, but if

there were such a requirement, it, like the provisions concerning rates and accounts, would not be before us now,
since, as I have said, the statute makes every section
independent and declares that if valid it shall stand even
if all the others fall. As to what is before us, I see no
great difference between requiring a certificate and requiring a bond as in Packardv. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, and
although, as I have said, I do not get much help from
general propositions in a case of this sort, I cannot forbear
quoting what seems to me applicable here. Distinguishing between activities that may be engaged in as a matter
of right and those like the use of the streets that are
carried on by government permission, it is said: "In the
latter case the power to exclude altogether generally includes the lesser power to condition and may justify a
degree of regulation not admissible in the former." 264
U. S. 145. I think that the judgment should be affirmed.
v[R. JUsTIcE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.
The separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS.

Our primary concern is with the decree below-not
with the reasons there advanced to support it. I suppose,
if that court had simply approved the action of the Railroad Commission and had said nothing more, there would
be little, if any, difficulty here in finding adequate ground
for affirmance.

The questions involved relate solely to matters of intrastate commerce. No complication arises by reason of the
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce. Having built and paid for the roads, California certainly has
the general power of control. Plaintiffs in error are without constitutional right to appropriate highways to their
own private business as carriers for hire. And if, in so

MO. PAC. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
583

Statement of the Case.

many words, the Legislature had said that no intrastate
carriers for hire except public ones shall be permitted to
operate over the state roads it would have violated no federal law. So far as the rights of plaintiffs in error are
affected, nothing more serious than that has been done.
The States are now struggling with new and enormously difficult problems incident to the growth of automotive traffic, and we should carefully refrain from interference unless and until there is some real, direct and
material infraction of rights guaranteed by the federal
Constitution.
I think the decree of the court below should be affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 280. Argued April 28, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. The Act of July 28, 1916, authorized the Interstate Commerce
Commission to determine on a space basis the compensation to be
paid railroads for transportation of mails in railway post-office
cars and for the service connected therewith, and to allow landgrant roads only 80% of this compensation although part of the
space in such cars by which such compensation is gauged is not
occupied for mail matter but is used for the distribution of mail on
the trains. P. 606.
2. The obligation of land-grant railroads, as expressed in granting
acts passed in 1852 and 1853, to transport the mails at all times
"under the direction of the Post-Office Department, at such price
as Congress may direct," looked to the future and includes the
furnishing of space in railway post-office cars for distribution purposes as required in this case by the Department pursuant to the
Act of July 28, 1916. P. 607.
59 Ct. Cls. 524; 60 id. 183; affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing on demurrer a petition of the Railroad seeking

