344

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

an alleged indebtedness of the plaintiff to the United
States." And it is suggested that, "as the judgment of
the District Court must be affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals without regard to the points presented in the
certified questions," an answer to these questions, which
would avail nothing, is not required. United States v.
Buzzo, 18 Wall. 125, 129; United States v. Britton, 108
U. S. 199, 207.
In view of the concession now made by Lederer, this
suggestion is not opposed by the counsel for O'Kane's
executrix. Accordingly, without answering the question
certified, the
Certificate is dismissed.

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. MILLS, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 264. Argued April 22, 23, 1926.--Decided May 24, 1926.
1. An employer, by voluntarily furnishing a guard for employees as
a protection against strikers, does not become bound to furnish
more to make the protection adequate. P. 346.
2. Assuming that the railroad in this case was under a duty to furnish protection to plaintiff's intestate, (an employee who was shot
by strikers,) held, on the facts, that there was no evidence of
negligence in failure to furnish more than one guard, and that the
jury should not have been allowed to conjecture what would have
happened if another guard had been present.
3 Fed. (2d) 882, reversed.

CERTIORRI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court for
the plaintiff, Mills, in an action against the Railway
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, removed
from a state court.

ST. LOUIS, ETC., RY. v. MILLS.
344

345

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. R. C. Cocke, with whom Messrs. E. T. Miller
and Forney Johnston were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. G. R. Harsh for respondent.
MR. JUsTicE STo~N

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent's intestate was employed in interstate and
intrastate commerce by the petitioner, as a car inspector
in its yards in Birmingham, Alabama. During the railroad shopmen's strike, on the night of August 3, 1922,
decedent, while returning from work to his home, on a
street car, was shot to death by strikers who fired upon
him, a fellow workman, and a deputy sheriff employed
by petitioner to guard decedent and his companion. Respondent brought suit in the Circuit Court of Jefferson
County, Alabama, to recover for intestate's death, under
the Federal Employer's Liability Act, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65.
The cause was removed to the District Court for northern
Alabama on the ground of diversity of citizenship. Judgment for the plaintiff, the respondent here, was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
3 Fed. (2d) 882. This court granted certiorari, 267
U. S. 589.
The trial judge withdrew from the jury the question
whether the guard was negligent in the performance of
his duty, but left it to them to say whether upon the
evidence, defendant was employed in interstate commerce at the time and place of the shooting; whether
there was a duty of due care on the part of the defendant
to protect decedent from violence by strikers while going
from his place of employment to his home; and whether
the failure of respondent to send more than a single guard
to protect decedent was negligence causing his death.
The instructions so given, and the refusal to direct a verdict for the defendant, are assigned as error.
Petitioner argues that the evidence did not warrant
the submission of any of these questions to the jury; and

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271.U. S.

contends, among other objections, that there is no evidence of a breach of any duty owing by petitioner to respondent. The question of law thus raised goes directly
to the right to recover under the Act upon which the
action was based. See St. Louis & Iron M. Ry. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265, 277.
It is not contended that any duty growing out of the
relationship of employer and employee required the employer to guard the employee against violence by strikers.
Compare Davis v. Green, 260 U. S. 349, 351; Manwell v.
Durst, 178 Cal. 572; Roebuck v. Railway Co., 99 Kan.
544; Louis v. Taylor Coal Co., 112 Ky. 485; Rourke's
C.ase, 237 Mass. 360; Matter of Lampert v. Siemons, 235
N. Y. 311. Nor is there any evidence of such an undertaking in the contract of employment. Hence the duty,
if it existed, must be predicated upon the voluntary assumption of it by petitioner.
Taken in the aspect most favorable to respondent, the
evidence shows that decedent was first employed on the
Monday preceding his death, which occurred on Thursday. The strike had been in progress for some time, and
six or seven employees were on strike in the yard where
decedent was employed. The number of strikers elsewhere does not appear. Seven guards were employed by
petitioner in the yard where decedent worked, and from
fifty to seventy-five were employed elsewhere in the city.
There was some evidence that, during decedent's employment, guards had been provided for employees while
at work during the day, and to accompany decedent and
some others to and from their homes. There was no
evidence that petitioner had ever furnished decedent or
any other employee with more than one guard in going
to or from work; or any other evidence from which it
could be inferred that petitioner had undertaken, or held
itself out as undertaking, to furnish more protection to
the decedent or its other workmen than it actually did
furnish.

ST. LOUIS,
344

ETC.,

RY. v. MILLS.

Opinion of the Court.

The respondent here asserts that the defendant, having assumed to do something, should have done more.
But the bare fact that the employer voluntarily provided
some protection against an apprehended danger, by
undertaking to do something which involved no special
knowledge or skill, can give rise to no inference that it
undertook to do more. Respondent therefore relies on
the breach of a duty which does not exist at common
law, and of whose genesis in fact it offers no evidence.
There is a similar absence of evidence of negligent failure by petitioners to fulfill this supposed duty of protection. The burden of proving negligence rested on the
respondent. Pattonv. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 179 U. S.
658. But whether a supply of guards sufficient to meet
the emergency was obtainable; what demands were made
upon them, and whether there were other guards available
for the particular journey when the decedent was killed,
are questions on which the record is silent.
Nor is there evidence from which the jury might infer
that petitioner's failure to provide an additional guard or
guards, was the proximate cause of decedent's death.
Whether one or more additional guards would have prevented the killing is in the highest degree speculative.
The undisputed evidence is that the shooting was done
by one or more of three men standing on the rear platform of the car. They had come there after decedent and
his companions had seated themselves in the car. Without warning they fired a volley into the car, and fled.
Decedent and his guard were armed, but had no opportunity to defend themselves. On such a state of facts the
jury should not have been permitted to conjecture what
might have happened if an additional guard had been
present. See Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Coogan,
post, p. 472; Patton v. Texas & Pacific Ry., supra; Reading Co. v. Boyer, 6 Fed. (2d) 185; Midland Valley R. R.
v. FuIgham, 181 Fed. 91; Laidlaw v. Sage, 158 N. Y. 73.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

348

Syllabus.

271 U. S.

The evidence must at least point to the essential fact
which the jury is required to find in order to sustain the
verdict.
We need not inquire whether decedent was employed in
interstate commerce at the time of his death, or whether
the rule laid down in Erie R. R. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 170,
can be extended, as the court below held, so as to support
the judgment of the District Court.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
BLAIR, COMMISSIONER, v. UNITED STATES Ex
EL.

BIRKENSTOCK

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS,

ETC.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 713.

Argued May 4, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

Under § 1019 of the Revenue Act of 1924, which provides: "Upon
the allowance of a credit or refund of any internal-revenue tax
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, . . . interest shall
be allowed and paid on the amount of such credit or refund at the
rate of 6 per centum per annum from the date such tax
was paid to the date of the allowance of the refund, or in case of
a credit, to the due date of the amount against which the credit
is taken
."-eld:
1. Interest runs to the date on which the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue signs the authorization to the Disbursing Clerk
of the Treasury, directing him to pay the refund. Girard Trust
Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 163. P. 348.
2. Where an excessive income tax is paid in instalments, interest
does not begin running upon payments in excess of instalments due
until the payments exceed the total tax due. Revenue Act, 1918,
§§ 250(a) (b), 252. P. 351.
3. The provision of § 1019 that "in case of a credit" interest
is to be allowed "to the due date of the amount against which
the credit is taken," relates to a credit properly allowed of a

