M., K. & T. RY. v. OKLAHOMA.

303

Opinion of the Court.

'ISSOURI,

KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COM-

PANY

ET AL.

v. OKLAHOMA ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 205. Submitted March 5, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
1. A contract between a city and a railroad company the enforcement
of which would hamper the State's power reasonably to regulate
the construction and use of a crossing of the railway by a city
street, would be void. P. 307.
2. A contract between a city and a railroad company, whereby the
company (owning the fee) granted the city the right of way for a
street under its railroad, and the city agreed to pay the cost of
construction, and which contained other stipulations made for the
sake of doing away with unauthorized crossings and arranging for
further street extensions, but none involving any surrender by the
city of police power or eminent domain, held valid. P. 308.
3. An order of a state commission ignoring such a contract and requiring the company to construct the crossing and share the expense
with the city, receiving from the city compensation for the right
of way, impaired the obligation of the contract and deprived the
company of property without due process of law. P. 306.
107 Okla. 23, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma denying a petition by the Railway Company to set
aside an order of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission,
made on petition of the City of McAlester,*and requiring
the Company to provide a street crossing.

Messrs. Joseph M. Bryson, Charles S. Burg, Maurice D.
Green, and Howard L. Smith for plaintiffs in error.
Messrs. William J. Horton,E. S. Ratliff, and Jackman A.
Gill for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The railroad of plaintiff in error runs through the city
of McAlester, Oklahoma. At Comanche Avenue the main

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

line is on a fill, and at least one industrial or sidetrack is
on a lower level. In September, 1921, the city applied
to the state Corporation Commission for an order requiring the railway company to provide at that place a
pass under its tracks and a highway across its right of
way. The commission ordered that the company prepare a plan and an estimate of quantities and cost for a
reinforced concrete subway, having two openings of specified dimensions; that the plan show the location of industrial tracks, and that these tracks conform to the street
grade; that the plan and estimate be filed with the mayor
of the city and the Corporation Commission; and that if
the company and the city failed to agree on an apportionment of cost of the underpass, the commission would
hear evidence on that subject. The company was ordered to have the underpass constructed and open for
traffic within 90 days after arrangement by the city to
pay its portion of the cost. The company filed its petition in the supreme court to have the order set aside on
the grounds, among others, that it is repugnant to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and impairs the obligation of a contract in violation of § 10 of
Article I of the Constitution of the United States. The
court affirmed the order (107 Okla. 23), and the case is
here on writ of error. § 237, Judicial Code.
The line was built about 1873 on land granted by Congress to the company-then known as the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, southern branch-for the construction of its railroad. Act of July 26, 1866, § 8, c. 270, 14
Stat. 289, 291. The city of South McAlester and the
townsite of McAlester were laid out subsequently, pursuant to the Act of Congress of June 28, 1898, § 14,
c. 517, 30 Stat. 495, 499. In platting these townsites,
streets were laid out to the boundary line on each side of
the land constituting the company's right of way. November 8, 1901, the city passed Ordinance No. 74. At

Al., K. & T. RY. v. OKLAHOMA.
.30.3

Opinion of the Court.

that time there were a number of unauthorized crossings
in use by the public; but the city had not acquired by
purchase or condemnation the right of way for the extension of any street across the railroad. The ordinance was
accepted by the company and is in form a contract. It
provided for the immediate extension of certain platted
streets across the right of way, tracks and station grounds
of the company in lieu of the unauthorized crossings then
in use. Some of the new crossings were to be constructed
by the company at its own expense, and the cost of others
was to be borne equally by the parties. Terms and conditions for the construction of other crossings were set
forth in the ordinance. It was declared that thereafter
the city would open no other street across the right of
way and tracks of the company except upon payment of
amounts specified in the ordinance as stipulated damages
for a right of way across the railroad, any determination
in condemnation proceedings instituted by the city,
whether more or less than the agreed sum, to the contrary
notwithstanding. It was stated that nothing contained
in the ordinance should constitute a waiver of the company's right to contest the opening of additional streets.
But there is no provision purporting to limit power or
authority of the city to establish or regulate street crossings over, under or upon the tracks and other property
of the company. And it was specifically agreed that, if
at any time the city should desire to extend and open
Comanche Avenue across the company's right of way and
station grounds, the crossing should be constructed under
the tracks located upon the fill and at grade across tracks
laid at the street level, according to plans and specifications approved by the company and at the sole cost and
expense of the city. The company, for this and other
considerations mentioned in the ordinance, agreed to
waive all claims for damages caused by the opening and
establishing of this crossing.
I954,2 -- 26-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

Pursuant to the Act of Congress of March 29, 1906, c.
1351, 34 Stat. 91, the city of McAlester was created by the
consolidation of the city of South McAlester and the town
of McAlester. In performance of the agreements contained in the ordinance, the city of McAlester in 1909,
and again in 1912, assumed and paid portions of the cost
of construction of some of the crossings covered by the
ordinance. And ever since the consolidation it has been
recognized and treated as the successor of the city of
South McAlester and as a party to the contract. The
present city is bound to the same extent as was its predecessor that passed the ordinance.
The court held that the state laws gave the commission
full jurisdiction over all highways where they cross railways; that the commission had authority to order the
crossing in question and to assess the cost of it against
the city and the railway company, but not more than 50
per cent. against the city; that the company was the
owner in fee of its right of way lands; that they could not
be appropriated or damaged for public use without just
compensation, and that the commission could not enforce
obedience to its order to construct the grade crossing
until the question of damage to the fee had been determined either by amicable settlement or by condemnation
proceedings.
The order, as interpreted and affirmed, directly contravenes the provisions of the ordinance in respect of the
Comanche Avenue crossing. It sets at naught the undertaking of the city to bear the cost of construction and the
agreement of the company to give the city the right of
way for the street crossing and to waive all claims for
damages. The effect is to require the company forthwith
to prepare the plan and estimate, and to direct the company-upon the determination of its just compensation
and the consummation of arrangements by the city to pay
the portion of the cost, if any, that may be imposed upon

M., K. & T. RY. v. OKLAHOMA.
303

Opinion of the Court.

it-to proceed to construct the underpass and to have it
open for traffic within the time specified. If a contract
exists between the parties in respect of this crossing, it is
manifest that it would be impaired by the enforcement of
the commission's order.
But defendants in error contend that the ordinance is
void because it attempts to surrender police power; and
therefore that there is no such contract.
It is elementary that for the safety and convenience of
the public, the State, either directly or through its municipalities, may reasonably regulate the construction and use
of highways where they cross railroads. The legitimate
exertion of police power to that end does not violate the
constitutional rights of railroad companies. They may
be required at their own expense to construct bridges or
viaducts whenever the elimination of grade crossings reasonably may be required, whether constructed before or
after the building of the railroads. Northern PacificRailway v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583, 597; Chi., Mi. & St. P. Ry.
v. Minneapolis, 232 U. S. 430, 438; Mo. Pac.Ry. v. Omaha,
235 U. S. 121, 127; Erie R. R. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'rs, 254 U. S. 394, 409, 412. And such costs are
not included in the just compensation which the railroad
companies are entitled to receive. Cincinnati, I. & W.
Ry. v. Connersville, 218 U. S. 336, 343; Chi., Mil. & St.
P. Ry. v. Minneapolis, supra, 440. If the enforcement of
its provisions operates to hamper the State's power reasonably to regulate the construction and use of the Comanche Avenue crossing, then undoubtedly the ordinance
is void. Chicago & Alton R. R. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S.
67, 76; Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548,
558; Denver & R. G. R. R. Co. v. Denver, 250 U. S.
241, 244.
The precise question is whether the agreement of the
city to bear the cost of construction is inconsistent with
the proper exertion of the police power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

When the ordinance was passed, it was the purpose of
the parties to get rid of unauthorized crossings then in
use and to arrange for the extension of platted streets
across the tracks and station grounds. It was necessary
for the city to obtain rights of way for that purpose; and
it was empowered to acquire them by contract, purchase
or condemnation. §§ 11, 14, c. 517, 30 Stat. 498, 499;
Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas (1884),
§§ 749, 760, 907-912. It could not take them without
making just compensation to the owner. The company
owned its right of way lands and station grounds in fee.
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Roberts, 152 U. S.
114. It was entitled to compensation for any of its property that might be taken or damaged by the construction
and use of the crossings. Chicago, Burlington,&c., R. R.
Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 251; Cincinnati,I. & W. Ry.
v.*Connersville, supra.
The ordinance did not purport to limit the number of
crossings that might be opened. Retention by the company of the right to resort to litigation to determine
whether the opening of additional streets across the railroad is reasonably necessary does not at all impinge upon
police power. Quite independently of the ordinance, the
opening and regulation of such crossings is subject to
judicial scrutiny, and action that is arbitrary or capricious
will be held invalid. Denver & R. G. R. R. Co. v. Denver,
supra, 244. Indeed, the reservation contemplates the exertion of the police power and plainly implies that the
parties did not intend to restrict the authority of the city
to open crossings.
The agreement of the city to pay the amounts stipulated for the opening of certain crossings does not involve
or contemplate any surrender of the power of eminent
domain. It was authorized to contract, purchase or condemn as it saw fit. The opinion of the state court
rightly approves amicable settlement of the compensa-

M., K. & T. RY. v. OKLAHOMA.
303

309

Opinion of the Court.

tion to be given the owner. The parties were not bound
to resort to litigation. It was competent for them in advance to settle the form and amount of compensation.
The company's agreement to grant a right of way for the
crossing was a valid consideration for the city's undertaking to bear the cost of construction.
This case is not like Northern Pacific Railroad v.
Duluth, supra, cited by defendants in error. There the
city had the right of way for the street, and a grade crossing existed for many years. The elimination of that crossing became necessary. The company refused to comply
with the city's demands in that respect. Then a contract
was made. The city agreed to build a bridge to carry the
street over the railroad tracks and the company agreed to
contribute $50,000 to its cost. The city undertook to
maintain the bridge over the tracks for 15 years and to
maintain the approaches perpetually. The city built the
bridge at a cost of $23,000 in addition to the amount paid
by the company. Years later, when repairs were needed,
the company refused to make them. This court following the decision of the Minnesota supreme court (98
Minn. 429) held that the contract was without consideration, against public policy and void. The Northern
Pacific Company gave up nothing. The city already had
the right of way. The company might have been required to build the bridge. The contract relieved it of a
part of the cost, and attempted for all time to suspend
the proper exertion of the police power in respect of
maintenance. The ordinance now before us is very different from the situation and contract considered in that
case.
There is nothing in the ordinance that involves any
attempt to interfere with or hinder the proper exertion
of police power. Evidently it was the intention of the
parties to make a permanent settlement in respect of the
crossings covered by the ordinance. The city was em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

powered to open the Comanche Avenue crossing at any
time without condemnation or other proceedings. Neither party could terminate the contract without the consent of the other. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Pennsylvania Co., 129 Fed. 849, 862. The city's agreement to bear the cost of construction of the Comanche
Avenue crossing does not infringe the police power. The
enforcement of the commission's order would deprive
plaintiff in error of its property without due process of
law and would impair the obligation of the contract in
violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. PITTSBURGH & WEST VIRGINIA RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
PITTSBURGH & WEST VIRGINIA RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 864, 865. Argued March 11, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
1. Under § 1 of the Federal Control Act, and § 6 of the standard
form of contracts made pursuant thereto between the Director
General of railways and railroads taken over by the Government,
whereby the Director General was either to pay out of the revenues derived from railway operations "during the period of federal
control," or save the company harmless from, all taxes lawfully
assessed under federal or other governmental authority "for any
part of said period," except "war taxes" assessed against the
company under the Revenue Act of 1917 or any Act in addition
thereto or amendment thereof, the obligation of the Director
General to bear the normal income taxes of a railroad corporation was limited to those "assessed for the period of federal control," and did not extend to income taxes under the Revenue Act
of 1921, assessed for the year 1921, on income received by the
company in that year (after termination of federal control) from
the Director General in compensation for the use of its properties
during federal control. P. 312.

