COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 195.

Argued March 5, 8, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.

1. Under § 1, pars. 18-20, of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by Transportation Act, 1920, § 402, the Interstate Commerce Commission has power to authorize abandonment, as respects both intrastate and interstate traffic, of a branch line of
railroad, lying wholly within the State of the owning company's
incorporation, upon the ground that local conditions are such that
public convenience and necessity do not require continued operation, and that such operation will result in large deficits constituting
an undue burden upon interstate commerce. P. 161.
2. The exercise of federal power in authorizing such abandonment is
not an invasion of the field reserved by the Constitution to the
State, for the paramount power of Congress over interstate commerce enables it to determine to what extent and in what manner
intrastate service must be subordinated in order that interstate
service may be adequately rendered. P. 165.
3. In a suit to enjoin an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the court may consider the objections that essential findings
were not made and that findings made were not supported by evidence, if all the evidence before the Commission was introduced in
the court below and is substantially incorporated in the record
on appeal. P. 166.
4. While the constitutional basis of authority to issue the certificate
of abandonment is the power of Congress to regulate interstate
commerce, the Act does not make issuance of the certificate conditional upon a finding that continued operation will result in discrimination against interstate commerce, or that it will result in a
denial of just compensation for the use in intrastate commerce of
the property of the carrier within the State, or that it will result
in a denial of such compensation for the property within the State
used in commerce intrastate and interstate. P. 167.
5. The sole test prescribed by the Act is that abandonment be consistent with public necessity and convenience; in determining this
the Commission must have regard for the needs of both intrastate
and interstate commerce. P. 168.
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Colorado.

271 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed the bill brought by the State of Colorado, against
the United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and the Colorado &' Southern Railway Company, seeking
to enjoin and in part set aside an order of the Commission,-a certificate permitting the Railway to abandon
a branch line in Colorado.

Mr. Barney L. Whatley, with whom Messrs. William
L. Boatright, Attorney General of Colorado, and S. E.
Naugle, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief,
for appellant.
It is the duty of a railroad company doing business as
a common carrier to provide reasonably adequate facilities for serving the public, and the State has the power
to compel it to do so as long as the powers and privileges
granted to the carrier by the State are retained and
enjoyed. C. & 0. Ry. Co. v. PublicService Comm., 242 U.
S. 603; A. C. L. R. R. Co. v. North CarolinaCorp. Comm.,
206 U. S. 1; MissouriPac. R. R. Co. v. Kansas ex rel. etc.,
216 U. S. 262; Ore. R. R. & Nay. Co. v. Fairchild,224
U. S. 510; P. & S. Coal Co. v. Del. & N. R. Co., 289 Fed.
133; Colo. & Sou. Ry. Ca. v. Railroad Comm., 54 Colo.
54. The State may compel the performance of that duty
even though it results in a financial loss to the carrier, unless all of its charter rights and privileges are surrendered.
Cases cited, supra, and Brooks-Scanlon & Co. v. RailroadComm., 251 U. S. 396; Railroad Comm. of Texas v.
Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79; Ft. Smith Lt. &
Tr. Co. v. Bourland,267 U. S. 330. Where the State has
ordered the carrier to provide a certain service, the question of financial loss is an important circumstance in
determining the reasonableness of the order; but in advance of such an order the question of financial loss is not
involved.
Neither the Interstate Commerce Act nor Transportation Act, 1920, takes from the State the right to regulate

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
153

Argument for Colorado.

and control its intrastate commerce; and to the extent
that they or either of them may attempt to do so they
are unconstitutional. Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co.,
258 U. S. 204; Railroad Comm. of Tex~as v. Eastern Texas
R. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79; Ft. Smith Lt. & Trac. Co. v.
Bourland, 267 U. S. 330. The Interstate Commerce Commission is without power to authorize the abandonment,
as respects intrastate business, of a line of railroad wholly
within a State, which is owned and operated by a corporation of that State; and at the same time permit the company to retain and enjoy its charter rights and privileges.
This is not a case of discrimination against interstate
and foreign commerce, nor of the construction of any new
plant or facility, nor of rates; and decisions of this court
involving these questions do not change the rule announced in the cases above cited. Where it is shown that
a railroad company chartered by a State has for seven
years enjoyed an average annual net operating income of
practically $2,450,000, and there is no showing or finding
as to the value of its properties used and useful in the
public service, and no showing that it is not earning and
getting a fair return on the present fair value of those
properties, an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission authorizing the abandonment, as respects intrastate business, of a portion of one of the company's lines
located wholly within that State, is not supported by
sufficient evidence or findings, and should be set aside as
arbitrary action.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission for
the total abandonment of a line of railroad wholly within
a State, owned and operated by a corporation of that
State, made without any evidence concerning, and without giving consideration to, property values, revenues and
expenses of the intrastate business of the carrier considered separately from the interstate business, and without a finding concerning such matters, is not supported

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

271 U. S.

by proper evidence or findings and should be set aside.
B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. United States, 264 U. S. 258; Simpson v. Shepard, 230 U. S. 352; St. Louis & S. F. R. R.
Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Cumberland Tel. & Tel. Co. v.
Pub. Ser. Comm., 283 Fed. 215. Such an order based
solely on the past operating results of the particular line
when the company was engaged in both interstate and
intrastate business and under schedules of operation voluntarily inaugurated and maintained by it, and where
there is no showing or finding as to how many trains
will be required in the future for the service and accommodation of purely intrastate business nor of the financial results of operating such train or trains, is not supported by sufficient evidence or findings, and should be
set aside. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission based, in part, upon the fact that the railroad corporation offered to lease its line for a nominal rental to
those who protested its abandonment, should be set aside
as arbitrary and unwarranted.
Messrs. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, and R. Granville Curry, with whom Solicitor
General Mitchell and Mr. P. J. Farrellwere on the briefs,
for the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The staggering deficits in the operation of the Buena
Vista-Romley branch constitute such a drain on an artery of interstate commerce as to call for the issuance of
the certificate. Texas v. Eastern Tex. R. R., 258 U. S.
204; R. R. Comm. v. Eastern Tex. R. R., 264 U. S. 79.
In Texas v. Eastern Tex. R. R., supra, this Court said of
the Eastern Texas Railroad, (thus clearly distinguishing
it from the case at bar,): "It is not as if the road were a
branch or extension whose unremunerative operation
would or might burden or cripple the main line and
thereby affect its utility or service as an artery of inter-

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
153

Argument for the Railway.

state and foreign commerce." These words precisely describe the situation in the present case and the Commission acted accordingly.
The fact that commerce both interstate and intrastate
may move over the branch does not invalidate the certificate. United States v. Village of Hubbard, 266 U. S.
474; Railroad Commission, of Wisconsin v. C. B. & Q.
R. R., 257 U. S. 563; New York v. United States, 257
U. S. 591; Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342; American
Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617; United States v.
Tennessee, 262 U. S. 318.
The contract claimed between the State and Colorado
& Southern may not prevail against the paramount power
of Congress through the Commission to regulate interstate and foreign commerce. State of New York v.
United States, 257 U. S.591; United States v. Village of
Hubbard,266 U. S. 474.
Mr. Bruce Scott, with whom Messrs. Kenneth F. Burgess, J. Q. Dier, and J. H. Barwise, Jr. were on the brief,
for The Colorado & Southern Railway Company.
Appellee railway company contends that the certificate
and order of the Interstate Commerce Commission authorizing this abandonment were clearly within its statutory authority, Interstate Commerce Act, § 1, par. 18-20,
41 Stat. 477; that this statutory authority to the Commission authorizing abandonment was part of a comprehensive scheme of railroad regulation wherein Congress
sought to provide an adequate system of interstate
transportation, R. R. Comm. of Wisconsin v. C. B. & Q.
R. R. Co., 257 U. S.563; New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S. 184; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United
States, 263 U. S.456; R. R. Comm. of Calif. v. Southern
Pacific, 264 U. S. 331; D. & M. Ry. Co. v. Boyne City G.
& A. R. Co., 286 Fed. 540; that the constitutionality of
the Transportation Act, 1920, has been repeatedly upheld

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the Railway.

271 U1. S.

by this Court, R. R. Comm. of Wisconsin v. C. B. & Q.
R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; New York v. United States,
257 U. S. 591; Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 258
U. S. 204; Texas v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 258
U. S. 158; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456; R. R. Comm. of Calif. v. Southern Pacific,
264 U. S. 331; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry.
Co., 265 U. S. 274; that the courts will not review determinations of the Interstate Commerce Commission made
within the seope of its power, or substitute their judgment for its findings, United States v. New River Co.,
265 U. S. 533; Illinois Central v. Int. Comm. Comm.,
215 U. S. 452; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Union
Pacific Co., 222 U. S. 541; Kansas City Sou. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 231 U. S. 423; United States v. L. & N.
Ry. Co., 235 U. S. 314; ManufacturersRy. Co. v. United
States, 246 U. S. 457; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v.
United States, 254 U. S. 57; New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S. 184; that the final order of the Interstate Commerce Commission was entered after full hearing and
argument, rehearing and reargument, upon consideration
of the evidence of record, 72 I. C. C. 315; 82 I. C. C. 310;
86 I. C. C. 393; that the Commission made an administrative finding of the existence of an undue burden upon
interstate commerce through the operation of this branch,
which finding was based upon substantial evidence, 86
I. C. C. 393; that similar burdens have been frequently
enjoined by the courts both prior and subsequent to the
Transportation Act of 1920, as undue interference with
interstate commerce, C. B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. R. R. Comm.
of Wis., 237 U. S. 220; MississippiR. R. Comm. v. Illinois
Cent. R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Atlantic Coast Line v.
Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; Herndonv. C. R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
218 U. S. 135; Roach v. A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 218 U. S.
159; Davis, Director Gen. v. Farmers Cooperative Co.,
262 U. S. 312; A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Wells, 265 U. S. 101.

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
153

Opinion of the Court.

The facts in this case differentiate it from the Eastern
Texas Case, 258 U. S. 204, appellee being an artery of interstate commerce in several States, the utility of which
would be burdened by operation of this branch line. The
other points relied upon by appellant have already been
ruled upon by this Court adversely to appellant's contention; (a) contract or charter obligation of a carrier yields
to the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce
and to administrative orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission entered thereunder, L. & N. B. R. Co. v.
Mottley, 219 U. S. 467; New York v. United States, 257
U. S. 591; P. B. & W. R. R. Co. v. Schubert, 224 U. S.
603; (b) no duty rested on the Interstate Commerce
Commission under the law to separate property values
and revenue and expenses as between intrastate and
interstate operations.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought by Colorado against the United
States, in the federal court for that State, to enjoin and
set aside, in part, an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission issued February 11, 1924. The order is a
certificate that present and future public convenience
and necessity permit the abandonment by the Colorado
& Southern Railway Company, six months thereafter, of
a branch line located wholly in that State. The certificate was issued under Interstate Commerce Act, § 1, pars.
18-20, as amended by Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91,
§ 402, 41 Stat. 456, 477.
The Company is a Colorado corporation. It owns and
operates in intrastate and interstate commerce a railroad
system located partly in Colorado and partly in other
States. The branch was constructed under the authority
of Colorado and was acquired by the Company under its
authority. The line is narrow gauge. It is now physi-

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

cally detached from other lines of the Company; but it
is operated in both intrastate and interstate commerce
as a part of the system by means of connections with
other railroads. The certificate was granted on the
ground that the local conditions are such that public
convenience and necessity do not require continued operation; that for years operation of the branch had
resulted in large deficits; that future operation would
likewise result in large deficits; that the operating results
of the branch are reflected in the Company's accounts;
that it would have to make good the deficits incurred in
operating the branch; and that thus continued operation
would constitute an undue burden upon interstate commerce. Abandonment of Branch Line by Colorado &
Southern Ry., 72 1. C. C. 315; 82 1. C. C. 310; 86 I. C. C.
393.
The application for the certificate was filed September
1, 1921. Before any hearing thereon, the State moved
that the proceeding be dismissed on the ground, among
others, that, as the branch was wholly intrastate, the
Commission was without jurisdiction of the application.
This objection was overruled. Thereafter, the State opposed, on the merits, the granting of the certificate. The
case was first heard before Division 4 of the Commission
on exceptions filed by the Company to the examiner's
proposed report. On July 28, 1922, the application was
denied, with leave to renew it "if the improvement in
operating results, confidently anticipated by protestants.
should not materialize." 72 I. C. C. 315. On May 19,
1923, the Company filed a petition praying that the case
be reopened and set for further hearing. Division 4
heard it. On September 24,. 1923, an order was entered
that the certificate issue. 82 I. C. C. 310. A hearing
before the full Commission was then sought by the State
and the other protestants. Compare United States v.
Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274, 281. The

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

153

request was granted. On February 11, 1924, the order
was affirmed with the modification that the certificate
should not take effect until six months from that date.
86 I. C. C. 393. The effective date of the certificate was
later extended to September 11, 1924; and finally to October 11, 1924. 94 I. C. C. 657, 661.
Meanwhile, this suit had been begun. The Commission and the Company intervened as defendants. On
August 19, 1924, a decree dismissing the bill on the merits
was entered, upon final hearing, without opinion. A
motion for a suspension of the order of the Commission
pending an appeal was denied. The case is here on direct
appeal under the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat.
208, 220. The order is assailed as void insofar as it authorizes abandonment and discontinuance of operation in
intrastate traffic. The remedy pursued is the appropriate one. See Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 258 U. S.
204.
First. The main contention of the State is that the
Commission lacks power to authorize the Company to
abandon, as respects intrastate traffic, a part of its line
lying wholly within the State. The argument is this.
While a railroad cannot, in the absence of express statutory provision or contract, be compelled by a State to
continue operating its lines at a loss when there is no
reasonable prospect of future profit, and may, therefore,
without such consent, abandon all lines within the State.
Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S.
396; Bullock v. Florida, 254 U. S. 513, 520; Railroad
Commission v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79, 85;
it has no right to abandon a part of the lines, merely
because operation will be attended by pecuniary loss,
and still continue to enjoy the privilege of operating other
parts within the State; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 242 U. S. 603; Fort Smith
Light & Traction Co. v. Bourland, 267 U. S. 330. The
9542°-26---1

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

charter of the Colorado & Southern is a contract with
the State. By accepting the charter, the Company assumed the obligation of providing intrastate service on
every part of its line within the State, Colorado & Southern Ry. v. Railroad Commission, 54 Colo., 64, 92-3. The
extent and character of this service is subject to regulation by the State. The inherent power of a State to
regulate intrastate traffic by requiring the railroad to
operate every part of its line, like its power to order a particular service, is, of course, subject to the limitation that
the order must not be unreasonable. But the fact that
operation of the branch will necessarily result in financial
loss, would, in no event, be more than an important circumstance bearing upon the reasonableness of the State's
order *requiringthe service. In the case at bar no question of the reasonableness of the State's action can arise,
because the State has not issued any order; it has merely
protested against the Commission's releasing this Colorado corporation from the primary duty voluntarily assumed of maintaining some service on the branch. This,
the Commission cannot do as respects intrastate commerce. Transportation Act, 1920, did not purport to
take from the State its powers to control intrastate commerce. Nor did it confer upon the Commission power
to release a corporation chartered by the State from its
primary obligation to furnish service. If par. 18 of § 1
should be construed as authorizing the Commission to do
so without the consent of the State, the provision would
be unconstitutional. Compare Texas v. Eastern Texas
R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 204, 217. Such is the argument.
The argument rests upon a misconception of the nature
of the power exercised by the Commission in authorizing
abandonment under paragraphs 18-20. The certificate
issues, not primarily to protect the railroad, but to protect interstate commerce from undue burdens or discrimination. The Commission by its order removes an ob-

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
153

Opinion of the Court.

struction which would otherwise prevent the railroad
from performing its federal duty. Prejudice to interstate
commerce may be effected in many ways. One way is by
excessive expenditures from the common fund in the local
interest, thereby lessening the ability of the carrier properly to serve interstate commerce. Expenditures in the
local interest may be so large as to compel the carrier to
raise reasonable interstate rates, or to abstain from making
an appropriate reduction of such rates, or to curtail interstate service, or to forego facilities needed in interstate
commerce. Likewise, excessive local expenditures may so
weaken the financial condition of the carrier as to raise the
cost of securing capital required for providing transportation facilities used in the service, and thus compel an increase of rates. Such depletion of the common resources
in the local interest may conceivably be effected by continued operation of an intrastate branch in intrastate
commerce at a large loss.
The sole objective of paragraphs 18-20 is the regulation
of interstate commerce. Control is exerted over intrastate commerce only because such control is a necessary
incident of freeing interstate commerce from the unreascnable burdens, obstruction or unjust discrhnination
which are found to result from operating a branch at a
large loss. Congress has power to authorize abandonment, because the State's power to regulate and promote
intrastate commerce may not be exercised in such a way
as to prejudice interstate commerce. The exertion of the
federal power to prevent prejudice to interstate commerce so arising from the operation of a branch in intrastate commerce is similar to that exerted when a State
establishes intrastate rates so low that intrastate traffic
does not bear its fair share of the cost of the service, Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Nashville, Chattanooga
& St. Louis Ry. v. Tennessee, 262 U. S. 318; or when the

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

state authorities seek to compel the erection of a union
station so expensive as unduly to deplete the financial
resources of the carriers, Railroad Commission v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331; or when one railroad seeks
to construct an intrastate branch line, which will deplete
its own financial resources or those of another interstate
carrier, Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa
Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266. The jurisdiction exercised by
the Commission in these cases is in essence that which was
invoked in The Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, a power
to prevent unjust preference to particular intrastate
shippers or localities at the demonstrated expense of
interstate commerce. But there is a broader basis for
federal control.
This railroad, like most others, was chartered to engage
in both intrastate and interstate commerce. The same
instrumentality serves both. The two services are inextricably intertwined. The extent and manner in which
one is performed, necessarily affects the performance of
the other. Efficient performance of either is dependent
upon the efficient performance of the transportation system as a whole. Congress did not, in the respect here
under consideration, assume exclusive regulation of the
common instrumentality, as it did in respect to safety
coupling 4evices. Compare Southern Ry. Co. v. United,
States, 222 U. S. 20; Atlantic Coast Line v. Georgia, 234
U. S. 280, 293. It expressly excluded from federal control
that part of the railroad which consists of "spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks located . . . wholly
within one State." See Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., supra. But as to the rest
of every railroad line used in interstate commerce, Congress reserved the full authority to determine whether,
and to what extent, public convenience and necessity
permit of abandonment.
Recognition of the effect upon interstate commerce of
the use of the same instrumentality in intrastate com-

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
153

Opinion of the Court.

merce is manifested also in other provisions of Transportation Act, 1920. It is a reason for the exclusive
jurisdiction conferred upon the Commission by § 20a over
the issuance of securities. Compare Venner v. Michigan
Central R. R. Co., ante, p. 127. It is the ground upon
which the validity of the recapture clause, as applied to
surplus profits derived from intrastate operations, was
sustained in Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456, 485. It is the justification for those provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act which require
carriers engaged in both intrastate and interstate commerce to render accounts of all their business. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S.
194. And upon it rests likewise the power exerted by
this Court in setting aside the state regulations involved
in Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission,
248 U. S. 67, and St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 254 U. S. 535. See also
United States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262
U. S. 1.
The exercise of federal power in authorizing abandonment is not an invasion of a field reserved to the State.
The obligation assumed by the corporation under its
charter of providing intrastate service on every part of its
line within the State is subordinate to the performance by
it of its federal duty, also assumed, efficiently to render
transportation services in interstate commerce. There is
no contention here that the railroad by its charter agreed
in terms to continue to operate this branch regardless of
loss. Compare Railroad Commission v. Eastern Texas
R. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79. But even explicit charter provisions must yield to the paramount power of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce. New York v. United
States, 257 U. S. 591, 601. Because the same instrumentality serves both, Congress has power to assume not only
some control, but paramount control, insofar as interstate

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

commerce is involved. It may determine to what extent
and in what manner intrastate service must be subordinated in order that interstate service may be adequately
rendered. The power to make the determination inheres
in the United States as an incident of its power over interstate commerce. The making of this determination
involves an exercise of judgment upon the facts of the
particular case. The authority to find the facts and to
exercise thereon the judgment whether abandonment is
consistent with public convenience and necessity, Congress conferred upon the Commission.
Second.- The State contends further that the order is
void, so far as it relates to intrastate traffic, because essential findings were not made and, also, because essential
findings made were not supported by evidence. The
Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258. The findings
alleged to be essential and lacking are that by continued
operation of the branch interstate or foreign commerce
will be discriminated against, or that the Company will
be prevented from earning a fair return on the value of
its properties as a whole, or that the entire intrastate business in Colorado will not earn such a return upon the
property used in conducting that business. The other
objections urged are that the evidence of past operating
deficits on the branch, which include both interstate and
intrastate traffic, does not support the finding that operation in intrastate traffic alone will result in like deficits;
and that the decision of the Commission was improperly
influenced by an offer to lease the line to the protestants
at a nominal rental. All the evidence before the Commission was introduced below and is, in substance, incorporated in the record on appeal. Both classes of objections must, therefore, be considered. New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 203.
Before examining the specific objections, the nature of
the determination to be made by the Commission upon
an application for leave to abandon should be further con-

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
153

Opinion of the Court.

sidered. As every projected abandonment of any part of
a railroad engaged in both interstate and intrastate commerce may conceivably involve a conflict between state
and national interests, the consent of the Commission
must be obtained by the railroad in every dase. To ensure due consideration of the local interests, Congress provided that a copy of every application must be promptly
filed with the Governor of the State directly affected, that
notice of the application must be published in some local
newspaper, and that the appropriate state authorities
should have "the right to make before the Commission
such representations as they may deem just and proper
for preserving the rights and interests of their people and
the States, respectively, involved in such proceedings."
In practice, representatives of state regulatory bodies sit,
sometimes. with the representatives of the Commission at
hearings upon the application for a certificate. Occasionally, the Connission leaves the preliminary enquiry to
the state body. And always consideration is given by the
Commission to the representations of the state authorities.'
While the constitutional basis of authority to issue the
certificate of abandonment is the power of Congress to
regulate interstate commerce, the Act does not make
issuance of the certificate conditional upon a finding that
continued operation will result in discrimination against
I From the enactment of Transportation Act, 1920, to February
18, 1926, the number of applications for abandonment acted on was
191. Of these, 9 were dismissed by the Commission for want of jurisdietion; 11 were denied; 170 were granted. Of these 170, only 6
were granted contrary to the recommendation of the state authorities.
Of the 47 cases in which state authorities made specific recommendations, the Commission acted in 38 in accordance therewith. In 2
cases in which the State recommended postponement, the Commission denied the application. In one, in which the State recommended
denial of the application, the Commission postponed decision pending the result of operation during a test period.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

interstate commerce, or that it will result in a denial of
just compensation for the use in intrastate commerce of
the property of the carrier within the State, or that it
will result in a denial of such compensation for the property within the State used in commerce intrastate and
interstate. The sole test prescribed is that abandonment be consistent with public necessity and convenience.
In determining whether it is, the Commission must have
regard to the needs of both intrastate and interstate commerce. For it was a purpose of Transportation Act, 1920,
to establish and maintain adequate service for both. Wisconsin Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 585, 587, 589; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; Dayton-Goose Creek
Ry. Co. v. UnitedStates, 263 U. S. 456, 485; United States
v. Village of Hubbard,266 U. S. 474. The benefit to one
of the abandonment must be weighed against the inconvenience and loss to which the other will thereby be subjected. Conversely, the benefits to particular communities and commerce of continued operation must be weighed
against the burden thereby imposed upon other commerce. Compare Proposed Abandonment by Boston &
Maine R. R., 105 I. C. C. 13, 16. The result of this
weighing-the judgment of the Commission-is expressed
by its order granting or denying the certificate.
It is rare that the application for leave to abandon actually involves a conflict between the needs of interstate
and of intrastate commerce. In many cases, it is clear
that the extent of the whole traffic, the degree of dependence of the communities directly affected upon the particular means of transportation, and other attendant conditions, are such that the carrier may not justly be required to continue to bear the financial loss necessarily
entailed by operation.2 In some cases, although the vol2

See e. g., Abandonment, etc., by Southern Pacific Co., 72 I. C. C.

404.

COLORADO v. UNITED STATES.
153

Opinion of the Court.

ume of the whole traffic is small, the question is whether
abandonment may justly be permitted, in view of the fact
that it would subject the communities directly affected to
serious injury while continued operation would impose a
relatively light burden upon a prosperous carrier.' The
problem and the process are substantially the same in
these cases as where the conflict is between the needs of
intrastate and of interstate commerce. Whatever the
precise nature of these conflicting needs, the determination is made upon a balancing of the respective intereststhe effort being to decide what fairness to all concerned
demands. In that balancing, the fact of demonstrated
prejudice to interstate commerce and the absence of earnings adequate to afford reasonable compensation are, of
course, relevant and may often be controlling. But the
Act does not make issuance of the certificate dependent
upon a specific finding to that effect.
An examination of the extensive record and of the three
opinions of the Commission convinces us that no relevant
fact was ignored, that there was ample evidence to support the facts found, and that the judgment of the Commission was not improperly influenced by the offer to lease
the line to the protestants at a nominal rental. The case
at bar is unlike Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 258
U. S. 204. There, the railroad was permitted to be relieved only from continuing operations in interstate commerce. It was being operated independently, and not as
a branch of any railroad engaged in interstate commerce.
3 Compare Application of Green Bay & Western R. R. Co., 70
I. C. C. 251; Abandonment of White-Cloud Big Rapids Branch, etc.,
72 I. C. C. 303; Proposed Abandonment of Lincoln Branch, etc.,
94 I. C. C. 624, with Abandonment, etc., Oregon Trunk Ry., 72 I. C. C.
679; Abandonment of Branch Line by Pere Marquette Ry., 90 I. C. C.
100; Abandonment, etc., by CentralNew England Ry. Co., 94 I. C. C.
405; Abandonment, etc., by Coudersport & Port Albany R. R. Co.,
99 I. C. C. 310; Abandonment, etc., by Chicago & Northwestern Ry.
Co., 105 I. C. C. 273.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

271 U. S.

Losses incurred in its operation would not be reflected in
the accounts of any interstate carrier; and no interstate
carrier would have had to make good deficits so incurred.
Its continued operation could not burden or prejudice interstate commerce, for the Commission in issuing its certificate had adjudged that public necessity and convenience did not demand the continuance of its interstate
services.
Affirmed.
BOWERS, COLLECTOR, v. KERBAUGH-EMPIRE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 173.

Argued January 25, 1926.-Decided May 3, 1926.

Plaintiff borrowed money from a bank in Germany before the War,
repayable in marks or their equivalent in gold coin of the United
States, lost the borrowed money in business, and repaid the loan
to the Alien Property Custodian in 1921, when marks had greatly
depreciated, the amount of the depreciation, however, being less
than the losses sustained on the entire transaction. Held that the
difference, resulting from the depreciation, between the amount
borrowed and the amount repaid, in American money, was not
taxable as "income." P. 173.
300 Fed. 938, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court recovered
by the Company from the Collector in an action for
money paid under protest as income tax.
Assistant Attorney General Wilieblandt, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Sewall Key, A. W.
Gregg, and F. W. Dewart were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
The cash gain realized by plaintiff as the result of borrowing foreign money and discharging its debt at a rate
of exchange lower than that at which the loan was made

