OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

271 U. S.

HAY v. MAY DEPARTMENT STORES COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 292. Submitted April 29, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
1. A motion to remand upon the ground that the suit is not removable from the state court raises a question of the jurisdiction
of the District Court, reviewable under Jud. Code, ยง 238, where
the motion was denied and the suit dismissed upon plaintiff's failure
to comply with a rule for security for costs. P. 321.
2. An action brought in a state court against two defendants jointly,
in which the plaintiff states a case of joint liability arising out of
the concurrent negligence of the defendants, does not present a
separable controversy authorizing the removal of the cause to a
federal court, even though the plaintiff might have sued the
defendants separately; the allegations of the complaint being
decisive as to the nature of the controversy in the absence of a
showing that one of the defendants was fraudulently joined for
the purpose of preventing the removal. P. 321.
Reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing
a suit for personal injuries, for failure of the plaintiff to
give security for costs, after his motion to remand it to
the state court where it originated had been overruled.

Messrs. James J. O'Donohoe, Mark D. Eagleton, and
Harry S. Rooks for plaintiff in error.
Messrs, Robert A. Holland, Jr., and Jacob 3l. Lashly for
defendant in error, The May Department Stores Company.
Where a suit for personal injuries is filed in a state court
against two defendants, and each is charged with committing separate and distinct acts of negligence, some of
which affect only the non-resident defendant and others
of which affect only the resident defendant, no joint cause
of action is stated against the two, and a separable con-

HAY v. MAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

318

troversy is presented which entitles the non-resident defendant to removal. Cayce v. Southern Ry. Co., 195 Fed.
786; Nichols v. C. & 0. Ry. Co., 195 Fed. 913; Shaver v.
Pacific Coast Milk Co., 185 Fed. 316; Bainbridge Gro. Co.
v. A. C. L. R. R. Co., 182 Fed. 276; Addersonr v. Southern
Ry. Co., 177 Fed. 571; Evansberg v. Insurance Stove Co.,
168 Fed. 1001; Fergason v. C. M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 63
Fed. 177; Grimm v. Globe PrintingCo., 232 S. W. 676.
It appears from the averments of the petition that the
sole proximate cause of the alleged injuries was an alleged
act of negligence on the part of one of said defendants.
That being so. no joint cause of action is stated against the
two defendants and, therefore, a separable controversy is
presented which entitles the non-resident defendant to
the removal of the case. Smith v. Johnson, 219 Mass.
142; Graeff v. Phil. R. R. Co., 161 Pa. 230; Cole v. German Society, 124 Fed. 113; Parkington v. Abraham, 183
N. Y. 553; Teis v. Smuggler Mining Co., 158 Fed. 260.
*MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents a question as to the jurisdiction of
the District Court arising under the provision of ยง 28
of the Judicial Code that: When there is pending in a
state court any civil suit of which the district courts of
the United States are given original jurisdiction, in which
"there shall be a controversy which is wholly between
citizens of different States, and which can be fully determined as between them, then either one or more of the
defendants actually interested in such controversy may
remove said suit into the district court of the United
States for the proper district."
The suit was brought by Hay, a citizen of Missouri,
in the Circuit Court of St. Louis, against the Stores Company, a New York corporation, and McCormick, a citizen of Missouri, to recover damages for personal injuries.
9.540*-26---4

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

The petition alleged that the plaintiff and McCormick
were employed by the Stores Company in its place of
business in Missouri, in moving loaded trucks along a
tunnel or passageway on its premises; that the company
negligently permitted this passageway to become strewn
with d6bris, and negligently required its employees to
push heavily loaded trucks along the passageway, unassisted, rapidly, and at short and unsafe intervals; that
McCormick, who was not a reasonably safe co-employee,
habitually pushed his truck at an unsafe speed, in dangerous proximity to the preceding truck, and without exercising reasonable care to avoid a collision; that, although the company knew or by the exercise of ordinary
care could have known of these dangerous and negligent
habits, it negligently caused and permitted him to continue to perform his duties in this negligent and unsafe
manner; that on the day of the accident, while the plaintiff was engaged in pushing a loaded truck along the
passageway, it was suddenly stopped by debris obstructing the passageway, and he was struck by a loaded truck
which McCormick was negligently pushing, close behind
him, at a rapid rate of speed, and which "the defendants " negligently failed to stop or divert so as to avoid
the collision; and "that the negligence of both defendants as aforesaid concurred and jointly co~perated to
cause, and did directly and proximately cause, the aforesaid collision," from which the plaintiff sustained serious
and permanent injuries, to his damage in the sum of
$15,000.
The Stores Company in due time presented to the Circuit Court its petition for the removal of the cause to
the District Court. The sole ground alleged for the removal was that the plaintiff's petition showed "upon its
face" that there was "a separable controversy" in the
cause between the plaintiff and the Stores Company,
citizens of different States, in that, under its allegations,

HAY v. MAY CO.
318

Opinion of the Court.

whatever the previous negligence of the Stores Company,
the negligent failure of McCormick to stop or divert his
truck so as to avoid the collision, was "the sole proximate
cause" of the collision and of the plaintiff's injuries, and
that "hence" no joint cause of action was stated against
the defendants. The Circuit Court on this petition
ordered the removal.
After the record had been filed in the District Court
the plaintiff filed a motion to remand the cause to the
Circuit Court, on the ground that it appeared upon the
face of the record that the petition for removal was insufficient and the District Court had not acquired jurisdiction of the cause. This motion was overruled; to
which the plaintiff excepted. Thereafter, on motion of
the Stores Company, the court ordered the plaintiff to
furnish security for costs within a specified time; and
upon his failure to comply with this rule, the suit was
dismissed, at his costs.
To obtain a review of the ruling on the jurisdictional
question presented by the motion to remand, the plaintiff
applied for a direct writ of error from this court. This
was allowed by the District Judge in February, 1925,
under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code; and in that connection
he duly certified for decision the single question whether,
upon the record, the District Court acquired jurisdiction
of the cause by the removal based upon a separable controversy. This question is now properly before us for
review. Wilson v. Republic Iron Co., 257 U. S. 92, 96.
It is well settled by the decisions of this court, that an
action brought in a state court against two defendants
jointly, in which the plaintiff states a case of joint liability
arising out of the concurrent negligence of the defendants,
does not present a separable controversy authorizing the
removal of the cause to a federal court, even though the
plaintiff might have sued the defendants separately; the
allegations of the complaint being decisive as to the nature
of the controversy in the absence of a showing that one
9,542'-26-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

of the defendants was fraudulently joined for the purpose
of preventing the removal. Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Wangelin, 132 U. S. 599, 601; Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway, 169 U. S. 92, 97; Alabama Southern Railway v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, 214; Chicago,
R. I. & Pac. Railway v. Dowell, 229 U. S. 102, 111; McAllister v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway, 243 U. S. 302, 310;
Chicago & Alton Railroadv. McWhirt, 243 U. S. 422, 425.
This rule was applied in the Dowell Case, supra, 112,
where a railroad laborer, who had been run down by an
engine, brought suit against the railroad company and the
engineer jointly, alleging in his petition that the defective
character of the engine, the unfitness and incompetency
of the engineer, and his negligence and carelessness in
needlessly running the engine over the plaintiff, "concurrently and jointly contributed" to the injuries. So, in
the present case, the plaintiffs' petition alleged in substance that the negligence of the Stores Company in permitting the passageway to become obstructed, in requiring
the employees to operate their trucks in an unsafe manner, and, specifically, in permitting McCormick, an unsafe
co-employee, to handle his truck in a negligent and dangerous manner, directly concurred and jointly co~perated
with McCormick's negligence in causing the plaintiff's injuries. It is clear that this petition stated on its face a
case of joint liability arising from concurrent acts of
negligence on the part of the defendants, coSperating to
cause the injuries, and that it presented no separable controversy with the Stores Company within the established
rule applicable in such cases.
The petition of the Stores Company, therefore, showed
no ground for the removal to the District Court, and no
jurisdiction was acquired under it.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded to
the District Court with direction to remand it to the
Circuit Court of St. Louis.
Reversed and remanded.

