UNITED STATES v. WYCKOFF CO.
259

Syllabus.

riod of detention were introduced in respect to some cars
by the National Car Demurrage Rules. See Rule 7.Demurrage Charges, sections A and B. They were widely
applied while the railroads were under federal control.
See General Orders of the Director General Nos. 3, 7,
and 7a. Bulletin No. 4, Revised (1919), pp. 146, 151;
Supplement to Bulletin, Revised (1920), p. 44. The
power to impose such charges, if reasonable, is clear.
Those here in question have been found by the Commission to be reasonable. It is not claimed that there was
no evidence to support the finding. Compare Louisiana
& Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 114.
The further contentions are that there was a denial of
due process of law because the so-called penalty was
imposed without notice; and that there was a denial of
equal protection of the laws, because the charge was
applicable only to cars loaded with lumber. The demurrage charge is, however, a tariff provision and not a
penal law, and thus the tariff duly filed charges the shipper with the requisite notice. And neither the Constitution nor the rule of reason requires that either freight
or demurrage charges or the reconsignment privilege
shall be the same for all commodities. We find no reason
to disturb the basis of the Commission's classification.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. WYCKOFF PIPE & CREOSOTING COMPANY, INC.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 282.

Argued April 29, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. Where a contractor with the Government completed the job under
the contract, reserving the right to claim damages due to long
delays by the Government in performing its part, the measure of
such damages was not the difference between the contract price

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

and the higher market value of the work at time of performance,
but the loss actually sustained by the contractor as the result of
the delay. P. 266.
2. In computing such damages, held that the contractor could not be
allowed the difference between the cost of supplies bought and
held for the work under the contract, and the higher market price
they had acquired by the time when they were used in it, in the
absence of evidence that this was the measure of the loss. P. 267.
59 Ct. Cls. 980, reversed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims allowing damages for delay in performance of the claimant's
contract due to the fault of the United States.
APPEAL

Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor GeneralMitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Harvey D. Jacob for appellee.
MR. JusTicE, BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Wyckoff Pipe & Creosoting Co., Inc., contracted
with the United States, in December, 1917, to lay creosoted wood block floors in Navy Yard buildings at Norfolk, Virginia, furnishing all necessary labor and materials. On a part of the job the contractor was to begin
the work immediately after delivery of a copy of the contract. This part was to be completed within 30 days
thereafter. On other parts, work was to be deferred until
such time as the Government was ready to proceed.
These parts were to be finished within 43 days from the
dates on which they were begun. The flooring was to be
set in a concrete base which was to be laid promptly by
the Government. The contractor prepared itself immediately to perform the contract. Among other things, it
purchased the lumber and creosote oil needed for the job.
Long delays by the Government in furnishing the con-

UNITED STATES v. WYCKOFF CO.
263

265

Opinion of the Court.

crete bases prevented performance by the contractor.
Thus more than two years elapsed before the work was
completed. The contractor was without fault.
The Government's delays confessedly caused the contractor some loss. For the loss so suffered the Government was confessedly liable. It made payment at the
fixed contract rate of $2.26 per square yard-and paid an
additional amount, also provided by the contract, equal
to 50 per cent. of the estimated increase in the labor cost.
It paid nothing otherwise on account of the damages
caused by its delay. To recover compensation for the
loss suffered, this suit on the contract was brought in the
Court of Claims in January, 1923. That court assessed
the damages at $10,122.99; and for that amount it
entered judgment, without an opinion, on June 2, 1924.
59 Ct. Cl. 980. The case is here on appeal under ยง 242
of the Judicial Code. The only question presented is
whether there was error in the measure of damages
adopted.
The findings of fact recite that the contractor, in reserving its right to claim damages for extras by reason
of the long unanticipated delay, had enumerated as items
of the proposed claim extra labor on account of the advance in the scale of wages, extra expense by reason of
renewal premiums on surety company bonds, additional
freight rates on sand and other material, additional cost
of sand, additional cost of creosote oil, storage, insurance,
and carrying charges "on a large stock of lumber purchased for the account of your contract and carried in
our yard for a space of between one and two years." The
findings also recite that the record does not disclose by
items the amount of extra expense incurred by the contractor by reason of the lengthy delay in the performance
of the work. The court made no finding or estimate of
the loss so incurred. It found merely that the increase
in the prevailing market price of lumber from the time

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

that used was bought by the contractor until it, was actually employed on the job was $6,021.23; that the increase in the prevailing market price of the creosote oil
required from the time it was purchased for the job until
it actually was so used amounted to $712.59; that the
reasonable value of the contract work per square yard at
the time it was actually performed was, for a part $2.68,
for a part $2.98, and for the rest $3.28; and that the
reasonable value of the whole work at the time it was
done by the contractor, based upon prices then paid by
the Government on other work then done at the Navy
Yard, was $9,936.54 in excess of the amount which the
contractor had received. It was for this sum of $9,936.54,
plus an item of $186.45 about which there is no dispute,
that the Court of Claims entered its judgment of
$10,122.99
The Government contends that recovery cannot be
had on the contract for the higher market value of the
work at the time it was actually performed; that the correct measure of damages for its delay is the loss actually
sustained by the contractor as the result of the delay,
United States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214; United States v.
Mueller, 113 U. S. 153; Ripley v.United States, 223 U. S.
695; that the increase in the market value of materials
purchased for use on the contract cannot be deemed a
loss; and that to assess damages on the basis of the value
of the work at the time it was performed was, in effect,
to make a new contract for the parties or to allow recovery as upon quantum meruit. The contention is, in
our opinion, well founded.
The contractor urges that the long delay was a breach
which would have justified it in terminating the contract
and refusing to do the work except under a new one at an
increased price. But, despite a contention to the contrary, it did not do this. It completed the work under
the contract as originally made. It did not attempt to

UNITED STATES v. WYCKOFF CO.
213

Opinion of the Court.

make a new contract, or to modify the existing one. It
sought merely to reserve its right to make a claim for the
damages resulting from the Government's delay. After
completing performance it brought this suit declaring on
the original contract.
The contractor urges also that, because of the delay, it
might have used the supplies purchased on another job,
receiving on that their then market value, or might have
sold them and taken the incidental profit due to the rise
in values; and that, if it had done either and had been
obliged later to purchase new supplies at the higher
market values in order to perform the Government job,
the increased cost would have been recoverable as a loss;
and that, as the amount of this increase has been found,
the recovery should be sustained at least to that extent.
The contractor's contentions, however, ignore the rule
that damages for delay are limited to the actual losses
incurred. The contractor elected to hold itself in readiness to perform its contract and to this end to retain both
the lumber and the creosote oil. The carrying charges
thus incurred are an allowable item of damage; but these
were not shown. It may even be that in the event of a
use or resale of the supplies, if under the circumstances
such a course of action was open to the contractor, the
profits made would have been available in reduction of
damages. Compare Erie County Natural Gas & Fuel Co.
v. Carroll, [1911] A. C. 105. But clearly it cannot now
charge as a loss profits which it might have made if it
had sold the supplies in the market or used them on
another job.
It is argued that the Court of Claims is under no obligation when assessing damages to specify the elements
of the calculation by which it arrives at its results; that
itemization is often impossible; and that, like a jury, the
court may make an estimate and return such sum as the
damages recoverable, compare United States v. Smith, 94

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

271 U. S.

U. S. 214, 219; and that, accepting the rule that damages
are to be limited to actual loss, the award of the lower
court is to be regarded as an estimate of such loss. But,
in the case at bar, the court did not pursue that course.
It made no estimate of the loss suffered. It found merely
the increase in value of the work at the time it was performed and the increase in value of the material during
the period of the delay. Then it found and concluded,
as a matter of law, that the excess of the reasonable value
of the work at the time it was done over the amount paid
therefor, was recoverable as damages. This was error.
The judgment must be reversed. As there are no findings from which the amount of the loss can be determined,
the case is remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.

WESTERN PAPER MAKERS' CHEMICAL COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 312.

Argued May 4, 5, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. The determination by the Interstate Commerce Commission of the
question whether a rate is reasonable or discriminatory is conclusive if supported by substantial evidence, in the absence of any
irregularity in the proceeding or error in applying the rules of
law. P. 271.

2. The Commission is not hampered by mechanical rules governing
the weight or effect of evidence. The mere admission of matter
which under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceeding would be incompetent does not invalidate its order. P. 271.
3. The Commission has power to require the abandonment of through
routes which, under a revision of through rates on a commodity,
would violate the long-and-short-haul clause of ยง 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 272.
7 Fed. (2d) 164, affirmed.

