JAYBIRD MINING CO. v. WEIR.
Statement of the Case.

603

We fairly may assume, in the absence of any evidence
to the contrary, that, in fixing the allowance to be paid
to the land-grant roads at eighty per cent. of the fair and
reasonable compensation to be paid railroads generally,
Congress has given due weight to all the circumstancesnot only to the kind and character of the service, but to
the fact that the companies are required to furnish all
facilities incidental thereto. In any event, it was for
Congress to say what reduction should be made from the
amount of full compensation in consideration of the land
grants; and its action in that respect is not open to judicial
review.
Judgment affirmed.
JAYBIRD MINING COMPANY v. WEIR, COUNTY
TREASURER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 293.

Argued April 29, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. Where mining land owned by incompetent Quapaw Indians under
a patent subject to a restriction against alienation, was leased
on their behalf with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under the Act of June 7, 1897, to a mining company in consideration of a royalty or percentage of the gross proceeds to be
derived from sale of ores mined, a state ad valorem tax assessed
to the lessee on ores mined and in the bins on the land, before
sale and when the royalties or equitable interests of the Indians
had not been paid or segregated, is void, as an attempt to tax
an agency of the Federal Government. P. 612.
2. Judgment of state court held reviewable by writ of error, and
certiorari denied. P. 614.
104 Okla. 271, reversed.

EmoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma which reversed a judgment for the Mining Company in a suit to recover a tax, paid under protest.
J542'--26-39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

271 U. S.

Mr. A. Scott Thompson, with whom Messrs. A. C. Wallace, Vern E. Thompson, and Ray McNaughton were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John H. Venable, with whom Messrs. A. L. Commons and Win. H. Thomas were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
The United States Government has nothing to do with
the organization of the mining company inxolved in this
case. All the interest it has is to collect the royalties
after the lead and zinc ore has been sold or its value
ascertained-not in kind but in money. And, on failure
of the mining company to comply with its lease, the Government may bring suit for the Indian for the royalty;
and, for a failure to operate the mine in the manner provided, it may forfeit the lease. The State can tax even
the operation of the mining company, where it is operating on land other than restricted Indian land, and the
Government could as easily say you are placing a burden
on an instrumentality.
No tangible property is ever exempt from taxation
without some constitutional or statutory provision specifically exempting it; never by implication. McCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 116. What we are attempting in
this case is to require a visible, tangible and very valuable
class of property, found with the great mass of the property of the State, to bear its just burden of ad valorem
taxation along with other property in the State of the
same class, and all other tangible property. Territory
Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522, and
Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 259 U. S. 501, distinguished. No
such case has been passed on by this Court where there
was specific tangible property involved. Cf. Shaffer v.
Carter, 252 U. S. 37; In re Skelton Lead & Zinc Co.'s
Gross ProductionTax of 1919, 81 Okla. 134.
Ore extracted from rock or dirt after it is brought from
the mine is the personal property of the person or corpora-

JAYBIRD MINING CO. v. WEIR.
609

Opinion of the Court.

tion who has extracted it. Forbes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762;
Kans. Nat'l. Gas Co. v. Haskell, 172 Fed. 545; Thomson
v. Union Pac. Ry. Co., 9 Wall. 579. We have no doubt
that Congress could authorize the creation of a corporation to mine for lead and zinc ores on restricted Indian
lands, and specifically exempt any and all its property
from state taxation, and might authorize the leasing of
the land to corporations and thus exempt all the property
of such a corporation, including the products of its mines;
but we believe that, if such extreme regulation had been
intended by the Acts of Congress, under which the petitioner holds its leases, the intention would have been expressed. Van, Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; Bradley v.
People, 4 Wall. 459. There is a clear distinction between
the means employed by the Government and the property of agents of the Government in the performance of
contracts with the Government. Thomson v. Union Pac.
Ry. Co., 9 Wall. 579; Gromer v. Standard Dredging Co.,
224 U. S. 362; Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264; Union Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; Central Pac. R. R. Co. v.
California, 162 U. S. 91; Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S. 226;
Forbes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762; Utah & N. W. Ry. Co. v.
Fisher,116 U. S. 28; Marocipa & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Arizona,
156 U. S. 347; Wagoner v. Evans, 194 U. S. 588; Montana
CatholicMissions v. Missoula County Assessor, 200 U. S.
118; Choctaw, 0. & G. R. R. Co. v. Harrison,235 U. S.
292; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The mining company sued in the District Court of
Ottawa County to recover a tax of $2,319.80 paid under
protest. The County Treasurer demurred to the petition
asserting that it failed to state a cause of action. The
demurrer was overruled, and judgment was given for the
plaintiff. On appeal to the highest court of the State the

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

judgment was reversed. 104 Okla. 271. The case is here
on writ of error. ยง 237, Judicial Code.
Briefly the facts are these. September 26, 1896, pursuant to the Act of March 2, 1895, c. 188, 28 Stat. 876,
907, there was issued to Hum-bah-wat-tah Quapaw, a
Quapaw Indian, a patent for an allotment of 40 acres of
land in Ottawa County. The patent contained restrictions against alienation for twenty-five years, and by the
Act of March 3, 1921, c. 119, 41 Stat. 1225, 1248, that
period was extended for an additional twenty-five years.
The land is owned by the heirs of the allottee. The company has a mining lease on the restricted land on terms
which provide for the payment of royalties or a percentage of the gross proceeds derived from the sale of ores
mined. The amount sued for is an ad valorem tax
assessed by the county officials under ยง 9814, Compiled
Statutes of 1921, on lead and zinc ores mined by the company in 1920, and which were in its bins on the land January 1, 1921. This tax is in addition to a gross production
tax paid to the State Auditor. It was assessed on the ores
in mass; and the royalties or equitable interests of the
Indians had not been paid or segregated. Prior to the
production of the ores taxed, the Secretary of the Interior
determined the Indian owners to be incapable of managing their property and assumed control of it in their
behalf. Act of June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30 Stat. 62, 72. Since
that time, the royalties have been paid directly to the
Secretary.
The Quapaw Indians are under the guardianship of the
United States. The land and Indian owners are bound
by restrictions specified in the patent and the Acts referred to. It is the duty and established policy of the
government to protect these dependents in respect of
their property. The restrictions imposed are in furtherance of that policy. United States v. Noble, 237 U. S. 74;
Goodrum v. Buffalo, 162 Fed. 817. The lessee is an

JAYBIRD MINING CO. v. WEIR.
609

Opinion of the Court.

agency or instrumentality employed by the government
for the development and use of the restricted land and to
mine ores therefrom for the benefit of its Indian wards.
Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292. It is
elementary that the federal government in all its activities is independent of state control. This rule is broadly
applied. And, without congressional consent, no federal
agency or instrumentality can be taxed by state authority. "With regard to taxation, no matter how reasonable, or how universal and undiscriminating, the State's
inability to interfere has been regarded as established
since McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316." Johnson
v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 51, 55. And see Farmers Bank v.
Minnesota,232 U. S. 516; Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v. Harrison, supra; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 505.
This court has considered a number of cases quite like
the one now before us. In Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v. Harrison, supra, there was an agreement by the United States
that coal lands belonging in common to the members of
the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes should be mined, and
that the royalties should'be used for the Indians. The
State imposed a tax equal to two per centum on the gross
receipts from the total production of coal from the mine.
It was held that it was an occupation or privilege tax, and
that one having a mining lease made in furtherance of
the governmental purpose could not be subjected to that
burden. In Indian Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522,
it was held that oil leases of land made by the Osage tribe
were under the protection of the federal government, and
that the State could not tax such leases either directly
or as represented by the capital stock of the corporation
owning them. It was said (p. 530): "A tax upon the
leases is a tax upon the power to make them, and could
be used to destroy the power to make them. If they cannot be taxed as entities they cannot be taxed vicariously
by taxing the stock, whose only value is their value, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

by taking the stock as an evidence or measure of their
value, . .." In Howard v. The Oil Companies, 247
U. S. 503, this court affirmed, per curiam, the judgment
of the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma enjoining the enforcement of a tax imposed by the State on the gross value of the production
of oil and gas, less the royalty interest, under leases upon
Osage lands made for the benefit of the Indians. In
Large Oil Co. v. Howard, 248 U. S. 549, this court
reversed, per curiam, the judgment of the supreme court
of Oklahoma (63 Okla. 143) sustaining a tax on gross
value of production of petroleum and gas, less the royalty
interest, where the owner of the property sought to be
taxed was engaged under the authority of the Secretary
of the Interior in the production of oil and gas in what
formerly constituted the tribal lands of the Osage Nation.
And in Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra,it was held that the
net income derived by a lessee from the sale of his share
of the oil and gas received under leases of restricted
Creek and Osage lands could not be taxed by the State.
In each of these cases the tax was condemned as an attempt to tax an instrumentality used by the United
States in fulfilling its duties to the Indians.
In this case the lease was made to secure the development of the lands and obtain for the benefit of the restricted Indian owners a percentage of the gross proceeds
of the ores to be mined. The ad valorem tax here in
controversy was assessed on the ores in mass at the mine
before sale, and that was an attempt to tax an agency of
the federal government within the principle of the cases
cited.
From abundance of caution the company presented a
petition for a writ of certiorari; but, as a writ of error
lies, the petition will be denied. Gillespie v. Oklahoma,
supra, 506.
Judgment reversed.

JAYBIRD MINING CO. v. WEIR.
609

BRADEIs,

615

J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the effect
of the assailed tax upon the instrumentality of the United
States is remote and tax is valid under the doctrine in Central Pac.R. R. v. California, 162 U. S. 91, 119.

MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

dissenting.

The property taxed is lead and zinc ore in bins. The
land from which the ore was extracted belongs to a Quapaw allottee under the Act of March 2, 1895, c. 188, 28
Stat. 876, 907. Restrictions on alienation of the land will
not expire until 1946. Act of March 3, 1921, c. 119, ยง 26,
41 Stat. 1225, 1248. But the allottee may lease the land
for mining and business purposes for ten years unless he
is incompetent, in which case the power to lease is vested
in the Secretary of the Interior. Act of June 7, 1897, c.
3, 30 Stat. 62, 72. The ore in question had been detached
from the soil and is personal property. It is owned wholly
by the Mining Company, a private Oklahoma corporation
organized for profit. The ore is assessed under the general laws of the State which lays an ad valorem property
tax on all property, real or personal, not exempt by law
from taxation. Payment of the tax will not affect the
financial return to the Indian under the lease. No state
legislation exempts this property. There is no specific or
general provision in any act of Congress which purports
to do so. If an exemption exists, it arises directly from
the Federal Constitution. Does ownership by an incompetent Indian of the land from which the ore was taken
or ownership of the ore by an instrumentality of the Government create an exemption?
Is the ore exempt because it has been extracted out of
restricted lands? The Quapaw might have conducted the
mining operations himself. If he had been competent he
might, without the approval of the Secretary of the Inte-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
BRANxDEIS, J., dissenting.

271 U. S.

rior have leased the land to others for mining purposes
for a period of ten years. If he had operated the mine
himself, I see no ground on which it could be held that
his ore in the bins would not have been taxable to him,
like any other unrestricted property to which he had absolute title.' The fact that he was incompetent does not
render such property exempt from taxation.' Such incompetency results simply in the imposition of restrictions upon the alienation of his realty, exempting that
from taxation. The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737. But
such restrictions cannot by implication be deemed to extend to personalty, even though the product of the realty,
so as to exempt them from taxation. Compare McCurdy
v. United States, 246 U. S. 263; United States v. Gray,
284 Fed. 103; United States v. Ransom, 284 Fed. 108.
Any exemption that attached to the land is limited thereto
and does not extend to the ore extracted therefrom.
Forbes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762, 765-766. Compare South
Utah Mines v. Beaver County, 262 U. S. 325.
Is the ore exempt because it is the property of an
agency employed by the Government for the benefit of
the Indian, its ward? We are not dealing here with
property owned by the United States as in Van Brocklin
v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, or Lee v. Osceola, etc., Improvement District, 268 U. S. 643; nor with an agency
all of whose property was acquired and is used solely for
the purpose of serving the Government as in Clallam
County v. United States, 263 U. S.341. We are dealing
with a private "corporation having its own purposes as
well as those of the United States and interested in profit

I Pennock
U.2 S. 146.

v. Commissioners, 103 U. S. 44; Goudy v. Meath, 203

Keokuk v. Ulam, 4 Okia. 5. The exemption granted the personalty of the Indians in United States v. Rickerts, 188 U. S. 432,
and in United States v. Pearson,231 Fed. 270, rested upon the express
ground that title to the property was held by the United States in
trust for the Indians.

JAY-BIRD MINING CO. v. WEIR.
609

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

on its own account," ibid, p. 345. And we are dealing
with a property tax, as distinguished from an occupation
tax. Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf Ry. Co. v. Harrison,
235 U. S. 292; Oklahoma v. Texas, 266 U. S. 298, 301.
Whether, under the circumstances, Congress had power to
exempt the ore from the general property tax, we need
not consider. It has not done so in terms; and I see no
reason for assuming that it intended to do so. Compare
Mid-Northern Oil Co. v. Montana, 268 U. S. 45, 49;
Thompson v. Kentucky, 209 U. S.340; Swarts v. Hamer,
194 U. S.441.
In 1873 this Court said: "It may, therefore, be considered as settled that no constitutional implications prohibit a State tax upon the property of an agent of the
government merely because it is the property of such an
agent." Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 33. The
rule there applied with respect to a railroad incorporated
under a federal charter has since been followed as to other
federal instrumentalities also. Western Union Tel. Co.
v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S.530; Central Pacific Railroad
Co. v. California, 162 U. S. 91; Baltimore Shipbuilding
Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375; Gromer v. Standard
Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362; Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf
Ry. Co. v. Mackey,.256 U. S.531, 537. Compare Thompson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579; National Bank v.
Commonwealth,9 Wall. 353, 362. It has been specifically
applied to agencies, such as this mining company, whose
employment was in aid of the Government's policy of
protecting and developing the properties of its Indian
wards. Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S.264; Wagoner v. Evans,
170 U. S.588; Catholic Missions v. Missoula County, 200
U. S.118. Those decisions seem to me controlling in the
case at bar.
The rule that the property of a privately owned government agency is not exempt from state taxation rests
fundamentally upon the principle that such a tax has
only a remote relation to the capacity of such agencies

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

271 U. S.

efficiently to serve the Government.3 Such a tax, as distinguished from an occupation or privilege tax, does not
impose a charge upon the privilege of acting as a government agent and thereby enable a State to control the
power of the Federal Government to employ agents and
the power of persons to accept such employment. The
tax is levied as a charge by the State for rendering services
relating to the protection of the property, which services
are rendered alike to agents of the Government and of
private persons. Such a tax cannot be deemed to be
capable of deterring the entry of persons as agents into
the employ of the Government. Conceivably an operating company might pay a higher royalty or bonus if it
were assured that it would enjoy immunity from taxation
for the small quantity of the year's output of the mine
which might be in the ore bins on the day as of which
property is assessed. Conceivably also, the cattle owner
in Thomas v. Gay, supra,might have paid higher for the
grazing rights if the cattle while on the reservation were
immune from taxation. But, in either case, the effect
of the immunity, if any, upon the Indian's financial return
would be remote and indirect. If we are to regard
realities we should treat it as negligible.
3 "It is, therefore, manifest that exemption of Federal agencies
from State taxation is dependent, not upon the nature of the agents,
or upon the mode of their constitution, or upon the fact that they are
agents, but upon the effect of the tax; that is, upon the question
whether the tax does in truth deprive them of power to serve the
government as they were intended to serve it, or does hinder the
efficient exercise of their power. A tax upon their property has no
such necessary effect. It leaves them free to discharge the duties
they have undertaken to perform. A tax upon their operations is a
direct obstruction to the exercise of Federal powers." Railroad Co.
v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 36. See T. R. Powell, "Indirect Encroachment on Federal Authority by the Taxing Powers of the States," 31
Harvard Law Rev. 321, 327; J. H. Cohen and K. Dayton, "Federal
Taxation of State Activities and State Taxation of Federal Activities,"

34 Yale Law Journ. 807.

JAYBIRD MINING CO. v. WEIR.
609

BIA'DEIs, J., dissenting.

The difference in the legal effect of acts which are remote causes and of those which are proximate pervades
the law. The power of a State to tax property and its
lack of power to tax the occupation in which it is used
exist in other connections. In Baltimore Shipbuilding
Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375, 382, where the State had
levied a tax upon property conveyed by the United States
to the Shipbuilding Company on the condition that it
construct a dry dock there for the use of the United States
and that, if such dry dock were not kept in repair, the
property should revert to the United States, this Court
said: "But, furthermore, it seems to us extravagant to
say that an independent private corporation for gain,
created by a State, is exempt from state taxation, either
in its corporate person, or its property, because it is employed by the United States, even if the work for which
it is employed is important and takes much of its time."
I suspect that my brethren would agree with me in sustaining this tax on ore in the bins but for Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501. The question there involved
was different. Any language in the opinion which may
seem apposite to the case at bar, should be disregarded
as inconsistent with the earlier decisions. It is a peculiar
virtue of our system of law that the process of inclusion
and exclusion, so often employed in developing a rule, is
not allowed to end with its enunciation and that an expression in an opinion yields later to the impact of facts
unforeseen. The attitude of the Court in this respect
has been especially helpful when called upon to adjust
the respective powers of the States and the Nation in the
4
field of taxation.
4 See Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506, qualifying Texas
Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256
U. S. 642; Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S. 444; Standard
Oil Co. v. Graves, 249 U. S. 389; also Galveston, Harrisburg & San
Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 226, qualifying Maine v.

