OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

271 U.S.

jurisdiction of the subject matter and therefore that the
decree of dismissal was put on an untenable ground.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

did not participate in the

consideration or decision of this case.
SPERRY GYROSCOPE COMPANY v. ARMA ENGINEERING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROMJ: THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 239.

Argued April 15, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

In a suit in the District Court against a private party for infringements of a patent, alleged to have been committed, and to be
threatened, by manufacture of the patented articles for and their
sale to the United States, the question whether the plaintiff's remedy
is confined by the Act of July 1, 1918, to a suit against the United
States in the Court of Claims, goes to the merits, and is not a
ground for dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction. P. 234.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a. decree of the District Court in a patent
infringement suit, dimissing the bill for want of jurisdiction.

Messrs. D. Anthony Usina and Melville Church, with
whom Mr. Herbert H. Thompson was on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, with whom Messrs. Charles
Neave, W. Brown Morton, and R. Morton Adams were
on the brief, for appellee.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. HarryE. Knight
and Henry C. Workman, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, filed a brief as amici curiae, for the United
States.

SPERRY CO. v. ARMA CO.
232
AIR. JUSTICE

Opinion of the Court.

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant brought suit against the Engineering Company, in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of New York, for damages, profits, etc., on account of the manufacture by it of gyroscopic compasses,
covered by patents, for the United States; also for an injunction against further infringements. The allegation
which demands special consideration follows"That the defendant, well knowing the premises but
with intent to injure the plaintiff, to interfere with its
business and to deprive it of the profits derived and to
be derived from making, using and selling said inventions,
has, within the Eastern District of New York and without
the license or consent of plaintiff but against its positive
protest, made a number of gyroscopic compasses for and
sold them to the United States Navy Department under
contract with the said Navy Department, subsequent to
the dates of said patents and within six years next preceding the filing of this complaint, to wit: during the
years 1918 to 1923, all in infringement of the aforesaid
Letters Patent; and that defendant is preparing and
threatening to infringe said patents more extensively by
the manufacture of said infringing apparatus for and its
sale to the United States Navy Department under contract with the said Department and thus to inflict further
injury, damage and loss upon the plaintiff; but to what
extent the defendant has profited by reason of the aforesaid infringement, plaintiff is ignorant and cannot set
forth and prays an account thereof."
The contract with the United States is not set forth.
Whether it undertook to protect them against claims
arising under appellant's patents, or whether the compasses were delivered before or after July 1, 1918, or
whether the arrangement necessarily involved an infringement of the patents, does not appear.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

The trial court dismissed the bill for lack of jurisdiction, and granted this direct appeal December 30, 1924.
Such appeals were permitted by § 238 Judicial Code"in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in
issue, in which case the question of jurisdiction alone shall
be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below
for decision." We are, now, concerned only with the
power of the trial court to decide the controversy
revealed by the record.
Under § 24 Judicial Code district courts have original
jurisdiction-" Seventh. Of all suits at law or in equity
arising under the patent, the copyright, and the trademark laws." Appellant charged that the Engineering
Company had infringed its patents by making and selling compasses to the United States, under contract, during the years 1918 to 1923, and intended further to infringe by continuing so to do. It asked for damages and
an injunction. But for the allegation that the inventions were made and sold under such a contract, this
would be but the ordinary patent suit. And so the real
question presented is whether that allegation was enough
to deprive the District Court of the jurisdiction plainly
conferred by § 24.
The Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, "to provide additional protection for owners of patents," directed: "That whenever an invention described in and
covered by a patent of the United States shall hereafter
be used by the United States without license of the owner
thereof or lawful right to use the same, such owner may
recover reasonable compensation for such use by suit
in the Court of Claims."
The Act of July 1, 1918, c. 114, 40 Stat. 704, 705,
amended the Act of 1910 to read"That whenever an invention described in and covered
by a patent of the United States shall hereafter be used
or manufactured by or for the United States without

SPERRY CO. v. ARMA CO.
232

Opinion of the Court.

license of the owner thereof or lawful right to use or
manufacture the same, such owner's remedy shall be by
suit against the United States in the Court of Claims for
the recovery of his reasonable and entire compensation
for such use and manufacture: Provided, however, That
said Court of Claims shall not entertain a suit or award
compensation under the provisions of this Act where the
claim for compensation is based on the use or manufacture by or for the United States of any article heretofore
owned, leased, used by, or in the possession of the United
States: Provided further, That in any such suit the
United States may avail itself of any and all defenses,
general or special, that might be pleaded by a defendant
in an action for infringement, as set forth in Title Sixty
of the Revised Statutes, or otherwise; And provided further, That the benefits of this Act shall not inure to any
patentee who, when he makes such claim, is in the employment or service of the Government of the United
States, or the assignee of any such patentee; nor shall
this Act apply to any device discovered or invented by
such employee during the time of his employment or
service."
The argument is that the Act of 1918 deprived the
District Court of jurisdiction over the controversy between the present parties because it limited the patent
owner's remedy, under circumstances like those here disclosed, to a suit against the United States in the Court of
Claims. But we think this contention goes to the merits
of the matter, and not merely to the question of jurisdiction. The true intent and meaning of the statute is not
free from doubt; but certainly there is nothing therein
which shows any clear purpose to take away the power
to decide. It became the duty of the court below to"consider and determine whether, in the circumstances stated,
appellee was relieved of liability and permitted by the
statute to do what otherwise would have constituted a

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

271 U. S.

violation of appellant's rights. There was jurisdiction.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion. See The Pesaro, 255 U. S. 216; Smith v. Apple,
264 U. S. 274; Smyth v. Asphalt Belt Ry., 267 U. S. 326.
Reversed.
MELLON, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. MICHIGAN
TRUST COMPANY, RECEIVER.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 272. Argued April 27, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. In view of § 10 of the Federal Control Act, a claim for transportation charges and for conversion of goods shipped, presented by
the Director General of Railroads against an insolvent who made a
voluntary assignment, is not entitled to the priority granted the
United States by Rev. Stats. § 3466. P. 237.
2. Cause held to be reviewable by certiorari and not by appeal.
P. 240.
2 Fed. (2d) 194, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which sustained the District Court in denying priority of payment to a claim made by the Director General
of Railroads in a suit to wind up affairs of an insolvent
corporation. An appeal also was taken, and is dismissed.

Mr. Sidney F. Andrews, with whom Messrs. A. A. McLaughlin, George M. Clapperton, and Charles M. Owen
were on the brief, for appellant and petitioner.
The claims filed by the Director General were claims
on behalf of the United States. In re Hibner Oil Co.,
264 Fed. 667; In re Tidewater Coal Exch., 280 Fed. 648;
Davis v. Pullen, 277 Fed. 650; Davis v. Miller-Link
Lumber Co., 296 Fed. 649; United States v. ButterworthJudson Corp., 269 U. S. 504; DuPont de Nemours & Co.

