212

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

271 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. MINNESOTA MUTUAL INVESTMENT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 348. Submitted May 6, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

Collection of interest by the United States from a national bank, as
a United States depositary, on a fund belonging to a private
litigant which had been paid into the District Court and deposited
in the bank for safe keeping, did not create a contract upon the
part of the United States to pay over the interest to the owner
of the fund, even if the United States had no right to the interest. P. 217.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment

of the District Court against

the United States in a suit under the Tucker Act.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Gardner P. Lloyd,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief for the United States.
Mr. Edwin H. Park for defendant in error.
The opposing argument is based entirely upon § 5155,
Rev. Stats., which provides for the designations of depositaries of public moneys of the United States. The
Act of May 30, 1908, 35 Stat. 552, provides for rates of
interest upon public funds deposited in such depositaries.
Section 995, Rev. Stats., provides that moneys paid into
the registry are to be deposited with the Treasurer of the
United States or in a designated depositary of the United
States in the name and to the credit of the court. Section 996 provides the same may be withdrawn by the
court, etc.
The complaint charges that the money in controversy
here was deposited in a depositary designated by the
court and not a depositary designated by the Secretary of

UNITED STATES v. MINN. INVESTMENT CO.
212

213

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the Treasury. It was private money in custodia legis and
held subject only to further orders of the court.
Section 251, Rev. Stats., provides that the Secretary
of the Treasury may make rules and regulations relative
to public moneys and officers concerned therewith, and
it is now claimed that the rules and regulations of the
Secretary of. the Treasury promulgated in 1913 requiring
interest to be paid into the Treasury upon all moneys
deposited in registries of the court have the form, force,
and power of the statutes of the United States. This
result may be true when the subject-matter is within the
jurisdiction and within the letter 6f some stdtute, but
there is no statute permitting any officer of the United
States to subject the interest accruing upon private funds
to the dominion of the United States or requiring the
same to be confiscated because the funds happen to be
deposited in the registry of the court.
The government contends there is no contract here,
either express or implied, and therefore the complaint
does not state a cause of action. The rule is, in both
federal and state courts, that where one has received
money which in equity and natural justice belongs to the
plaintiff he may maintain a suit therefor, as upon an implied contract; and it is not necessary that there be any
actual contractual relation. Lipman, Wolf & Co. v.
Phoenix Assur. Co., 258 Fed. 544; Gaines v. Miller, 111
U. S. 395; Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593; Merchants, etc., Bank v. Barnes, 18 Mont. 335; Ela v. Express Co., 29 Wis. 611; Klebe v. United States, 263 U. S.
188; Bayne v. United States, 93 U. S. 643; United States
v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30; Omnia Co. v. United States,
261 U. S. 502.
Interest is an accretion or increment of the fund; and
interest on a fund deposited in court belongs to the fund.
United States v. Mosby, 133 U. S. 273. These moneys
were not public funds and, therefore, did not come within

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

the purview of the regulations of the Secretary. Branch
v. United States, 100 U. S. 673; Coudert v. United States,
175 U. S. 178; United States v. Ferguson, 78 Fed. 103;
Brooks v. Kerr, 223 Fed. 1016; United States v. McMillan, 253 U. S. 195.
Rule 20 of the trial court provides that all interest paid
on deposits shall become part thereof. Interest was paid
on this deposit and under the rule becomes a part of
the fund. Rules of court have the force and effect of
law. Rio Grande Irrig. Co. v. Gildersleeve, 174 U. S.
603. The clerk of the trial court for years prior to 1913
had a contract with the banks to pay interest upon all
funds deposited in the bank which had been paid into
the registry of the court. Hendrick v. Lindsay, 93
U. S. 143.
MR. CHMF JusTicE

TAF delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Minnesota Mutual Investment Company is a corporation of South Dakota, doing business in Colorado. It
sued the United States for $571.26, under the Tucker Act,
Judicial Code, § 24, par. 20. Its claim arises under the
following circumstances. In a cause pending in the
United States District Court for Colorado, the Investment Company was plaintiff, and McGirr and others were
defendants. The plaintiff was required to place in the
registry of the court $15,143.92, which the clerk of the
court immediately deposited in the First National Bank
of Denver, Colorado, designated by the court as one of
its depositaries. The money remained in the bank to the
credit of the court from June 7, 1918, until May 6, 1920,
when it was returned to the Investment Company. During that period the bank paid interest on this deposit of
2 per cent. per annum, semi-annually, into the United
States Treasury for the use of the Government. The

UNITED STATES v. MINN. INVESTMENT CO.
212

215

Opinion of the Court.

petition alleges that, for a long series of years prior to
this, interest paid by the bank on such court funds had
been added to the deposit for the benefit of the party
adjudged to own it, but that, shortly before this deposit,
the Secretary of the Treasury, by regulation, required
all United States depositaries having court funds to pay
interest at 2 per cent. to the Treasurer of the United
States for its use.
The petition avers that the United States was not
interested in the sun of money so deposited, had no right,
title, or interest therein directly or indirectly, and that
the interest so paid was and is the property of the plaintiff and was received by the United States for the use and
benefit of the plaintiff, and judgment was asked therefor.
The United States filed a demurrer to the complaint,
which was overruled. It then answered alleging that the
United States through its proper officers had entered into
a contract concerning the payment of interest upon all
government deposits, including the court funds, carried
with the bank by virture of its designation as a depositary
of the United States, under the regulations promulgated
by the Secretary of the Treasury under authority conferred upon hin by the laws of the United States; that
this contract consisted of an offer made on behalf of the
United States and its acceptance by the First National
Bank by its President; and that, accordingly, $571.26 was
paid to the United States by the Bank; that, in consideration of such payment, the United States allowed the
bank the use of all govermnent deposits held on deposit,
allowed the bank the prestige and advertising connected
with its handling of such government deposits, kept safe
in its custody the collateral security pledged by the bank
to secure the deposits, and supervised the depositary in
all matters in connection with the deposit. Accompanying the answer was the correspondence claimed to em-

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

body the contract between the United States and the
bank. A demurrer to the answer of the defendant was
sustained, and the judgment for $571.26 followed. Direct
appeal to this Court was allowed to the United States
under the Tucker Act (Act of March 3, 1887, §§ 4 and
9, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505,) because taken before the taking
effect of the Act of February 13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936, c.
229, § 14.
Section 995 of the Revised Statutes provides:
."All moneys paid into any court of the United States,
or received by the officers thereof, in any cause pending
or adjudicated in such court, shall be forthwith deposited
with the Treasurer, an assistant treasurer, or a designated
depositary of the United States, in the name and to the
credit of such court: Provided,That nothing herein shall
be construed to prevent the delivery of any such money
upon security, according to agreement of parties, under
the direction of the court."
Rule 20 of the rules of the District Court of Colorado
contains the following:
"1. All moneys brought into court shall be paid to the
clerk of the court, unless the court shall otherwise direct,
and when not immediately paid to the party entitled, be
deposited by said clerk, in his name of office, with such
depositary as may be designated by law, or by the court,
when no place is so designated. The amount so received,
the purpose for which it was paid into court, together
with the fact of the deposit, as herein provided, shall be
noted by the clerk in the civil or criminal dockets of the
court in the particular cause in which it is received. All
interest paid on said deposits shall become a part thereof."
Section 251 of the Revised Statutes provides that the
Secretary of the Treasury may make rules and regulations relative to public moneys and officers concerned
therewith. Section 5153 of the Revised Statutes, as
amended by later acts, provides in effect that all national

UNITED STATES v. MINN. INVESTMENT CO.
212

217

'Opinion of the Court.

bank associations designated for that purpose by the
Secretary of the Treasury shall be depositaries of public
money under such regulations as may be prescribed by
the Secretary, and they are to perform all such reasonable
duties as depositaries of public money as may be required of them. The Secretary is to require them to give
satisfactory security, by the deposit of United States
bonds, for the safe keeping of the public money deposited with them.
The court below found that the Secretary of the Treasury had no power under these two sections to direct
national banks to pay interest on deposits of court funds
to the United States, and that his authority to make such
a regulation for interest extended only to public moneys,
and not to court funds belonging to the parties to the
litigation awaiting adjudication as to ownership or proper
disposition. The conclusion of the court was that the
United States had therefore received interest which
should have been paid to the defendant in error, the Investment Company, and which it may recover from the
United States.
But the Solicitor General argues that, even if the
United States had no right to collect the interest from the
Bank, no cause of action was created in favor of the
Investment Company against the United States for this
illegal collection; that there was no contract of the Government, express or implied, by reason of that collection
to pay it to the Investment Company; and that without
this, no recovery can be had. This seems to us to be
sound reasoning. An implied contract in order to give
the Court of Claims or a district court under the Tucker
Act jurisdiction to give judgment against the Government must be one implied in fact and not one based
merely on equitable considerations and implied in law.
Merritt v. United States, 267 U. S. 338, 340, 341; Tempel
v. United States, 248 U. S. 121;-Sutton v. United States,

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U3. S.

256 U. S. 575, 581. There is nothing in the averments in
the pleadings in this case to show that the officers of the
Government collected this interest or that it was received
into the Treasury for the benefit of the Investment
Company.
The judgment is
Reversed.
CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
NIXON, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 306. Argued May 3, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
A railroad section foreman, one of whose duties was to go over and
inspect the track and keep it in repair, assumed the risk of being
run down by a train while going to his work over a part of the
track that was in his charge, riding (by permission of a superior)
the railway velocipede which he used in track inspections. P. 219.
140 Va. 351, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, which affirmed a recovery of damages in
an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.

Messrs. S. H. Williams and Randolph Harrison, with
whom Mr. A. R. Long was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Duncan Drysdale, with whom Mr. Aubrey E.
Strode was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to recover damages for the death of the
plaintiff's husband, the intestate, from the Railroad Company upon whosetracks the death occurred. The plaintiff, (the respondent here,) obtained a verdict and

