OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

must decide when and how this is to be done. The
accused should first set up and rely upon his defense in
the state courts, even though this involves a challenge
of the validity of some statute, unless it plainly appears
that this course would not afford adequate protection.
The Judicial Code provides ample opportunity for ultimate review here in respect of federal questions. An
intolerable condition would arise if, whenever about to
be charged with violating a state law, one were permitted
freely to contest its validity by an original proceeding in
some federal court. Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman,
266 U. S. 497, 500.
Afirmcd.
ALABAMA & VICKSBURG R.ILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. JACKSON & EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 244. Argued April 16, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
1. Judgment of a state court held reviewable by writ of error.
P. 247.
2. Since the enactment of the Transportation Act, 1920, the jurisdiction to determine whether a junction may be established between the main lines of two railroads, both engaged in interstate
as well as local commerce, is exclusively in the Interstate Commerce

Commission. P. 249.
136 Miss. 726, reversed.

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, which affirmed a dismissal of the
bill in a suit by the Alabama & Vicksburg Railway Company to enjoin proceedings in condemnation, instituted
by the Jackson & Eastern Railway Company to accomplish a connection between its main line and that of the
other company. See also 129 Miss. 437; 131 id. 857, 874.

ALABAMA RY. v. JACKSON RY.
244

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. Blanc Mon roe, with whom Messrs. R. H. Thompson, A. S. Bozeman, S. L. McLaurin, and Monte M. Lemann were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. George B. Neville, with whom Messrs. Marcellus
Green and Hardy R. Stone were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Alabama & Vicksburg Railway and the Jackson &
Eastern Railway are both Mississippi corporations. Each
owns and operates in intrastate and interstate commerce
a railroad within that State. The latter instituted a proceeding under a state law to secure by eminent domain a
connection with the former's line at a point east of the
City of Jackson, called Curran's Crossing. Prior to instituting the eminent domain proceeding the Jackson &
Eastern had secured from the Interstate Commerce Commission a certificate under paragraphs 18-20 of § 1,
authorizing the extension of its road from Sebastapol,
Mississippi, to Jackson. The order made no reference to
Curran's Crossing, or to any connection with the Alabama & Vicksburg. Public Convenience Certificate of
Jackson & Eastern Ry. Co., 70 I. C. C. 110, 495. Thereafter, but also before instituting the eminent domain
proceeding and before building the extension authorized, the Jackson & Eastern applied to the Commission
for an order authorizing it to connect with the main line
of the Alabama & Vicksburg at Curran's Crossing, and
requiring the latter to grant a joint use of its main line
from that point into the City of Jackson. This application, which had apparently been filed under paragraph 9
of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act, was withdrawn
without a hearing. Compare United States v. Baltimore
& Southwestern R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 14. No further
application was made to the Commission.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

By the constitution and statutes of Mississippi a railroad corporation organized under the laws of that State
may "cross, intersect, join, or unite its railroad with any
other railroad heretofore or hereafter constructed at any
points on their routes, and upon the ground of such other
railroad company, with the necessary and proper turnouts, sidings, switches, and other conveniences, and
. . . [may] exercise the right of eminent domain for
that purpose." Constitution of 1890, §§ 184, 190; Hemingway's Code, §§ 6722, 6725, 6728. This right of eminent domain is exercised by proceedings in a special court
which has jurisdiction to determine only the amount of
the damages payable. The special court cannot pass
upon the right of a plaintiff to institute the proceeding
or upon any defense or other objection. Nor can any
such question be raised upon an appeal from the judgment of the special court. The sole remedy of the objecting railroad is a separate proceeding to be brought in a
court of equity. Hemingway's Code, § 1492; Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 234
U. S. 369, 378-380; Vinegar Bend Lumber Co. v. Oak
Grove & G. R. R. Co., 89 Miss. 84; Alabama & Vicksburg
Ry. Co. v. Jackson & Eastern Ry. Co., 131 Miss. 857, 874.
This suit was brought by the Alabama & Vicksburg in
the appropriate Chancery Court of the State to enjoin the
Jackson & Eastern from pursuing the eminent domain
proceeding. The bill alleged willingness to permit a junction, but asserted that the point selected by the defendant
was an improper one, would imperil the safety of life and
property, would burden interstate commerce and would
be prejudicial to the plaintiff's interests. It asserted,
among other grounds of relief, the claim that the Interstate Commerce Commission has exclusive jurisdiction
over the establishment of junctions or physical connections between railroads engaged in interstate commerce,
that the Commission had not authorized the connection

ALABAMA RY. v. JACKSON RY.
244

Opinion of the Court.

here in question, and that the institution of eminent domain proceedings was therefore in violation of the federal
law. A restraining order issued upon the filing of the
bill. Later, the Chancellor sustained a demurrer to the
bill for want of equity; dissolved the injunction; and
denied supersedeas pending an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State. That court allowed a supersedeas,
129 Miss. 437; overruled the demurrer; reversed the decree; and remanded the case for further proceedings. It
did this on the ground that, while under th; state law the
connection might ordinarily be made at such point on the
other's line as the railroad seeking the junction might
desire, the place selected must be a proper one, and the
bill alleged that the particular junction sought was not.
131 Miss. 857, 874. Upon that issue the Chancellor then
heard the case on the evidence; found that the proposed
connection was a proper one; dissolved the injunction;
and dismissed the bill. That decree was affirmed upon
a second appeal to the Supreme Court. 136 Miss. 726.
In affirming the decree, the highest court of the State
overruled the contention of the Alabama & Vicksburg
that the Interstate Commerce Conmnission had exclusive
jurisdiction over the establishment of junctions between
railroads engaged in interstate commerce; held that Congress had not taken full control of the subject; and concluded that the authority granted by the state law to
secure junctions did not interfere with interstate commerce to an appreciable degree, if at all. The case is
here on writ of error with supersedeas granted by the
Chief Justice of the State. A petition for writ of certiorari was also filed, consideration of which was postponed. As the case is properly here on writ of error, the
petition is dismissed.
In Wlisconsin, Mimiesota & Pacific R. R. v. Jacobson,
179 U. S. 287, decided in 1900, this Court sustained an

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

order of a state commission which, at the instance of
shippers, had directed two railroads of the State engaged
in interstate and intrastate commerce to provide a
physical connection between their lines. The state commission had found that the connection was required for
intrastate commerce; and this Court concluded that the
connection ordered could not prejudice interstate commerce. Since then the authority of the Interstate Commerce Comi3jssion has been greatly enlarged and the
power of the States over interstate carriers correspondingly restricted. Prominent among the enlarged powers
of the federal Commission is the control conferred over
construction and equipment of railroads, over their use
by other carriers and, generally, over the relation of carriers 'to one another. While none of the amendments ini
specific terms confers upon the Commission exclusive
power over physical connections between railroads engaged in interstate commerce, it is clear that the comprehensive powers conferred extend to junctions between
main lines like those here in question.
The Act to Regulate Commerce, February 4, 1887, c.
104, 24 Stat. 379, provided, by what is now paragraph
3 of § 3, that carriers shall "afford all reasonable, proper,
and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between
their respective lines;" but it did not confer upon the
Commission authority to permit and to require the construction of the physical connection needed to effectuate
such interchange. Paragraph 9 of § 1, introduced by Act
of June 8, 1910, c. 309, § 7, 36 Stat. 539, 548, required a
carrier engaged in interstate commerce to construct a
switch connection "upon application of any lateral,
branch line" and empowered the Commission to enforce
the duty; but that provision was held applicable only to
a line already constituting a lateral branch road. United
States v. Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern R. R. Co., 226
U. S. 14. The Act of August 24, 1912, c. 390, § 11, 37

ALABAMA RY. v. JACKSON RY.
244

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 560, 568, amending § 6 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, empowered the Commission to require railroads
to establish physical connection between their lines and
the docks of water carriers; but the provision did not
extend to connections between two rail lines. It was not
until Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, conferred upon the Commission additional authority, that it
acquired full power over connections between interstate
carriers. By paragraphs 18-20 added to § 1, it vested in
the Commission power to authorize constructions or extensions of lines, although the railroad is located wholly
within one State; and by paragraph 21 authorized the
Commission to require the carrier "to extend its line or
lines." By paragraph 4 of § 3 it empowered the Commission to require one such carrier to permit another to
use its terminal facilities "including main-line track or
tracks for a reasonable distance outside of such
terminal."
The only limitation set by Transportation Act, 1920,
upon the broad powers conferred upon the Commission
over the construction, extension and abandonment of the
lines of carriers in interstate commerce, is that introduced
as paragraph 22 of § 1, which excludes from its jurisdiction "spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks,
located wholly within one State, or of street, suburban,
or interurban electric railways, which are not operated
as a part or parts of a general steam railroad system of
transportation." It is clear that the connection here in
question is not a track of this character. Compare Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 266. The proposed junction is between the main
lines of the two railroads. The point of junction is on the
main line of the Alabama & Vicksburg, near its entrance
into the City of Jackson. In support of the objection
that a junction there would be dangerous, it was shown
that the connection would be located between two tres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

tles, near a highway crossing, on a curve, on a fill, and
within the flood area of Pearl River. The establishment
of the junction at that point would, if the objection is
well founded, obviously imperil interstate commerce.
The fact that it may do so, shows that the jurisdiction of
the Commission over such connections must be exclusive,
if the duty imposed upon it to develop and control an
adequate system of interstate rail transportation is to be
effectively performed. Moreover, the establishment of
junctions between the main lines of independent carriers
is commonly connected with the establishment of through
routes and the interchange of car services, and is often
but a step toward the joint use of tracks. Over all of
these matters the Commission has exclusive jurisdiction.
It is true that in this case the state court found that
the place selected for the junction was a proper one.
But the power to make the determination whether state
action will obstruct interstate commerce inheres in the
United States as an incident of its power to regulate such
commerce. Compare Colorado v. United States, ante,
p. 153. In matters relating to the construction, equipment, adaptation and use of interstate railroad lines, with
the exceptions specifically set forth in paragraph 22, Congress has vested in the Commission the authority to find
the facts and thereon to exercise the necessary judgment.*
The Commission's power under paragraph 3 of § 3 to
require the establishment of connections between the
main lines of carriers was asserted by it in Pittsburg &
West Virginia Ry. Co. v. Lake Erie, Alliance & Wheeling
R. R., 81 I. C. C. 333, a case decided after the withdrawal by the Jackson & Eastern of its application to the
Commission for leave to make the junction at Curran's
Crossing, and in Breckenridge Chamber of Commerce v.
Wichita Falls, Ranger & Fort Worth R. R. Co., 109
I. C. C. 81. That its jurisdiction is exclusive was held
in People v. Public Service Commission, 233 N. Y. 113,

CHICAGO & N. W. R Y. v. DURHAM CO.
244

251

Argument for Petitioner.

119-121.

Compare Lake Erie, Alliance & Wheeling R. R.

Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 109 Ohio St. 103.
Writ of certioraridenied.
Decree reversed.

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. ALVIN R. DURHAM COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 257.

Argued April 20, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.

1. The Uniform Bill of Lading Act of August 29, 1916, a. 415, § 23,
presents no obstacle to garnishment of a carrier after the order
bill of lading has been surrendered; neither does that Act confer a
right of garnishment. P. 256.
2. The fact that, by § 5 of the Uniform Bill of Lading, as construed
by this Court in Michigan Central R. Co. v. Mark Owen & Co.,
256 U. S. 427, a carrier may remain liable qua carrier to the consignee of an interstate carload shipment after surrender of the
bill of lading and payment of charges and while the car is on a
train track and turned over to the consignee for the purpose of
unloading, and partly unloaded by him, is not determinative of
the carrier's liability as garnishee in a suit by a stranger seeking
to collect a debt from the consignee. P. 255.
3. The carrier's liability to garnishment in such circumstances depends on the state law. P. 257.
229 Mich. 46S, reversed.

CERTioRARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Michigan holding the Railway Company liable as garnishee in a suit by Alin R. Durham Company to collect
a debt from one Fred S. Larson, as principal defendant.
See also 224 Mich. 477.
Mr. R. N. Van Doren, with whom Mr. Samuel H. Cady
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Under Michigan law the right to hold a garnishee
liable depends upon the state of the claim, as one garnishable or not, at the time of the service of the process in
garnishment. As a condition precedent, the garnishee

