OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

DAVIS

ET AL.

v. WILLIFORD

271 U. S.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 316.

Submitted May 4, 1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.

1. Case held reviewable by certiorari and not by writ of error.
P. 486.
2. Under the Act of April 26, 1906, permitting members of the Five
Civilized Tribes to will their property, but providing that "no
will of a full-blood Indian devising real estate shall be valid, if
such last will and testament disinherits the parent, wife, spouse, or
children of such full-blood Indian, unless acknowledged before and
approved by a judge of the United States court for the Indian
Territory, or a United States commissioner,"--to give validity to
such a will, it was necessary not only that it be in fact acknowledged by the testator before the officer, but that the officer place
a certificate of such acknowledgment upon the will, as an essential
part of the acknowledgment itself. P. 486.
3. Parol evidence inadmissible to supply lack of such certificate. Id.
106 Okla. 208, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Oklahoma which reversed a judgment upholding an instrument as the will of a deceased full-blood Chickasaw
Indian devising his surplus allotment away from his
wife and children. A writ of error was also taken, and is
dismissed.
Messrs. Charles J. KappIer, I. R. McQueen, and C. B.
Kidd were on the brief for petitioners.
No appearance for respondents.

MR. JUSTICE SAFoRD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves a single question relating to the construction and effect of ยง 23 of the Act of April 26, 1906,

DAVIS v. WILLIFORD.
484

Opinion of the Court.

c. 1876,1 dealing with the Five Civilized Tribes. This
reads: "Every person of lawful age and sound mind may
by last will and testament devise and bequeath all of his
estate, real and personal, and all interest therein: Provided, That no will of a full-blood Indian devising real
estate shall be valid, if such last will and testament disinherits the parent, wife, spouse, or children of such fullblood Indian, unless acknowledged before and approved
by a judge of the United States court for the Indian Territory, or a United States commissioner."
The subject-matter of the controversy-which arose in
the course of a proceeding instituted in a local court of
Oklahoma to foreclose a mortgage-is a part of a surplus
allotment of 160 acres out of tribal lands made in 1904
to Frazier McLish, a full-blood Chickasaw Indian, and
held by him subject to restrictions against alienation. In
July, 1906, he executed a will by which he bequeathed
one dollar to his wife and each of his children, and devised all the residue of his property, including this allotment, to his sister. In 1907, McLish having died, the
will was probated and recorded, the only endorsement
which it bore being the following: "Approved by me July
9, 1906. Thomas N. Robnett, U. S. Commissioner for
the Southern District, Indian Territory, First Commissioner's District, in accordance with the Act of Congress
of April 26, 1906. (Seal)."
For present purposes it suffices to say that the proceeding in the district court involved a controversy as to the
title to part of this allotment, arising between J. A. White,
to whom it had been conveyed by the devisee, and S. H.
Davis, to whom White had given a mortgage, on the one
side; and the widow and children of the testator, on the
other side. White and Davis claimed that the will was
valid and had passed title to the devisee; and the widow
and children claimed that it was invalid, since it had not
' 34 Stat. 137, 145.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

been acknowledged before a commissioner or judge as required by the Act of 1906, and that the title to the allotment had descended to them.
On the trial the United States Commissioner testified
that at the ti-ne he approved the will, the testator had appeared before him and acknowledged its execution for
the purposes therein mentioned, but that, by inadvertence, the certificate of such acknowledgment had been
omitted. The court, in view of this evidence, held that
as the will had been in fact acknowledged before the Commissioner, it was valid and vested title to the allotment
in the devisee; and gave judgment accordingly. On appeal, this was reversed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, which held that parol testimony was inadmissible
to supply the lack of a certificate of acknowledgment, and
that under the Act of 1906 the will was invalid. 106
Okla. 208.
The case is now before us on a writ of error, which was
allowed in March, 1925, and a petition for a writ of certiorari, which was postponed to the hearing on the merits.
The writ of error must be dismissed under the Jurisdictional Act of 1916; and the writ of certiorari is granted.
Davis and White do not deny that the will disinherited
the testator's wife and children, Re Byford's Will, 65 Okla.
159, 162, and that it was invalid unless acknowledged
before the Commissioner, as well as approved by him.
Their contention is, that under a proper construction of
ยง 23 of the Act of 1906, where a full-blood Indian who
devises his lands to the exclusion of his wife and children,
appears before a Commissioner and acknowledges the
document presented to be his will, "it is the fact of such
acknowledgment by said testator, and not any certificate
by the officer, which gives validity to the will "; and they
expressly concede that "if, on the other hand, Congress
intended to require that a certificate of acknowledgment
be placed on the will itself by the officer," they cannot
prevail.

DAVIS v. WILLIFORD.
484

Opinion of the Court.

Construing ยง 23 of the Act in the light of its manifest
purpose, we think that Congress intended that to give
validity to such a will it was necessary not only that it
be in fact acknowledged by the testator before the officer,
but that the officer place a certificate of such acknowledgement upon the will, as an essential part of the
acknowledgement itself.
Prior to the Act of 1906, Indians of the Five Civilized
Tribes had no power to dispose of their restricted lands by
will. Taylor v. Parker, 235 U. S. 42, 44; Blundell v.
Wallace, 267 U. S. 373, 374. And in giving them generally such power by ยง 23 of the Act, it was specifically
provided that no will of a full-blood Indian devising real
estate and disinheriting his parent, spouse or children,
should be valid "unless acknowledged before and approved by a judge of a United States court . . . or a
United States Connissioner."
It is clear that it was intended by this proviso to prevent a full-blood Indian from being overreached and imposed upon, and induced for an inadequate consideration
or by trickery, to deprive his heirs of their inheritance;
and that, to this end, a will devising his land to other
persons should not be valid unless acknowledged before
and approved by a judicial or quasi-judicial officer of the
United States. To make certain of this, the officer was
not to approve the will unless the testator appeared before him in person and acknowledged its due execution,
and, upon the examination of the testator, the will appeared to be of such a character and based upon such
consideration as to warrant its approval. Plainly, it was
not intended that such acknowledgment and approval
should be a perfunctory matter. And as the will when
probated and recorded would be a muniment of title to
the land, necessarily a certificate both of the acknowledgment and the approval should appear upon it. We
cannot think that Congress intended that in a matter of
this solemnity and importance, involving the recorded

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

title to land, the effect of a will, which when probated
and recorded bore no certificate of the acknowledgment or
approval essential to its validity, should thereafter rest
in parol, subject to all the uncertainty that would follow
if its validity could be established-when the lips of the
testator were closed-by parol evidence as to the fact of
acknowledgment or approval. This would destroy the
certainty which is essential in muniments of title appearing upon the public records. If this were possible, the
subsequent establishment of the validity of the will
would largely depend upon the lapse of time before it
was brought into litigation, and the availability, at that
time, of evidence to establish or to contradict a claim
that it had in fact been acknowledged or approved; and
where portions of the land had been conveyed by the
devisee to different persons, the result of suits involving
the validity of the will, might often depend upon the
weight attached by the courts to diverse evidence in different suits, and lead to judgments establishing the validity of the will as to the purchaser of one portion of the
land, and its invalidity as against another.
Clearly, we think, Congress did not contemplate such
a disastrous result, but in granting by the Act to a fullblood Indian, under its guardianship, the power to dispose of his restricted land by will, intended that a will
disinheriting those to whom his land would otherwise
descend, should be valid only when the facts of acknowledgment and approval should both be certified by the
officer on the will, and appear upon it when probated and
placed of record.
We conclude here that the will, by reason of the lack
of any certificate of acknowledgment, was not "acknowledged before" the Commissioner within the meaning of
the Act, and, being therefore invalid, did not pass title
to the allotment to the devisee. The judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

