DOUGLAS v. FED: RESERVE BANK.
Counsel for Parties.

CITY OF DOUGLAS v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
OF DALLAS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 279. Argued April 28, 1926.-Decided June 1, 1926.
1. When paper is indorsed without restriction by a depositor, and
is at once passed to his credit by the bank to which he delivers
it, he becomes the creditor of the bank; the bank becomes owner
of the paper, and in making the collection is not the agent for
the depositor. P. 492.
2. Upon the deposit of paper unrestrictedly indorsed, and credit of
the amount to the depositor's account, the bank becomes the
owner of the paper, notwithstanding a custom or agreement to
charge the paper back to the depositor in the event of dishonor.
P. 493.
3. A depositor who has thus surrendered his rights in paper which
is later dishonored, and whose account, under his agreement with
the depositary bank, has been charged with the amount previously
credited, has no relation with a bank to which the depositary sent
the paper for collection upon the basis of which he may recover
from the second bank for its want of diligence in that regard.
P. 494.
2 Fed. (2d) 18, affirmed.
ERROR

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a judgment in favor of the Federal Reserve
Bank, defendant, rendered by the District Court (300
Fed. 573,) in an action brought by the City of Douglas
to recover the amount of a check, alleged to have been
dishonored, and recharged to the plaintiff, because of defendant's negligence in failing to collect it.
Mr. Harry E. Pickett, with whom Messrs. Cleon T.
Knapp and James P. Boyle were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. E. B. Stroud, with whom Mr. A. H. Culwell was
on the brief, for defendant in error.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE

271 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The County of Cochise, Arizona, on December 22,
1920, drew its check on the Central Bank of Wilcox,
Arizona, in favor of plaintiff in error, hereafter called
plaintiff. Plaintiff delivered the check indorsed in blank
to the First National Bank of Douglas, Arizona, and that
bank credited plaintiff's account and passbook with the
amount of the check. The passbook had printed upon its
face, "All out of town items credited subject to final payment." The Douglas Bank indorsed the check, "Pay to
the order of the El Paso Branch, Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas," which will be referred to as defendant, and
forwarded it to that bank for collection.
Defendant forwarded the check, in due time, to the
drawee bank at Willcox. The latter debited the drawer's
account with the amount of the check, stamped it "paid,"
later returning it to the drawer, and transmitted to the
defendant, in lieu of cash, its own check upon the Central
Bank at Phoenix, in an amount covering this and other
items. The last check was dishonored; both the Willcox
Bank and the Central Bank of Phoenix having failed, the
First National Bank of Douglas received no proceeds of
the check and charged back the amount of it to the account of plaintiff.
Plaintiff brought suit in the District Court for western
Texas to recover the amount of the check, on the ground
that defendant was negligent in accepting the check of
the Willcox Bank in payment instead of cash, especially
because it was chargeable with notice that both the Willcox Bank and the Phoenix Bank were then insolvent.
The case was tried without a jury, and resulted in a judgment for defendant, 300 Fed. 573, which was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 2 Fed. (2d)
818. The case comes here on writ of error. See Jud.

DOUGLAS v. FED. RESERVE BANK.
489

Opinion of the Court.

Code, §§ 241, 128 and 24, First (a); Sowell v. Federal
Reserve Bank, 268 U. S. 449. Plaintiff assigns as error
the holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals that defendant was not in such a relationship with plaintiff as
to permit plaintiff to recover for the defendant's
negligence.
Both plaintiff and defendant concede that it is the rule
of the federal courts that a bank which receives commercial paper for collection is not only bound to use due care
itself, but is responsible to its customer for a failure to
collect, resulting from the negligence or insolvency of any
bank to which it transmits the check for collection. This
is the so-called "New York rule," which in effect makes
the first bank a guarantor of the solvency and diligence of
the correspondents which it employs to effect the collection. Exchange Nat. Bank v. Third Nat. Bank, 112
U. S. 276. And see Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy,
264 U. S. 160, 164, for a comparison of this rule of liability with the "Massachusetts rule" by which the initial
bank is liable only for its failure to exercise due care in
the selection of an agent to make the collection. Under
the Massachusetts rule the agent selected becomes the
agent of the owner of the paper, who may maintain an
action directly against it for the negligent performance of
its undertaking. See Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy,
supra, 164. Compare Bank of Washington v. Triplett,
1 Pet. 25, where the undertaking of the initial bank was
to transmit paper for collection.
From this the defendant argues that under the rule applied in the federal courts, the First National Bank of
Douglas became liable by its contract with plaintiff for
the negligence of the defendant; hence that there was no
privity of contract between plaintiff and defendant, and
no basis for a recovery even though defendant was negligent in accepting an exchange check from the Willcox
Bank. See Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy, supra, 164.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

This was the view taken by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
but the plaintiff objects that it is not a necessary corollary
of the New York rule applied in Exchdnge NationalBank
v. Third Nat. Bank, supra, that one who deposits paper
for collection may not proceed against a correspondent
selected by the initial bank for that purpose, for negligent failure to make the collection, and that neither Exchange Nat. Bank v. Third Nat. Bank nor Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy so held. It objects also that in any
event the rule is not applicable here because of the stipulation appearing on the face of the passbook "All out of
town items credited subject to final payment."
It is said that the effect of this language was to relieve
the initial bank, the First National Bank of Douglas,
from the liability which would otherwise have resulted
under the New York rule, and to make it a mere agent
to transmit the paper to defendant for collection, and
thus to make applicable the Massachusetts rule. See
Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy, supra. In that case, a
local statute relieved the bank receiving paper for collection, from any liability except that of due care in selecting a sub-agent for collection and in transmitting the
paper to it; and it was held that the owner of the paper
might proceed against the sub-agent for negligent failure
to collect the paper.
It is not necessary to decide any of these questions
here. For when paper is indorsed without restriction by
a depositor, and is at once passed to his credit by the
bank to which he delivers it, he becomes the creditor of
the bank; the bank becomes owner of the paper, and in
making the collection is not the agent for the depositor.
Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283; Union Electric
Steel Co. v. Imperial Bank, 286 Fed. 857; General Amer.
Tank Car Corp. v. Goree, 296 Fed. 32, 36; In re Ruskay,
5 Fed. (2d) 143; Scott, Cases on Trusts, p. 64, note, par.
8, pp. 66-67.

DOUGLAS v. FED. RESERVE BANK.
489

Opinion of the Court.

Such was the relation here between the plaintiff and the
Douglas Bank, unless it was altered by the words printed

on the pass-book to the effect that out of town items were
credited "subject to final payment." The meaning of
this language, as the cashier of the Douglas Bank testified, and as the court below held, was that if the check
was not paid on presentation, it was to be charged back
to plaintiff's account. The check was paid and the
drawer and indorsers discharged. Malloy v. Federal Reserve Bonk, 281 Fed. 997; Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy, 264 U. S. 160, 166; Nineteenth Ward Bank v. Weymouth Bank, 184 Mass. 49; Winchester Milling Co. v.
Bank of Winchester, 120 Tenn. 225. Without these words
the relationship between the plaintiff and the bank was
that of indorser and indorsee; and their use here did not
vary the legal rights and liabilities incident to that relationship, unless it dispensed with notice of dishonor to
the depositor. As was said by the court in Burton v.
United States, supra, 297:
"The testimony . . . as to the custom of the
bank when a check was not paid, of charging it up against
the depositor's account, did not in the least vary the legal
effect of the transaction; it was simply a method pursued
by the bank of exacting payment from the indorser of the
check, and nothing more. There was nothing whatever
in the evidence showing any agreement or understanding
as to the effect of the transaction between the partiesthe defendant and the bank-making it other than such
as the law would imply from the facts already stated."
While there is not entire uniformity of opinion, the
weight of authority supports the view that upon the deposit of paper unrestrictedly indorsed, and credit of the
amount to the depositor's account, the bank becomes the
owner of the paper, notwithstanding a custom or agreement to charge the paper back to the depositor in the
event of dishonor. Burton v. United States, supra;

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

271 U. S.

Brusegaardv. Ueland, 72 Minn. 283; Nat. Bank of Commerce v. Bossemeyer, 101 Neb. 96, 102; Walker & Brock
v. Ranlett Co., 89 Vt. 71; Aebi v. Bank of Evansville,
124 Wis. 73. See Scott v. McIntyre Co., 92 Kans. 503;
Vickers v. lachinery Warehouse & Sales Co., 111 Wash.
576. But see Implement Co. v. Bank, 128 Tenn. 320;
Packing Co. v. Davis, 118 N. C. 548.
Plaintiff having thus surrendered its rights in the
paper, only rights arising out of its contract with the initial bank remained. If those rights were affected by the
act or omission of defendant, they were affected only
because that contract so stipulated. Defendant's duties
arose out of its contract with the initial bank, or out of
its relation to that bank as owner of the paper. Hence
there was no relationship between plaintiff and defendant
which could be made the basis of recovery for defendant's
want of diligence.
Judgment affirmed.
RAFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 307. Submitted May 4, 1926.--Decided June 1, 1926.
1. A defendant in a criminal case who voluntarily testifies in his own
behalf, waives completely his privilege under the Fifth Amendment, and the Act of March 16, 1878. P. 495.
2. It is not error to require a defendant offering himself as a witness
upon a second trial and denying the truth of evidence offered by
the prosecution to disclose upon cross examination that he had
not testified as a witness in his own behalf upon the first trial,
and to explain why he did not deny the same evidence when then
offered. P. 497.

IN ANSWER to a question propounded by the Circuit
Court of Appeals upon a review of a conviction under
the Prohibition Act.

