MO. PAC. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
583

Statement of the Case.

many words, the Legislature had said that no intrastate
carriers for hire except public ones shall be permitted to
operate over the state roads it would have violated no federal law. So far as the rights of plaintiffs in error are
affected, nothing more serious than that has been done.
The States are now struggling with new and enormously difficult problems incident to the growth of automotive traffic, and we should carefully refrain from interference unless and until there is some real, direct and
material infraction of rights guaranteed by the federal
Constitution.
I think the decree of the court below should be affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 280. Argued April 28, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.
1. The Act of July 28, 1916, authorized the Interstate Commerce
Commission to determine on a space basis the compensation to be
paid railroads for transportation of mails in railway post-office
cars and for the service connected therewith, and to allow landgrant roads only 80% of this compensation although part of the
space in such cars by which such compensation is gauged is not
occupied for mail matter but is used for the distribution of mail on
the trains. P. 606.
2. The obligation of land-grant railroads, as expressed in granting
acts passed in 1852 and 1853, to transport the mails at all times
"under the direction of the Post-Office Department, at such price
as Congress may direct," looked to the future and includes the
furnishing of space in railway post-office cars for distribution purposes as required in this case by the Department pursuant to the
Act of July 28, 1916. P. 607.
59 Ct. Cls. 524; 60 id. 183; affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing on demurrer a petition of the Railroad seeking

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

additional compensation on account of space in railway
post-office cars used by post-office employees in distributing mails.
Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Mr. Thomas W.
Gregory was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.
Randolph S. Collins, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant operates and, since June, 1917, has operated,
a system of railroads which includes a number of landgrant lines in Missouri and other states. These lines received land grants in aid of their construction and are
bound to carry the United States mails, under the provisions of land-grant acts, passed in 1852 and 1853, ยง 6,
c. 45, 10 Stat. 8, 10; ยง 6, c. 59, 10 Stat. 155, 156, both of
which provide that the United States mails shall be transported on the railroads receiving the grants at all times
"under the direction of the Post-Office Department, at
such price as Congress may by law direct."
By the Act of July 28, 1916, ยง 5, c. 261, 39 Stat. 412,
425-431, the Interstate Commerce Commission was directed "to fix and determine from time to time the fair
and reasonable rates and compensation for the transportation of

.

.

.

mail matter by railway common car-

riers and the service connected therewith, prescribing the
method or methods by weight, or space, or both, or otherwise, for ascertaining such rate or compensation, .
In respect of land-grant lines, the act provides:
"The Interstate Commerce Commission shall allow to
railroad companies whose railroads were constructed in

MO. PAC. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
603

Opinion of the Court.

whole or in part by a land grant made by Congress on
condition that the mails should be transported over their
roads at such price as Congress should by law direct only
eighty per centum of the compensation paid other railroads for transporting the mails and all service by the
railroads in connection therewith."
The act confers upon the Postmaster General the
power to state railroad mail routes and authorizes mail
service thereon of four classes, the first two of which are:
(1) full railway post-office car service, (2) apartment
railway post-office car service. For the first class, service
is to be "by cars forty feet or more in length, constructed,
fitted up, and maintained for the distribution of mails
on trains." For the second class, the service is the same
"by apartments less than forty feet in length," etc. The
service is to include the carriage of mail matter, equipment, and supplies for the mail service and the employees
of the Postal Service or Post Office Department, as the
Postmaster General shall direct to be carried. All cars
and parts of cars used for the service are to be of such
construction, style, length, and character, and furnished
in such manner as the Postmaster General shall require,
and are to be constructed, fitted up, maintained, heated,
lighted, and cleaned by and at the expense of the railroad
companies. The railroad companies are required to
furnish all necessary facilities for caring for and handling
the mails while in their custody. The act further provides that all railway common carriers are required to
transport such mail matter as may be offered for transportation, etc., and shall be entitled to receive fair and
reasonable compensation "for such transportation and
for the service connected therewith."
The Interstate Commerce Commission, after a hearing,
made an exhaustive report and determined that mail
should be carried upon the basis of space, instead of
weight. Upon that basis, the Commission fixed rates for

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

all services required to be performed by the act and declared that the land-grant railroads were entitled to
eighty per cent. thereof under the law. It was urged
before the Commission on behalf of these railroads that
this provision of the law "should not apply to the distributing space in R. P. O. and apartment cars, because
the service of carrying distributing facilities cannot properly be construed as transportation of the mails as defined in the law." But the Commission held otherwise.
Railway-Mail Pay, 56 I. C. C. 1, 77. Thereupon, appellant filed its petition in the court below alleging the facts
and praying judgment against the United States for
$189,880.54 as compensation for the use of the distributing space upon the same ground as that urged before the
Commission. The amount of the demand was arrived at
by separating the car space said to be used for mail distributing purposes from the space devoted to storage purposes, and adding twenty per cent. to that portion of the
eighty per cent. allowance which was claimed to be assignable to the distributing space. The Court of Claims
sustained a demurrer to the petition and entered judgment of dismissal. 59 C. Cls. 524; 60 C. Cls. 183.
That the Commission is authorized by the act of 1916
to fix rates for the transportation of the mails, that the
rates fixed by the Commission are reasonable, and that
Congress has plenary power to determine the price at
which the land-grant roads shall transport the mail, are
propositions which are not here in dispute. The contention is that this power does not enable Congress to fix the
pay of the land-grant roads for furnishing distributing
space and facilities; but that these items under the requirement of the land-grant acts are separable from and
in addition to transportation, and should be paid for at
the same rates accorded other railroads.
Unmistakably, the act of 1916 authorized the Commission to do precisely what it did, namely, to determine the

MO. PAC. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
603

607

Opinion of the Court.

fair and reasonable rates and compensation to be paid,
upon a space-basis, for the transportation of mail matter

"and the service connected therewith "; and, thereupon,
to allow the land-grant roads eighty per cent. of those
rates and compensation for like transportation "and all
service . . . in connection therewith." It would do
manifest violence to these plain words to say that Congress intended, in the one case, that the Commission
should fix the compensation to be paid railroads generally for transportation, including service connected therewith, but did not intend, in the other case, although it
used almost the same words, that eighty per cent. of that
compensation, and no more, should be allowed the landgrant roads for like transportation and service.
But, it is urged that thus to construe the act of 1916 is
to enlarge the authority of Congress under the land-grant
acts so as to permit that body to require the land-grant
roads, without compensation, to perform service in addition to that embraced within the word "transportation."
It is said that railway postal cars originated after the passage of the land-grant acts. But it does not follow that
such cars are not fairly within the meaning of those acts
as essentially incident to transportation. The provision
reaches into the future; and, while its meaning does not
change, its application may well embrace new conditions
and new instrumentalities which come within the scope
of the terms employed. This is in accordance with the
universal law of language. In a sense, words do not
change their meaning; but the application of words
grows and expands with the growth and expansion of society. Compare South Carolina v. United States, 199
U. S. 437, 448-449.
To transport any article involves, as a necessary incident, furnishing facilities for its transportation; and the
character and extent of these facilities will depend upon
the nature of the thing transported. Facilities appropri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

ately employed in the transportation of lumber, for example, would be wholly inappropriate in the transportation of live stock. The mail includes a variety of things
gathered from and carried to innumerable places. Letters
and parcels must be received, more or less piecemeal, and
then assorted and put in convenient form for delivery
at the places to which they are addressed; and, if the
mails are to go forward with dispatch, this involves assortment and preparation for delivery in transit; and this, in
turn, necessarily requires that facilities to that end must
be provided.
Nor can we ignore the provision of the land-grant acts
that the mails are to be transported "under the direction
of the Postoffice Department." The authority is a continuing one and not to be limited to such methods of direction as were customary at the dates of the acts. The
mail was to be transported "at all times" under this
direction. The power of the Postoffice Department to
direct the transportation is of the same quality as the
power of Congress to fix the price, and includes not only
the authority to say when the transportation shall take
place and between what points, but to impose such conditions as are necessarily incident to the transportation,
having regard to the peculiar nature of the things to be
transported. We fully agree with the court below that
the land-grant acts are not to be so narrowly construed
as to render their operation impracticable. "When they
declare that the mails shall be transported under the
direction of the Post Office Department we think they
imply more than the mere placing of the mails in bulk
in a car to be carried between given termini. The bulk
changes by additions to it and subtractions from it. The
making of these additions and subtractions as the different stations are reached involves space additional to that
occupied by the bulk itself. What is to be transported is
not mere weight bulk or freight but the 'mails' and the
act must be construed to give effect to its purpose."

JAYBIRD MINING CO. v. WEIR.
Statement of the Case.

603

We fairly may assume, in the absence of any evidence
to the contrary, that, in fixing the allowance to be paid
to the land-grant roads at eighty per cent. of the fair and
reasonable compensation to be paid railroads generally,
Congress has given due weight to all the circumstancesnot only to the kind and character of the service, but to
the fact that the companies are required to furnish all
facilities incidental thereto. In any event, it was for
Congress to say what reduction should be made from the
amount of full compensation in consideration of the land
grants; and its action in that respect is not open to judicial
review.
Judgment affirmed.
JAYBIRD MINING COMPANY v. WEIR, COUNTY
TREASURER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 293.

Argued April 29, 1926.-Decided June 7, 1926.

1. Where mining land owned by incompetent Quapaw Indians under
a patent subject to a restriction against alienation, was leased
on their behalf with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, under the Act of June 7, 1897, to a mining company in consideration of a royalty or percentage of the gross proceeds to be
derived from sale of ores mined, a state ad valorem tax assessed
to the lessee on ores mined and in the bins on the land, before
sale and when the royalties or equitable interests of the Indians
had not been paid or segregated, is void, as an attempt to tax
an agency of the Federal Government. P. 612.
2. Judgment of state court held reviewable by writ of error, and
certiorari denied. P. 614.
104 Okla. 271, reversed.

EmoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma which reversed a judgment for the Mining Company in a suit to recover a tax, paid under protest.
J542'--26-39

