OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

298

Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

HENKELS v. SUTHERLAND, ALIEN PROPERTY
CUSTODIAN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 318. Argued May 5, 6, 1926.-Decided May 24, 1926.
In a suit by an American citizen- under the Trading with the Enemy
Act to recover the proceeds of property mistakenly seized and sold
as enemy property, which were deposited with the Treasurer of the
United States and by him invested in interest-bearing securities of
the United States, the plaintiff is entitled to an accounting for the

interest derived from such investment, as well as the principal.
P. 300.
4 Fed. (2d) 988, reversed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court

(298 Fed. 947) dismissing the bill in a suit under the
Trading with the Enemy Act, in which the plaintiff,
Ilenkels, sought an accounting for interest.
Mr. Herbert R. Limburg, with whom Messrs. Henry L.
Sherman and Harry F. Mela were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Dean Hill Stanley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and
Assistant Attorney General Letts were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit in equity, under ยง 9(a) of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, c. 106, 40 Stat. 411, 419, as amended
by c. 6, 41 Stat. 35 and c. 241, 41 Stat. 977, brought by
Henkels, a citizen of the United States, in the federal
district court for the Southern District of New York, to

HENKELS v. SUTHERLAND.
298

Opinion of the Court.

recover the proceeds of the sale of 2,298 shares of common
stock of International Textile, Inc., a Connecticut corporation, theretofore seized by the Alien Property Custodian upon the claim that it was the property of an
alien enemy. A decree was rendered in Henkels' favor,
adjudging him to be the sole owner of the stock; and the
Treasurer of the United States was directed to account
for, and pay over to Henkels, the proceeds of the sale
"together with the income or interest, if any, earned
thereon." There was realized from the sale of the stock,
made on March 26, 1919, after deducting expenses, a
balance of $1,505,052.55. This amount the Treasurer
paid to Henkels. Subsequently, Henkels applied to the
district court to name a master to take and state the account of interest or income earned upon the fund prior
to its payment. The application was denied and a final
decree of dismissal entered upon the ground that the
principal sum had been paid to Henkels, who had executed a release and satisfaction in full which the court
refused to set aside on the claim of duress. 298 Fed. 947.
Upon appeal, the circuit court of appeals, without passing upon this ground, held that the United States was
not liable for income resulting from an investment of
the funds in its own securities. 4 Fed. (2d) 988.
The proceeds arising from the sale of the stock were
deposited with the Treasurer in conformity with law;
and by that officer they were commingled with the proceeds of other sales of alien property and invested in
interest-bearing securities of the United States. The
Government admits Henkels' right to recover income
earned on the corporate shares prior to their sale, but
denies his right to recover for interest actually paid on
Government securities in which the proceeds had been
invested. This presents the only question for our determination, the Government having expressly waived the
point upon which the district court decided the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

No question is made in respect of the right of the Custodian to seize property supposed to belong to an enemy,
although it may subsequently turn out to have been a
mistake, adequate provision having been made for a return in that case. Central Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U.
S. 554, 566; Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U. S. 239, 245.
By Executive Order No. 2813 of February 26, 1918,
made pursuant to law, moneys deposited with the Treasurer by the Custodian are to be held by the Secretary of
the Treasury "for account of the Alien Property Custodian," and may be invested and reinvested from time to
time in bonds or United States certificates of indebtedness. All moneys so deposited, together with interest or
income received from the investment thereof, are made
subject to withdrawal by the Secretary of the Treasury
for the purpose of making payments pursuant to the provisions of the Trading with the Enemy Act, which would
include, of course, payments under ยง 9 (a).
Section 9 (a) authorizes a suit in equity by any person
not an enemy, etc., to determine a claim to any interest,
right or title in the property seized. If, in the meantime,
the seized property has been sold, the same remedy, by
ยง 7(c), as amended, c. 201, 40 Stat. 1020, becomes available "against the net proceeds received therefrom and
held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer
of the United States." No distinction in this respect is
made between the property and its proceeds. It cannot
be doubted that, if the seized property had been securities of the United States and these, thereafter, had been
held in their original form, maturing coupons for interest
would have belonged to the American claimant equally
with the body of the bonds. In principle, there can be
no difference between such a case and the one here, where
claimant's property had been converted into securities
of the United States. Such securities constitute the
statutory "net proceeds," and, by the clear import of the

HENKELS v. SUTHERLAND.
298

Opinion of the Court.

statute, claimant's rights in respect of such proceeds are
not inferior to his rights in respect of the original property. And no distinction fairly can be made between the
accumulated interest upon securities constituting the proceeds, in the one case, and like securities constituting the
property, in the other.
The Government cannot be sued without its consent;
and, accordingly, it cannot be sued for interest unless it
consents to be liable therefor. But the claim here is not
for interest to be paid by the United States in the sense
of the rule. It is for income, derived from an investment
of Henkels' money in obligations of the United States,
which income has been actually received by the Treasury
and is in its possession to be held, as the proceeds themselves are to be held, for the account of the Alien Property
Custodian.
With enemy-owned property seized by the Custodian,
it has been held, the United States may deal as it sees fit,
White v. Mechanics' Securities Corporation, 269 U. S.
283; but it has no such latitude in respect of the property
of an American citizen. Whether the Government shall
pay interest upon its obligations depends upon Congressional assent; but it cannot confiscate the actual increment of property belonging to a citizen, or the increment
of the proceeds into which such property has been converted, any more than it can confiscate the property or its
proceeds, without coming into conflict with the Constitution.
The Government contends that Angarica v. Bayard,
127 U. S.251, is to the contrary, and the court below so
held. In that case, the suit was for interest or income
realized upon the amount of an award in favor of Angarica paid by the Spanish Government to the United
States. This court, in denying the right of recovery,
applied the general rule of immunity from interest, saying
(pp. 259-260) that the claim "is not different in char-

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U.S.

acter from what it would have been if, instead of being a
claim for increment or income actually received by the
United States, it were a claim for interest generally, or
for increment or income which the United States would
or might have received by the exercise of proper care in
the investment of the money." Without challenging the
correctness of this view as applied to the precise facts of
that case, it cannot be accepted as a rule of general application. Especially, it cannot be accepted as applicable
here, where the property of a citizen has been mistakenly
seized and, by executive authority, after conversion into
money, has been invested in government securities. We
cannot bring ourselves to agree that a direction to invest
such money in securities of the United States, rather than
in other securities, may be utilized to enable the Government unjustly to enrich itself at the expense of its citizens, by appropriating income actually earned and
received which morally and equitably belongs to them
as plainly as though they had themselves made the
investment.
Since the proceeds resulting from the sale of Henkels'
property have been commingled with the proceeds of
other sales and thus invested, an account must be taken
to ascertain the average rate of interest received by the
Treasury upon all the proceeds invested and, thereupon,
after deducting proper charges and expenses and taking
-into consideration the average amount of such proceeds
which remained uninvested in the Treasury, a proportionate allocation made in respect of the proceeds belonging to Henkels for the period of their investment.
Compare The Distilled Spirits, 11 Wall. 356, 368-369;
Intermingled Cotton Cases, 92 U. S.651, 652-653; Duel
v. Hollins, 241 U. S.523.
Decree reversed.

