OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 365. Argued December 1, 1925.-Decided April 19, 1926.
1. The mere fact that the quantity of morphine dispensed by a registered physician by a prescription to a morphine addict without
a written order, exceeds what would be required by the patient
for a single dose, does not constitute a violation of the AntiNarcotic Act. Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5. P. 106.
2. An ambiguous statement in a charge in a criminal case, which,
interpreted one way, would be erroneous, but which, considered
with the charge as a whole, probably was understood by the jury
in a harmless sense, is not a ground for reversal, where the
defendant did not object and seek a correction in the trial court.
P. 107.
4 Fed. (2d) 1014, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirming a conviction of the petitioner of viola,tions of the Anti-Narcotic Act.
Mr. Sam E. Whitaker for petitioner.

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with
whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was a prosecution under the Harrison Anti-Narcotic Act, c. 1, 38 Stat. 785, as amended, c. 18, 40 Stat.
1130. The indictment contained thirteen counts. The
defendant was acquitted on seven and convicted on six;
and the conviction was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 4 Fed. (2d) 1014. The case is here on writ of
certiorari.

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
104

Opinion of the Court.

In each of the six counts the defendant was described
as a physician, registered as such under the Act and
credited with paying the special tax required of physicians, and was charged with unlawfully dispensingthrough his written prescription-a stated quantity of
morphine sulphate to a particular person, in the absence
of a written order from the recipient on an authorized
form and not in the course of professional practice only,
but to enable the recipient to obtain, as actually was done,
possession of that quantity of the drug contrary to law.
The prescriptions as set forth were: To Annie Davis, an
addict to the use of the drug for 21 years, 48 grains on
August 2, 48 grains on August 9, and 40 grains on August
13, all in 1923; and to Frank O'Hara, an addict for 18
years, 30 grains on August 18, 30 grains on August 24,
and 30 grains on August 30, all in 1923.
On the trial the government proved and the defendant
admitted, that he was a physician, was registered under
the Act, and had paid the special tax required of a physician; that he issued the prescriptions without written
orders from the recipients on an authorized form; that
he intended the recipients should obtain the drug in the
quantities specified from a local dealer; that they did so
obtain it under the prescriptions; that they had been
coming to the defendant for long periods and he knew
they were confirmed addicts whose wills had come to be
subservient to their acquired craving for the drug; that
they were in a position after the prescriptions were filled
where they could administer the drug to themselves according to their own inclinations or dispose of it to others;
and that each prescription was for a quantity greatly
in excess of what would be appropriate for immediate
administration.
The disputed question was whether the defendant issued
the prescriptions in good faith in the course of his profeasional practice. On this point the evidence was con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

flicting. That for the government tended strongly to
show that the prescriptions were for quantities many times
in excess of what, according to any fair medical standard,
reasonably could be put into the possession of confirmed
addicts, even when treating them for the addiction or
endeavoring to relieve them from suffering incident to it,
and that the prescriptions could only have been issued to
enable the recipients to indulge their acquired longing
for the drug and its effects. Much of that for the defendant tended to show that he issued the prescriptions
in good faith in the course of professionally treating the
recipients for their addiction and endeavoring to relieve
them from its incidents. But some of the evidence in
his behalf was pronouncedly corroborative of that for the
government. Thus the testimony of other physicians
whom he called as witnesses, while tending to approve
his asserted method of treatment, also tended to show
that the prescriptions in question were grossly excessive
and unreasonable according to any fair medical standard.
And his personal testimony contained contradictions and
admissions tending materially to detract from his claim of
good faith. Among other things his testimony showed
that he was both distributing and prescribing most unusual quantities of the drug; that he purchased and distributed over 15,000 grains from May 1 to September
30, 1923, and that he issued prescriptions on much the
same scale during that period. There was much testimony that his professional and private character were
good and widely respected.
In its charge to the jury the court said that the determinative question was whether the defendant issued the
prescriptions in good faith "as a physician to his patients
in the course of his professional practice only "; that if
they were issued in good faith "for the purpose of curing
disease or relieving suffering" he should be acquitted;
and that if on the evidence that question was left in rea-

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
104

Opinion of the Court.

sonable doubt he should be given the benefit of the doubt
and acquitted. There was more along this line, in the
course of which the court said that it was admissible for
the defendant in his professional practice to prescribe the
drug either for "the curing of morphinism" or for "the
relief of suffering from morphinism," if he did so in good
faith, and that in determining the question of his good
faith the jury should consider the quantity prescribedwhether it conformed to medical standards, and, if it was
in excess of such standards, whether there was reason or
occasion for the excess. Thus far the charge was in accord with what this Court said in Linder v. United States,
268 U. S. 5. where prior decisions were reviewed and
explained.
Further on in the charge the court indicated that it was
not admissible for the defendant to issue prescriptions to
a known addict "for amounts of morphine for a great
number of doses, more than was sufficient for the necessity of any one particular administration of it." Complaint is now made of this. It appears ambiguous, and
if not taken with the rest of the charge might be regarded
as meaning that it never is admissible for a physician in
treating an addict to give him a prescription for a greater
quantity than is reasonably appropriate for a single dose
or administration. So understood, the statement would
be plainly in conflict with what this Court said in the
Linder Case. But we think it could not well have been so
understood in this instance. It did not stand alone, but
was to be taken in connection with what preceded it and
also with what followed. At the conclusion of the charge
counsel for the defendant made no objection and took no
exception to it, but simply asked the courf to add the
following, which was done:
"I am requested to say to you, gentlemen, that in
determining whether or not the defendant in prescribing
morphine to his patients was honestly seeking to cure

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

271 U. S.

them of the morphine habit, while applying his curative
remedies, it is not necessary for the jury to believe that
defendant's treatment would cure the morphine habit,
but it is sufficient if defendant honestly believed his
remedy was a cure for this disease."

"I instruct you that if this is true, regardless of
whether the course of treatment given by this defendant
is a cure, the question is, was he honestly and in good
faith in the course of his professional practice and in an
effort to cure disease issuing these prescriptions."
With that addition the charge elicited no criticism or
objection from the defendant, although there was full
opportunity therefor. It evidently was regarded as consistent and satisfactory. Besides, in view of what was
said in other parts of the charge, we are justified in assuming that had the court's attention been particularly
drawn at the time to the part complained of now, it
would have been put in better form. Certainly after permitting it to pass as satisfactory then the defendant is not
now in a position to object to it. McDermott v. Severe,
202 U. S. 600, 610; United States v. U. S. Fidelity Co.,
236 U. S. 512, 529; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Earnest,
229 U. S. 114, 119-120.
This disposes of the only contention made by the defendant in this Court.
Judgment affirmed.

