JIANUARY TERM, 1837.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE SHIP GARONNE,
WILLIAM SKIDDY AND OTHERS, CLAI-MANTS.
THE U&ITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE SHIP FORTUNE,
VASSE MANUEL, CLAIMANT.
Certain persons, who were slaves in the state of Louisiana, were by their owners
taken to France as servants; and after some time, were by their own consent sent
back to New Orleans; some of them under declarations from their proprietors that
they should bp free; and one of them, after her arrival, was held as a slave. The
ships in which these persons were passengers, were, after arrival in New Orleans,
libelled for alleged breaches of the act of congress of April 2.0th, 1818, prohibiting
the importation of slaves into the United States. Held, that the provisions of the
act of congress do not apply to such cases. The object of the law was to put an
end to the slave trade, and to prevent the introduction of slaves from foreign
countries. The language of the statute cannot properly be applied to persons of
colour who were domiciled in the United States; and who are broughtback to their
place of residence, after their temporary abse.nce.

APPEALS from the eastern district of Louisiana.
The French ship Garonne, from Havre, and the ship Fortune,

also from Havre, were libelled by several proceedings by the United
States, at New Orleans, in the district court of the United States,
January, 1836, under the provisions of the first section of the act of
congress, passed April 20, 1818, entitled "an act, in addition to an
act, to prohibit the introduction of slaves into any port or place,
within the jurisdiction of the United Siates, from and after the first

day of January, 1808, and to repeal certain parts of the same."
The ship Garonne had arrived in New Orleans about the 21st of
November, 1835; having on board a female, Priscilla, who had been
born a slave in Louisiana, the property of the widow Smith, a native
of that state, and resident in New Orleans. Mrs. Smith and her daughter being in ill health, went from New Orleans with her family, in
1835, to Havre, taking with her, as a servant, Priscilla; having previously obtained fro*m the mayor of the city a passport for the slave,
to prove that sh had been carried out of the state, and that she
should again be admitted into the same. Priscilla being desirous of
returning to New Orleans, from Paris, was sent back on board the
VOL. X.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Skiddy.]

Garonne, under a passport from the charge des affaires of the United
States, in which she was described as a woman of colour, the servant
of a citizen of the United States. On the arrival of the ship, the
baggage of the girl was regularly returned as that of the slave of
Mrs. Smith.
The facts of the case of the ship Fortune were as follow: Mr.
Pecq~iet, a citizen of New Orleans, went to France in 1831, taking
with him two servants, who were his slaves; as was alleged in the
testimony, with an intention to emancipate them. They remained
with the family of Mr. Pecquet, in France, for some time, and returned to New Orleans at their own instance, in the ship Fortune, in
1835, as was asserted, as free persons. The passport of the Ameri.can legation, represented these females as domestics of Mr.-Pecquet,
of New Orleans, a citizen of the United States. After their return
to New Orleans, it did not appear that they wer( claimed or held by
the agent of Mr. Pecquet, or by any person, as slaves; but no deed
of emancipation for either of them had been executed. On the arrival of the Fortune, in the list of passengers which was certified
under the oath of the captain, these persons, by name, were stated to
be the slaves of Mr. Pecquet. The declarations of Mr. Pequet
that these persons were brought back as free, and that it was his intention that they should be free, were in evidence.
The district court of Louisiana dismissed both the libels, and the
United States prosecuted these appeals.
. The case was argued by Mr. Butler, attorney-general,
for the
United States; and by Mr. Jones, for the defendants.
Mr. Butler stated, that in the case of the Garonne the question
was presented whether a slave who had been carried' out of the
United States by a master, could be afterwards brought back to the
United States.
The words of the statute are, that "it shall not be lawful to import
or bring, in any manner whatsoever, into the Unitea States," &c.,
" any negro, mulatto, or person of colour," with irtent to hold, sell,
or dispose of "such persons as a slave, or to be held to service or
labour." .
It is not claimed that the United States have, under the constitutional power1 "to regulate commerce," a right to interfere with the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[United States v. Skiddy.]

regulations of states as to slaves. The powers of congress apply to
foreign commerce.
The words of the statute are- "import" or "bring," and the case
stated in the proceedings is fairly within the law. The persons were
brought into the state of Louisiana as slaves, and are here held as
such. If the words of the statute comprehend the case, the Court
will aply them; and they will not be restrained-from doing so'by
the supposition that the case to which they apply was not intended
by congress.
In the case of the ship Fortune, the attorney-general argued, that
there was error in the decree of the district judge in dismissing the
libel of the United States, on the ground that as the persons of colour
brought into New Orleans were free, the act of congress was not
violated. This was not the issue. The allegation on the part of the
United States is, and the evidence establishes that persons of colour
were brought into the United States by the ship Fortune, and that
they were to be held to service or labour, either as slaves or otherwise. In either case the law is broken, and the penalties are incurred by the ship.
It is not necessary to show that the persons were held as slaves
after their arrival in New Orleans. Were they brought into the
United States as slaves? This is established by the list of passengers sworn to by the captain of the ship. After naming them, he
states, "these two negresses are slaves of Mr. Pecquet, and are sent
to New Orleans by their master." In the United States v. Gooding,
12 Wheat. 460; 6 Cond. Rep. 572; it was decided that the declarations of the mastr.r of a ship in the transactions of the vessel, being a
part of the res gestm, are competent evidence of the v6yage. The
declaration Pi the master in this case was in the course of his duty.
If the persons were brought to the United States, not as slaves, but
to be held to service or labour, the case is the same.
If the construction given by the district court of Louisiana Is
maintained, the act of 1807, to wb:ch this is a supplement, will be
-defeated. The objects and purposes of that law were to prevent any
persons of colour being brought into the United States, to be held to
service or labour. If evidence of intention is to acquit, the raw will
be null. The question is whether not having made-the persons
brought in the vessel free, the intention only to emancipate them
will operate to defeat the law. Suppose the intention of the owner,
or his instructions to his agent not carried into effect, how would the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Skiddy.]

case stand? Could not the persons have been sold as slaves after
their arrival? Would the intention to emancipate them give a
substantial claim to freedom?
Congress had power to pass this law. They may have thought
that if an owner of slaves carried them to a foreign country, he
ought not to be allowed to bring them back.
Mr. Jones, for the claimants of the Garorme, and for the claimants
of the Fortune.
The government ot the United States has 'no right to interfere
with the property of the owners of slaves; nor was it the object of
the law on which these proceedings are founded, to do so. The persons who were brought in the Garonne, were slaves in Paris; and
when they returned,. they came to a domicile they had never lost.
Sojourning in France, did not deprive them of their domicile. The
case may be illustrated by supposing a Maryland gentleman shall
take his slave with him when travelling, into Virginia. He cold
not, according to the principles contended for by the United States,
bring him back. But this is a misconception of the law. It was
intended to apply to persons brought from foreign countries, and
who were so imported for the purpose of their being slaves. Its
whole application is to the slave trade. To prohibit the return of
slaves from a foreign country, to which they may have accompanied
their owners, is a direct interference with the rights of those owners;
and is against the constitution of the United States.
But if these views of the case left it in any doubt, the whole of
the case of the Fortune shows that the persons of colour brought
from Havre, were free. They had been discharged from slavery liy
their master, and were entitled to be emancipated. In a'court of
equity, their claim to freedom could have been substantiated. All'
the facts of the case, exclude the supposition that they were to be
held to service or labour.
Mr. Chief Justice TA.xFY delivered the opinion of the Court.
These two cases are appeals from decrees of the district court for
the eastern district of Louisiana, upon libels filed by the district
attorney, against these said ships, their tackle, apparel, and furniture;
for alleged breaches of the act of congress of April 20, 1818, (vol. 6.
325) prohibiting the importation of slaves into the United States.
In the case of the ship Garonne, the facts were admitted by the

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[.United States v. Skiddy.]

parties in the court below, and are in substance, as follow: Priscilla,
a person of colour, born in Louisiana, was a slave; the property of
the widow Smith, who was a native of the same state. Mrs. Smith,
and her daughter, Madame Couchain, being in an ill state of health,
left New Orleans with her family for France, in 1S35, taking with
her as a servant, the abovementioned girl. Priscilla being desirous
of returning to New Orleans, Mr. Couchain, the son-in-law of Nlrs.
Smith, through the intervention of a friend, procured for her a passage in the ship Garonne from Havre to New Orleans; and since
her arrival at that place, she has lived at the house of Mrs. Smith,
and is held as her slave.
Upon this statement of facts, the question is presented whether
Mrs. Smith, a resident of Louisiana, going abroad, and sojourning
for a time in a foreign country, and taking with her nne of her slaves
as an attendant, may lawfully bring, or send .her back to her home,
with intent to hold her as before in her service. It does not appear
from the evidence, or admissions in the case, whether the laws of
France gave the girl a right to her freedom up6n her introduction
into that country. But this omission is not material to the decision.
For even- assuming that by the Frehch law'she was entitled to freedom, the Court is of opinion that there is nothing in the act of congress under which these proceedings were had, to prevent her mis-,
tress from bringing, or sending her back to her place of residence;
and continuing to hold her as before, in her service.
The object of the law in question was to put an end to the slave
trade; and to prevent the introduction of slaves into the United
States, from other countries. The libel in this case was filed underthe first section of the act, which declares, "that it shalf not be lawful to import or bring in any manner into the United States or territories thereof, from any foreign kingdom, place, or country, any negro,
mulatto, or person of colour, with intent to hold, sell, or dispose of
such negro, mulatto, or person of colour, as a slave, or to be held to
service or labour;" and then proceeds to make the vessel liable to
forfeiture, which shall be employed in such importation. The language of the law above recited, is obviously pointed against the
introduction of negroes or mulattoes who were inhabitants of foreigncountries, and cannot properly be applied to persons of colour who
are domiciled in the United States, and who are brought back to
their place of residence, after a temporary absence. In the case
before the Court, although the girl had been staying for a time in

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Skiddy.]

France, in the service of her mistress; yet ii. onstruction of law,
she continued an inhabitant of Louisiana, and her return home in the
manner stated in the record, was not the importation of a slave into
the United States; and consequently, does not subject the vessel to
forfeiture.
If the .construction we have given to this section of the law needed
confirmation, it will be found in the exception contained in the fourth
section of the law in relation to persons of eolour, who are "inhabitants, or held to service by the laws of either of the states or territoThis st-ction prohibits our own citizens,
ries of the United States."
and all other persons resident in the United States, from taking on
board of any vessel, or transporting from any foreign country or
place, any negro or mulatto, " not being an inhabitant, nor held to
service by the laws of either of the states or territories of the United
States."
Under this section, the mere act of taking or receiving on
board, the. coloured person, in a foreign country, with the intent to
sell, or hold such person in slavery, constitutes the offence. But inasmuch as Priscilla was an inhabitant of New Orleans, and held to
service by the laws of Louisiana, if the captain of an American vessel had taken her on board at Havre, for the purpose of transporting
her to Louisiana, there to be held in slavery, it is very clear that by
reason of the exception abovementioned, the act of receiving her in
his vessel for such a purpose, would have been no offence; while the
taking on board of a negro or mulatto, who was the inhabitant of
any other country, would have been a high misdemeanor, and subjected the party to severe punishment, and the vessel to forfeiture.
It would be difficult to assign a reason for this discrimination, if the
persons of colour described in the exception, could not be brought
to this country without subjecting the vessel to-forfeiture; and the
exception made in this section, in relation to those who are inhabitants, or held to service by the laws of either of the siates or territories of the United States, proves that congress did not intend to interfere with persons of that description, nor to prohibit our vessels
from transporting them from foreign countries back to the United
States.
The principles above stated decide also the case of the United
States v. the ship Fortune. We think there is enough in the record
to show that the persons of colour therein mentioned, were sent to
New Orleans, the place of their residence, for the purpose of being
there manumitted, and not to be held in slavery. But it is unneces-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

79

[United States v. Skiddy.]

sary to go into an examination of the evidence on this point; because
in either case, the bringing them home was not an offence against the
act of congress, and the vessel in which they returned is not, on that
Z
account, liable to seizure and condemnation.
The decree of the district court must therefore be affirmed, in each
of these cases.

These causes came on to be heard on the transcripts of the record
from the district court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana, and were argued by counsel. On consideration whereof),
it is now here ordered and decreed by this Court, that the decree of
the said district courf, in each oF the causes be, and the same is
hereby affirmed.

