JANUARY TERM, 1837.

Bu1GEss POOLE

AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR v.'THE LESSEE

OF JOHN FLEEGER AND OTHERS.
The plaintiffs in the circuit court of West Tennessee, instituted an ejectment for a
tract of land held under a Virginia military land warrant, situate south of a line
called Mathews' line, and south of Walker's line, the latter being the established
boundary between the states of Kentucky and Tennessee, as fixed by a compact
between these states, made in 1820; by.which compact, although the jurisdiction
over the territory to the south of Walker's line was acknowledged to belong to
Tennessee, the titles to lands held under Virginia military land warrants, &c.,
and grants from Kentucky; as far south as "Mathews' line," were declared to be
confirmed; the state of Kentucky hiving, before the compact, claimed the right to
the soil as well as the jurisdiction over tlhe territory, and having granted lands in
the same. The compact of 1820, was confirmed by congress. The defendants in
the ejectment claimed the lanas under titles emanating from the state of North
Carolina in 1786, 1794, 1795, before the formation of the state of Tennessee, and
grants from the state of Tennessee in 1809, 1811, 1812, 1814, in which tbt lands
claimed by the defendants were situated, according to the boundary of the state of
Tennessee, declared and established at the thie the state of TennesSee became
one of the states of the United States. The circuit court instructed the jury, that
the state of Tennessee, by sanctioning the compact, admitted in the most solemn
form that the lands in dispute were not within her jurisdiction, nor Within the jurisdiction of North Carolina, at.the time they were granted; and that consequently
the titles tre subject to the compact. Held, that the instructions of the circuit
court were entirely correct.
It is a part of the general right of sovereignty, belonging to independent nations,
to establish and fix the disputed boundaries between their respective limits; and
the boundaries so established and fixed by compact between nations, become conclusive upon all the subjects and citizens thereof, and bind their rights; and are to
be treated, to all intents and purposes, as the real boundaries. This right is expressly recognised to exist in the states of the Union, by the constitution of the
United States; and is guardeC in its exercise by a single limitation or restriction,
only, requiring the consent of congress.
The grants under which the defendants in the circuit court claimed to hold the land
were not rightfully made, because they were originally beyond, the territorial
boundary of North Carolina and Tennessee; this is, by necessary implication, 'admitteA by the compact between the states of Kentucky and Tennessee.
In the ordinary course of things, on the trial of a cause, before a jury, if an objection
is made and overruled as to the admission of evidence, and the party does not take
any exception, lie ik understood to waive it. The exception need not indeed then
be put in form, or written out at large and signed; but it is sufficient if it is taken,
and the right reserved to put it in form, within the time prescribed by the practice
or the rules of the court.
Where a will, devising lands, made in ole state is registered in another state in which
the lands lie, the registration has relation backwards; and it is wholly immaterial
whether the same was made before or after the commencement of a suit.

VOL. XI.-2 A

SUPREME COURT.*
[Poole v. Fleeger.]
In the state of Tennessee, the uniform practice has been, for tenants in common in
ejectment, to declare ini a joint demise; and to recover a part or the whole of the
premises declared for, actording to the evidence adduced.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of
West Tennessee.
John Fleeger and others, the defendants in error, instituted an action of ejectment, in 1832, to the September term of the circuit court
of the United States, for the district of West Tennessee, to recover a
tract of land containing two thousand seven hundred and twentyseven acres, lying in Montgomery county, in the state of Tennessee,
and lying south of "Walker's line," the established boundary line
between the state of Kentucky and the state of Tennessee, and-north
of a line called "Mathews' line," which is in latitude 360 30 north;
being the line which by the constitution of the, state of North
Carolina was declared to be the true -northern boundary line of the
state of Tennessee, and which is described as such by the charter of
King Charles the 2d.
The original title of the plaintiffs in the circuit court, was a Virginia military warrant, No. 2,685, dated 3d of March, 1784, for six
thousand acres of land, in favour of John Montgomery; and the.
plaintiffs read in evidence the will of Frederick Rohrer, to whom a
grant from the state of Kentucky, as the assignee of John Montgomery, was issued on the 24th of February, 1796.
The will of Frederick Rohrer, made, and duly admitted to probate
in Pennsylvania, of which state he was t Iitizen; was not registered
in the state of Tennessee, until after the institution of this suit.
The plaintiffs introduced in evidence a compact made on the 2d
of February, 1820, between the states of Kentucky and Tennessee;
which, after reciting that those states were'desirous of terminating
the controversy which had so long existed between them relative to
their common boundary, and the appointmdnt of eommissioners for
that purpose, proceeds to declare; that the boundary and separation
between the states of Kentucky and Tennessee shall be as follows ARTICLE 1. The line run by the Virgiiia qornmissioners, in the
year 1779, 1780, commonly called '. Walker's line," as the same is
now reputed understood and acted upon- by tho said states, their
respective officers and citizens, -from the south-eastern corner of
Kentucky, to the Tennessee river,. thence with and up the said river

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

to the point where the line of Alexander and Munsell, run by them
in the last year, under the authority of an act of the legislature of
Kentucky, entitled "An act to run the boundars line between this
state and Tennessee, west of the Tennessee river, approved February
8th, 1819," would cross said river, and thence with the said line of
Alexander and Munsel, to the termination thereof, on the Mississippi
river, below New Madrid.
ARTICLE 4.

The claims to lands lying west of the Tennessee

river, and north of Alexander and Munsell's line, derived from
North Carolina or Tennessee, shall be considered null and void, and
claims to lands lying south of said line, and west of Tennessee river,
derived from Virginia or Kentucky, shall in like manner be considered null and void.
All lands now vacant and unappropriated by any
ARTICLE 5.
person or persons claiming to hold under the states of North Carolina
or Tennessee, east of the Tennessee river, aid north of the parallel of
latitude of 36 degrees 30 minutes north, shall be the property 9 f, and
subject to the disp3sition of the state of Kentucky, which state may
make all laws necessary and proper for disposing of and granting
said lands, or any part thereof; and may by herself or officers do any
acts necessary and propgr for carrying the foregoing provisions of
this article into effect; and any grant or grants she may make there'for shall be received in evidence in all the courts of law or equity in
the state of Tennessee, and be available to the party deriving title
under the same; and the land referred to in this article shall not be
subject to taxation by the state of Tennessee for five years, except so
far as the same may in the mean time be appropriated by individuals.
Claims to land east of the Tennessee river, between
ARTICLE 6.
Walker's line and the latitude of thirty-six degrees and thirty-minutes north, derived from the state of Virginia in consideration of
military services, shall not be prejudiced in any respect by the establishment of Walker's line, but such claims shall be considered as
rightfully entered or granted; and the claimants may enter upon said
lands, or assert their rights in the courts of justice, without prejudice
by lapse of time, or from any statute of limitations for any period
prior to the settlement of the boundary between the two states;
saving, however, to the holders and occupants of conflicting claims,
if any there be, the right of showing such entries or grants to be
invalid, and of no effect, or that they have paramount and superior
titles to the land covered by such Virginia claims.

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

7. All private rights and interests of lands between
Walker's line from the Cumberland river, near the mouth of Oby's
river, to the southeastern corner of Kentucky, at the point where the
boundary line between Virginia and Kentucky intersected Walker's
line on the Cumberland mountain, and the parallel of thirty-six der
grees thirty minutes north latitude, heretofore derived from Virginia,
North Carolina, Kentucky, or Tennessee, shall be considered as
rightfully emanating from either of those states; and the states of
Kentucky and Tennessee reserve to themselves respectively the
power of carrying into grant claims not yet perfected, and in case of
conflicting claims, (if any there be,) the validity of each claim shall
be tested by the laws of the state from which it emanated, and the
contest shall be decided as if each state respectively had possessed
the jurisdiction and soil, and full power and. right to authorize the
location, survey, or grant, according to her own rules and regulations.
ARTICLE 8. It is agreed that the foregoing articles shall receive
the most liberal construction for effecting the objects contemplated;
and should any disagreement arise as to the interpretation, or in the
execution thereof, two citizens of the United States, but residents of
neither Kentuck~r or Tennessee, shall be selected, one by the executive of each state, with power to choose an umpire in -case of disagreement, whose decision shall be final on all points to them submitted.
Should any further legislative acts be requisite to
ARTICLE 9.
effectuate the foregoing art. -les and stipulations, the faith of the two
states is hereby pledged, that they will unite in making such provisions, and respectively pass such laws as may be necessary to carry
the same into full and complete effect.
This treaty was ratified by acts of the several legislatures of the
states of Kentdcky and-Tennessee in .1803.
The plaintiffs also proved that the legislature of Tennessee had by
several acts, recognised Mathews' line as being in the position of 36
degrees 30 minutes north, and that, according to observalions made
by commissioners appointed by the governor of Tennessee, Walker's line was about eight statute miles north .of the true meridian of
3.6 degrees 30 minutes. They proved that the land in controversy
was to the south of Walker's line, and between it and Mathews' line,
and that Mathews' line was run conformably to the observations of
the commissioners.
The defendants objected to the introduction of the will of FreARTICLE

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
(Poole v. Fleeger.]

deriek Rohrer, as evidence; 1st, upon.the ground that the probateand
certificate were not such as to authorize its registration in this state;
2d, upon the ground that said will was registered in Tennessee since
the institution of this suit, and more than twelve months after the
death of the testator; and therefore could only take effect from the
date of registration. -But these objections were overruled by the
court, and the will was read to the jury by the, plaintiffs, a. evidence of title.
The defendants proved that all the, lands in their possession lie
south of Walker's line, from a half to two miles distance.
The defendants likewise objected to the evidence of title offered
by the lessors of th6 plaintiffs, upon the ground that their title was a
tenancy in common, which would not, in law, support ajoint demise,
and they moved to nonsuit the plaintiffs upon this ground. But their
objection and motion were overruled by the court, with an intimation that the point would be considered on a motion for a new trial.
No exception to the opinion of the court in permitting the will to
be read, was taken in the progress of the trial; 'nor was it stated that
the right to do so was reserved. The practice of the court is -for
exceptions to be taken after trial, if 'deemed necessary.
-The defendants read to the jury the following grants, to wit : No.
1629, from thd state of North Carolina. to Thomas Smith, for six
hundred and forty acres, dated 27th of April, 1792." No. 1140, from
the state of North Carolina to James Ross, for two hundred and seventy-four acres, dated 14th of March, 1786. No. 102, from the
state of North Carolina to N. Hughes, for 316 acres, dated 7th
March, 1786. A grant from the state of North Carolina to Samuel
Barton, for one thousind acres, dated 9th of July, 1797. A grant
from said state to Duncan Stewart, for 370 acres, dated 17th November, 1797. A grant from said state to John M'Nairy, for 274 acres,
dated 6th of December, 1797.
The defendants also read the following grants from the state of Tennessee, to wit: No. 913 to -John Shelby, for 320 acres, dated 6th of
March, 1809; another grant from the state of Tennessee-to, John
Shelby, for 100 acres, dated 8th March, 1814; a grant from the state
of Tennessee to Robert'Nelson, for 800 acres,'dated 17th April, 1811;
a grant from Tennessee to William E. Williams, for 80 acres, dated
6th November, 1812.
The defendants then read to the jury regular conveyances, deducing the title to themselves from the different 'grantees above men-

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

tioned, and proved that said grants covered their possessions respectively; except that each of the defendants whom the jury found
guilty of the trespass and ejectment, in the declaration mentioned,
were in possession of portions of land not covered by any grant
older in date than the grant from the state of Kentucky to Frederick
Rohrer, under which the lessors of the plaintiffs claim.
The defendants also proved that the different grantees abovementioned, under whom they claim, took possession of the different
tracts of land contained in the grints by them read, on or about the
dates of said grants; and that they, and those deriving title under
them, have continued in possession of the same ever since, claiming
the lands as their own.
The defendants then read to the jury the statute of Virginia,
passed on the 7th of December, 1791, ch. 55, recognising and confirming Walker's line, as the boundary between that state and North
Carolina. Also the act of Virginia, passed on the 18th of December,
1789, ch. 53, s. 14, 15, proposing to erect the district of Kentucky
into an independent state. Also the act of congress, passed on the
4th of February, 1791, ch. 78, s. 1,2, assenting to the erection of the
said district of Kentucky into an independent state, at a certain future time, and upon certain conditions. Also the compact between
the states of Tennessee and North Carolina.
The defendants then proved that the states of North Carolina and
Tennessee had claiined up to Walker's line as the true line of boundary between those states and the states of Virginia and Kentucky;
from the time at which it was run, up to the time of the treaty
between Tennessee and Kentucky, made for the settlement thereof
in 1820.

The defendants also proved that the county lines of Tennessee
were Walker's line on the north. That in her legislative, judicial,
.and military capacity, Tennessee always claimed possession, and
acted up to said line as the. northern boundary of the state. That
the process of her courts ran up to said line, and were executed up
to it. That all criminal acts committed to the southof said line, and
north of the southern boundary of Tennessee, were tried
and punished in the state of Tennessee, and not in the state of Kentucky;
and instances were proved where persons put upon trial in Kentucky
for criminal offences, had been acquitted, upon the sole ground that
the offences were committed on the south side of Walker's line.
That the inhabitants south of said line all paid taxes in the state of

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

191

[Poole v. Fleeger.]

Tennessee, and not in the state of Kentucky. That they were
always enrolled as militia of the state of Tennessee, and mustered as
such, up to said line. That they always voted at elections in Tenfiessee as citizens thereof, and not in Kentucky. That -in fact, the
state of Tennessee was in full and entire possession of all the lands
lying to the south of said line, at and before the emanation-of the
grant to Fredetick Rohrer, under which the lessors of the plaintiffs
claim title, and from, the time of the earliest settlements that were
made in that part of the country, -which took place long before the
dates of the titles under which either of the parties claim. The defendants also proved, that the state of Kentucky, so far as regards the
establishment of her county lines, the service of her militia, the
payment and collection of taxes, the regulation of her jddicial process, and of the right to vote at elections, conformed to Walker's
line , as, her southern boundary. The defendants also gave in evidence the observations made by Jefferson and Fry, and by Walker and
Henderson, and those associated with them; and also proved that the
latitude of Walker's line had, since the running thereof, been taken
by Genl. Daniel Smith, a man of science, and who was along with
Walker at the running of his line, and that the latter observation of
Genl. Smith found Walker's line to be about in latitude thirty-six
degrees thirty minutes. Defendants also proved that some years
since the latitude had been taken by a scientific gentleman, and from
the result of his observation, Walker's line was ti'o or three miles
too far south. It also appeared in evidence, that Merewether Lewis,'
on his return from the expedition -to the mouth of Columbia 'river,
had taken an observation somewhere on Cumberland mountain, and
that after taking it, h e had written a letter to some person in Kentucky, giving it as his opinion that Walker's line was too far north;
and that after the reception of said letter there was much talk in the
state of Kentucky about claiming to the true latitude of thirty-six
degrees.and a half; but it did not appear that any definitive public
act of" the state of Kentucky had been done in consequence of the
reception of the information aforesaid, from Merewether Lewis; or
that, so fai.as Walker's line extended west, the relative possessions
and clgims of the two states had been interfered with in any way.
But it did appear, that about the year 1819, shortly after the trQaty
with the Chickasaw tribe of Indians, by which the lands lying in
Kentucky and Tennessee, between the Mississippi and Tennessee
rivers, were acquired, Kentucky sent two commissioners, Alexander

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole Y.Fleeger.]

and Munsell, to begin at a point on the Mississippi river, exactly in
the latitude of thirty-six degrees and a half, and to run a line from
thence east, to where the same would intersect the Tennessee river;
and that said commissioners repQrted to Kentucky that they did so
begin, and so run 'a line, and that the point where it would have
crossed the Tennessee river, was about eleven miles to the south of
where Walker's line reached said river, on the east side thereof.
Walker's line never was extended further west than Tennessee river.
The court instructed the jury, that, as by the compact between
Kentucky and Tennessee the boundary line of thirty-six degrees and
thirty minutes north, was fixed several miles south of Walker's line,
and of the land in controversy; the titles of the defendants were subject to the compact, and could only be sustained under it. That the
state of Tennessee, by sanctioning the compact, admitted, in the
most solemn form, that the lands in dispute were not within her jurisdtiction, nor within the jurisdiction of North Carolina, at the time
they were granted; and that, consequently, the titles are subject to
the condition of the compact.
After the verdict of the jury, the defendants moved the court to
grant them a new trial, which motion was overruled by the court.
The verdict of the jury was in favour of the plaintiffs, on which
the circuit court entered judgment. To the instructions given by
the court to the jury, on the several interlocutory questions raised
on the trial, and in overruling the motion for a new trial, the de-,
fendants excepted; and tendered a bill of exceptions, which was
signed by the court.
The defendants prosecuted this writ of error.
.A printed argument was submitted to the court by Mr. Washington, for the plaintiffs in error; and the case was argued at the bar for
the defendants in error, by Mr. Catron, who also 4fibmitted a printed
argument, prepared by Mr. Yerger and Mr. Forester, the counsel
for the plaintiffs in the circuit court.
The argument of Mr. Washington, for the plaintiffs in error,
stated, that ihe locality of the land in controversy is not disputed;
it lies south of Walker's line: neither is the latitude of that line, it
being thirty-six degrees and an half. It has been ascertained that
Walker's line was run south of the true meridian, thereby taking

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

193

[Poble v. Fleegor.]

fromVirginia a portion of territory which properly belonged to her;
and to the same extent increasing the territory of North Carolina.
The principal question in the case, is, whether Walker's line,
although made correctly or not, did not become the boundary between Virginia and North Carolina; and if it did, whether the latter
state had not, at the time of the inception of the title. of the plaintiffs in error, such a property to the land in controversy as was capable of transmission bythe grants under which the plaintiffs in error
claim. This is contended for on the part of the plaintiffs, and alsothat this right continued down to 1820, except so far as North Carolina or Tennessee had transferred the property to individuals. The
treaty of boundary was made in 1820, between Kentucky and Tennessee; and so far as the prior boundary of Walker's line was altered or-affected thereby, Tennessee might part with her dominion
over this territory; but not with property in it, previously transferred by North Carolina or herself, for a full and valuable consideration, and to which titles in full form had been given.
1. Walker's line, after the demarcation, became the boundary
between Virginia and North Carolina, by express and positive enactment by the former state. Act of the legislature of Virginia of
December, 1791; 1 Laws of Vir. 75, ch. 55.
2. On the 7th day of December, 1791, the date of the passage of
said act of assembly, Virginia still retained the sovereignty in what
is now Kentucky, and had a right to dispose of the soil within that
part of her chartered liniits, 6r agree as to the limits with an adjoining state.
On the 18th of December, 1789,,1 Laws of Virginia, ch. 53, page
72, Virginia passed a law authorizing the district of Kentucky to
elect members to a convention to form a state government; and authorizing her to become an *independent state, with the consent of
the congress of the United States; and on the 1st of June, 1792,
Kentucky became, by a law of the United States, a state of the
Union.
The law fixing definitely Walker's line as the boundary between
Virginia and North Carolina, and which when Kentucky became a
state, was her southern line, was thus established while Kentucky
was a part of Virginia.
The fact, that at the time of the adoption of Walker's line by Virginia as a boundary, what is now the state of Tennessee was no part
of the dominion of North Carolina, but was the territory of the
VOL. XI.-2 B

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

United States south of the Ohio, makes no difference in the case.
Virginia fixed her own boundary when it was competent for her to
"doit, without consultation with, or the concurrence of the adjoining
claimant, whoever it might be; provided she did not encroach upon
territory not her own; and this is admitted.
3d. Without any legislative enactment of Virginia, adopting Walker's line, that-must be considered the boundary between Kentucky
and Tennessee; in 'irtue of the principles of usucaption and prescription.
The record in this case abundantly shows, that from the time at
which Walker's line was run, it wag mutually recognised by Virginia
and North Carolina; and, subsequently, by Kentucky and Tennessee,
as the boundary between them. That the counties in those states
were laid off on each side of the line, those in Kentucky, calling for
it as the. southern boundary, and those in North Carolina, as the
northern. boundary. That the territory on each side of the line was
actually possessed by those states respectively, according to the above
designation of coiunty limits. That exclusive jurisdiction was claimed
and exerciged by Virginia and Kentucky on the northern side, and
by North Carolina and Tennessee on the southern; and that the
jurisdictions so claimed and exercised, were mutually conceded and
acquiesced in. That both states, not only in the appropriation of
territory, but in the settlement of inhabitants, the reputation of their
citizenship, the organization of their militia, the voting at the-elections, the collection of taxes, and the administration of their laws,
generally; had reference to this line as a common boundary. It is
true that some claims to land situated on the south of this line, and
derived under the state of Virginia do exist; but they are comparatively few, dnd without a single exception; originated either before the line was marked, or its position had become notorious. A
decisive proof that many more private titles to land lying between
this line and the true meridian of -thirty-six degrees and a half,
emanated from North Carolina, than did from Virginia, is to be found
in the fact, that by the treaty of 1820, said line was finally established,
notwithstanding it was then admitted, on all hands, to have been
placed in the first instance too far north; and that Tennessee was
suffered to retain dominion over the space in question; and that the
claims of individuals holding under her and North Carolina were
sanctioned, except so far as they conflicted with older ones derived
under Virginia and Kentucky, and that too for a very inconsiderable

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

195,

[Po,lc v. Fleeger.]
eqtuivalent. Now, why were thege prQvisions contained in the
treaty? For no other reason, it is believed, than because almost the
whole of this territory had been appropriated by North Carolina ad
Tennessee, and the citizens of the latter state, had a deep interest
that things should remain in statu quo, and the"state itself was under
obligations to maintain their rights which had been thus acquired.
And for corresponding reasons, the state of Kentucky must have been
willing to renounce a claim which had no legal foundation for its
support; especially, when her eng-agemenLs to her own citizens were
not much concerncd in the matter; and when, at the same time, she
was providing security for the most of them against the adverse titlesderived from another sovereignty.
The counsel 4or the plaintiffs in error also contended that the possession of the lands south of Walker's line, had continued so long
in North Carolina and Tennessee, As to amount to a prescription.
Between nations there is no specific period during which possession of disputed territory must have remained with one of them, to
constitute a title by prescription; because as between such claimants
there is no supreme power to dictate to them a positive rule of action.
But the principle applicable to such a case, which is derived fronm
the law,, of nations, is, that possession must have endured long
enough to evince a distinct acquiescence on the part of the adverse
claimant in the rightfulness of the possession; and, what length of
possession is necessary for that purpose, must, of course, depend upon
the peculiar circumstances of each case. To give to possession such
an effect, it is requisite also, that it 'hould have been held with the
knowledge of the adverse claimant; for the fact of possession operates
against the party which seeks to disturb it as presumptive evidence
of abandonment; and if furnishes to the party holding it proof of the
same description, and of equal force, in favour of the existence of the
right. In this case the possession of North Carolina may be coupled
with that of Tennessee, or considered as one continuing possession,
on account of the relation which those states sustain towards each
other; and, for the same reason, the.acts of Virginia and Kentucky
are to be viewed as identical.
It was contended, that this possession, and the constant assertion by
North Carolina and Tennessee, of title to the territory left out by
Walker's line, was well knownlo-Virginia, and was acquiesced in by
her. This possession commenced, and the acquiescence of Vir-

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fle~ger.]

ginia in it, before the title under which the defendant in error claims,
accrued. The argument contained a reference to written testimony
and to legislative enactments by Virginia; as well as to evidence of
her frequent recognition of the possession and disposition of this territory by the executivb of that state, after the running of Walker's
line.
It is a principle of municipal law, perfectly well established, that
possession of land for a great length of time, and non claim, will give
a good title; and that, in support of such a title, almost any thing
.may be presumed;'such as an act of parliament, a grant from the
crown, a deed of conveyance, the extinction of an outstanding opposing title, &c. Chalmer v. Bradley, and Gibson v. Clark, 1
Jacob and Walker, 63, note 2, 161; Jackson v. Hudson, 3 Johnson's Chan. Rep. 375; Powell v. Millbanke, Cooper, 102, 3; 10
Johnson, 380; 3 Johnson's Cases, 118; 3 Connecticut Rep. 630;
*11 East, 280; 10 East, 488. This principle also pervades the public
law, and is not affected in its operation by the doctrine of nullum
tempus occurritregi; because, whenever it is brought to bear upon
questions of public law, both parties are sovereigns, and stand in the
same relation to each other as individuals do in ordinary cases.
4th. The treaty of 1820, made between Kentucky and Tennessee,
'does not affect the title of the plaintiffs in error.
It has been shown, in the views already taken of this subject, that
North Carolina and Tenne.svee acquired a complete title, including
both sovereignty and property to all the lands on the south side of
Walker's line. If so, they were competent to transmit property in
any portion of those lands, to the plaintiffs in error; and that they
did so, according to'all legal formality, and that for a full and valuable
consideration, is shown in the record by the production of their
grants. Then, the plaintiffs in error being once invested with title
to the property in dispute, what .has divested them? It is said, that
the treaty of 1820 has had:the effect: not by a direct process of divestiture, but by the admission of Tennessee, therein made, that the
land, when it was granted did not lie within her jurisdiction, nor
within that of North Carolina. But how was the fact, notwithstanding that admission? It was, that the land did lie within the
jurisdiction of North Carolina and Tennessee, at the time referred to.
Then, the question is presented, whether it be competent for a state,
by admission or otherwise, to divest a title alreaay conferred upon
one of its citizens? For, change the aspect of it as you will, it is

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Poole v Fleeger.] ,

still a question as to the power to divest, assuming, that the land

was not within the jurisdiction of North Carolina and Tennessee;
and their grant would be void for want of property in the subjectmatter of the grant. But proving, as the plaintiffs in error have
done, and surely they stand in a situation to be permitted to make
the proof, that the land did belong to the grantor at the time that
they became grantees of it; and then the admission of the state to
the contrary becomes of no avail. It is a principle of law, that when
one claims title under another, he will not be permitted to deny the
title of him under whom he claims. But the reverse of that principle is by no means true; that is,,where the grantor, after havingmade and delivered a grant, acknowledges that he "had no title at the
time of making it; hisgrantee is not bound by that acknowledgment.
So far is it from being true, that, if the grantor had not, in reality,
any title when he conveyed, but afterwards acquires one, it vests, eo
instanti by relation to the date of the grant, in the grantee; and this,
too, by operation of law; so that the grantor could not, if he would,
afterwards defeat his own sale. How is it possible then, for a posterior admission of the state of Tennessee to take away from 'the
plaintiffs in error rights which *they undoubtedly had before that
admission was made?
It is likewise a principle of law, founded in abstract justice and
morality, and highly promotive of good faith, that a party is estopped
from denying his own deed: And the doctrine of estoppel does not
apply to the execution of the deed simply, for, its being the deed of
the party, necessarily implies its execution; but it applies to the operation and effect of it, so that the grantor is bound by all legal inferences and consequences resulting from it.' Now, to say that it
lies in the mouth of the grantor, to deny that there was any subjectmatter for the grant to act upon, appears to be as effectual a mode- of
destroying it, and of absolving him from the obligation of it, as any
that could be devised. And why shocld not this principle be enforced against a state? When a state makes a grant to an individual,
it is a contract, with all the incidents of any other contract of the
same kind attached to it; and in the making of which, the state exerts only the same capacities that an individual would do in a like
case; and it must, therefore, be goierned by the same rules, regulations, and restrictions, in every respect.
When Tennessee and Kentucky entered- into the compact of 1820,
it wasqompetent for the former to part with what-she had, and no

SUPREME COURT.
[Poo]e v. Fleeger.]

more. She then possessed sovereignty over the land which is the
subject of this suit, but no property in it; that belonged to the plaintiffs in error. She might, therefore, have parted with her sovereignty over the land, and have transferred the allegiance of the
owners of it to the state of Kentucky; in which case, their right of
property would have remained unaffected." But precisely the re'verse of this is what, by the compact, she purports to have done;
this. is, to retain the sovereignty, and cede the property; or, what
amounts to the same thing, to give such an effect to a certain state of
.fact,, as will enable the defendants in error successfully to hold the
property against those in whom the title before existed; when, without such an effect, thus communicated, those facts would have been
wholly inefficient for the purpose.
Now, is the doctrine to receive judicial sanction that a state, although she may be sovereign, can thus -tamper with the rights of
individuals? In one sense, sovereign power may be competent to
do any thing; to destroy all the creations that have taken place
under the exercise of it; and that, too, without any regard to the
consequences of such wantonness. But under our constitution and
laws, there is some restraint imposed upon the exercise of the power
of the state: the functions of all public bodies, and public officers,
are limited and defined; and no interference can take place with private property that is inconsistent with right, and unwarranted by
known rules and regulations. The legislature of Tennessee, in appointing commissioners to make this compact, and in the subsequent
ratification of it, and the commissioners themselves in making it, all
acted by virtue of a delegated power; and no power was delegated
to them, or could be, that was incompatible with the charter.whence
that power was derived. The 20th section of the declaration of
rights, which is a part of the constitution of Tennessee, says: "that
no retrospective law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts,
shall be made." Now, here is an express limitation upon the power
of the legislature. Has it beep observed in the making of this coinpact? What is meant by a retrospective law? It is one which
changes, or injuriously affects a present right; by going behind it,
and giving efficacy to anterior circumstances to defeat it, which they
had not when the right accrued. This compact looks back to the
dates of the warrant and grant issued by Virginia and *Kentucky,
both powerless as emanating from those states; overleaps the intervening title derived from Tennessee and North Carolina, which was

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

good if it had been let alone; and, by the new life which it breathes
into the worthless claim, subverts the other. And what is meant
by the obligation of a contract, in the sense of the constitution? As
applied to this case, we shall best see by inquiring what was the
state of the contract upon which the plaintiffs in error rely, without
the provisions of the compilet; and what it is with them. Setting
aside the compact, and there is a grant; which is the highest muniment of title, and which binds the state to defend the possessor in
the enjoyment of the land. But taking the compact into consideration, and giving force to it according to its terms, and you destroy
the grant, and take away from tie holder all the consequences flowing from it; thus most emphatically impairing the obligation which
it had created. The passage of such a law would even exceed the
competency of the British parliament, notwithstanding its attribute
of omnipotence; and the judges there would not fail to pronounce it
void, as being in violation of natural justice and inherent right. 18
Johnson, 138; 7 Johnson, 497; 2 Dallas, 308, 311.
The sixth article of the compact of 1820, under which this suit
was brought by the defendants in error, is in the following words:
" claims to land east of the Tennessee river, bet*een Walker's line,
and the latitude of thirty-six degrees, thirty minutes, north, derived
from the state of Virginia in consideration of military services, shdll
not be prejudiced in any respect by the establishment of Walker's
line; but such claims shall be considered as rightfully entered or
granted; and the claimants may enter upon said lands, or assert their
rights in the courts of justice, without prejudice by lapse of time,
or from any statute of limitations, for any period prior to the settlement of the boundary between the two states; saving, however, to
the holders and occupants of conflicting claims; if any there be, the
right of showing such entries or grants to be invalid, and of no
effect; or that they have paramonnt and superior titles to the land
covered by such Virginia claims."
It has already been shown, in the preceding views exhibited of
this case, that, by the establishment of Walker's line in the first
instance, Virginia distinctly admitted that the land to the south of
it was not within her jurisdiction, and did not belong to her; and
that North Carolina, by the possession of that land, acquired a complete title to it. The title thtis acquired by North Carolina, would
cerLainly inure to the benefit of the plaintifl in error, so far as any
,if 1hat land was granted to them. - Then, by the above article of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

compact, Tennessee renounced that title; which renunciation, as
applied to this case, did not in thc least affect the interest of the state,
but only operated to destroy the right vested in her grantees. The
article goes further, and says, that the claims under Virginia shall
be considcred as rightfully entercd or granted; and shall not be prejudiced by lapse of time, or any statute of limitations. In thi respect,
the conpaet professed to act directly upon the rights of individuals,
situated as the parties to this suit are; giving to the one, a title which
he had not before, and taking away from the other that which he
had-tying up the hands of one, and furnishing the other with a
most deadly offbzisive weapon. By the provisions thus interposed,
lapse of time, presum-ption, and the statute of limitations, are all cut
off, as sources from which title might have been -cquired; and, in
fact, was acquired. If there is any question perfectly well settled in
the courts of"Tennessee, so that no one now thinks of meeting it
again, it is, that our statutes of limitation as appl ed to land, have a
Itouble operation-that is, that they bar the remedy of the plaintiff
in ejectment, and give to the defendant, although his paper title was
utterly void, a title good against the whole world, by positive prescription. Act of 1715, ch. 27, sec. 2; Act of 1797, ch. 43, sec. 4;
Act of 1819, ch. 28, sec. 21; Porter's Lessee v. Cocke, Peck's Rep.
47; Ferguson v. Kennedy, Peck 321; 3 Johnson's Chan. Rep. 142,
3, 10 Mad. 206. It appcms, therefore, that the sixth article in
the compact cannot be sustained, without its operating as a repeal
of tho.e statutes, a reversal of those decisions, and a direct judicial
sentence.
5th. The title under which the defondants in error claim is void
for chamnperty.
That title is the grant from the state of Kentucky, operating proprio viore; or it is the above article in the compact; or it is both
taken together. Now, considering it either way, there was an adverse possession by the state' of Tennessee, or by those claiming
under it, at the time of the origin of the title of the defendants in
error; and the provisions of the statute of 32 Ihenry 8th, ch. 9, operate upon the conveyance thus attempted to be made, and render it
absolutely void. Williams v. Jackson, 5 Johnson, 498; Co. Lit.
214, s. 347.
6th. The lessors of the-lihintiffs in the court below, have shown a
title-which makes them tenants in common, onlv and there is but

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

one demise in the declaration, and that a joint one. Tenants in common cannot support ejectment upon a joint demise.
Although the action of ejectm'nt is fictitious, yet such a demise
must be laid as would, if actually made, have transferred the right of
possession to the lessor. Ejecment is a possessory action, and each
tenant in common is not capable pf demising the whole premises;
and, therefore, a case is not made out upon the face of the declaratioa
which entitles the lessor to bril-g suit.

Adams on Ejeetment, 186;

*Treport's case, 6 Coke, 15 (6).
It is due, however, to tl-.. circuit judge who tried this cause, to
state, that this defect in the declaration, if it be one, was not discovered until after tli'trial was gone into: and that although he overruled the motion for a nonsuit, founded on it; he intimated, that he
would reserve the point for ffurther consideration, upon an application for a new trial, if one should be made. Aid that none but a
formal application for a new trial was made, on account of circumstances known to the circuit judge, which caused the sudden and
unexpected adjournment of the court.
7th. The will of Frederick Rohrer, under which the defendants in
error claim, ought not to hvc been received in evidence. 1st. On
account of the insufficiency of the certificate and probate, to authorize its registration in the state. 2d. Upon the ground that said
will was registered in Tennessee, after the institution of this suit;
and therefore could only take effect fr-om the date of registration.
The will of Frederick Rohrer was a foreign one, that is, made
and published in Pennsylvania; and what purported to be a copy
only, was produced upon the trial of this cause. It is perfectly clear
that no will made out of the state of Tennessee, can pass lands situated in it, and that no evidence of a will can be received in the
courts there, for the purpose of affecting titles to land; but in strict
conformity to the laws of Tennessee, Kerr v. Aloore, 9 Wheat. 571.
The probate of the will, and the registration, are all in the record,
and the Court is respectfully requested to examine them. They will
compare them with the provisions of the act of the legislature of.
Tennessee on the subject. It will be observed, that the act of 1823,
ch. 31, authorizes copies of such wills to he recorded in the county
where the land lies, provided they shall have been proved according
to the law then (1823) in force in the state, as to wills made and
executed within the limits of the state: Act of the 1st session of
VOL. XI.-2 C

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]
1784, ch. 22 ; Act of 2d session of 1784, ch. 10. And when so recorded, shall have the same force and effect as if the original had
been executed in this state, and proved and allowed in our courts;
and shall be sufficient to pass lands and other estate.
Whether a copy of this will was duly proved and recorded in Tennessee or not, it was not recorded until after the commencement of
the suit; and there is no principle better understood, or more universally admitted, than that in ejectment the lessor of the plaintiff
must have a title to the premises in dispute at the laying of the demise. And, according to the construction of the above statute of
1823, the title to land here does not.pass by such a will, until a copy
thereof is actually recorded, in the manner therein prescribed; nor
then,, unless the probate is in. due form, and -the will itself shall
have been executed with the solemnities required.
Mr. Catron, for the defendants in error.
By mutual legislation and arrangement between the states of Virginia and North Carolina, commissioners were appointed as early as
the year 1779, two from each state; who met in September of that
year, for the purpose of extending the common boundary of the
states on parallel of latitude 36 degrees 30 minutes north.
The line, in part, had been previously run by Fry and Jefferson;
beginning at the Currituck inlet, and extending west 329 miles to
Steep-rock creek near -New-river,and at 81 degrees 12 minutes west
longitude from London. Ifaywood's Iistory of Tennessee, -178.
The commissioners on the part of Virginia were, Doctor Thomas
Walker and Daniel Smith; and those acling in behalf of North
Carolina, Colonel Henderson and William B. Smith. The commissioners by mutual observations ascertained the precise latitude of 36
degrees 30 minutes north, being one mile o01. poh.s due bouth of
the termination of Fry and Jefferson's line; and there fixed their beginning. After running the line as far as Carter's valley, fortv-five
miles west of Steep-rock creek, the Carolina gentlemen conceived
the line was furthier south than it ought to be; airk on trial, it was
found the variation of the needle had slightly altered. On making
observations, it was supposed the line at that point was more than two
miles too far south-one of the Virginia commissioners concurring
that this was the fact. The distance was measured off due north,
and the line run eastward from that place by the Carc 1ina commissioners to Steep-rock creek, aided by one of those from Virginia, (Mr.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

Smith,) for about twenty miles east; when he became satisfied from
repeated observations, that the second line was wrong and the first
right; to this conclusion the Carolina gentlemen refused their assent.
Doctor Walker had continued to extend the line west, but was soon
overtaken by Mr. Smith. Concurring that the first line was on the
true latitude, they accordingly brought it up from Carter's valley,
and extended it to the westward, separate from th& Carolina commis.
sioners, who did not again act in concert with them, but extended the
second line as far as Cumberland mountain, protesting against the
line run by the Virginia commissioners; and there they ceased the
work and returned home. East of Cumberland mountain the southern
line was afterwards known as Walker's line, and the northern as
Henderson's line-being something more than two miles apart, and
extending from Steep-rock creek to Cumberland mountain.
The Virginia commissioners from Cumberland-gap, where they
struck the mountain, continued the extension of the line run by them
west, through the mountain, and marked it as far as Deerfork, 124
miles from the beginning at Steep-rock creek: They there left offrunning the line, and went west to Cumberland river, about 109 miles from
Deer-fork; ascertained the true latitude of 36 degrees 30 minutes, as
they supposed, and from that point run and marked the line west,
(crossing the Cumberland. river again at 131 miles,) to the Tennessee
river, 41 miles from the first crossing of the Cumberland. Their
authority extended no further; but on their.way home orders met
them from the governor of Virginia to proceed to the river Mississippi, and there ascertain and mark the termination of the line;.
which service they performed. The line from Cumberlarrd-to Tennessee river is known ds Walker's line; and where it strikes the
Tennessee is over eleven miles north of, 36 degrees 30 minutes, but
much less north, where it was commenced at Cumberland river.
This circumstance- produced the present controversy; to understand
which, it has been deemed necessary to give, irisomething of detail,
the history of Walker's line, and why it was not recognised as
the true boundary between Kentucky and Tennessee; and the necessity of the compact of 1820, to settle the boundary- between the two
states.
The constitution of North Carolina declares the northern boundary
of that state to be thirty-six degrees, thirty minutes, sec. 25.
It is attempted to be changed by Walker's line, run in. 1779, '80;
and the Virginia act of assembly of the 7th of December, 1791. ch.

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger. l

55. The line had been marked west from Cumberland river to the
Tennessee river by Walker. In December, 1789, a committee of
the house of commons of North Carolina, to whom was referred
the letter of the governor of Virginia, reported favourably to the
establishment of Walker's line, but the senate did not act. At the
next session, llth December, 1790, a committee of the house again
reported, and recommended a law to be passed confirming Walker's
line as the boundary between Virginia and North Carolina, reserving
the right of the oldest grants or entries made by either state. The
report was concurred with by both houses; Hayw. His. Ten. 484.
To meet the report Virginia took the first step, and on the 7th of
December, 1791, passed an act conformably to it. Id. 485. But
North Carolina passed no law upon the subject; for the well known
reason that, in February, 1790, she had ceded the western part of
the state to the United States; which government, (not North CaroIina,) had the sole power to fix the boundary with Virginia, from the
north-west corner of North Carolina to Cumberland gap. See Session Act. Hayw. H. 434. In 1796, Tennessee became a state; and of
course recognised no act of North Carolina after the cession of the
United States. Hayw. H. 8.
Nor did Kentucky recognise the legislation of Virginia west of
Cumberland gap after the 18th of December, 1789. Then an act
was passed authorizing the district of Kentucky to call a convention
for the purpose of separating from Virginia, the assent of congress
being had. The convention was called, a separation determined upon;
and the act of congress of the 4th of February, 1791, cb. 78, was
passed, receiving Kentucky, according to its actual boundaries, on the
18th day of December, 1789; Kentucky to come in as a state on the
1st of June, 1792. On the 2d of April, 1792, Kentucky formed
her first constitution, and thereby declared the compact with Virginia a part thereof; Art. 8, sec. 7, 1 Marshall's Hist. Kentucky, 408.
Virginia is concluded by it; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1. The act
of congress of the 4th of February, 1791, settled the southern boundary of Kentucky at thirty-six degrees thirty minutes, and Virginia
had no power to change it afterwards: her act of the 7th of"December, 1791, is, therefore, of no validity in this controversy.
But it never was intended to have any force. North Carolina
adopted a report, (having no legal force,) proposing a joint law to
Virginia. So fir as the latter had power, she passed the law, but
North Carolina did not meet it; the object was a comnact bv mutual

S'.NUA.RY TERM, 1837.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

legislation. Is it not most harsh to say, Virginia shall be bound by
her act to confirm the North Carolina claims; to surrender territory
equal to four counties, and North Carolina shall not be bound?
The act of Virginia, in its terms only, extends to the common
boundary between North Carolina and Virginia, as run by Walker.
The line was begun at Steep-rock creek, forty-five miles east of
Carter's valley, and east of the north-west corner of Tennessee.
From Steep-rock creek to the north-west corner of North Carolina,
was the only part of the boundary between North Carolina and Virginia. to which the act of December, 1791, did or could apply, because west of this North Carolina had no jurisdiction. And so
Virginia understood the law, as is manifest from her compact of
1801, ch. 29, 1 Scott, 716, 1803, ch. 58; by which commissioners
from the respective states settled and marked a new boundary, equidistant between Walker's and Henderson's line, from Cumberlandgap east, to the north-west corner of North Carolina.
That either Tennessee or Kentucky ever imagined that the acts of
Virginia or North Carolina had affected the common boundary of the
states, cannot be pretended; the reverse is prominently manifest from
Tennessee acts of 1801, ch. 29; 1803, ch. 63, 1812, ch. 61; 1815, oh.
192; 1817, ch. 157; 1819, ch. 89; and 1820, ch. 20. In fact, and by
universal admission on the part of Tennessee and Kentucky, the act
of Virginia never affedted the question presented by the record.
Conceding to the act the validity claimed for it, and suppose North
Carolina had met it by a corresponding statute, still it could have no
binding effect. The constitutions of Virginia and North Carolina
conferred jurisdiction to thirty-six degrees, thirty midutes. Could
the states by legislation or by compact fix the boundary ten miles
further north? Would such act give North Carolina jurisdiction over,
the constitution? That the legislature of North Carolina had no.
power to authorize grants north of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes,
must be admitted: 4her grants are clearly void. But then it is contended the act of Virginia of December, 1791, prescribed Walker's
line as the southern limit of the district in Kentucky, where Virginia
military warrants could be located; and the plaintiff's grant being
south of the line, it is also void: therefore, both titles being void,
the plaintiff must fail.
The sixth article of the compact confirms the military grants of
Virginia, south of the line and north of thirty-six and a half degrees.
The compact is just as good and effectual a grant as an ordinary Datent.

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

North Carolina granted 25,000 to Genl. Green, and 200 acres to the
town of Nashville, by statute; and each of which grants have received the judicial sanction. So Tennessee confirmed the military
grants made north and east of the military boundary, by her act of
1815. Ch. 173, and in various other cases.
The compact is the supreme law, by the act of congress adopting
it, of 12th of May, 1830. Ingersoll's Digest, 695; Con. U. S. ar. 6,
sec. 2. But for the confirmation, the jurisdiction of Tennessee could
not extend beyond 36 degrees 30 minutes north; because the legislature could not alter boundary fixed by the constitution. Congress
had made it the supreme law over the constitution of Tennessee.
And in this connection it may be remarked, that all legislation on
the part of Virginia and North Carolina, tending to change the
boundary from 36 degrees 30 minutes,- to 36 degrees 40 minutes,
would have been obnoxious to the 1st art. 10th sec. of the constitution of the United States, which declares:, "No state, shall, without
the consent of congress, enter into any agreement or compact with
another state." The'prohibition must comprehend compacts of cession from one state to another; if not, Pennsylvania may treat for
half of Delaware, and still leave her with two senators, and one
representative in congress; and the ceded half be represented as part
of Pennsylvania.
Our disputed boundary presents an ample illustration of the necessity that the assent of congress should be had. By our act of 1801,
ch. 29, we ordered commissioners to be appointed to treat -or all the
country south of- Green river, including now about twenty-five
counties in Kentucky. By the compact of 1820, Tbnhessee acquired
nearly half a million of acres north of 36 degrees 30 minutes; if she
could go ten miles north, she might two hundred, and purchase out
a sister state, sapping the foundations of the Union.
But suppose the Tennessee and North Carolina grants the better
title, yet it becomes necessary to cede them to Kentucky, as part
consideration of the'compromise; we, says Kentucky, will give you
the sovereignty to Walker's line, in consideration of which you
shall give us the right of soil; and it was agreed. Is this not taking
priv4te property for public use? 3 Story's Com. 601; 2 Kent's, 339,
2d edition. By the treaties of 1817, 1819, the sovereignty of the
Cherokee country w~s ceded to the United States, with the right of
soil, and certain Cherokee occupants had granted to them a mile
square each, as a part consideration. One of these reserves covered

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

207

[Poole v. Fleeger.]

a grant made to Stuart, in 1800, by North Carolina.

It was.holden,

per Haywood, judge, and not denied by any, that the private property of Stuart's assignee could be ceded to the Indian. 2 Yerg. R.
164, 5, 6; and congress paid Stuart's assignees for the land. Cornet
v. Winton.
The provision of the constitution of the United States, that private
property shall not be taken for public use, without just compensation,
applies, exclusively, to a taking by the United States government,
and has no reference to the acts of the states. To be bound, they
must be named, as that no state shall pass any ex post facto law, or
laws impairing the obligation of contracts. Barron v. The Mayor
of Baltimore, 7 Peters, 243.
The constitution of Tennessee, (Bill of Rights XXI) declares,
"No man's property shall be taken, or applied to public use, without
the consent of his representatives; or without just compensation
being made therefor."
1. By consent of his representatives, means by a law of the land,
as where roads are located on private property, and no compensation
is made.
2. In time of war, when the militia are called out, fuel, forage,
provisions, boats, &c. may be taken, without any law, positively
authorizing of it. Then compensation must be made.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court
This is the case of a writ of error to the judgment of the circuit
court of the United States for the district of West Tennessee. The
original writ was an ejectment; brought by Fleeger and others, (th
now defendants in error,) against Poole and others, (the now plaintiffs in error,) to recover a tract of land containing 2,727 acres in
Montgomery county, in Tennessee, lying south of Walker's line, so
called; which constitutes the present boundary line between the
states of Kentucky and Tennessee; and north of Mathew's line, so
called, which is exactly now in latitude 360 30' north; which by the
constitution of North Carolina, is declared to be the true northern
boundary line of the state, and is so described in the charter of King
Charles the 2d.
At the trial, the original plaintiffs proved their title to be as devisees of one Frederick Rohrer, who claimed it by a grant of the
state of Kentucky, dated the 24th of February, 1796, in part satisfaction of a Virginia military land warrant, held by Rohrer as as-'

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

signee of one John Montgomery. They also read, in evidence, the
compact between the states of Kentucky and Tennessee, of the second
of February, 1820. The defendants claimed title under certain
grants from the state of North Carolina of various tracts comprehending the premises in question, dated in 1786, 1792, and 1797; and
also under certain grants from the state of Tennessee in 1809, 1811,
1812 and 1814, from which they deduced a regular title to themselves;
and they proved that the same grants covered their possessions respectively, except that each of the defendants, whom the jury at the
trial found guilty of the ejectment, were in possession of portions of
land not covered by any grant, older in date than that to Rohrer.
The defendants also proved that the different grantees under whom
they claimed, took possession of the different tracts of land contained
in their grant, on or about the date thereof; and that they and those
deriving title under them, have: continued in the possession of the
same ever since.
Various other evidence was introduced- by the defendants, the object of which was to establish that Walker's line had been for a long
time acted upon as the boundary line between North Carolina and
Virginia, before the separation of Kentucky and Tennessee therefrom; and that after that separation Tennessee had continued to exercise exclusive jurisdiction up to that line, with the acquiescence of
Kentucky, until the compact of 1820. As our judgment turns upon
considerations distinct from the nature and effect of that evidence,
it does not seem necessary to repeat it on the present occasion.
By the compact of 1820, between Kentucky and Tennessee, (art. 1,)
it was agreed that Walker's line (which was run in 1780) should be
the boundary line between those states; and by the sixth article it
was further agreed that "6claims to land east of Tennessee river, between Walker's line and the latitude of 360 30' north, derived from
the state of Virginia, in consideration of military services, shall not
be prejudiced in any respect, by the establishment of Walker's line;
but such claims shall be considered as rightfully entered or granted;
and the claimants may enter upon said lands, or assert their rights in
the courts of justice without prejudice by lapse of time, or from any
statute of limitations for any period prior to the settlement of the
boundary between the two states; saving, however, to the holders
and occupants of conflicting claims, if any there be, the right of
showing such entries or grants to be invalid, and of no effect; or that
they have paramount and supericr titles to the land covered by such

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

209

[Poole v. Fleeger.]

Virginia claims." By another article (the 4th) it was further agreed
that, "all lands now vacant and unappropriated by any person, claiming to hold under the states of North Carolina or Tennessec, east
of the Tennessee river, and north of the parallel of latitude of 36 degrees 30 minutes north; shall be the property of and subject to the
disposition of the state of.Kentucky." "
Upon the whole evidence in 'the cause, the court instructed the
jury, "that as by the compact between Kentucky and Tennessee, the
boundary line of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes north, was fixed
several miles south of Walker's line, and of the land in controversy;
the titles of the defeipdants were subject to the compact, and could
only be sustained under it. That the state of Tennessee, by sanctioning the compact, admitted in the most solemn form that the lands in
dispute were not within her jurisdiction, nor within the jurisdiction
of North Carolina at the time. they were granted; and that, consequentiy, the titles were subject to the conditions of the compact."
To this opinion of the court the defendants excepted; and the validity of this exception constitutes the main subject of inquiry upon
the present writ of error; the jury having found a verdict in favour
of 'the plaintiffs .upon this opinion, and judgment having been rendered in conformity thereto in the court below.
We are of opinion that the instruction given by the court below
is entirely correct It cannot be doubted, that it is a part of the
general right of sovereignty, belonging to independent nations, to establish and fix the disputed boundaries between their respective territories; and the Ioundaries so established and fixed by compact between nations, become conclusive upon'all the subjects and bitizens
thereof, and bind their rights; and are to be treated, to all intents aid
purposes, as the true ard real boundaries. This is a dodtrine universally rec6gnised in the law and practice of nations. It is a right
equally belonging to the-states of this Union; unless it has been surrendered under the constitution of the United. States. So far from
there being any pretence of such a general surrender pf the'right,
that-it is expressly fecognised by the constitution, and guarded in its
exercise by a single limitation or restriction, requiring the consent of
congress. The constitution decl~res,-that-" no state shall; without the
consent of congress, enter into any agreement .or compact with
anothdr slte;" thus plainly admitting that, with such,' consent, it
might be done: and in the present instance, that donsent has been expressly given. The compact, then, has fall validity, and all the

VOL. XI.-2 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. F'leeger.]

terms and conditions of it must be equally obligatory upon the citizens of both states.
Independently of this broad and general ground, there are other
ingredients in the present case equally decisive of the merits.
Although, in the compact, Walker's line is agreed to be in future the
boundary between the two states, it is not so established as having
been for the past the true and rightful boundary; on the contrary,
the compact admits the fact to be the other way. While the compact cedes to Tennessee the jurisdiction up to Walker's line, it
cedes to Kentucky all the unappropriated lands north of the latitude of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes north. It thus admits,
what is in truth undeniable, that the true and legitimate boundary of
North Carolina is in that parallel of latitude; and this also is declared in the charter of Charles the second, and in the constitution
of North Carolina, to be its true and original boundary. It goes farther and admits that all claims under Virginia to lands north of that
boundary, shall not be prejudiced by the establishment of Walker's
line; but such claims shall be considered as rightfully entered or
granted. The compact does, then, by necessary implication, admit
that the boundary between Kentucky and Tennessee, is the latitude
of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes; and that Walker's line is to be
deemed the true line, only for the purpose of future jurisdiction.
In this view of the matter it is perfectly clear that the grants made
by North Carolina and Tennessee, under which the defendants
claimed, were not rightfully made, because they were originally beyond her territorial boundary; and that the grant, under which the
claimants claim, was rightfully made, because it was within the territorial boundary of Virginia. So that upon this narrower ground,
if it were necessary, as we think it is not, to prove the case, it is
clear that the instretion of the. court was correct.
And this disposes of the argument which has been pressed upon
us, that it is not competent for a state, by compact, to divest its citizens of their titles to land derived from grants under the state; and
that it is within the prohibition of the constitution, that "no state
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts." If the
states of North Carolina and Tennessee could not rightfu lly grant
the-land in question, and the states of Virginia and Kentucky could,
the invalidity of the grants of the former arises, not -from any violation of the obligation of the grant, but fiom an intrinsic defect of
title in the states. We give no opinion, because it is unnecessary in

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Poole v. Fleeger.]

this case, whether this prohibition of the constitution is not to be understood as necessarily subject to the exception of the right of the
states, under the same constitution, to make compacts with each
other; in order to settle boundaries and other disputed rights of territory and jurisdiction.
In the progress of the trial one or two other objections were made,
which may require some notice. The defendants objected to the
introduction of the will of Frederick Rohrer, under which the
plaintiffs claimed as devisees, as evidence; first. because the probate
and certificate of that will (it having been made and proved in PennsylvaLfa) were not such as to authorize its registration in the st~te of
Tennessee; secondly, because the will was not registered inthe state
of Tennessee, until after the institution of this suit. The court
overruled the objection. But it does not appear that any ixception
was taken to the opinion of the court upon this point, at the trial.
On the contrary, the record states, that" no exception to the opinion
of the court permitting the will to be read was taken in the prbgress
of the trial, nor was it stated that the right to do so was reserved.
The practice of the court is, for exceptions to be taken after trial, if
deemed necessary. ' Under these circumstances, some difficulty has
arisen as to the propriety of taking any notice whatsoever of this objection. In the ordinary course of things at the trial, if an objection
is made and overruled as to the admission of evidence, and the party
does not take any exception at the trial, he is understood to waive it.
The exception need not, indeed, then, be put into form, or written
out at large and signed; but it is sufficient that it is taken, and the
right reserved to put it into form, within the time prescribed by the
practice or rules of the court. We do not find any copy of the will,
or any probate or certificate thereof in the record, or any registration thereof; and it is, therefore, impossible for us to say, whether.
the ground assumed in the first. part of the objection is well founded
or not. This leads us strongly to the inference, that the objection
was intentionally waived at the trial. The second ground is clearly
unmaintainable; for, if the registration was rightfilly made in Tennessee, it has relation backwards; and the time of the registration is
wholly immaterial, whether before or after the institution of the
suit.

Aoaolher objection made by the defendants at the trial was to the
evidence of title offered by the lessors of the plaintiff, upon the
ground that this title was a tenancy in common, which would not in

SUPREME COURT.
[Poole v. 1~eeger.]

law support a joint demise. This objection was overruled, with an
intimation that the point would be considered on a motion for a new
trial. No exception was taken to this ruling of the court; and the
new trial was, upon the motion, afterNards refused. The party not
taking any exception, and acquiescing in the intimation of the court,
must be understood to waive the point as a matter of error; and to
insist upon it only as a matter for a new trial. But it is unnecessary to decide the point upon this ground; for, in the state of Tennessee, the uniform practice has been, for tenants in common in
ejectment, to declare on a joint demise, and to recover a part or the
whole of the premises declared for, according to the evidence of
title adduced. This was exptessly decided by the court in Barrow's
Lessee v. Nave, 2 Yerger's Rep. 227, 228; and on that occasion the
court added that this practice had never been drawn in question as
far as they knew, or could ascertain; and in fact no other probably
could be permitted after the act of 1801, ch. 6. see. 60, which provided, "that after issue joined in any ejectment on the title only,
no exceptions to form or substance shall be taken-to the declaration
in any court whatever."
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from.the circuit court of the United States for the district of West
Tennessee, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

