JANUARY TERM, 1837.

LESSEE OF JAxES

H.

41

EWING, rLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JACOB
BURNET.

Ejectment. Ohio. It is the exclusive provnce of the jury to decide what facts
are proved by competent evidence. It is their province to judge of the weight of
testimony as tending, in a greater or less degree, to prove the facts relied upon.
An elder legal title to a lot of ground gives a right of possession, as well as the
legal seizure and possession thereof, co-extensive with the right; which continues
until there shall be an ouster by actual adverse possession, or the right of liossession becomes in some other way barred.
An entry by one on the land of another, is or is not an ouster of the legal possession
arising from the title, according to the intention with which it is done. If made
under claim or colouf of right, it is an ouster; otherwise it is mere trespass. In
legal language the intention guides the entry, and fixes its character.
It is well settled that to constitute an adverse possession there need not be a fence,
a building, or other improvement made; it suffices for this purpose that visible
notorious acts are exercised over the premises in controversy, for twenty one
years, after an entry under a claim and colour of title.
Where acts of ownership have been done upon-land, which from their nature rialcate a notorious claim of property in it, and are contipued for twenty-one years
with the knowledge of an adverse claimant, without interruption or an adverse
entry by him for twenty-one years; such acts are evidence of an ouster of the
forme," owner, and of an actual hdverse possession agaiist him; if the jury shall
think that the property was not susceptible of a more strict and definite possession
than had been so taken and held. Neither actual occupation or cultivation are
necessary to constitute actual possession, when the property is so situated as not
to admit of any permanent useful improvement; and the continued claim of the
party has been evidenced by public acts of ownership, such as lie would exercise
over property which he claimed in his own right, and could not exercise over property which he did not claim.
Punctuation is a most fallible standard by which to interpret a writing; it may be
resorted to when all other means fail: but the Court will first take time instrument
by its four corners, in order to ascertain its true meaning. If that is apparent on
judicially inspecting it, the punctuation will not be suffered to change it.
An adverse possession for twenty-one years under clai'm or colour of title merely
void, is a bar to a recovery under an lder title by deed; although the adverse
holder may have had notice of the deed.

IN error from the circuit court of the district of Ohio.
The plaintiff in error instituted an action of ejectment in the circuit court of Ohio, at December term, 183, against the defendant, to

recover a lot of ground in the city of Cincinnati. Both the plaintiff
and the defendant claimed title under deeds from John Cleves
VOL. XI.-F

42

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Ewing v. Burnet.]

Symmes, the original grantee of the United States, for all the land
on which the city of Cincinnati is erected. The deed from Symmes,
under which the plaintiff asserted his-title, was executed June-lith,
,1798, to Samuel Forman-; the deed from Symmes to the defendant,
for the same lot, was dated May 21, 1803. An adverse possession
for twenty-one years, and upwards, was relied on, as constituting a
sufficient legal title, under the statute of limitations of Ohio. The
case, and the evidence, are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The cause was tried at July term, 1835, and a verdict under the
instructions of the court, was found for the defendant, on which a
judgment was rendered. The plaintiff tendered a bill of exceptions.
The charge of the court was as follows The plaintiff having shown a deed for the premis.-s in controversy
older in date than that which was given in evidence by the defendant, on the prayer of the defendant, the court. nstructed the jury
that -his actual possession of the lot, to protect his title under the
statute of limitations, must have been twenty-one. years before the
commencement of this suit. That suing for trespass on the lot, paying the taxes, and speaking publicly of his claim, were not sufficient
to constitute an adverse possession. That any possession short of an
exclusive appropriation of the property by an actual occupancy of
it, so as to give notice to the public and all concerned, that he not
only claimed the lot, bui enjoyed the profits arising out of it,'was
such an adverse possession as the statute requires. That to constitute an adverse possession it is not essential that the property should
be enclosed by a fence, or have a dwelling house upon it. If it were
so situated as to admit of cultivation as a garden, or for any other
purpose without an enclosure, and it was so cultivttcd by the defendant during the above period, it would be sufficient; or if the
lot contained a coal mine, or marble or stone 'quarry, and it was
worked the above period by the defendant, he having entered under
a deed for the whole lot, such an occupancy would be an adverse
possession, though the lot had no dwelling house upon it, and was
not enclosed by a fence. And also, if tie lot contained a valuable
sand bank which was exclusively possessed and used by the defendant for his own benefit, by using the sand himself and selling it to
others, and his occupancy of the lot in this manner was notorious to
he public and all concerned; and if the defendant paid the taxes for
the same,. ejected and prosecuted trespasses on the lot, it being situ-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

43

[Ewing v. Burnet.]

ated adjoining to the lots on which the defendant actually resided,
except the intervention of a street which had not been graduated and
opened so as to be. used by the public; and said lot preserved -the
view of the defendant from his residence unobstructed, and such possession was continued the time required by the statute, it would
constitute an adverse possession for the whole lot, the defendant
having entered under a deed as aforesaid. The -court also said'to
the jury the law had been settled in Kentucky, that if a person
residing on a tract of land should purchase by deed another tract
adjoining to it, his possessipn would not be extended.over the tract
thus purchased; and that this seemed to be reasonable, and was sustained by the doctrines of possession as generally recognised. That
had the lot in controversy adjoined the premises on which the defendant resided, the case would come within the rule; but that a
street intervened between the residence of the defendant and the
lot in controversy, which would prevent an application of the rule.
Mr. Storer, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the circuit
court had erred, in charging the jury that the evidence adduced by
the defendant established an adverse possession of the lot of ground
in controversy, for twenty-one years.
2. That a part of the charge was erroneous in having laid down
law as applicable to a supposititious and different case, and in so
stating it as that it was applied, by the jury, to the case on trial.
The substance of all the testimony is this: The defendant, Jacob
Burnet, claimed to be the owner of the lot under a deed dated in
1804. He has occasionally driven persons away from the lot, and
prevented sand-diggers from- carrying off sand. In 1820 he leased
the privilege of digging sand. No fence was ever built around the
lot, but, on the contrary, the lot was laid open as.a common, and
was passed over daily by the witnesses. Mr. Burnet has his residence on the opposite side of the street, and his own lot, opposite to
this, on which was his dwelling, was fenced in. He has paid taxes
on the lot since 1810, and has once or twice brought suit against
persons for trespassing on the lot; and has always claimed it as his
own.
If these facts constitute an adverse possession, then the judgment
is right. The evidence being all before the court, in the bill of exceptions, whether they constitute or amount to an adverse possession, is a question of law. "Adverse possession is a legal idea ;

SUPREME COURT.
[Ewing v. Burnet.]

admits of a legal definition of legal distinctions; and is, therefore,
correctly laid down to be a question of law." Bradstreet v. Huntington. 5 Peters' Rep. 438.
'In the absence of proof of any actual possession of the premises
in controversy, the law presumes a possession in the person having
the legal. title: as the plaintiff's lessor shows the elder title in this case,
and the law having attached to that title a:constructive possession,
the proof of an actual adverse possession is cast upon the defendant.
The law raises no presumptions against the elder title; it will not
presume that any thing has been done: hence the defendant must
show, beyond any reasonable doubt, first, that there has been an adverse possession; second, that adverse possession has continued for
at least twenty-one years. 8 Cranch, 250; 5 Peters, 355; 3 Wendall, 152; 4 Mass. 417; 3 Johns. Ca. 124; 10 Serg. & Rawle, 305.
First. There must, then, have been an adverse possession; and
here the inquiry will be what constitutes such a possession, so as to
create a bar to the recovery of the true owner?
To constitute an ouster of him who was seised, the deprivor must
have the actual exclusive occupation of the land, claiming to hold it
against him who was seised, or he must actually turn him out of
possession. 4 Mass. Rep. 418; I Mass. Rep. 486.
"Adverse possession must be marked by definite boundaries, and
be regularly continued down, to render it availing." 9 Cowen, 654;
10 Johns. Rep. 477. "The act of limitation does not prevent the
entry of the owner of the land, and bringing an jectment at any
time, unless when there has been an actual, continued, visible, notorious, distinct, and hostile possession for lwenty-one years." 6
Serg. & Rawle, 23.
"Rights, barred by limitations, are where there is an actual, exclusive, adverse possession; definite, positive, and notorious; marked
by definite boundaries; an uninterrupted and continued possession
for twenty-one years." 3 Serg. & Rawle, 294; 1 Har. & Johnson,
545; 5 Har. & Johnson, 266. "The possession that will give a title,
under the statute of limitations, must be an actual occupancy, apedispossessio, definite, positive, and notorious." 2 Nott & M'Cord,
343.
"Digging a canal, and felling trees, are not such acts of possession
as may be the basis of the prescription of thirty years." 12 Martin's Rep. 11; 9 Martin's Rep. 123; Appendix to Adams on Eject.
493.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

45

[Ewing v. Burnet.]

"The occasional exercise of dominion, by broken and unconnected
acts of ownership, over property which may be made permanently
productive, is in no respect calculated to assert to the world a claim
of right; for such conduct bespeaks rather the fitful invasions of a
conscious trespasser, than the confident claims of a rightful owner."
2 N. Car. Law. Rep. 400. "This title by possession, so as to defeat
a grant or other legal conveyance, is never to be presumed, but
must be actually proved and shown, in order to rebut a prior title,
in the same manner and with the same degree of precision, as plaintiff must show a clear title in himself before he can recover." 2
Bay's Rep. 491.
"It is a settled rule that the doctrine of adverse possession is to be
taken strictly, and not to be made out by inference, but by clear and
positive proof. Every presumption is in favour of possession in
subordination to the title of the true owner." 9 John. Rep. 167;
8 Jahn. Rep. 228; 5 Pickering, 134-5; 3 John. Cases, 124; 1
Cowen, 285.
Again. There-must not only have been an adverse possession, but
such possession must have continued during the period of twentyone years.
"This possession must not only continue, but it must continue the
same in point of locality, during the prescribed period of time, sufficient to constitute it a bar; that is to say, a roving possession, from
one part of a tract of land to another, cannot bar the right of entry
of the owner upon any.part of the land which had not been held
adversely for twenty-one years." Hall's Lgw Journal, 255, 256.
"The possession must have so continued that at any time an ejectment might have been brought against an occupant on *theland, to
try the right of entry." 3 A.-K. Marshall's Ken. Rep. 366.
"If there is any period, during the twenty years, in which the
person having the right of entry could not find an occupant on the
land, on whom he could bring and sustain his ejectment, that period
cannot be counted against him." Braxdale v. Speed; 3 A. K. Marshall's Rep. 366; 4 Bibb, 257; 1 A. K. Marshall's Rep. 106; Smith
v. Mitchell; 1 A. K. Marshall's Rep. 208.
"An occasional use of the land, either by cutting down and taking
away trees, digging or taking away.stone or sand, or making sugar
once a year, will not amount to an adverse possession." 1 A. K.
Marshall's Rep. 106.
"'In the case of Smitli v. Mitchell, 1 Marshall, 208, the court

SUPREME COURT.
[Ewing v. Burnet."

determined that the appellee, having occasionally, for upwards of
twenty years, made sugar at a camp erected by him upon the land in
contest, did not confer upon him such-a possession as would bar the
plaintiff's right of entry." 3 3'. J. Marshall, 519.
Where the junior patentee, in such case, has neither settled upon
nor imp'oved the land, the senior patentee, in such "case has a right
to consider each act of occupation as a mere temporary intrusion."
3 J. J. Marshall, 552.
Applying these cases to the cause before the court, it is believed
that the evidence given by the defendant, on the trial, did not establish an adverse possession, and that the court ought so to have instructed the jury. Taking the whole evidence together, and drawing
all the fair legal inferences from it, it is not proved that the defendant
has been in the continued adverse possession of the lot in controversy
for twenty-one years. There is nothing more than evidence of occasional acts of ownership over the property. If cutting down trees,
making sugar, digging canals, &c., on the land, are not evidence of an
actual adverse possession; how can the occasional drawing of a load
of sand, or driving people away from the lot, be considered as more
convincing evidence of an actual possession?
It is not contended, that, in order to constitute an actual adverse
possession the lot must be enclosed by a fence; on the contrary, it
is admitted that a fence is not actually necessary; it is merely evidence of the fact of occupancy; but it is the actual occupancy itself,
connected with the claim of title that constitutes the bar. Land
may be occupied without a fence; and we know that in some countries, thousands of acres of land are occupied and tilled although not
under fence. In many parts of Europe, at this day, this is the case.
But the fact of the land being occupied, and crops annually gathered,
shows that an exclusive ownership is claimed by some one; and if
it is not the true owner that is so using the land, it becomes him to
assert his right in time. So it is willifigly admitted that a lot may be
so used and occupied for a period of years, without fencing, as to bar
the right owner. For instance, a lot may be used for a coal or lumber yard; the continually keeping such coal-or lumber on the lot may
as conclusively show an adverse holding, as though a fence was built
around it. But because there may be such an adverse occupancy
without ferree, it does not follow that every pretence of ownership,
or even a succession of trespasses in digging or permitting others to
dig a load of sand on the lot, will constitute an adverse holding.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Ewing v. Burnet.]

Admit the doctrine to the full extent, as contended for by the defendant, and it leads to this 'esult, that any person may, by trespassing on
his neighbour's lot or land occasionally, in the course of time become
the owner of that land. Apply the same doctrine to wild land, and
no man can safely own such property. Vacant lots in town are not
usually enclosed, and so long as the public are permitted to pass over
them, so long as they lie in common, it appears that it would be
extremely dangerous to admit a title by adverse holding. If a man
holding such property will rely upon a mere possession under a defective title, it is surely not requiring of him too much, (where no
actual occupancy takes place,) in compelling him to erect his feic,
thereby giving all the world to know that he claims, to the exclusion
of all other owners. The decision made-by this Court,. in Ellicot
and Pearl, 10 Peters, 414, since the trial of this cause, has been examined: the Court are not asked to interfere with that decision;
nothing is found therein opposed to the present case. It is not contended thkt an occupancy of land can only be proved by the erection
of a fence, or actual residence, or actual possession must be proved,
without either fence or actual residence; and these are the positions
decided in the cases alluded to. That case does not, therefore, affect
the present controversy.
2. As to the second point, that the charge of the court was incorrect, in stating the law of a case different from that submitted to the
jury, the judge said:... ,If the defendant paid the taxes for the lot
ejected, and prosecuted trespassers on the lot, it being situated adjoining to the lot on which the defend:, t actually resided, except the
intervention of a street, which had
t been graded and opened so
as to be useful to the public; and said lot preserved the view of the
defendant from his residence unobstructed, and 'such possession was
continued the time, &c., it would constitute an adverse possession."
This appears calculated to convey the. impression to the jury, -thai
the mere design on the part of the occupant of a house, on an adjoining lot, not in dispute, to preserve an unbroken view to his residence, may be considered as tending to establish an adverse possession of the lot in dispute. Surely, such a position cannot be sustained
upon any sound principle of law. If once admitted, it would place
all vacant town lots in the utmost jeopardy. Nothing is more cornmon in towns, particularly of modern origin, than to have a house
surrounded with vacant lots; and if an actual occupation, or an enclosure, can be dispensed with merely on the grouid that the claim-

SUPREME COURT.
[Ewing v. Burnet.]

ant intended to preserve the view to a house on an adjoining lot, or
a lot on the opposite side of the street; it is tantamount to establishing
the proposition that neither actual occupancy, nor an enclosure, is
necessary to constitute an adverse possession of a city lot
The charge of the court, therefore, was entirely incorrect; and
must have had an influence with the jury unfavourable to the plaintiff's rights.
Mr. Ewing for the defendant. The point presented by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, that the establishment of a subsequent
title derived from the same source as the prior title, cannot affect the
prior title, was not presented in the circuit court; and it cannot therefore be made a part of the case in this Court.
The whole question on the trial of the cause was the effect of the
adverse possession asserted by the defendant, resting it on the statute of limitations of Ohio, upon the title of the plaintiff by deed,
admitted to be prior in date to the deed under which the defendant
also claimed.
Under the statute of limitations of Ohio, and under the general
law, the circuit court had no right to exclude from the jury the evidence of possession. Some of the witnesses expressly say that the
defendant had possession of the lot for upwards of twenty years; and
thus the court had no right to weigh the evidence. It was not the
duty of the court to say the evidence did not make out the case.
It is true, title by possession is a legal title; but facts must be
proved to make it out. The court was bound to state what facts
would make out such a title, and they did so.
-Did the court lay down'the law correctly in favour of the plaintiff
and the defendant, in the.charge to thejury? All the statements of the
law are right, and the plaintiff has therefore no right to complain.
It is said there cannot be two constructive possessions of the same
property. This may be true; but the defendant does not claim a
constructive possession, but an actual possession; and an ejectment
might always have beez, brought against him by the plaintiff's lessee.
Mr. Storer in reply, insisted that asking a court to charge the jury
whether the whole evidence was sufficient to establish an adverse
possession, and asking instructions of the court on the whole evidence,.are the same as a demurrer to evidence.

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[Ewing v. Burnet.]

Mr. Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
In the court below, this was an action of ejectment, brought in
November, 1834,- by the lessor of the plaintiff, to recover possession
of lot No. 209, in the city of Cincinnati; the legal title to which is
admitted to have been in John Cleves Symmes, under whom both
parties clalmed: the plaintiff, by a deed dated lth of June, 1798,
to Samuel Foreman, who, on the next day, conveyed to Samuel Williams, whose right, after his death, became vested in the plaintiff: the
defendant claimed by a deed to himself, dated 21st of May, 1803,
and an adverse possession of twenty-one years before the bringing of
the suit. It was in evidence tfat the lot in controversy is situated on
the corner of Third and Vine streets; fronting on the former one hundred and ninety-eight, on the latter ninety-eight feet; the part on
Third street is level for a short distance, but descends towards the south
along a steep bank, from forty to fifty feet, to its south line; the side of
it was washed'in gullies, over and around which the people of the place
passed and repassed at pleasure. The bed of the lot was principally
sand and gravel, with but little loam or soil; the lot was not fenced,
nor had any building or improvement been erected or made upon it,
until within a few years before suit brought; a fence could have been
kept up on the level ground on the top of the hill on Third street,
but not on its declivity, on account of the deep gullies washed in the
bank; and its principal use and value was in the convenience of
digging sand and gravel for the inhabitants. Third street separated
this lot from the one on which the defendant resided from 1804,
for many years, his mansion fronting on that street; he paid the taxes
upon this lot from 1810, until 1834, inclusive; and from the date of
the deed from S~mmes, until the trial, claimed it as his own. During
this time, he also claimed the exclusive right of digging and removing sand 'and gravel from the lot; giving permission to some, refusing
it to others; he brought actions of trespass against.those who had
done it, and at different times made leases to different persons, for
the purpose of taking sand and gravel therefrom, besides taking it for
his own use, as he pleased. This had been d6ne by others without
his permission, but there was no evidence of his acquiescence in the
claim of any person to take or remove the sand or gravel, or that he
had ever intermitted his claim to the exclusive right of doing so; on
the contrary, several witnesses testified to his continued assertion of
right to the lot; their knowledge of his exclusive claim, and their
ignorance of any adverse claim for more than twenty-one years beVoL.. XI.-G

SUPREME COURT.
[Ewing v. Burnet.]

fore the present suit was brought. They further stated, as their conClusion from these facts, that the defendant had, from 1806, or 7, in
the words of one witness, "had possession of the lot;" of another,
that since 1804, "1 he was as perfectly and exclusively in possession,
as any person could possibly be of a lot not built on or enclosed;"
and of a third, "that since 1811, he had always been in the most
rigid possession of the lot in dispute; a similar possession to other
possessions on the hill lot." It was further in evidence, that Samuel
Williams, under whom the plaintiff claimed, lived in Cincinnati,
from 1803, till his death in 1824; was -informed of defendant having obtained a deed from Symmes, in 1803, soon after it was obtained, and kinew of his claim to the lot; but there was no evidence
that he ever made an entry upon it, demanded possession, or exercised or assumed any exercise of ownership over it; though he declared to one witness, produced by plaintiff, that the lot was his, and
he intended to claim and improve it when he was able. This declaration was repeated often; from 1803, till the fime of his death, and
on his death-bed; and it appeared that he was, during all this time,
very poor; it also appeared in evidence, by the plaintiff's witness,
that the defendant was informed that Williams owned the lot before
the deed from Symmes, in 1803, and after he had made the purchase.
This is the substance of the evidence given at the trial, and re-turned with the record and a bill of exceptions, stating that it contains
all the evidence offered in the cause: whereupon the plaintiff's counsel moved the court to instruct the jury that on this evidence the
plaintiff was entitled to a verdict; also that the evidence offered by
the plaintiff and defendant, was not sufficient, in law, to establish an
adverse possession by the defendant: which motions the court overruled. This forms the first ground of exception by the plaintiff to
the overruling his motions: 1. The refusal of the court to instruct
the jury that he was entitled to recover: 2. That the defendant had
made out an adverse possession.
Before the court could have granted the first motion, they must
have been satisfied that there was nothing in evidence, or any fact
which the jury could lawfully infer therefrom, which could in any
way prevent the plaintiff's recovery; if there was any evidence
which conduced to prove any fact that could produce such effect,
the court must assume such fact to have .been prqve.d; for it'is the
exclusive province of the jury to decide what facis are proved by

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

51

[Ewing v. Burnet.]

competent evidence, it was also their province to judge of the credibility of the witnesses, and the weight of their testimony, as tending, in a greater or less degree, to prove the facts relied on; as these
were matters with which the court could not interfere, the plaintiff's
right to- the instruction asked, must depend upon the opinion of the
court, on a finding by the jury in favour of the defendant, on every.
matter which the evidence conduced to prove; giving full credence
to the witnesses produced by him, and discrediting the witbess for
the plaintiff.
Now as the jury might have-refused credence to the onl; "'itness
who testified to the notice given to- the defendant of Williams'
ownershipi of the lot in 1803, and of his subsequent assertion of
claim, and intention to improve it; the testimony of this witness
must be thrown out of the case, in testing the correctness of the
court in overruling this motion; otherwise we should hold the court
below to have erred, in not instructing the jury on a matter exclusively for their consideration; the credibility of a witness, or how
far his evidence tended to prove a fact, if they deemed him credible.
This view of the case, throws the plaintiff'back to his deed, as the
only evidence of title; on the legal effect of which, the court were
bound to instruct the jury as matter of law, which is the only question to be considered on this exception.
It is clear, that the plaintiff had the elder legal title to the lot in
dispute, and that it gave him a right of possession, as well as the
legal seisin and possession thereof, co-extensively with his right;
which continued till he was ousted by an actual adverse possession;
6 Pet. 743; or his right of possession had been in some other way
barred. It cannot be doubted, that from the evidence adduced by
the defendant, it was competent for the jury td infer these facts;
that he had claimed this lot under colour and claim of title, from
1804, till 1834; had exercised acts of ownership on, and over it,
during this whole period; that his claim was known to Williams
and to the plaintiff; was visible; of public notoriety for twenty years
previous to the death of Williams. Arid if the jury did not credit
the plaintiff's witness, they might also find that the defendant had
no actual notice of Williams' claim; that it was unknown to the
inhabitants of the place, while that of. the defendants was known;
and that Williams never did -claim the lot, or assert a right to it
from 1803, till his death in 1824. The jury might also draw the
same conclusion from these factsi as -the witnesses did; that the de-

SUPREME COURT.
[Ewing v. Burnet.]

fendant was during the whole time in possession of the lot, as strictly,
perfectly, and exclusively, as any person could be of a lot not
enclosed or built upon; or as the situation of the lot would admit of.
The pla-tiff must therefore rely on a deed of which he had given
no notice, and in opposition to all the evidence of the defendant,
and every fact which a jury could find, that would show a right of
possession in him, either by the presumption of a release or conveyance of the elder legal title, or by an adverse possession. On
the evidence in the cause the jury might have presumed a release, a
conveyance, or abandonment of the claim or right of Williams,
under a deed in virtue of which he had made no assertion of right
from 1798, in favour of a possession, such as the defendant held
from 1804; though it may not have been strictly such an adverse
possession, as would have been a legal bar under the act of limitations. There may be circumstances which would justify such a presumbtion in less than twenty-one years: 6 Pet. 513: and we think
that the evidence in this case was in law sufficient to authorize the
jury to have made the presumption to protect a possession of the
nature testified for thirty years; and if the jury could so presume,
there is no error in overruling the first motion of the plaintiff.
On the next motion, the only question presented is on the legal
sufficiency of the evidence to make out an ouster of the legil scisin
Iand possession of Williams by the defendant; and a continued
adverse
possession for twenty-one years belore suit brought.
An entry by one man on the land of another, is an ouster of the
legal possession arising from the title, or not; according to the intention with which itis done: if made under claim and colour of right,
it is an ouster; otherwise it is a mere trespass, in legal language the
"ntention guides the entr'y, and fixes its character. That the evidence
in this case justified 'he jury in finding an entry by the def6ndant
on thislot, as early as 1804, cannot be doubted; nor that he claimed
the exclusive right4o it under colour of title, from that time till suit
brought There was abundant evidence of the intention with which
the first entry was made, as well as of the subsequent acts related by
the witnesses, to justify a finding that they were in assertion of a
right in himself; so that the only inquiry is, as to the nature of the
possession kept up. It is well settled that to constitute an adverse
possession, there need not be a fence, building, or other improve'ment made: 10 Pet. 442: it suffices for this purpose, that -isible and
notorious acts of ownership are exercised over the premises in con-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

53

[Ewing v. Burnet.]

troversy, for twenty-one years, after an entry under claim and colour
of title. So much depends on the nature and situation of the property, the uses to which it can be applied, or to which the owner or
claimant may choose to apply it; that it is'difficult to lay down any
precise rule adapted to all cases. But it may with safety be said,
that where acts of ownership have been done upon land, which, from
their nature indicate a notorious claim of property in it, and are continued for twenty-one years, with the knowledge of an adverse
claimant without interruption, or an adverse entry by him, for
twenty-one years; such acts are evidence of an ouster of a former
owner, and an actual adverse possession against him: if the jury
shall think, that the property was not susceptible of a more strict, or
definite possession than had been so taken, and held. Neither actual
occupation, cultivation, or residence, are necessary to constitute
actual possession; 6 Pet. 513; when the property'is so situated as
not to admit of any permanent useful improvement: and the continued claim of the party has been evidenced by public acts of
ownership, such as he would exercise over property which he
claimed in his own right, and would not exercise over property
which he did not claim. Whethek this was the situation of the lot
in question, or such was the nature of the acts done, was the peculiar
province of the jury; the evidence in our opinion was legally sufficient to draw the inference that such were the facts of the case; and
if found specially, would have entitled the defendant to the judgment of the court in his favour; they, of course, did not ei'r in refusing
to instruct the jury that the evidence was not sufficient to make
out an adverse possession.
The remaining exceptions are to the charge of the court, in which
we can perceive no departure from established principles. The
learned judge was very explicit in stiting the requisites of an adverse
possession; the plaintiff had no cause of complaint of a charge, stating
that exclusive appropriation by an actual occupancy; notice to the
public, and all concerned of the claim, and enjoyment of profits by
defendant, were all necessary. No adjudication of this court has
established stricter rules than these: and if any doubts could arise, as
to their entire correctness, it would be on an exception by the defendant. In applying them in the subsequent part of the charge to the
evidence, there seems to have been no relaxation of these rules. The
case put by the court, as one of adverse possession, is of a valuable
sand bank exclusively possessed, and used by the defendant, for his

SUPREME COURT.
[Ewing v. Xurnet.]

own benefit, by using and selling the sand; and this occupancy,
notorious to the public alid all concerned; which fully meets all the
requisites before stated, to constitute adverse possession. If we take
the residue of the charge literally, it would seem to superadd other
requisites; as the payment of taxes, ejecting and prosecuting trespassers on/the lot; its contiguity to the defendant's residence, &c.;
but such is not the fair construction of the charge, or the apparent
meaning of the court. These circumstances would seem to have
been alluded to, to show the intention with which the acts previously referred to were done; in which view tlfey were important,
especially, the uninterrupted payment of taxes on the lot for twentyfour successive years; which is powerful evidence of a claim of right
to the whole lot. The plaintiff's counsel has considered these circumstances as making a distinct-case in the opinion of the court, for
the operation of the statute; and has referred to the punctuation of
the sentene, in support of this view of the charge. Its obvious
meaning is, however, to state these as matters acditional or cumulative to the preceding facts; not as another distinct case made out by
the evidefce, on which alone the jury could find an adverse possession. Punctuation is a most fallible standard by which to interpret a
writing; it may be resorted to when all other means fail; but- the
Court will first take the instrument by its four corners, in order to
ascertain iis true meaning: if that is apparent on judicially inspecting
the whole, the punctuation will not be suffered to change it.
It has also been urged, in argument, that as the defendant had
notice of the claim of Williams, his possession was not fair and
honest, and so not protected by the statute. This admits of two
answers: 1. The jury were authorized to negative any notice; 2.
Though there was such notice of a prior deed, as would make a subsequent one inoperative to pass any title, yet an adverse possession
for twenty-one years, under claim and colour of title, merely void,
is a bar; the statutory protection being necessary, only where the
defendant has no other title but possession, during the period prescribed.
The judgment of the circuit court, is therefore affirmed.

