SUPREME CO1TRT.

'r 1

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. JACOB AND ISAAC
LEFFLER.

The United States instituted a joint action on a joint and several bond, executed by
a collector of taxes, &c. and his sureties. The defendant, the principal in the
bond, confessed a judgment, by a cognovit actionem, and the United States issued
an execution against his body. on the judgment; upon which he was imprisoned,
and was afterwards discharged from confinement under the insolvent laws of the
United States. The United States proceeded against the other defendants, ad
on the trial of the cause before a jury, the principal in the bond having bee4 released by his co-obligors, was offered by the defendants, and admitted by the circuit court, to prove that one of the co-obligors had executed the bond on condition
that others would execute it, which had hot been done. The circuit court admitted the evidence. Held that there was no error in the decision.
The principle settled by this Court, in the case of Bank of the United States v.
Dunn, 6 Peters, 51, goes to the exclusion of the evidence of a parts, to a negotiable
instrument, upon the ground of the currency given to them by the name of the
witness called to impeach its validity; and does not extend to any other case to
which that reasoning does not apply.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Virginia.
The United States instituted an action of debt on a joint and several bond executed on the 8th of December, 1816, by Salathiel Curtis,
Jacob Leffler, Isaac Leffler, Benjamin Biggs, and Reuben Foreman,
conditioned for the faithful performance by Salathiel Curtis, of the
duties of collector of taxes, then held by him. The cause abated as
to Biggs and Foreman, by their deaths.
After the institution of the suit, and prior to the trial of the same
against Jacob and Isaac Leffler, the defendants in error; Salathiel
Curtis, who .had appeared and pleaded to The action, by his attorney,
withdrew his plea; and, having said nothing in bar to the action of
the plaintiffs, the court, on consideration thereof, gave judgment for
the plaintiffs against him for the debt mentioned in the declaration,
with costs. Afterwards, the United States sued out an execution on
the judgment against the body of the defendant, who was taken, and
was in the custody of the marshal; when, he being in suah custody,
under a warrant from the President of the United States, bearing
date on the eightl{ day of May, 1824, he Was duly discharged from

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

87

[United States v. Leffiler.J

custody, under the insolvent laws of the United States, he having
complied with the requisitions of those laws.
The United States proceeded to a trial of the suit against the defendants, Jacob and Isaac Leffler, in Decembcr, 1835, upon issues
joined on two pleas of Jacob Leffler; the first being a plea of non
est factum, and the second a special plea, to the same effect, setting
forth that he had executed the bond in question, as an escrow, a,.d
on the condition that it should be executed by certain other persons,
as co-sureties for Salathiel Curtis, who did not execute the same.
On the trial of the cause, the defendant, Jacob Leffier, to support the
issue of non est factum, offered in evidence the' deposition of Salathiel Curtis, which deposition was objected to by the district attorney of the United States. The deposition stated that Jacob Lefflir
and Reuben Foreman, executeu the bond under th.e impression, and
on the condition that the deponent could procure the signiatures of
other persons to the same, and they were not so procured.
The competency of the witness being so objected to on the part of
the United States; evidence of the procqcdlings against him to judgment, anl execution, and of his discharge under the insolvent laws
of the United States, was given by the defendant Jacob Leffier; and
the circuit court having overruled the objection, the deposition taken
after the said proceedings, was admitted in evidence. The jury found
a verdict for the defendant, in which judgment was given, and the
United States having taken a bill of exceptions to the evidence, this
writ of error was prosecuted on their behalf.
The case was argued by Mr. Butler, attorney-general, for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Webster for the defendants.
Mr. Butler contended that the deposition of Salathiel Curtis was
not admissible in evidence; and that the judgment of the circtut
court should therefore be reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
The precise question involved in the case before the court arose
in the case of Pauling v. the U. S. 4 Cranch, 219; but it was not decided. The-United States now insisted that the'principal obligor In
a bond is not a witness to invalidate it: he having affirmcd it by
executing it; and hiving by his own falsehood and fr.ud involved
the public In the losses they sustained, by entering on his duties as
the collector of taxes, under such circumstances.
The case of Walton v. Shelly, 1 Term Reports, was the first case

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v.Leffler.]

which decided the principle on which the admission of this evidence
is resisted. While it is admitted the decisions of the courts of the
different states vary as to the rule adopted in the case referred to;
this Court, in the case of the Bank of the United States v. Dunn,
have asserted and applied it, 6 Peters, 57. In Virginia, in a case in
3 Randolph's Rep. 316, it has been expressly repudiated.
It makes no-difference where the bond was executed; arid although
executed in Virginia, it looked to the city of Washington for the
performance ot the conditions imposcd by it; the principal obligor
being a collector of taxes, and required by the law under which he
acted to account for the taxes collected by him at the treasury department. This was so decided in the case of Coxe v. Dick, 6 Peters
173, 202 A bond executed in Louisiana was to be considered as
ntade in the district of Columbia.
There is a slight difference between the condition of the bond in
the two cases, but the difference is more favourable to the principle
claimed. In this case, the duties of the officer were to be performed
according, to law; in Cox's case, the money was to be paid as the
officer might be directed. If the law of this district is to prevail,
the case is decided; for this Court has said that no one who has put
his name to an instrument shall be permitted to discredit it. It is
adriitted that the case referred to was like that of Walton v. Shelly;
iii which the instrument was negotiable.
But if the lav of Virginia is to prevail, it will be shown that the
witness was a party to the suit, was interestdd in it, and could not by
the defendant's release be made a witness.
The suit was brought on a joint and several bond, but the plaintiffs
ha ieunit~d.to treat it as a joint bond. It is a rule in Virginia, that
-in an action on a joint and several bond, the plaintiff may treat it as
he'pleases; but if he ireats it as a joint bond, he must sue all; he cannot sue only a part of the obligors. 1 Henning and Munford, 61; 1
Munfor4, 406. This suit is against all the five obligors, arid if the
United States fail to make out a joint obligation they will be defeated.
Any thing which may serve, an individual for his own defente
may be given in evidence, as in cases of bankruptcy in England,
and cases of infancy there and here. But such evidence will be applicable to the person of the individual obligor, after its execution;
and not to the execution of the instrument, as it might defeat the
whole action, by destroying the joint action.' If it should appear

JANUARY. TERM, 1837.

89

[United States v. Leffler.]

that one of the obligors executed the bond on a condition that made
it void, the bond would be void. This is distinctly stated in 4 Cranch,
223.

In the case of
on it would fail,
was several. A
as to all when it

a forged signature to a joint bond, the whole action
on proof of the forgery. Not so when the actionjoint action, or a joint and several one, is defeated
is defeated as to one; 2 Mumford, 331; 2 Bin. Rep.

195; 3 Randolph, 316, 327, 334, 340, 351, 357, 360. In this case
it was held that a defendant, or a party to a joint bond, could not be
released by his co-obligor, as he is liable to costs, notwithstanding
his release. 3 Leigh's Rep. 590.
These cases are in conformity with the rules of the common law.
One defendant cannot give judgmedt against himself, to make himself a witness, and defeat.the whole instrument.
3. A party to a suit cannot be called as a wit ness. He is incompetent because he is a party to the record. This is a general rule of
the conmmon law; and the only case in which such party can be d
witness, is where his testimony will not affect the original contract.
The rule which excludes a party to thc-record from giving evidence,
is peculiar to the common law. In equity it is otherwise.
It is, therefore, only necessary to show that Salathiel Curtis was a
party to the record. 'This is apparent on the face of the proceedings. He was so originally, and he continued to be so. As to the
judgment entsred against him having made him no party to the subsequent proceedings; it is contended, that the judgment was irregular.
The practice in all courts is to continue the case as to a defendant
who is in default, until the cause shall be determined against all.
This shows the proceeding to have been irregular. The fact that
the attorney of the United States made no objection to it, and afterwards issue(I execution on it, does not alter the case. It was irregular; it was void and coul ( not be made valid. It could hve been set
aside. That Curtis suffered imprisonment does not cure the defects
of the judgment.
The discharge of Curtis by the United States-has no influence in
this case. The discharge was not of his debts, but from the imprisonment; 5 Peters, 186; 1 Peters, 573; 1 Gallison, 8.
In any view which can be taken of the case, Curtis was not a witness. He was a party; to the suit a party named in the record; he
had a dormant, but a substantial interest in its result, both as to the
VOL. XI.-%

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v.'Leffler.]

amount of the recovery, and between the parties for costs, and for
costs to the United States on a general judgment to the parties to
the bond.
If there is any case in which the moral purposes of the rule will
apply, it is this now before the Court, as public policy: the rule
which excludes a party to an instrument from discrediting it, should
be extended, emphatically, when a public officer who has given currency to an obligation, and has by it obtained the confidence and the
funds of the government should not be allowed to defeat it. The
government is obliged to act through agents, and will be exposed,
extensively, to frauds, unless protected by the application of the principle-to such cases. This is not a reason for asking the Court to
vary an established rule of law, but it is a sufficient reason for asking
the Court to extend a principle, declared by it to be the law in the
case of the Bank of Lhe United States v. Dunn, to a case which required it.
No decision of this Court has been given which allows a party to
the record to be a witness, In New York, the Supreme Court has
decided -that the rule is inflexible, and be is always excluded.
-_Mr. Webster, for the defendant. The case in the court below was
on a bond executed by five persons, four of whom were the sureties
of the other for the performance 6f the duties of colector. When
the -trial took place the state, of the pleadings was as follows. Two
of the obligors were dead; one had made "a cognovit," and the
United States had chosen to take a judgment against him and had
proceeded to execution. He could not have compelled them to go
on. The other two pleaded non est facturn, and that the bond was an
escrow. The case was tried on these issues; and before the trial, the
witness, against whom judgment had been taken, had been released
by the defendants. His testimony was admitted to prove that the
bond was executed on a condition which was not performed.
The objections to the witness are, 1. That he repudiated the
instrument 2. That he had an interest in the result of the suit.
3. That he was a party to the record at the time of the trial, and as
such cannot be permitted to testify.
As to the first o bjection,"the cases of Walton v. Shelly, and Bent
v. Baker, and all the" subsequent cases apply this principle to negotiable instruments; anfd to them only. This is expressly said by this
Court, in the Bank of the United States v. Dunn, 6 Peters, 55. No

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

91

[United States v. Leffler.]

decision in any court of the United States has extended the rule beyond negotiabld instruments; and in England the same qualification
has prevailed The doctrine never applied to a bond.
The second objection is to the interest of the party in the suit.
To sustain this objection an attempt has been made to show that the
whole proceedings against Salathiel Curtis, the principal in the bond,
are void; and that a judgment cannot be taken against one co-obligor
when it is not obtained against all who are joined with him. This position cannot be maintained. After the party has elected to proceed
against one, he cannot afterwards treat the case differently. He has
made the bond several as to him against whom judgment has been entered. Whether wihen the pleas are several, and one defendant ploads
that the bond was an escrow, the plaintiff may not proceed against
the other obligors, it is not necessary now to decide. The case cited
from 4 Cranch' gives no support to the position for which it was referred to.
How can Curtis be interested in the fesult of this suit? A judgment had been entered against him, and the plaifitiff had proceeded
by execution. No other judgment can be obtained. The United
States had made its election, and 'what other proceedings can be
had against him. The judgment remains in full force; if it had
been defective it should have been opened. Could any judgment
be entered against him for costs in this-suit, against Leffler?
Curtis is not a party to this suit. He is in no part of its pleadings
named as a party. .He could not have made a motion in the cause.
He had no day in court. The suit was simply one against the defendants in error. In the case of Worrell v. Jones, 7 Bingham., 395,
it was held that a party-to the record may be a witness if .he has no
interest in the suit. Here Curtis had no interest; or if he had, it
was, until he was released by them, an interest against-the sureties.
Mr. Justice BARBOUR delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the circuit court of the
United States, for the fifth circuit and eastern district of Virginia.
It was an action of debt brought by the United States, against
Salathiiel Curtis, Jacob Leffler, Isaac LDffler, Benjamin Biggs, and
Reuben Foreman, in the district court for the western district of
Virginia, upon a bond executed by Curtis as principal, and the other
defendants as his sureties; conditioned that Curtis, who had been
appointed collector of direct taxes 'and internal duties for-the fifth

SUPREME. COURT.
[United States v. Leffler.]

collection -district of Virginia, had truly and faithfully discharged,
and should continue truly and faithfully to discharge the duties of
his office according to law, and should faithfully collect and pay
according to law, all moneys assessed.upon said digtrict.
The breach charged in the declaration was, that Curtis had, during
his continuance-4=a office, collected the suni of 2992 dollars 12 cents,
of internal dutits, arising from said district, which he had failed to
pay into the treasury department, according to law. To this declaration, the defendant Curtis, separately filed three pleas, the defendant Jacob Leffier two, and the defendants Jacob Leffier, Isaac
Leffier, Reuben Foreman, and Benjamin Biggs, jointly, fifteen other.
pleas, at the rules held in the clerk's office. At the term of the
court next ensuing, the defendant Curtis, the principal obligor, withdrew his pleas: and thereupon his attorney saying that'he was not
informed of any answer to be given for said Curtis, and that he'had
nothing to say in bar, or preclusion of the action, whereby he reoained undefended, judgment was rendered against. him for the debt
in the declaration mentioned, to be discharged by the payment of
2336 dollars 87 cents, with interest, from the 17th of October, 1821,
and the costs.
At the next term thereafter, the pleas filed by the other defendants were withdrawn, and they filed a general demurrer to the declaration; and the defendant, Jacob Leffier, filed two pleas, to wit, a
general and a special non est factum; and he and the other defendants, that is, Isaac Leffiler, Reuben Foreman, and Benjamin Biggs,
filed several special pleas, jointly.
The plaintiffs joined in the demurrer, and time was given them
to-demur or reply to the other pleas. In this posture of the case,
the judge. of the court being concerned in- interest in- the cause,
ordered it, together with an authenticated copy of the proceedings,
to be certified to the circuit court of the United States, for the fifth
circuit and eastern district of Virginia. This was accordingly done.
In that court, the defendants, by leave of the court, filed the plea of
conditions performed, on which issue was joined; and by consent of
the parties, and with the assent of the court, the defendants withdrew all the pleas theretofore filed by them, except the two pleas by
the defendant Jacob Leffier, of general and special non est factum;
with the agreement that all the matters alleged in the pleas thus withdrawn, and all other special matters, of which the defendants should
give the attorney of the United States reasonable notice, might be

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[United States v. Leffler.]

given ir evidefice upon the trial, provided such matters would be
admissible'under any proper form of pleading: and leave was granted
to the attorney of the United States, to amend his declaration. At
a subsequent term, the defendants, by leave of the cdurt, filed an
additional plea, to which the plaintiffs demurred generally; which
demurrer the court sustained and overruled the plea. The plaintiffs thereupon filed an amended declaration against all the defendants,
including Curtis, against whom judgment had been rendered in the
district court as before stated.
Upon this amended declaration and the pleas and agreement last
stated, the cause came on t6 be tried in the circuit court at the November term, 1835, the death of -the defendants, Biggs and Foreman, having been first suggested, whereby the suit as to them
abated.
On the trial, the defendant, Jacob Leffler, to support the issue
joined on his special plea of non est factum, offered the deposition of
Salathiel Curtis, the principal obligor in the bond; to the reading of
which the plaintiffs objected, upon the ground that the witness was
interested in the event of the suit, and was therefore incompetent.
But it appearing that judgment'had been rendered in favour of
the plaintiffs against said Curtis, and that afterwards, Ind before
the examination of the witness, the United States had sued out an
execution upon said judgment against his body, which was duly
levied upon him by the marshal, and that whilst he, the said witness,
was in custody of the marshal, under said execution, to wit, in the
month of May, 1834, he was by virtue of a warrant from the President of the United States, bearing date the 8th of MRy, 1824, duly
discharged from custody, under the insolvent laws of the United
States, he the said witness having complied with the requisitions of
said laws: and it appearingmoreover, that before the examination of
the witness, Jacob Leffler and Isaac Leffler the only parties defendants in the suit then alive, had executed to said witness a r6least of
all claim against him for any money or 6ther thing which h might
be liable to pay them, or either of them, by reason of any recovery
or judgment that might be had against them, or either-of them on
said bond; and also for any costs incurred, or to be irA'i'red by them,
or either of them, by reason of any suit upon said 1iond; the court
allowed the said deposition to go in evidence to the jury, who found
a verdict for the defendants; the plaintiffs thereupon filed their exception, which brings before this Court the question whether the judg-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States-v. Leffler.]

ment of the court below was erroneous, by reason of allowing slid
deposition to go in evidence to the jury?
In the argument, the counsel- for the plaintiffs have taken three
objections to the admissibility of the evidence. 1st. That the witness, being a public officer, .bound to give bond with sureties, and
having delivered over the bond in this case to the government as
having been duly executed by all the obligors, who, from its face,
seemed to have executed it, to allow the witness to prove that it had
been executed as an escrow, by some of them, upon a condition
which had not happened, would be to suffer him to allege his own
turpitude.
2dly. That the witness was incompetent, because he was directly
interested in the event of the suit.
3dly. That he was incompetent, because he was a party upon the
record.
We will examine these bbjections, in the order in which they
have been stated.
The first is, that the witness should not have been received, betause his evidence went to prove his own turpitude. And in support of this objection, we were referred, in the first place, to the case
of Walton and others against Shelly, 1st Term Rep. 296. It was,
indeed, decided in that Ease that a party who had signed any instrument or security, (without limitation as to the character of the
iiistrument,) should not be permitted to give evidence to invalidate
it. It was said, that every man who is a party to 'an instrument
gives credit to it; that it was of consequence to mankind, that no
person sbould hang out false colours to deceive them, by first affixing his signature to a paper, and then giving testimony to invalidate
it. And the civil law maxim, nemo allegans suam turpitudinem audiendus est, was relied on. This case 'was followed a few years
after by that of Bent- against Baker, 3d Term Rep. 27, in which it
was said, that the rule must be confined to negotiable instruments;
and in f798, the case of Jordaine v. Lashbrook, 7th Term Rep. 601,
overruled the case of Walton v. Shelly, even in regard to them; by
decidipg, that in an action by an endorsee of a bill of exchange
against the acceptor, the. latter may call the payee as a witness, to
prove that the bill was void in its creation. And such is the doctrine which has 'since been held- in England. In this Court, in the
case of the Bank of the'United States v,. Dunn, 6 Peters, 51, it
was decided that no man .who Was a-party to a hiegotiable instmri-

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

95

(United States v. Leffler.]

2nent, should be permitted, by his own testimony, to invalidate it.
The principle thus settled by this Court, goes to the exclusion of
such, evidence only in regard to negotiable instruments, upon the
ground of the currency given to them by the name of the witness
called to impeach their validity; and does not extend to any-other
case, to which that reasoning does not apply: the case of the Bank
v. Dunn, then, would be sufficient to defeat the objection which has
been made to the witness, although he executed the bond, and although it was the bond of a public officer.
The second objection is, that the witness was directly interested
in the event of the suit.
This objection may be viewed in two respects. 1st. As it respecfs
the interest of the witness arising from his liability over to his coobligors. who were his sureties. 2dly, As it respects his interest
as being, as it is contended, a party upon the record, and as such,
liable to a joint judgment with the other defendants, Jacob and Isaac
Leffler.
In relation to the first of these aspects, it is certainly true, that in
general, a principaL obligor cannot be a witness for his co-obligors,
who are his sureties in the bond sued upon, even although he be not
a party; this is well settled, both upon principle and authority:
amongst other cases, it was so decided by this Court in the case of
Riddle against Moss, 7 Cranch, 200; upon the plain ground, that he
is liable to his sureties for costs in case judgment should be rendered
against them.
Now, although that was once the position of this witness, yet it
vas not such at the time he was txamined; for it appears by the
bill of exceptions, that before his examination, his sureties had executed a release, in the most ample form, of all claim against him
arising out of their relation to him as sureties upon the bond,, embracing every thing which could be recovered against them, including costs.
There is, then, no interest in the witness in the event of the cause
arising from his supposed liability over to his sureties, the defendants.
The second branch bf the objection relates to his being, as it is
contended, a party upon the record, and as such, liable to ajoint
judgment with the defendants, Jacob and Isaac Leffier, in this suit.
In this respect, the whole question resolves itself into the inquiry,
whether he is, or is not a party upon the record; for it is conceded,

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Leffler.]

'as it must necesarily be, that if he be not, then this branch of the
objection must fail.
The argument to prove that he is a party upon the record is, in
substance, this:-That the plaintiffs having elected to bring a joint
action upon the bond, there could not be a several judgment against
any one of the obligors; but that, it must be a joint one, either
for all, or againstall; that therefore, the several judgment in this
case against Salathiel Gurtis Was erroneous; and that notwithstanding
that judgment, he is still liable to a jointjudgment, together with the
defendants, Jacob and- Isaac Leffler, in the event of one being recovered against them.
The general proposition thus statd, that in a joint action upon a
bond against several obligors the judgment 'must be joint against
them all, is admitted to be true; we say.the general proposition,
because' there are exceptions as well established as the principle itself. Thus says Sergeant Williams, 1 Saun. 207, a. note 2, where
the defendants sever -in their pleas, as where one pleads some plea
which goes to.his personal discharge, such as bankruptcy, ne unques
execiutor, and the like, andnot to the action of the writ, the plaintiff may enter a nolle prosequi against him, and proceed against the
others. In the Uited States ihe pririciple has been extended further. Thus, in New York, in the case of Hartness v. Thomson, 5
Johns. 160, an action was brought against three upon a joint and several promissory note, and there was a j6iht plea of non assumpsit,
and the infahney of one of the defendants was set up at the trial; it
-was held no ground for a nonsuit;, but the plaintiff, upon a verdict
found -in his favour against the other ta o defendants, might enter a
nolle prosequi as to the infant, and take judgment upon the verdict
against the others. So in Massachusetts, 1 Pickering, 500, upon'a
joint contrdct and suit against two persons, one of whom pleaded infancy, it was held that a nolle prosequi might be entered against the
infant, and the suit prosecuted against the other defendarrt.
And in this Court, in the case of Minors v. The Mechanics' Bank
of Alexandria, a suit was brought against Minors and four others,
his sureties, for the faithful discharge of his duties as cashier of the
bank; the principal pleaded separately, and after judgment was
given against the sureties on all their pleas, the pleas of the prin6ipal being, mutatis mutandis, the same as some of their pleas, the
plaintiffs were allowed to enter. a nolle prosequi against the principal;
and no ojection to the judgment appearing to have been made by

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

97

[United States v. Leffler.]

the sureties, such pro'ceeding was held to be not an error for which'
the judgment could be reversed.
The Court; in reasoning upon that case, admitted that in a joint'
and several bond, the plaintiff ought to sue either all jointly, or one
9everally. They said, however, that the objection was not fatal to
the merits, but was pleadable in abatement only; and if not so
pleaded, it was waived by pleading to the merits. They said, therefore, if the suit had be.en brought against the four sureties only, and
they had omitted to take the exception by plea in .abatement, th
judgment, in that case; would have been unjmpeachable. They then
inquired, whether the legal predicament of-the caSe was changed by
having sued all the parties, and subsequently entering a nolle prosequi against one of them? And if not in general, then, whether
there was any difference where the party in whose favour the
nolle prosequi was entered was not a surety, but a principal in the
bond? The Court, after an elaboraic examination of these questions,
both upon principle and authority, came to the conclusion, "That
where the defendants sever in their pleadings, a nolle prosequi ought
to be allowed. That it was a practice which violates no rule of
pleading, and will generally subserve the public convenience. That
in the administration of justice, matter of form, not absolutely subjected to authority, may wel" yield to the substantial .purposes of
justice."
In arriving at this conclusion, the Court cited with approbation
the two cases from New York and Massachusetts before referred to,
and remarked, that the plea went .not only -in personaldischirge,
as in the case of bankruptcy, and the other pleas, before cited- from
Sergeant Williams' note, but proceeded upon a matter which established an original defect in the joint contract. This case clearly
establishes these two propositions:
1st. That although in case of a joint contract, strictly speaking, the
plaintiff must sue all, or one, yet if he does sue any intermediate
number, and the defendants do not avail themselves of this, by plea,
in abatement, the objection is W.iived by pleading to the merits, and
is not one which can avail them upon writ of error; and the reason
d That the obwhich the Court gives; drawn from high authority, is,
ligation is still the deed of all the obligors, who are sued, though- not
solely their deed; and, therefore, there is no variance in point of
law, between the deed declared on, and that proved. It is still the joint
deed of the parties sued, although others have joined in it."
VOL. XI.-N

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Leffler.]

2d. Though the plaintiff should elect to bring a joint suit against
all the obligors,.if they sever in their pleas, and the bond be joint
and several, he may enter a nolle prosequ" against one of them, even
although his plea go to the action of the writ; it being the same with
that of the other defendants, and take judgment against the other defendants, which cannot be reversed on error, where no objection to the
judgment against them was made by those defendants at the time.
The case which we have been examining bears strong resemblance to
the one at bar.
In this case, as in that, the bond is several as well as joint; in this
case, as in that, an iction might have been maintained severally
against-the defendants; in this case, as in that, all the parties were
retained, who had joined in their pleas, and between whom, there
existed a right of mutual contribution. In this, as in that, the principal had pleaded separately from his sureties; finally, in this, as in
that, the principal was severed from the record, and ceased to be a
party. The cases differ only in this single particular, that in that case,
he ceased to bg a party, by the plaintiff's entering a nolle prosequi
against him; whereas in. this, he ceased to be a party, as we think,
by the judgment which was separately taken by the plaintiff against
him; which, in our opinion, under the facts of the case, severed him
from the record to all intents and purposes.
The plaintiffs' counsel relied, with great emphasis, upon the cases
of Taylor v. Beck, 3 Ran. 316, as being, as he contended, conclusive
in their bearing upon the case at bar. Let us examine them. They
were two actions on promissory notes negotiable at the bank,
against the drawer and indorsers jointly, brought in that form by
virtue of an act of assembly of Virginia. One of the defendants
pleaded separately, and the others jointly. The defendant who had
pleaded separately confessed a judgment; and at the trial, the other
defendants offered to introduce him as a witness on their behalf; and
the question was, whether he was not incompetent on account of interest? And it was decided that he was incompetent. Now, the
first remark to be made upon that case is, that there was no release
'by the co-defendants, as there was in the case at bar. The court,
however, thought, that as the action was joint, the plaintiff had a
right to a joint judgment against all, for his debt, and all his costs;
that the defendant who had confessed judgment, had no right to deprive him of this joint judgment, by having his cognovit actionern
entered finally, against the plaintiff'swill. whilst the cause was

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[United States v. Leffler.]"

depending on the pleas of the other defendants; they, therefore, considered him still a party to the record, and, consequently, an incompetent witness. The fact that the judgment in that. case was without the consent of the plaintiff,is mentioned not less than four or
fivw times by the judges, in giving their opinions. Thus in one
place it is said, that W. Woodford had no right to deprive the plaintiff of his joint judgment, by having his cognovit actionem entered
finally, against the plaintiff's will.
Again it is said, that the Court could not properly enter a final
judgment upon his confession, without the assent Qf the plaintiff,
until after the issues were tried as to the other defendants, &c,
Again, they say, it follows, that if either of the other defendants had
been discharged from the plaintiff's demand, in whole, or in part,
Woodford (the plaintiff having refused to take finaljudgment
on the confession at the time it was made) would have been entitled to avail himself thereof. In'page 336, of that case, one of the
judges holds this language: What effect had Woodford's confession
of the plaintiff's action upon the question of his competency to give
evidence for the other defendants? The plaintiffrefused to accept
his confession, and to takejvdgment thereon. It is not necessary
to inquire, whether a proper and unimpeachabl& judgment might
have been entered on this confession, separately, against Woodford,
if the plaintiff had desired it. On,- case has passed this Court, in
which such a separate judgment has been allowed, upon the agreement of the plaintiff and one defendant. and the cause proceeded in,
against the other defendant: but the cause was not considered upon
the point now under consideration. These several extracts show
that the Court, although they did not in that case decide the point,
yet laid great stress upon the fact that the judgment was against
the consent o? the plaintiff; and indeed that one case- had passed
the Court, where a judgment with his consent was allowed, though
it passed sub silentio. It would seem then, that it is not at all certain but that the Court, if that fact had been in the case, would have
considered the judgment, in '.he language of one of the judges, to,
be unimpeachable; especially when we find them asserting, that
it was the right of the plaintiff to have a joint judgment, but it
is competent to a party to waive that right, as-he may all others; and
nothing can be a more conclusive waiver, than to take a separate
judgment, of his own will, against one of the defendants. But it is
unnecessary to inquire, whether, if judgment had been' rendered

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Leffler.]

against the defendants, Jacob and Isaac Leffier, in this cas%
1 they could
have reversed it upon a writ of error, notwithstanding the plaintiffs had, by their own consent, taken a separate judgment against
their principal Salathiel Curtis. Howsoever that may be, we are of
opinion, that there is no ground on which these plaintiffs in error
can reverse the judgment against them. They themselves have
taken with their own consent, a separate judgment against Curtis;
upon that judgment they issued a ca. sa. by virtue of which his body
was taken; under the insolvent laws of the United States, he was
discharged from imprisonment; those laws declare, that the judgment
,shall remg.in good and sufficient in law, and may be satisfied out of
any property that he then had, or might thereafter acquire; and the
judgment under which all this has been done was rendered some ten
or. eleven years before the witness wasexamined. Let it be conceded. for the purpose of this part of the argument, that the judgmaent was ever so erroneous, can. it be reversed? We think clearly
that it cannot; and this for many reasons-i. It was taken by the
plaintiffs themselves, with their own assent; 2. They have carried
it into execution, and as far as they could, reaped its fruits; 3. The
period within which a writ of error could be sued out, has been
twice barred by lapse of time; 4. By the very terms of thd law
under which Curtis was discharged from imprisonment, the judgment is declared to remain in force, and that the plaintiffs have a
right to satisfaction of it out of his property; 5. Curtis himself is
barred, not only by his availing himself of the-benefit of th insolvent
law, which declares the judgment to remain in force, but also, by
lapse of time, from reversing it, if he ever could have done so. We
think, therefore, that he is as completely severed from this record,
and has as entirely ceased to be a party, as if he had never been
sued. Let us for a moment trace the consequences of considering
him as yet a party upon the record. If this were so, then it would
follow, that another judgment might be obtained against him; but we
have seen, that there is already one against him, unreversed and irreversible; if tihen another could be obtained, we should have an
anomaly, never before heard of in the law; that is to say, that there
should be two subsisting judgments, in full force, at the same time,
in favour of the same plaintiffs, against the same defendants, founded
on the same original cause of action, and on both of which he would
be liable to execution. This cannot be. If there be any one principle of law settled beyond all question, it is this, that whensoever a

JANUARY TFEAR

,

837.

101

[United States v. Lefflef.]

cause of action in the language of the law, transit in rem judicatam,
and the judgment thereupon remains in full foree unreversed, the
original cause of action is merged and gone forever.
We have anticipated the last objection in our previous reasoning,
by showing that the fact fails, because the witness is severed from
the record, and is not a party.
On the whole view of the case, we think that the witness was
competent; that therefore the judgment of the circuit court was correct, and must be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of
Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is ordered and adjudged by this Courti that the judgment of 'the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed.

