JANUARY TERM, 1837.

CHARLES M'MICKEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. AIos W
SMITH, AND IRA SMITH, DEFENDANTS.

BB, AARON

M'Micken and Ficklin were in partnership, as merchants, in the state of Louisiana;
and at the dissolution of the connection, Ficklin agreed to purchase the half of the
stock belonging to M'Micken; and after the partnership was dissolved, gave him,
in payment for the same, a promissory note, payable, after its date, to the order of
M'Micken and Ficklin, which was executed by Ficklin, Jededialh Smith, and Amos
Webb, by which they promised, jointly and severally, to pay the amount of the
note. Although th note was made payable to the order of M'Mickcn and Ficklin,
the latter was in no wise interested in it, as the payee thereof. M'Micken is a citizen of Ohio, and the drawers of the note were citizens of the state of Louisiana. Amos Webb resided in the western district qf Louisiana, but whenithe process in this suit was served upon him lie was in New Orleans, in the eastern district. The defendant, Webb, denied the jurisdiction of the district court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, alleging that he was a citizen
of the western district. The defendants pleaded in abatement; and to tie jurisdiction, that the suit should have been brought in the name of both the payees,
and at the time it was given, Ficklin was a citizen of Louisiana; this suit could
not, therefore, be brought in the district court of the United States.
'lie residence of a party in another district of a state than that in which the suit is
brought in a court of the United States, does not exempt him from the jurisdiction
of the court. The division of a state into two or more districts, cannot affect the
jurisdiction of the court on account of citizenship. If a party is found in the district in which he is sued, the case is out of the prohibition of the judiciary act,
which declares that "no civil suit shall be brought in the courts of the tNited
States, against a defendant, by any original process, in any other district th,,u that
whereof lieis an inhabitant, or in which lie shall be found at the time of serving
the writ."
The objection to the jurisdiction of the court,-on the ground that the note was given
to Ficklin and M'Micken, and as Ficklin was a citizen of Louisiana, the suit is interdicted by the prohibition of the judiciary act, which declares that the courts of the
United States shall not have cognisance of a suit in fivour of an assignee of
a chose in action, unless a suit could have been prosecuted in said court, foithe
same, if'no assignment had been made, except in eases of foreign bills of exchange;
cannot be sustained. Ficklin never had any interest, as payee, in time note.
Although the note had been given in the names of both persons, it wias for the sole
nd individual benefit of M'Mickcn, and there was no interest which Ficklin
could assign.

IN error to the dist'ict court for the eastern district of Louisiana.

The plaintiff in error filed his petition in the court below, avcrring
that le was a citizen of and rcsident of the state of 0hio, claiming
VoL. XI.-D

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Micken v. Wcbb.]

that the defendant, Amos Webb, who was also averred to be a citizen
and tesident of the state of Louisiana, with Mary Ann Smith, in her
t6vn capacity, and also as tutrix to Catharine Smith and Sarah Smith,
minor children, and heirs of Jedcediah Smith, who is now deceased,
and whom the said Mary Ann, as his widow, now survives, having,
since his death, intermarried with Ira Smith, who is, therefore, the
tutor of said children, all of whom, also, are citizens of and resident
in the state. pf Louisiana, were jointly and severally indebted to the
plaintiff;-i the sum of 4,866 dollars 93, cents, besides interest and
costs. "The plaintiff averred that said indebtedness depended upon
the following facts:In 1815" the petitioner, the plaintiff, and one James H. Ficklin,
formed a copartnership, and did business in the parish of Feliciana,
in the state of Louisiana, under the name of M'Micken & Ficklin;
that on or about the 8th of September, 1817, the partnership was
dissolved by mutual consent; and the stock of merchandise then on
hand the said Ficklin agreed to take to his own accolint, and to pay
for one-half of the same to the petitioner, at the original cost, with
the addition of five per centum ; to conclude which agreement, the
said Ficklin thereupon executed the note of which the following is
a copy:
6 9,:321.
Sr. FRANCISVILLr, Sept. 20, 1817.
"On the 1st (lay of March, 1819, we, or either of us, promise to
pay, jointly or separately, unto M'Micken & Ficklin, or order, four
thousand eight hundred and sixty-six dollars ninety-three and onehalf cents, being for value received, with ten per cent. interest, after
due, until paid.
(Signed)
JAMES H. FICKLIN,
JED. SMITH,
AMOS WEBB."
".4,86

The petitioncr then avers that the note was made payable to
MN'Micken & Ficklin; that it wvas in fact, and intended so to be for
his (petitioner's) portion of said partnership property, the same
haying been made after said firm had been dissolved; the joint name
being used merely for the-petitioner's sole benefit, the said Ficklin
being in no wise a party thereto, except as one of the obligors.
The petitioner further avers that said Mary Ann Smith, and her
two said minor children, (Catharine and Sarah) now own and possess

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[M'Micken

27

T, Webb.]

all the propeity and estate of said Jedediah Smith; the said Catha-

rine in right of her community, and the said children as heirs, and
by reason of which they have become obligated, in elido, to piy to
the petitioner the amount of the note aforesaid.
A citation was prayed for in the usual form. Service was legally
made, and, on the I1th of February, 1835, Webb,'one of the defendants, appeared, by his attorney, and filed three pleas to thejurisdiction of the court. The other defendants, Mary Ann Smith and her
children (Catharine and Sarah) aippeared on the same day, by attorney, and filed two pleas to the jurisdiction. The pleas by all, the
defendants, with the exception of the first, are the same, and, they
'presented the same questions for consideration.
The first plea by Webb is, "That'while he admits he is a citizen
of the state oi Louisiana, and that he was in New Orleans when the
citation was served, he avers that he resides ibn the parish of St. Landry, in the western district of said Louisiana; wherefore he prays
judgment, and whether the court will take further cognisance of the
cause as regards him, or that the suit may be transferred to said
western district of Louisiana, at the cost of the petitioner."
The second plea) which is common to all the defendants, avers, that
as the note stated in the petition is made payable to M'Micken &
Ficklin-that, as the petitioner can only bring suit thereon by virtue
of sonme assignment thereof, and protesting that there is no such assignment, it does not appeati by aVerment in the petition, that said
M'Micken & Ficklin, comprising the payees of said note, could have
prosecuted their suit against the makers thereof in this court. To
these statements is added the general prayer that the court will not
take jurisdiction.
The third plea avers that it does not appear by the petition that
the payees, at the tifnge said note was made, could have prosecuted,
or that the inakers could have been prosecuted, in the district court.
Several other pleas appeared in the record, but they present matter in bar, and as they were not considered by the court below, they
are not stated.
In December, 1835, the cause came on for hearing, and the judgment of the court is thus recorded:
"The court having maturely considered the plea to the jurisdiction made in this case, now order' that the same be' sustained, and
that the plaintiff's petition be dismissed at his costs."

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Micken v. Webb.]

The.plaintiff prosecuted a writ of error to this Court.
The case was argued at the bar by Mr. Storer, for the plaintiff in
error; and the counsel -for the defendants, Mr. Eustis, submitted a
printed argument to the Court.
TMr. Storer, stated that the plaintiff insisted that the judgment of
the circuit court of Louisiana should be reversed.
As the opinion of the court is not clear in designating the particular plea which was sustained, it is necessary to examine them all.
None of them will furnish a legal ground for the judgment of thd
court below.
As to the residence of the defendant, Webb, in the western district, at the time he was served with process by the marshal of the
eastern district, it is not apprehended that the fact can change the
relation of the debtor, or take away the jurisdiction of the court.
The state of Louisiana is divided into two districts by the law of
1823. Laws U. S. vol. 7, 173. "1For the more convenient transaction of business," as is stated in the first section; there is no limiiation of jurisdiction; there is but one judge to preside over both
districts, and the same practioe obtains in each.
The limitation in theojudiciary act of 1789, c. 20, ยง 11, it is believed, is clear on this question. "If the defendant is an inhabitant
of, or is found in the district at the time process is served, the action
is sustainable."
As to the second pleawhich is set up by all the defendants, the plaintiff in error insists that, by the law of 1824, Laws U. S. vol. 7, 315,
regulating.the mode of practice "in the courts of the United States
for the district of Louisiana;" it is enacted that the mode of proceeding in civil causes tlierein, shall be conformable to the laws directing
the mode of practice in the district courts of that state. The mode of
procedure by petition is adopted from the state practice, and is, in fact,
a suit in chancery; a procedure derived from the civil law, and intended to avoid the technicalities of the ordinary pleadings in courts
of common law. It is immaterial, then, as to the objection of an assignment to transfer title, when, in equity, a parol transfer, for good
consideration, is equally as -valid as a written assignment. Besides,
a chancellor will reform a contract to suit the intentions of the parties.

7
JMA
TUARY

TERM, 1837.

29

[MIMicken v. Webb.]

The plea of the defendants adnmits all the allegations in the petition,
and they, it is insisted, make out a clear case of mistake.
If Ficklin had no interest, he need not have been made a party.
If he had, there was a necessity that the court shall have required
that he should be joined in the suit, before the final decree was rendered: when joined, it would then be the proper time to ascertain
whether he was subject to the jurisdiction or not. In no viewof he
case was there a necessity that Ficklin should be made plaintiff, provided the statements in the petition are true; and as such they must
now be regarded.
As Ficklin was not interested, nor could be made plaintiff on
any just principle, it is immaterial where his residence Was, or is.
AI'Micken, the petitioner, now resides in Ohio; and it was never
doubted but the original parties to a contract, might avail themselves
of any federal tribunal where their residence gave jurisdiction. That
jurisdiction does not depend upon the contract, but upon the legal
character of the parties. It is admitted that when a note is assigned,
the assignors must have had the ability to sue in the United States
court at the time of the transfer; and this decision was made'to pre-,
vent the transfer of notes in "fraudem legis;" to deny to the resident creditor, when he could not in his own name sue in the
circuit court, to use the name of another. Here, the plaintiff labours
under no such disability.
The third plea is similar to the second, and is answered by the
same argument which has been opposea to it. It-is broader, however, in one respect, as it includes the averment that the defendants,
the makers of the note, could not have been sued in the United
States court when the note was made, or when it was assigned. As
to a part of this matter, the objection is destroyed by the fact that
the place where the contract is made does not fix jurisdiction_: and
as to the other, the force of the plea is not perceived. If the note in
its origin acquired no localityj, certainly a subsequent transfer could
not give it an exclusive "situs;" besides, as it is contended, no assignment is set up, for none was necessary..
Mr. Eustace, for the"defendant, submitted the following points:
1. The plaintiff does not make such allegations as to give the United
States courts jurisdiction of the case; and this is pointed out by the
exception of the defendants in plea to the jurisdiction.

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Micken v. Webb.]

2. In a suit against the drawers of a promissory note, on the law
side of the United States court, under the act of 178.9, ยง 11, all the
payees must join and allege the facts necessary to give jurisdibtion.
3. In all obligations not under seal, in a suit between original parties, when the plaintiff in his own declaration or petition, shows all the
defendants to 'be naked sureties, there are no equities against them,
either for jurisdiction, form of action, or on the merits.
This is a suit on a promissory note, in the following words
$4,866 931.

St. Francisville,Sept. 2, 1817.
On the first day of March, 1819, we, or either of us, promise to
pay, jointly or separately, unto M'Micken & Ficklin, or order, four
thousand eight hundred and sixty-six dollars, ninety-three and onehalf cents, being for value received, with ten per cent. interest, after
due, until paid.
(Signed)
JAMES H. FICKLIN,
JED. SMITH,
AMOS WEBB.
It is a promissory note, payable to order, and therefore completely
within the act of September 24, 1789, sec. 11, which is as follows:
"Nor shall any district or circuit court have cognisance of any suit
to recover the contents of any promissory note, or other chose in
action, in favour of any assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents, if no assignment
had been made; except in cases of foreign bills of exchange." 1
Story's Laws of the U. S.57. Sergeant's Con. Law, 116.
It is to be observed, that the suit on this promissory note is
brought by M'Micken alone, although 'the note is payable to
At' Z iicken 4"Ficklin. No endorsement or assignment is alleged
to have been made by M'Micken & Ficklin, but the following allegation is made:
"Your petitioner further shows, that said obligation was erroneously made payable to M'Micken & Ficklin, though in truth
and in fact said note was dated and executed subsequently to the said
dissolution-of said firm, and was made towards and in behalf and for
the sole and individual benefit of your petitioner; the joint name of
the then late firm being used and intended for your petitioner's sole
benefit, and Ficklin being in no wise a party, or interested therein,
except as bne of the obligors."

XANUARY TERM, 1837.

31

[M'Micken v. Webb.]

If any thing can be gathered from this singular allegation, it is
that a note intended to be drawn in favour of Charles M'Micken,
and who alone was entitled to receive the contents, was by mistake
and error drawn in favour of M'Micken & Ficklin, who, according to previous allegations of the petition,.had been in partnership
together. This allegation, if it amounts to any thing, amounts to an
allegation that M'Micken is the equitable assignee of the note.
The claim of the plaintiff, according to the colour and tenor of his
own petition, if on his own showing it can be maintained at all,
either as to the jurisdiction, or the, merits, ought to have been prosecuted on the equity side of the court; and it is obvious that the attor-ney for the plaintiff: was at a loss how to state his case.
He alleges.error without showing why it was an error. The considerationof the note moved from MMicken 4- Ficklin to Ficlclim
it being alleged that Ficklin, one of the partners, purchased the
goods of M'Micken & Ficklin-unless, therefore, the goods all lfelong
to M'Micken, or unless the note was given for M'Micken's one-half
of the goods, neither of which allegations are made, the note was
properly drawn in favour of M'Micken & Ficklin.
Legally speaking, the plaintiff's case cannot have the benefit of
the supposition that he is an equitable assignee, for his suit is
brought on the law side of the court. There is nothing in the shape,
form, address, prayer or proceedings, which give it the character of
a bill in equity; and from the decision against him, the plaintiff has
taken a writ of error, not an appeal; although in relation to the distinctions of law and equity, proceedings in the courts of Louisiana
are of an anomalous character, and are mixed up together without
any line of distinction, a party who goes into the United States court
in that state, must clearly announce his intentioi when he seeks to
avail himself of the equity powers of the court, in contradistinction to its legal jurisdiction.
The case was decided by the district judge, on the mere question
of jurisdiction on the third plea or exception to the jurisdiction, as
contained in the printed record.
This plea proceeds on the principle that when a suit is brought in
the United States courts on a promissory note payable to order,
against the drawers, it must-be brought either
1st. By the payees, and then there must be the usual allegations
of citizenship to give jurisdiction; or

2d. By an assignee or endorsee of the payee, and in this case, be-

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Micken v.Webb.]

sides the usual allegations of citizenship, there must be an allegation
that the payee, at the time of assignment, could have prosecuted the
suit in the United States courts, if no assignment had been made.
3d. That the suit in the present case is not brought by the payees,
and does not contain the allegations necessary to give jurisdiction.
The second rule or principle is laid down in Sergeant, 117, in
these words: "And if the plaintiff claim as assignee, it must appear
by the record that the person under whom he claims by assignment,
might have prosecuted his suit in the circuit court; otherwise the
court has no jurisdiction." Sergeant cites Turner v. The Bank, 4
Dall. 8. Montalet v. Murray, 5 Cranch, 46.
The necessity of the allegation that the payees were non-citizens,
or could have brought the suit at the time of the assignment, is recognised in Kirkman v. Hamilton, 6 Peters, 20; the principle is
directly deduced from the doctrine of the limited jurisdiction of the
United States courts: "The decisions of this court require that the
averment of jurisdiction shall be positiyv, that the declaration shall
state expressly the fact on which the jurisdiction depends. It is
not sufficient that jurisdiction may be inferred argumentatively from
its averments;" Brown v. Keene, 8 Peters, 112.
The right to the jurisdiction must rest on clear, plain and simple
averments, on which a single and simple issue can be joined. If it
be allowed to rest on errorin the form of taking the note, it would
require a chancery suit and a full investigation of the merits of the
case, before it could be settled whether the court had or had not
jurisdiction. This Court has decided that the question of jurisdiction, when contested, must be settled by a preliminary trial, and
before -goinginto the merits of the case.
In this petition there is no substantive allegation of an assignment
of the note sued upon, or if the matters alleged amount to such an
allegation, there is no allegation when the assignment was made, or
that at the time the assignment was made the payees could have
brought suit on this note in the United States court.
M'Micken is not the payee of the note-He brings the suit for
his own exclusive benefit; the payees are M'Micken & Ficklin-if,
therefore, M'Micken individually can bring suit on the note for his
own benefit, it must be invirtue of some legal or equitable assignment from the payees.
None such is alleged, and if the matter alleged be considered as
amounting to'an allegation that in equity, M'Micken is entitled to an

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[M'Micken v. Webb.]

assignment of this note from M'Micken & Ficklin; and that is the
most favourable aspect of the case: still there is no allegation that at
the time that assignment ought to have' taken place, M'Micken &
Ficklin could have prosecuted this suit in the United States courts.
Equitable as well as legal assignments are included in the 'ct.
Serg. 116, cites Sere et al. v. Pitot, 6 Cranch, 332.
The Court will disregard the vain attempt to combine an action at
law on a promissory note, with a suit in equity to reform a written
contract for alleged error. When practitioners come into the United
States courts in Louisiana, they are bound to recognise the clear
and manifest distinctions between legal and equitable rights and remedies.
The Court can only consider this suit to be what in its form, &c.
it purports to be, viz: an action at law on a promissory note payable
to order, against the drawers, brought by a plaintiff claiming in other
rights and interests than as payee of the note.
It is believed that if this case had been put in the form of a suit by
M'Micken & Ficklin as plaintiffs, for the use of Charles MI'Micken,
a form used in some of the states, this form of action would have
been considered as substantially an allegation of an assignment by
M'Micken & Ficklin to Charles M'Micken; and the suit could not
be maintained without the required averments. Or if M'Micken
& Ficklin were alleged to be trustees for Charles M'Micken, it
must have been alleged that both of them were citizens of other
states than Louisiana.
It may be asserted, without fear of contradiction, as a judicial
question, that there are no such- distinct and substantive averments
of facts necessary to give jurisdiction upon which any issue can be
joined. The Court will perceive the difficulty the attorney of the
defendant was under in drawing a plea to the jurisdiction. The petition is an hermaphrodite, neither properly a proceeding at law or
in equity; and cannot scientifically be encountered by any known
shape or form of defence. It is substantially met by the objection
that it does not contain averments and allegations of facts to. give
jurisdiction to the United States court in a suit on a promissory
note.
It is respectfully urged that the course ot reasoning and construction of the law on subjects connected with the jurisdiction of the
Court, has heretofore been rigorous, and that this course ought not to
be relaxed.
VOL. XI.-E

SUPRkEME COURT,
[X'Micken v. Webb.]

If suggestions like the one in the present case are admitted as the
basis ofjuri~diction, and the maxim, eat bonijudicis a2npliarejurisdictionem, be acted upon, there is danger that fictions similar to the
ac etiarn and quo mznus clauses, which gave universal jurisdiction
to the king's bench, and exchequer courts, will be resorted to: and
the United States courts will cover the whole field of litigation, without any real limits to their jurisdiction, and that the whole distinction of federal and state governments and jurisdiction will disappear;
a result which is not considered desirable.
It is to be observed that this subject and case are governed by a
special and positive act of congress, from which the inferences of
the allegations necessary to give jurisdiction are clear and precise;
and the Court will not be disposed. to get round them for the benefit
of this very singular case. It is called singular, and so it appears
on the statement of the plaintiff himself.
According to that statement, (by protestation as to its being the
whole truth) Charles M'Micken and James H. Ficklin were in partnership as merchants-they dissolved, and Ficklin takes the goods
at a stipulated price-for the price Ficklin gives the promissory
note, the subject of the suit, with Smith and Webb as sureties, obigors in solido-thatpromissory note is drawn in favour of M'Micken
& Ficklin; and M'Micken now says that this was done in error, and
that the not( ought, to have been drawn in his favour individually.
He does not attempt to show why it was an error-on the contrary,
if, as is alleged, the goods belonged to M'Micken & Ficklin, the representative or price was properly made payable to the partnership;
for each partner owned one-half of the goods, and was entitled to
one-half of the price.
Had it been alleged that this note was given for the one-half of
the goods which belonged to M'Micken, and was by error made
payable ta M'Micken & Ficklin, instead of M'Micken, a reason
enuld have been given why it was an error to make it payable as it
was drawn-there would have been aF.pimafacie case of equity to
entitle M'Micken to the jurisdiction of the equity side of the courtthough it is believed that even with such allegations the right, to
th- jurisdiction should be maintained, for it involves too complicated a preliminary investigation-and as to Webb and Smith, naked
iureties, there are no equities.
But no such allegation is made. The allegations go to show that
the goods belonged to the partnership, an- of course the note for

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[M'Micken v. Webb.]

their price did also belong to the partnership. - This transaction, it is
alleged, took place on the dissolution, and as a part .of the dissolution; and -it is strange to allege error without showing in what
iespect, and for what reason it was an error.
Smith and Webb are mere sureties, as is shown by the following
considerations. 1st. This contraqt is a promissory note, a simple
contract, and not a sealed one. 2d. The suit is between original
parties to the note. Therefore, the considerations of the note may
be inquired into.
. Again, the .plaintiff himself alleges that the consideration of the
note was the sale of goods by M'Micken & Ficklin to James H.
Ficklin. This affirmative is pregnant with another affirmative; for
it follows as a necessary consequence from 'this allegatiofi that Ficklin was principal in the note, and Smith and Webb were mere sureties.
The Court may think this controversy inv6lved in a cloud, and
feel disposed to favour a further development of it, or consider the,
objection to the jurisdiction as captious, and might feel more at ease
in deciding, if any supposable explanation of the transaction were
given.
We will then suppose M'Micken and Ficklin to be in partnership
-they agree to dissolve-Ficklin buys the stock of goods, of which,
as partner, he is one-half owner, and which is estimated at 9,733
dollars 87! cents, viz: twice the amount of the note; for M'Micken's one-half, Ficklin pays cash. Ficklin is himself the owner of
the other half; M'Micken is the liquidating partner, and undertakes
to collect the debts due to, and pay the debts due by the late firm;
but M'Micken suggests that the debts due to the firm might not
be sufficient to pay the debts due by the firm. In such case Ficklin would have to bring back what he took out. To meet this
possible contingency, Ficklin makes his note, with sureties, for
the amount of his own one-half 6f the goods, in favour of the partnership, payable at an interval within which it ias supposed the
partnership affairs would be liquidated and settled, and places it in
the hands of the liquidating partner.
Such a solution explains the whole transaction, without supposing
any er,'or in any party; and the decease of Ficklin, immediately afterwards, would explain the attempt and perseverance of M'IMicken
in desiring to extract this money from the sureties, without showing
any settlement of the partnership affairs.

36

SUPREME COURT.
[DPMicken v. Webb.]

It will be observed, this is a very stale transaction; not that
M'Micken has slept on his supposed rignts, (for this is the tenth suit
brought on this identical note: see for one of them, Walker v.
M'Micken, 9 Martin's Reports, 192,) but that he has never dared
fairly to bring his case before a court of justice, and has, therefore,
uniformly been driven out of court, or has discontinued the moment
a decision was about to be made.
The citizens of Louisiana hold their property and enter into contracts under the doctrines and rules of the civil law; and prefer
having them passed upon by their domestic tribunals. If the plaintiff could, in any manner, have made such allegations as would have
entitled him to the jurisdiction of the United States court, it was
open to him, after the exception was filed, to have made such amendments to his petition, consistent with the facts of the case, as would
have entitled him to the benefit of that jurisdiction. His not having
done so is conclusive that he can make no better statement of his
case, in that respect, than is now on file. That Ficklin is dead, is a
fact not alleged, is not judicially known to the court; nor if it were
alleged, would it avail, for there is no survivorship of action, even
among commercial partners, by the laws of Louisiana. Crosier v.
Hodge, 3 Lou. Rep. 358. M'Micken cannot, therefore, sue for this
note as surviving payee. He claims the contents in his individual
and private capacity.
The conclusion is, that for the reasons, and on the authorities before cited, the plaintiff, who sues the defendants as drawers of a promissory note payable to order, and who is not himself the payee of
that note, and does not claim in that capacity, has not made such allegations and averments, and in such form and manner, as to show
himself entitled to bring the suit in the court of the United States.
If this conclusion is correct, the judgment of the court below will
be confirmed.
Mr. Justice Thmopso-N delivered the opinion of the Court:
This case comes before this court 'n a writ of error from the district court of the United States, in and for the eastern district of the
state of Louisiana.
The suit in the court below was commenced by petition, in which
the cause of action is set out informally, but substantially, as follows.
That the defendants are jointly and severally indebted to the plaintiff

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[M'Micken v. Webb.]

in the sum of $4866.93, besides interest and costs. For this, to
wit: that some time in the year 1815, the petitioner and one James
H. Ficklin formed a co-partnership and did business in the parish of
Feliciana in the state of Louisiana; under the name and firm of
M'Micken & Ficklin; that on or about the 8th day of September, 1817,
said partnership was dissolved by mutual consent. That at the time
of such dissolution there was a quantity or stock of goods on hand,
which Ficklin took and purchased at cost with five per cent. addition,
and for the payment of one-half of said stock of goods, he gave to the
petitioner, a promissory note, dated the 20th of September, 1817, and
payable on the 1st of March, 1819, to the order of M'Micken &
Fickli, for the sum of $4866.9"3, which note was executed by said
Ficklin, Jedediah Smith (by the name of Jed. Smith) and Amos
Webb, by which they promised jointly 'and severally to pay the.
aforesaid sum, according to the terms of said note, a copy of which is
annexed to the petition. The petition avers, that the note was made
and dated subsequent to the dissolution of the partnership, and
although" made payable to M'Micken & Ficklin, it was made for the
sole benefit of the petitioner M'Micken, and that Ficklin was in no
wise interested therein except as one of the obligors. The petition
then sets out the death of Jedediah Smith, and here the other defendants become bound to pay the note. It also contains an averment
that the petitioner is a citizen of the state of Ohio, and that the defendants are citizens of the state of Louisiana.
To this petition several pleas to the jurisdiction of the court are
interposed. The defendant Webb, in one of his pleas, admits, that
he is a citizen of Louisiana, and that he was in New Orleans when
the petition and citation were served upon him; but avers, that he
resides in the parish of St. Landry, in the western district of Louisiana, and denies the jurisdiction of the court on this ground.
The second plea in abatement is founded on the fact which is set
out in the petition, that the note in question is made payable to
M'Mickcen & Ficklin, and the suit is in the name of M'Micken
alone, without showing any assignment by Ficklin, or that at the
time of making said note, MI'Micken & Ficklin could have prosecuted a suit upon it in this court.
The third plea alleges a want of jurisdiction in the court; because
the petitiot does not allege that at the time of assigning said note
the payees might have prosecuted the makers in this court.

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Micken v. Webb.]

The other defendants also interposed pleas to the jurisdiction of
the court, upon the grounds substantially as set forth in the two last
pleas of Amos Webb.
The court below sustained these pleas to the jurisdiction of the
court, and dismissed the petition.
This petition, although informal in many respects, must be considered as the commencement of a suit at law, according to the course
of proceedings in the courts of the state of Louisiana; and is properly brought up here by writ of error. The object of the petition
is simply to set forth the cause of action, and praying that the defendants may be cited in court to answer to the demand set up
against them; and all that is required in such petition according to the
practice in Louisiant is, that it should contain a clear and concise
statement of the object of the demand, or the cause of action upon
which it is founded.
The question presented by the first plea to the jurisdiction of the
court is whether Webb, a citizen of the state of Louisiana,. who
resided in the western district of that state, could be sued by a
plaintiff, who was a citizen of the state of Ohio, in the district court
of the eastern district of the state of Louisiana. The residence of
Webb being in the western district of Louisiana, could not affect the
jurisdiction of the court: The plea admits that he was a citizen of
Louisiana, and the act of congress gives jurisdiction where the suit
is between a citizen of the state where the suit is brought, and a
citizen of another state; and the division of a state into two or more
districts cannot affect the jurisdiction of the court on account of citizenship. This plea admits that the petition and citation were served
upon him in New Orleans, which takes the case out of the prohibition in the judiciary act, that no civil suit shall be brought in the
courts of the United States, against an inhabitant of the United
States, by any, original process, in any other district, than that
whereof he is'an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the
time of scrving the writ.
The second plea to the jurisdiction of the court is founded on the
assumption; that the plaintiff M Micken, is to be considered as the
assignee of M'IMicken & Ficklin of the note in question, and that
the petition does not allege that they could have prosecuted a suit
upon it in the courts of the United States; and that the case therefore
falls within the prohibition in the judiciary act: That no district or

JANUARY TERM, 1837.
[M'Micken v. Webb.]

circuit court shall have cognisance of any suit to recover the contents
of any promissory note, or other chose in action in favour of an
assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to
recover the said contents, if no assignment had been made; except in
cases of foreign bills of exchange. Laws U. S. 2 vol. 61.
But the cause of action, and the right of the plaintiff to sustain it
do not place him in the character of assignee. Ficklin never had
any interest whatever in the note, according to the allegations in the
petition; the partnership had been dissolved before the note in question was given. The consideration thereof was MI'Micken's share
of the stock and goods on hand at the time of the dissolution of the
partnership; and the petition avers, that although the note is given
in the name of the late firm of "I'Micken & Ficklin, it was for the
sole and individual benefit of the petitioner, and that Ficklin was
in no wise a party or interested .therein, except as one of the obligors; there was therefore no interest which Ficklin could assign,
and the objection is one purely of form and of a mere technical character; which ought not to be noticed according to the course of proceejlings in the courts of Louisiana.. The facts set forth in the
petition may well be considered as an averment that the, note was
given to the petitioner, M'M1\icken, under the name and description
of AI'Micken & Ficklin. And this view of the case disposes of the
matter set up by the other defendants in their pleas to the jurisdiction
of the court, as well as of that which is set up in the third plea to
the jurisdiction of the court.
Therp are other pleas to the merits interposed, de bene esse, by all
the defendants, and which have not, of course, been in any manner
considered or disposed of by the court below, as the pleas to the
jurisdiction of the court were sustaiied, and the petition dismissed.
Nor does the record contain the necessary matter to enable this
Court to dispose of the case upon its merits; some of those. turning
upon questions of fact, the evidence to sustain which not all appearing upon the record; and the cause must therefore necessarily go
back for further proceedings on those pleas.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly reversed, and the
cause sent back for further proceedings.

This cause came on to .be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the eastern district of

40

SUPREME COURT.

[M'Micken v. Webb.]
Louisiana, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it
is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court that the judgment of
the said district court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed,
and that this cause be, and the same'is hercby remanded to the said
district court for the further proceedings to be had therein according
to law and justice, and in conformity to the opinion of this Court.

