JANUARY TERM, 1837.

JAMES

M'BRiDE,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. THE LESSEE

Oy

WILLIA-. HoEY.
Jurisdiction. The Supreme Court has no power under the twenty-fifth section of
the judiciary act of 1789, to revise the decree of a state court, when no question
was raised or decided in the state court upon the validity or construction of an
act of congress, nor upon the authority exercised under it, but on a state law
only.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the western district of the state
of Pennsylvania.
An action of ejectment was instituted by the lessee of William
Hoey against James M'Bride, the tenant of William Clarke, in the
common pleas of Mercer county, to recover a tract of land in that
county. The plaintiff obtained a verdict; and judgment on the same
was rendered by the court; and the case was carried by writ of error
to the supreme court of the western district of Pennsylvania, where
the judgment was affirmed.
To that court, as the highest court of law of the state, this writ of
error was prosecuted, under the provisions of the twenty-fifth section
of the judiciary act of September, 1789; theplaintiff in error claiming the exercise of the jurisdiction of this Court, on the allegation
that an act of congress has been misconstrued by the supreme court
of Pennsylvania.
The plaintiff in the ejectment, in the common pleas of Mercer
county, exhibited a regular title derived under the laws of the state
of Pennsylvania, subjecting unseated or unoccupied lands to sale for
taxes left unpaid by the owner of the land. These laws give to the
owners of such lands a right to redeem them within two years after
the sale; by payment or tender, to the county treasurer, of the taxes
for which the lands were sold, with twenty-five per.cent. in addition.
In the courts of Pennsylvania, construing the laws of that state, it
has been decided that no one but the owner of the land, or his agent
can be permitted to redeem lands so sold.
The defendant, in th6 ejectment, as the tenant of William
Clarke, alleged a redemption of the lands by a tender of the amount
of the taxes, with the addition of twenty-five per cent.; and claimed

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Bride v. Hoey.]

that William Clarke, who had made the tender, was the owner of
the land, -underthe following circumstances:
The same tract of land had, he alleged, been sold for taxes due to
the United States under the authority of the acts of congress laying
direct taxes, and had been purchased by Mr. Clarke at the sale made
under the afithority of these acts.
The defendant offered in evidence a deed, executed on the 3d of
July, 1821, by Theophilus T. Ware, designated collector of United
States direct taxes, said to be for the tract of land in controversy.
This deed was admitted, as prima facie evidence of the matters stated
in it. The plaintiff in the ejectment then proceeded to prove, and
did prove, that the tract of land alleged to be conveyed by the deed
had never been legally assessed for the United States direct taxes, and
that the assessments were void. This evidence completely invalidated the deed frori the United States collector to Mr. Clarke; and
this effect of the evidence was not controverted by the defendant.
He, however, contended, that being in possession, and having the
deed from the designated collector of the United States direct taxes,
he had such sufficient prima facie evidence of a title to the land, as
to authorize him to redeem the same from the tax sale made under
the lhws of Pennsylvania.
The court of common pleas instructed the jury that " the plaintiff,
William Hocy, having shown that he has purchased this tract of land
accordingto law, at a treasurer's sale, and the plaintiff haiing shown
that defendant's deed is illegal for want of authority in the United
States collector to make such sale, we instruct the jury, that the defendant has no right to interfere to defeat a regular and legal sale by
the treasurer of the -county to William Hoey. An invalid title,
cannot defeat a good, ldgat, and'valid title."
The counsel for defendant in error moved to dismiss the writ of
error, for a want of jui-isdiction in this Court to entertain the same.
The plaintiff in error had-submitted the following points for the
consideration of the Court!
1st. That, whatever be the intrinsic merits or defects of Mr.
Clarke's title, as. derived from the authority and laws of the United
States; and whether the officers of the United States had, in the detail
of their operations, preliminary to the collector's sale,srictly followed

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

169

[M'Bride v. Hoey.]

the directions of the. acts of congress or not; he had, prima facie, such
a title and interest, derived from the authority and laws of the United
States, as qualified him to be recognised by the county treasurer as
the person properly representing the proprietary interest in the land,
until the nullity of his title shoula have been judicially, ascertained
and adjudged, in some course of judicial procedure, directly drawing
the validity of his title in question: that so long as the only person
entitled to dispute his right, acquiesced in it, or forbore to set up any
adversary claim, he was entitled to be treated by all third persons as
the true owner: that, how defective soever his title--bs against the
original proprietor, he had nevertheless acquired an actual interest in
the property which he had a right to protect by discharging the taxes
imposed on it by the laws of the state; and further, that, though he
may have come into the title by wrong, yet being in, he was privy
in estate to the original proprietor, and so entitled, and perhaps legally or morally bound to protect the interests of both against forfeiture or alienation for legal defaults.
2. That in every view of his claim or title to the property, of the
incidental interests and rights appertaining to it, and of the relations
in which those interests and rights placed him to the county treasurer, the whole rested upon the construction and effect of statutes of
the United States, and upon the validity of an authority exercised
under the United States: all which matters are drawn in question in
the judgment pronounced by the supreme court of Pennsylvania, and
decided against the validity of such authority, and agains. the title,
right, and privilege claimed by the defendant in the original action
under such statutes and authority: therefore, such judgment may be
properly re-examined in this Court, under the authority of the 25th
section of the judiciary act aforesaid.
Mr. Peters and Mr. Pearson for the motion.
This is not a case for the jurisdiction of. this Court. The whole
question decided* in'the common pleas of I\ercer county, was one
which did not involve, in any manner, the construction of an act of
congress, or a. provision of the constitution of the United States.
The supreme court of Pennsylvania, in affirming the judgment of
the common pleas, did no more than had been done by the inferior
court.
The decision of the courts of Pennsylvania is, that the defendant in
the ejectment, the plaintiff in error in this Court, had no regular title
VOL. XI.-Y

SUPREME COURT.
[(M'Bride v. Hoey.]

which could interfere with the plaintiff's regular title, derived under
the laws of the state. The title of the defendant was a deed, which
he himself admitted to be invalid, lie relied only on the prima
facie operation of a void deed; shown to be void by testimony, and
acknowledged to be so by him. He asserted, that although such was
the charactef of the deed, it gave, him a right to redeem the land; and
because the court thought differently, the case is brought up to this
Court, on the ground that an act of-congress has been misconstrued.
In stating this claim of jurisdiction, its insufficiency is fully shown.
The only question before the courts of Pennsylvania was upon the
xight of William Clarke to redeem the land, holding an admitted void
deed. This was a question for the courts of Pennsylvania, and for
those courts only, between citizens of that state.
Had either of the parlies been citizens of another state, other questions might have been presented. The construction of the tax laws,
and as in the case of The Lessee of Wolcott v. Hept urn, in 10 Peters,
Rep. the construction would have been examined.
The principles which regulate this question of jurisdiction were
decided at.the last Court in Crowd v. Randal, 10 Peters, 386. In that
case the Court reviewed, at large, all the previous decisions of the
Court on questions of a similar character with this now for consideration.
The decision of this 'case, when before the supreme court of Pennsylvania, is reported in 2 Watts' Reports, 436. The construction of
an act of congress, as is fully shown by the report of that case, was
no where drawn in question. This is necessary to give jurisdiction
on a writ of error from this Court to a state court. It must appear
that an act of congress has been drawn in question, and has been
misconstrued. Until the case was brought into this Court, the plaintiff in error had not invoked the aid of any act of congress; nor had
he called on either the court of common pleas, or, the supreme
court of Pennsylvania, to give a construction to any such act. It
was treated as a Pennsylvania question, arising under the Pennsylvania tax statutes; and it was decided according to the decisions of
the Pennsylvania courts, on the construction of those laws.
Mr. Anthony opposed the motion. He contended, that the plaintiff in error derived his title under an act of congress. The tax
sale was made under a law of the United States. Having a prima
facie title by his deed, he had a right to redeem; and by the refusal

JANUARY TERM, 1837.

171

[M'Bride v. Hoey.]

,f the court to give this value to the deed, the United States law
was'violated, or set at nought. The object was to show, that with
this deed, and possession of the land, he should have been allowed
to redeem the land from the tax sale under which William Hoey
claimed. A mere possession of lands gives a right to redeem, 8
Cranch, 249; 7 Wheat. 59.

The courts of Pennsylvania having decided that the plaintiff in
error, having this deed, had not right to redeem, does not this present a question within the jurisdiction of this Court, holding under a
deed executed under a law of the United States? The construction
of this title under the law, comes into question; not whether the
plaintiff in error had a right to hold the land, but whether he had
not a right to redeem it. A person having a colour of title may
redeem. The effect of the deed was brought before the court; anct
this places the case within the rules of this Court as to the provisions
of the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789. Cited 1 Wheat. 304,
357; 6 Cranch, 286; 3 Wheat. 208; cited also 6 Smith's Laws of
Pennsylvania, 301.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes befoie the Court on a writ of error, directed to
the judges of the supreme court of Pennsylvania for the western
district.
The material facts in the case may be stated in a few words;
William Hoey, the defendant in error, brought an action of ejectment in the court of common pleas of Mercer county, for the land
in question; claiming under a deed from Aaron Hakney, treasurer
of the county, upon a sale made for taxes due on the said land to the
state of Pennsylvania. This deed is dated October 14, 1822. The
defendant offered in evidence a deed to him from Theophilus T.
Ware, collector of the United States direct taxes, for the 10th collection district of the state of Pennsylvania, dated July 3, 1821; and also
offered evidence, that on the 10th of June, 1824, he .had paid to the
treasurer of the county the taxes due on the land to the state, and
for which it had been sold, as above stated, in order to redeem it.
It appears from the exception, that the defendant admitted that the
sale made by the United States collector, was not warranted by the
act of congress, and that the deed was invalid. But although the
deed was inoperative, and did not convey the title to him, yet as he
was in possession.under this deed, claiming title, and the deed upon

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Bride v. Hoey.]

the face of it purported to convey the land to him; he insisted that
the deed, coupled with the possession under it, was sufficient evidence
of"title to authorize him to redeem the land, within the time F.nited
for redemption by the laws of'Pennsylvania, after a sale ior state
taxes; and that having paid the taxes within that time, the title of
the lessor under his deed was defeated.
The court of common pleas gave judgment in favour of the plaintiff; and the case being removed by writ of error to the supreme
court of Pennsylvania for the western district, the judgment of the
court of common pleas was there affirmed.
The statement of the case shows, that the question upon which
the case turned, and which was decided by the supreme court, depended entirely upon the laws of Pennsylvania; and not upon the
act"of congress. The question brought before the state court, and
there decided against the plaintiff in error, was this. Is a person in
possession of land in Pennsylvania, claiming title to it, under a deed,
which upon the face of it appears to be a good one, but which is
inoperative and invalid,' entitled to redeem the land after it has been
sold for taxes due to the state; so as to defeat the title of the purchaser under the state law? It is evident that such a question must
depend altogether upon the laws. of the state, and not upon any'law
of the United States. The exception states that the plaintiff in error
admitted that the sale and conveyance made by the United States
collector was not warranted by the act of congress, and that his deed
was invalid. No question was raised or decided by the court, upon
the validity or construction of the act of congress, nor upon the
authority exercised under it. The only question raised or decided
in the state court was the one above stated; and upon such a question,
depending altogether upon the state laws, this Court have no power
to revise the decision of the state court, in this f9rm of proceeding.
The writ of error must therefore be dismissed.

On consideration of the motion made in this cause yesterday, and
of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well in support of, as
against the motion; it is now here considered, ordered and.adjudged
by this Court, that this writ of error to the supreme court of Pennsylvania for the western district be, and the same is hereby dismissed for the want ofjurisdiction.

