OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHERIALIS COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.

No. 38. Argued April 30, 1896. - Decided April 12, 1897.

This court is bound by the decision of the Supreme Court of the State of
Washington, (in which it concurs,) that ยง 21 of the act of that State of
March 9, 1891, relating to the taxation of national banks in that State,
is to be read in connection with ยง 23 of the same act, and that when so
read they do not impose upon such banks a tax forbidden by Rev. Stat.
ยง 5219. National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, affirmed and
followed in this matter.
Money invested in corporations or in individual enterprises that carry on
the buiness of railroads, of manufacturing enterprises, mining investments and investments in mortgages, does not come into competition
with the business of national banks, and is therefore not within the
meaning of the provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 5219, forbidding state taxation
of its shares at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of citizens of the State.
Insurance stocks may be taxed on income instead of on value; and deposits
in savings banks and moneys belonging to charitable institutions may be
exempted without infringing the provisions of that section of the Revised
Statutes.
The allegations of the complaint do not show that any moneyed capital of
the bank of the character defined by the decisions of this court was
omitted or intended to be omitted by the assessor, and those allegations
are so general in these respects that they cannot be made the basis of
action.
THE First National Bank of the city of Aberdeen, State
of Washington, a banking corporation organized under the
national banking laws of the United States, filed its complaint in the Superior Court of the said State, for the county
of Chehalis, May 16, 1892, against the county of Chehalis and
J. M. Carter, as ex ofcio tax collector of the county, seeking
to enjoin the defendants from levying upon the safes, time
locks and other personal property of the complainant, for the
purpose of collecting a tax upon the shares of its capital stock.
The defendants demurred to the complaint, and the demurrer
having been sustained, and the complainant having refused to
amend its complaint, judgment was entered in the said court,

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

441

Statement of the Case.
September 13, 1892, in favor of the defendants. The complainant took the case upon writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State, where the judgment was affirmed. 6 Washington,
64. The complainant then sued out a writ of error bringing
the case here.
The essential allegations of the complaint were that the
capital stock of the bank consisted of 500 shares of $100
each; that all of the stock was paid up, and was owned in
part by citizens of the State of Washington resident therein,
and in part by citizens of the United States residing outside
of the State; that the assessor of the said county was charged,
under the provisions of an act of the legislature of the said
State, approved March 9, 1891, entitled "An act to provide
for the assessment and collection of taxes in the State of
Washington and declaring an emergency," with the duty of
preparing an assessment roll of all the property subject to
taxation in the said county, as owned and there subject
to taxation on April 1, 1891; that thereupon the assessor
proceeded to make out an assessment roll, wherein he listed
to the complainant, as owner thereof, all of its capital stock,
and, though informed by the complainant of the residence of
-each of the stockholders, and of the amount of stock held by
each of them on April 1, 1891, assessed the capital stock in
.3olido to the complainant as owner thereof, at a total valuation of $50,000; that upon the said assessment the defendant
Carter, as treasurer, was officially directed to collect from the
complainant a tax in the amount of $686.25; that the tax
not having been paid, the said defendant, as treasurer, on
March 1, 1892, declared the same delinquent, and added
thereto a certain sum by way of penalty for non-payment,
and a certain sum as interest, and was about to proceed to
collect the total amount, being $787.22, by levying upon the
safes, time locks and other property used- by the bank, and
that if he were permitted so t6 do the complainant would
suffer irreparable injury. That on April 1, 1891, there existed in the said county moneyed capital, other than that
invested in shares of stock of national banks and banking
business,- owned by citizens of the State resident in that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Parties.

county, and there invested in loans and securities owing by
other citizens of the State residing in the county, exceeding
the sum of $237,400; that there existed in the State moneyed capital owned by citizens of the State who were residents of other counties thereof (aside from the capital
invested in banks and banking business), -invested in loans
and securities owing by citizens of the State residing in
counties other than the county'aforesaid, exceeding the sum
of $14,000,000; that the total capitalization of national banks
located in the State was the sum of $7,000,000, and the total
capitalization of banks there located, incorporated under the
laws of the State, the sum of $4,000,000; that large amounts
of moneyed capital were invested in the State, by residents
thereof, in the stocks and bonds of insurance, wharf and gas
companies, which amounts, together with all the moneyed
capital above mentioned, made an aggregate of at least
$26,000,000; that these facts were well known to the several assessors and other taxing officers throughout. the State,
but that the moneyed capital referred to, other than the said
capital of the national and state banks, was purposely omitted
from assessment and taxation in pursuance of an agreement
entered into before April 1, 1891, between the assessors of
the several counties, based upon an opinion rendered by
the attorney general of the State, advising such omission.
That this omission necessarily operated as a discrimination
in favor of the other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of the State and against shares of stock of
the national banking corporations located within the State,
and necessarily resulted in the taxation of the shares of the
national banks at a greater rate than other moneyed capital
in the hands of the individual citizens of the State.
.Mr. James B. Howe for plaintiff in error. Mlfr. Eugene X.
Carr, Mr. ftarold Preston and Mr. J7. T. Cochran were on
his brief.
fr. James A. ITaight for defendants in error., Mr. W. .
Jones was on his brief.

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

443

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE SHIuAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is contended on behalf of the plaintiff in error that an
assessment and taxation of all the shares of the stock of a
national bank in solido to the bank direct, as owner thereof,
constitutes a tax upon the bank forbidden by section 5219 of
the Revised -Statutes of the United States.
The tax in question was assessed under section 21 of an
act of the legislature of the State of Washington, approved
March 9, 1891, Laws of Washington, 1891, pp. 280-289, in
the following terms:
"Every individual, firm, corporation or association of persons,
carrying on a general banking business in this State, whether
the same has been organized under the banking laws of this
State or the United States, or conducted under the style of
private bankers, shall be assessed and taxed in the county,
town, city or village where such bank or banking association
is located, and not elsewhere, in the following manner: Annually, at such times as provided for listing property for taxation, every such bank or banking association as contemplated
in this section shall, by its accounting officer, furnish the county
or city assessor a statement verified by oath giving the amount
of paid-up capital stock, the amount of surplus or reserved fund
and the amount of undivided profits of such bank or banking
association.
The aggregate amount of capital, surplus and
undivided profits shall be assessed and taxed as other like
property in the State is assessed and taxed: Pr,'ovided, At
the time of listing the capital stock, the amount and description of its legally authorized investments in real estate shall
be assessed and taxed as other real estate is assessed and
taxed under this act, and the assessor shall deduct the amount
of such investments in real estate from the aggregate armount
of such capital, surplus and undivided profits, and the remainder then taxed as above provided."
If this section stood alone-there might be ground for the
contention that it contemplates taxation of the capital of the
bank. But section 23 of the statute provides that "each bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and banking association shall be liable to pay any taxes assessed against them as the agent of each of its shareholders,
owners or owner under the provisions of this act, and may
pay the same out of their individual profit account or charge
the same to their expense account, or to the accounts of such
shareholders, owners or owner in proportion to their ownership."
The Supreme Court of Washington held in this
case that
these two sections are to be read together, and that, so read,
their provisions are not inconsistent with those of the Federal
statute.
That the two sections of the state law should be read together is obviously proper, and, at any rate, we are bound by
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State in the mere
matter of the construction of that law.
In holding that the state law, in the provisions under consideration, was not in contravention of the Federal statute,
the Supreme Court of Washington claimed to follow the case
of National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353; and we
agree with that court in thinking that the case referred to
is decisive of the contention now made. In that case it appeared that a statute of the State of Kentucky provided that
a tax should be laid on "the bank stock or stock in any moneyed corporation of loan or discount, fifty cents on each share
thereof equal to one hundred dollars, or on each one hundred
dollars of stock therein owned by individuals, corporations or
societies" ; and further provided that "the cashier of a bank,
whose stock is taxed, shall, on the first day of July in each
year, pay into the treasury the amount of tax due. If such
tax be not paid, the cashier and his sureties shall be liable for
the same and twenty per cent upon the amount."
It was claimed by the bank that the shares of the stock
were the property of the individual stockholders, and that
the bank could not be made responsible for a tax levied on
those shares, and could not be compelled to collect and pay
such tax to the State. In delivering the opinion of the court,
Mr. Justice Miller said :
"It is strongly urged that it is to be deemed a tax on the

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

445

Opinion of the Court.

capital of the bank, because the law requires the officers of
the bank to pay this tax on the shares of its stockholders.
Whether the State has the right to do this we will presently
consider, but the fact that it has attempted to do it does not
prove that the tax is anything else than a tax on these shares.
It has been the practice of many of the States for a long time
to require of its corporations thus to pay the tax levied on
their shareholders. It is the common, if not the only, mode
of doing this in all the New England States, and in several
of them the portion of this tax which should properly go as
the shareholder's contribution to local or municipal taxation
is thus collected by the State of the bank and paid over to
the local municipal authorities. In the case of shareholders
not residing in the State, it is the only mode in which the
State can reach their shares for taxation. We are, therefore,
of opinion that the law of Kentucky is a tax upon the shares
of the stockholder. . . . A very nice criticism of the proviso to the forty-first section of the National Bank Act" now section 5219 of the Revised Statutes -" which permits
the States to tax the shares of such bank, is made to us to
show that the tax must be collected of the shareholder directly,
and that the mode we have been considering is by implication
forbidden. But we are of opinion that while Congress intended to limit state, taxation to the shares of the bank as
distinguished from its capital, and to provide against a discrimination in taxing such bank shares unfavorable to them
as compared with the shares of other corporations, and with
other moneyed capital, it did not intend to prescribe to the
States the mode in which the tax should be collected. The
mode under consideration'is the one which Congress itself has
adopted in collecting its tax on dividends and on the income
arising from bonds of corporations. It is the only mode
which, certainly and without loss, secures the payment of
the tax on all the shares, resident or non-resident; and, as
we have already stated, it is the mode which experience has
justified in the New England States as the most convenient
and proper in regard to the numerous wealthy corporations
of those States. It is not to be readily inferred, therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that Congress intended to prohibit this mode of collecting a
tax which they expressly permitted the States to levy."
This case was followed in Bell's Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 134: U. S. 232, 239,. and Van Slyke v. Wisconsin, 154
U. S. 581; and its doctrine, that the statutory appointment of
the bank to pay the whole tax as agent of the stockholders,
is not inconsistent with the Federal law pertaining to national
banks, was correctly interpreted and applied by the state
court to the case in hand. It was not alleged in the bill, or
claimed on argument, that the bank was not in possession of
funds, belonging to the stockholders severally, sufficient to pay
the tax, proportioned to their ownership of the stock.
It is also contended that the Supreme Court of Washington
erred in not holding that the bill of complaint showed that
the taxation of the shares of capital stock of the plaintiff was
at a greater rate than was assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of the State of Washington, and was, therefore, void under section 5219 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States.
As the case was disposed of in the court below on a demurrer
to the bill, it is proper to have before us the very language of
the bill which presents this question, and which was as follows:
"That on the first day of April, 1891, there existed in the
county of Chehalis, State of Washington, taxable moneyed
capital (other than and beyond that invested in shares of stock
of national banks and banking business), owned by citizens of
said- State, resident in said county and there invested in loans
and securities to them payable, and owing by other citizens of
said State residing in said county, of vast amount, to wit, exceeding the sum of two hundred and thirty-seven thousand
four hundred dollars: That on said first day of April, 1891,
there existed in the State of Washington, in counties other
than the county of Chehalis aforesaid, other taxable capital
in money and moneyed capital (aside from the moneyed capital
referred to in the paragraph preceding, and aside from the
capital in banks and banking business), owned by citizens of
the State of Washington resident in said State (in counties
other than the county of Chehalis), and there invested in loans

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

447

Opinion of the Court.

and securities to them payable and owing by other resident
citizens of said State in counties other than the county of Chehalis, of vast amount, to wit, exceeding tile sum, as complainant is informed and believes, of fourteen million dollars: That
on the said first day of April, 1891, the total capitalization of
national banks located in the State of Washington was the
sum of seven million dollars ; that the total 6apitalization of
banks there located, but incorporated under the laws of the
State of Washington, was the sum of four million dollars; and
that at the same time large amounts of moneyed capital were
invested in the State of Washington by residents of said State
in the stocks and bonds of insurance, wharf and gas companies;
and in addition to the foregoing there then existed in said
State other moneyed capital amounting to at least twenty-six
million dollars, being the other moneyed capital hereinbefore
referred to; that in no case, as complainant is informed and
believes and so charges the fact to be, is the stock of any national bank or the shares of the stock of any national bank
located in the State of Washington valued for assessment for
taxation in said State at a less sum or assessed upon a value
of less than eighty-five per cent of the par value thereof ; and,
further, that the total assessment and total valuation in the
assessment for taxation throughout the State of Washington
for the year 1891 of and upon the bonds and shares of banks,
banking corporations, insurance, gas, wharf and other corporations, was the sum of eight million two hundred and five
thousand five hundred and three dollars.
"That the facts alleged in the preceding paragraphs thereof
were then and during all of tho times intervening between the
first day of April, 1891, and the time of the return of the several assessment rolls throughout the State of Washington by
the county assessors to the county auditors, well known to the
assessor of the county of Chehalis and all other county assessors throughout the State of Washington, and during all
of said times and until the first day of March, 1892, were well
known to the several county and state officers hereinbefore
referred to, and also to the boards of equalization and boards
of county commissioners and the auditor of each of the counties

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in said State, and since the first day of March, 1892, have
been and are now well known to the defendant, the treasurer
of Chehalis County: That on said first day of April, 1891, the
entire capital, surplus and undivided profits of complainant
were invested as follows, to wit: $12,500.00 bonds of the
United States, and the remainder in loans to residents of the
State of Washington, in furniture and fixtures; that all of said
other moneyed capital referred to in the foregoing paragraphs
was purposely omitted from the assessment and from taxation
whatsoever by each and every of the county assessors and other
taxing officers throughout the State of Washington, and the
same and the whole thereof has escaped taxation throughout
the State of, Washington; that the omission by the several
county assessors and taxing officers of the several counties in
said State to either assess or tax other moneyed property or
capital last aforesaid was made through, under and by reason
and in pursuance of an agreement entered into prior to the
first day of April, 1891, between the several county assessors'
of the several counties in said State, whereby it was agreed
upon between them that such omission should be made by
them and all of them; and said omission and agreement to
omit was in pursuance of an opinion rendered by the attorney
general of the State of Washington to the said several county
assessors at their request, advising such omission, the said attorney general being by virtue of his office required by the
laws of the State of Washington to render such opinion upon
the request of said assessors; that such. omission necessarily
operated as a discrimination in favor of other moneyed capital
in the hands of -individual citizens of said State and against
shares of stock of national banking corporations located within
this State, including complainant, and necessarily resulted in
taxation of the shares of such national banks, including coi.
plainant, at a greater rate than other moneyed capital in the
hands of the individual citizens of said State, all of which was
well known to and most wrongfully intended by said several
county assessors and taxing officers, and all of which is in direct
violation of and forbidden by the provisions of the Revised
Statutes hereinbefore specifically referred to."

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

449

Opinion of the Court.

It is claimed by the plaintiff in error that the withdrawal
from taxation of sv large a proportion of moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens, as is shown by these allegations, had the effect of taxing national bank shares at a
greater rate than the remaining moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens was taxed.
Before we consider the legal import of these statements in
the complaint, we shall briefly review some of the previous
decisions of this court in which similar questions have been
dealt with.
In Peoyple v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, the question presented was whether a tax imposed, under a law of the State
of New York, on shares of a national bank, was invalid, as
a discrimination against the shareholders, because no allowance or deduction was made on account of investments made
by the bank in United States bonds, whereas such a deduction
or allowance was made in assessments upon insurance coinpanies and individuals. The answer given by this court was
that upon a true construction of that clause of the act which
provided that taxation of such shares by state authority should
not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of such States, "the
meaning and intent.of the lawmakers were that the rate of
taxation of the shares should be the same, or not greater than
upon the moneyed capital of the individual citizen which is
subject or liable to taxation; that is, no greater proportion
or percentage of tax in the valuation of the shares should be
levied than upon other moneyed taxable capital in the hands
of the citizens." And it was said that "it is known as sound
policy that, in every well-regulated and enlightened State or
government, certain descriptions of property, and also certaia
institutions- such ds churches, hospitals, academies, cemeteries and the like-are exempt from taxation; but these
exemptions have never been regarded as disturbing the rates
of taxation, even where the fundamental law had ordered
that it should be uniform."
In Lionberger v. Rouse, 9 Wall. 468, a shareholder in the
Third National Bank of St. Louis resisted payment of a tax
VOL. CLXVI-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of nearly two per cent on his stock, imposed under a law of
the State of Missouri, because there were in that State two
banks which by a contract the State had, prior to the passage
of the national bank laws, disabled itself from taxing at a
greater rate than one per cent; and it was claimed that the
tax complained of was assessed in disregard of that provision
of the Federal statute which enacted "that the tax so inposed, under the laws of any State, upon the shares of any
of the associations authorized by this act, shall not exceed
the rate imposed upon the shares in any of .the banks organized under the authority of the State where such association
is located." Speaking through Mr. Justice Davis, this court
said:
"It is very clear that Congress, in conceding to the States
the right to tax, adopted a measure which it was supposed
would operate to restrain them from legislating adversely to
the interests of the national banks. The measure itself had
reference to prospective legislation by the States, and its
object was accomplished when the States conformed, as far
as practicable, their revenue systems to it. Exact conformity
was required, if attainable, but the law-making power did not
intend such an absurd thing, as that the power of the State
to tax -should depend on its doing an act, which it bad obliged
itself not to do. It was well known at the time, and Congress
must be supposed to have legislated on this subject with reference to it, that States, by contracts with individuals or corporations, could grant away the right of taxation, and that
this power had .been frequently exercised. It was equally
within the knowledge of Congress that the policy on this subject varied in different States; while some of them retained
in their own hands the power of taxation over all species of
property, except such as were devoted to religious or charitable purposes, others had parted with it to interests of a
purely business character, like banks and railroads. Can it
be supposed that Congress, in this condition of things in the
country, meant to confer a privilege by one section of a law
which by another it made practically unavailable? If the
construction contended for by the plaintiff in error be allowed,

ABERDEEN BANK v. CIEHALIS COUNTY.

451

Opinion of the Court.

then a State so unfortunate as to have a single bank, whose
shareholders are exempt by contract from taxation in the
manner provided by Congress, can derive no benefit from
the power to tax the shares of national banks. And this
further consequence would follow, that the shareholders of
national banks located in one State would escape all taxation,
while those whose property was invested in banks in a different locality would have to contribute their full share of the
public burdens. This court will not impute to Congress a
purpose that would lead to such manifest injustice, in the
absence of an express declaration to that effect. Without
pursuing the subject further, it is enough to say [that], in our
opinion, Congress meant no more by the limitation in the
national bank act, than to require of each State, as a condition to the exercise of the power to tax the shares in national
banks, that it should, as fat, as it had the capacity, tax in like
manner the shares of banks of issue of its own creation."
By a statute of Pennsylvania of March 31, 1870, all mortgages, judgments, recognizances and moneys owing upon
articles of agreement for the sale of real estate were made
exempt from taxation except for state purposes. The stock
of one Hepburn in the First National Bank of Carlisle, the
par value of which was one hundred dollars a share, was
subjected, at its market value of one hundred and fifty dollars
per share, to taxation for county, school and borough purposes.
The validity of such taxation was upheld by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, and the case was brought to this court.
It was contended on behalf of the shareholder that as, by the
Pennsylvania statute, other moneyed capital in the hands of
individuals in the county where the bank was located was not
subject to taxation for local purposes, such taxes upon shares
in a national bank were in the nature of a discrimination
and void. It was also contended that in valuing these
shares at fifty per cent above par the tax was made fifty per
cent greater than on "other moneyed capital in the hands of
individuals."
Both these contentions were overruled by this court; and,
in disposing of the argument that the taxes in question made

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

an ilgal discrimination against national bank shares, it was
said:
"It is next insisted that no municipal or school taxes could
be assessed upon the shares of the First National Bank of
Carlisle, located within the borough of Carlisle, . . . because by the laws of Pennsylvania, as is claimed, Other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens at that place
i3 exempt from such taxation. In support of this claim it is
shown that all mortgages, judgments, recognizances and
moneys owing upon articles of agreement for the sale of real
estate are exempt from taxation in that borough except for
state purposes. This is a partial exemption only. It was evidently intended to prevent a double burden by the taxation
both of property and debts secured upon it. Necessarily there
may be other moneyed capital in the locality than such as is excmpt. . . . Some part of it only is. It could not have been
the intention of Congress to exempt bank shares from taxation
because some moneyed capital was exempt. Certainly there
is no presumption in favor of such an intention. To have
effect it must be manifest. The affirmative of the proposition
rests upon him who asserts it. In this case it has not been
made to appear." Ilepburn v. School Directors,23 Wall. 480.
To the same effect was the case of Adams v. Nashville, 95
U. S. 19.
In People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, it was held that the statute of a State which establishes a mode of assessment by which
shares in a national bank are valued higher in proportion to
their real value than other moneyed capital is in conflict with
section 5219 of the Revised Statutes, although no greater percentage is levied on such valuation than on that of other
moneyed capital; and that the statutes of New York which
permit a party to deduct his just debts from the valuation, of
all his personal property, except so much thereof as consists of
such shares, tax them at a greater rate than other moneyed
capital, and were, therefore, void as to them.
In Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689, there was brought into
question the validity of a county tax levied on national bank
shares under a law of the State of Pennsylvania, where other

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

453

Opinion of the Court.

moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens within the
same taxing district was exempted from such taxation. The
previous decisions of the court respecting state taxation of
shares in national banks were reviewed, and the conclusion
reached was that those decisions did not sustain the proposition that national batik shares may be subjected, under the
authority of the State, to local taxation where a very material
part, relatively, of other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens is exempt. It was observed that "as the act
of Congress does not fix a definite limit as to percentage of
value, beyond which the States may not tax national bank
shares, cases will arise in which it will be difficult to determine whether the exemption of a particular part of moneyed
capital in individual hands is so serious or material as to infringe the rule of substantial equality."
That case, like the present one, was determined in the court
below on bill and demurrer, and this court thought the better
course was to remand the cause with a recommendation that
the defendants should be put to answer, so that the facts of
the case might be more fully disclosed.
In Bell's Gap Railroad v. 1ennlylvania,134 U. S. 232, 237,
a question was raised, in behalf of citizens of other States, of the
validity of a law of the State of Pennsylvania which imposed
a tax upon the nominal or face value of corporation bonds,
instead of a tax upon their actual value; and, while it was not
a case of taxation of national bank stock, some observations
were made by Mr. Justice Bradley, in expressing the views of
the court, that are applicable to the question before us:
"The provision in the Fourteenth Amendment, that no
State shall deny to any' person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws, was not intended to prevent a State
from adjusting its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable ways. It may, if it chooses, except certain- classes of
property from any taxation at all, such as churches, libraries
and the property of charitable institutions. It may impose
different specific taxes upon different trades and professions,
and may vary the rates of exercise upon various products; it
may tax real estate and personal property in a different man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

nor; it may tax visible property only, and not tax securities
for payment of money; it may allow deductions for indebtedness, or not allow them. All such regulations, and those of
like character, so long as they proceed within reasonable limits
and general usage, are within the discretion of the state legislature, or the people of the, State in framing their constitution.
But clear and hostile discriminations against particular persons
and classes, especially such as are of an unusual character, unknown to the practice of our governments, might be obnoxious
to the constitutional prohibition. It would, however, be impracticable and unwise to attempt to lay down any general
rule or definition on the subject, that would include all cases.
They must be decided as they arise. We think that we are
safe in saying that the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule of equal taxation. If that were its proper construction it would not only
supersede all those constitutional provisions and laws of some
of the States, whose object is to secure equality of taxation,
and which are usually accompanied with qualifications deemed
material; but it would render nugatory those discriminations
which the best interests of society require; which are necessary
for the encouragement of needed and useful industries, and the
discouragement of intemperance and vice; and which every
State, in one form or another, deems it expedient to adopt."
Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, was the case
of a bill filed by a national bank in the city of New York, the
object of which was to restrain the collection of taxes assessed
upon its stockholders on the ground that the taxes assessed
were illegal and void under section 5219 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, as being at a greater rate than those
assessed under the laws of New York upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of the individual citizens of that State.
From the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
dismissing the bill an appeal was prosecuted to this court.
The question presented was thus stated by Mr. Justice
AMatthews, who delivered the opinion of this court:
"The proposition which the appellant seeks to establish is
that the State of New York, in seeking to tax national bank

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

455

Opinion of the Court.

shares, has not complied with the condition contained in section
5219 of the Revised Statutes, that such taxation shall not be
at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of such State, 'in that it
has by its legislation expressly exempted from all taxes in the
hands of individual citizens numerous species of moneyed capita], aggregating in actual value the sum of $1,686,000,000,
whilst it has by its laws subjected national bank shares in the
hands of individual holders thereof (aggregating a par value
of $83,000,000) and state bank shares (having a like value of
$22,815,700) to taxation upon their full actual value, less only
a proportionate amount of real estate owned by the bank.'
This exemption, it is claimed, is of a ' very material part relatively' of the whole, and renders the taxation of national bank
shares ,void."
The exemptions referred to were classified as follows :Shares
of stock in the hands of the individual shareholders of all incorporated moneyed or stock corporations deriving an income or
profit from their capital or otherwise, incorporated by the laws
of New York, not including trust companies and life insurance
companies, and state or national banks-the value of such
shares was admitted to be $755,018,892; trust companies and
life insurance companies -the value of whose shares was admitted to be $35,558,900-in addition the life insurance companies owned personal property composed of mortgages, loans
and bonds to the amount of $195,257,305; savings banks and
the deposits therein amounting to $437,107,501, and a surplus
of $68,669,001; certain municipal bonds, issued by the city
of New York under an act passed in 1880, of the value of
$13,467,000; shares of stock in corporations created by States
other than New York, in the hands of individual holders, resident of said State, amounting to $250,000,000.
The contention on behalf of the national bank was that
within the doctrine of the case of Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S.
689, these exemptions constituted so material a part relatively
of the moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens as
to make the tax upon the shares of national banks an unfair
discrimination against that class of property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

On the part of the State it was claimed that the shares of
stock in the various companies incorporated by the laws of
New York as moneyed or stock corporations, deriving an income or profit from their capital or otherwise, including trust
companies, life insurance companies and savings banks, were
not .moneyed capital in the hands of the individual citizen
within the meaning of the act of Congress; that, if any of
them are, then the corporations themselves were taxed under
the laws of New York in such a manner and to such hn extent
that the shares of stock therein are in fact subject to a tax
equal to that which was assessed upon shares of national
banks; and that if there are any exceptions, they were immaterial in amount and based upon considerations which excluded them from the operation of the rule of relative taxation
intended by the act of Congress. Upon a careful review of
the cases the following conclusions were reached by the court:
"That ' moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens'
does not necessarily embrace shares of stock held by them in
aMt corporations whose capital is employed, according to their
respective corporate powers and privileges, in business carried
on for the pecuniary profit of shareholders, although shares
in some corporations, according to the nature of their business, may be such moneyed capital.

.

.

. The key to the

proper interpretation of the act of Congress is its policy and
purpose. The object of the law was to establish a system of
national banking institutions, in order to provide a uniform
and secure currency for the people, and to facilitate the operations of the Treasury of the United States. The capital of
each of the banks in this system was to be furnished entirely
by private individuals; but, for the protection of the government and the people, it was requfred that this capital, so
far as it was the security for its circulating notes, should be
invested in the bonds of the United States. These bonds
were not subjects of taxation; and neither the banks themselves, nor their capital, however invested, nor the shares of
stock therein held by individuals, could be taxed by the States
in which they were located without the consent of Congress,
being exempted from the power of the States in this respect,

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

457

Opinion of the Court.

because these banks were means and agencies established by
Congress in execution of the powers of the government of
the United States. It was deemed consistent, however, with
these national uses, and otherwise expedient, to grant to the
States the authority to tax them within the limits of a rule
prescribed by the law. In fixing those limits it became
necessary to prohibit the States from imposing such a burden
as would prevent the capital of individuals from freely seekin investment in institutions which it was the express object
of the law to establish and promote. The business of banking, including all the operations which distinguish it, might
be carried on under state laws, either by corporations or
private persons, and capital in the form of money might be
invested and employed by individual citizens in many single
and separate operations forming substantial parts of the
business of banking. A tax upon the money of individuals,
invested in the form of shares of stock in nati(.nal banks,
would diminish their value as an investment and drive the
capital so invested from this employment, if at the same
time similar investments and similar employments under the
authority of state laws were exempt from an equal burden.
The main purpose, therefore, of Congress in fixing limits
to state taxation, on investments in the shares of national
banks, was to render it impossible for the State, in levying
such a tax, to create and foster an unequal and unfriendly
competition, by favoring institutions or individuals carrying
on a similar business and operations and investments of a like
character. The language of the act of Congress is to be read
in the light of this policy. Applying this rule of construction, we are led, in the first place, to consider the meaning
of the words 'other moneyed capital,' as used in the statute.
Of course it includes shares in national banks; the use of
the word 'other' requires that. If bank shares were not
' moneyed capital,' the word ' other' in this connection would
be without significance. But 'moneyed capital' does not
mean all capital the value of which is measured in terms
of money. In this sense, all kinds of real and personal property would be embraced by it, for they all have an estimated

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

value as the subjects of sale. Neither does it necessarily
include all forms of investment in which the interest of the
owner is expressed in money. Shares of stock in railroad
companies, mining companies, manufacturing companies and
other corporations are represented by certificates showing
that the owner is entitled to an interest, expressed in money
value, in the entire capital and property of the corporation,
but the property of the corporation which constitutes its
invested capital may consist mainly of real and personal
property, which, in the hands of individuals, no one would
think of calling 'moneyed capital,' and its business may not
consist in any kind of dealing in money, or commercial representatives of money. So far as the policy of the government
in reference to national banks is concerned, it is indifferent bow
the States may choose to tax such corporations as those just
mentioned, or the interest of individuals in them, or whether
they should be taxed at all. Whether property interests in
railroads, in manufacturing enterprises, in mining investments
and others of that description arc taxed or exempt from taxation, in the contemplation of the law, would have no effect
upon the success of national banks. There is no reason, therefore, to suppose that Congress intended, in respect to these
matters, to interfere with the power and policy of the States.
The business of banking, as defined by law and custom, consists
in the issue of notes payable on demand, intended to circulate
as money where the banks are banks of issue; in receiving
deposits payable on demand; in discounting commercial
paper; making loans of money on collateral security; buying
and selling bills of exchange; negotiating loans, and dealing
in negotiable securities issued by the government, state and
national, and municipal and other 'corporations. These are
the operations in which the capital invested in national banks
is employed, and it is the nature of that employment which
constitutes it in the eye of this statute 'moneyed capital.'
Corporations and individuals carrying on these operations do
come into competition with the business of national banks,
and capital in the hands of individuals thus employed is what
is intended to be described by the act of Congress.

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

459

Opinion of the Court.

"That the words of the law must be so limited appears
from another consideration; they do not embrace any moneyed capital in the sense just defined, except that in the
hands of individual citizens. This excludes moneyed capital
in the hands of corporations, although the business of some
corporations may be such as to make the shares therein belonging to individuals moneyed capital in their hands, as in
the case of banks. A railroad company, a mining company,
an insurance company, or any other corporation of that description, may have a large part of its capital invested in securities
payable in money, and so may be the owners of moneyed
capital; but, as we have seen, the shares of stock in suchl
companies held by individuals are not moneyed capital.
"The terms of the act of Congress, therefore, include shares
of stock or other interests owned by individuals in all enterprises in which the capital employed in carrying on its business is money, where the object of the business is the making
of profit by its use as money. The moneyed capital thus
employed is invested for that purpose in securities by way
of loan, discount, or otherwise, which are from time to time,
according to the rules of the business, reduced again to money
and reinvested. It includes money in the hands of individuals
employed in a similar way, invested in loans, or in securities
for the payment of money, either as an investment of a permanent character, or temporarily with a view to sale or,
repayment and reinvestment.
In this way the moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals is distinguished from what
is known generally as personal property. Accordingly, it was
said in Evansville Banc v. Britton, 105 U. S. 322: 1The act
of Congress does' not make the tax on personal property the
measure of the tax on the bank shares in the State, but the
tax oi moneyed capital in the hands of the individual citizens.
Credits, moneys loaned at interest, and demands against persons or corporations, are more purely representative of moneyed capital than personal property, .so far as they can be
said to differ. Undoubtedly, there may be said to be much
personal property exempt from taxation without giving bank
shares a right to similar exemption, because personal prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

erty is not necessarily moneyed capital. But the rights,
credits, demands and money at interest mentioned in the
Indiana statute, from which bonafide debts may be deducted,
all mean moneyed capital invested in that way.'"'
In respect to trust companies the court held that it was
evident, from the powers granted them in the legislation
of New York, that they were not banks in the commercial
sense of that word, and did not perform the function of banks
in carrying on the exchanges of commerce, and that, taxed as
they were, on their franchises based on income, it could not
be said that there existed any discrimination against national
banks. As to savings banks it was held that, though it could
not be denied that their deposits constituted moneyed capital
in the hands of individuals, yet it was clear that they were
not within the meaning of the act of Congress in such a sense
as to require that, if they are exempted from taxation, shares
of stock in national banks must also be exempted; that it was
part of the policy of the State to encourage the accumulatien
of small savings belonging to the industrious and thrifty, and
it was within the reasonable exercise of the power of the State
to exempt particular kinds of property, and the conclusion of
the court, in respect to savings banks, was thus expressed:
"The only limitation, upon deliberate reflection, we now
think it necessary to add, is that these exceptions should be
founded oh just reason, and not operate as an unfriendly
discrimination against investments in national bank shares.
However large, therefore, may be the amotint of moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals, in the shape of deposits
in savings banks as nobw organized, which the policy of the
State exempts from taxation for its own purposes, that exemption cannot affect the rule for the taxation of shares in
national banks, provided they are taxed at a rate not greater
than other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
otherwise subject to taxation."
The conclusions to be deduced from these decisions are that
money invested in corporations or in individual enterprises
that carry on the business of railroads, of manufacturing
enterprises, mining investments and investments in mortgages,

ABERDEEN BANK v. CHEHALIS COUNTY.

461

Opinion of the Court.

does not come into competition with the business of national
banks, and is not therefore within the meaning of the act of
Congress; that such stocks as those in insurance companies
may be legitimately taxed on income instead of on value, because such companies are not competitors for business with
national banks; and that exemptions, however large, of deposits in savings banks, or of moneys belonging to charitable
institutions, if exempted for reasons of public policy and not
as an unfriendly discrimination against investments in national
bank shares, should not be regarded as forbidden by section
5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
We shall now, in the light of the previous decisions, advert to
the allegations contained in the bill of complaint.
The substance of those allegations is: First, that there was
taxable moneyed capital in Chehalis County, which escaped
taxation, amounting to $237,400; second, that there was also
unassessed moneyed capital in other portions of the State exceeding $14,000,000; third, that the moneyed capital invested
in banks, national and state, was $11,000,000; fourth, that
there was invested in the stocks and bonds of insurance, wharf
and gas companies and other moneyed institutions, moneyed
capital amounting to at least $26,000,000.
Even if it be conceded that the stocks and bonds of insurance, wharf and gas companies were, in, point of fact, exempted
from taxation, such companies are not, as we have seen, competitors for business with the national banks, and, therefore,
might be legally exempted. As to thesum of $237,400, alleged
to be invested by individual citizens of Chehalis CountIy in loans
and securities to them payable and owiig by other citizens of
that county, we are not informed by the bill of ,the nature of
such loans and securities, aiA, as against the pleader, we may
well assume that they belong to a class of investments which
does not compete with the business of national banks. The
same is true of the sum of $14,000,000 alleged to be invested
in loans and securities by citizens of the State of Washington
and to them payable and owing by other citizens of said State.
It is, indeed, alleged in the bill that these investments were
"taxable capital," but that is an averment in the nature of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissent.

legal conclusion. If those loans and securities had been identified in the bill, or their character described, the court might
have reached a different conclusion as to their taxable character.
There is an allegation in the bill that the omission by the
taxing officers of these classes of capital from assessment and
taxation was in pursuance of aft opinion rendered by the attorney general of the State of Washington; and it is alleged
that the said attorney general was required by the laws of the
State to render opinions upon request of the assessors. But
the bill does not set forth that Opinion, or the reasons upon
which the attorney general proceeded. The Supreme Court
of the State of Washington, adverting to this allegation of
the bill, suggests that it is probable that the opinion referred
to was one dated February 5, 1891, addressed to the state auditor, and in which the attorney general advised that accounts,
promissory notes and mortgages were to be oxempted, in order,
perhaps, to avoid double taxation. And the Supreme Court
well observes that if the action of the assessors was based upon
this decision of the law officer of the State, and went no further,
the allegations of the bill would certainly turn out to be unsupported 6 Washington, 64.
We agree with the Supreme Court of Washington in thinking that the allegations of this complaint nowhere show that
any moneyed capital of the character defined by the Federal
Supreme Court was omitted or intended to be omitted by the
assessors; or if the intention of the complaint be to cover any
such existing cases, the allegations are so general and indefinite
that they cannot be made the basis of action.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
Aflirrned.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BROWN

and AIR.

JUSTICE

WHITE are of opinion that the bill makes aprimajaciecase of

illegal discrimination against capital invested in national bank
stock, and, therefore, that the demurrer should have been overruled.

