OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

from taxation was not a contract to exempt, unless there were
a consideration for the act; that the promise of a gratuity, spontaneously made, may be kept, changed or recalled at pleasure, and that this rule applied to the agreements of States,
made without consideration, as well as to those of persons.
See also -Newtonv. Comneissioners,100 U. S. 548, 561, and People
v. Roper, 35 N. Y. 629, wherein a law, providing that persons
who had served seven years in the militia and had been honorably discharged, were entitled to perpetual immunity from
taxation to the extent of $500 each, was held to be repealable
at any time by the legislature.
The act of 1855, now in question, clearly falls within the
latter class of gratuities or bounties, which are subject to the
will of the legislature, and'may be withdrawn at any time.
The decree of the court below was, therefore, right, and
will be
Afirmed.

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
No. 462. Argued December 11, 14, 1896.

KENTUCKY.

Decided March 15, 1897.

The Henderson Bridge Company was a corporation created by the Commonwealth of Kentucky for the purpose of erecting and operating a railroad
bridge, with its approaches, over the Ohio River between the city of
Henderson, in Kentucky, and the Indiana shore. It owned 9.46 miles of
railroad and .65 of a mile of siding, making its railroad connections in
Indiana, which property was assessed for taxation in that State, at
$627,660. The length of the bridge in the two States, measured by feet,
was one third in Indiana and two thirds in Kentucky. The tangible
property of the company was assessed in Henderson County, Kentu6ky, at
$649,735.54.
From the evidence before them, the Board of Valuation
and Assessment placed the value of the company's entire property at
$2,900,000, and deducted therefrom $627,660 for the tangible property
assessed in Indiana, which left $2,272,340, of which two thirds, or
$1,514,893, was held to be the entire value of the property in Kentucky.
From this, $649,735.54, the value of the tangible property in Henderson

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

151

Counsel for Parties.
County, was deducted, and the remainder, $865,157.46, was fixed by the
Board as the value of the company's franchise. From the total value,
$1,885,107 was deducted for the tangible and intangible property in
Indiana, and the taxes in Kentucky were levied on $1,514,893 of tangible
and intangible property in that State. The company paid the tax on the
tangible property ($2762.08), and refused to pay the tax on the intangible property ($3675.91). This action was brought to recover it. The
Court of Appeals held that the Commonwealth was entitled to recover
it. Held,
(1) That the company was chartered by the State of Kentucky to build
and operate a bridge and the State could properly include the
franchises it had granted in the valuation of the company's
property for taxation;
(2) That the tax was not a tax on the interstate business carried on
over or by means of the bridge, because the bridge company did
not transact such business; that business being carried on by
the persons and corporations which paid the bridge company tolls
for the privilege of using the bridge;
(3) That the fact that the tax in question was to some extent affected
by the amount of the tolls received; and therefore might be supposed to increase the rate of tolls, was too remote and incidental
to make it a tax on the business transacted;
(4) That the acts of Congress conferred no right or franchise on the
company to erect the bridge or collect tolls for its use; that they
merely regulated the height of bridges over that river and the
width of their spans, in order that they might not interfere with
its navigation; and that the declaration that such bridges should
be regarded as post roads did not interfere with the right of the
State to impose taxes;
(5) That the tax in controversy was nothing more than a tax on the
intangible property of the company in Kentucky, and was sustained as such by the Court of Appeals, as consistent with the
provisions of the constitution of Kentucky in reference to taxation; and that for the reasons given, and on the authorities cited
in Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S. 194, this
court is unable to conclude that the method of taxation prescribed
by the statute of Kentucky and followed.in making this assessment is in violation of the Constitutcn of the United States.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.James P. Helm for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

Mr. Helm Bruce

Mr. William .1. Hendrick for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF
court.

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

This was an action brought by the Commonwealth of Kentucky against the Henderson Bridge Company to recover the
sum of $3675.91,; taxes levied against that company on an
assessment made of its intangible property by the Kentucky
Board of Valuation and Assessment for the year 1893.
The Henderson Bridge Company is a corporation created
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky for the purpose of erecting and operating a railroad bridge, with its approaches, over
the Ohio River between the city of Henderson, in Kentucky,
and the Indiana shore.
The record does not show that it was also incorporated
under any law of Indiana, but the company alleged that,
being incorporated by the laws of Kentucky, it was granted
certain powers and privileges under the laws of Indiana;
though it was not denied that the company actually constructed and now owned and operated the bridge and approaches under its Kentucky charter. It was, moreover,
averred that the company built its bridge under and in accordance with the act of Congress of December 17, 1872, c. 4,
17 Stat. 398, entitled "An act to authorize the construction of
bridges across the Ohio River, and to prescribe the dimensions
of the same," which provided that any such bridge should be
recognized as a post route; and the act supplementary to that
act approved February 14, 1883, c. 44, 22 Stat. 414.
It appeared that the bridge company owned 9.46 miles of
railroad and .65 of a mile of siding, making its railroad connections in Indiana, which property was assessed for takation
in that State, at $627,660 ; that the length of the bridge in
the two States, measured by feet, was one third in Indiana
and two thirds in Kentucky; that the tangible property of
the company was assessed in Henderson County, Kentucky,
at $649,735.54; that the capital stock of the company was
$1,000,000, and that it had issued bonds to the amount of
$2,000,000..
From the evidence before them, the Board of Valuation

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v., KENTUCKY.

153

Opinion of the Court.

and Assessment placed the value of the company's entire
property at $2,900,000, and deducted therefrom $627,660
for the tangible property assessed in Indiana, which left
$2,272,340, of which two thirds, or $1,514,893, was held to
be the entire value of the property in Kentucky. From this,
$649,735.54, the value of the tangible property in Henderson
County, was deducted, and the remainder, $865,157.46, was
fixed by the Board as the value of the company's franchise.
The company's stock was worth not less than $90 per share
on the market, and the bonds took precedence of the stock.
The evidence showed a large amount of assets and the receipt
of a large income. From the total value, $1,385,107 was
deducted for the tangible and intangible property in Indiana,
and the taxes in Kentucky were levied on $1,514,893 of tangible and intangible property in that State.
The tax on the tangible property amounted to $2762.08,
and this, as we understand it, was paid by the company. The
tax on the intangible property was $3675.91, which the company refused to pay, whereupon this action was brought for
its recovery.
The state Circuit Court rendered judgment in favor of the
Commonwealth for $595, which was reversed by the Court of
Appeals, which held the Commonwealth entitled to recover
the full amount. 31 S. W. Rep. 486. The cause having been
remanded, and judgment entered accordingly, by the Circuit
Court, and affirmed by the Court of Appeals, this writ of error
ws sued out.
The company was chartered by the State of Kentucky to
build and operate a bridge, and the State could properly include
the franchises it had granted in the valuation of the company's
property for taxation. CentralPacific Railroadv. California,
162 U. S. 91. The regulation of tolls for transportation over
the bridge considered in Covington & Cincinnati Bridge Co.
v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, presented an entirely different
question.
Clearly the tax was not a tax on the interstate business carried on over or by means of the bridge, because the bridge company did not transact such business. That business was carried

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

on by the persons and corporations which phid the bridge company tolls for the privilege of using the bridge. The fact that
the tax in question was to some extent affected by the amount
of the tolls received, and therefore might be supposed to increase the rate of tolls, is too remote and incidental to make
it a tax on the business transacted. This very question was
decided in Erie Railroadv. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431, 439,
where it was said: "It is argued that the imposition of a tax
on tolls might lead to increasing them in an effort to throw
their burthen on the carrying company. Such a result is
merely conjectural, and, at all events, too remote and indirect
to be an interference with interstate commerce. The interference with the commercial power must be direct, and not
the mere incidental effeGt of the requirement of the usual
proportional contribution to public maintenance." The only
franchises treated here as the subject of taxation were those
granted by the State of Kentucky. So far as the State of Indiana could be said to have conferred any franchise upon the
company, it was a franchise that inhered in that portion of
the structure that was within the State of Indiana, the value
of which was not included in the tax complained of.
The acts of Congress conferred no right or franchise on the
company to erect the bridge or collect tolls for its use. They
merely regulated the height of bridges over that river and the
width of their spans, in order that they might not interfere
with its navigation. The declaration that such bridges should
be regarded as post roads did not interfere with the right of the
State to impose taxes, as was decided in Postal Telegraph Cable
Co. v. Charleston,153 U. S. 692, 700. The contrary view would
withdraw from the taxing power of the States nearly all the
railroads and stage routes throughout the country.
The tax in controversy was nothing more than a tax on the
intangible property of the company in Kentucky, and was
sustained as such by the Court of Appeals, as consistent with
the provisions of the constitution of Kentucky in reference to
taxation.
And for the reasons given, and on the authorities cited in
Adams Express Co. v. Ohio State A'uditor, 165 U. S. 194, we are

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

155

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

unable to conclude that the method of taxation prescribed by
the statute of Kentucky and followed in making this assessment is in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with
FIELD, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BRowN, dis-

senting.
A fuller statement of the facts than is given in the opinion
of the court seems to me necessary in order to make clear the
reasons for my dissent.
The plaintiff in error, the Henderson Bridge Company,
owns and operates a bridge across the Ohio River from
Henderson; Kentucky, to the Indiana shore. This bridge is
largely occupied by railroad tracks, used, necessarily, solely
for interstate commerce. On the Kentucky side there is an
approach, and one also on the Indiana side, consisting of an
embankment and a siding about nine miles in length. The
corporation was chartered by the State of Kentucky. The
general laws of the State of Indiana provide for the recognition of any corporation "created by the laws of another State
for constructing a bridge across any river or stream forming
in whole or in part, the boundary between such other State
and this State."

It directs also the filing of a copy of the

charter in Indiana, and subjects the charter of the corporation to the exercise by the State of Indiana of the power
to repeal, alter or amend. The bridge in question was also
authorized by act of Congress and was established as a post
route. 17 Stat. 398, as amended by 22 Stat. 414. Whether
the operation of the Indiana legislation was to make the
bridge company an Indiana corporation, need not be considered.

It is certain, however, from the facts just stated,

that the bridge. company possessed, first, a franchise to exist
as a corporation from the State of Kentucky, and under this
franchise to build and operate the bridge to the Indiana line
-that
is, two thirds of its length; second, that it also possessed a franchise or right from the State of Indiana, whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

a corporation under the Indiana laws or not, to build and
operate the bridge and its approaches in so far as these
structures were to be located in that State; third, a franchise or right derived from the United States to operate the
bridge for purposes of interstate commerce and as a post
route. None of these franchises were incompatible, the one
with the other, and all were of such a nature as to be of value
to the corporation.
The laws of the State of Kentucky under which the tax in
question was levied are set out in extenso in the opinion of the
court in Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, this day decided,
post, 171, and I therefore content myself with a brief statement
thereof. The sections referred to are as numbered and contained in Barbour & Carroll's compilation of the Kentucky
statutes in force in 1894.
Section 4019 fixes the rate of taxation and the various purposes for which taxes may be imposed. Section 4020 defines
the general subjects of taxation, that is to say, the objects
upon which the rate of taxation provided in the previous section are to be levied. This latter section provides that "all
real and personal estate within this State, and all personal
estate of persons residing in this State, and of all corporations
organized under the laws of this State, whether the property
be in or out of this State, including intangible property, which
shall be considered and estimated in fixing the value of corporate franchises as hereinafter provided, shall be subject to
taxation unless the same be exempt," etc.
It is manifest that this section clearly designates the objects
of taxation to be as follows: (a) all real and personal estate
within this State; (b) all personal estate of persons residing
within the State; (c) all the property of corporations organized under the laws of the State, whether such property be in
or out of the State, including the intangible property of such
corporations, which property, that is, the intangible property,
whether situated in or out of the State, shall be considered
and estimated in fixing the value of the corporate franchises.
The statutes of Kentucky proyide, as a general rule, for the
assessment by the local or county officials of all real and per-

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

157

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

sonal property of individuals or corporations in the county,
where the property is situated or the corporation established.
The franchise tax embraced in the last of the foregoing enumerations is not assessed by the local authorities, but by a
board of valuation and assessment, composed of the state auditor, treasurer and secretary of State; for it is said in section
4077: "The auditor, treasurer and secretary of State are hereby
constituted a board of valuation and assessment, for fixing the
value of said franchises," and a subsequent sentence makes
the state auditor the chairman of the board. Section 4078
compels a return to this board showing the amount of capital
stock, preferred and common; the number of shares; the
amount of stock paid up; the par and real value thereof; the
highest price at which such stock was sold at a bonafide sale
within the next twelve months before the day on which the
statement is required to be made; the amount of surplus and
undivided profit, the value of all assets, the total amount f
principal intlebtedness, the amount of gross or net earnings
or income, including interest on investments and income from
all sources for twelve months; the amount and kind of tangible property in the State, and where situated, "assessed or
liable to assessment in the State," and the fair cash value
thereof estimated at the price it would bring at a fair voluntary sale, and such other facts as the auditor may require.
Section 4079 provides, if the corporation have a line or lines
extending beyond the limits of the State, the statement must
also show the length of the entire line owned, leased or controlled in the State, and the entire line of the same company
elsewhere. If the corporation be organized under the laws
of any other State, or under the laws of Kentucky, but conduct its business in Kentucky as well as in other States, the
statement is required to show the gross or net income or earnings received in the State and out of the State on business
done in the State and the entire gross receipts of the company
in the State and elsewhere during twelve months.
From the data thus obliged to be furnished to the board,
the act (§ 4079) commands that the -assessment of the franchises of the corporation created by the State of Kentucky

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

shall be made as follows (I quote): "Provided, that said
board, from said statement and from such ,other evidence,
as it may have, if such corporation, company or association
be organized under the laws of this State, shall fix the value
of the capital stock of the corporation, company or association, as provided in the next succeeding section, and from the
amount thus fixed shall deduct the assessed value of all tangible property assessed in this State, or in the counties where
situated. The remainder thus found shall be the value of its
corporatefranchise subject to taxation as aforesaid." The following section (4080) fixes the rule for the ascertainment of
the value of the capital stock by which the amount of the
tax on franchises is to be arrived at, by making it the duty
of the board to "take the proportion which the gross receipts
in this State within twelve months . . . bears to the entire gross receipts o)f the company," and declaring that "the
same proportion of the value of the entire capital stock, less
the assessed valte of the tangible property assessed, or liable
to assessment, in this State, shall be the correct value of the corporate franchise of such co.-poration . . . for taxation in
this State."
The bridge company was assessed by the local county officials on the bridge and other tangible property the sum of six
hundred and forty-nine thousand seven hundred and thirtyfive dollars and fifty-four cents ($649,735.54). The board of
valuation assessed the company for the franchise tax, under
the laws above stated, in the sum of eight hundred and
sixty-five thousand one hundred and fifty-seven dollars and
forty-six cents ($865,157.46). The constitutionality of this
latter assessment and the tax levied thereupon is the issue
involved.
The first question which arises is, Was the tax levied on
the franchise of the corporation? In solving this question it
will serve only to confuse and delude the reason if the method
which has been pursued in argument is now followed, that is,
of calling the levy a franchise tax in one breath and then in
the next dropping that designation, and not only denominating
the tax, but treating it as solely a tax on intangible property.

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

159

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

If the words "intangible property" be synonymous with franchise, there is no reason for shifting the name by which the
object taxed is designated. If, on the contrary, intangible
property and franchise are two different objects, then to call
the tax first by one and then by the other name gives rise not
only to inaccuracy, but to misapprehension.
That the tax is on the franchise is to me so obvious, so clear,
that I fail to see how there can be doubt or question on the
subject. The law under which the tax is levied, in language
which nothing can obscure, designates it as a franchise tax and
only a franchise tax. Can this be denied ? Let the query be
answered by briefly considering the law, section by section.
Section 4020 says "shall be considered and estimated in
fixing the value of the corporate franchises as hereinafter provided." Section 4077, the one which creates the board of valuation, declares "are hereby constituted a. board of valuation
and assessment, for fixing the value of said franchises." Section 4078 says "in order to determine the value of the
franchises mentioned"; section 4079, that the information
required of the taxpayer is for "determining the value of
the franchises to be taxed." Section 4080 is no less explicit: "Shall be the correct value of the corporate franchise
of such corporation, company or association for taxation in
this State."
But clear as is the statute in its every line, the pleadings of
the State, by which this suit was commenced, are, if possible,
more so. The declaration, after reciting the levy of the assessment by the board and stating the total amount, adds that it
is the sum" which said board of valuation and assessment fixed
as the value of the franchise of said defendant company."
The language of the statute and the averment of the petition
are, moreover, supported by the opinion of the highest court
of the State of Kentucky, from which this case comes to this
court, wherein it is announced that the tax is on the franchise.
I shall quote from the opinion hereafter.
The tax being, then, a tax on franchises, the que§tion is
First, Is it exclusively on the franchise to exist as a corporation granted by the laws of Kentucky ? or, second, Is it also

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

a tax on the .franchise enjoyed by the corporation from the
United States, and likewise on the one accorded to the corporation by the State of Indiana, and in addition is the tax a burden laid directly by the State upon the interstate commerce
business carriedon by the corporation? If it is solely on the
first of these objects of taxation, of course it was within the
power of the State to assess and levy it. Central Paciic
Railroad v. California,162 U. S. 91. On the other hand, if
the tax is levied on all or either of the subject-matters of taxation embraced in the second enumeration, it violates the Constitution. California v. Paci~fic Railroad, 127 U. S. 1, and
authorities cited and referred to in the dissenting opinion in
Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 229.
The difference between the levy exclusively on the franchise
to exist as a corporation granted by a State, and the attempt
by such State to tax franchises granted by the United States
or another State, or to lay a burden on interstate commerce,
is well illustrated in Philadelphia& Southern Steamship Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326. There a tax had been laid
by the State of Pennsylvania upon the gross receipts of a
domestic corporation of the State under authority of a statute
which embraced certain classes of corporations, both foreign
and domestic. Answering the argument that the vessels and
franchises of the corporation were two kinds of personal property, and that the tax was really upon the franchises of the
company, and that each kind of property was taxed without
regard to the fact that it was involved in and devoted to the
pursuit of interstate and foreign commerce, the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley, said (p. 342):
"The second ground on which the decision referred to was
based was, that the tax was upon the franchise of the corporation granted to it by the State. We do not think that this
can be affirmed in the present case. It certainly could not
have been intended as a tax on the corporate franchise,
because, by the terms of the act, it was laid equally on the
corporations of other States doing business in Pennsylvania..
If intended as a tax on the franchise of doing businesswhich, in this case, is the business of transportation in carry-

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

161

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

ing on interstate and foreign commerce -it would clearly be
unconstitutional."
The issue, then, is: was this franchise tax levied solely
upon the franchise granted by the State of Kentucky to exist
as a corporation, or was it upon all the franchises of the comIt
pany and upon all its interstate commerce business?
cannot be that the Kentucky law contemplated that the
assessment which it ordained, should be only oh the franchise
to exist as a corporation derived from that State, since the
statute commands that the tax shall be laid upon all corporations doing business in the State, whether or not they hold a
franchise to be a corporation from the State of Kentucky.
This is shown to be the fact on the very face of the statutes,
and this test was made decisive by this court as shown in the
foregoing citation from the opinion in PhiladelphiaSteamship
Co. v. Pennsylvania.
Let me turn to the particular provisions of the statute and
ascertain upon what it commands the tax to be levied.
Section 4020, in enumerating the objects of taxation which
shall be assessed as part of the franchise, provides for all
intangible property to be thus included in the franchise,
whether t, property be in or out of the State. Can it be said
when the law in mandatory terms directs the inclusion in the
franchise to be assessed of property, whether in or out of
the State, that it means that only the franchise granted by
the State to a corporation to exist as such shall be assessed ?
Examine the other sections of the law, 4077, 4078, 4079, 4080,
and it is apparent that they also provide that the board shall
consider the entire value of the corporate property, everything that it owns, in ascertaining the value of the franchise,
which is the thing to be taxed. Now, when the law says that
in taxing the franchise the board shall include therein all the
intangible property of the corporation, whether within or
without the State, and, moreover, in subsequent provisions
imposes on the board the duty not simply of considering all
the property in and out of the State, but imperatively says
that the assessment of the franchise shall contain all this
property, it seems to me that it is impossible with reason to
VOL. CLXVI-11

OCTOBER TERML 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

say that the assessment which the law required was one only
on the franchise to exist as a corporation granted by the
State, and was not levied on the value of the franchise made
up by assessing every right which the corporation possessed,
whether in or out of the State, or whether conferred by the
United States or the State of Indiana.
That the board by which the assessment was made considered it to be its duty to include every thing in and out of
the State and every right possessed by the corporation, is
made also clear by the testimony of the state auditor, who
was president of the board of valuation. The corporation
had a capital stock, the par value of which was one million
(1,000,000) dollars; it had besides outstanding bonds to the
amount of two million (2,000,000) dollars. The president of
his testimony is all there is on the
the board stated -and
subject in the record- that the total value was fixed, as
follows.:
One million (1,000,000) dollars of capital stock,
which was valued at ninety (90) dollars per
share ...................................
Two million (2,000,000) dollars of bonds, valued
at par ..................................
Total .,...................

$900,000 00
2,000,000 00
$2,900,000 00

As by the statute. the value of the taxable franchise was to
be ascertained by taking the sum determined to be the worth
of the capital stock, as that term was employed in the statute,
less the amount of property otherwise taxed, which was to be
deducted, it follows that the franchise was embraced in the
amount of this total. As the franchise was included in the
total, it also results, as the part is contained in the whole,
that the elements which entered into and formed a part of
the total were, therefore, elements of value entering into and
forming part of the taxable franchise.
Now, by what process of calculation does the president of
the board declare that the sum of two million nine hundred
I quote the
thousand (2,900,000) dollars was reached?

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

163

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

"They say their gross earnings or income
amounted to ............................
Income from all other sources ..............

$209,072 21
8,000 00

"Total ....................
$217,072 21
Less interest on bonds ..........
$120,000 00
Less sinking fund ................
21,000 00
141,000 00
"Balance ..................

$76,072 21

"So that you see here the corporation paying $120,000
interest on two millions of bonds, putting $21,000 into a
sinking fund, and with a net profit upon the operation of the
bridge of $76,071.21, which was over seven per cent on one
million of stock."
Thus the president of the board declares that the total sum
out of which the taxable value of the franchise was to be
ascertained was fixed at nearly two millions of dollars above
the par value of the stock of the company, because the gross
(not the net) earnings of the company derived from its entire
interstate commerce business-its business done in Indiana
as well as in Kentucky - were all treated as one. The further
result of the testimony is that, because by so considering these
gross earnings they established that the company realized a
sum which would pay six per cent upon its bonds and seven
per cent upon the par of its capital stock, therefore the gross
amount, in which the franchise was included, was fixed at two
million nine hundred thousand (2,900,000) dollars.
'In passing it is worthy of remark that the record contains
no explanation of how it could have been found that the gross
earnings could have produced the result stated, in view of the
fact that none of the operating expenses of the corporation
were taken into consideration, and that no allowance was
even made for the payment of the sum of the tax which the
board proceeded to assess. Can it be said in face of the fact
that the assessing officer declares that although in making up
the total amount every right possessed by the corporation and
all the results of its interstate business were made the basis of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

the valuation, yet that the sum so made up embraced only the
mere right of the corporation to exist as such, granted by
Kentucky, and did not include the rights enjoyed by the
corporation under the law of the United States and the
law of Indiana, and also all its gross interstate commerce
earnings ?
But the testimony of the president of the board as to the
method of calculation by which the ultimate taxable value of
the franchise was fixed at eight hundred and sixty-five thousand one hundred and fifty-seven dollars and forty-six cents
($865,157.46) is an additional demonstration that tile sum of
all the gross earnings from interstate commerce, and indeed
everything that the corporation earned, was included in this
amount. How was this taxable value of the franchise fixed?
The total valuation was .....................
$2,900,000 00
There was deducted the following assessment on the nine miles
of railroad in Indiana ..........
$627,660 00
Actual value of bridge estimated
in Kentucky .................
649,735 54
Actual value of bridge estimated
in Indiana ...............
....
757,447 00
Total ............................
2 ,034,842 54
Balance .....................
$865,157 46
That is to say, the president of the board testifies that after
having used the whole gross earnings of the company, from
interstate commerce, from business done in Indiana under the
franchise held by that State, and also under that held by the
United States, in order thereby to swell the original amount,
yet when the deductions came to be made nothing was subtracted in consequence of having included in the original
amount the results of the United States franchise, those of
the Indiana franchise, and those arising from the entire interstate commerce business of the corporation. As it is, in my
opinion, a demonstration that these things were included in
the gross amount, and as it is also a demonstration that none

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

165

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

of them were deducted, it follows that the taxable value of
the franchise was almost wholly nade up of these items. It
cannot, I submit, be said that where a thing is included to
make up an amount and is not subsequently deducted therefrom, it does not continue to be a part of the amount into
which it originally entered. The statement of the president
of the assessing board is the only testimony on the subject
contained in the record. In view of the fact that he unquestionably establishes that the assessment was really on the
gross receipts, I submit it leaves no room whatever for conjecture or presumption that the assessment must have been
levied upon some other object of taxation.
This court has held repeatedly that a State cannot tax the
gross earnings of a corporation, even though created by-it, derived from interstate commerce, as the levy of such tax would
be a burden on that commerce, and therefore an interference
with the exclusive power of Congress over that subject. It
being beyond dispute, therefore, that the sum of taxation: in
this case was fixed almost exclusively by the gross earnings
from interstate commerce, who, may I ask, can point out the
distinction between taxing the gross earnings derived from
interstate commerce and taxing a valuation based on such
earnings? The elementary principle so often applied by the
court, that a tax which may not be imposed directly cannot
be levied indirectly, is decisive. Indeed, even the application
of that familiar rule is unnecessary, since the method pursued
in this case is an exact and literal equivalent of a tax levied
directly upon the gross earnings from interstate commerce
itself.
The language of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, whose
judgment is now here for review, leaves no doubt as to how
it understood the case and what it interpreted the tax to be.
The opinion, in referring to the use of the words "capital
stock" as a measure or instrument for the purposes of the valuation of the franchise, says (31 S. W. Rep. 491): "By this
term ' capital stock' the legislature meant to include the entire
property, real and personal, tangible and intangible, assets on
hand, and its franchises as well; and that, when so embraced

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

and construed and valued as an entirety," the net balance obtained by deducting the tangible property already assessed
would constitute the "value of the franchise to be taxed under
section 4071." And, again, in another portion of the opinion,
after reviewing the figures showing the value of the "property
pind the franchises of the company" (mark the use of the plural),
the court said (p. 491): "So that the large earning capacity of this property, based 'on its tangible value only, authorizes us to assume that it lies in its franchise, which is the right
to charge tolls on every locomotive, freight and passenger car,
ton of freight, and passenger that passes over its road." Also
(on p. 492), the court quotes from section 929 of Morawetz on
Corporations, among other remarks of the author, the following: "On the other hand, franchises clearly have a value if
the word ' value' is used to signify the advantage derived from
their possession; or, in other words, their utility. The value
of a franchise, using the word ' value' in this sense, would not
be measured by the cost or difficulty of obtaining the franchise,
or by its exclusive character, but by the benefit derived from
its possession." The Kentucky court adds: "Thus, the value
of the franchise in this case aptly illustrates the meaning of
the author."
When the opinion of the court of last resort of the State,
as announced in this very case, asserts that the tax is, beyond
doubt, a levy upon all the property of the company in and
out of the State, that it is a tax upon the value of the exercise
of the privilege of using the bridge, of chargingfor the running
of locomotives across the bridge, and of doing the business of
interstate commerce in anyform, I cannot bring my mind to
the conclusion that the tax is only levied on the mere franchise
to exist as a corporation conferred by the State of Kentucky.
It was doubtless the construction given by the Kentucky
court to the statute which has caused the opinion of this court
now announced to maintain the proposition that the traffic
over the bridge which crosses the river between Kentucky
and Indiana, and over which, in the nature of things, there
can be, I think, nothing but interstate commerce, is not such
commerce. Serious as I conceive to be the violation of the

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

167

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

Constitution which results from recognizing the right of a

State to tax gross earnings derived from interstate commerce,
the premise upon which the court thus rests its opinion, to my
mind, is a yet more evident violation of the Constitution, and
is more pregnant with dangerous results to our institutions.
I consider it a new and startling doctrine to say that a
bridge which is situated in two States, with the sanction of the
laws of both, which has been made a post route by act of
Congress, is not an instrument of interstate commerce, and
that the traffic which goes over such bridge is not such commerce, and that the receipts derived from or charges resulting
from such business are not receipts derived from interstate
commerce business. Pushed to its legitimate conclusion, this
premise deprives the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution .of its entire efficacy, and is, I think, in direct conflict
with the Constitution as interpreted by this court from the
foundation of the government. I need go no further to demonstrate this than to refer to the recent decision of this court in
Covington '& Cincinnati Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.
204, where the validity of an act of the legislature of Kentucky regulating the rate of tolls to be charged for traffic
over a bridge between Covington, Kentucky, and Cincinnati,
Ohio, was considered. In the course of the opinion this court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Brown, said (p. 217):
"This case involves the right of one State to fix charges
for the transportation of persons and property over a bridge
connecting it with another State, without the assent of Congress or such other State, and thus involving the further
inquiries, first, whether such traffic across the river is interstate commerce; and, second, whether a bridge can be considered an instrument of such commerce."
Both these questions were answered in the affirmative on
the authority of. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114
IT. S. 196, and Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway v.
Illinois, 118 U. S. 557. These cases were held to be directly
in point. The' first denied the right of the State to impose
a tax upon the franchise of a ferry company operating between
the' States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, while the second

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

denied to the State of Illinois the power of regulating the
rates of railway charges between Illinois and New York.
Where, may I ask, can the line of distinction be drawn
between the Covington Bridge case and this? The bridge
in the former case was one between Kentucky and Ohio over
the Ohio River, the bridge here is over the same river between
Kentucky and Indiana. Certainly, it cannot be said that
there is something peculiar to the State of Indiana which
causes the bridge between that State and Kentucky not to be
an instrument of interstate commerce, and the traffic over it
not to be interstate commerce, when the contrary is the case
as to a bridge between Kentucky and Ohio.
The contention that although the traffic over the bridge
may be interstate commerce and the receipts from said traffic
be interstate commerce receipts, yet the tolls paid to the
bridge company are not receipts from interstate commerce
business transacted by the bridge company, is a mere distinction without a difference. What, may I again ask, is the toll
paid to the company for the use of the bridge but the result
of a contract entered into for the purpose of carrying on interstate commerce? In the Covington Bridge case the sole question was as to the right of the State of Kentucky to regulate
the amount of tolls to be received by the bridge company.
The right of the State was denied on the ground that the tolls
were a matter of interstate commerce, that is, that the business of operating the bridge and charging for the use thereof
was interstate commerce and.not subject to state control. In
that case then, the tolls were adjudged to be receipts from
interstate commerce; in the case at bar, they are declared
not so to be. The -far-reaching consequence of this asserted
distinction is well calculated to arouse- solicitude for the future.
A large portion of the interstate commerce business of the
country is carried on by freight lines. These lines arrange
with the railways for transportation, pay them a charge or
toll, and upon this basis afford the public increased business
'facilities. Under the supposed distinction all this interstate
commerce traffic ceases to be such, and the whole of the gross
receipts.become taxable in every State through which the

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.

169

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

business passes. The freight lines do not transport the merchandise; the railways do; therefore the receipts of the
freight lines as to such lines are not interstate commerce
receipts. This illustration is but one of the many which at
once suggest themselves. All the express business, the sleeping car business, the tank lines, and manifold other forms of
interstate commerce, will be stricken down if the rule now
applied.to the tolls of an interstate bridge be enforced as to
other means of interstate commerce.
Where, also, I submit, does a distinction exist between this
case and the case of the ferry between Pennsylvania and New
Jersey, considered in the Gloucester Ferry case, or the attempt
of the State of Illinois to regulate freight charges between
that State and New York, embraced in the Wabash case,
supra? Manifestly, there is an irreconcilable conflict between the decision in this case and the rulings of the court
in the cases just cited. It follows that in order to maintain
the tax in the case at bar the decisions referred to must be
and are, as I conceive, substantially overruled by the opinion
now announced.
Nor can I see the slightest relevancy to the issues in this
cause of the decision in Erie Railroad v. Pennsylvania,158
U. S. 431. In that case, the court considered a statute of
Pennsylvania which authorized the imposition of a tax upon
the gross receipts of companies for tolls and transportation
derived from railroads, etc., situated within the State. The
Erie company held and operated several branch lines lying
wholly within the State of Pennsylvania, and permitted "other
railroad companies to use such branch lines or portions thereof,
and the taxes there in question were laid upon the tolls so
received by the Erie company from its lessees. Such receipts,
of course, were merely the income derived from property
lying wholly within the State of Pennsylvania.
Obviously, the mere fact that corporations who practically
rented property wholly in Pennsylvania and paid rent charges
thereon, did business outside of the State, could not exempt
the landlord (the Erie company) from paying taxes on the
rentals so received from its tenants for property wholly in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ,

Pennsylvania. Is there any ground for contending here that
the Henderson bridge is wholly in Kentucky, when the fact
is that it is both in Kentucky and Indiana, and that no busi.ness can be done over it which is not necessarily business
done in both States and between both States? That there
was no intention in the Erie case to question the settled doctrine as to the want of power in a State to tax interstate commerce, or the gross receipts derived therefrom, is conclusively
shown by the express language of the opinion, where it was
declared (p. 437) that it was needless to review the previous
decisions of this court, holding that a tax laid upon gross
receipts derived from interstate commerce put a burden upon
commerce among the States and was void, because the proposition the decisions were quoted to sustain was regarded as
thoroughly established. So, likewise, at page 438, an .extract
was made from the decision in Postal Telegraph Company v.
Charleston, 153 U. S. 692, 695, and the doctrine there declared
was approved, to wit, that a tax, by whatever name imposed,
was valid where the amount of the tax was made dependent
in fact on the value of the property of the taxpayer situated
within the jurisdiction of the State imposing the tax.
How can it in reason be said that a case which proceeded
solely upon the ground that the rentals which were taxed
were the fruits of property which lay wholly within the State
of Pennsylvania is authority supporting the proposition now
maintained that the State of Kentucky has the right to tax
the gross receipts derived from business not done wholly
within the State, but consisting of tolls and charges derived
from the operation of a bridge situated between that State
and the State of Indiana, and which tolls and charges this
court has recently declared in the - Covington Bridge case,
supra, constitute receipts from interstate commerce business?
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTIcE FIELD, MV[R. JUSHARLAN and MR. JUsTIcE BROWN concur in this dissent.

TIe

