TASIGI v. VAN DE CARR.
Syllabus.

us by a special finding by the court, and as the evidence which
developed the facts is not brought to our notice by exception
to its competency or relevancy, no questions of law are presented for our review.
It is true that an agreed statement of facts was stipulated
into the record of the case from the former trial; but additional evidence was introduced at this trial, and the prayers
were based on the entire evidence.
It was said in Grayson v. Lynch, 163 U. S. 468, 472, that
"this court has held in a series of cases that the special findings of facts, referred to in the acts allowing parties to submit
issues of fact in civil cases to be tried and determined bythe
court, is not a mere report of the evidence, but a finding of those
ultimate facts upon which the law must determine the iigbts
of the parties; and, if the findings of facts be general, only
such rulings of the court in the progress of the trial can be
reviewed as are presented by a bill of exceptions, and that in
such case a bill of exceptions cannot be used to bring up the
whole testimony for review any more than in a trial by jury."
Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125; Dirst v. JMorris, 14 Wall.
484; Boogher v. Insurance Co., 103 U. S. 90; Lehnen v. Dick-

son, 148 U. S. 72.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly
A4fflpmed.

IASIGI v. YAN DE CARI.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 746. Argued March 22, 1S9T.-Decided

April 5, 1S97.

lasigi, Consul General of Turkey in Boston, was arrested in New York,
February 14, 1897, on a warrant issued by a magistrate of the latter city,
to await the warrant of the governor of New York on the requisition of
the governor of Massachusetts for his surrender as a fugitive from
justice in that State, where he was charged with having committed
the crime of embezzlement. On the 18th of February he applied to the
District Court of the United States for a writ of habeas corpus, on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1b96.
Opinion of the Court.
ground that the proceedings before the city magistrate were without
authority or jurisdiction, because of his consular office. The writ was
issued and a hearing had March 12. The District Court dismissed the
writ, and remanded the prisoner, from which judgment an appeal was
taken. On the 19th of March the State Department was informed that
Iasigi had been removed from his consular office by the Turkish government on the 9th of that month. Held, that the order of the District
Court remanding him to custody was not erroneous.
Nishimura Ekiu v. .United States, 142 U. S. 651, followed to the point that
the object of a writ of habeas corpus is to ascertain whether the prisoner
applying for it can be legally detained in custody; and if sufficient
ground for his detention be shown, he is not to be discharged for defects
in the original arrest or commitment.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Frederic R?. Coudert, Jr., for appellant. Mr. Charles
FredericAdams and Mr. -DavidKeane were on his brief.
-Mr. John D. Lindsay for appellee. Mr. I.
and Mr. Albert Stickney were on his brief.
MR.

H. [f. Olcott

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Joseph A. Iasigi, a native born citizen of Massachusetts,
was arrested, February 14, 1897, on a warrant issued by one
of the city imagistrates of the city of New York, as a fugitive
from the justice of the State of MassachUsetts, charged with
having committed the crime of embezzlement in that State,
and, upon examination, was committed, February 16, to the
custody of the warden and keeper of the city, prison of the
city of New York to await the warrant of the governor of
New York on the requisition bf the executive authority of the
State of Masshchusetts for his surreiider as such fugitive, pursuant to Part six, Chapter I of Title 4, of the Code of Criminal
Procedure of New York, §§ 828, 830.
On the 18th of February he filed a petition for the writ of
habeas corpus in the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York, to procure his release
from custody, which averred that he was the Consul General
of the Sultan of Turkey at Boston, duly recognized as such

TASIGI v. VAN DE CARR.
Opinion of the Court.

by the government of the United States; that the embezzlement was charged to have occurred on July 1, 1892; that he
had never been indicted by a grand jury for the commission
of any crime; that he was arrested while on a visit to New
York, where access was impossible to his books and papers to
vindicatp himself; and that the proceedings before the city
magistrate were without authority or jurisdiction because of
his consular office.
The writ was issued and a hearing had, and on the twelfth
day of March the District Court entered an order dismissing
the writ and remanding Tasigi to custody. From this order
an appeal was allowed to this court.
The contention of petitioner was that no court of the State
of Massachusetts had jurisdiction to entertain a criminal prosecution against him by reason of the matters specified in the
commitment, jurisdiction being vested, because of his official
position, exclusively in the Federal courts; but the conclusion
of the District Court rested on the ground that whatever implications in favor of exclusive Federal jurisdiction might be
claimed, they were in no way incompatible with the preliminary arrest by the magistrate for removal to the State where
the crimes charged against him were alleged to have been
committed, and where all questions as to the proper tribunal
for trial could be more properly heard and determined.
On the argument in this court, it appeared from a coinmunication from the Assistant Secretary of State, under date
of March 19, that Jasigi had been removed from his consular
office, and that all official connection between him and the
Turkish government had been severed, as the Department
of State had been officially informed by the Turkish minister
on the ninth of March.
Therefore when the order remimding Tasigi to the custody
of the state officer was entered, he was not holding a consular
office, and the supposed objection to his detention for extradition to Massachusetts did not exist.
As under § 761 of the Revised Statutes it is the duty of

the court, justice or judge granting the writ, on hearing, "to
dispose of the party as law and justice require," the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

at once arises whether the order of the District Court dismissing the writ should be reversed, and petitioner absolutely
discharged, because the objection existed when the writ issued,
although it did not when the order was entered, even if such
an objection were ever tenable, which we do not intend in the
slightest degree to intimate it could be.
If the application for the writ had been made on the twelfth
of March, it could not have been awarded, on the ground
alleged in this petition, and as, on that day, the petitioner
could not have been discharged on that ground, in accordance
with the principles of law and justice, we are unable to hold
that the order of the District Court was erroneous. Ex parte
JRoyall, 117 U. S. 241 ; Exparte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 201; Ex
parle . 2 illigan, 4 Wall. 2, 111.

In .Ex parte IKit, 111 U. S. 766, an application was made
for a writ of certiorari commanding the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia to certify to this court an indictment, and the proceedings thereunder, against titz in that
court, on the ground that when the indictment was filed and
when the offences charged thereunder were committed, he
was the diplomatic representative of the Swiss Confederation
duly accredited and recognized by the United States under
the title of Political Agent. It appeared that Hitz was for
many years the Consul General of the Swiss Confederation
within the United States, and was also accredited to the
United States by the same government as Political Agent.
On the 30th of May, 1881, he was requested by the Swiss
government to resign both these offices, and this he did on
the 15th of June. The indictment was filed on the 17th of
June, and on the 20th of June his resignations were accepted.
The writ of certiorari was denied.
In Nisimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651, the

writ of habeas corpus was sued out May 13, 1891, by a female
subject of the Emperor of Japan, detained at San Francisco
by a state inspector of immigration, with the approval of the
collector, for the reason that, under existing laws, she should
not be permitted to land in the United States. After the
issue of the writ, and before a hearing, and on May 14, one

HOOE v. JAMIESON.
Syllabus.

John L. Hatch was appointed United States inspector of
immigration at that port, who, on May 16, made the inspection and examination required by the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 551, which he reported to the collector, and, on May 18, he
intervened in opposition to the writ of habeas corpus
8, stating
his doings and insisting that under the act his finding and
decision were reviewable by the superintendent of immigration and the Secretary of the Treasury only. The Circuit
Court sustained the intervention and remanded petitioner,
and its order was affirmed on appeal by this court. It was
said by Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion, that: "A
writ of habeas corpus is not like an action to recover damages
for an unlawful arrest or commitment, but its object is to
ascertain whether the prisoner can legally be detained in
custody; and if sufficient ground for his detention by the government is shown, he is not to be discharged for defects in the
original arrest or commitment."
The proceeding here was a state proceeding in aid of a
prosecution for the violation of state laws, and under such
circumstances the courts of the United States may exercise a
discretion in determining the question of discharge. Cook v.
hlart, 146 U. S. 183.
And we think the case falls within the principle of the rule
laid down in- NishiniuraEkia v. United States.
Order aJfirmed.

HOOE v. JAMIESON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
WESTERN

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Submitted March 1,1897. -Decided
No. 374..

April 5, 1597.

A citizen of the District of Columbia cannot maintain an action against a
citizen of Wisconsin, on the ground of diverse citizenship, in a Circuit
Court of the United States In that State; even though a competent person be joined with him as co-plaintiff.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

