IN

RE ECKART, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

1n re ECKART, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 14. Original. Submitted March 22, 1897.-

Decided April 19, 1891.

When a state court has jurisdiction of an indictment for murder, and the
laws of the State divide that offence into three degrees and make it the
province of the jury to determine under which degree the case falls,
the conviction of the accused of murder in the first degree and sentence
accordingly, without a finding as to which degree he was guilty of, though
erroneous, is not a jurisdictional defect, remediable by writ of habeas
corpus.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rublee A. Cole for petitioner.
.Mr. W. H. Mylrea, Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin, opposing.
MR.

JLSTICE

WHrTi delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application for the allowance of a writ of habea8
corpus, to obtain the discharge of the petitioner from an alleged unlawful imprisonment in the Wisconsin state prison.
From the statements in the petition and return, it appears
that petitioner has been detained in custody since April 13,
1878, under a judgment of the Circuit Court of Jefferson County,
Wisconsin, entered upon a verdict of a jury finding him
"guilty," after trial had, upon an information which charged
Eckart with having "on the 13th day of December in the year
1877 at Jefferson County, State of Wisconsin, unlawfully, feloniously and of his malice aforethought killed and murdered
Charles Paterson, against the peace and dignity of the State
of Wisconsin." The ground relied upon to establish that the
imprisonment, under the judgment referred to, was unlawful
is that under the laws of Wisconsin murder is divided into
three degrees, the punishment varying according to the degree,
and that as the verdict in question failed to specify the degree
VOL. CLXVI-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of murder of which the accused was found guilty, the trial
court was without jurisdiction to pass sentence and judgment
upon the accused, and the deprivation of liberty under such
judgment is without due process of law.
It also appears from the statements in the petition and
answer to the rule that in September, 1893, Eckart unsuccessfully applied to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin for the
allowance- of a writ of habeas corpus, asserting in his petition
the same detention and the same grounds for his right to release as are relied upon in the present application, and that in
his petition to the Wisconsin court he specially set up that he
was restrained of his liberty "contrary to the Constitution of
the United States and laws enacted thereunder, and without
the due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to that instrument."
It has been held by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin that
under the statutes of that State an allegation of the commission of crime in language such as was employed in the information upon which Eckart was tried would justify a conviction
of murder in either the first, second or third degree, and it
has also been there held that the jury must find the degree in
their verdict, in order that the court may impose the proper
punishment. Ihogan v. State, 30 Wisconsin, 428, 434; Allen
v. State, 85 Wisconsin, 22; _La Tour v. State, 67 N. W. Rep. 1138.
In its decision refusing the writ applied for by Eckart, the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin held that while the conviction
under the sentence in question was erroneous, the error in passing sentence was not a jurisdictional defect and the judgment
was, therefore, not void. In this view we concur. The court
had jurisdiction of the offence charged and of the person of
the accused. The verdict clearly did not acquit him of the
crime with which he was charged, but found that he had committed an offence embraced within the accusation upon which
he was tried. It was within the jurisdiction of the trial judge
to pass upon the sutficiency of the verdict and to construe its
legal meaning, and if in so doing he erred, and held the verdict to be sufficiently certain to authorize the imposition of
punishment for the highest grade of the offence charged, it

IN

RE ECKART, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

was an error committed in the exercise of jurisdiction, and
one which does not present a jurisdictional defect, remediable
by the writ of habeas corpus. The case is analogous in principle to that of a trial and conviction upon an indictment, the
facts averred in which are asserted to be insufficient to constitute an offence against the statute claimed to have been violated. In this class of cases it has been held that a trial court
possessing general jurisdiction of the class of offences within
which is embraced the crime sought to be set forth in the indictment is possessed of authority to determine the sufficiency
of an indictment, and that in adjudging it to be valid and sufficient acts within its jurisdiction, and a conviction and judgment thereunder cannot be questioned on habeascorpus, because
of a lack of certainty or other defect in the statement in the
indictment of the facts averred to constitute a crime. In re
Coy, 127 U. S. 731, 756 - 758, and cases there cited.
The ruling in Exparte Belt, 159 U. S. 95, is also applicable.
There an application was presented for leave to file a petition
for a writ of habeas corpus directed to the superintendent of
the Albany county penitentiary, in the State of New York,
for the discharge of Belt from custody under a sentence of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. Belt had
been indicted for the crime of larceny. In the course of the
trial the record of a former conviction of larceny was introduced to establish that the offence for which the prisoner was
then upon trial was a second offence, which fact, if established,
subjected the accused to a greater punishment than would
otherwise be authorized. Objection was taken to the admission of the record, on the ground that it showed a waiver of
the right of trial by a jury on the part of the prisoner and a
trial and conviction by the court alone without a jury, a ,node
of procedure claimed to be in violation of the Constitution of
the United States, and rendering the subsequent proceedings
null and void. The objection was overruled, and Belt was
convicted and sentenced. The judgment being affirmed on
appeal, Belt made the application to this court referred to,
asking to be relieved from imprisonment under the alleged
void sentence and judgment. It was argued on his behalf

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that the constitutional requirement of trial by a jury in criminal cases could not be waived by the accused, though in pursuance of a statute authorizing such a waiver, and on the
assumption that the first conviction was necessarily void, the
second conviction predicated thereon was likewise a nullity.
Upon the authority, however, of Exparte Bigelow, 113 U. S.
328, it was held that the ground of application did not go to
the jurisdiction or authority of the trial court, but was allegation of mere error, which was not reviewable on habeas corpus,
citing on this latter proposition In re Schneider, 148 U. S. 162.
The case of Ex parte Bigelow determined that the action
of a trial court in overruling a plea of former jeopardy could
not be reviewed on habeas corpus. In the course of the
opinion, the court said (p. 330):
"The trial court had jurisdiction of the offence described in
the indictment,on which the prisoner was tried. It had jurisdiction of the prisoner, who was properly brought before the
court. It had jurisdiction to hear the charge and the evidence
against the prisoner. It had jurisdiction to hear and to decide
upon the defences offered by him. The matter now presented
was one of those defences. Whether it was a sufficient defence
was a matter of law on which that court must pass so far as it
was purely a question of law, and on which the jury, under the
instruction of the court, must pass, if we can suppose any of
the facts were such as required submission to the jury. If the
question had been one of former acquittal -a much stronger
case than this-the court would have had jurisdiction to
decide upon the record whether there had been a former
acquittal for the same offence, and if the identity of the
offence were in dispute it might be necessary on such a
plea to submit that question to the jury on the issue raised
by the plea. The same principle would apply to a plea of a
former conviction. Clearly in these cases the court not only
has jurisdiction to try and decide the question raised, but it
is its i'nperative duty to do so. If the court makes a mistake
on such trial it is error which may be corrected by the usual
modes of correcting such errors, but that the court had jurisdiction to decide upon the matter raised by the plea, both as

ZADIG v. BALDWIN.
Syllabus.

matter of law and of fact, cannot be doubted. . . . It may
be confessed that it is not always very easy to determine what
matters go to the jurisdiction of a court so as to make its action,
when erroneous, a nullity. But the general rule is that when
the court has jurisdiction by law of the offence charged, and
of the party who is so charged, its judgments are not nullities."
In the Belt case, this court, speaking through Mr. Chief
Justice Fuller, said (p. 99):
"Without in the least suggesting a doubt as to the efficacy,
value and importance of the system of trial by jury in criminal
as well as in civil actions, we are clearly of opinion that the
Supreme Court of the District had jurisdiction and authority
to determine the validity of the act which authorized the
waiver of a jury and to dispose of the question as to whether
the recprd of a conviction before a judge without a jury, where
the prisoner waived trial by jury according to statute, was legitimate proof of a first offence, and this being so, we cannot
review the action of that court and the Court of Appeals in
this particular on habeas corpus."
The case presented by the record is not within any of the
exceptions to the general rule, that when a court has jurisdiction by law of the offence charged, and of the party who
is so charged, its judgments are not nullities which can be
collaterally attacked. The writ of habeas corpus cannot be
made to perform the functions of a writ of error. United
States v. Pridgeon, 153 U. S. 48. It follows that
The rule must be dischargedand the writ refused.

ZADIG v..BALDWIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT
No. 222.

OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued and submitted March 19, 1897.-Decided

April 19, 1897.

There was printed in the record, as filed in this court, what purported to be
an extract from the closing brief of counsel presented to the Supreme
Court of the State, in which a Federal question was discussed, and it
was asserted orally at the bar here, that in the argument made in the

