OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

but denied, that the former had any just demand against him.
But Whitney forbore to assert the rights which he now asserts, and although having abundant opportunity to do so,
and having, if his present claims are just, every reason for
promptness and diligence, he nevertheless slept upon his
rights and made no demand upon Lawrence until disease
had so far deprived the latter of his reason and faculties
that he could not sufficiently comprehend any matter of
business submitted to him. Under the peculiar circumstances of this case, the court below rightly held that the
plaintiff's laches cut him off from any relief in equity. Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 95; Hayward v. Vational Bank,
96 U. S. 611, 617; Godden v. Eimnmell, 99 U. S. 201 ; Landsdale v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391; Speidel v. Henrici,120 U. S. 377;
Richards v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183, 188; Mac/call v. Casilear,
137 U. S. 556, 566 ; Kam mond v. flopkins, 143 U.. S.. 224, 250,
274. In this view, it is unnecessary to consider whether the
plaintiff's causes of action were barred by the statute of
limitation.
The judgment is
A4ffirmed.

The case Qf Wood v. Fox, Surviving Executor of Lawrence, No.
56, on appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah,
was argued with No. 68 by the same counsel, and depends upon the
same facts as appear in the above case, and for the reasons stated
in the opinion in that case the judgment is
Affirmed.

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v.- BUTLER COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE
No. 221.

SUPREME COURT
Argued March 19, 1897.

OF THE STATE

OF MISSOURI.

Decided April 19, 1697.

This court cannot review the final judgment of the highest court of a State
even if it denied some title, right, privilege or immunity of the unsuccessful party, unless it appear from the record that such title, right, privilege
qr immunity was "specially set up or claimed" in the state court as be-

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v. BUTLER COUNTY.

649

Opinion of the Court.
longing to such party under the Constitution or some treaty, statute,
commission or authority of the United States. Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
The words "specially set up or claimed" in that section imply that if a
party in a suit in a state court intends to invoke for the protection of
his rights the Constitution of the United States or some treaty, statute,
commission or authority of the United States, he must so declare; and
unless he does so declare, " specially," that is, unmistakably, this court
is without authority to reexamine the final judgment of the state court.
This statutory requirement is not met if such declaration is so general
in its character that the purpose of the party to assert a Federal right
is left to mere inference.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Isaac It.Lionberger for plaintiffs in error.
-1r. Johtn F. Dillon and Mr. Frank X. Estes for defendant
in error. .Mr. Winslow S. Pierce, Mr. Harry Hubbard and
.Mr.
h7enry 1. Pillipswere on their briefs.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review a final judgment of
the Supreme Court of Missouri reversing a judgment of the
Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis, Missouri, setting aside
and declaring to be null and void certain conveyances of lands
in Butler County, Missouri, and quieting the title thereto of
the present plaintiffs in error.
.Itis contended on behalf of the defendants in error, who
were defendants below, that, under the statutes regulating the
jurisdiction of this court, we have no authority to reexamine
that judgment.
It appears from the petition that the lands in controversy
were part of the lands granted to Missouri by the swaimp-land
act of September. 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84, and were subsequently, in 1857, patented by the State to the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, a Missouri corporation, in payment of
a subscription to the capital stock of that company by the
county of Butler, Missouri, which subscription was made under
the authority of the State; that in payment of certain bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

issued by it, the railroad company, on the 23d of May, 1857,
conveyed the lands in question, with other lands, to John
Moore, John Wilson and A. G. Waterman, as trustees; that
in 1871 Chouteau, having become the owner of the greater
portion of such bonds, brought suit in the Circuit Court of Mississippi County, Missouri, for the foreclosure of the above deed
of trust, in which suit there was a decree for the defendants;
that such decree was reversed by the Supreme Court of Missouri, and a decree of foreclosure directed to be entered; that
the lands were accordingly sold by a commissioner, Chouteau
becoming the purchaser; and that afterwards, on the 19th day
of November, 1886, Chouteau conveyed the same, with other
lands, to the plaintiffs in error.
The petition also alleged that the county of Butler, November 7, 1866, filed in the Circuit Court of Butler County its petition against the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company and
Moore, Wilson and Waterman, trustees as aforesaid, for the
purpose of cancelling and setting aside the patent from the
State to the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, as well as
the deed of trust from the railroad company to Moore, Wilson
and Waterman, trustees; that in that suit "service was attempted to be had by publication, the plaintiffs in said cause
alleging that the said Moore, Waterman and Wilson were nonresidents of the State of Missouri; that in the said proceeding
the said Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company were brought in,
as was pretended, by personal service; but your complainants
herein here aver, charge and show the fact to be that the service in said cause, the pretended appearance of the defendants
by their attorney and in their own proper persons, was, in fact,
a fraud and deception imposed upon the Circuit Court trying
said cause; that in truth and in fact the said Waterman, previous to the bringing of said action in said Circuit Court, and
said Moore, soon after the bringing of said action and before
service upon him therein had been obtained, had departed this
life, and their successors in said trust and as trustees had been
appointed in pursuance to the provisions of the said deed of
trust ; that in consequence of their said deaths and the appointment of their successors as such trustees, as aforesaid, no service

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v. BUTLER COUNTY.

651

Opinion of the Court.

was had in said cause, the new trustees were not made parties,
were not served with process and had no notice of proceedings, although necessary and proper parties. The other defendant in said cause, viz., the said Cairo and Fulton Railroad
Company, was not a necessary or proper party, as by the foreclosure of the state lien on said railroad under what is known
as the sell-out act and the purchase of said railroad under said
sale the said company, before the commencement of said suit,
was dissolved and had ceased to exist and could not legally be
made a party to said proceedings; that the only party defendAut to said proceedings that was in fact present or pretending to make a defence in said action was Green L. Poplin, who
had at one time been the president of the said railroad company, but long previous to the bringing of said suit had ceased
to be connected with the said Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company in any capacity whatever, but was in fact acting in collusion with the attorneys and agents of said Butler County to
aid said Butler County and its attorneys to avoid and disregard
their said contract with the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company. And these complainants aver and charge the fact to
be that notwithstanding the fact that the said Circuit Court
proceeded to find the issues in said case for the said county of
Butler, and to decree that the said deed from the State of Missouri to the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company and the
deed of trust from said railroad company to the said Moore,
Waterman and Wilson be cancelled, set aside and for naught
held, and that the interest of the defendants therein be divested
out of them and invested in said county of Butler, that all said
pretended proceedings were null, void and of no effect whatever on account of the collusion of the parties thereto, and
because the parties holding the title under said deed of trust
in trust for the holders of the bonds of the said Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company were not parties to said suit and did
not appear thereto, either in person or by attorneys. And because neither the said bondholders nor their assigns were in
court by service of process or otherwise."
It was further alleged that in the year 1863 a number of
judgments were obtained in the Circuit Courts of Mississippi

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

County, Missouri, against the railroad company, and part of
the lands in controversy were sold under execution, various
persons becoming the purchasers and receiving conveyances.
The petition sets out various sales of lands embraced in the
above deed of trust, and makes defendants numerous parties
who were in possession claiming title, including the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railroad Company. The petition avers that in the several suits in the Butler Circuit Court
the railroad company "was the only defendant; neither said
trustee or the bondholders were made parties to said suits,
neither did they in any way have notice thereof or appear
therein by attorney or otherwise, and whatever rights said
judgment creditors acquired by reason of their said several
judgments, and whatever title the said purchaser at said
sheriff's sale made under said judgments acquired, were subject
and subservient to the said first deed and the rights of the
bondholders of said Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company.
The purchasers at said foreclosure proceeding under the decree of the Supreme Court took a 'paramount and superior
title to all said parties and purchasers at said sheriff's sale;
that the said sheriff's deeds made to the purchasers at said
execution sales conveyed no title to the said purchaser as
against the prior lien of the said trustees under said trust
deed," etc.
In the court of original jurisdiction the issues were found
for the plaintiffs. Some of the defendants moved to set aside
the finding and judgment upon these general grounds: Because the court erred in admitting improper, illegal, irrelevant
and incompetent evidence and in rejecting proper, legal, relevant and competent evidence; in refusing to sustain defendants'
demurrer to the plaintiffs' evidence offered at the close of plaintiffs' case; in finding the issues in favor of the plaintiffs and in
rendering a decree in their favor; and because the decree was
against the weight of the evidence. The motion for a new
trial was overruled, and the cause was carried to the Supreme
Court of Missouri upon the appeal of the county of Butler and
others. By the latter court the judgment was reversed, and
the cause remanded to the Circuit Court of the city of St.

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v. BUTLER COUNTY.

653

Opinion of the Court.

Louis with instructions to enter a final decree dismissing the
bill.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri is reported
in 121 Missouri, 614.
We have made a full statement of the case because of the
earnest contention of the plaintiffs in error that this court has
authority to refxamine the final judgment of the Supreme
Court of Missouri.
This court may refxamine the final judgment of the highest court of a State when the validity of a treaty or statute of
or an authority exercised under the United States is "drawn
in question" and the decision is against its validity, or when
the validity of a statute of or an authority exercised undr
any State is "drawn in question" on the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United
States, and the decision is in favor of its validity. But it
cannot review such final judgment, even if it denied some title,
right, privilege or immunity of the unsuccessful party, unless
it appear from the record that such title, right, privilege or
immunity Was "specially set up or claimed" in the state
court as belonging to such party, under the Constitution:or
some treaty, statute, commission or authority of the United
States. Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
Looking into the record we do not find that any reference
was made in the court of original jurisdiction to the Constitution of the United States. Nor can it be inferred from the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri that that court was
informed by the contention of the parties that any Federal
right, privilege or immunity was intended to be asserted.
For aught that appears the state court proceeded in its determination of the cause without any thought that it was
expected to decide a Federal question.
The Supreme Court of Missouri properly said that only two
questions were presented by the record for its determination:
"First. Were the subscriptions by the county courts (county
and district) of Butler County to the stock of the Cairo and
Fulton Railroad Company, and the conveyance of the swamp
lands of that county to said railroad in satisfaction of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court..

subscriptions, authorized by law? Second. Ought the decree
of the Circuit Court of Butler County annulling the conveyance of said lands to be set aside for the reasons urged by the
plaintiffs, to wit, first, because procured by fraud, and, second,
because two of the defendants named in it were dead at the
time of its rendition, and the railroad company a dissolved
corporation?"
Whether the subscriptions by the county court of Butler
County to the stock of the railroad company and the conveyance to that company were valid, and whether the decree
which the plaintiffs sought to have declared void was obtained
by fraud, were questions of local law or practice in respect of
which the judgment of the state court was final.
The only remaining question was not otherwise raised than
by the general allegation that the decree was rendered against
dead persons as well as in the absence of necessary parties
who had no notice of the suit, and therefore no opportunity to
be heard in vindication of their rights. Do such general
allegations meet the statutory requirement that the final
judgment of a state court may be reexamined here if it denies
some title, right, privilege or immunity "specially set up or
claimed" under the Constitution or authority of the United
States? We think not. The specific contention now is that
the decree of the Butler County Circuit Court in the suit instituted by the county of Butler was not consistent with the due
process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. But can it be said that
the plaintiffs specially set up or claimed the protection of that
amendment against the operation of that decree by simply
averring - without referring to the Constitution or even
adopting its phraseology -that the decree was passed against
deceased persons as well as in the absence of necessary or
indispensable parties?
This question 'must receive a negative answer, if due effect
be given to the words "specially set up or claimed" in section
709 of the Revised Statutes. These words were in the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act of- 1789 (1 Stat. 85), and
were inserted in order that the revisory power of this court

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v. BUTLER COUNTY.

655

Opinion of the Court.

should not extend to rights denied by the final judgment of
the highest court of a State, unless the party claiming such
rights plainly and distinctly indicated, before the state court
disposed of the case, that they were claimed under the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States. The words
"specially set up or claimed "'imply that if a party intends to
invoke for the protection of his rights the Constitution of the
United States or some treaty, statute, commission or authority
of the United States, he must so declare; and unless he does
so declare "specially," that is, unmistakably, this court is
without authority to reexamine the final judgment of the
state court: This statutory requirement is not met if such
declaration is so general in its character that the purpose of
the party to assert a Federal right is left to mere inference.
It is the settled doctrine of this court that the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States must appear affirinatively from the record, and that it is not sufficient that it may
be inferred argumentatively from the facts stated. Hence, the
averment that a party resides in a particular State' does not
import that he is a citizen of that State. Brown v. Keene, 8
Pet. 112, 115; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646, 649. Upon
like grounds the jurisdiction of this court to fexamine the
final judgment of a state court cannot arise from mere inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive as
to place it beyond question that the party bringing a case
here from such court intended to assert a Federal right.
As the argument at the bar indicated some misapprehension
as to our decisions upon this subject, it will be appropriate to
refer to some of them.
In JMaxwell v. Newbold, 18 How. 511, 516, which was a writ
of error to the Supreme Court of Michigan, this' court, speaking by Chief Justice Taney, and referring to the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and the interpretation
placed upon it in Crowell v. Pcandell, 10 Pet. 368, said:
"Applying this principle to the case before us, the writ of
error cannot be maintained. The questions raised and decided
in the state circuit court point altogether for their solution to
the laws of the State, and make no reference whatever to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Constitution or laws of the United States. Undoubtedly, this
(lid not preclude the plaintiffs in error from raising the point
in the Supreme Court of the State, if it was involved in tile
case as presented to that court. And whether a writ of error
from this court will lie or not, depends upon the questions
raised and decided in that court. But neither of the questions
made there by the errors assigned refer in any manner to the
Constitution or laws of the United States, except the third,
and the language of that is too general and indefinite to come
within the provisions of the act of Congress, or the decisions of
this court. It alleges that the charge of thc court was against,
and in conflict with, the Constitution and laws of the United
States. But what right did he claim under the Constitution
of the United States which was denied him by the state court?
Under what clause of the Constitution did he make his claim ?
And what right did he claim under an act of Congress? And
under what act, in the wide range of our statutes, did he claim
it? The record does'not show; nor can this court undertake
to determine that the question as to the faith and, credit due
to the record and judicial proceedings in Ohio was made or
determined in the state court, or that that court ever gave
any opinion on the question. For aught that appears in the
record, some other clause in the Constitution, or some law of
Congress may have been relied on, and the mind of the court
never called to the clause of the Constitution now assigned as
error in this court." After stating the grounds upon which
the decision in Lawler v. Walker, 14 How. 149, was placed,
the court proceeded: "So in the case before us,the clause in the
Constitution and the law of Congress should have been specifled by the plaintiffs in error in the state court, in order that
this court might see what was the right claimed by them, and
whether it was denied to them by the decision of the state
court."
In loyt v. Shelden, 1 Black, 518, 521, a writ of error to
review the final judgment of a New York court, it was contended that full faith and credit were not given by that court,
to certain legislative enactments and judicial proceedings in
the courts of New Jersey, as required by the Constitution of

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v. BUTLER COUNTY.

657

Opinion of the Court.

the United States. This court, again speaking by Chief Justice
Taney, said : "But, in order to give this court the power to
revise the judgment of the state court on that ground, it
must appear upon the transcript, filed by the plaintiff in error,
that the point on which he relies was made in the New York
court, and decided against him; and that this section of the
Constitution was brought to the notice of the state court,
and the right which he now claims here claimed under it.
The rule upon this subject is clearly and fully stated in 18
How. 511, 515, .Maxwell v. Newbold, as well as in many other
cases to which it is unnecessary to refer. This provision of
the Constitution is not referred to in the plaintiff's bill of
complaint in the state court, nor in any of the proceedings
there had. It is true, he set out the act of the legislature of
New Jersey, the proceedings and decree of the chancery court
of that State under it, and the sale of the property in dispute
by the authority of the court, which, he alleges, transferred
the title to the vendee, under whom he claims, and charges
that the assignment set up by the defendants was fraudulent
and void, for the reasons stated in his bill. But all of the
matters put in issue by the bill and answers, and decided by
the state court, were questions which depended for their decision upon principles of law and equity, as recognized and
administered in the State of New York, and without reference
to the construction or effect of any provision in the Constitu.tion, or any act of Congress. This court has no appellate
power over the judgment of a state court pronounced in such
a controversy, {nd this writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction."
If there has been any modification of the views expressed
in the two cases just cited, it has been only in the particular
that it is not always necessary to refer to the precise words
or to the particular section of the Constitution, under which
some right, title, privilege or immunity is claimed, and that it
is sufficient if it appears affirmatively from the record that a
right, title, privilege or immunity is specially set up or claimed
under that instrument or under the authority of the United
States.
VOL. CLxvi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The question was again examined in Sayward v. Denny, 158
U. S. 180, 183, 184, 186. It was stated in that case, the Chief
Justice delivering the opinion of the court, that certain propositions must be regarded as settled, among which were that
"the title, right, privilege or immunity must be specially set
up and claimed at the proper time and in the proper way,"
and that "the right on which the party relies must have been
called to the attention of the court, in some proper way, and
the decision of the court must have been against the right
claimed" -citing in support of the first of these propositions
Jliller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535, and Morrison v. Watson, 154
U. S. 111, 115, and in support of the second proposition the
above cases of IToyt v. Skeldeu and Alaxwell v. Newbold. The
Chief Justice said: " The contention is that the result of the
rulings and decisions of the trial court in these respects, as
affirmed by the Supreme Court, was to hold plaintiff in error
conclusively bound by the judgment rendered against Crawford in an action 'in which he was not a party and of which
he had no notice'; and that this was in effect to deprive him
of his property without due process of law, or to deny him
the equal protection of the laws, and amounted to a decision
adverse to the right, privilege or immunity of plaintiff in error
under the Constitution of being protected from such deprivation or denial. But it nowhere affirmatively appears from the
record that such a right was set up or claimed in the trial
court when the demurrer to the complaint was overruled, or
evidence admitted or excluded, or instructions given or refused,'or in the Supreme Court in disposing of the rulings
below. . . . We are not called on to revise these views of
the principles of general law considered applicable to the case
in hand. It is enough that there is nothing in the record to
'indicate that the state courts were led to suppose that plaintiff in error claimed protection under the Constitution of the
United States from the several rulings, or to suspect that each
ruling as made involved a decision against a right specially
set up under that instrument."
In harmony with these views we said at the present term in
Chicago & Northwestern Railway Co. v. Chicago, 164 U. S.

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v. BUTLER COUNTY.

659

Opinion of the Court.

454, 457: "It is assigned in this court for error that the judg
ment of the court of original jurisdiction had the effect to deprive the railroad company of its property without due process
of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. But the record does not
show that the company specially set up or claimed in the
state courts or either of them any right under the Constitution of the United States. It does not appear that the attention even of the trial court was called to the fact that the
company, in any form or for any purpose, invoked the protection of that instrument. Nor does it appear from the
record that any Federal right was specially set up or claimed
in the Supreme Court of the State."
Our attention is called by the plaintiffs in error to Armstrong v. Athens County Treasurer,16 Pet. 281 ; Bridge Proprietors v. Hlobokeen, 1 Wall. 116, 140; Chicago Ins. Co. v.
fNeedles, 113 U. S. 574, and Des Moines Navigation Co. v.
Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S.552, as establishing the jurisdiction of this court in the present case. Interpreting the
general language in the opinions in some of these cases in
the light of the facts presented by them, it is clear that no one
of them supports our jurisdiction to reexamine the judgment
now before us.
In Armstrong v. Treasurer our jurisdiction
was maintained
upon the ground that the state court certified" on the record"
that the validity of a statute of Ohio was drawn in question,
on the ground of its repugnancy to the Constitution of the
United States, and that the decision was against the validity
of the statute. In Bridge Proprietorsv. iobokeen Co. the court
said that the true and rational rule was that "the court must be
able to see clearly, from the i4hole record, that a certain provision of the Constitution or act of Congress was relied on by
the party who brings the writ of error, and that the right thus
claimed by him was denied." It was held in that case that as
the record showed that the state court had upheld a statute
of New Jersey whose validity had been questioned as impairing the obligation of a contract, and that as, under the pleadings, it could not have made the final judgment complained of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

without sustaining the validity of that act, this court had jurisdiction to reexamine that judgment. In Chicago -Life Ins. Co.
v. Needles it was said that, while the Supreme Court of Illinois
did not, in terms, pass upon the claim that the statutes there
in question were in derogation of rights hnd privileges secured
by the Constitution of the United States, our jurisdiction could
not be doubted, for the reason that the final judgment necessarily involved an adjudication of that claim. That language
was used in a case in which it appeared from the record that
the Federal right was specially set up and claimed in the inferior state court and reasserted in the Supreme Court of the
State. In Des fMoines Navigation Co. v. Iowa lonestead Co.
the Federal right was specially set up, because it was claimed
under a decree or judgment of a court of the United States,
the validity of which was disputed on the ground that the
courts of the United States had no jurisdiction of the suit in
which it was rendered, and, therefore, no legal power or authority in the premises. It is manifest that none of these
cases conflict with the, views herein expressed.
Without further references to adjudged cases, we are of
opinion that the general allegation or claim, in different
forms, that the decree of the Butler County Circuit Court was
passed against some persons who were at the time dead, and
against others who were necessary parties but who had no
notice of the proceedings, does not, within the meaning of section 709 of the Revised Statutes, specially set up a right or
immunity under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, forbidding a State to deprive any
person of his property without due process of law. If it
appeared that the Supreme Court of the State regarded these
general allegations as asserting such Federal right or immunity, and denied the claim so asserted, our jurisdiction could
be sustained. But it does not so appear.
We are of opinion that this court is without jurisdiction to
review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri.
Writ of error dismissed.

