WHITNEY v. FOX.
Syllabus.

the Battp case involved no inquiry as to the respective rights
of the railroad company under the act of 1864, and of parties
making applications in due form prior to the definite location
of its road to purchase lands as mineral lands that were within
the exterior lines of its general route. Mr. Justice Field
delivered the opinion in the Buttz case, and, speaking for the
court in Barden. v. Northern, Pacific Railroad Comnany,
above cited, stated that the grant in that act excepted the
privilege of exploring for mineral lands.
For the reasons stated, we adjudge that the lands in question were excluded from the grant of 1864 by reason of the
pendency of record, at the time of the definite location of
the plaintiff's road, of applications to purchase them as mineral lands, such applications being in the form prescribed by
the acts of Congress that related to such lands, and undetermined when the company filed its map of definite location.
The judgment below is
Afffirmed.

WHITNEY v. FOX.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 6S.

Argued March 3, 5, 1897. -Decided

April 19, 1897.

It is the ordinary rule to accept the interpretation given to a statute by the
courts of the country by which it was originally adopted; but the rule is not
an absolute one to be followed under all circumstances. In this case the
court accepts the construction given by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah to a statute of that Territory disqualifying certain persons
as witnesses, rather than the construction placed upon a like statute by
the Supreme Court of California, although the Utah statute was apparently taken from the statute of California.
Equity will sometimes refuse relief where a shorter time than that prescribed by the statute of limitations has elapsed without suit. It ought
always to do so where, as in this case, the delay in the assertion of rights
is not adequately explained, and such circumstances have intervened in
the condition of the adverse party as to render it unjust to him or to his
estate that a court of equity should assist the plaintiff. In this case the

plaintiff, seeking the aid of equity, forbore for an unreasonably long time

OCTOBER TERI, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
to assert his rights, and made no demand upon his adversary until disease had so far deprived the latter of his reason and faculties that he
could not comprehend any matter of business submitted to him. His
right to ask the aid of a court of equity wvas held to have been lost under
the peculiar circumstances of the case.

THIs is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah, affirming a judgment in favor of the
defendant in an action brought in the year 1889 in the District
Court of the Third District of that Territory by the appellant
Whitney against the executors of Joab Lawrence, deceased.
The object of the suit was to establish the existence of a
trust in his favor in certain real estate and stock, and to have
an accounting in respect of the accumulations or profits of
such property.
The case made by the findings of fact is substantially as
follows:
On and ppior to October 7, 1872, the plaintiff was the owner
of 250 shares, and Joab Lawrence, deceased, was the owner of
more than 1500 shares, of the capital stock of the Eureka
Mining Company of Utah. Prior to that date the plaintiff
delivered to Lawrence certificates representing his 250 shares
of stock, to be disposed of by Lawrence together with the
latter's own stock for their joint benefit.
At the above date Lawrence sold and disposed of to E. B.
Ward of Detroit 1500 shares of his own stock and the plaintiff's
250 shares, together with 250 shares belonging to W. H. Wood.
In part consideration for the sale, Lawrence received real
estate in Detroit consisting of three city lots, and a building
thereon, commonly known as the Mansion House, and took a
deed therefor in his individual name. He also received in
consideration of such sale a large amount of cash in hand,
besides other property. Of the cash so received, $23,587.50
was applied-by him in taking up an indebtedness against the
Eureka Mining Company. The plaintiff being the owner of
one eighth of the total number of shares of stock sold to Ward
by Lawrence, the latter received the above real estate and the
$23,587.50 in trust for the plaintiff to the extent of an undivided
one eigith interest. The balanceof the consideration received

WHITNEY v. FOX,
Statement of the Case.

by Lawrence from the sale of the stock was distributed immediately after such sale among himself, plaintiff and Wood,
according to their respective interests.
In recognition of the above trust Lawrence executed and
delivered to the plaintiff the declaration of trust described in
the complaint, which was in these words:
"SALT LAKE CITY, NAov. 9th, 1872.
"1J. N. WHITNEY:
"This is to certify that you are entitled to one-eighth interest
in the real estate, mining and rolling-mill stocks, and in the
$23,587.50 of which the Eureka Mining Company of Utah are
indebted to me, of the property acquired by me of E. B. Ward,
of Detroit, Michigan, October 7th, less the farm of 160 acres,
which was given to A. A. Griffith. I have also received of
you 20 shares of Eureka stock, your one-eighth of the 160
shares which was given to Messrs. Grilfith and Mayhue.
JOAB LAWRENCE."

On November 9, 1S72, the Eureka Mining Company of Utah
executed to Theodore M. Tracy, trustee, a mortgage to secure
the payment of $43,587.50, Tracy taking and holding the
mortgage as trustee for Lawrence, $23,587.50 of that sum
representing the indebtedness of the Eureka Mining Company
of Utah taken up by Lawrence, as above stated, with a portion
of the proceeds of the sale of stock made to Ward, the remaining $20,000 representing an indebtedness due from the Eureka
Mining Company of Utah to Lawrence individually. The
mortgage was not to secure in whole or in part any indebtedness due from the company to the plaintiff or to Wood on
account of services rendered by them or either of them to it.
Afterwards, and prior to August 26, 1874, the mortgage was
assigned by Tracy to Lawrence.
Subsequently Lawrence instituted proceedings to foreclose
the mortgage, and did foreclose the equity of redemption on
the property therein described, which included the mining
property of the Eureka Mining Company of Utah. The
decree of foreclosure was entered on July 27, 1876, and there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

after a deed of the property was duly executed to Lawrence
by the United States marshal.
At the time of the foreclosure a new corporation, called the
Eureka Hill Mining Company, with a capital stock of 10,000
shares, had been organized under and by virtue of the laws of
the Territory of Utah, and had succeeded to the Eureka
Mining Company of Utah.
On March 13, 1877, Lawrence sold and conveyed to the
Eureka Hill Mining Company all his right, title and interest
in and to the premises and all that he had acquired under the
above mortgage and foreclosure, and in part consideration
therefor received 30 per cent of the capital stock of that
company, amounting to 3000 shares. He took these shares
in his own name individually, and so held and retained them
until his death, which took place December 28, 1888, claiming
and receiving the dividends thereon, and in all respects holding and treating both the stock and dividends as his own
property; nor did he at any time recognize any right or
interest of the plaintiff in and to the same. The amount of
dividends received on the stock at the commencement of this
action amounted to $94 per share, and at the time of the
hearing of the case to $124 per share.
On September 27, 1875, Lawrence wrote to Wood the following letter:
"WM. H. WOOD, Esq. - Dear Sit': I am in receipt of yours.
.Hempstead advises me that the foreclosure suit will come up
probably in October term, say about the last of the 'month.
Your interest in the mortgage is one-eighth of $25,000, $3125.
The administrators in the Ward estate have given Mr. Romeyn
notice of, the intention to amend their complaint, notwithstanding the demurrer to the complaint was sustained and the
injunction was removed as against me. I have been spending
a great deal of money and time in endeavoring to protect the
Detroit property. I now intend going to Salt Lake early in
the month. I wish you would at once inform mewhen you
will probably be ready to go West, or will be in Salt Lake.
JoAB LAWRENCE."
"Yours, &c.,

WHITNEY v. FOX.
Statement of the Case.

And on December 26, 1875, Lawrence also wrote Wood as
follows:
"Mr. Romeyn informs me under date of the 16th inst. that
the suit of Ward against Lawrence, Whitney and Wood has
been discontinued, the receiver discharged and the property
placed in my possession. The entire rents have been used up,
only $317 to balance, which was paid to Romeyn.
R
"Yours, &c.,
LAWRENCE.
"
After December 26, 1875, and until April 6, 1888, the plaintiff at no time claimed or demanded of Lawrence any portion
of the mortgage property or its proceeds, or any dividends
received upon it, and Lawrence never recogniied or admitted
that he had any interest in the same.
On July 18, 1876, Wood wrote the plaintiff a letter, in which,
among other things, he said: "When in Boston I go to the
'Silver Islet' office, and found the reports from the mine good,
but no sales of any account. I will keep you posted on it, and
ifa chance does cone will get you out and myself. I met
Hill (of the Winnemucca) in Phil'd. How are things in Utah ?
and does Lawrence and you get along?
You know you and
myself have about $17,000 of our money in the mortgage,
beside our portion of the Detroit R. E., and if necessary,
have some money left to present my claim in court for a fair
and honest adjustment. It seems to me that we should commence and claim our rights very soon, by suit, if in no other
way -all I wish is what is justly due me."
On March 1, 1880, Wood also wrote Whitney as follows:
"SAN FRANCISCO, March
"MR.

1, 1880.

JOHN N. WHITNEY.

"Dear Sir: Yours came to hand some time since and fully
noted. What course is the best to take with Lawrence to
bring him to a settlement? Will the law work in this case this
late day? Our claim may be good upon the Eureka in case
he should wish to sell, as I have his letter saying I was interested one-eighth in the mortgage and in the Detroit propVOL. CLXvi--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

erty. I think it is time something should be done, and done
promptly and fearlessly, and a full exposure made if necessary.
I am satisfied the mine cannot be sold if our claim is put ia
the right shape. I think any one can see it and think we can
claim our portion of his receipts in law. Drop me a line at
once, as I now intend to start for the East and home in about
two weeks, and :shall stop at Salt Lake City if it may be best;
find out what he intends to do. I mean Lawrence. No other
way but to take the bull by the horns; I fear him not. I
have closed in one to-day and he gave down his milk and
came to time.
"Yours in haste,
WM. II. WOOD."
This °letter was received by Whitney in due course of n'iail,
and was produced by him at the trial in pursuance of a notice.
The plaintiff had actual knowledge of the conveyance to the
Eureka Hill Mining Company at the time it was made, as well
as of the terms on which it was made, and knew as early as
March, 1880, that Lawrence denied and repudiated any alleged
interest or claim of his in or to any part of the 3000 shares of
stock, or in the dividends that had been declared and paid
upon such stock, or in any of the property mentioned in the
complaint. Lawrence had received in part consideration of
the conveyance to the Eureka Hill Mining Company, under
date of March 13, 1877, in addition to the 3000 shares of stock,
a quartz mill, and as early as the summer of 1877 the plaintiff
knew that he had sold and disposed of the machinery of the
mill, and was informed of the sale by Lawrence in person, but
plaintiff did not then nor afterwards make any demand upon
Lawrence or his representatives for any part or portion of the
proceeds of that sale, nor make any inquiry as to the amount
realized by him therefrom, although ignorant of its terms.
As early as 1881 the plaintiff knew that the Eureka Hill Mining Company had declared and paid a dividend of one dollar
per share upon all of its capital stock, and as early as November, 1885, he had actual knowledge that that company had
theretofore declared and paid dividends upon its capital stock
aggregating $54 per share, and that Lawrence had received

WHITNEY v. FOX.
Statement of the Case.

in dividends that amount per share on each and all of the 3000
shares of stock; but he never at any time prior to April 6,
1888, made any demand upon or request of Lawrence for any
part or portion of the proceeds of such dividend.
From April, 1877, until some time in 1885 Lawrence resided
in Salt Lake City continuously, and was rarely absent therefrom, and when absent it was only for brief periods. He returned to that city in October, 1885, and remained there until
February 10, 1886. On November 1, 1886, he returned again,
remaining continuously in the city until January 25, 1887.
Almost weekly during the years 1877, 1878, 1879, 1880, 1881
and 1882 the plaintiff met Lawrence in that city and conversed
with him, and also met him there frequently in 1883 and 1884;
and in November or December, 1885, after he had received
actual knowledge of the receipt by Lawrence of the dividend
of $54 per share on the 3000 shares of stock, he met and conversed with Lawrence in Salt Lake City, but made no demand
on or request of him for any part of such dividend.
During the latter part of the year 1887 the mind and
memory of Lawrence became so impaired by disease that it
was not possible for him to attend to ordinary business matters, and from that time to his death this impairment of his
faculties daily increased, so that from the first of the year 1888
until his decease he was unable to comprehend any matter of
business submitted to him.
On April 6, 1888, the plaintiff, knowing that for many
months prior to that date Lawrence had been deprived of his
reason and mental faculties, made for the first time a formal
demand on him for an accounting as to his alleged interest in
the stock, real estate and rents described in his complaint.
As conclusions of law from the foregoing facts the court
found and decided:
That Lawrence was at the time of his death the owner, free
from any and all trusts in favor of the plaintiff, of the property, both real and personal, described in the complaint;
That so far as it was sought to establish a trust in favor of
the plaintiff in the real estate mentioned in the complaint, and
to obtain an accounting of the rents, issues and profits thereof,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the cause of action was barred by the provisions of section 180
of the Code of Civil Procedure of UtahTerritory;
That the action, so far as it sought to establish a trust in
favor of plaintiff in any portion of the 3000 shares of the
capital stock of the Eureka Hill Mining Company, and to
obtain a judgment decreeing plaintiff to be the equitable
owner of part of those shares, or to any portions of the dividends declared and paid thereon, was barred by the provisions
of section 201 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Utah Territory;
That the plaintiff had by his laches and inexcusable neglect
and delay barred and precluded himself of and from any relief; and
That the plaintiff should have or take nothing by his suit,
and the defendants should have and recover of and from the
plaintiff their costs to be taxed.
In accordance with these conclusions of law, it was adjudged
that the plaintiff take nothing by his suit.
Mir. Arthur Brown for appellant. Mr. J. G. Sutherland was
on his brief.
Mr. Jeremiah .M.Wilson, for appellee.
Jr., was on his brief.

Mr. A. A. Ioehling,

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
At the hearing of this cause in the inferior territorial court,
the first testimony offered in plaintiff's behalf was his own
deposition, taken in a suit in the Supreme Court of New York,
wherein he and Wood were plaintiffs and Joab Lawrence,
then living, was the defendant- that case being substantially
for the same cause of action presented in this case. The court
ruled that Whitney's deposition could not be received except
for the purpose of impeaching him, nor was his evidence in
the former action admissible, he being present in court and
orally testifying in this suit. This action of the court is

WHITNEY v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

assigned for error. But as the deposition was not made a part
of and is not in the record, we cannot say that its exclusion
was prejudicial to the rights of the plaintiff. Amendment of
21st Rule, 14 Wall. xii; Buckstaff v. Russell, 151 U. S. 626,
636 ; Shauer v. Alterton, 151 U. S. 607.
Whitney testified in this action on his own behalf, but the
court ruled that his testimony as to any matter of fact occurring before the death of Lawrence and equally within the
knowledge of both could not be received in his own behalf.
Was this error? Among those who are disqualified by the
statutes of Utah from being witnesses are "parties or assignors
of parties to an action or proceeding, or persons in whose behalf an action or proceeding is prosecuted, against an executor
or administrator upon a claim or demand against the estate of
a deceased person, as to any matter of fact occurring before
the death of such deceased person, and equally within the
knowledge of both the witness and the deceased person."
2 Compiled Laws, Utah, 1888, Title X, c. 2, p. 427. The
Supreme Court of Utah held that, under this statute, Whitney
was incompetent to testify as to any fact equally within the
knowledge of himself and Lawrence. It is said that the Utah
statute was copied substantially from a statute of California,
which declared incompetent as witnesses, "parties or assignors
of parties to an action or proceeding, or persons in whose behalf an action or proceeding is prosecuted against an executor
or administrator, upon a claim or demand against the estate
of a deceased person as to any matter of fact occurring before
the death of such deceased person." Deering's Code Civ.
Proced. § 1880. The contention is that the interpretation
placed by the Supreme Court of California upon the statute
of that State should be followed in this case. We are referred
to Myers v. Reistein, 67 California, 89,in which case the plaintiff sought a decree establishing a trust in his favor in a certain piece of land. The alleged trustee was dead when the
case was heard. The court said: "We are of opinion that
the witness was competent. The action was not on a claim or
demand against the estate of Reinstein. The plaintiff asserted
that the interest in the land sued for constituted no part of

OCTOBER TERM, 189G.
Opinion of the Court.

Reinstein's estate, but was held in trust by Reinstein for Collins or his assigns, and after his death by the defendants, his
devisees and successors. The defendants asserted that no such
trust existed, but that Reinstein, their devisor, held the lands
as his own estate, and that they had succeeded to his right.
The very question to be determined here was whether the interest sought to be recovered was a part of Reinstein's estate
or not. If it was a part of his estate, then no trust existed ;
he held it in trust in his lifetime, and the interest passed to
his successors to the legal title, clothed with the trust. To
hold that the claim or demand here attempted to be enforced
was a part of the estate, and thus render the witness incompetent, would be to determine in advance the very question
to be determined on the trial of the action. By so holding
we would assume the very question to be tried and settled by
the contestation between the parties. This we are not allowed
to do."
The Supreme Court of Utah evidently entertained a different view of the Utah statute ; for the claim asserted by Whitney
in this case was, in the judgment of that court, "not only a
claim against an estate, but one for many thousands." The
relief sought was a decree declaring Whitney to be the equitable owner of, one eighth of the Mansion House in Detroit,
and entitled to the rents, issues and profits thereof, as well as
to part of the 3000 shares of the stock of the Eureka Hill
Mining Company, and the dividends that had theretofore
been declared thereon; and that the executors of Lawrence
be required, not only to account to the plaintiff for all of the
said rents, issues, profits and dividends, but to convey to him
an undivided one eighth interest in the real property, and assign to him a like proportion of such stock. It was also asked
that a receiver be appointed to receive the dividends on the
stock, and the rents, issues and profits of the realty. We
cannot doubt that the claims asserted in this suit by Whitney
are, within the meaning of the Utah statute, claims or demands
against the estate of a deceased person, and, consequently,
Lawrence being dead, Whitney was incompetent to testify to
any fact touching said claims or demands that occurred be-

WHITNEY v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

fore Lawrence's death, and were equally within the knowledge
of both Whitney and Lawrence. The Supreme Court of Utah
properly rejected the suggestion that such claim or demand

was not against the estate of Lawrence. To say that the only
issue here was whether the real property and stock described
in the petition constituted a part of Lawrence's estate, and
that no claim or demand was asserted against the estate, would
be to defeat what, it seems to us, was the manifest object of
the statute. While, as said by this court in Coulam v. Doull,
133 U. S. 216, 233, it is the ordinary rule to accept the interpretation given to a statute by the courts of the country by
which it was originally adopted, the rule is not an absolute
one, to be followed under all circumstances. We concur in
the interpretation placed upon the Utah statute by the Supreme Court of Utah, as one required by the obvious meaning of its provisions, and we do not feel obliged, .by the above
rule, to reject that interpretation because apparently the highest court of the State from which the statute was taken has,
in a single decision, taken a different view. We, therefore,
hold that to the extent indicated by the court below Whitney
was an incompetent witness as to any fact occurring before
the death of Lawrence and equally within the knowledge of
both.
It remains to inquire whether the judgment was right upon
the merits. The Supreme Court of the Territory held that
the suit was barred upon the grounds both of laches and of the
statute of limitations of Utah. The undisputed facts make a
case of such gross laches upon the part of Whitney as to forfeit all right to the aid of a court of equity. Equity will sometimes refuse relief where a shorter time than that prescribed
by the statute of limitations has elapsed without suit. It
ought always to do so where, as in this case, the delay in
the assertion of rights is not adequately explained, and
such circumstances have intervened in the condition of the
adverse party as render it unjust to him or to his estate that
a court of equity should assist the plaintiff. It is impossible
to doubt that Whitney knew, for many years, while Lawrence
was in proper mental condition, that the latter did not admit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

but denied, that the former had any just demand against him.
But Whitney forbore to assert the rights which he now asserts, and although having abundant opportunity to do so,
and having, if his present claims are just, every reason for
promptness and diligence, he nevertheless slept upon his
rights and made no demand upon Lawrence until disease
had so far deprived the latter of his reason and faculties
that he could not sufficiently comprehend any matter of
business submitted to him. Under the peculiar circumstances of this case, the court below rightly held that the
plaintiff's laches cut him off from any relief in equity. Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 95; Hayward v. Vational Bank,
96 U. S. 611, 617; Godden v. Eimnmell, 99 U. S. 201 ; Landsdale v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391; Speidel v. Henrici,120 U. S. 377;
Richards v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183, 188; Mac/call v. Casilear,
137 U. S. 556, 566 ; Kam mond v. flopkins, 143 U.. S.. 224, 250,
274. In this view, it is unnecessary to consider whether the
plaintiff's causes of action were barred by the statute of
limitation.
The judgment is
A4ffirmed.

The case Qf Wood v. Fox, Surviving Executor of Lawrence, No.
56, on appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah,
was argued with No. 68 by the same counsel, and depends upon the
same facts as appear in the above case, and for the reasons stated
in the opinion in that case the judgment is
Affirmed.

OXLEY STAVE COMPANY v.- BUTLER COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE
No. 221.

SUPREME COURT
Argued March 19, 1897.

OF THE STATE

OF MISSOURI.

Decided April 19, 1697.

This court cannot review the final judgment of the highest court of a State
even if it denied some title, right, privilege or immunity of the unsuccessful party, unless it appear from the record that such title, right, privilege
qr immunity was "specially set up or claimed" in the state court as be-

