GLADSON v. -MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

head of "Criminal Procedure," and in the first of the sections
regulating arrest, bail, indictments, pleadings, commitments,
challenges, witnesses, trial, verdict, sentence and execution, in
criminal cases; and this recognizance is, as it is described in
section 1020, a "recognizance in a criminal cause."
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

GLADSON v. MINNESOTA.
ERROR -TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 240. Argued March 26, 1897. - Decided April 12, 189T.

A statute of a State, requiring every railroad corporation to stop all regular
passenger trains, running wholly within the State, at its stations at all
county seats long enough to take on and discharge passengers with safety,
is a reasonable exercise of the police power of the State, and does not
take property of the company without due process of law; nor does it,
as applied to a train connecting with a train of the same company running into another State, and carrying some interstate passengers and the
United States mail, unconstitutionally interfere with interstate commerce,
or with the transportation of the mails of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Emerson Hadley for plaintiff in error.
Armstrong was on his brief.

Mr. James D.

.Mr. 11. IV. Childs, Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, for defendant in error. Mr. George B. Edgerton was
on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a complaint to a justice of the peace of the county
of Pine and State of Minnesota, by a passenger on a regular
passenger train of the St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company,
running between the cities of St. Paul and Duluth in the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and not being "a train entering this State from another State,
or going from this State to another State, or a transcontinental
train," against the engineer of the train, for not stopping it on
July 22, 1893, at the station in the village of Pine City, the
county seat of Pine county, as required by the statute of Minnesota of iMarch 31, 1893, c. 60, by which it was enacted as
follows:
"All regular passenger trains, run by any common carrier
operating a railway in this State, or by any receiver, agent,
lessee or trustee of said common carrier, shall stop a sufficient
length of time at its stations at all county seats within this
State to take on and discharge passengers from such trains
with safety; and any engineer, conductor or other agent, servant or employ6 of, or any person acting for such common
carrier, or for any receiver, agent, lessee or trustee of such
common carrier, who violates any provision of. this act, is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and is punishable by a fine of not
less than twenty-five dollars nor more than one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than
ten days nor more than three months: Provided, however, that
this act shall not apply to through railroad trains entering
this State from any other State, or to transcontinental trains
of any railroad." Minnesota Laws of 1893, p. 173.
The defendant was convicted before the justice of the peace,
and appealed to the district court for the county. Upon the
trial in that court, the case appeared to be as follows:
The St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company was a corporation of the State of Minnesota; and had become vested, under
the laws of the State, with the lands received by the State
under the act of Congress of May 5, 1864, c. 79, "making a
grant of lands to the State of Minnesota to aid in the construction of the railroad from St. Paul to Lake Superior," and
providing that "the said railroad shall be and remain a public
highway for the use of the government of the United States,
free from all toll or other charge, for the transportation of any
property or troops of the United States"; that "the United
States mail shall be transported over said road, under the
direction of the Post Office Department," at prices to be fixed

GLADSON v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

by Congress or by the Postmaster General; and that "any
railroad which. may hereafter be constructed from any point
on the Bay of Superior in the State of Wisconsin shall be
permitted to connect with the said railroad." 13 Stat. 64, 65 ;
Minnesota Special Laws of 1865, c. 2, p. 19; State v. Luther,
56 Minnesota, 156.
On the afternoon of July 2, 1893, the complainant was a
passenger on a train of the company running from St. Paul
to Duluth, and held a ticket for a passage from Rush City to
Pine City, both being stations on the line between St. Paul
and Duluth, and Pine City being a village of eight hundred
inhabitants and the county seat of Pine county; but, although he showed his ticket to the conductor, the train was
not stopped at Pine City. The train was a fast express
train, known as "the limited," carrying passengers and the
United States mail, running daily from St. Paul to Duluth
only, stopping for wood and water at Hinckley, and at railroad crossings and junctions at Rush City and elsewhere, but
not scheduled to stop nor actually stopping at Pine City or
other stations on the way. The mail, and about one third
of the passengers, on the average, were destined for West
Superior, and were transferred at West Duluth in the State
of Minnesota to another train of the same company running
thence to the city of West Superior in the State of Wisconsin,
just across the line between the two States. To have stopped
the train at Pine City would have caused a loss of time of from
five to seven minutes, and an expense of from $1.25 to $1.60.
Two passenger trains and a mixed train.,passed daily each way
over the road from St. Paul to Duluth, stopping at Pine City.
The defendant, as stated in his bill of exceptions, "moved
the court for his discharge, on the ground that the statute
under which the complaint is made is unconstitutional on its
face, not falling within the legitimate scope of the police
power of the State, consequently being a taking of the
property of this railroad company without due process of
law; that, even if it is not unconstitutional on its face, it is
unconstitutional as applied to the train in controversy: in the
first place, being an attempt on the part of the State to regu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

late interstate commerce; and secondly, being an unlawful
interference with and an attempt to regulate the United
States mail."
The court denied the motion, and submitted the case
to the
jury, who returned a verdict of guilty, upon which judgment
was rendered. The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court
of the State, which affirmed the judgment. 57 Minnesota, 390.
The defendant sued out this writ of error.
The principles of law which govern this case are familiar,
and have been often affirmed by this court. A railroad corporation created by a State is for all purposes of local government a domestic corporation, and its railroad within the State
is a matter of domestic concern. Even when its road connects, as most railroads do, with railroads in other States, the
State which created the corporation may make all needful
regulations of a police character for the government of the
It
company while operating its road in that jurisdiction.
may prescribe the location and the plan of construction of
the road, the rate of speed at which the trains shall run, and
the places at which they shall stop, and may make any other
reasonable regulations for their management, in order to secure 'the objects of the incorporation, and the safety, good
order, convenience and comfort of the passengers and of the
public.
All such regulations are strictly within the police
power of the State. They are not in themselves regulations
of interstate commerce; and it is only when they operate as
such in the circumstances of their application, and conflict
with the express or presumed will of Congress exerted upon
'the same subject, that they can be required to give way to
the paramount authority of the Constitution of the United
States. Stone v. Famners' Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S.307,
333, 334; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 481, 482; Itennington, v. Georgia, 163 U. S.299, 308, 317; AXew York, New
Haven, & IlartfordRailroad v.New York, 165 U. S.628, 632.
In Minnesota, as in other States, the county seat of each
county is the place appointed for holding the meetings of the
county commissioners and the sessions of the district court,
and for keeping the offices of the clerk of that court, the

GLADSON v. MINNESOTA.
Opinion of the Court.

judge of probate, the county auditor, the county treasurer,
the sheriff and the register of deeds. Minnesota Gen. Stat.
1878, c. 8, §§ 102, 129, 148, 174:, 195, 220, 227, 258.
The legislature of the State may well treat it, as one important object of establishing a railroad within the State, that
public officers, parties to actions, jurors, witnesses arid citizens
generally, should be enabled the more promptly to reach and
leave the centres to which their duties or business may call
them. To require every regular passenger train, running
wholly within the limits of the State, to stop at all stations
at county seats, directly in its course, for the few minutes,
and at the frifling expense, needed to take on and discharge
passengers with safety, is a reasonable exercise of the police
power of the State, and cannot be considered a taking of
property of the company without due process of law, nor an
unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce or with
the transportation of the mails of the United States.
Tile recent case of Illinois Central Railroad v. Illinois,
163 U. S. 142, cited by the plaintiff in error, was essentially
different from the present case.
In that case, the statute of the State of Illinois, as construed
and applied by the Supreme Court of the State, required a
fast train, carrying interstate passengers and the United States
mail from Chicago in the State of Illinois to places in other
States south of the Ohio River, over an interstate highway
established by authority of Congress, to delay the transportation of such passengers and mails, by turning aside from the
direct interstate route, and running to .a station three miles
and a half away from a point on that route, and back again
to the same point, and thus travelling seven miles which
formed no part of its course, before proceeding on its way;
and, as the court observed, the question whether a statute
which merely required interstate railroad trains, without
going out of their course, to stop at county seats, would
be within the constitutional power of the State, was not
presented, and could not be decided, upon the record in
that case. 163 U. S. 153, 154.
But, in the case at bar, the train in question ran wholly

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of'the Court.

within the State of Minnesbta, and could have stopped at the
county seat of Pine county without deviating from its course;
and the statute of Minnesota expressly provides that "this act
shall not apply to through railroad trains entering this State
from any other State, or to transcontinental trains of any railroad."
Judgment afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.

In re HIEN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 16. Original.

Argued March 22, 1897. -Decided

April 12, 1897.

The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia was duly authorized by
§ 6 of the act creating the court, as well as by § 6 as amended by the act
of July 30, 1894, to make rules limiting the time of taking appeals to the

court from the decisions of the Commissioner of Patents; and there was
no restriction on this power by reason of Rev. Stat. § 4894.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. I. Singleton for petitioner.
on his brief.

Mr. F. V. Ritter was

3fr. T. A. Megrath, by special leave, opposing.
MR.
court.

CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

The Commissioner of Patents, in an interference proceeding
between Philip Hien and one William A. Pungs, awarded
priority of the invention in controversy to Pungs, June 9,
1894. lien gave notice to the Commissibner, March 12,
1896, of an appeal from his decision, under § 4912 of the
Revised Statutes, to the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, and filed his petition of appeal in that court,

