OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

"It is of no aVail," said this court in Cooper v. Reynold8,
10 Wall. 308, "to show that there are errors in the record,
unless they be such as prove that the court had no jurisdiction
of the case, or that the judgment rendered was beyond its
power. This principle has been often held by this court and
by all courts, and it takes rank as an axiom of the law."
And in Cornett v. WilliamS, 20 Wall. 226, it was declared
that "the settled rule of law is that jurisdiction having attached in the original case everything done within the power
of that jurisdiction, when collaterally questioned, is to be held
conclusive of the rights of the parties, unless impeached for
fraud."
Having concluded that the district court had jurisdiction
over the parties and the subject-matter, and that its decree
cannot be successfully impeached in this collateral proceeding,
it is unnecessary to consider other questions suggested in the
record and discussed in the briefs of the counsel.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is
Aj 'rmed.

In re LENNON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 254.

Submitted March 30, 1897. -Deided

April 19, 1897.

Parties to collateral proceedings are bound by the jurisdictional averments
In the record, and will not be permitted to dispute them except so far
as they may have contained a false recital with respect to such parties.
Where the requisite citizenship appears on the face of a bill, the jurisdic'
tion of the court cannot be attacked by evidence dehors the record, in a
collateral proceeding by one who was not a party to the bill.
A bill brought solely to enforce compliance with the Interstate Commerce

Act, and to compel railroad companies to comply with such act by offering proper and reasonable facilities for interchange of traffic with the

company, complainant, and enjoining them from refusing to receive from
complainant, for transportation over their lines, any cars which might
be tendered them, exhibits a case arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States of which a Circuit Court has jurisdiction.

IN

RE LENNON.

Statement of the Case.
To render a person amenable to an injunction, it is neither necessary that
he should have been a party to the suit in which the injunction was issued, nor to have been actually served with a copy of it, so long as he
appears to have had actual notice.

THIS was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus originally
filed in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Ohio.
The petitioner alleged that he was a citizen of the State of
Ohio, and was unlawfully restrained of his liberty by the
marshal, under an order of the Circuit Court of the United
States, made in a case pending in that court, wherein the
Toledo, Ann Arbor and North Michigan Railway Company,
a corporation of the State of Michigan, was complainant, and
several railway companies, citizens of Ohio, as well as the
Michigan Central Railroad Company, a citizen of Michigan,
were defendants.
The bill in that case, which was annexed to the petition as
an exhibit, averred the complainant to be the owner of a line
of railroad from Toledo, Ohio, northwesterly through the State
of Michigan; that a large part of its business consisted in the
transportation of freight cars from points in the States of
Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin to points in Ohio and
other States east thereof, and that it was engaged as a common carrier in a large amount of interstate commerce, which
was regulated and controlled by the Interstate Commerce Act
of Congress. The bill further averred that the defendants'
lines of railroad connected with those of complainant at or
near Toledo, and that a large and important part of its business consisted in the interchange of freight cars between the
defendant and complainant companies, and was subject to the
provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act; that it was the
duty of the defendant companies to afford reasonable and
equal facilities for the. interchange of traffic, and to receive,
forward and deliver freight cars in the ordinary transaction
of business, without any discrimination; that the defendant
companies, and their employ~s, had given out and threatened that they would refuse to receive from complainant cars
billed over its road for transportation by complainant to their
destination, for the reason that the complainant had employed

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

as locomotive engineers in its service men who were not members of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, "an irresponsible voluntary association," and that the locomotive
engineers in the employ of the defendant companies had
refused to handle cars to be interchanged with the complainant's road; notwithstanding that they continued to
afford the other railroad companies full and free facilities
for the interchange of traffic, while refusing to transact such
business with the complainant, thereby illegally discriminating against it.
Upon the filing of this bill, and upon the application of the
complainant, the Circuit Court issued an injunction against
the defendants, their officers, agents, servants and employ~s,
enjoining them from refusing to afford and extend to the
Toledo, Ann Arbor and North Michigan Railway Company
the same facilities for an interchange of interstate business
between the companies as were enjoyed by other railway
companies, and from refusing to receive from the complainant company cars billed from points in one State to points
in another State, which might be offered to the defendant
companies by the complainant.
The injunction was served upon the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Company, one of the defendants, one
of whose employ~s was the appellant, James Lennon, a locomotive engineer, who had received notice of the injunction,
and, still continuing in the service of the company, had refused to obey it.
Thereupon the Lake Shore company applied to the court
for an attachment against Lennon, and certain others of its
engineers and firemen, setting forth that, with full knowledge
of the injunction theretofore made, they had refused to obey
the order of the court, and deserted their locomotives and
engines in the yard of the company, for the reason that Ann
Arbor cars of freight were in the trains of such company, and
that they had refused to haul such cars and perform their
service for that reason.
The persons named, including the petitioner Lennon, being
served with an order to show cause, appeared in pursuance of

IN RE LENNON.
Statement of the Case.

such order in person and by counsel, and witnesses were examined as to their knowledge of, and as to their violation of,
the order. The court found that Lennon was guilty of contempt in disobeying the order of injunction, and imposed a
fine of fifty dollars and costs. Toledo, Ann Arbor & North.
]Michigan Railway Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 746.
Thereupon Lennon filed this petition, setting forth the
above facts, and alleging that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction or lawful authority to arrest or proceed against him in
manner as aforesaid, and that its order and judgmentwhereby he was committed to the custody of the marshal were without authority of law and void: (1) that such order
was issued in a suit whereof the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, because the complainant and one of the defendants,
namely, the Michigan Central Railroad Company, were, at
the time of the filing of the bill, and ever since have been,
citizens of the same State, and that said suit did not arise
under the Constitution and laws of the United States; (2)
that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the person of the
petitioner, because he was not a party to the suit, nor served
with any subpoena notifying him of the same; had no notice
of the application for the injunction, nor was served with a
copy thereof; nor had any notice whatever of the issuing of
such injunction ; nor of its contents; (3) that the Circuit Court
was also without jurisdiction to make the order, because it
was beyond the jurisdiction of a court of equity to compel the
performance of a personal contract for service and to interfere,
by mandatory injunction, with the contract between himself and the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway
Company.
Upon a hearing in the Circuit Court it was ordered that the
petition be dismissed. Lennon, after appealing to this court,
which held it had no jurisdiction and dismissed the appeal,
150 U. S. 393, thereupon appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which affirmed the decree of
the Circuit Court, Lennon v. Lake Shore &c. Railway Co., 22
U. S. App. 561, whereupon petitioner applied for and obtained
a writ of certiorari from this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. C. i-. Barber, Mr. lValter I!. Smith, Xr. Fran/k H.
Hurd and Mr. James H. Southard for Lennon.
Mr. George C.' Greene for Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Company.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only question which can properly be raised upon this
writ is whether the Circuit Court exceeded its jurisdiction in
holding the petitioner for a contempt and in imposing upon
him a fine therefor. We are not at liberty to consider the
testimony, or to inquire whether the facts, as they appeared
upon the hearing, justified the action of the Circuit Court.
It is only upon the theory that the proceedings and judgment
of the court were nullities that we are authorized to reverse
its action. It has been too frequently decided, to be now
open to question, that a writ of habeas corus cannot be made
use of to perform the functions of a writ of error or an appeal.
E yparte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38, 43; Ex parte Terry, 128
U. S. 229; Ex _parte Caddy, 131 U. 5. 280; Nielsen, Petitioner, 131 U.S. 176; Ex parte Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, 167;
United States v. Pridgeon, 153 U. S. 48.
Acting bpon this theory, the petitioner claims that the
Circuit Court exceeded its jurisdiction in adjudging him
guilty of contempt, for the reason that it had no jurisdiction
of the original bill, because one of the defendants to such bill
was a citizen of the same State with the complainant; because
petitioner was not a party to the suit and was never served
with a subpcena or the injunction; and, finally, because it was
beyond the jurisdiction of a court of equity to compel the performance of a personal contract for service.
1. The original bill averred the complainant -the Toledo,
Ann Arbor and North Michigan Railway Company- to be a
corporation and citizen of the State of Michigan, and the
several railway companies defendant to be citiiens either of
Pennsylvania or Ohio; and there is nothing in the record of

IN

RE LENNON.

Opinion of the Court.

that case to show that this averment was not true. It only
appears to be otherwise by an allegation in the petition for
the habeas corpus; and the question at once arises whether,
where the requisite citizenship appears upon the face of the
bill, the jurisdiction of the court can be attacked by evidence
dehors the record in a collateral proceeding by one who was
not a party to the bill. We know of no authority for such
action. The general rule is that parties to collateral proceedings are bound by the jurisdictional averments in the
record, and will not be permitted to dispute them except so
far as they may have contained a false recital with respect
to such parties. Doubtless the averments with regard to
citizenship might have been directly attacked by any one who
was a party to that suit. But this cannot be done upon habeas
corpus., . Michaels v. Post, 21 Wall. 398; Hudson v. Guestier,
6 Cranch, 281; McCormick v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192, 199;
Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Pet. 157; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet.
193; Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319; United States v.
Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 709; Florentine v. Barton, 2 Wall.
210; Comstock v. Crawford, 3 Wall. 396; Dyckman v. New
York, 5 N. Y. 434; Jackson v. Crawford, 12 Wend. 533;
.Betts v. Bagley, 12 Pick. 572; Fisher v. Bassett, 9 Leigh, 119,
131; Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U.. S. 327.
Irrespective of this, however, we think the bill exhibited a
case arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, as it appears to have been brought solely to enforce a
compliance with the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act of 1887, and to compel the defendants to comply with such
act, by offering proper and reasonable facilities for the interchange of traffic with complainant, and enjoining them from
refusing to receive from complainant, for transportation over
their lines, any cars which might be tendered them. It has
been frequently held by this court that a case arises under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, whenever the party
plaintiff sets up a right to which he is entitled under such
laws, which the parties defendant deny to him, and the correct
decision of the case depends upon the construction of such
laws.. As was said in Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257, 264:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Cases arising under the laws of the United States are such
as grow out of the legislation of Congress, whether they constitute the right or privilege, or claim or protection, or defence
of the party, in whole or in part, by whom they are asserted."
See also Starin v. -New York, 115 U. S. 248, 257; Kansas
Pacifo Railroad v. Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad, 112 U. S.
4141 Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 462; Railroad Co. v.
Xississippi, 102 U. S. 135.
2. The facts that petitioner was not a party to such suit,
nor served with process of subpoena, nor had notice of the
applicatiofi made by the complainant for the mandatory injunction, nor was served by the officers of the court with such
injunction, are immaterial; so long as it was made to appear
that he had notice of the issuing of an injunction by the court.
To render a person amenable to an injunction it is neither necessary that he should have been a party to the suit in which
the injunction was issued, nor to have been actually served
with a copy of it, so long as he appears to have had actual
notice. High on Injunctions, ยง 1444; Mead v. -Norris,21 Wisconsin, 310; Wellesley v. Mornington, 11 Beav. 181.
Conceding the question whether he had such -notice in this
case to be open to review here, we are of opinion that upon
the facts appearing in this record this question must be
answered, as it was answered in the court below, in the
affirmative. The testimony upon this point is fully set forth
in the opinion of the Circuit Court, 54 Fed. Rep. 746, 757,
and it establishes beyond all controversy that Lennon had
notice and knowledge of the injunction.
It appears that, immediately after the injunction order was
granted and served upon the Lake Shore company, the company had copies of the order printied, and attached thereto
a notice, signed by its superintendent, calling the attention
of employ~s to the injunction; that printed copies of the
injunction and notice were posted on all the bulletin boards
at roundhouses where engineers took their engines, and that
it was the duty of engineers to examine all notices so posted
before starting on their runs. That on the morning of the
18th of March, Lennon was upmi his engine at Alexis, mak-

IN RE LENNON.
Opinion of the Court.

ing a run with his train from Monroe to Toledo; that on his
arrival at Alexis, and before he refused to receive and haul
the Ann Arbor car, Mr. Chillcote, an agent of the Lake Shore
Company, handed to him (Lennon) a printed copy of said injunction order, and the notice signed by the general superintendent, and he received and examined them.
Mr. Chillcote says: "I handed him these papers and he
said he had seen the order; that it was posted somewhere;
I think at the roundhouse, I think at Detroit. I wouldn't
say positive as to that; but he said he had seen a copy of
it.
I simply handed it to him, and he said, 'We
understand the order,' or 'We have seen the order,' or
words to that effect." Chillcote further says: "He stated
when I handed him the order, before he read it, that he
understood it."
Mr. Keegan testified that he was present when the copy of
the order was handed to Lennon, and that he said, "I have
seen it before."

This occurred about 10 o'clock A.M., and

Lennon, after having the copy of the order delivered to him
and admitting that he had seen it before and upderstood itY
refused to receive the Ann Arbor car until after 2.30 P.M.,
when he received a telegram from IMr. Watson an officer of
the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, saying, "You can
come along and handle Ann Arbor cars," and he then at once
proceeded with his train to Toledo, receiving and hauling the
Ann Arbor car.
3. To the objection that it was beyond the jurisdiction of
a court of equity to compel the performance of a personal
contract for service, and to interfere by mandatory injunction
with petitioner's contract with the railway company, it is sufficient to say that nothing of the kind was attempted. The
petitioner, as one of the employ~s of the Lake Shore railway,
was enjoined from refusing to extend to the Ann Arbor railway such facilities for the interchange of traffic on interstate
commerce business between such railways as were enjoyed by
other companies, and from refusing to receive from the Ann
Arbor company cars billed from points in one State to points
in other States. No attempt was made to interfere. with peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tioner's contract with his own company, or to compel a con,tinuance of his service in such company There could be no
doubt of the power of the court to grant this injunction, which
bore solely upon the i.elations of the railway companies to each
other. It was alleged in the bill to have been a part of the
regular business of the defendant roads to interchange traffic
with the Ann Arbor road, and the injunction was sought to
prevent an arbitrary discontinuance of this custom. Perhaps,
to a certain extent, the injunction may be termed mandatory, although its object was to continue the existing state
.of things, and to prevent an arbitrary breaking off of the
But it
,current business connectiond between the roads.
of
equity,
of
a
court
the
power
was clearly not beyond
which is not always limited to the restraint of a contemplated or threatened action, but may even require affirmative action, where the circumstances of the case demand it.
Robinson v. Lord Byron, 1 Bro. C. C. 588; Uervey v. Smith,
1 Kay & Johns. 389; Beadel v. Perry,L. R. 3Eq. 465; Whitecar v. Aichenor, 37 N. J. Eq. 6; Broome v. New York & New
Jersey Telephone Co., 42 N. J. Eq. 141.
It appears from the testimony in this case that Lennon was
on his run as engineer from Detroit, Michigan, to Air Line
Junction, near Toledo, with a train of forty-five cars. Having
reached an intermediate station called Alexis, he was ordered
to take on an empty car from the Ann Arbor road. He refused to take the car into the train and held the train there
for five hours, and then proceeded on his run after receiving
a dispatch from the chairman of a committee of the Engineer
Brotherhood instructing him to "come along and handle Ann
Arbor cars." When he first received the order at Alexis to
take the Ann Arbor car he refused, and said, "I quit," but
afterwards agreed With the superintendent of the division to
take the train to its destination if the order to take the boycotted car was countermanded. Though he claimed to have
quit at Alexis at about 10 o'clock he brought his train to its
destination, and when told what his next run would be gave
no notice of having quit or intending to quit.
It is not necessary for us to decide whether an engineer may

CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

557

Syllabus.

suddenly and without notice quit the service of a railway company at an intermediate station or between stations, though
cases may be easily imagined where a sudden abandonment
of a trainload of passengers in an unfrequented spot might
imperil their safety and even their lives. It is sufficient, in
the present case, to observe that the court found, upon the
testimony, that the petitioner did not quit in good faith in the
morning, but intended to continue in the company's service,
and that his conduct was a trick and device to avoid obeying
the order of the court.
The finding of the court in this particular is not open to review, and hence the question whether the court has power to
compel the performance of a personal contract for service does
not arise. It was a question for the court to determine whether
the petitioner's action in delaying the train five hours at Alexis
was taken in pursuance of a determination to abandon the
service of the company, or for the purpose of disobeying the
lawful injunction of the court. The finding of the court was
against the petitioner upon that point.
There was no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
and it is, therefore,
Ajirmed.

CITY RAILWAY COMPANY v. CITIZENS' STREET
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Decided April 19, 1897.
No. 214. Argued March 16, 17, 1897.-

The Citizens' Street Railway Company of Indianapolis was organized in
1864 under an act of the legislature of Indiana of 1861, authorizing such
a company to be "a body politic and corporation in perpetuity." January 18, 1864, the common council of that city passed an ordinance authorizing the company to lay tracks upon designated streets, and providing
that "the right to operate said railway shall extend to the full time of
thirty years," during which time the city authorities were not to extend
to other companies privileges which would impair or destroy the rights.

