OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

ditional allegation that all of said other moneyed capital referred to was all the moneyed capital in the city owned by
resident individual citizens and invested in interest-bearing
loans, discounts and securities, except that invested in incorporated banks located in the city.
It is not perceived that this additional allegation calls for
any different conclusion than the one reached in the previous
case. We are still uninformed whether the moneyed capital
left unassessed was, as to any material portion thereof, moneyed capital coming into competition with that of national
banks. The averment that the moneyed capital exempted
was "taxable" does not enable us to say that it therefore
consisted of investments within the meaning of the term
moneyed capital" as used in the act of Congress.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is, in
each case,
AJl'm ed.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR.

JUSTICE BROWN

and MR.

JUSTICE

WnrE dissent for the reason stated in their memorandum
dissent in No. 38, ante, 440, 462.

of

AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY v. FISHER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 242.

Argued March 2D,1897,-

Decided April 12, 1897.

The statute of the Territory of Utah (Compiled Laws of 1888, ยง 3371, as
amended in 1892) providing that " in all civil cases a verdict may be

rendered on the concurrence therein of nine or more members of the
jury," if not invalid under the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution,
is so as violating the provision in the act of September 9,1850, c. 51, admitting Utah as a Territory, that '' the Constitution and laws of the United
States are hereby extended over and declared to be in force in said Territory of Utah, so far as the same or any provisions thereof may be applicable," and the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, "concerning the practice in
territorial courts, and appeals therefrom," which provided that no party

AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY v. FISHER.

465

Statement of the Case.

"shall be deprived of the right of trial by jury in cases cognizable at
common law."
Litigants in common law actions in the courts of that Territory, while it
remained a Territory, had a right to trial by jury, which Involved unanimity In the verdict, and this right could not be taken away by
territorial legislation.
The power of a State to change the rule in respect of unanimity of juries
is not before the court in this case.

ON April 29, 1891, plaintiffs in error commenced an -action
in the District Court of Salt Lake County, Territory of Utah,
to recover of defendants the sum of $20,844.75 on a contract
for furnishing labels, cards, etc. After answer the case came
on for trial before a jury on December 10, 1892, and resulted
in a verdict in favor of the defendants, signed by nine jurors,
the others not concurring. Judgment was rendered upon this
verdict, which was sustained by the Supreme Court of the
Territory. 10 Utah, 147.
This action of the trial and Supreme Courts in sustaining
a verdict returned by only nine of the jurors was under the
authority of an act of the legislature of Utah, approved
March 10, 1892 (Laws Utah, 1892, page 46), which provides
as follows:
"Sxc. 1. That section 3371 of the Compiled Laws of 1888,
of Utah, is heireby amended so as to read as follows:
"SEc. 3371. In all civil cases a verdict may be rendered on
the concurrence therein of nine or morejmembers of the jury."
The bill of exceptions contains this recital in respect to an
instruction and the verdict:
"The court further charges you that the concurrence of
nine or more members of the jury is essential to your verdict,
and that all who agree to it should sign it.
"(To which last charge the plaintiff duly excepted.)
"The jury having retired and deliberated, returned a written
verdict into court on the 12th day of December, 1892, ' finding
the issues for the defendant,' signed by nine (9) of its members
-the others refusing to concur therein. Which verdict the
court then and there received and caused to be entered upon
the record.
"To which action of the court the plaintiff excepted."
VOL. CLXVI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. eremiah M. Wilson (with whom was ML'. F. I. Von
Cotzhausen on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. J. L. Rawlins for defendants in error.
AIR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As the amount in controversy is over $5000 this court in
any view has jurisdiction of the case, and may inquire into all
matters properly preserved in the record. The recital in the
bill of exceptions shows that proper exceptions were taken
to the charge of the court in respect to the number of jurors
whose concurrence was essential to the verdict, and also to its
action in receiving and entering of record such verdict.
The territorial statute was relied upon as authority for this
action. Its validity, therefore, must be determined. Whether
the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which provides that "in suits at common law, where
the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right.
of trial by jury shall be preserved," operates exiproprio vigore
to invalidate this statute, may be a matter of dispute. In
Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437, an act of the legislature of the
Territory of Iowa dispensing with a jury in a certain class of
common law actions was held void. While in the opinion, on
page 460, the Seventh Amendment was quoted, it was also
said: "The organic law of the Territory of Iowa, by express
provision and by reference, extended the laws of the United
States, including the ordinance of 1787, over the Territory, so
far as they are applicable"; and the ordinance of 1787, article 2,
in terms provided that "the inhabitants of the said Territory
shall always be entitled to the benefits of the writ of habeas
coius, and of the trial by jury." So the invalidity may have
been adjudged by reason of the conflict with Congressional
legislation. In Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 154,
it was said, in reference to a criminal case cominig from the
Territory of Utah, that "by the Constitution of the United
States (Amendment VI) the accused was entitled to a trial by

AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY v. FISHER.

467

Opinion of the Court.

an impartial jury." Both of these cases were quoted in Callan
v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, as authorities to sustain th ruling
that the provisions in the Constitution of the United States relating to trial by jury are in force in the District of Columbia.
On the other hand, in Mormon Church v. United States, 136
U. S. 1, 44, it was said by Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for
the court: "Doubtless; Congress in legislating for the Territories would be subject to those fundamental limitations in
favor of personal rights which are formulated in the Constitution and its amendments; but these limitations would exist
rather by inference and the general spirit of the Constitution
from which Congress derives all its powers, than by any
express and direct application of its provisions." And in
iMicAllister v. United States, 141 U. S. 174, it was held that
the constitutional provision in respect to the tenure of judicial
offices did not apply to territorial judges.
But if the Seventh Amendment does not operate in and of
itself to invalidate this territorial statute, then Congress has
full control over the Territories irrespective of any express
constitutional limitations, and it has legislated in respect to
this matter. In the first place, in the act to establish a territorial government for Utah, act of September 9, 1850, c. 51,
ยง 17, 9 Stat. 453, 458, it enacted "that the Constitution and
laws of the United States are hereby extended over and declared to be in force in said Territory of Utah, so far as the
same, or any provision thereof, may be applicable." A subsequent statute has more specific reference to jury trials. Act
of April 7, 1874, c. 80, 18 Stat. 27. The first section of this
act, after confirming the statutes of the various Territories so
far as they authorize a uniform course of proceeding in all
cases whether legal or equitable, closes. with this proviso:
"Provided, that no party has been or shall be deprived of
the right of trial by jury in cases cognizable at commcn law."
This, of course, implies not merely that the forin of a jury
trial be preserved, but also all its substantial elements. Walker
v. Southern Pacific Railroad,165 U. S. 593.
Therefore, either the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, or these acts of Congress, or all together, secured to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

every litigant in a common law action in the courts of the
Territory of Utah the right to a trial by jury, and nullified
any act of its legislature which attempted to take from him
anything which is of the substance of that right. Now unanimity was one of the peculiar and essential features of trial
by jury at the common law. No authorities are needed to
sustain this proposition. Whatever may be true as to legislation which changes any mere details of a jury trial, it is clear
that a statute which destroys this substantial and essential
feature thereof is one abridging the right. It follows, therefore, that the court erred in receiving a verdict returned by
only nine jurors, the others not concurring.
In order to guard against any misapprehension it may be
proper to say that the power of a State to change the rule in
respect to unanimity of juries is not before us for consideration. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Jlurtado v. California,
110 U. S.516.
The judgment will be
Reversed, and as the questions involved in the case are not
of a f deral nature,and diverse (itizenship is not alleged,
the case must be remanded to the Supreme Court of the
Stateforfurther proceedings.

UNITED

STATES v. AMERICAN
PANY.

TOBACCO

COM-

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 742. Submitted March 29, 1897. -Decided

April 12, 1897.

The tobacco company purchased from an internal revenue officer of the
United States revenue stamps to the amount of $4100.10, to be put upon
April 2, 1893, its factory in New York
its tobacco as manufactured.
and all the contents were destroyed by fire. Among the contents were
the stamps so purchased. Of these, stamps to the value of $1356.63 had
not been used, and stamps to the value of $2743.47 had been put unon
packages of tobacco which were still in the factory, unsold. The prop-

