MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Statement of the Case.

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF

THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 127.

Argued January 8, 11, 1897. - Decided April 19, 1891'.

In the District of Columbia a non-resident minor, having an interest in real
estate situated therein, may, by the appointment of a guardian ad litem
by the proper court, and without service of personal process upon
him, be subjected to a decree providing for the sale of the land for the
payment of the debts of the decedent owner, and partitioning the surplus,
if any, after such payment.
Such a decree, if made by a court with full jurisdiction of the subject-matter and having the proper parties before it, cannot be attacked by one of
those parties in a collateral proceeding.
Whether the decedent owner in such case had any interest in the land petitioned to be sold was a question to be decided by the court in which the
cause was pending, and if error was committed in its disposition of that
question, the remedy was by appeal, or by a bill of review, if duly filed.

IN condemnation proceedings instituted by the United States
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia 'to obtain
land for a post office site in the city of Washington, a tteasury draft for the sum of $17,000 was paid by the United
States into the registry of that court on October 9, 1891, as
compensation to the owner of a parcel of land designated in
the proceedings as parcel 15, in square 323. ,Frederick L.
Manson and Charles C. Duncanson both claimed this fund,
each as having been owner in fee simple of the said parcel 15
at the time of the condemnation, and on June 20, 1892, Manson filed his bill in equity in the said court against Duncanson,
seeking to enjoin the defendant from receiving the fund, and
asking for an order directing payment of the same to the complainant. The facts presented by the case which arose upon
this bill are substantially as follows:
On August 2, 1862, James W. Barker, who then owned a
part of lot ( in the said square, which part included the land
designated in the said proceedings as parcel 15, executed a
deed, wherein his wife joined, conveying the property to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

William R. Woodward, in trust. William L. Manson and
Sarah Jane Manson, his-wife, united with Barker and wife
in the execution of this deed, and it was recited therein that
Sarah Jane Manson was possessed of property separate from
her husband, which she was desirous of having invested in the
said premises, and that therefore William L. Manson, with her
consent and concurrence, had entered into a contract with
Barker for the purchase of the same, and for the purchase
price thereof was to pay a certain amount in cash and give
certain notes, the amount of one of which was to discharge
a purchase money debt due by Barker. It was further recited
that all of the notes had been executed by Manson and wife,
and delivered. The deed provided that Woodward should
hold in trust to secure the payment of the notes, and, until
there should be some default in payment of the same, to permit Sarah Jane Manson to occupy and enjoy the premises, and
receive the rents thereof for her separate use; and upon the
full payment of all the notes, to make conveyance of the
property upon the trusts and for the purposes expressed and
declared for the benefit of Sarah Jane Manson in and by a
certain other deed or declaration, bearing even date with the
conveyance described.
The deed or declaration referred to was executed by
Manson and his wife, and described the said Woodward
and Erastus Poulson as parties thereto of the second and
third part, respectively. It directed that, after payment of
the notes, etc., Woodward should convey the premises to
Poulson, who should thenceforth stand seized of the same
upon the trusts following, viz.:
"In trust for the said Sarah Jane Manson for and during
her life, and to permit her to occupy said premises and to
receive the rents and profits thereof for her own sole and
separate use, free from the interference of her present or
any future husband, and without being liable for his debts
or engagetnents, her receipt alone being a valid discharge for
such rents and profits.
"And upon further trust that it shall be lawful for the said
Sarah Jane Manson at any time, and from time to time dur-

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Statement of the Case.

ing her life, to dispose of the said premises, either by absolute
sale or mortgage thereof, as she may think proper, in which
the said party hereto of the third part, his heirs and assigns,
shall join, such disposition to be made by deed or deeds to be
executed and acknowledged by the said trustees, and by the
said Sarah Jane Manson as if she were sole and unmarried.
And in default of any such sale or mortgage, or so far as the
same shall not extend, upon further trust for such person or
persons and for such estate, and in such parts, shares and
proportions as she, the said Sarah Jane Manson, shall or may,
from time to time by any deed or instrument of writing, or
by her last will and testament, under her hand and seal (and
which she is hereby authorized to make), limit, direct or appoint,
give or devise the same; and in default of any such limitation, direction and appointment, gift or devise, in trust for
such child or children as she shall leave surviving her, and the
issue of any deceased child or children equally share and
share alike, such issue taking his, her or their parent's or
parents' share; and for default of all such children or issue,
then in trust for the right heirs of the said Sarah Jane Manson forever. And it is further declared that all moneys which
shall or may be raised by sale or mortgage of the said premises,
or any part thereof, shall be paid to the said Sarah Jane Manson, and be disposed of as she shall or may think best, her
receipt being a valid discharge therefor; and the party paying
the same not being bound to see to the application or disposition thereof."
On August 2, 1865, all of the notes then having been paid,
Barker and Woodward, by deed of that date, released and
conveyed the property to Poulson, in trust for the sole and
separate use and benefit of Sarah Jane Manson, exclusive of
her husband, and upon the trusts declared in the deed or declaration aforesaid.
Sarah Jane Manson died in Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
on September 4, 1870, leaving a will, dated April 20, 1865,
whereby she directed that her debts be paid, and then devised
and bequeathed all her estate real and personal, as follows:
Her husband, William L. Manson, to take and receive all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

rents and profits of her estate during his life and apply the
same for his support and the support and education of her
three children, namely, Frederick L. Manson, William H.
Walters (a child of the testatrix by a former husband) and
Cecelia M. Manson, and, on the death of her husband, all of
her estate, real and personal, to be equally divided, share and
share alike, among the said three children, when the youngest
of them should reach the age of twenty-one years, and not
before. This will was attested by only two witnesses, and
was therefore not effectual to pass real estate in the District
of Columbia, and was never admitted to probate therein.
On September 12, 1870, it was duly admitted to probate in
Philadelphia, and letters of administration, with the will
annexed, were granted to William L. Manson, the surviving
husband.
In her lifetime, Sarah Jane Manson sold a part of the property embraced in the said deeds, but made no sale or conveyance of the said parcel 15.
On June 18, 1874, William L. Manson filed a creditor's bill
in the said court against Erastus Poulson, trustee; Frederick
L. Manson, William H. Walters and Cecelia M. Manson, stating that all the parties we're citizens of the State of Pennsylvania; that Poulson was sued as trustee by virtue of the deeds
aforesaid, and the other defendants as heirs at law of Sarah
Jane Manson, and that the defendants Frederick L. Manson
and Cecelia M. Manson were minors. The bill alleged that
Sarah Jane Manson, at the time of her death, was seized of
the said parcel of land in her own right, and free from any
right or claim of her husband, and died intestate as to the
same; that the complainant settled her estate in Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, by virtue of said letters of administration, a certified copy of which was filed as an exhibit; that
her personal estate proved insufficient to pay her debts, and
that the complainant made advances out of his own funds
toward the payment of the same, and that such advances,
together with the assets of the estate, paid in full all the
just claims proven against the decedent; that the complainant paid out of his own funds on such account, over and above

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Statement of the Case.

the assets coming into his hands, the sum of $2051.26, which
amount was justly due him; and that no funds remained
from which he might be reimbursed, unless the said real estate
should be sold and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment of his claim. The said deeds were referred to and made
a part of the bill. The complainant prayed that a trustee
might be appointed to sell and convey the property, and out
of the proceeds arising from the sale pay the indebtedness due
the complainant and distribute the balance; th4 t guardians
ad litem might be appointed to appear and defend the interests of each of the said infants; that writs of subpoena might
be issued against each of the said defendants Erastus Poulson,
trustee, Frederick L. Manson, WilliamiH. Walters and Cecelia
M. Manson; and that the complainant might have such other
and further relief as the nature of the case might require.
Process was issued against all of the defendants, and was
returned by the marshal of the District of Columbia not found.
Orders were thereupon entered appoiniting commissioners in
Philadelphia and in Fort Clark, Texas, to appoint guardians
ad item to take the answers of the infant defendants Cecelia
M. Manson and Frederick L. Manson. -These gommissions
were duly executed, and answers of the said infant defendants, by guardian ad litem, were duly filed, whereby all interests and rights of the infants were claimed, but submitted to
the court. Erastus Poulson, trustee, filed an answer, admitting the allegations of the bill, and submitting himself to the
orders of the court. Walter, the other adult defendant, also
filed an answer, wherein he claimed all such interest as he
might be entitled to, and submitted his rights to the court.
The cause was heard upon the pleadings and upon a
certified copy of the confirmed report of the auditor of the
orphans' court of Philadelphia, and on March 18, 1875, a
decree was entered whereby it was ordered and adjudged
that the complainant's claim set forth in said creditor's bill
be recognized as a valid lien against the property described
therein, and that the property be sold, and the proceeds of
sale be applied, first, in satisfaction of all proper taxes and
assessments or other prior incumbrairces due and unpaid upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the property, and secondly, to the payment of the claim of
the complainant; the balance, if any, to be distributed pro
rata among the heirs of Sarah Jane Manson. A trustee was
appointed, who, after having given notice by advertisement,
was to proceed to make the sale as aforesaid, and thereafter
to report the same to the court, and upon final ratification
thereof to "convey to the purchaser or purchasers, by good
and sufficient deed, all right, title and interest of said defendants or any of them, as of said complainant, in and to said
property."
The sale, having been duly made and reported by the
trustee, was finally ratified on May 18, 1875, and the trustee,
W. P. Bell, subsequently conveyed the property to Frederick
Volk, the purchaser. Volk afterwards conveyed the same to
Louis Schmid, Edward Schmid and Alexander Schmid, and
they, by deed dated June 21, 1890, conveyed to Charles C.
Duncanson. The proceeds of sale were applied in accordance
with the terms of the decree, but there does not appear to
have been any balance for distribution among Sarah Jane
Manson's heirs at law.
William L. Manson died in the year 1877.
The present suit was commenced, as aforesaid, by Frederick
L. Manson, who filed his bill of complaint in the said court on
June 20, 1892. The bill set out, in substance, the facts stated
above, and alleged that, upon the death of Sarah Jane Manson, the complainant and Cecelia M. Manson and William II.
Walters became the owners, by purchase, of the said parcel 15,
by virtue of the aforesaid deeds of 1862 and 1865; that nothing set out in the said creditor's bill served to give the court
jurisdiction of the subject-matter thereof, or of any person
mentioned therein, and that the court had no jurisdiction to
make any order in the said proceedings except an order
dismissing the bill.
It was further alleged that in April, 1873, the complainant,
while a minor, enlisted with the consent of his father in the
Fourth United States Cavalry, and remained in the army until
1881, when he was honorably discharged; that during the
intervening time he was stationed at military posts in Texas

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Statement of the Case.

and Kansas, and since his discharge had resided continuously
in Illinois and Kansas; that until August 15, 1891, he had
no knowledge of the said equity proceedings, or of the said
answer or any answer filed or intended to be filed therein in
his behalf, or of the existence of the said deeds of 1862 and
1865, or the interest they vested in him, or of the said condemnation proceedings; that shortly after learning of the
existence of the deeds, and of the record in the said suit,
he filed a petition in the condemnation proceedings, claiming
the proceeds of parcel 15, but that, as he was informed, and
believed, the court was of opinion that it had no jurisdiction
in those proceedings to pass upon contested claims to the said
proceeds.
The complainant further alleged that his sister,
Cecelia M. Manson, left. home shortly after his enlistment
in the army, and sought her own livelihood; that since the
complainant was informed of the property interests in question he had made diligent inquiry concerning the whereabouts of his said sister and of his said brother, William H.
Walters, and had been unable to learn anything concerning
the whereabouts of his sister since 1880, or of his brother for
several years prior thereto, and that therefore he believes
them both to be dead, and to have died intestate, leaving
the complainant their only heir at law.
The complainant prayed the court to declare that all
decrees, orders and proceedings had in the said suit were
null and void for want of, jurisdiction; that the sale made
and the deed executed by the trustee appointed in that suit,
as well as all other deeds executed under the decree therein,
were void and of no effect; and that the complainant was the
legal and equitable owner of parcel 15 at the time of the condemnation of the same, and was entitled to the said fund.
He further prayed that the defendant might be enjoined from
receiving the fund.
The defendant filed his answer on September 6, 1892, insisting that the said court had before it, by due process of law,
all the parties in interest, and therefore had jurisdiction to
enter the said decree and to order the said sale, and that the
defendant's title, acquired by conveyance under the decree,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Appellant.

was valid. He denied the allegations of the complainant as
to the time when he was first informed of the said suit, and
alleged that it would be inequitable if the complainant should
be allowed the benefit of any alleged defect in the said proceedings in view of the fact of his having waited until the
expiration of fourteen years after the death of William L.
Manson, who could have testified as to the complainant's
knowledge of the proceedings, and until the expiration of
sixteen years after the sale before setting up any claim to
the property; that since the sale the respective holders of
the property had been in the open, notorious and adverse possession thereof under the decree; that the complainant had
been guilty of laches, and on that account was not entitled to
relief. The defendant asked for strict proof of the alleged
death and intestacy of the complainant's sister and brother, provided proof of the same should be material. He prayed thatit might have the full benefit of all objections to the bill that
could have been raised and availed of upon demurrer thereto.
Replication was entered and testimony taken, and on
June 14, 1893, after final hearing, a decree was entered
whereby, "it appearing to the court from an examination
of the record in equity cause numbered 3796, referred to
in this cause, that there was nothing set forth and contained therein to give the court jurisdiction to sell the real
estate described therein," it was ordered and adjudged that
the decree entered in the said cause was null and void; that
the deeds made under that decree were void and passed no
title ; that the defendant had no title to parcel 15 at the time
of the condemnation, and was not entitled to the proceeds
thereof; that the defendant's plea of laches be not sustained ;
and that the fund in the ,registry of the court be paid to the
complainant, his solicitor of record, or assigns.
Duncanson thereupon appealed to the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia, where the decree of the court below
was reversed. Manson then appealed to this court.
Mr. Walter HI. Smith for appellant.
was on his brief.

Mr. Charles H. Armes

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. William F. Mattingly for appellee.
Garnett was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the

Mr. Henry Wise

case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only matter for our consideration relates to the validity
of the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia of May 18, 1875, ratifying and confirming the sale of the
property in dispute, and that depends upon the solution of the
question whether that court had jurisdiction of the person of
Frederick L. Manson and of the subject-matter of the suit in
which the decree was entered.
There was no service of a subpoena upon Frederick L. Manson, but there was an appointment of a guardian ad litem by
commissioners appointed by the court; and an answer was
taken and filed by such guardian. Such a metlhod of appointment of a guardian ad litem is spoken of in United States Bank
v. Ritchie, 8 Pet. 128, as according to the most approved usage.
A full discussion of this subject and of the law as it existed in
Maryland prior to the erection of the District of Columbia
will be found in the case of Snowden v. Snowden, 1 Blbnd,
Ch. 550; and the case of Htammond v. Hammond, 2 Bland,
Ch. 306, 350; and wherein the practice of bringing in a nonresident minor by the appointment of a guardian 'ad litem,
and thus subjecting him to a decree for the partition of land,
and for the sale of lands to pay the debts of a decedent, is
recognized as usual and proper.
In the case of Insurance Co. v. Bangs, 103 U. S. 435, this
court held that it was not competent for the Federal courts to
appoint a guardian ad litemn for a non-resident or absent infant
so as to subject him to a purely personal claim. But it was
distinctly admitted that where the infant had an interest in
real estate within the State or district, the rule was otherwise,
and that the power to appoint a guardian ad litem in such a
case was founded in the general powers of courts of equity.
In this case it was said: " Our attention has been called to several cases in the state courts, in which it has been held that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

decree or judgment could not be collaterally attacked, though
rendered in a case where a guardian ad litem had been appointed without service of process on the infant. Such are the
cases of Preston v. Dunn, 25 Alabama, 507; ]Robb v. Irwin, 15
Ohio, 689; and. Gronfier v. Puymnirol, 19 California, 629. All
of them are illustrative of the position we have stated; they
all relate to the interest of the infant in real property in the
State."
In the answer, which was sworn to by-the guardian, Frederick L. Manson said that he was an infant under twenty-one
years of age, that he claimed such interest in the premises as
he was entitled to, and submitted such interest to the protection of the court. This answer was subscribed and sworn to
on the first day of December, 1874. In his testimony, taken in
the present case, Manson claims to have been past twenty-one
years of age when that answer was made. If so, as the evidence is clear that he was present when the appointment 'of
the guardian was made, he must be deemed to have regarded
the answer as his own, and cannot be heard to repudiate it in
a collateral proceeding.
Moreover, it may be claimed with some show of reason that
if the trust deeds of 1862 and 1865 really vested the legal
title to the land in question in Erastus Poulson, subject to the
trusts set forth in those instruments, and such is the theory of
the complainant's bill in the present suit, he, as trustee, represented all the parties beneficially interested, and they, even if
not parties, are bound by the decree unless it is impeached for
fraud or collusion between him and the adverse parties.
In Shaw v. Norfolk County Railroad, 5 Gray, 162, it
was
said:
"The rule of equity pleading that all ,persons interested in
the subject-matter of the suit, and whose rights may be affected
by a final decree; must be made parties to the bill, is subject
to several exceptions, which are as well established as the rule
itself. . . . It has been held that, where persons are made
trustees for the payment of debts and legacies, a suit may be
sustained in which the trustees only are either plaintiffs or
defendants, without joining the creditors or legatees for whom

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

they are trustees, and whose rights and interests are directly
involved in the case. Fenn v. (raig, 3 Y. & Col. Exch., 216.
" Upon this principle, it has been decided by this court
that, in a bill concerning the title to the assets of an insolvent
debtor, it is sufficient, without joining the creditors, to make
the assignees parties, who alone have the right to claim the
property, the legal title being in them; and who are authorized and empowered and whose duty it is, to represent
the interests of and to act for all the creditors interested in
the trust. Stevenson v. Austin, 3 Met. 724. In like manner
it has been determined that a trustee, holding a mortgage in
trust for several creditors, may maintain a bill in equity, to
foreclose, without joining his cestuis que trustent as parties."
See also, Winslow v. ff'innesota & Pacifi'c Railroad, 4
Minnesota, 313, 317, where it is said: "The principle seems
to be well settled that in an action by a creditor to reach
trust property, in the hands of administrators or trustees
who have the control of, and whose duty it is to protect the
property, the cestuis que trustent need not be joined as parties.
The defence of the trustees is their defence, and their presence
in court is not necessary to the protection of their interests."
In the case of Iferrison, Assignee, v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155,
the question was whether the creditors of an insolvent firm,
in whose favor a deed of trust had been executed by the firm,
were bound by a decree against the trustee, and this court
held that " where a trustee is invested with such powers that
his beneficiaries are bound by what is done against him or by
him, they are not necessary parties to a suit against him by a
stranger to defeat the trust in Whole or in part. In such case,
he is in court on their behalf; and they, though not parties,
are concluded by the decree, unless it is impeached for fraud
or collusion between him and the adverse party."
With the proper parties before the court, the next question
is whether the court had such jurisdiction over the subjectmatter of the suit as to protect its decree from attack in a
collateral proceeding.
That the bill in this case is collateral in its nature is obvious.
It does not seek the correction of errors in the proceedings or

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

decree in the former case. Its avowed object is to have the
former proceedings declared null and void, because taken in a
court without jurisdiction of either person or subject-matter.
That the court had jurisdiction to decree the sale of real
estate to pay the debts of a deceased debtor and owner is undeniable. The bill contained averments that the complainant
was a creditor of the estate of Sarah J. Manson; that the
decedent had died intestate as to her real estate situated in
the city of Washington and District of Columbia; that the
personal estate was inadequate to pay the debts of the decedent; that the decedent, at the time of her decease, was
seized of described real estate. These are the usual and necessary allegations of a bill in such a case, and, if found to be
true, plainly warranted a decree of sale.
It is true that Erastus Poulson, trustee, was made a party
defendant, and that the several deeds of 1862 and 1865, creating and defining the trust, were referred to, and, in effect,
made part of the bill, and also copies of the will of the decedent and of letters of administration thereon.
It is claimed, on behalf of the appellant, that the bill did
not sufficiently allege the existence of unpaid debts. The
allegation in question was as follows:
" Your complainant settled the estate of Sarah J. Manson,
deceased, by virtue of certain letters of administration c. t. a.
issued from the office of the register for the probate of wills
and granting letters of administration, in and for the city of
Philadelphia, a certified copy of which is hereto annexed and
marked Complainant, Exhibit A, as part of this bill; and the
personal estate of the said -decedent has been fully aud finally
administered and the same would have proved insufficient and
inadequate to pay the debts of the estate, but your complainant made advances out of his own fund to pay the indebtedness of said estate in full, and said advances, together
with assets of the estate, paid in full all the just claims filed
and proven against said decedent, and your complainant has
paid out of his own funds, on said account, over and above
assets coming into his hands, the sum of two thousand and
fifty-one dollars, which amount is justly due him, and there

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

remains no fund from which to reimburse him, unless the
real estate hereinbefore described be sold, and so much of the
proceeds as may be necessary be applied to the payment of
your complainant's claim."
We are unable to accept the appellant's contention that
these allegations, taken to be true, do not disclose the existence
of debts collectible by proceedings in the district court, and
that an administrator with the will annexed cannot be reimbursed for advances made by him in the process of settling
the estate.
At all events, even if the district court erred in holding
that the allegations and proof were sufficient to establish the
existence of a collectible debt, such an error did not invalidate
the decree so as to subject it to attack by a collateral proceeding.
The next contention, and one that has been ably argued, is
that the bill for a sale showed that the court had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter, because it showed that Sarah J.
Manson, the decedent, had no interest in the realty at the
time the bill was filed ; that she had had a life estate only.
It must be conceded that if the property sold was not owned
by the decedent, and was not subject to her debts, the decree
of sale was void; and it must also be conceded that, by the
allegations of the bill, the court was obliged to take notice of
the contents and legal import of the deed creating and defining Poulson's estate as trustee.
It is admitted that the real estate in question was paid for
by moneys belonging to Mrs. Manson; that, under the terms
, the trust deeds, she had the right to occupy the premises,
Lnd to receive the rents and profits thereof for her sole and
separate use, her receipt alone being a valid discharge for
such rents and profits; that it should be lawful for her, at any
time, and from time to time, during her life to dispose of said
premises either by absolute sale or mortgage thereof as she
might think proper; that, in default of any such sale or mortgage, or so far as the same shall not extend, upon further
trust for such person or persons, and for such estate and in
such parts, shares and proportions, as she, the said Sarah J.
VOL. cLxVI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Manson, should or might, from time to time, by any deed or
instrument of writing, or by her last wilL and testament, under
her hand and seal (which will she was authorized to make),.
limit, direct or appoint, give or devise the same; and in default of any such limitation, direction and appointment, gift or
devise, in trust for such child or children as she should leave
surviving her and the issue of any deceased child, such issue
taking his, her or their parent's or parents' share; and for default of all such children or issue, then in trust for the right
heirs of the said Sarah J. Manson forever; and that all
money which should or might be raised by sale or mortgage
of the said premises or any part thereof should be paid to the
said Sarah J. Manson and be disposed of as she should or
might think best, her receipt being a valid discharge therefor,
the party paying the same not being bound to see to the
application or disposition thereof.
The record does not inform us upon what view of the legal
import of these provisions the district court proceeded in.
awarding the decree of sale. It may have been thought that
such a trust did not protect the real estate described from the
creditors of Sarah J. Manson, either during her life or at her
death. Nichols v. Eaton, 91 U. S. 716. Or the court may
have regarded the will of Sarah J. Manson, though not so
executed as to permit it to be proven in the District of Columbia, as a sufficient exercise of the power of appointment, in
which case, according to a rule well established in England
and in this country, where a person has a general power of
appointment, either by deed or will, and executes this power,
the property appointed is deemed, in equity, part of his assets,
and subject to the demands of his creditors in preference to the
claims of his voluntary appointees or legatees. Clapp v. Ingrahamn, 126 Mass. 200; Brandies v. Cochrane, 112 U. S. 344.
We do not wish to be understood as intimating that either
of such views would have been a sound construction of the
trust deed; but we do say that these were questions before
the district court for decision, and if any error was committed
by that court the remedy was by appeal or by a bill of review
if duly filed.

MANSON v. DUNCANSON.
Opinion of the Court.

We adopt the language and reasoning of the Court of
Appeals in this case:
"It is certainly the policy of the law to maintain judicial
sales, and every reasonable inducement should be indulged to
uphold them, otherwise the public would become distrustful,
and fair prices for property sold under judicial authority
would seldom be obtained. Purchasers, while they are required to take notice of the existence and terms of the decrees or judgments under which they purchase, and as to the
parties bound thereby, cannot be required to become judicial
critics, and to pass in review, at their peril, upon the correctness of the proceedings upon which the judgments or decrees
may be founded. As was pertinently said by the Supreme
Court of the United States, in the case of Thompson v. T"olmie,
2 Pet. 168: ' After a lapse of years, presumptions must be made
in favor of what does not appear. If the purchaser was responsible for the mistakes of the court, in point of fact, after
they had adjudicated upon the facts, and acted upon them, these
sales would be snares for honest men. The purchaser is not
bound to see whether the court was mistaken in the facts of
debts and children. The decree of the orphans' court in a case
within its jurisdiction is reversible only on appeal, and not collaterally in another suit. When a court has jurisdiction it has
a right to decide every question that may arise in the cause;
and whether its decisions be correct or not, its judgment, until
reversed, is regarded as binding in every other court.'
"These principles apply in all respects and with special force
in this case. It was for the court whose decree is attempted
to be impeached, not only to decide on the facts before it, but
upon the construction and legal effect of all deeds and muniments of title upon which the proceeding was based. The
court having general jurisdiction over the subject-matter of
decreeing the sale of real estate of a deceased debtor for the
payment of debts, it had the right and was required to determine the question as to the liability of the property for the
debts, and whether the case was within its jurisdiction; and
though its decision may have been erroneous, it could only be
reversed upon a direct appeal."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

"It is of no aVail," said this court in Cooper v. Reynold8,
10 Wall. 308, "to show that there are errors in the record,
unless they be such as prove that the court had no jurisdiction
of the case, or that the judgment rendered was beyond its
power. This principle has been often held by this court and
by all courts, and it takes rank as an axiom of the law."
And in Cornett v. WilliamS, 20 Wall. 226, it was declared
that "the settled rule of law is that jurisdiction having attached in the original case everything done within the power
of that jurisdiction, when collaterally questioned, is to be held
conclusive of the rights of the parties, unless impeached for
fraud."
Having concluded that the district court had jurisdiction
over the parties and the subject-matter, and that its decree
cannot be successfully impeached in this collateral proceeding,
it is unnecessary to consider other questions suggested in the
record and discussed in the briefs of the counsel.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is
Aj 'rmed.

In re LENNON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 254.

Submitted March 30, 1897. -Deided

April 19, 1897.

Parties to collateral proceedings are bound by the jurisdictional averments
In the record, and will not be permitted to dispute them except so far
as they may have contained a false recital with respect to such parties.
Where the requisite citizenship appears on the face of a bill, the jurisdic'
tion of the court cannot be attacked by evidence dehors the record, in a
collateral proceeding by one who was not a party to the bill.
A bill brought solely to enforce compliance with the Interstate Commerce

Act, and to compel railroad companies to comply with such act by offering proper and reasonable facilities for interchange of traffic with the

company, complainant, and enjoining them from refusing to receive from
complainant, for transportation over their lines, any cars which might
be tendered them, exhibits a case arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States of which a Circuit Court has jurisdiction.

