OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

rules with sufficient accuracy and in substantial conformity
with the views of this court as expressed in Hough v. Railway
Company, 100 U. S. 213; Northern Pacific Railroad v. Hlerbert, 116 U. S. 642; Washington & Georgetown Railroadv.
McDade, 135 U. S. 554; Union Pacific Railway v. Daniels,

152 U. S. 684, 688; 3Vorthern Pacific Railroad v. Babcock,
154 U. S. 190, and other cases.

Exceptions were preserved to portions of the charge, and to
the refusal of the Circuit Court to give certain instructions
requested by defendant, but, taking the charge as a whole, we
are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals rightly held
that no reversible error was committed. These matters fully
appear in the report of the case inthat court, and we do not
feel called upon to rtstate them here in detail.
Judgment afflrmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMKPANY v.
SANDERS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 12.

Argued March 12,IS97.-Decided

April 19, 1897.

Lands were expressly excepted from the grant made in 1864 for the benefit
of the Northern Pacific Railroad, which were .not free frown preiamption
"or other claims or rights" at the time the line of the road was definitely fixed and a plat thereof filed in the office of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office. The general route of the railroad was fixed
February 21, 1872, and its line of defliite location on the 6th of July, 1882.
After the company filed a map of general route, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, under the directions of the Secretary of the Interior,
April 22, 1872, transmitted a diagram of that route to the register and
receiver of the land office at Helena, Montana, with a letter of instructions directing the withdrawal from sale or location, preimption or
homestead entry, all the surveyed and unsurveyed odd-numbered sections of public lands falling within the limits of forty miles as designated on that map. The lands in dispute are within the exterior lines
of'both the general and definite routes of the railroad. Prior to such
definite location certain persons, qualified to purchase mineral lands
under the laws of the United States, entered upon the possession of

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. SANDERS.

621

Counsel for Parties.
these lands, and did "file upon" them "as mineral lands," applying for
patents, and conforming in all respects to the provisions of Chapter 6
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, Title XXXII, relating to
" Mineral Lands and Mining Resources." The company filed a protest
against the perfection of any entry of the lands as mineral lands upon
the ground that they were not mineral lands nor commercially valuable
for any gold or other precious metals therein contained. At the time
of the definite location of the Northern Pacific Railroad and of the filing
of the plat and map thereof in the General Land Office, the applications
for these lands as mineral lands were pending and undetermined, the
applicants claiming, before the proper office, that they were mineral
lands of the United States to which they were entitled, under their
respective applications, and not lands in quality such as was described
in the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company. On the 4th day
of August, 1887, the company presented to the register and receiver of
the proper land office for approval, a list of lands selected by it as having
been granted by the act of Congress, to the end that such lands (the list
including the lands here in dispute) might be patented to it; but that
officer refused to approve such list because of the existence, on the 6th
day of July, 1882, of the above claims to the lands as mineral lands.
It did not appear from the record what became of the several applications set out in the answer to purchase these lands as mineral lands, nor
whether the railroad company appealed from the decision made in 1887
by the local land office at Helena refusing to approve the list presented
of lands claimed by it under the act of Congress. Ifeld, That the above
applications were "claims" within the meaning of the act of July 2,
.1864, granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound on the Pacific coast by
the northern route, and excepting therefrom lands not "free from preemption or other claims or rights at the time the line of said road is
definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office"; consequently, the lands embraced by those
applications did not pass to the railroad company under the grant made
by the above act.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mrh. A. . Browne for plaintiff in error. 31r. A. T. Britton
was on his brief.
Mr. John C. Spooner and Mr. C. IV. Bunn filed a brief for
plaintiff in error.

ilL. I. F. Sanders and Mr. S. S. Burdett for defendants in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.,

Mr. Solicitor General filed a brief on behalf of the United
States.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action *as brought by the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company to recover from the defendants in error, the original
defendants, the possession of section twentyrone, township ten
north of range three west in the county of Lewis and Clarke
in the Stater of Montana.
The railroad company claims title under the act of Congress
of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, c. 217, granting lands tb aid in
the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake
Superior to Puget Sound on the Pacific coast, by the northern
route.
The defendants do not assert title in themselves, but resist
the claim of the railroad company upon the ground that, at
the time of the definite location of the Northern Pacific Railroad and of the filing of the plat thereof in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, such "claims" were
made of record upon the lands in dispute as excluded them
from the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
Congress granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
every alternate section of public land, "not mineral," designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate
sections per mile on each side of tjie railroad line, as the cornpa.ny might adopt, through the Territories of the United States,
and ten alternate sections per mile on each side of the railroad
whenever it passed through any State, "and whenever on the
line thereof, the United States have full title, not reserved,
sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption, or other claims or rights at the time the line qf saiu
road isdefinitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in the office of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and whenever,
prior to said time, any of said sections or parts of sections
shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers or preempted or otherwise disposed of, other
lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof, under

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. SANDERS.

623

Opinion of the Court.

the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles
beyond the limits of said alternate sections...
..Provided further, That all mineral lands be, and the same are
hereby, excluded from the operations of this act, and in lieu
thereof a like quantity of unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural lands, in odd-numbered sections, nearest to the line
of said road may be selected as above provided: And provided further, That the word 'mineral,' when it occurs in this
act, shall not be held to include iron and coal." ยง 3,.
The sixth section directed the lands to be surveyed for forty
miles in width on both sides of the entire line of the road after
the general route was fixed and as fast as was required by the
construction of the railroad, and provided that "the odd sections of land, hereby granted shall not be liable to sale, or entry or preemption, before or after they are surveyed, except
by said compariy, as provided in this act; but the provisions
of the act of September, eighteen hundred and forty-one, granting preemption rights, and the acts amendatory thereof, and
of the act entitled 'An act to secure homesteads to actual
settlers on the public domain,' approved May twenty, eighteen
hundred and sixty-two, shall be, and the same are hereby, extended to all other lands on the line of said road, when surveyed, excepting those hereby granted to said company. And
the reserved alternate sections shall not be sold by the government at a price less than two dollars and fifty cents per acre,
when offered for sale." ยง 6.
The amended complaint alleged that the railroad company
duly accepted the terms and conditions of the act of Congress;
that the general route of the railroad extending through the
State of Montana was duly fixed February 21, 1872; that
the land in dispute was on and within forty miles of such
general route, and at that date was "public land to which the
United States had full title, not reserved, sold, granted or
otherwise appropriated, and free from preimption or other
claims or rights "; that at the date of the passage of the act
of 1864, as well as when said general route was fixed, no part
of the land in controversy was "known mineral land," and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.,

"was not mineral land, nor was any part of said last-described
land within any exceptions from said grant"; that on July
6, 1882, the railroad company definitely fixed the line of its
railroad, extending opposite to and past said section 21, township 10 north, range 3 west, and filed a plat thereof in the
office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; that
"said land is on and within forty miles of said line of railroad
so definitely fixed"; that thereafter the company duly constructed and completed that portion of its railroad and telegraph line extending over and along its line of definite location,
whereupon the President of the United States appointed
three commissioners to examine the same, who reported that
that portion of the line had been completed in a good, substantial and workmanlike manner; that !he President of the
United States duly accepted said line of road and telegraph so
constructed and completed; that at the date of so definitely
locating the'line of railroad, and at the time of the filing Of
the plat thereof in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, as above stated, the land in dispute was "not
known" to be mineral land, but was agricultural land to
'which "the United States had full title, not reserved, sold,
granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preeimption
or other claims or rights.
The defendants, in their answer, " confessing that said
premises did not contain gold or other precious metals in paying quantities or in such quantity as to make the same, or
any part thereof, commercially valuable therefor, nevertheless
say, as to the northeast quarter of section 21, that heretofore,
to wit, on the second day of August, 1880, Theodore I1. Kleinschmidt, Edward W. Knight, Henry M. Parchen, Charles K.
Wells, George P. Reeves, David H. Cuthbert, Cornelius Hedg es
and Stephen E. Atkinson, each being then and there a citizen
of thq United States, and each having theretofore filed upon a
certain separate twenty acres on the northeast quarter of said
section according to, the laws of the Territory of Montana,
and the mining usages and customs then in force in the unorganized mining district in which said land was situated, and
being then in all respects qualified to enter mineral land under

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

v. SANDERS.

625

Opinion of the Court.

the laws of the United States, did enter into the possession of,
and did enter in the United States land office, and -did file
upon the said quarter of said section in the land office of the
United States, at Helena, Montana, in which district said land
was situate, as mineral land, and did apply for a patent
therefor, and did then and there and in due form file an
,application to purchase said premises as such mineral land, and
did then and there make oath before the register and receiver
of said land office that they had discovered mineral thereon
and had located the said quarter section as mineral land and
claimed the same as such for the valuable mineral deposits
therein, and that they had complied with chapter 6 of title
XXXII of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which said
application was so filed in the land office at Helena, Montana,
under the oath of the said applicants, showing that they had
complied with the law aforesaid, and describing the same by
legal subdivisions, and they did then and there prior to filing
said application post in a conspicuous place, on the claim, embraced therein, a copy of said application and notice hereinafter mentioned, which said notice did then and there remain
conspicuously posted, on said premises during the period of
publication hereafter mentioned, and they did then and there
file with their said application in said land office, an affidavit
of two persons that such notice had been so duly posted, and
did then and there file a copy of said notice in the land office
with the register and receiver thereof, and by said application they requested to be permitted to purchase the same as
mineral land, and they then and there undertook and offered
to maintain by proof that the said premises were valuable for
the gold contained therein and were mineral lands of the
United States, to which they were entitled under the laws
thereof, and that they had done the requisite amount of work
thereon, to wit, work of the value of five hundred dollars, and
were entitled to a patent therefor, which said application and
affidavit and notice were then and there entered of record in
said United States land office by the register and receiver
thereof, and the said application was set for a hearing upon
their said proofs to be produced, and notice of such hearing in
VOL. cLxvi-4o

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

due form of law was given by the register and receiver in the
proper newspaper designated for that purpose, and was duly
published therein, which said entry, application, affidavits and
notice were in all respects formal according to law, and the
said application was set down for a hearing in said land office
by the register and receiver thereof at the expiration of the
period of time prescribed in said notice and at the date at
which the same was so set, the said plaintiff having theretofore
filed a protest against the perfection of the said entry, for the
reason, as claimed by said plaintiff, that the same were not
mineral land or commercially valuable for the gold or other
precious metals therein contained; that said application was
continued thereafter by.the consent of parties or otherwise,
from time to time, and was asserted and remained pending on
the 6th day of July, 1882, and thereafter the said applicants
on the 6th day of July, 1882, and thereafter as theretofore,
averring their ability to prove that the said land was commercially valuable for the gold therein contained, and was mineral land within the definition of that phrase contained in
the act granting lands to said plaintiff mentioned in, said
amended complaint, and the said applicants were on the date
last aforesaid claiming, affirming and undertaking to maintain
on their application for said premises in said landt office, that
the same was mineral land of the United States, to which
they were entitled thereunder, and was not land in quality
such as was described in the grant to-the said plaintiff."
The answer alleged like filings, applications, etc., under the
mining laws of the United States, as follows: By George P.
Reeves, Helen H. Reeves, Laura C. Ballou, John W. Eddy,
Evelyn M. Eddy, Edward W. Knight, Theodosia M. Knight
and Anna Natolia King, August 12, 1880, upon twenty acres
in the-northwest quarter of said section 21; by Theodore Kleinschmidt, Henry M. Parchen, David H. Cuthbert, Stephen E.
Atkinson, Lucius I. Rosecrauns, Emma M. Parchen, Mary M.
Kleinschmidt and Annie E. Cuthbert, February 19, 1881, upon
twenty acres in the southwest quarterof the same section; and
by Cornelius Hedges, Thomas A. H. Hay, Mary L. Guthrie,
Patrick Quinn, Louis A. Walker, William D. Wheeler, Edna L.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. SANDERS.

627

Opinion of the Court.

Hedges and George E. Carpenter, March 13, 1880, upon twenty
acres of the southeast quarter of the same section.
Referring to the proceedings in the office of the county clerk
and recorder of the county of Lewis and Clarke, Montana, in
which county the premises are situate, and in the United
States land office at Helena, the answer stated that they were
in the form prescribed by law for the claim and entry of placer
mining claims, and that thereafter, on the 4th day of August,
1887, the plaintiff presented to the said register and receiver a
list of lands selected by it as having been granted by the act
aforementioned, "to be approved to the end that the said
premises in said list described might [be] certified to it for
patent, which list includes said section twenty-one, but to
approve said list or certify said lands to said company the
said register and receiver and the Land Department of the
United States refused because of the existence on the 6th day
of July, 1882, of the foregoing claims to the same as mineral
lands" ; that on the 21st day of February, 1872, the plaintiff
filed a map of the general route of its road in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office; that thereafter
the Commissioner, under the directions of the Secretary of the
Interior, duly prepared a plat showing that portion of the
preliminary or general route of the Northern Pacific Railroad
extending through the United States land district of Helena,
and designated thereon lines showing the limits of the land
grant to the plaintiff, for forty miles in width on each side of
said line of general route; that on April 22, 1872, the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the directions of the
Secretary of the Iiterior, duly transmitted said diagram to the
register and receiver of the United States district land office
at Helena, with instructions "to withdraw from sale or location, preemption or homestead entry, all the surveyed and
unsurveyed odd-numbered sections of public lands falling
within the limits of forty miles, as designated on this map" ;
and that the said letter of instructions and diagram were
received at the United States district land office at Helena,
May 6, 1872.
The plaintiff demurred to the answer and the demurrer

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

was overruled. 46 Fed. Rep. 239. A rehearing having been
granted, and the cause finally heard upon the amended coinplaint, the answer and the demurrer to the answer, a judgment
was rendered for the defendants. 47 Fed. Rep. 604. That
judgment was affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. 7 U. S.
App. 47.
It appears from the above statement of the case:
That lands were expressly excepted from the grant made
for the benefit of the Northern Pacific Railroad that were not
free from preemption "or other claims or rights" at the time
the line of the road was definitely fixed and a plat thereof
filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office;
That the general route of the Northern Pacific Railroad was
fixed February 21, 1872, and its line of definite location was
established and a plat thereof filed on the 6th day of July,
1882;
That after the railroad company filed its map of general
route showing the limits of such route for forty miles in width
on each side of its line, the Commissioner of the General Land
'Office, under the directions of the Secretary of the Interior,
April 22, 1872, transmitted a diagram of such route to the register and receiver of the land office at Helena, Montana, with
a letter of instructions, directibg the withdrawal from sale or
location, preemption or homestead entry, of all the surveyed
and unsurveyed odd-numbered sections of public lands falling
within the limits of forty miles as designated on that map'
That the lands in dispute are within the exterior lines of
both the general and definite routes of the railroad ;
That prior to such definite location certain persons, qualified
to enter mineral lands under the laws of the United States;
entered upon the possession of the lands in dispute, and did
"file upon" them "as mineral lands," applying for patents
therefor, and conforming in all respects to the provisions of
Chapter 6 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, Title
XXXII, relating to "Mineral Lands and Mining Resources";
That the railroad company filed in the proper office a protest against the perfection of any entry of these lands as

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. SANDERS.

629

Opinion of the Court.

mineral lands upon the ground that they were not mineral
lands nor commercially valuable for any gold or other precious
metals therein contained;
That at the time of the definite location of the Northern
Pacific Railroad, and of the filing of the plat and map thereof
in the General Land Office, on the 6th day of July, 1882, the
applications for these lands as mineral lands were pending
and undetermined, the applicants claiming, affirming and
undertaking to maintain before the proper office, that they
were mineral lands of the United States to which they were
entitled under their respective applications, and not lands in
quality such as were described in the grant to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company; and,
That on the 4th day of August, 1887, the railroad company
presented to the register and receiver of the proper land office,
for approval, a list of lands selected under the above act of
Congress, to the end that they might be patented to it; but
that officer refused to approve such list (which included the
lands here in dispute) because of the existence, on the 6th day
of July, 1882, of the above claims to the lands as mineral
lands.
It does not appear from the record what became of the
several applications set out in the answer to purchase these
lands as mineral lands, nor whether the railroad company
appealed from the decision made in 1887 by the local land
office at Helena refusing to approve the list presented of
lands claimed by it under the act of Congress.
We have seen that the act of July 2, 1864, under which
the railroad company claims title, excluded from the grant
made by it all lands that were not, at the time the line of the
'roadwas dejinitelyfixed, free from preemption "or other clai ms
or rights"; and the demurrer to the answer admits that at
that time there were claims pending in the land office, undetermined, to purchase these lands as mineral lands, and such
applications conformed in all respects to the laws of the
United States then in force relating to mineral lands.
But it is said that no account is to be taken of those applications, for the reason that the present defendants, who had

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

nothing to do with them, and had no interest in them, confess, in their answer, that the lands in question " did not
contain gold or other precious metals in paying quantities
or in such quantity as to make the same, or any part thereof,
commercially valuable therefor"; that the lands are, therefore, to be regarded as agricultural lands that passed to the
company under the act of 1864, and were preserved to it by
the filing of the map of the general route in 1872 and by
their withdrawal in that year by the General Land Office
"from sale or location, pregmption or homestead entry."
This view oVerlooks the fact that the express declaration of
Congress was that no public lands should pass to the company
to which, at the time of the definite location of the road, the
United States did not have title free from prei~mption "or
other claims or rights." If the applications made in 1880
and 1881, to purchase different parts of the section in question, and which were pending and undisposed of in 18S2
when the company filed its map of definite location, constituted "claims," within the meaning of the act of 1864, then
it was not competent for the defendants, by any admission
they might make, for whatever purpose made, as to the
quality of these lands, whether mineral or not, to eliminate
from the case the essential fact that these "claims" existed
of record when the line of the road was definitely located.
Indeed, if it now appeared that the land office finally adjudged, after the definite location of the road, that the lands
embraced by those applications were not mineral, they could
not be held to have passed to the railroad company under the
act of 1864, for the reason that they were not, at the time of
such definite location, free from preemption or "other claims
or rights."
Any other interpretation would defeat the evident purpose
of Congress in excepting from railroad grants lands upon
which claims existed of record at the time the road to be
What that purpose was has
aided was definitely located.
been frequently adverted to by this court. In Kansas Pacific
Railway v. Dunneyer, 113 IT. S. 629, 639, 640, 641, 644, which
case involved the construction of an act of Congress exciud-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. SANDERS.

631

Opinion of the Court.

ing from a railroad grant public lands sold, reserved or
otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to which a
preemption or homestead claim may have attached at the
time the line of its road was definitely fixed, this court said :
"It is argued by the company, that, although Miller's homestead entry had attached to the land, within the meaning of
the excepting clause of the grant, before the line of definite
location was filed by it, yet when Miller abandoned his claim,
so that it no longer existed, the exception no longer operated,
and the land reverted to the company - that the grant by its
inherent force reasserted itself and extended to or covered the
land as though it had never been within the exception.
This filing of the map of definite location furnished also the
means of determining what lands had previously to that
moment been sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the
United States, and to which a preemption or homestead claim
had attached; for, by examining the plats of this land in the
office of the register and receiver, or in the General Land
Office, it could readily have been seen if any of the odd sections within ten miles of the line had been sold, or disposed
of, or reserved, or a homestead or preemption claim had attached to any of them. In regard to all such sections they
were not granted." Again: "The company had no absolute
right until the road was built, or that part of it which came
through the land in question. The homestead man had five
years of residence and cultivation to perform before his right
became absolute. The preemptor had similar duties to perform in regard to cultivation, residence, etc., for a shorter
period, and then payment of the price of the land. It is not
conceivable that Congress intended to place these parties as
contestants for the land, with the right in each to require
proof from the other of complete performance of its obligation. Least of all is it to be supposed that it was intended to
raise up, in antagonism to all the actual settlers on the soil,
whom it had invited to its occupation, this great corporation,
with an interest to defeat their claims, and to come between
them and the Government as to the performance of their
obligations.
The reasonable purpose of the Government

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

undoubtedly is that which it expressed, namely, while we
are giving liberally to the railroad company, we do not give
any lands we have already sold, or to which, according to
our laws, we have permitted a preemption or homestead right
to attach. No right to such land passes by this grant. No
interest in the railroad company attaches to this land or is to
be founded on this statute. Such is the clear and necessary
meaning of the words that there is granted every alternate
section of odd numbers to which these rights have not
attached. It necessarily means that, if such rights have
attached, they are not granted."
Finally, and as showing
the meaning of the word "attached," the court said: "In
the case before us a claim was made and filed in the land
office, and there recognized, before the line of the company's
road was located. That claim was an existing one of public
record in favor of Miller when the map of plaintiff in error
was filed. In the language of the act of Congress this home-.
stead claim had attached to the land,-and it therefore did not
pass by the grant. . . . The right of the homestead having attached to the land, it was excepted out of the grant as
much as if in a deed it had been excluded from the conveyance
by metes and bounds."
In Hastings & Dakota -Railroadv. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357,
366, after an extended reference to-the authorities and to the
uniform practice of the Land Department, the court concluded:
"For the foregoing reasons we concur with the court below
that Turner's homestead entry excepted the land from the
operation of the railroad grant ; and that upon the cancellation of that entry the tract iri question did not inure to the
benefit of the company, but reverted to the Government and
became a part of the public domain, subject to appropriation
by the first legal applicant."
In Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85, 92-93, where the contest
was between a railroad grant of public lands and a homestead entry of record at the time of the filing of the company's map of definite location, the question now before us
was again fully considered, and this principle deduced from
the former cases: '"Although these cases are none of thein

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. SANDERS.

633

Opinion of the Court.

exactly like the one before us, yet the principle to be deduced
from them is that when on the records of the local land office
there is an existing claim on the part of an individual under
the homestead or preemption law, which has been recognized
by the officers of the Government and has not been cancelled
or set aside, the tract in respect to which that claim is existing is excepted from the operation of a railroad land grant
containing the ordinary excepting clauses, and this notwithstanding such claim may not be enforceable by the claimant,
and is subject to cancellation by the Government at its own
suggestion, or upon the application of other parties. It was
not the intention of Congress to open a controversy between
.the claimant and the railroad company' as to the validity of the
former's claim. It was enough that the claim existed, and
the question of its validity was a matter to be settled between
the Government and the claimant, in respect to which the
railroad company was not permitted to be heard."
Other cases are to the same effect as those to which we
have above referred. Sioux City &c. Land Co. v. Griftey, 143
U. S. 32, 34 ; Shiver v. United States, 159 U. S. 491, 494.
The principles announced in these cases fully sustain the
proposition that if the above applications, of record, to purchase these lands as mineral lands were "claims" within the
meaning of the act of July 2, 1864, then the lands were excepted from the operation of that act, and could not have
come under the grant to the railroad company even if, subsequently to the definite location of the road, the applications
for them were finally rejected because of the fact that, they
were ascertained not to be mineral lands.
It is necessary now to inquire whether the applications in
1880 and 1881 to purchase these lands as mineral lands were
"claims" within the meaning of the act of.1864.
Here we are met with the suggestion that when that act
was passed no statute of the United States provided for the
purchase of lands as mineral lands, and that when the railroad
company filed its map of general route in 1872, and when the
surveyed or unsurveyed odd-numbered sections within the
exterior lines of that route were withdrawn bythe land

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

office from "sale or location, preemption or homestead
entry," no application was on file to purchase these lands as
mineral lands.
It is quite true that at the time of the passage of the act of
1864 there was no act of Congress under which a right or
claim could be initiated to mineral lands. But as said by Mr.
Justice Field in Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453, 458, "for
eighteen years-from 1848 to 1866-the regulations and
customs of miners, as enforced and moulded by the courts and
sanctioned by the legislation of the States, constituted the law
governing property in mines and in water on the public mineral
lands." And on July 26, 1866, before the general route of the
Northern Pacific iRailroad was fixed, Congress passed an act
looking to a sale of the mineral lands of the United States,
and declared them to be "free and open to exploration and
occupation by citizens of the United States and those who
have declared their intention to become citizens, subject to
such regulations as may be prescribed by law and the local
customs or rules of miners in the several mining districts so far
as the same were not in conflict with the laws of the United
States." 14 Stat. 251, c. 262. But prior to the passage of
that act certain important rights of miners had been recognized. In Broder v. Water Co., 101 U. S. 274, 276, it was said
to be the established doctrine of this court that the rights of
miners, who had taken possession of mines and worked and
developed them, were rights which the Government had by
its conduct recognized and encouraged, and was bound to protect, before the passage of the act of 1866. The act of 1866
was held to be a statutory recognition of the right to explore
for mineral lands. That right was in nowise impaired, in respect of the lands in question, by the subsequent acceptance
from the Northern Pacific Railroad Company of its map of
general route. And that act was supplemented by the act of
May 10, 1872, c. 152. 17 Stat. 91. The company acquired,
by fixing its general route, only an inchoate right to the oddnumbered sections granted by Congress, and no right attached
to any specific section until the road was definitely located
and the map thereof filed and accepted. Until such definite

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. SANDERS.

635

Opinion of the Court.

location it was competent for Congress to dispose of the public lands on the general route of the road as it saw proper.
Provision for the indemnification of the company in such an
emergency was made by a clause in the act of 1864, providing
that wherever, prior to the date of definite location, "any of
said sections or parts of sections shall have been granted, sold,
reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted or
otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected by said
company in lieu thereof, under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd
numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of such
alternate sections." 13 Stat. 368. Hence it was said in Barden
v. Northern Pacife Railroad Compdny, 154 U. S. 288, 320,
in which case the act of 1864 was construed, that the privilege
of exploring for mineral lands was in full force at the time
of the location of the definite line of road, and was a right
reserved and excepted out of the grant at that time.
In this view-of the soundness of which we entertain no
doubt -it
would seem to be clear that the formal applications
made in 1880 and 1881, under the statutes then and still in
force, to purchase these lands as mineral lands, were "claims"
within the meaning of the 'third section of the act of 1864.
It was admitted by the demurrer that applicants made oath,
before the proper officer, that they had discovered mineral
thereon and had located the said quarter section as mineral
land, and claimed the same as having valuable mineral deposits
thereon. Upon tho present record it cannot be'said that
those applications were not made in good faith. Whether the
lands sought to be purchased as mineral lands were of that
character was a matter for the determination, in the first
instance, of the Land Department; and there was jurisdiction
in that department to pass upon every question arising upon
applications to purchase them as mineral lands. Htow then
can it be said that such applications, filed and of record before
the definite location of the road, were not "claims" within
the meaning of the act of 1864? As the lands in question
were not free from those claims at the time the plaintiff
definitely located its line of road, it is of no consequence what

OCTOBER TERM\,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

disposition was or has been made of the claims subsequent to
that date.
The only ground upon which a contrary view, can be
rested is the provision in the sixth section of the act of 1864,
that "the odd sections of land hereby granted shall not be
liable to sale or entry or preemption before or after they are
surveyed, except by said company, as provided by this act."
But this section is not to be construed without reference to
other sections of the act. It must be taken in connection
with section three, which manifestly contemplated that rights
of preemption or other claims and rights might accrue or
become attached to the lands granted after the general route
of the road was fixed and before the line of definite location was established. Literally interpreted, the words above
quoted from section six would tie the hands of the Government so that even it could not sell any of the odd-numbered
sections of the lands after the general route was fixed -an
interpretation wholly inadmissible in view of the provisions
in the third section. The third and sixth sections must be
taken together, and so taken it must be adjudged that nothing
in the sixth section prevented the Government from disposing
of any of the lands prior to the fixing of the line of definite
location, or, for the reasons stated, from receiving', under the
existing statutes, applications to purchase such lands as mineral lands.
Much was said at the bar as to the decision of this court in
Buttz v. Nort4ern Paci9fc Railroad, 119 U. S. 55. On one
side it is said that that case construes the sixth section
of the act of 1861 as excluding the possibility of any right
being acquired adversely to the railroad company to aft oddnumbered section embraced by the exterior lines of the general route after that route had been established. On the
other side it is contended that the only point necessary to be
determined and the only one judicially determined in that
case was that the defendant could not initiate a preemption
right to the land there in dispute so long as the Indian title
referred to in the opinion was unextinguished. Without stopping to examine these contentions, it is sufficient to say that

WHITNEY v. FOX.
Syllabus.

the Battp case involved no inquiry as to the respective rights
of the railroad company under the act of 1864, and of parties
making applications in due form prior to the definite location
of its road to purchase lands as mineral lands that were within
the exterior lines of its general route. Mr. Justice Field
delivered the opinion in the Buttz case, and, speaking for the
court in Barden. v. Northern, Pacific Railroad Comnany,
above cited, stated that the grant in that act excepted the
privilege of exploring for mineral lands.
For the reasons stated, we adjudge that the lands in question were excluded from the grant of 1864 by reason of the
pendency of record, at the time of the definite location of
the plaintiff's road, of applications to purchase them as mineral lands, such applications being in the form prescribed by
the acts of Congress that related to such lands, and undetermined when the company filed its map of definite location.
The judgment below is
Afffirmed.

WHITNEY v. FOX.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 6S.

Argued March 3, 5, 1897. -Decided

April 19, 1897.

It is the ordinary rule to accept the interpretation given to a statute by the
courts of the country by which it was originally adopted; but the rule is not
an absolute one to be followed under all circumstances. In this case the
court accepts the construction given by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah to a statute of that Territory disqualifying certain persons
as witnesses, rather than the construction placed upon a like statute by
the Supreme Court of California, although the Utah statute was apparently taken from the statute of California.
Equity will sometimes refuse relief where a shorter time than that prescribed by the statute of limitations has elapsed without suit. It ought
always to do so where, as in this case, the delay in the assertion of rights
is not adequately explained, and such circumstances have intervened in
the condition of the adverse party as to render it unjust to him or to his
estate that a court of equity should assist the plaintiff. In this case the

plaintiff, seeking the aid of equity, forbore for an unreasonably long time

