OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of'the Court.

within the State of Minnesbta, and could have stopped at the
county seat of Pine county without deviating from its course;
and the statute of Minnesota expressly provides that "this act
shall not apply to through railroad trains entering this State
from any other State, or to transcontinental trains of any railroad."
Judgment afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.

In re HIEN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 16. Original.

Argued March 22, 1897. -Decided

April 12, 1897.

The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia was duly authorized by
§ 6 of the act creating the court, as well as by § 6 as amended by the act
of July 30, 1894, to make rules limiting the time of taking appeals to the

court from the decisions of the Commissioner of Patents; and there was
no restriction on this power by reason of Rev. Stat. § 4894.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. I. Singleton for petitioner.
on his brief.

Mr. F. V. Ritter was

3fr. T. A. Megrath, by special leave, opposing.
MR.
court.

CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

The Commissioner of Patents, in an interference proceeding
between Philip Hien and one William A. Pungs, awarded
priority of the invention in controversy to Pungs, June 9,
1894. lien gave notice to the Commissibner, March 12,
1896, of an appeal from his decision, under § 4912 of the
Revised Statutes, to the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, and filed his petition of appeal in that court,

IN

RE HIEN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

June 2, 1896, which was dismissed on the third day of the
following December because the appeal was not taken within
the time prescribed by the rules of the court. 24 Wash. Law
Rep. 827. December 12, 1896, Hien moved that his appeal
be reinstated on the ground that the Court of Appeals had
no authority to make the rules in question, which was denied.
25 Wash. Law Rep. 8. Hien then applied to this court for
leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus; leave was
granted; the petition filed; and a rule to show cause entered,
to which return was duly made.
Section 780 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia, approved June 22, 1874, reads:
"SEC. 780. The Supreme Court, sitting in banc, shall have
jurisdiction of and shall hear and determine all appeals from
the decisions ot the Commissioner of Patents, in accordance
with the provisions of sections forty-nine hundred and eleven
to section forty-nine hundred and fifteen, inclusive, of chapter

one, Title LX, of. the Revised Statutes,
MARKS

'PATENTS,

TRADE-

AND COPY-RIGHTS.' )

The sections of the Revised Statutes thus referred to are as
follows:
"SEC. 4911. If such party, except a party to an interference,
is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner, he may
appeal to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
sitting in bane.
"SEc. 4912. When an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, the appellant shall give notice
thereof to the Commissioner, and file in the Patent Office,
within such time as the Commissioner shall appoint, his reasons
of appeal, specifically set forth in writing.
"SEc. 4913. The court shall, before hearing such appeal, give
notice to the Commissioner of the time and place of the hearing, and on receiving such notice the Commissioner shall give
notice of such time and place in such manner as the court
may prescribe, to all parties who appear to be interested
therein. The party appealing shall lay before the court
certified copies of, all the original papers and evidence in the
case, and the Commissioner shall furnish the court with the
VOL. CLXVi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

grounds of his decision, fully set forth in writing, touching all
the points involved by the reasons of appeal. And at the
request of any party interested, or of the court, the Commissioner and the examiners may be examined under oath, in
explanation of the principles of the thing for which a patent
is demanded.
"SEc. 4914. The court, on petition, shall hear and determine such appeal, and revise the decision appealed from in a
summary way, upon the evidence produced before the Commissioner, at such early and convenient time as the court may
appoint; and the revision shall be confined to the points set
forth in the reasons of appeal. After hearing the case the
court shall return to the Commissioner a certificate of its
proceedings and decision, which shall be entered of record in
the Patent Office, and shall govern the further proceedings'in
the case. But no opinion or decision of the court in any such
case shall preclude any person interested from the right to
contest the validity of such patent in any court wherein the
same may be called in question.
" SEC. 4915. Whenever a patent on application is refused,
either by the Commissioner of Patents or by the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia upon appeal from the
Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy by bill in
equity; and the court having cognizance thereof, on notice
to adverse parties and other due proceedings had, may adjudge that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to
receive a patent for his invention, as specified in his claim,
or for any part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear.
And such adjudication, if it be in favor of the right of the
applicant, shall authorize the Commissioner to issue such
patent on the applicant filing in the Patent Office a copy
of the adjudication, and otherwise complying with the
requirements of law. In all cases, where there is no opposing party, a copy of the bill shall be served on the Commissioner; and all the expenses of the proceeding shall be
paid by the applicant, whether the hinal decision is in his
favor or not."
Sections 6 and 9 of the act to establish the Court of Appeals

IN

RE HIEN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Cgurt.

for the District of Columbia, approved February 9, 1893, c. 74,
27 Stat. 434, provided:
" SEc. 6. That the said Court of Appeals shall establish a
term of the court during each and every month in each year
excepting the months of July and August, and it shall make
such rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper for
tile transaction of the business to be brought before it, and
for tile time and method of the entry of appeals and for giving notice of appeals thereto from the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, and such other rules and regulations as
may be necessary and proper in the premises."
"SEc. 9. That the determination of appeals from the decision of the Commissioner of Patents, now vested in the
general term of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in pursuance of the provisions of section seven hundred
and eighty of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to the District of Columbia, shall hereafter be and the
same is hereby vested in the Court of Appeals created by this
act; and in addition, any party aggrieved by a decision of the
Commissioner of Patents in any interference case may appeal
therefrom to said Court of Appeals."
By the act of July 30, 1894, c. 172, 28 Stat. 160, section six
was amended so as to read as follows:
"SEc. 6. That said Court of Appeals shall establish by rule
of court such terms of the court in each year as to it may
seem necessary: Provided, lwwever, That there shall be at
least three terms in each year, and it shall make such rules
and regulations as may be necessary and proper for the
transaction of its business and the taking of appeals to said
court."
The Court of Appeals, June 5, 1893, promulgated a set of
rules, among which vere these:
"Rule IX-1. No order, judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or of any justice
thereof, shall be reviewed by the Court of Appeals, unless the
appeal shall be taken within twenty days, Sundays excluded,
after the order, judgment or decree complained of shall have
been made or pronounced."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Rure XIX - 6. The appeals from the Commissioner of
Patents shall be subject to all the rules of this court provided for other cases therein, except where such rules, from
the nature of the case, or by reason of special provisions
inconsistent therewith, are not applicable."
The Commissioner of Patents issued an order May 16, 1894,
that "All Examiners are hereby directed to withhold from
issue the application of the prevailing party in interference
cases for thirty days from the date of final issue in order that
an appeal may be taken to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, if desired." This order was published in
the Official Gazette of June 5, 1894. (Off. Gazette, Vol. 67,
P. 1195.)
The Court of Appeals promulgated a-new set of rules September 29, 1894, of which Rule 20 related to appeals from the
Commissioner of Patents, the second subdivision reading thus:
"XX - 2. The appellant, upon complying with the preceding section of this rule, shall file in the case a petition,
addressed to the court, in which he shall briefly set forth
and show that he has complied with the requirements of
sections 4912 and 4913 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, to entitle him to an appeal, and praying that his appeal
may be heard upon and for the reasons assigned therefor to the
Commissioner; and said appeal shall be taken within forty days
from the date of the ruling or order appealed from, and not
afterwards."
The order of May 16, 1894, was modified by the Commissioner, April 27, 1896, -so as to direct the Examiners to
withhold from issue the application of the prev'ailing party
in interference cases for forty-five days from the date of the
final decision.
The contention is that the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia was without authority to promulgate a rule limiting the time of taking appeals from the decisions of' the Commissioner of Patents; and that, by analogy, two years were
allowed therefor in view of § 4891 of the Revised Statutes.
The general rule undoubtedly is that courts of justice possess the inherent power to make and frame -reasonable rules

IN RE HIEN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

not conflicting with express statute; but apaLrt from that we
think it clear that the Court of Appeals was duly authorized by
§ 6, of the act creating the court, as well as by § 6, as amended
by the act of July 30, 1894, to make rules limiting the time of
taking appeals to the court from the decisions of the Commissioner of Patents. Since by § 9 the Court of Appeals was
vested with authority to review such decisions, we do not
think it can properly be held that under the original act the
authority in respect of appeals was limited only to appeals
from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or to
the conduct of appeals after they had come beforethe appellate court.
Of the rules of June 5, 1893, Rule XIX is to be read with
Rule IX, as limiting the time of appeals to the court from the
decisions of the Commissioner to tkventy days, exclusive of Sundays, which time was enlarged to forty days by Rule XX, promulgated September 29, 1894, the rule specifically declaring
that such appeals could not be taken after the expiration of
the time prescribed.
And if the original act were not so comprehensive as above
indicated, the result would be the same under the amendatory
act, in respect of the power imparted by which there can be
no question. The petitioner complied neither with the rule
of June 5, 1893, nor with the rule of September 29, 1894, and
if not governed by the former was certainly subject to the
latter, for although this was promulgated after the decision
of the Comraissioner of Patents in the case, the Court of
Appeals was quite right in holding that "the right of appeal
is not a vested right that may not be altered by statute, or by
rule of court made in pursuance of statutory authority to enact
such i'ules."
In compliance with section 4912 of the Revised Statutes,
Hien gave notice to the Commissioner of Patents, under date
of May 12, 1896, of an appeal from his decision to the Court of
Appeals, and filed his petition, under the rule, on June 2.
These proceedings, if they had been in time, amounted to the
taking of an appeal, but as they were not "*itiatedand prosecuted within the time limited, they were ineffectual. We have

OCTOBER TERM,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

no doubt that the Court of Appeals had authority, in regulating the taking of appeals, to limit the time in which the conditions of such taking had to be performed; and that there was
no restriction thereon by reason of section 4894 of the Revised
Statutes as contended.
That section is as follows:
"Sxc. 4894. All applications for patents shall be completed
and prepared for examination within two years after the filing
of the application, and in default thereof, or upon failure of
the applicant to prosecute the same within two years after
any action therein, of which notice shall have been given to
the applicant, they shall be regarded as abandoned by the
parties thereto, unless it be shown to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner of Patents that such delay was unavoidable."
This has no relation to the limitation on appeals under section 4911, but has reference solely to the abandonment of an
application by failure to prosecute it.
In Gandy v. M4arble, 122 U. S. 432, which was a bill in
equity under section 4915 of the Revised Statutes, to obtain
an adjudication in favor of the granting of a patent, we held
that while such a proceeding was a suit according to the
ordinary course of equity practice and procedure, and not a
technical appeal from the Patent Office, confined to the case
as made in the record of that office, yet that the requirement
of section 4894 that the application should be regarded as
abandoned if the applicant failed to prosecute the same
within two years after any action therein, of wbich notice
should have been given him, unless it were "shown to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner of Patents that such delay
was unavoidable," was applicable, and that the court could
not adjudge that the applicant was entitled, "according to
law, to receive a patent," unless he showed to the satisfaction
of the court that the delay of two years " was unavoidable,
under an allegation to that effect in the bill." It was held
that the bill in equity was sub mode a branch of the application for the patent, and was governed by the rule as to laches
and delay declared by section 489-4. But this had nothing to
do with the time within which an appeal from the Commis.

IN RE

lEN, Petitioner.

Opinion of the Court.

sioner of Patents must be taken, but merely decided that a
bill in equity under section 4915 would be defeated where the
application had been abandoned in the Patent Office under
section 4894.
The bill in equity provided for by section 4915 is wholly
different from the proceeding by appeal from the decision
of the Commissioner under consideration in this case. The
one is in the exercise of original, the other, of appellate,
jurisdiction.
The court under section 4914, on petition, is to hear and
determine the appeal and to revise the decision appealed from
in a summary way "upon the evidence produced before the
Commissioner, at such early and convenient time as the court
may appoint; and the revision shall be confined to the points
set forth in the reasons of appeal."
Section 4915 provides, as to the remedy by bill in equityr,
that "the court having cognizance thereof, on notice to
adverse parties and other due proceedings had, may adjudge
that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a
patent for his invention as specified in his claim, or for any
part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear."
In Butlerwortlh v. Roe, 112 U. S. 50, 61, this court distinguished the proceeding by bill in equity under section 4915
from an appeal under section 4911, and said: "This means a
proceeding in a court of the United States having original
equity jurisdiction under the patent laws, according to the
ordinary course of equity practice and precedure. It is not a
technical appeal from the Patent Office, like that authorized
in § 4911, confined to the case as made in the record of that
office, but is prepared and heard upon all competent evidence
adduced and upon the whole merits."
This being so, § 4894 was inapplicable, and the power of the
Court of Appeals to limit the time of appeal was not affected
thereby.
Writ denied.

