CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

557

Syllabus.

suddenly and without notice quit the service of a railway company at an intermediate station or between stations, though
cases may be easily imagined where a sudden abandonment
of a trainload of passengers in an unfrequented spot might
imperil their safety and even their lives. It is sufficient, in
the present case, to observe that the court found, upon the
testimony, that the petitioner did not quit in good faith in the
morning, but intended to continue in the company's service,
and that his conduct was a trick and device to avoid obeying
the order of the court.
The finding of the court in this particular is not open to review, and hence the question whether the court has power to
compel the performance of a personal contract for service does
not arise. It was a question for the court to determine whether
the petitioner's action in delaying the train five hours at Alexis
was taken in pursuance of a determination to abandon the
service of the company, or for the purpose of disobeying the
lawful injunction of the court. The finding of the court was
against the petitioner upon that point.
There was no error in the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
and it is, therefore,
Ajirmed.

CITY RAILWAY COMPANY v. CITIZENS' STREET
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Decided April 19, 1897.
No. 214. Argued March 16, 17, 1897.-

The Citizens' Street Railway Company of Indianapolis was organized in
1864 under an act of the legislature of Indiana of 1861, authorizing such
a company to be "a body politic and corporation in perpetuity." January 18, 1864, the common council of that city passed an ordinance authorizing the company to lay tracks upon designated streets, and providing
that "the right to operate said railway shall extend to the full time of
thirty years," during which time the city authorities were not to extend
to other companies privileges which would impair or destroy the rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
so granted. In April, 1880, the common council amended the original
grant "so as to read thirty-seven years where the same now reads thirty
years." The company, desiring to issue bonds to run for a longer
period than the thirty years, had, for that purpose, petitioned the common
council for an extension to forty-five years. The city government was
willing to extend to thirty-seven years, and this was accepted by the
company as a compromise. On the 23d of April, 1888, the road and
franchises were sold and conveyed to the Citizens' Street Railroad Cornpany, which sale and transfer were duly approved by the city government. December 18, 1889, a further ordinance authorized the use of
electric power by the company, and provided how it should be applied.
In accordance with its provisions the company, at great -expense, built
a power house, and changed its plant to an electric system. In April, 1898,
the city council, claiming that the rights of the company would expire in
thirty years from January 18, 1864, granted to another corporation called
the City Railway Company the'right to lay tracks to be operated by electricity in a large number of streets then occupied by the tracks of the
Citizens' Street Railroad Company, whereupon a bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States by theStreet Railroad Company against the
City Railway Company, to enjoin it from interrupting or disturbing the
railroad company in the maintenance and operation of its car system,
alleging that the action of the city council sought to impair, annul and
destroy the obligation of the city's contract with the plaintiff. Held,
(1) That the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, although both parties were
corporations and citizens of Indiana;
(2) That the right of repeal reserved to the legislature in the act of 1861
was not delegated to the city government;
(3) That the circumstances connected with the passage of the amended
ordinance of April 7, 1880, operated to estop the city from denying
that the charter was extended to thirty-seven years;
(4) That the continued operation of the road was a sufficient consideration for the extension of the franchise;
(5) That the*Citizens' company had a valid contract with the city which
would not expire until January 18, 1901, and that the contract of
April 24, 1893, with the City Railway Company was invalid;
(6) But no opinion was expressed whether complainant was entitled to
a perpetual franchise from the city.

THIS was a bill in equity by the Citizens' Street Railroad
Company to enjoin the appellant from interrupting or disturbing complainant in the construction, operation and maintenance of its street car system in the city of Indianapolis, and
for the establishment of complainant's rights and the quieting
of its title in that connection.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows: In 1861,

CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

559

Statement of the Case.

the general assembly of the State of Indiana passed an act
authorizing the incorporation of street railvay companies, the
second section of which act provided that the stockholders in
such companies, and their successors, should be "a body politic and corporate in perpetuity, by the name stated in the articles of association" ; and the eleventh and twelfth sections of
which were as follows:
"SEc. 11. This act may be amended or repealed
at the
discretion of the legislature.
"SEC. 12. Nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to take away from the common councils of incorporated cities the exclusive powers now exercised over the streets
highways, alleys and bridges within the corporate limits of
such cities; and all, street railroad companies which may be
organized under the provisions of this act shall first obtain
the consent of such common council to the location, survey
and construction of any street railroad through or across the
public streets of any city before the construction of the same
shall be commenced."
Pursuant to this act, the Citizens' Street Railway Company
was organized January 15, '1864, and on January 18, 1864, the
common council of Indianapolis passed an ordinance, the first,
third and fifteenth sections of which-contained the following:
"SECTION 1. Be it ordained by the common council of the

city of Indianapolis,That under and by virtue of an act of
the general assembly of the State of Indiana, entitled, ' An act
to provide for the incorporation of street railroad companies,'
approved June 4, 1861; and by -virtue of the powers and
authority of the common council otherwise by law vested,
consent, permission and authority are hereby given, granted
and duly vested unto the company organized with R. B.
Catherwood as president, a body politic and corporate by the
name of the Citizens' Street Railway Company of Indianapolis,
and their successors, to lay a single .or double track for passenger railway lines, with all the necessary and convenient
tracks for turnouts, side tracks and switches, in, upon and
along the course of the streets and alleys of the city of
Indianapolis hereinafter mentioned ; and to keep, maintain, use

-OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

and operate thereon railway cars and'carriages in the manner
and for the time and upon the conditions hereinafter prescribed."
"Spa. 3. The cars to be used on such tracks shall be operated with animal power only.

.

.

"Sxc. 15. The right to operate said railway shall extend to
the full time of thirty years from the passage hereof ; and the
said city of Indianapolis shall not, during all the time to which
the privileges hereby granted to said company shall extend,
grant to or confer upon any person or corporation .any privilege which will impair or destroy the rights and privileges
herein granted to the said company.
"
The second section of this ordinance named certain streets
upon which the company was authorized to lay its tracks, and
in the following year (1865) a supplemental ordinance was
passed giving to the company the right to lay its tracks upon
all the streets or roads within the corporate limits of the city,
and providing, in section 4, "that in laying, constructing and
operating" the same, the company should be governed by the
provisions of the ordinance of January 18, 1864.
The Citizens' Street Railway Company constructed and
operated its plant until April 23, 1888, when it was sold and
conveyed to the complainant, the Citizens' Street Railroad
Company.
On April 7, 1880, the common council passed another ordinance supplemental to that of 1864, providing that section 15
of that ordinance should be amended so as "to read thirtyseven years, where the same now reads thirty."
On April 23, 1888, an ordinance Was passed approving the
sale and transfer of the railway company to the railroad company, and on December 18, 1889, a further ordinance was
passed, supplementary to that of January 18, 1864, authorizing the use of electric power, and providing the manner in
which it should be applied. This ordinance was formally
accepted by the railroad company on January 4, 1890. The
company thereupon proceeded at very great expense to build
a power house and change its plant to 'an electric system.
In 1893 a dispute arose between the board of public works

CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

561

Statement of the Case.

of the city and the president and directors of the complainant over the question whether complainant's franchise would
expire on January 18, 1894, thirty years from its date.
On February 6, 1893, a further ordinance was passed declaring it to be unlawful for any person or corporation to cut or
dig into a paved street without first obtaining from the board
of public works a written permit so to do.
On April 24, 1893, pursuant to an act of the general assembly of the State quoted in the opinion, the city, through its
board of public works, entered into a contract with the defendant

-

the City Railway Company

-

giving it permission

to lay its tracks for street railway lines to be operated by electricity, or other improved power, through a large number of
streets, most of which were already occupied by the lines of
the complainant company. This contract was approved upon
the same day by the common council, and was accepted by the
defendant.
The bill averred that it was impossible that electric cars,
other than complainant's, could be operated on such streets
without their practical destruction as thoroughfares for public
travel. It further set forth certain acts on the part of the
city, which are alleged to be part of a plan of the city authorities, in combination with the defendant, to prevent it
from making extensions and improvements and from operating its lines of railway ; and that they, the city and the defendant, were asserting the right of the city to disregard and set
aside, by the exercise of the legislative power conferred upon
its common council by the legislature of the State in the charter of 1891, a contract duly entered into and existing between
the State and the complainant under its charter, and between
the city and the complainant, thereby seeking to impair, annul
and destroy the obligation of such contracts in violation of
the Constitution of the United States. This bill was filed on
May 11, 1893, within a month after the contract and ordinance
of April 24.
A motion was made to dismiss the bill upon the ground of
the want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, which was denied.
56 Fed. Rep. 746. The bill was subsequently amended, and
VOL. Cmxvi-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the case being put at issue upqn an answer and- replication,
came on to be heard upon the pleadings and proofs, and
resulted in a decree, in accordance with the prayer of the bill
and the opinion of the presiding judge, forever enjoining the
defendant from disturbing the complainant in the enjoyment
of its rights to the streets, occupied by it at the time of the
commencement of the suit, and declaring the contract and
ordinance of April 24, 1893, to be void, in so far as they
attempted to confer upon the defendant company any right to
the streets occupied by the complainant at the commencement
of the suit. 64 Fed. Rep. 647. From this decree an appeal
was taken to this court.
Mr. Addison C. Harrisfor appellant.
Mr. P. C. Knox and Mr. Benjamin Harrison for appellee.
Mr. W. JI. It. Miller, Mr. F Winter and Mr. John B. Elam

were on their brief.
MR.

JUSTIcE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case involves the right of-the Citizens' Street Railroad
Company of Indianapolis to operate a street railroad upon the
streets upon which it had constructed its tracks at the commencement of this suit, as well as the validity of a certain
contract, and ordinance ratifying the same, between the city
and the City Railway Company, in so far as the city attempted
to confer upon that company a right to lay its tracks upon
the streets already occupied by the complainant, or to abridge
its rights in the use of such streets.
1. There can be no doubt that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the case, notwithstanding the fact that both parties
are corporations and citizens of the State of Indiana. It
should be borne in mind in this connection that jurisdiction
depended upon the allegations of the bill, and not upon the
facts as they subsequently turned out to be. The gravamen
of. the bill is that, under the act of the general assembly of

CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

563

Opinion of the Court.

1861, and the ordinances of January 18, 1864, and April 7,
1880, .the Citizens' Railroad Company had become vested
with certain exclusive rights to operate a street railway in
the city of Indianapolis, either in perpetuity or for the term
of thirty years or thirty-seven years, which the city had
attempted to impair by entering into a contract with the
City Railway Company to lay and operate a railway upon
the same streets.
All that' is necessary to establish the jurisdiction of the court
is to show that the complainant had, or claimed in good faith
to have, a contract with the city, which the latter bad attempted to impair. Conceding that the legislature of the
State alone had the right to make such grant, "it may," as
was observed in 1Wfright v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791, 794, "exercise its authority by direct legislation, or through agencies
duly established, having power for that purpose. The grant,
when made, binds the public, and is directly or indirectly the
act of the State. The easement is a legislative grant, whether
made directly by the legislature itself or by any one of its
properly constituted instrumentalities." "The complainants
claim," as in the case under consideration, "they have such
a grant through the agency of the inferior court, acting
under the authority of the legislature." See, also, Saginaw
Gas-Light Co. v. Saginaw City, 28 Fed. Rep. 529; Weston
v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 462; New Orleans Water IVories Co. v.
Rivers, 115 U. S. 674.
That the complainant had a contract with the city is entirely
clear. It was so held by the Supreme Court of Indiana in the
Western Paving & Supply Co. v. Citizens' Street Railroad Co.,
128 Indiana, 525, in which the liability of the company for
certain street improvements was discussed and passed upon.
It is true that, by section eleven of the original act of 1861,
a right was reserved to the general assembly to amend or
repeal at their discretion the act authorizing the incorporation
of street railway companies; but that was a right reserved to
the general assembly itself and was never delegated, if in
fact it could be delegated, to the common council of the city.
That the city did attempt to impair this contract by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

agreement of April 24, 1893, with the City Railway Company, and its ordinance ratifying the same, is equally clear.
This contract was entered into in pursuance of a supposed
right given by the act of the general assembly of March 6,
1891, -known as the City Charter, the fifty-ninth section of
which enacted that "the board of public works shall have
power . . . to authorize and empower by contract telephone, telegraph, electric light, gas, water, steam, or street car
or railroad companies to use any street, alley or other public
place in such city; . . . provided, that such contracts
shall, in-all cases, be submitted by said board to the council
of such city, and approved by them by ordinance before the
This contract and ordinance of
same shall take effect."
April 24, 1893, even if otherwise valid, could not be construed to interfere with the rights of the complainant to
occupy the streets of the city under the act of 1861, and the
ordinance of January 18, 1864, without coming in conflict
with that provision of the Constitution which forbids States
from enacting laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
Whether the State had or had not impaired the obligation
of this contract was not a question which could be properly
passed upon, on a motion to dismiss, so long as the complainant claimed in its bill that it had that effect, and such claim
was apparently made in good faith, and was not a frivolous
one. New Orleans v. -New Orleans Water Co., 142 U. S.
79, 88.
Even if the charter were held to have expired on January
18, 1894, -. thirty years from its date, - it would not have necessarily affected the jurisdiction of the court to entertain this
bill, since it was filed eight months before that time, although
it might have affected the right of the complainant to a decree.
Did the act of 1891, known as the new charter, repeal the
act of 1861 authorizing the incorporation of railway companies? In other words, should it be construed as an exercise of the power, reserved to the State in the eleventh section
of the act of 1861, to amend or repeal that act at the discretion
of the legislature? As the act of 1891 practically established
a new system and vested the whole power of the legislature

CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

565

Opinion of the Court.

over street railway companies in the board of public works of
the several cities therein named, subject to the approval of
the common council of such cities, perhaps it might be construed to repeal the former, so far as there was a conflict
between the two acts; but it certainly should not be construed to act retrospectively or to affect contracts entered
into prior to its passage, unless its language be so clear as
to admit of no other construction. While it was doubtless
intended to authorize the board of public works of the cities
covered by the act to contract for the use of their streets by
railway companies, there is nothing from which can be inferred a power to disturb or interfere with contracts already
existing - indeed,'it is highly improbable that it would ever
have delegated such a power to a subordinate body. There
is always a presumption that statutes are intended to operate
prospectively only, Shtreve)ort v. Cole, 129 U. S. 39, and we
see nothing in this statute to rebut such presumption.
2. In arguing the case upon the merits, complainant insisted
with great earnestness that inasmuch as the act of 1861, providing for the incorporation of street railway companies, had
declared, in section two, that the stockholders in the companies organized under that act, and their successors, should
be "a body politic and corporate in perpetuity, by the name
stated in the articles of association," the common council of
Indianapolis, which by section twelve must have given its
consent "to the location, survey and construction" of any
street railway before the construction of the same could be
commenced, had no power in its ordinance of January 18, 1864,
to limit the right of the complainant to operate its railway to
the term of thirty years; and that such ordinance, though
valid, in so far as it gave consent to build and operate the
railway, was invalid, in so far as it attempted to abridge the'
franchise granted by the general assembly, which existed in
perpetuity. We do not, however, find it Iiecessary to express
an opinion upon this question, in view of the conclusion we have
reached upon the legality of the ordinance of April 7, 1880,
amending section fifteen of the original ordinance by extending complainant's franchise from thirty to thirty-seven years.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

No question was made respecting the validity of the original
ordinance, but the amended ordinance of April 7, 1880, was
attacked, principally upon the ground of a want of consideration for the extension of the franchise for seven years. The
facts connected with this amendment were substantially as
follows: The railway being mortgaged for $200,000, in first
mortgage bonds and $100,000 in second mortgage bonds at
seven per cent interest, at the time of the purchase by the
railroad company, the company was desirous of paying them
off, as they were at liberty to do under the mortgages, and of
renewing the loan in one mortgage at a lower rate of interest.
In negotiating with the proposed purchasers of the bonds it was
insisted that the contract with the city ought to be extended,
as the proposed new issue of bonds would run beyond the
time fixed for the termination of the contract. The manager
of the road thereupon applied to the common council for an
ordinance amending section fifteen of the original ordinance,
by making it read forty-five years instead of thirty years. The
committee declined to agree to this, but recommended as a
compromise an ordinance fixing the term of the original ordinance at thirty-seven years instead of forty-five years. To
this the company finally agreed. Thereupon the common
council adopted the ordinance in question.
While this transaction cannot properly be termed a legal
consideration for the ordinance, since the negotiation of the
new loan was neither a benefit to the city nor a detriment to
the railway company, yet we think that the subsequent
negotiation of the loan operates against the city by way of
estoppel. All that is necessary to create an estoppel in yai
is to show that, upon the faith of a certain action on the part
of the city, which it had power to take, the company incurred
a new liability; as, for example, by the negotiation of a new
loan, and the issue of a new bond and miortgage to secure the
same. Under such circumstances, justice to the bondholders,
who have in good faith invested their money in reliance upon
the validity of such action, demands that the city shall be
held to its contract, notwithstanding there may have been
originally no consideration to support it. The consequences

CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

567

Opinion of the Court.

of a different ruling would not only destroy the credit of
the company, but might be disastrous to the bondholders,
the value of whose investment would depend very largely
upon the length of time the bonds were to run. Experience
shows that the value of bonds or debentures depends not only
upon the sufficiency of the security and the rate of interest,
but upon the length of time they have to run and the certainty
that they will not, before the expiration of such time, be called
in for redemption.
But however this may be, it seems to us that the continued
operation of the road may itself be regarded a sufficient consideration for the extension of the franchise. This extension
was not a mere gratuity or bounty within the case of Grand
Lodge v. City of New Orleans, 166 U. S. 143, recently decided,
but was an agreement to prolong the privilege of occupying the
streets of the city, in consideration that the company should
continue the facilities already afforded to its citizens. The
original ordinance of January 18, 1864, was plainly a proposition on the part of the city to grant to the company the use of
its streets for thirty years, in consideration that the company
lay its tracks and operate a railway thereon upon certain conditions prescribed by the ordinance. This proposition, when
accepted by the company and the road built and operated as
specified, became a contract which the State was not at liberty
to impair during its continuance; but if, at the expiration of
the thirty years, the road had been sold to another company,
and that company had applied for and obtained from the common council a franchise to occupy its streets for another period,
it seems to be clear that such a contract would need no other
consideration to support it than the continued operation of the
road under such conditions as the 6ity chose to impose. But
this is practically such a case, since it makes no difference in
principle whether the road passes into the hands of a new company or is retained by the old one, or whether the extension is
granted at the time of or before the original franchise expired.
In either case the consideration, viz., the continued operation
of the road, is the same. If, instead of extending the original
ordinance this ordinance had been surrendered by the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, and a new one had been enacted by which the franchise
was extended, it would hardly be contended that the continued operation of the road would not be a sufficient consideration for the new ordinance. This was, in reality, part of the
consideration upon which the original franchise was granted,
and is, we think, a valuable consideration within the meaning
of the law, and sufficient to support the extension.
This ordinance is also attacked upon the ground that it was
There is really
never formally accepted by the company.
nothing in this contention. No formal resolution of acceptance
is necessary in any case, if the facts show an actual, practical
acceptance by the company, or action which would be only
explicable in case the amendment were accepted. There are
two circumstances in this case, either of which is sufficient to
constitute an acceptance.
Mr. Johnson, the manager of the road, who desired the extension of the charter, applied for an amendment making the
original section fifteen read forty-five years instead of thirty
years, and in that connection says: "After a good deal of
argument I was finally forced to concede to the wishes of the
committee, and they recommended to the council an ordinance
making it read ' thirty-seven years,' instead of the ' forty-five'
we applied for. This ordinance we consented to in committee,
and afterwards agreed to with the council, as the best we could
do under the circumstances." This was sufficient, as it is universally held that a previous request for an ordinance obviates
Atlanta v. Gate
the necessity of a subsequent acceptance.
on Corpora1
Morawetz
106;
City Gas-Light Co., 71 Georgia,
tions, ยง 23; Illinois River Railroad Co. v. Zimmer, 20 Illinois,
654; Lincoln & Kennebeo Bank v. Richardson,1 Maidie, 79;
State v. Dawson, 22 Indiana, 272; Newton v. Carbery, 5
Cranch C. C. 632; Perkins v. Sanders, 56 Mississippi, 733, 739.
We are also of opinion that an acceptance may be presumed
from the fact that the amendment was beneficial to the corporation, United States v. Dandridge,12 Wheat. 64, 70 ; Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 7 Pick. 344; Commonwealth
v. Cullen, 13 Penn. St. 133, 140; Bangor, Old Town & Milford Railroad v. Sqnith, 47 Maine, 34, and from the further

CITY RAILWAY CO. v. CITIZENS' RAILROAD CO.

569

Opinion of the Court.

fact that it issued its bonds, as was contemplated when the
ordinance was applied for, and made them fall due at the
,expiration of the enlarged franchise.
There is nothing in the so-called electrical ordinance which
affects this question. It seems that in December, 1889, the
common council adopted an ordinance amendatory of the
original ordinance of January 18, 1864, to the effect that
"time cars to be used on such tracks shall be operated with
animal or electrical power only." The ordinance further provided that "nothing herein contained shall be construed so as
to lengthen the term of'the franchise, enlarge or in any other
way change or affect the rights of the Citizens' Street Railroad Company of the city of Indianapolis, under said ordinance of January 18, 1864, except to authorize the use of
electrical as well as animal power."
It was also provided that the appellee should signify its
acceptance by writing, within sixty days, filed with the city
clerk, which was done.
At this time there was no law of the State permitting
electricity to be used, and it is now claimed that the common council exceeded its powers in authorizing this change
to be made.
But it seems that on March 3, 1891, a law was enacted by
the general assembly, declaring "that any street or horse
railroad heretofore or hereafter organized
consent of the common council of the city

.

.
.

.
.

.

may, with
use elec-

tricity for motive power." Conceding, although not deciding,
that the city might have exceeded its lawful power in authorizing the change from animal power to electricity, in the
absence of legislative authority so to do, we think the act
of 1891 should be construed, not only as conferring a new
authority upon the city, but as a ratification of what the city
hhd already done in that direction. In view of the large expenditures incurred by the company upon the faith of this
ordinance, it is ill becoming the city to set up its own want
of power to make it, when such power was directly and
explicitly given a few months thereafter.
The fact that the ordinance declared that it should not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

so construed as to lengthen the term of the franchise under
the ordinance of January 18, 1864, is wholly immaterial, since
the ordinance had been amended, changing the original limitation of time from thirty to thirty-seven years. In fact, the
ordinance had but a single object, which was to permit the
substitution of electric for animal power, and it is scarcely
possible that, if either party had understood that the franchise was to expire in January, 1894, four years from the time
the electric ordinance was adopted, the complainant company
would have entered upon the work of changing its entire
system of street railway into an electrical system, and incurred the very large expense necessary for that purpose,
knowing that before it could reap any substantial return
from such an investment its rights in the streets of the city
would expire by limitation. The improbability becomes the
more apparent when it is considered that it was under no
compulsion to make the change, and might, at its option,
have continued the use of horse power until the original
franchise had expired.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the complainant company had a valid contract with the city, under the original
ordinance of January 18, 1864, as amended by the ordinance
of April 7, 1880, which will not expire until January 18, 1901,
and that the contract and ordinance of April 24, 1893, with
the defendant company is invalid, in so far as it may be construed to interfere with the complainant in the construction,
operation and maintenance of its street car system in the city
of Indianapolis. But as we are not called upon to express an
opinion whether complainant is entitled to a perpetual franchise from the city,
The decree of the court below must be modified by striking
out from the second paragraph th6 words "without regard to any limitation of time mentioned in any ordinance of the city," and, also, the word "forever," and as
so modified it is affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY and MR. JUsTIo

the result.

WHITE concurred in

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
MR. JUSTICE SHIAs was of opinion that the decree should
be affirmed without modification.
Mit. JUSTICE HARLAN did not hear the argument or participate in the decision of this case.

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Xo. 185.

Argued March 24, 25, 1897. -Decided

April 19, 1897.

A bond to the United States, conditioned that a property and disbursing
officer of the War Department shall faithfully discharge his duties, and
faithfully account for public money and property committed to his charge,
takes effect on the day when it is accepted by the Government, and is to
be regarded as of that date.
When it appears that such a bond, duly signed by sureties, had been offered
to the government official, and rejected by him as-not bearing seals, and
that it was taken away by the property and disbursing officer, the principal, and returned with proper seals, it will be presumed, in the absence
of proof to the 'contrary, that the seals were attached with the consent
of the sureties.
The order of the Secretary of War directing the execution of such a bond
was one which he had power to make, and, being made, the disbursing
officer was bound to have it executed and filed.
The Chief Signal Officer had the right to designate one of the officers under
him as a property and disbursing officer to whom should belong the custody
of all government property and funds pertaining to the office of the Chief
Signal Officer, and he further had the power, under the general direction
of the Secretary of War, to provide that such officer should be responsible
for the due execution of his official duties ; and, a bond having been given
for such faithful performance, and such officer having been guilty of the
forgery of vouchers and tie embezzling of public moneys officially re.
ceived by him, such conduct was a plain violation of his duty as such
officer, and the condition of the bond, as it lPlainly covered such conduct,
was violated thereby.
A certificate given to such disbursing officer before the discovery of his
fraud that his accounts had been examined, found correct and were cl6sed,
did not operate to release him or his sureties from liability on the bond.
There was no delay in the commencement of the proceedings against the
disbursing officer, which injured the sureties, or operated to release the
latter from their liability under the bond.
The transcripts from the books and proceedipg$ of the Treasury Department

