SPRINGVILLE v. THOMAS.

707

Opinion of the Court.

SPRINGVILLE v. THOMAS.
ERROR

TO

THE

No. 108.

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY

OF

UTAH.

Argued and submitted October 29, 1896.-Decided April 26, 1897.

SALT LAKE CITY BREWING COMPANY v. FRED.
W. WOLF COMPANY.
ERROR

TO

THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

TERRITORY

OF

UTAH.

OF

UTAH.

No. 153.Submitted January 14, 1897. - Decided April 26, 1897.

SALT LAKE CITY v. TUCKER.
-ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

No. 199. Submitted January 29, 1897. -Decided

TERRITORY
April 26, 1897..

The judgments in these cases are reversed on the authority of American
Publishing Go. v. Fisher, ante, 464.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
HP,. J. L. Rawlins for plaintiff in error in No. 103.
M,.Parley L. Williams for defendants in error in No. 103.
,Mr.
William C. Hall for plaintiff in error in No. 153.
Mr. Parley L. Williams, Mr. Frank Pierce and Mr. Frank
I-. Scott for defendant in error in No. 153.
Mr.William McKay and Mr. D. B. Hempstead for plaintiff in error in No. 199.
Mr. William T.S. Curtis for defendants in error in No. 199.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In these three cases judgments were entered on verdicts returned by less than the whole number of jurors, by which they

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

were tried. It has been decided by this court that the territorial act of March 10, 1892, permitting this to be done, Laws
Utah, 1892, p. 46, was invalid, because in contravention of the
Seventh Amendment to the Constitution and the act of Congress of April 7, 1874, 18 Stat. 27, c. 80. American Publishing Co. v. Fisher, ante, 464.
Exceptions to the course pursued were sufficiently preserved
and the judgments must be reversed if this court has jurisdiction.
The amounts in controversy in each instance were not sufficient to give jurisdiction, and the inquiry is whether the
validity of any statute of, or authority exercised under, the
United States was drawn in question before the courts below.
Act March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, ยง 2.
The Supreme Court of the Territory held in Hess v. White,
9 Utah, 61 (and the decision was followed in these cases),
that the act of Congress of September 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 453,
c. 51, ยง 6, the organic act of the Territory, vested in the territorial legislature such unlimited legislative power as enabled it
to provide that unanimity of action on the part of jurors in
civil cases was not necessary to a valid verdict. But defendants contended that the act of Congress as thus interpreted was in violation of the Seventh Amendment and the
validity of the act was in that way drawn in question. In the
view which the Supreme Court took of the act it was obliged
to subject it to the test of the Constitution, and accordingly
in deciding that the Seventh Amendment did not require
unanimity of action, the court held in effect that the act of
Congress was constitutional although it empowered the territorial legislature to provide for verdicts by less than the
whole number of jufors. The question involved was not
matter of construction of the territorial act, but the court
discussed its validity, and this depended on the validity of
the act of Congress giving it the scope which the court
attributed to it.
In this there was error. In our opinion the Seventh Amendment secured unanimity in finding a verdict as an essential
feature of trial by jury in common law cases, and the act of

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. LOUISVILLE.

709

Statement of the Case.

Congress could not impart the power to change the constitutional rule, and could not be treated as attempting to do so.
These cases are exceptional, and, under the peculiar circumstances, we think jurisdiction may be maintained.
Judgments reversed, and cases remanded to the Supreme Court
of the Stateforfurtherproceedings.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD
PANY v. LOUISVILLE.

COM-

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 261.

Argued April 1, 189'. -Decided

April 26, 1897.

After the trial court and the Superior Court had disposed of this cage
without any Federal question having been raised, the railroad company
moved to set the judgment aside and transfer the case to the Court of
Appeals on the ground that the statutes, as construed by the state court
in its opinion, were Invalid and in violation of the Constitution. This
motion being denied an appeal was granted to the Court of Appeals
where it was claimed in argument that the state statute as construed'
impaired the obligation created by the charter of the company, and
denied the equal protection of the laws, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. Held, that the record did not show that a Federal
question had been raised below in time and in a way to give this court
jurisdiction.

Tnis was a case instituted in the Louisville. Chancery Court
by the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company against
the city of Louisville by the filing of an agreed case under
the following provisions of the Civil Code of Practice of the
State of Kentucky:
"SEC. 637. Parties to a question which might be the subject
of a civil action may, without action, state the question and
the facts upon which it depends, and present a submission
thereof to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an
action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit
that 'the controversy is real, and. the proceedings in good

