LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. LOUISVILLE.

709

Statement of the Case.

Congress could not impart the power to change the constitutional rule, and could not be treated as attempting to do so.
These cases are exceptional, and, under the peculiar circumstances, we think jurisdiction may be maintained.
Judgments reversed, and cases remanded to the Supreme Court
of the Stateforfurtherproceedings.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD
PANY v. LOUISVILLE.

COM-

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 261.

Argued April 1, 189'. -Decided

April 26, 1897.

After the trial court and the Superior Court had disposed of this cage
without any Federal question having been raised, the railroad company
moved to set the judgment aside and transfer the case to the Court of
Appeals on the ground that the statutes, as construed by the state court
in its opinion, were Invalid and in violation of the Constitution. This
motion being denied an appeal was granted to the Court of Appeals
where it was claimed in argument that the state statute as construed'
impaired the obligation created by the charter of the company, and
denied the equal protection of the laws, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. Held, that the record did not show that a Federal
question had been raised below in time and in a way to give this court
jurisdiction.

Tnis was a case instituted in the Louisville. Chancery Court
by the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company against
the city of Louisville by the filing of an agreed case under
the following provisions of the Civil Code of Practice of the
State of Kentucky:
"SEC. 637. Parties to a question which might be the subject
of a civil action may, without action, state the question and
the facts upon which it depends, and present a submission
thereof to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an
action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit
that 'the controversy is real, and. the proceedings in good

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court
shall, thereupon, bear and determine the case, and render
judgment as if an action were pending.
"Sxc. 638. The case, the submission and the judgment shall
constitute the record.
"Snc. 639. The judgment shall be with costs, and may
be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission."
The agreed case commenced as follows: "The Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company and the city of Louisville
hereby state to the court the facts hereinafter presented and
submit to the court for decision the question hereinafter
stated." Then followed a statement of facts, and- the stipulation thus proceeded:
"Upon the foregoing facts, was the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company entitled to a discount-and, if so,
then to what discount -upon the tax bills mentioned herein
on February 4, 1892, when it offered to pay said bills less a
discount, or on February 6, 1892, when it paid the amount
of said bills under protest?
"1If the court shall be of the opinion that the railroad
company at tei time of the said tender or payment was
entitled to a discount upon the amount of said tax bills,
then judgment may be efitered for the amount of such discount, with interest from February 6, 1892, until paid, in
favor of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
against the city of Louisville for the amount of such discount and the costs of this proceeding; but if the court
shall be of the Opinion that said railroad company was not
entitled to any discount on said bills on said day of tender
or payment, then judgment may be entered dismissing the
case and giving judgment for costs of this proceeding in favor
of the city of Louisville against the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad Company. The right of appeal from the judgment
of the Louisville Chancery Court is not waived."
The case was heard, and the chancellor entered the following judgment:

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RID v. LOUISVILLE.

711

Statement of the Case,

"This agreed case having been submitted in chief, and the
court being sufficiently advised, delivered a written opinion,
which is now filed, and in accordance therewith it is considered by the court that plaintiff, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, had no right to any discount on its
tax bill when it paid or tendered payment of same, as shown
in said agreed case, and that this said action be, and it is therefore, dismissed, and that defendant recover of plaintiff its costs
herein expended."
The plaintiff excepted and carried the case by appeal to the
Superior* Court of Kentucky and the judgment of the chancellor was affirmed.
Opinions were delivered by the chancellor and by the Su.
perior Court.
After the judgment of affirmance the railroad company
"moved the court to set agide the submission and judgment
and transfer this case to the Court of Appeals or to grant an
appeal to the Court of Appeals" ; on these grounds:
" This day came appellant, by counsel, and stated to the
court that it believes the statutes involved in this action, as to
the taxation of railroad property in the city of Louisville, as
construed by the court in its opinion lately delivered herein,
to be invalid and to be 'inviolation of the constitutions of the
State of Kentucky and of the, United States, and that it desired to be heard on the question of the validity of said statutes, and thereupon moved the court to set aside its judgment
and the order of submission herein and to transfer this action
to the Court of Appeals; and came appellant further, by counsel, and moved the court to grant it an appeal from its judgment herein to the Court of Appeals in the event the court
should overrule the preceding motions above set forth."
The Superior Court overruled the motion to set aside the
judgment and submission, and trnsfer the cause, but granted
the appeal to the Court of Appeals, which, being duly
prosecuted, the judgment was again affirmed. 29 S. W.
Rep. 865.
A writ of error was allowed from this court by the Chief
Justice of the Court of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The assignment of errors in the brief of counsel is as
follows:
"1st. ,That the statutes involved, according to the construction put upon them by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, do,
in substance and effect, impose a different rate of taxation upon
the property of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
from that which is. imposed upon other property, either real
or personal, in the city of Louisville ; and,
"2d. That this violates the obligation of the contract contained in the charter of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, whereby it was agreed that its property should not
be assessed, higher than other real property; thus conflicting
with the provision of the Constitution of the United States
which forbids any State to pass a law impairing the obligation
of a contract; and,
"3d. That, independently of the question of contract, these
statutes, as construed by the Court of Appeals, impose a different rate of taxation upon the property of railroad companies
from that which is imposed upon property of the same kind,
in the same place and under the same circumstances, when
owned by any other class of persons than railroad companies;
and that, therefore, it comes within the inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
which provides that no State shall deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
M.r. 1elm Bruce for plaintiff in error. Mr. James P. 11el.
and Mr.If. W. Bruce were on his brief.
Mr. Henry L. Stone for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTiE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
By the terms of the agreed case the only questiong submitted
to the Chancery Court of Louisville were whether the railroad
company was entitled to a discount on certain tax bills, and if
so, what discount; and it was stipulated that if the court
should be of opinion that the company was not entitled to any

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. LOUISVILLE.

713

Opinion of the Court.

discount, then judgment should be entered dismissing the case
with costs. The chancellor in his opinion pointed out that
the act of the general assembly of Kentucky, entitled "An
act to revise and amend the tax laws of the city of Louisville,"
approved May 12, 1884, provided for a discount of three per
cent on taxes paid in January; of two per cent on those paid
in February; and of one per cent on those paid in March, but
that the assessments for taxation, to which the act related, did
not in terms include railroad property, the assessment of which
was provided for by chapter 92 of the General Statutes of
Kentucky. This chapter provided for the assessment of i;ailroad property by state authority for state, county, city and
town purposes; for enforcement of payment by penalties on
its chief officer; and required payment by a named day, but
it nowhere in terms or by implication allowed any deduction
for prompt payment of state, county, city or town taxes; and
it forbade assessments or collections of such taxes in any mode
other than that therein designated.
The chancellor held that such a deduction was pro tanto in
the nature of an exemption, and that exemptions were not
allowable except where express authority affirmatively appeared therefor, and that no such authority appeared here;
and he then said: "The ground of inequality in taxation,
so much relied on by plaintiff's counsel, is not entitled to much
weight, for the principle, if such there be, is misapplied.
Taxes are imposed in this State on corporations by classes.
No member of a class can complain if he is treated like all in
the same class. If it be wrong not to allow deductions to
banks, railroads, gas companies, etc., for prompt payment of
taxes, then the legislature can remedy the wrong. In the
present condition of the statute the courts cannot."
And the court being of opinion that the company was not
entitled to any discount, entered judgment strictly in accordance with the stipulation of the parties. There was no intimation in the agreed case that any constitutional question was
submitted for determination, and no such question. was propounded. The matter was one of construction merely.
The Superior Court had no appellate jurisdiction of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal involving the validity of a statute (Kentucky Codes,
1895, p. 472), as was conceded at the bar, and yet plaintiff
in error prosecuted its appeal to that court. After the
Superior Court had gone to judgment, the railroad company
made its motion to set the judgment aside and transfer the
case to the Court of Appeals on the ground that it believed
the statutes, "as construed by the court in its opinion lately
delivered herein, to be invalid and to be in violation of the
constitutions of the State of Kentucky and of the United
States." Even then, the company did not indicate in any
way in what particulars the statutes were in contravention of
either of those instruments. This motion was overruled, and
an appeal allowed to the Court of Appeals. The Court of
Appeals arrived at the same conclusion as the other courts,
and rejected the claim for a discount as not permitted by the
statute. The court closed its opinion thus :
"The city is not allowed to fix any value on appellant's
The penalty on its failing to pay taxes to the
property.
city is not made to apply to the appellant, and it is plain, we
think, that the charter provision or the law in regard to the
assessment, collection and payment of the taxes of the citizens
within' the municipality does not include railroads or such
corporate property, and equally apparent that the legislature,
in regard to these corporations, can enact a different system
or mode of assessment and collection from that under which
taxes are ordinarily collected; and the discount allowed the
citizen to encourage the prompt payment of taxes is not a
discrimination in his favor as against appellant, nor is it open
to constitutional objection. Kentucky Railroad Tax cases,
115 U. S. 321."
The record does not disclose that any Federal question was
specifically raised in the Court of Appeals, and the sole
reference in the opinion to constitutional objection is in the
language above quoted. Doubtless that reference was by way
of answer to the contention that the statute might fail alto,gether unless construed to include railroad companies.
In Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433, 439, we said:
"As many times reiterated, it is essential to the maintenance

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. LOUISVILLE.

715

Opinion of the Court.

of jurisdiction upon the ground of erroneous decision as to the
validity of a state statute or a right under the Constitution of
the United States, that it should appear from the record that
the validity of such statute was drawn in question as repugnant to the Constitution and that the decision sustained its
validity, or that the right was specially set up or claimed and
denied. If it appear from the record by clear and necessary

intendment that the Federal question must have been directly
involved so that the state court Could not have given judgment
without deciding it, that will be sufficient; but resort cannot
be had to the expedient of importing into the record the legislation of the State as judicially known to its courts, and holding
the validity of such legislation to have been drawn in question,
and a decision necessarily rendered thereon, in arriving at conclusions upon the matters actually presented and considered.
A definite issue as to the validity of the statute or the possession of the right must be distinctly deducible from the
record before the state court can be held to have disposed of
such a Federal question by its decision."
And see Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, ante, 648, in
which this subject is largely considered and the authorities

cited.
The agreed case presented no issue as to the validity of the
statute, but simply the question of its construction. The company did not sue to recover back the taxes it had paid on the

ground of the invalidity of the laws under which they were
levied, but to recover the discount allowed to taxpayers by a
particular statute. The Chancery Court was shut up by the
agreement to determine whether the company was or was not
entitled to that discount. The construction by the Chancery

Court was concurred in by the Superior Court and by the
Court of Appeals, and the judgment of the Chancery Court,
rendered as stipulated, was affirmed. It is now said that as
the proper construction of the statute was definitively settled
by the Court of Appeals, this court can take jurisdiction at
that stage of the case, because as thus construed the statute
impaired the obligation of a contract created by the charter
of the company (which Was not mentioned in the agreed

716

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

case), and because it denied the equal protection of the laws
in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment, although no
definite issue in either respect was tendered throughout the
proceedings unless the mention of the Constitution of the
United States on the motion to set aside may be so regarded.
We do not think that was sufficient.
Writ of error dism issed.

