OCTOBER TERM,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

SENTELL v. NEW ORLEANS AND CARROLLTON
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE OOURT OF APPEALS FOR THE PARISH OF ORLEANS,
IN THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 282. Submitted March 25, 1897. - Decided April 26, 1897.

A state statute providing that no dog shall be entitled to the protection of
the law unless placed upon the assessment rolls, and that in a civil action
for killing a dog the owner cannot recover beyond the value fixed by
himself in the last assessment preceding the killing, is within the police
power of the State.

THIS was an action originally instituted by Sentell in the
civil district court for the Parish of Orleans, to recover the
value of a Newfoundland bitch, known as "Countess Lona,"

alleged to have been negligently killed by the railroad
company.
The company answered, denying the allegation of negligence, and set up as a separate defence that plaintiff had not

complied either with the requirements of the state law, or of
tile city ordinances, with respect to the keeping of dogs, and
was, therefore, not entitled to recover. The law of the State
was as follows:
" SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the Geieral Assembly of thle
State of Lowisiana, That sec. (1201) twelve hundred and one
of the Revised Statutes of Louisiana be amended and reenacted so as to read as follows: From and after the passage
of this act dogs owned by citizens of this State are hereby de-

clared to be personal property of such citizens, and shall be
placed on the same guarantees of law as other personal property; provided, such dogs are given in by the owner thereof to
the assessor.
"SEc. 2. Be it furt/her enacted, etc., That no dog shall be
entitled to the protection of the law unless the same shall

have been placed upon the assessment rolls.

SENTELL v. NEW ORLEANS &c. RAILROAD CO. 699
Counsel for Plaintiff In Error.

"SEC. 3. Be it further enacted, etc., That in civil actions for
the killing of or for injuries done to dogs, the owner cannot
recover beyond the amount of the value of such dog or dogs,
as fixed by himself in the last assessment preceding the killing
or injuries complained of.
"SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, etc., That all laws in conflict
with this act be repealed.
"Approved July 5, 1882." Laws of 1882, p. 160.
By the city ordinance, adopted July 1, 1890, No. 4613, "no
dog shall be permitted to run or be at large upon any street,
alley, highway, common or public square within the limits of
the city of New Orleans; provided, that this section shall not
apply to any dog to which a tag, obtained from the treasurer,
is attached." By section 8 the treasurer was directed to
furnish metal dog tags to all persons applying for the same
at the rate of two dollars each, available only for the year in
which they were issued.
Plaintiff denied the constitutionality of the state act; and
the court charged the jury that the fact that the dog was not
tagged, as required by the city ordinances, could not affect the
right of the plaintiff to recover; that the above act of the
legislature was unconstitutional as destructive of the right of
property; and that a dog, being property, a law which requires that property should not be protected unless listed for
taxation, was in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, providing that no person shall be deprived of his life,
liberty or property without due process of law. The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $250, upon which
judgment was entered.
The case was carried to the Court of Appeals, which reversed the judgment of the trial court, and entered judgment
in favor of the defendant, holding that plaintiff should have
shown a compliance with t he law of the State and the ordinances of the city as a condition precedent to recover. Whereupon plaintiff sued out a writ of error from this court.

Mr. George Den gre and Mr. Omner Villerg for plaintiff ii
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Henry P. Dart for defendant in error.
IMR.

JusTIcE

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the constitutionality of a law of the
State of Louisiana requiring dogs to be placed upon the assessment rolls, and limiting any recovery by the owner to the
value fixed by himself for the purpose of taxation.
The dog in question was a valuable Newfoundland bitch,
registered in the American Kennel's stud-book, and was kept
by her owner for breeding purposes. It seems that while following him in a walk upon the streets, she stopped on the
track of the railroad company, and, being otherwise engaged
for the moment, failed to notice the approach of an electric
car which was coming toward her at great speed ; and, being
moreover heavy with young, and not possessed of her usual
agility, she 'Was caught by the car and instantly killed. The
Court of Appeals was evidently of opinion that her owner,
knowing of her condition, should not have taken her upon a
public thoroughfare without exercising the greatest care and
vigilance, and that the accident was largely due to a want of
prudence upon his part. The facts, however, were not properly
before the court, and the opinion was put upon the ground
that the state law was constitutional and valid as a police
regulation to prevent the indiscriminate owning and breeding
of worthless dogs. The judges also annexed a certificate that
the decision was reversed upon the ground that the law was
constitutional, and that no other point was passed upon.
By the common law, as well as by the law of most, if not
all, the States, dogs are so far recognized as property that an
action will lie for their conversion or injury, 2 B1. Com. 393;
Cummings v. Perham, 1 Met. 555; finsman v. State, 77
Indiana, 132; State v. 3fcDatfie, 34 N. H. 523; Parker v.
Mise, 27 Alabama, 480; Wfeatley v. larris,4 Sneed, 468;
Dodson v. Moek, 4 Dev. & Bat. 146; Perry v. Pldpps, 10
Ired. Law, 259; Lentz v. Stroh4, 6 S. & R. 33; although, in the
absence of a statute, they are not regarded as the subjects of

SENTELL v. NEW ORLEANS &c. RAILROAD CO.

701

Opinion of the Court.

larceny. 2 Bish. New Crim. Law, ยง 773; Case of Swans, 7
Coke, 86, 91; Norton v. Ladd, 5 N. H. 204;, Findlay v. Bear,
8 S. & R. 571; People v. Campbell, 4 Parker C. C. 386; State

v. Doe, 79 Indiana, 9; Ward v. State, 48 Alabama, 161 ; State
v. Lymus, 26 Ohio St. 400; State v. iolder, 81 N. C. 527.
The very fact that they are without the protection of the
criminal laws shows that property in dogs is of an imperfect
or qualified nature, and that they stand, as it were, between
animals ferce naturw in which, until killed or subdued, there
is no property, and domestic animals, in which the right of
property is perfect and complete. They are not considered
as being upon the same plane with horses, cattle, sheep and
other domesticated animals, but rather in the category of cats,
monkeys, parrots, singing birds and similar animals kept for
pleasure, curiosity or caprice. They have no intrinsic value,
by which we understand a value common to all dogs as such,
and independent of the particular breed or individual. Unlike
other domestic animals, they are useful neither as beasts of
burden, for draught (except to a limited extent), nor for food.
They are peculiar in the fact that they differ among themselves
more widely than any other class of animals, and can hardly
be said to have a characteristic common to the entire race.
While the higher breeds rank among the noblest representatives of the animal kingdom, and are justly esteemed for
their intelligence, sagacity, fidelity, watchfulness, affection,
and, above all, for their natural companionship with man,
others are afflicted with such serious infirmities of temper as
to be little better than a public nuisance. All are more or less
subject to attacks of hydrophobic madness.
As it is practically impossible by statute to distinguish
between the different breeds, or between the valuable and
the worthless, such legislation as has been enacted upon the
subject, though nominally including the whole canine race,
is really directed against the latter class, and is based upon
the theory that the -owner of a really valuable dog will feel
sufficient interest in him to comply with any reasonable regulation designed to distinguish him from the common herd.
Acting upon the principle that there is but a qualified prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

erty in them, and that, while private interests require that the
valuable ones shall be protected, public interests demand that
the worthless shall be exterminated, they have, from time
immemorial, been considered as holding their lives at the will
of the legislature, and properly falling within the police powers of the several States. Laws for the protection of domestic
animals are regarded as having but a limited application to
dogs and cats; and, regardless of statute, a ferocious dog is
looked upon as hostis hurnani gefleris, and as having no right
to his life which man is bound to respect. Putnam v. IPayne,
13 Johns. 312; ttinkley v. Emerson, 4 Cow. 351; Brown v.
Carpenter,26 Vermont, 638; Woo/f v. Chialker, 31 Connecticut, 121; Brent v. -im ball, 60 Illinois, 211; Maxwell v.
1almerton, 21 Wend. 407.
Statutes of the general character of the one in question
have been enacted in many of the States, and their constitutionality, though often attacked, has been generally, if not
universally, upheld. Thus in Tower v. Tower, 18 Pick. 262,
an act which authorized "any person to kill any dog or dogs
found, and being without a collar," was construed to authorize the killing of a dog out of the enclosure of his owner,
although he was under his immediate care, and this was
known to the person killing the dog.
In Morey v. Brown, 42 N. H. 373, a statute providing that
no person should be liable for killing a dog found without a
collar with the name of the owner engraved thereon, was held
to justify the killing, although the defendant had actual notice
of the ownership of the dog found without such collar. Plaintiff claimed that the act was unconstitutional, but the court
held that it was not an act to take private property for public
use, or to deprive parties of their property in dogs; but merely
to regulate the use and keeping of such property in a manner
which seemed to the legislature reasonable and expedient.
"It is a mere police regulation, such as we think the legislature might constitutionally establish." To the same effect
are Carter v. Dow, 16 Wisconsin, 317; Mitchell v. Williams, 27
Indiana, 62; Ilaller v. Sh'eridan, 27 Indiana, 494.
The statutes of Massachusetts, from the earliest colonial

SENTELL v. NEW ORLEANS &c. RAILROAD CO.

703

Opinion of the Court.

period to the present day, are reviewed in an elaborate opinion in Blair v. Forehand,100 Mass. 136, and laws are shown
to have existed, sometimes for the killing of "unruly and
ravenous dogs"; sometimes, as in Nantucket in 1743, for
the killing of "any dog or bitch whatsoever that shall at
any time be found there"; and sometimes for the killing of
dogs "strolling out of the enclosure or immediate care of the
owner," or going at large without a collar. In the particular
case it was held that a statute declaring that any person
might, and every police officer and constable should, kill or
cause to be killed, all dogs, whenever or wherever found,
hot licensed and collared according to other provisions of
the statute, was within the constitutional limits of the authority of the legislature.
Such acts appear to have been very
frequent in that State, and their constitutionality generally
acquiesced in.
In the more recent case of Mlorewood v. Wakefteld, 133
Mass. 240, the same statute was construed as authorizing any
person to kill a dog which was licensed, but had no collar on,
provided that he could do so without committing a trespass,
although no warrant for the killing of. dogs had been issued.
The constitutional objection against general warrants, which
was the occasion of so much controversy in that State in its
colonial days, was held not to apply to dogs, and a warrant
was sufficient which ordered the killing of all dogs, living in a
town, not duly licensed and collared.
In Ex parte Cooper, 3 Tex. App. 489, it was held that
dogs were not property within the tax clause of the constitution, and that a tax upon dogs was a police regulation and a
legitimate exercise of the police power. The point was made
that dogs, being property, should, under the constitution, be
taxed ad valorem as other property was. But it was held that
the law was not a .tax law in its ordinary sense, but a police
regulation.
So in Tenney v. Lenz, 16 Wisconsin, 566, it was held that it
was a legitimate exercise of the police power " to regulate and
license the keeping of dogs," and that the exercise of that
power was based upon the idea that the business licensed, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

kind of property regulated, is liable to work mischief, and
therefore needs restraints which shall operate as a protection
to the public.
In Jenkins v. Ballantyne, 8 Utah, 245, the constitutional
question is considered. at great length, and the provisions of a
city charter authorizing the city to tax, regulate or prohibit the
keeping of dogs, and to .authorize the destruction of the same,
when at large, contrary to the ordinance, and the issuance of
a certificate of registration, requiring the wearing of a collar
by the dog with his registered number thereon, and providing
that all dogs not so registered and collared should be liable to
be killed by any person, were valid and were not in violation
of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.
Tie only case to the contrary, to which our attention has
been called, is that of Mayor &o. v. )leigs, 1 MacArth. 53, in
which a city ordinance of Washington, requiring the owner of
dogs to obtain a license for the keeping of the same, was held
to be illegal. The substance of the opinion seems to be that
if the dog be a species of property, which was conceded, it was
entitled to the protection of other property, and the owner
should not b required to obtain a license for keeping the
same.
Even if it were assumed that dogs are property in the fullest
sense of the word, they would still be subject to the police
power of the State, and might be destroyed or otherwise dealt
with, as in the judgment of the legislature is necessary for the
protection of its citizens. That a State, in a bonafide exercise
of its police power, may interfere with private propefty, and
even order its destruction, is as well settled as any legislative
power can be, which has for its objects the welfare and comfort of the citizen. For instance, meats, fruits and vegetables
do not cease to become private property by their decay ; but
it is clearly within the power of the State to order their destruction in times of epidemic, or whenever they are so exposed
as to be deleterious to the public health. There is also property in rags and clothing; but that does not stand in the way
of their destruction in case they become infected and dangerous to the public health. No property is more sacred than

SENTELL v. NEW ORLEANS &c. RAILROAD CO.

705

Opinion of the Court.

one's home, and yet a house may be pulled down or blown up
by the public authorities, if necessary to avert or stay a general conflagration, and that, too, without recourse against such
authorities for the trespass. Bowditch v. Boston, 101 U. S.
16; Mouse's case, 12 Coke, 63 ; Governor &c. v. Aleredith, 4
T. R. 794, 797; Stone v. The Mayor &c., 25 Wend. 157;
Russell v. The Mayor &c., 2 Denio, 461.
Other instances of this are found in the power to kill
diseased cattle, to destroy obscene books or pictures, or
gambling instruments; and, in Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.
133, it was held to be within the power of a State to order the
summary estruction of fishing nets, the use of which was
likely to result in the extinction of valuable fisheries within
the waters of the State.
It is true that under the Fourteenth Amendment no State
can deprive a person of his life, liberty or property without
due process of law; but in determining what is due process of
law we are bound to consider the nature of the property, the
necessity for its sacrifice, and the extent to which it has heretofore been regarded as within the police power. So far as
property is inoffensive or harmless, it can only be condemned
or destroyed by legal proceedings, with due notice to the
owner; but so far as it is dangerous to the safety or health of
the community, due process of law may authorize its summary
destruction. As was said in Jenkins v. Ballantyne, 8 Utah,
245, 247, " The emergency may be such as not to admit of the
delay essential to judicial inquiry and consideration, or the
subject of such action and process may be of such a nature, or
the conditions and circumstances in which the act must be
performed to effect the protection and give effect to the law
may be such as to render judicial inquiry and consideration
impracticable."
Although dogs are ordinarily harmless, they preserve some
of their hereditary wolfish instincts, which occasionally break
forth in the destruction of sheep and other helpless animals.
Others, too small to attack these animals, are simply vicious,
noisy and pestilent. As their depredations are often committed
at night, it is usually impossible to identify the dog or to fix the
VOL. CLXVI-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

liability upon the owner, who, moreover, is likely to be pecuniarily irresponsible. In short, the damages are usually such as
are beyond the reach of judicial process, and legislation of a
drastic nature is necessary to protect persons and property
from destruction and annoyance. Such logislation is clearly
within the police power of the State. It ordinarily takes the
form of a license tax, and the identification of the dog by a
collar and tag, upon which the name of the owner is sometimes
required to be engraved, but other remedies are not uncommon.
In Louisiana there is only a conditional property in dogs.
If they are given in by the owner to the assessor, and placed
upon the assessment rolls, they are entitled to the same legal
guaranties as other personal property, though in actions for
their death or injury the owner is limited in the amount of his
recovery to the value fixed by himself in the last assessment.
It is only under these restrictions that dogs are recognized as
property. In addition to this, dogs are required -by the municipal ordinance of New Orleans to be provided with a tag,
obtained from the treasurer, for which the owner pays a license
tax of two dollars. While these regulations are more than
ordinarily stringent, and might be declared to be unconstitutional, if applied to domestic animals generally, there is nothing
in them of which the owner of a dog has any legal right to
complain. It is purely within the discretion of the legislature
to say how far dogs shall be recognized as property, and under
what restrictions they shall be permitted to roam the streets.
The statute really puts a premium upon valuable dogs,.by giving them a recognized position, and by permitting the owner
to put his own estimate upon them.
There is -nothing in this law that is not within the police
power, or of which the plaintiff has a right to complain, and
the judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore,
Affirmed.

