OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

a party can hand up an instruction to the court and demand
as of right that it shall be given to the jury ; and then if the
court fails to recall the jury, and give such instruction, and
it embodies a proposition apparently correct, the judgment
must be set aside without any showing as to what the charge
of the court really was, or that it did not cover the matter
contained in this instruction asked at such late time. It is
unnecessary to consider whether the proposition of law as
stated therein is correct or not. It is enough to hold that,
so far as this record discloses the time and manner in which
this instruction was presented, it does not affirmatively appear
that it was presented under such circumstances as to demand
consideration on the part of the court.
These are all the questions presented. We see no error in
the record, and must affirm the judgment.
The defendant in error, plaintiff below, asks this court to
add ten per cent damages, on the ground of the frivolousness
of the errors alleged, and because the suing out of the writ of
error was for delay. Under clause 2 of Rule 23 of this court
we think this application should be granted.
The judgment is affirmed, with costs, and ten per cenr
damages.

PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. NAPIER
SHIPPING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 102.

Argued January 25, 1897. - Decided March 22, 1897.

The libel in this case was dismissed by the trial court. The judgment of
that court was reversed by the Court of Appeals, and the case was
remanded for assessment of damages. After assessment and decree it
was again taken to the Court of Appeals, where the decree of assessment
was affirmed, whereupon a writ of certiorari from this court was granted.
Held, that, upon such writ, the entire case was before this court for
examination.

PANAMA RAILROAD v. NAPIER SHIPPING CO.

281

Statement of the Case.
Torts originating within the waters of a foreign power may be the subjects
of a suit in a domestic court.
The facts in this case, as detailed in the statement below, do not show a
negligence on the part of the railroad company and its agents, which
makes it responsible to the shipping company for the damage caused by
the accident to the Stroma.

Tins was a libel in personam, filed in the District Court for
the Southern District of New York, to recover damages sustained by the libellant through injuries received by its steamer
Stroma, while lying at the respondent's pier in the port of
Colon.
The undisputed facts of the case were substhntially as follows: The libellant was a British corporation and owner of
the steamer Stroma, and the respondent a New York corporation, and the proprietor of certain piers known as piers
Nos. 1 and 2 at Colon, in the Isthmus of Panama, and of a
slip between those piers. These piers it was accustomed to
let to vessels desiring to use the same, and to charge wharfage
therefor. Between the piers, which were parallel to each
other, was a slip about 135 feet wide, in which there was
water to a depth of about 20 feet at the bulkhead, to 30 feet
at the end of the pier. Pier No. 2 was about 450 feet in
length, covered with a shed, in the sides of which were doors
at intervals for the transfer of cargo to and from vessels lying
at the pier.
For a few weeks prior to the arrival of the Stroma, respondent had been engaged in dredging the slip, and for this purpose had employed a steam dredge, 60 feet long by 30 feet
wide, consisting of a shallow scow, upon which were a steam
boiler, a crane operated by machinery and used for hoisting
the refuse from the bottom of the slip, and a spindle about
nine feet long, located in the middle of the forward end of the
scow, constituting the pivot of the crane. On December 6,
1888, while the dredge was anchored in the slip between the
piers, the port was visited by a storm known as a " norther,"
which was so violent that the vessel foundered and sank in
the slip. Respondent secured a wrecking vessel and diver to
raise the dredge and to remove it from the slip, operations

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

for which were begun December 15. The diver located the
dredge as lying diagonally across the slip, the corner of the
dredge being about 22 feet from pier No. 2; but owing to
the turbidnes of the water he did not discover the spindle.
He also found the crane and boiler detached from the dredge
and lying upon the other side toward pier No. 1. He marked
the dredge and detached machinery with buoys, located at the
end of the crane, at the platform, at the boiler and at the two
ends of the dredge, five buoys in all. Besides the buoys the
wrecking boat itself was secured in the slip near the wreck,
the head in and the stern towards the sea, with two lines
running across to each pier.
The Stroma arrived in Colon about eight o'clock in the
morning of December 31, drawing 11 feet forward and 13
feet aft, and, as she approached the piers, her consignee raised
a flag at the end of pier No. 2 to indicate the berth she was
to occupy. There was a shed on the pier, and in order to
avail herself of the openings in the slied in the discharge of
her cargo, the Stroma adjusted herself accordingly. She lay
at the pier during the day discharging her cargo, and was
there seen and visited by agents of the respondent. At about
six o'clock in the evening, it was reported that there was something wrong in the engine-room, and upon the engineer going
down, he heard a rush of water coming into the ship. An
investigation disclosed a hole in the bilge of the ship's bottom
on the starboard side, punctured by what was afterwards discovered to be the spindle rising from the deck of the sunken
dredge. The deck of the dredge was fifteen feet under water;
the spindle over seven feet in height, and about nine inches ia
diameter. The vessel continued to fill with water, and -sank.
Fifteen days later she was raised, temporarily repaired, and
then brought to Now York, where full repairs were made.
A considerable portion of her cargo was ruined, and other
portions damaged.
Upon a hearing in the District Court, the libel was dismissed', 42 Fed. Rep. 922, and upon ajppeal to the Circuit
Court (in which court tie appedl ws pending when the act
establishing the Court of Appeals was passed) the decree of

PANAMA RAILROAD v. NAPIER SHIPiPING CO.

283

Opinion of the Court.

the District Court was affirmed pro forma, and an appeal
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed the
decree of the District and Circuit Courts, 1 U. S. App. 161,
and remanded the cause to the Circuit Court for an ascertainment of damages, which were subsequently assessed in the
Circuit Court, and a final decree rendered for $38,861.86. A
second appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which, on April 19, 1894, affirmed the decree of the Circuit
Court. 20 U. S. App. 568. Whereupon respondent was
granted a writ of certiorari from this court.
Mr. FredericR. Goudert (with whom was Mr. David Keane
on the brief) for the railroad company.
Mr. Wihelmus 7ynderse for the shipping company.
MR. JusTicE

BROWN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The main question in this case is one of fact, and turns
upon the point whether the accident to the Stroma was
caused by the negligence of the respondent, or that of the
libellant.
1. It is claimed that, upon this hearing, we are limited to
the question of damages, for the reason that the writ of
certiorari was issued after the decrees of the District and
Circuit Courts, dismissing the libel upon the merits, had been
reversed; the case remanded to the Circuit Court to assess the
damages, a final decree of the Circuit Court for $38,861.86,
and a second appeal to the Court of Appeals, which had
pronounced an opinion affirming the decree of the Circuit
Court, although no formal decree seems to have been entered
at the time the writ of certiorari was issued. While this writ
begins with a recital that "there is now pending" ii the
Circuit Court of Appeals, "a suit in which," etc., we think
it is giving it too narrow a construction to hold that it was
intended to bring before this court only the question of
damages, then pending before the Circuit Court of Appeals,
particularly in view of the fact that the petition for the writ

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of certiorari set forth the facts of the case, and claimed that
upon those facts the libel should have been dismissedmaking no claim whatever that error had been committed
in the assessment of damages. A difference of opinion existed in the courts below upon the question of liability, and
the writ was granted to review the whole case as on appeal
from the second decree of the Circuit Court, which was contrary to its first decree, and was entered in obedience to the
direction of the Court of Appeals.
If, under such circumstances, this court were powerless to
examine the whole case upon certiorari, we should then be
compelled to issue it before final decree, whereas, as was
recently said in the case of The Conqueror, ante, 110, it is and
generally should be issued only after a final decree. The case
of The Lady Pike, 96 U. S. 461, is not in point. In that case
there had been an appeal from a decree dismissing the libel,
which was reversed by this court, and the cause remanded for
an assessment of damages. A second appeal was taken from
such assessment, and it was held that the reexamination of the
case could not extend to anything decided here upon the first
appeal. So in Ames v. Quimby, 106 U. S. 342, it was held that
after a new trial had been had, pursuant to the mandate of
this court, and a second judgment rendered, no errors other
than those. committed after the mandate was received below
can be considered here. To the same effect are Roberts v.
Cooper, 20 how. 467; Supervisors v. Kennicott, 94 U. S. 498;
Cldrk v. Keith, 106 U. S. 464; and CAaffin v. Taylor, 116
U. S. 567. But while the Court of Appeals may have been
limited on the second appeal to questions arising upon the
amount of damages, no such limitation applies to this bourt,
when, in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction, it issues
a writ of certiorari to bring up the whole record. Upon such
writ the entire case is before us for examination.
2. There is no difficulty about the jurisdiction of a court
of admiralty in this case. So far as concerns the subjectmatter of the libel it is covered by the case of Philadelphia, Wilmington &o. Railroad v. Philadelphia & Havre de
Grace Tow Boat Co., 23 How. 209, in which it was held that

PANAMA RAILROAD v. NAPIER SHIPPING CO.

285

Opinion of the Court.

the jurisdiction of a court of admiralty extended to an injury
received by a vessel, by running upon certain piles which had
been negligently left in the bed of the Susquehanna River
at Havre de Grace. See also Atlee v. Packet Company, 21
Wall. 389, and 2 Brown's Civ. & Adm. Law, 203.
The fact that the cause of action arose in the waters of a foreign port is immaterial. While in some cases it is said that a
court of admiralty has jurisdiction of all torts arising upon the

high seas, or upon the navigable waters of the United States,
The Commerce, 1 Black, 574; Holmes v., 0. & C. Railroad,5

Fed. Rep. 75; The Clatsop Chief,8 Fed. Rep. 767, the connection
in which those words are found indicate that they were not

used restrictively; and the law is entirely well settled both
in England and in this country, that torts originating within
the waters of a foreign power may be the subject of a suit
in a domestic court. The authorities upon this subject are
fully reviewed in an exhaustive opinion by the late Judge
Emmons in the case of The Avon, Brown's Adm. 170, wherein
jurisdiction was taken of a collision occurring upon the Welland Canal in Canada. To the same effect are Smith v.
Condry, 1 How. 28; The Ticonderoga, Swabey, 215; The
Griefswald, Swabey, 430; The Diana,Lushington, 539; The

Cou)-ier, Lushington, 541; The Halley, L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec.
3; S. C. L. R. 2 P.C. 193; The Mali Ivo, L. R. 2 Ad. &
Ec. 356; The H. Moxham, 1 P. D. 43, 107.

Indeed, large numbers of collisions arise upon the Canadian
side of the St. Clair, Detroit and St. Lawrence rivers, which
would not be cognizable in our courts, if the general proposition claimed by the appellant were true, since by the treaty
between this country and Great Britain the boundary line is
located in or near the centre of the river.
Had both parties to the libel been foreigners, it might have
been within the discretion of the court to decline jurisdiction
of the case, though the better opinion is that, even under
those circumstances, the court will take cognizance of torts

to which both parties are foreigners; at least in the absence
of a protest from a foreign consul. The Maggie Hammond,
9 Wall. 435; The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355; The Courier,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Lushington, 541; The Havana, 1 Sprague, 402; The Jnvincible, 2 Gall. 29; The Johann Friederich,1 W. Rob. 35; The
Charkieh, L. R. 4 Ad. & Ec. 120; The Vivar, 2 P. D. 29;
The Anne Johanne, Stuart, Vice Adm. 43; Thomassen v.
fk
ritwell, 9 Ben. 113; Chubb v. Hamburg-American Packet
Co., 39 Fed. Rep. 431.
3. Was there any negligence on the part of the respondent, or, to state it more accurately, was there any negligence
with respect to the libellant, or of which it was entitled to
complain ?
The owners of the Stroma were represented at Colon by
one Andrews, who was acting as the agent for William
Warriner, the regular agent of the West India and Pacific
Steamship Company, and the consignee at Colon of the
Stroma. Learning that the steamer was about to arrive,
Andrews wrote to Mr. Abello, the harbor master of the port
and the freight agent of the Panama Company, asking him
that a berth be assigned to the Stroma, which was expected
to arrive in a day or two. In reply, Mr. Abello came to him
in person, and, as Abello says, told him the West Indian, also
expected, could go to No. 1 wharf, but that he had no berth
for the Stroma. Mr. Andrews suggested to him that the
seaward end of the north side of No. 2 wharf might
be a
suitable place, and Abello assented to his putting her there.
Andrews admits that he had seen the dredge sink in the slip,
but claims that "at the time it sunk it was lying close to No. 1
wharf, to which it had been moored," the distance between
the two wharves being about one hundred and fifty feet. As
his office was opposite Abello's, and but a short distance from
the dock, he must have known that a diver had been engaged
in the work of raising the sunken dredge, although he testifies
that he could not say that he saw the diver at work, and did
not remember being informed that the dredge was broken into
pieces, which were scattered about in several places in the slip.
He could hardly have failed to observe that no vessel had been
moored on that side of the slip since the dredge sank. He
denies that he had seen any of the buoys which had been
placed to mark the position of the sunken dredge, and says

PANAMA RAILROAD v. NAPIER SHIPPING CO.

287

Opinion of the Court.

that he took it for granted that the railroad company, having
had a diver at work on the sunken dredge .for several days,
knew whether this berth was safe or not; that he relied upon
their knowledge for a safe berth, and supposed that the wreck
was on the north side of the slip where he saw the dredge
sink. It appears, however, that operations for raising the
wreck had been progressing for about three weeks prior to
the arrival of the Stroma.
The steamer arrived at about 8 o'clock in the morning of
December 31, was met by a boat sent out by the agent of-the
company to direct her to the dock, and was ordered by the
man in charge to go to pier No. 2, and find a berth on
the north side of the wharf. As the steamer approached, the
company's flag was displayed from the corner of the wharf,
indicating the position she should take. As she neared the
wharf, Andrews spoke to the officer in charge, reminding him
of the dredge being there, pointing him in the direction, and
then called out to the captain "hug in close to the wharf, and
you will clear the wreck." The testimony of the supercargo
of the Stroma was that, as the steamer swung along parallel
with the pier, Andrews called out to the captain "to be very
careful in backing up the dock and not permit the stern of
the ship to swing out into the dock, as there was a sunken
dredge somewhere up the dock that it might run foul of";
and that similar instructions were given by Mr. Commager,
an employ6 of the railroad company, who was standing on
the dock awaiting her arrival.
This testimony is corroborated by Commager himself, who
swears that, when he went down to meet the steamer, he
reminded Andrews of the danger, saying: "I suppose you have
not forgotten about that dredge," pointing out its position,
and that Andrews did not answer him, but spoke to some
officer of the boat, calling out and reminding him of the
dredge being there. This testimony is also corroborated by
that of the witness Muller, also an employ6 of the railroad
company, who heard the conversation with Commager. It
would appear that at this time the buoys which had been
placed to mark the position of the wreck were still visible-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

at least four witnesses swore to that effect, and there was
practically nothing to contradict them. But as they do not
seem to have been at all conspicuous we do not think that
negligence can be imputed to any one for not observing them.
Had the respondent undertaken, through its agent, to provide a berth for the Stroma and see that she was properly
moored, it would probably have been responsible for this
accident; but it appears that Abello, the company's agent,
on being applied to for a berth, merely assented to a suggestion made by Andrews, that the Stroma was a small steamer,
and that he could very easily put her on the north side of
No. 2 pier, on the other side of the obstruction (meaning
thereby the seaward end of the wharf), to which Andrews
replied that "if you will do that there will be no objection
to your doing so." He further says that, in the same interview, Andrews told him that he had seen the dredge sink;
that he had been on the wharf when she had sunk in the
morning, and that he had witnessed her going down. Not
only had Andrews undertaken himself to bring the ship to a
berth, but he admits it to have been the custom of the place
for the railroad company to leave the putting of the ship at the
berth entirely under the management of the agent of the ship.
Under such circumstances, it is clear that Andrews, knowing
that the dredge was sunk somewhere in the slip, should have
made further inquiries as to its exact location, since from their
conversation, and from what Abello knew of Andrews' knowledge, he had a right to assume that Andrews had informed
himself of the danger of the Stroma lying there, and of the
spot where the dredge was sunk; or, at least, that he would
look for the buoys and ascertain for himself.
In all the cases in which wharfingers have been held for
casualties of this kind, the vessel has approached the slip in
ignorance of the real condition of the bottom, and the respondent has been held liable, upon the theory'that it was his duty
to furnish a safe berth.
This test is manifestly inapplicable where the agent of the
vessel is already acquainted with the danger, and assumes the
responsibility of providing her with a safe berth. In this case

PANAMA RAILROAD v. NAPIER SHIPPING CO.

289

Opinion of the Court.

there was no misrepresentation or concealment, and if Abello
did not point out the precise location of the dredge, it was evidently because he supposed, and had a right to suppose, that
Andrews knew it already, or would make further inquiries if
he deemed it necessary. It is altogether probable that both
parties assumed that the Stroma, being a small steamer, drawing only thirteen feet of water, when there was twenty-two
feet of clear water above the deck of the dredge, could safely
lie inside, if not immediately over, the dredge, and that both
overlooked the existence of the spindle; but if Andrews was
apprised of the danger which the Stroma might incur by lying
there, it is scarcely just to impose a liability upon the respondent for the consequences of the spindle-the existence of
which did not appear to have been known either to Andrews
or to Abello, and which, if known, neither party had considered of sufficient importance to specially provide against. It
would doubtless have been more prudent for Abello to have
informed Andrews fully and explicitly of the danger he was
incurring, but we think that, under the circumstances, he discharged his legal obligation.
As the diver, who was sent down to locate and buoy the
dredge, never discovered the spindle, owing to the extreme
turbidness of the water, it is difficult to see how negligence
can be imputed to the respondent for not having warned the
master of the steamer specially against it. Indeed, so little
appears to have been known about it that, when a consultation was called, after the accident occurred, at which Mr.
Andrews and Mr. Dennis, an associate superintendent of the
respondent, took part, no one of them was able to surmise
what had caused the disaster - the general opinion seeming
to be that the Sroma had settled upon a pile, or a piece of
machinery dropped by a Spanish steamer. No one suspected
that the dredge had caused the damage, until the diver and
surveyors on the following day reported the fact. If, as we
have already found, Mr. Andrews was either apprised of, or
put upon inquiry, as to all the facts with regard to the location of the sunken dredge, respondent cannot be chargeable
with negligence because it did not warn him specially against
VOL. CLXVI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

the spindle, since it had not been informed of its existence by
the diver, who does not seem to have been guilty of any negligence in not discovering it, and for whose negligence it is at
least doubtful whether respondent would have been liable.
Inasmuch as we are of opinion that the Circuit Court of
Appeals was in error in holding the respondent liable,
The decree of the Circuit Court of July 7, 1891, must be
afirmed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directionsto dismiss the libel.

UNITED

STATES

v. TRANS-MISSOURI
ASSOCIATION.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

FREIGHT

THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 6.

Argued December 8, 9,1896. - Decided March 22, 1897.

The dissolution of the freight association does not prevent this court from
taking cognizance of the appeal and deciding the case on its merits; as,
where parties have entered into an illegal agreement and are acting
under it, and there is no adequate remedy at law, and the jurisdiction
of'the court has attached by the filing of a bill to restrain such or like
action under a similar agreement, and a trial has been had and judgment
entered, the appellate jurisdiction of this court is not ousted by a simple
dissolution of the association, effected subsequently to the entry of judgment in the suit.
While the statutory amount must as a matter of fact be in controversy, yet
the fact that it is so need not appear in the bill, but may be shown to the
satisfaction of the court.
The provisions respecting contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign
countries, contained in the act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, "to protect trade
and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies," apply to and
cover common carriers by railroad; and a contract between them in
restraint of such trade or commerce is prohibited, even though the contract is entered into between competing railroads, only for the purpose
of thereby affecting traffic rates for the transportation of persons and
property.
The act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, "to regulate commerce," is not incon-

