OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

the spindle, since it had not been informed of its existence by
the diver, who does not seem to have been guilty of any negligence in not discovering it, and for whose negligence it is at
least doubtful whether respondent would have been liable.
Inasmuch as we are of opinion that the Circuit Court of
Appeals was in error in holding the respondent liable,
The decree of the Circuit Court of July 7, 1891, must be
afirmed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directionsto dismiss the libel.

UNITED

STATES

v. TRANS-MISSOURI
ASSOCIATION.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

FREIGHT

THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 6.

Argued December 8, 9,1896. - Decided March 22, 1897.

The dissolution of the freight association does not prevent this court from
taking cognizance of the appeal and deciding the case on its merits; as,
where parties have entered into an illegal agreement and are acting
under it, and there is no adequate remedy at law, and the jurisdiction
of'the court has attached by the filing of a bill to restrain such or like
action under a similar agreement, and a trial has been had and judgment
entered, the appellate jurisdiction of this court is not ousted by a simple
dissolution of the association, effected subsequently to the entry of judgment in the suit.
While the statutory amount must as a matter of fact be in controversy, yet
the fact that it is so need not appear in the bill, but may be shown to the
satisfaction of the court.
The provisions respecting contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign
countries, contained in the act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, "to protect trade
and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies," apply to and
cover common carriers by railroad; and a contract between them in
restraint of such trade or commerce is prohibited, even though the contract is entered into between competing railroads, only for the purpose
of thereby affecting traffic rates for the transportation of persons and
property.
The act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, "to regulate commerce," is not incon-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

291

Statement of the Case.
sistent with the act of July 2, 1890, as it (toes not confer upon competing railroad companies power to enter into a contract in restraint of
trade and commerce, like the one which forms the subject of this suit.
Debates in Congress are not appropriate sources of information, from
which to discover the meaning of the language of a statute passed by
that body.
The prohibitory provisions of the said act of July 2, 1890, apply to all contracts in restraint of interstate or foreign trade or commerce without
exception or limitation; and are not confined to those in which the
restraint is unreasonable.
In order to maintain this suit the government is not obliged to show that
the agreement in question was entered into for the purpose of restraining trade or commerce, if such restraint is its necessary effect.
This agreement, though legal when made, became illegal on the passage of
the act of July 2, 1890, and acts done under it after that statute became
operative were done in violation of it.
The fourth section of the act Invests the Government with full power and
authority to bring such a suit as this; and, if the facts alleged are
proved, an injunction should issue.

ON the 2d of July, 1890, an act was passed by the Congress
of the United States, entitled " An' act to protect trade and
commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies." 26
Stat. 209, c. 647. The act is given in full in the margin.'
'An act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled,
SEC. 1. Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise,
or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States,
or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal. Every Vterson
who shall make any such contract or engage in any such combination or
conspiracy, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, -or by
imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said punishments, in the
discretion of the court.
SEC. 2. Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or
combine or conspire with any other person or persons, to monopolize any
part of the trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign
nations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by
imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said punishments, in the
discretion of the court.
.SEC. 3. Every contract, combination in form of trust or otherwise or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce in any Territory of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

On the 15th day of March, 1889, all but three of the
defendants, the railway companies named in the bill, made
and entered into an agreement by which they formed themselves into an association to be known as the "Trans-Missouri
Freight Association," and they agreed to be governed by the
provisions contained in the articles of agreement.
The memorandum of agreement entered into between the
railway companies named therein, stated, among other things,
as follows: "For the purpose of mutual protection by establishing and maintaining reasonable rates, rules and regulations
on all freight traffic, both through and local, the subscribers
do hereby form an association to be known as the TransMissouri Freight Association, and agree to be governed by
the following provisions."
" ARTICLE I.

"The traffic to be included in the Trans-Missouri Freight
Association shall be as follows:
States or of the District of Columbia, or in restraint of trade or commerce
between any such Territory and another, or between any such Territory or
Territories and any State or States or the District of Columbia, or with
foreign nations, or between the District of Columbia and any State or
States or foreign nations, is hereby declared illegal. Every person who
shall make any such contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by
imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said punishments, in the
discretion of the court.
SEC. 4. The several Circuit Courts of the United States are hereby invested with jurisdiction to prevent and restrain violations of this act; and
it shall be the duty of the several district attorneys of the United States, in
their respective districts, under the direction of the Attorney General, to
institute proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain such violations.
Such proceedings may be by way of petition setting forth the case and
praying that such violation shall be enjoined or otherwise prohibited.
When the parties complained of shall have been duly notified of such
petition the court shall proceed, as soon as may be, to the hearing and determination of the case; and pending such petition and before final decree,
the court may at any time make such temporary restraining order or prohibition as shall be deemed just in the premises.
SEC. 5. Whenever it shall appear to the court before which any proceed-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

293

Statement of the Case.

"1. All traffic competitive between any two or more members hereof, passing between points in the following described
territory: Commencing at the Gulf of Mexico, on the 95th
meridian, thence north to the Red River; thence via that
river to the eastern boundary line of the Indian Territory;
thence north by said boundary line and the eastern line of
the State of Kansas to the Missouri River at Kansas City;
thence via the said Missouri River to the point of intersection
of that river with the eastern boundary of Montana; thence
via the said eastern boundary line to the international line, the foregoing to be known as the IMissouri River line,'thence via said international line to the Pacific coast; thence
via the Pacific coast to the international line between the
United States and Mexico; thence via said international line
to the Gulf of Mexico, and thence via said gulf to the point
of beginning, including business between points on the boundary line as described.
ing under section four of this act may be pending, that the ends of justice
require that other parties should be brought before the court, the court
may cause them to be summoned, whether they reside in the district in
which the court is held or not; and subpoenas to that end may be served
in any district by the marshal thereof.
SEc. 6. Any property owned under any contract or by any combination,
or pursuant to any conspiracy (and being the subject thereof) mentioned
in section one of this act, and being in the course of transportation from
one State to another, or to a foreign country, shall be forfeited to the
United States, and may be seized and condemned by like proceedings as
those provided by law for the forfeiture, seizure and condemnation of
property imported into the United States contrary to law.
SEc. 7. Any person who shall be injured in his business or property by
any other person or corporation by reason of anything forbidden or declared to be unlawful by this act, may sue therefor in any Circuit Court
of the United States in the district in which the defendant resides or is
found, without respect to the amount In controversy, and shall recover
threefold the damages by him sustained, and the costs of suit, including
a reasonable attorney's fee.
SEC. 8. That the word "person," or " persons," wherever used in this
act shall be deemed to include corporations and associations existing under
or authorized by the laws of either the United States, the laws of any of
the Territories, the laws of any State, or the laws of any foreign country.
Approved, July 2, 1890.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"2. All freight traffic originating within the territory as
defined in the first section when destined to points east of
the aforesaid Missouri River line."
Certain exceptions to the above article are then stated as
to the particular business of several railway companie, which
was to be regarded as outside and beyond the provisions of
the agreement.
Article II provided for the election of a chairman of the
organization and for meetings at Kansas City, or otherwise,
as might be provided for. By section 2 of that article each
road was to "designate to the chairman one person who shall
be held personally responsible for rates on that road. Such
person shall be present at all regular meetings, when possible,
and shall represent his road, unless a superior officer is present.
If unable to attend he shall send a substitute with written authority to act upon all questions which may arise, and the
vote of such substitute shall be binding upon the company
he represents."
Section 3 provides that: "A committee shall be appointed
to establish rates, rules and regulations on the traffic subject
to this association, and to consider changes therein, and make
rules for meeting the competition of outside lines. Their conclusions, when unanimous, shall be made effective when they
so order, but if they differ the question at issue shall be referred to the managers of the lines parties hereto; and if they
disagree it shall be arbitrated in the manner provided in
article VII."
By section 4 it was provided that: "At least five days'
written notice prior to each monthly meeting shall be given
the chairman of any proposed reduction in rates or change in
any rule or regulation governing freight traffic; eight days in
so far as applicable to the traffic of Colorado or Utah."
Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of article IIread as follows:
"Sc. 5. At each monthly meeting the association shall
consider and vote upon all changes proposed, of which due
notice has been given, and all parties shall be bound by the
decision of the association, as expressed, unless then and there

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

295

Statement of the Case.

the parties shall give ttie association definite written notice
that, in ten days thereafter, they shall make such modification
notwithstanding the vote of the association: Provided,That
if the member giving notice of change shall fail to be represented at the meeting, no action shall be taken on its notice,
and the same shall be considered withdrawn. Should any
member insist upon a reduction of rate against the views of
the majority, or if the majority favor the same, and if, in the
judgment of such majority, the rate so made affects seriously
the rates upon other traffic, then the association may, by a
majority vote, upon such other traffic put into effect corresponding rates to take effect on the same day. By unanimous
consent, any rate, rule or regulation relating to freight traffic
may be modified at any meeting of the association without
previous notice.
"SEC. 6. Notwithstanding anything in this article contained,
each member may,. at its peril, make at any time, without
previous notice, such rate, rule or regulations as may be necessary to meet the competition of lines not members of the
association, giving at the same time notice to the chairman of
its action in the premises. If the chairman, upon investigation,
shall decide that such rate is not necessary to meet the direct
competition of lines not members of the association, and shall
so notify the road making the rate, it shall immediately withdraw such rate. At the next meeting of the association held
after the making of such rate, it shall be reported to the
association, and if the association shall decide by a two-thirds
vote that such rate was not made in good faith to meet such
competition, the member offending shall be subject to the
penalty provided in section 8 of this article. If the association shall decide by a two-thirds vote that such rate was made
in good faith to meet such competition, it shall be considered
as authority for the rate so made.
"SEC. 7. All arrangements with connecting lines for the
division of through rates relating to traffic covered by this
agreement shall be made by authority of the association:
Provided, however, That when one road has a proprietary
interest in another, .the divisions between such roads shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statemert of the Case.

what they may elect, and shall not be the property of the
association: Provided,further, That, as regards traffic contracts at this date actually existing between lines not having
common proprietary interests, the same shall be reported, so
far as divisions are concerned, to the association, to the end
that divisions with competing lines may, if thought advisable
by them, be made on equally favorable terms.
"SEc. 8. It shall be the duty of the chairman to investigate
all apparent violations of the agreement, and to report his
findings to the managers, who shall determine, by a majority
vote (the member against whom complaint is made to have no
vote), what, if any, penalty shall be assessed, the amount of
each fine not to exceed one hundred dollars, to be paid to the
association. If any line party hereto agrees with a shipper,
or any one else, to secure a reduction or change in rates, or
change in the rules and regulations, and it is shown upon investigation by the chairman that such an arrangement was
effected, and traffic thereby secured, such action shall be reported to the managers, who shall determine, as above provided, what, if any, penalty shall be assessed.
"Sxc. 9. When a penalty shall have been declared against
any member of this association, the chairman shall notify the
managing officer of said company that such fine has been
assessed, and that within ten days thereafter he will draw
for the amount of the fine; and the draft, when presented,
shall be honored by the company thus assessed.
"SEc. 10. All fines collected to be used to defray the expenses of the association, the offending party not to be benefited by the amounts it may pay as fines.
"S1Ec. 11. Any member not present or fully represented at
roll call of general or special meetings of the freight association, of which due and proper notice has been given, shall be
fined one dollar, to be assessed against his company, unless he
shall have previously filed with the chairman notice of inability to be present or represented."
Articles 3, 5' 6 and 7 contain appropriate provisions for the
carrying out of the purposes of the agreement, but it is not
necessary to here set them forth in detail.

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

297

Statement of the. Case.

Article IV reads as follows:
" ARTICLE

IV.

"Any wilful underbilling in weights, or billing of freight
at wrong classification, shall be considered a violation of this
agreement; and the rules and regulations of any weighing
association or inspection bureau, as established by it or as
enforced by its officers and agents, shall be considered binding under the provisions of this agreement, and any wilful
violation of them shall be subject to the penalties provided
herein."
Article VIII provides that the agreement should take effect
April 1, 1889, subject thereafter to thirty days' notice of a desire on the part of any line to withdraw from the same.
On the 6th of January, 1892, the United States, as complainant, filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Kansas, through the United States attorney
for that district, and under the direction of the Attorney
General of the United States, its bill of complaint against
the Trans-Missouri Freight Association, named in the agreement above mentioned, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railroad Company, and some seventeen other railroad companies, the officers of which had, it was alleged, signed the
agreement above mentioned in behalf of and for their respective companies. The bill was filed by the Government for
the purpose of having the agreement between the defendant
railroad companies set aside and declared illegal and void, and
to have the association dissolved.
It alleged that the defendant railroad corporations, signing
the agreement, were at that time and ever since had been
common carriers of all classes and kinds of freight and commodities which .mere commonly moved, carried and transported by railroad companies in their freight traffic, and at
all such times had been, and then were, continuously engaged
in transporting freight and commodities in the commerce,
trade and traffic which is continuously carried on among and
between the several States of the United States, and among

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

and between the several States and Territories of the United
States, and between the people residing in, and all persons engaged in trade and commerce within and among and between,
the States, Territories and countries aforesaid; that each of
the defendants was, prior to the 15th day of March, 1889,
the owner and in the control of, and that they were respectively operating and using, distinct and separate lines of railroad, fitted up for carrying on business as such carriers in the
freight traffic above mentioned, independently and disconnectedly with each other, and that said lines of railroad had been
and then were the only lines of transportation and communication engaged in the freight traffic between and among • the
States and Territories of the United States having through
'lines for said freight traffic in all that region of country lying.
to the westward of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers and
east of the Pacific Ocean; that these lines of rail*road furnish
to the public and to persons engaged in trade and traffic and
commerce between the several States and Territories and
countries above mentioned separate, distinct and competitive
lines of transportation and communication extending along
and between the States and Territories of the United States
lying westward of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers to the
Pacific Ocean, and that the construction and maintenance of
said several separate, distin'ct and competitive lines of railroad
aforesaid had been encouraged and assisted by the United
States and by the States and Territories in the region of
country aforesaid, and by the people of the said several States
and Territories, by franchises and by grants and donations of
large amounts of land of great value, and of money and securities, for the purpose of securing to the public and to the
people engaged in trade and commerce throughout the region
of country aforesaid competitive lines of transportation and
communication, and that prior to the 15th day of March,
1889, and subsequently and up to the present time, each and
all of said defendants have been and are engaged as common
carriers in the railway freight traffic connected with the interstate commerce of the United States.
It was then alleged in the bill as follows:

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

299

Statement of the Case.

"And your orator further avers that on or about the fifteenth day of March, 1889, the defendants not being content
with the usual rates and prices for which they and others
were accustomed to move, carry and. transport property,
freight and commodities in the trade and commerce aforesaid and in their said business and occupation, but contriving
and intending unjustly and oppressively to increase and augment the said rates and prices, and to ,Lkunteract the effect
of free competition on the facilities and prices of transportation, and to establish and maintain arbitrary rates, and to
prevent any one of said defendants from reducing such arbitrary rates, and thereby exact and procure great sums of
money from the people of the said States and Territories
aforesaid, and from the people engaged in the interstate
commerce, trade and traffic within the region of country
aforesaid, and from all persons having goods, wares and merchandise to be transported by said railroads, and intending
to monopolize the trade, traffic and commerce among and
between the States and Territories aforesaid, did combine,
conspire, confederate and unlawfully agree together, and did
then and there enter into a written' contract, combination,
agreement and compact, known as a memorandum of agreement of the Trans-Missouri Freight Association, which was
signed by each of said above-named defendants."
The bill then set forth the agreement signed by the various
corporations defendant.

It was further alleged that the agreement went into effect on
the 1st day of April, 1889, and that since that time each and
all of the defendants, by reason of the agreement,-have put
into effect and kept in force upon the several lines of railroads
the rules and regulations and rates and prices for moving,
carrying and transporting freight fixed and established by
the association, and have declined and refused to fix or establish and maintain or give on their railroads rates and prices
for the carrying of freight based upon the cost of constructing
and maintaining their several lines of railroad and the cost
of carrying freights over the same, and such other elements
as should be considered in establishing tariff rates upon each

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

particular road, and the people of the States and Territories
subject to said association, and all persons engaged in trade
and commerce within, among and between the different States
and Territories had been compelled to and were still compelled
to pay the arbitrary rates of freight and submit to the arbitrary rules and regulations established and maintained by
the association, and ever since that date had been and still
were deprived of the benefits that might be expected to flow
from free competition between said several lines of transportation and communication, and were deprived of the better
facilities and cheaper rates of freight that might be reasonably expected to flow from free competition between the lines
above mentioned, and that the trade, traffic and commerce
in such region of country, and the freight traffic in connection
therewith, had been and were monopolized and restrained,
hindered, injured and retarded by the defendants by means
of and through the instrumentality of such association.
The bill further averred that notwithstanding the passage
of the act of Congress above mentioned on the 2d day of
July, 1890, the "defendants still continue in and still engage
in said unlawful combination and consp!racy, and still maintain said Trans-Missouri Freight Association, with all the
powers specified in the memorandum of agreement and articles
of association hereinbefore set forth, which said agreement,
combination and conspiracy so as aforesaid entered into and
maintained by said defendants is of great injury and grievous
prejudice to the common and public good and to the welfare
of the people of the United States."
The prayer of the bill was as follows:
"In consideration whereof, and inasmuch as your orator
can only have adequate relief in the premises in this honorable court where matters of this nature are properly cognizable and relievable, your orator prays that this honorable
court may order, adjudge and decree that said Trans-Missouri
Freight Association be dissolved, and that said defendants,
and all and each of them, be enjoined and prohibited from
further agreeing, combining and conspiring and acting togetler to maintain rules and regulations and rates for carry-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

301

Statement of the Case.

ing freight upon their several lines of railroad to hinder trade
and commerce between the States and Territories' of the
United States, and that all and each of them be enjoined and
prohibited from entering or continuing in a combination, association or conspiracy to deprive the people engaged in trade
and commerce between and among the States and Territories
of the United States of such facilities and rates and charges
of freight transportation as will be afforded by free and unrestrained competition between the said several lines of railroad, and that all and each of said defendants be enjoined
and prohibited from agreeing, combining and conspiring and
acting together to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the
freight traffic in the trade and commerce between the States
and Territories of the United States, and that all and each
of said defendants be enjoined and prohibited from agreeing,
combining and conspiring and acting together to prevent each
and any of their associates from carrying freight and commodities in the trade and commerce between the States and
Territories of the United States at such rates as shall be voluntarily fixed by the officers and agents of each of said roads
acting independently and separately in its own behalf."
The defendants were required to answer fully, etc., each
and all of the matters charged in the bill, but such answer
was not required to be under oath, an answer under oath
being specially waived.
The Chicago, Kansas and Nebraska Railway Company, the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company and the Denver, Texas and Fort Worth Railroad Company denied being
parties to the association. The other fifteen companies filed
separate answers, each setting up substantially the same defence.
They admitted they were common carriers engaged in the
transportation of persons and property in the States and
Territories mentioned in the agreement, and they alleged
that as such common carriers they were subject to the provisions of the act of Congress, approved February 4, 1887,
c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, entitled "An act to regulate commerce,"
with the various amendments thereof and additions thereto,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

and they alleged that that act and the amendments constituted a system of regulations established by Congress for
common carriers subject to the act, and they denied that they
were subject to the provisions of the act of Congress passed
July 2, 1890, above set forth.
They admit that they severally own, control and operate
separate and distinct lines of railroad constructed and fitted
for carrying on business as common carriers of freight, independently and disconnectedly with each other; except that a
common interest exists between certain companies, named in
the answer. They admit that the lines of railroad mentioned
in the bill furnish lines of transportation and communication
to persons engaged in freight traffic between and among the
States and Territories of the United States, having through
lines for freight traffic in that region of country lying to the
westward of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers and east of
the Pacific Ocean, but deny that they are the only such lines,
and allege that there are several others, naming them.
They further admitted that prior to the organization of the
freight association the defendants furnished to the public and
to persons engaged in trade, traffic-and commerce between
the several States and Territories named in the agreement,
separate, distinct and competitive lines of transportation and
communication, and they allege that they still continue to
do so.
They admitted that some of the roads mentioned in the
bill received. aid by land grants from the United States, and
others received aid from States and Territories by loans of
credits, donations of depot sites and rights of way, and in a
few cases by investments of money, and that the people of
the States and Territories to a limited extent made investments in thestocks and bonds of some of the roads, while
others, mentioned in the bill, were almost exclusively constructed by capital furnished by non-residents of that region.
It was also admitted that the purpose of the land grants,
loans, donations and investments was to obtain the construction of competitive lines of transportation and communication
to the end that the public and the people engaged in trade

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

303

Statement of the Case.

and commerce throughout that region of country might have
facilities afforded by railways in communicating with each
other and with other portion of the United States and the
world, and denied that they were granted for any other
purpose.
The defendants admitted the formation on or about March
15, 1889, of the voluntary association described in the bill as
the "Trans-Missouri Freight Association."
They denied the allegation that they were not content with
the rates and prices prevailing at the date of the agreement;
they denied any intent to unjustly increase rates, and denied
that the agreement destroyed, prevented or illegally limited
or influenced competition; they denied that arbitrary rates
were fixed or charged, or that rates had been increased, or
that the effect of free competition had been counteracted;
they denied any purpose in the formation of the association
to monopolize trade, traffic and commerce between the States
and Territories within the region mentioned in the bill; and
they denied that the agreement was in any respect the illegal
result of any unlawful confederation or conspiracy. The defendants alleged that the proper object of the association was
to establish reasonable rates, rules and regulations on all
freight traffic, and the maintenance of such rates until
changed in the manner provided by law; that the agreement was filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission
as required by section 6 of the act of February 4, 1887.
They also alleged that it was not the purpose of the association to prevent the members from reducing rates or changing
the rules and regulations fixed by the association; that by
the terms of the agreement each member might do so, the
preliminary requirement being that the proposed change
should be voted upon at a meeting of the association, after
which, if the proposal was not agreed to, the line making the
proposal could make such reduced rate notwithstanding the
objection of the other lines; that the purpose of this provision
was to afford opportunity for the consideration of the reasonableness of any proposed rate, rule or regulation by all lines
interested and an interchange of views on the effect of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

reduction, and that reductions of rates had been made in
numerous instances through said process by the association.
They admitted that the agreement took effect April 1, 1889,
and that it had remained in operation since, and that the
rates, rules and regulations fixed and established from time
to time under said agreement had been put into effect and
maintained in conformity to law; and it was denied that by
reason of the agreement or under duress of fines and penalties, or otherwise, the defendants had refused to establish and
maintain just and reasonable rates; and it was alleged that
the object of the association at all times had been and was
to establish all rates, rules and regulations upon a just and
reasonable basis, and to avoid unjust discrimination and undue
preference. They denied that shippers or the public were in
any way oppressed or injured by reason of the rates fixed by
the association, but on the contrary they alleged that the
agreement and the association established under it had been
beneficial to the patrons of the railway lines composing the
association and the public at large. These in substance were
the allegations in-the various answers.
The cause came on for hearing on bill and answer before
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, First Division. That court dismissed the bill without
costs against the complainant. 53 Fed. Rep. 440. The Government duly appealed from the judgment to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and that
court after argument affirmed, in October, 1893, the judgment
of the Circuit Court, without costs, Shiras, District Judge, dissenting. 19 U. S. App. 36. From that judgment the Government appealed to this court.
A motion was made upon affidavits to dismiss the appeal.
The affidavits show that on the 18th of November, 1892, a
resolution was adopted by the Trans-Missouri Freight Association, one of the defendants, providing that the organization
should be discontinued from and after the 19th of November,
1892, and the secretary was instructed to wind up its affairs
at as early a date as possible. It further appeared by the
affidavits that the Trans-Missouri Freight Association was

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

305

Statement of the Case.

actually dissolved and its existence ended on the above date,
November 19, 1892, and that it has not since that date been
revived, nor has it since that date had any activity of any
kind, "and that it has not conducted or been engaged in any
operations or business whatever, but that it has been dead and
out of existence."
It also alleged as another ground for dismissing the appeal
that the matter in controversy does not exceed $1000, and that
the case does not come under any other provision of the act of
1891, allowing an appeal from the Circuit Courts of Appeals
to this court. In opposition to the motion it appeared upon
the part of the appellant that at the same meeting at which
the resolution above referred to was adopted, the foll6wing
resolution was also adopted: "Resolved, That a committee of
seven be appointed by the chairman of this meeting to draw up
a new agreement for the conduct of business now substantially
covered by the Trans-Missouri agreement and to make a report
to all lines in the Trans-Missouri Association at a meeting
to be called in Chicago on December 6, 1892." A committee
of seven was accordingly appointed, which adopted a resolution
calling a meeting for the 6th of December, 1892, of the lines
formerly members of the Trans-Missouri Association and representatives of other interested lines for the purpose of considering any changes in the tariffs and of business which was
under the jurisdiction of that association and which might be
submitted to the parties at that time, and to further consider
the organization of one or more rate committees to govern
the manner of making rates on such traffic until some permanent organization could be effected. In the early days
of December, 1892, the meeting so called was held and was
participated in by most of the railroad companies which were
parties to the Trans-Missouri agreement, and at that meeting
an agreement was made upon the subject of rates of freight,
and a West-Missouri freight rate committee was appointed,
the duties of which committee were to establish and maintain
reasonable rates in the territory described, and other lines not
therein represented but interested in the freight traffic of such
territory were to be invited to become members. A plan for
vo'. ci.xvi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Parties.

the establishment of sub-rate committees for the purpose of
agreeing upon rates was therein set forth and agreed to. The
agreement was to become effective on the 1st of January, 1892,
and to remain in force until the following April, during which
time it was supposed that a new and permanent association to
provide for an agreement relating to rates of freight might be
founded. It does not appear whether such permanent association has been formed or that the temporary agreement has
been actually terminated.
In answer to the motion to dismiss on the ground that the
matter in controversy did not amount to over a thousand
dollars, the parties have stipulated as follows: "It is hereby
stipulfted for the purposes of this case and no other, and
without waiving any right to question the legal effect of such
fact, that the daily freight charges on interstate shipments
collected by all the railway companies at points where they
compete with each other were, at the time of the agreement
mentioned in the pleadings herein, and have been since, more
than one thousand dollars."
To the motion made to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction, briefs were filed as follows:
fr. W. .Guthrie filed a brief on behalf of the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company in support of the
motion.
Mr.Lloyd W. Bowers filed a brief on behalf of the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company, the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railroad Company, the Fremont, Elkhorn
and Missouri Valley Railroad Company, The Sioux City
and Pacific Railroad Company and the Chicago, St. Paul,
Minneapolis and Omaha Railway Company in support of the
motion.
Mr.Attorney General and Mr.Assistant Attorney General
Whitney for the United States filed a brief opposing the
motion.

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

307

Opinion of the Court.

At the hearing on the merits one hour additional time was,
on motion of Mr. Dillon, allowed to each side.
Mr. Attorney General for the United States, appellants.
Mr. John F. Dillon for the Freight Association, appellees.
Mr. A. L. Williams, Mr. Harry Hubbard and Mr. John M.
Dillon were on his brief.
Mr. James C. Carter for the Freight Association, Appellees.
Mr. E. J. Phelps for the Freight Association and the New
York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company, appellees.
Mr. Attorney General concluded for appellants.
Mr. W. F. Guthrie filed a brief on behalf of the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company.
M

r. Lloyd W. Bowers filed a brief for the Fremont, Elkhorn
and Missouri Valley Railroad Company and the Sioux City
and Pacific Railroad Company.
MR. JUSTICE PECKEAm,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.

The defendants object to the hearing of this appeal, and
ask that it be dismissed on the ground that the Trans-Missouri
Freight Association has been dissolved by a vote of its members
since the judgment entered in this suit in the court below. A
further ground urged for the dismissal of the appeal is that
the requisite amount (over one thousand dollars) is not in controversy in the suit, and that as an appeal would only lie to
this court in this character of suit under the act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 28 Stat. 826, where that amount is in controversy,
the appeal should be dismissed.
As to the first ground, we think the fact of the dissolution
of the association does not prevent this court from taking cognizance of the appeal and deciding the case upon its merits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The prayer of the bill filed.in this suit asks not only for the
dissolution of the association, but, among other things, that
the defendants should be restrained from continuing in a like
combination, and that they should be enjoined from further
conspiring, agreeing or combining and acting together to
maintain rules and regulations and rates for carrying freight
upon their several lines, etc. The mere dissolution of the
association is not the most-important object of this litigation.
The judgment of the court is sought upon the question of the
legality of the agreement itself for the carrying out of which
the association was formed, and if such agreement be declared
to be illegal, the court is asked not only to dissolve the association named in the bill, but that the defendants should be
enjoined for the future.
The defendants, in bringing to the notice of the court the
fact of the dissolution of the association, take pains to show
that such dissolution had no connection or relation whatever
with the pendency of this suit, and that the association was
not terminated on that account. They do not admit the
illegality of the agreement, nor do they allege their purpose
not to enter into a similar one in the immediate future. On
the contrary, by their answers the defendants claim that the
agreement is a perfectly proper, legitimate and salutary one,
and that it or one like it is necessary to the -prosperity of the
companies. If the injunction were limited to the prevention
of any. action by the defendants under the particular agreement set out, or if the judgment were to be limited to the
dissolution of the association mentioned in the bill, the relief
obtained would be totally inadequate to the necessities of the
occasion, provided an agreement of that nature were determined to be illegal. The injunction should go further, and
enjoin defendants from entering into or acting under any
similar agreement in the future. In other words, the relief
granted should be adequate to the occasion.
As an answer to the fact of the dissolution of the association,
it is shown on the part of the Government that these very
defendants, or most of them, immediately entered into a substantially similar agreement, which was to remain in force for

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

309

Opinion of the Court.

a certain time, and under which the companies acted, and in

regard to which it does not appear that they are not still acting. If the mere dissolution of the association worked an
abatement of the suit as to all the defendants, as is the claim
made on their part, it is plain that they have thus discovered
an effectual means to prevent the judgment of this court
being given upon the question really ifivolved in the case.
The defendants having succeeded in the court below, it would
only be necessary thereafter to dissolve their association and
instantly form another of a similar kind, and the fact of the
dissolution would prevent an appeal to this court or procure
its dismissal if taken. This result does not and ought not to
follow. Although the general rule is that equity does not
interfere simply to restrain a possible future violation of law,
yet where parties have entered into an illegal agreement and
are acting under it, and there is no adequate remedy at law
and the jurisdiction of the court has attached by the filing
of a bill to restrain such or any like action under a similar
agreement, and a trial has been had, and judgment entered,
the appellate jurisdiction of this court is not ousted by a
simple dissolution of the association, effected subsequently to
the entry of judgment in the suit.
Private'parties may settle their controversies at any time,
and rights which a plaintiff may have had at the time of the
commencement of the action may terminate before judgment
is obtained or while the case is on appeal, and in any such
case the court, being informed of the facts, will proceed no
further in the action. Here, however, there has been no extinguishment of the rights (whatever they are) of the public,
the enforcement of which the Government has endeavored to
procure by a judgment of a court under the provisions of the
act of Congress above cited. The defendants cannot foreclose
those rights nor prevent the assertion thereof by the Government as a substantial trustee for the public under the act of
Congress, by any such action as has been taken in this case.
By designating the agreement in question as illegal and the
alleged combination as an unlawful one, we simply mean to
say that such is the character of the agreement as claimed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the Government. That question the Government has the
right to bring before the court and obtain its judgment
thereon. Whether the agreement is of that character is the
question herein to be decided.
We think, therefore, the first ground urged by defendants
for the dismissal of the appeal is untenable.
We have no difficulty either in sustaining the jurisdiction of
this court in regard to the second ground, that of the amount
in controversy in the suit.
The bill need not state, in so many words, that a certain
amount exceeding one thousand dollars is in controversy in
order that this court may have jurisdiction on appeal. The
statutory amount must as a matter of fact be in controversy,
yet that fact may appear by affidavit. after the appeal is
taken to this court, Whiteside v. ilaselton, 110 U. S. 296; Red
River Cattle Co. v. Needham, 137 U. S. 632, or it may be
made to appear in such other manner as shall establish it to
the satisfaction of the court. A stipulation between the parties as to the amount is not controlling, but in the discretion
of the court it may be regarded in a particular case, and with
reference to the other facts appearing in the record as sufficient proof of the amount in controversy to sustain the jurisdiction of this court.
The bill shows here an agreement entered into (as stated in
the agreement itself) for the purpose of maintaining reasonable
rates to be received by each company executing the agreement,
and the stipulation entered into between the parties hereto
shows that the daily freight charges on interstate shipments
collected by the railway companies at points where they
compete with each other were, at the time of the makiig of
the agreement mentioned in the pleadings herein and have
been since, more than one thousand dollars. This agreement
so made, the Government alleges, is illegal as being in restraint
of trade, and was entered into between the companies for the
purpose of enhancing the freight rates. The companies, while
denying the illegality of the agreement or its purpose to be
other than to maintain reasonable rates, yet allege that without some such agreement the competition between them for

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

311

Opinion of the Court.

traffic would be so severe as to cause great losses to each
defendant and possibly ruin the companies represented in the
agreement. Such a result, it is claimed, is avoided by reason
of the agreement. Upon the existence, therefore, of this or
some similar agreement directly depends (as is alleged) the prosperity, if not the life, of each company. It must follow that
an amount much more than a thousand dollars is involved
in the maintenance of the agreement or in the right to maintain it or something like it. These facts, appearing in the
record and the stipulation, show that the right involved is a
right which is of the requisite pecuniary value. A reduction
of the rates by only the fractional part of one per centum
would, in the aggregate, amount to over a thousand dollars in
a very few days. This is sufficient to give the court jurisdiction on appeal. South Carolina v. Seymour, 153 U. S. 353,
357. There is directly involved in this suit the validity and
the life of this agreement, or one similar to it. Out of this
agreement directly springs the ability as well as the right to
maintain these rates, and each company is interested in maintaining the validity of the agreement to the same extent as
all the others. As against the agreement the Government
represents the interest of the public, and thus the parties stand
opposed to each other - the one in favor of dissolving and the
other of maintaining the agreement.
Unlike the case of Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, and the
cases therein cited in the opinion of the court delivered by
Mr. Justice Gray, the defendants here are jointly interested
in the question, and it is not the case of a fund amounting to
more than the requisite sum which is to be paid to different
parties in sums less than the jurisdictional amount.
For the reasons above stated, we think the jurisdictional
fact in regard to each defendant appears plainly and necessarily from the record and the stipulation, and that the duty
is thus laid upon this court to entertain the appeal.
Coming to the merits of the suit, there are two important
questions which demand our examination. They are, first,
whether the above-cited act of Congress (called herein the
Trust Act) applies to and covers common carriers by railroad;

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and, if so, second, does the agreement set forth in the bill
violate any provision of that act?
As to the first question :
The language of the act includes every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in
restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or
with foreign nations. So far as the very terms of the statute
go, they apply to any contract of the nature described. A
contract therefore that is in restraint of trade or commerce is
by the strict language of the act prohibited even though such
contract is entered into between competing common carriers
by railroad, and only for the purposes of thereby affecting
traffic rates for the transportation of persons and property.
If such an agreement restrain trade or commerce, it is prohibited by the statute, unless it can be said that an agreement, no matter what its terms, relating only to transportation
cannot restrain trade or commerce. We see no escape from
the conclusion that if any agreement of such a nature does
restrain it, the agreement is condemned by this act. It cannot be denied that those who are engaged in the transportation of persons or property from one State to another are
engaged in interstate commerce, and it would seem to follow
that if such persons enter into agreements between themselves
in regard to the compensation to be secured from the owners
of the articles transported, such agreement would at least
relate to the business of commerce, and might more or less
restrain it. The point urged on the defendants' part is that
the statute was not really intended to reach that kind of an
agreement relating only to traffic rates entered into by competing common carriers by railroad; that it was intended to
reach only those who were engaged in the manufacture or
sale of articles of commerce, and who by means of trusts, combinations and conspiracies were engaged in affecting the
supply or the price or the place of manufacture of such
articles. The terms of the act do not bear out such construction. Railroad companies are instruments of commerce, and
their business is commerce itself. State Freight Tax case, 15
Wall. 232, 275; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 464.

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

313

Opinion of the Court.

An act which prohibits the making of every contract, etc., in
restraint of trade or commerce among the several States,
would seem to cover by such language a contract between
competing railroads, and relating to traffic rates for.the transportation of articles of commerce between the States, provided such contract by its direct effect produces a restraint
of trade or commerce. What amounts to a reptraint within
the meaning of the act if thus construed need not now be
discussed.
We have held that the Trust Act did not apply to a company engaged in one State in the refining of sugar under the
circumstances detailed in the case of United States v. E. C.
Knight Company, 156 U. S. 1, because the refining of sugar
under those circumstances bore no distinct relation to commerce between the States or with foreign nations. To exclude agreements as to rates by competing railroads for the
transportation of articles of commerce between the States
would leave little for the act to take effect upon.
Nor do we think that because the sixth section does not
forfeit the property of the railroad company when merely
engaged in the transportation of property owned under and
which was the subject of a contract or combination mentioned in the first section, any ground is shown for holding
the rest of the act inapplicable to carriers by. railroad. It
is not perceived why, if the rest of the act were intended
to apply to such a carrier, the sixth section ought necessarily
to have provided for the seizure and condemnation of the
locomotives and cars of the carrier engaged in the transportation between the States of those articles of commerce
owned as stated in that sixth section. There is some justice
and propriety in forfeiting those articles, but we see none in
forfeiting the locomotives or cars of the carrier simply because such carrier was transporting articles as described from
one State to another, even though the carrier knew that they
had been manufactured or sold under a contract or combination in violation of the act. In the case of a simple transportation of such articles the carrier would be guilty of no
violation of any of the provisions of the act. Why, there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

fore, would it follow that the sixth section should provide
for the forfeiture of the property of the carrier if the rest
of the act were intended to apply to it? To subject the
locomotives and cars to forfeiture under such circumstances
might also cause great confusion to the general business of
the carrier and in that way inflict unmerited punishment
upon the inuocent owners of other property in the course
of transportation in the same cars and drawn by the same
locomotives.
If the company itself violates the act, the
penalties are sufficient as provided for therein.
But it is maintained that an agreement like the one in question on the part of the railroad companies is authorized by
the Commerce Act, which is a special statute applicable only
to railroads, and that a construction of the Trust Act (which
is a general act) so as to include within its provisions the case
of railroads, carries with it the repeal by implication of so
much of the Commerce Act as authorized the agreement.
It is added that there is no language in the Trust Act which
is sufficiently plain to indicate a purpose to repeal those provisions of the Commerce Act which permit the agreement;
that both acts may stand, the special or Commerce Act as
relating solely to railroads and their proper regulation and
management, while the later and general act will apply to
all contracts of the nature therein described, entered into
by any one other than competing common carriers by railroad for the purpose of establishing rates of traffic for transportation. On a line with this reasoning it is said that if
Congress had intended to in any manner. affect the railroad
carrier as governed by the Commerce Act, it would have
amended that act directly and in terms, and not have left
it as a question of construction to be determined whether
so important a change in the commerce statute had been accomplished by the passage of the statute relating to trusts.
The first answer to this argument is that, in our opinion,
the Commerce Act does not authorize an agreement of this
nature. It may not in terms prohibit, but it is far from
conferring either directly or by implication any authority
to make it. If the agreement be legal it does not owe its

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

315

Opinion of the Court.

validity to any provision of the Commerce Act, and if illegal it is not made so by that act. The fifth section prohibits
what is termed "pooling," but there is no express provision
in the act prohibiting the maintenance of traffic rates among
competing roads by making such an agreement as this, nor is
there L v provision which permits it. Prior to the passage of
the act the companies had sometimes endeavored to regulate
competition and to maintain rates by pooling arrangements,
and in the act that kind of an arrangement was forbidden.
After its passage other devices were resorted to for the purpose of curbing competition and maintaining rates. The
general nature of a contract like the one before us is not
mentioned in or provided for by the act. The provisions of
that act look to the prevention of discrimination, to the furnishing of equal facilities for the interchange of traffic, to the
rate of compensation for what is termed the long and the
short haul, to the attainment of a continuous passage from
the point of shipment to the point of destination, at a known
and published schedule, and, in the language of counsel for
defendants, " without reference to the location of those points
or the lines over which it is necessary for the traffic to pass,"
to procuring uniformity of rates charged by each company to
its patrons, and to other objects of a similar nature. The act
was not directed to the securing of uniformity of rates to be
charged by competing companies, nor was there any provision
therein as to a maximum oe minimum of rates. Competing
and non-connecting roads are not authorized by this statute
to make an agreement like this one.
As the Commerce Act does not authorize this agreement,
argument against a repeal by implication, of the provisions
of the act which it is alleged grant such authority, becomes
ineffective. There is no repeal in the case, and both statutes
may stand, as neither is inconsistent with the other.
It is plain, also, that an amendment of the Commerce Act
would not be an appropriate method of enacting the legislation contained in the Trust Act, for the reason that the
latter act includes other subjects in addition to the contracts
of or combinations among railroads, and is addressed to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

prohibition of other contracts besides those relating to transportation. The omission, therefore, to amend the Commerce
Act furnishes no reason for claiming that the later statute
Although the
does not apply to railroad transportation.
commerce statute may be described as a general code for
the regulation and government of railroads upon the subjects
treated of therein, it cannot be contended that it furnishes
a complete and perfect set of rules and regulations which
are to govern them in all cases, and that any subsequent act
in relation to them must, when passed, in effect amend or
repeal some provision of that statute. The statute does not
cover all cases concerning transportation by railroad and all
contracts relating thereto. It does not purport to cover such
an extensive field.
The existence of agreements similar to this one may-have
been known to Congress at the time it passed the Commerce
Act, although we are not aware, from the record, that an
agreement of this kind had ever been made and publicly
known prior to the passage of the Commerce Act. Yet if it
had been known to Congress, its omission to prohibit it at
that time, while prohibiting the pooling arrangements, is
no reason for assuming that when passing the Trust Act
it meant to except all contracts of railroad companies in regard to traffic rates from the operation of such act. Congress
for its own reasons, even if aware of the existence of such
agreements, did not see fit when it passed the Commerce Act
to prohibit them with regard to railroad companies alone, and
the act was not an appropriate place for general legislation on
the subject. And at that time, and for several years thereafter, Congress did not think proper to legislate upon the
subject at all. Finally it passed this Trust Act, and in our
opinion no obstacle to its application to contracts relating to
transportation by railroads is to be found in the fact that
the Commerce Act had been passed several years before, in
which the entering into such agreements was not in terms
prohibited.
It is also urged that the debates in Congress show beyond a
doubt that the act as passed does not include railroads. Coun-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

317

Opinion of the Court.

sel for the defendants refer in considerable detail to its history
from the time of its introduction in the Senate to its final
passage. As the act originally passed the Senate the first
section was in substance as it stands at present in the statute.
On its receipt by the House that body proposed an amendment, by which it was in terms made unlawful to eiter into
any contract for the purpose of preventing competition in the,
transportation of persons or property. As thus amended the
bill went back to the Senate, which itself amended the amendment by making the act apply to any such contract as tended
to raise prices for transportation above what was just and
reasonable. This amendment by the Senate of the amendment proposed by the House was disagreed to by that body.
The amendments were then considered by conference committees, and the first conference committee reported to each
house in favor of the amendment of the Senate. This report
was disagreed to and another committee appointed, which
agreed to strike out both amendments and leave the bill as
it stood when it first passed the Senate, and that report was
finally adopted, and the bill thus passed.
Looking at the debates during the various times when the
bill was before the Senate and the House, both on its original
passage by the Senate and upon the report from the conference
committees, it is seen that various views were declared in regard to the legal import of the act. Some of the members of
the House wanted it placed beyond doubt or cavil that contracts in relation to the transportation of persons and property
were included in the bill. Some thought the amendment unnecessary as the language of the act already covered it, and
some refused to vote for the amendment or for the bill if the
amendments were adopted on the ground that it would then
interfere with the Interstate Commerce Act, and tend to create
confusion as to the meaning of each act. Senator Hoar (who
was a member of the first committee of conference from the
Senate), when reporting the result arrived at by the judiciary
committee recommending the adoption of the House amendment, said: "The other clause, of the House amendment is
that contracts or agreements entered into for the purpose of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

preventing competition in the transportation of persons or property from one State or Territory into another shall be deemed
unlawful. That, the committee recommend shall be concurred
in. We suppose that it is already covered by the bill as it
stands; that is, that transportation is as much trade or commerce among the several States as the sale of goods in one
State to be delivered in another, and, therefore, that it is
covered already by the bill as it stands. But there is no
harm in agreeing in an amendment which expressly describes
it, and an objection to the amendment might be construed as
if the Senate did not mean to include it; so we let it stand."
Looking simply at the history of the bill from the time it
was introduced in the Senate until it was finally passed, it
would be impossible to say what were the views of a majority
of the members of each house in relation to the meaning of
the act. It cannot be said that a majority of both houses did
not agree with Senator Hoar in his views as to the construction
to be given to the act as it passed the Senate. All that can
be determined from the debates and reports is that various
members had various views, and we are left to determine the
meaning of this act, as we determine the meaning of other
acts, from the language used therein.
There is, too, a general acquiescence in the doctrine that
debates in Congress are not appropriate sources of information from which to discover the meaning of the language of a
statute passed by that body. United States v. Union Pacific
Railroad Company, 91 U. S. 72, 79; Aldridge v. Williams,
3 How. 9, 24, Taney, Chief Justice; Mitchell v. Gread Works
Milling & Manufacturing Company, 2 Story, 648, 653 ; Queen
v. tertfbrd College, 3 Q. B. D. 693, 707.
The reason is that it is impossible to determine with certainty what construction was put upon an act by the nmembers of a legislative body that passed it by resorting to the
speeches of individual members thereof. Those who did not
speak may not have agreed with those who did; and those
who spoke might differ from each other; the result being
that the only proper way to construe a legislative act is from
the language used in the act, and, upon occasion, by a resort

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

319

Opinion of the Court.

to the history of the times when it was passed. (Cases cited,
sUpra.) If such resort be had, we are still unable to see
that the railroads were not intended to be included in this
legislation.
It is said that Congress had very different matters in view
and very different objects to accomplish in the passage of the
act in question; that a number of combinations'in the form of
trusts and conspiracies in restraint of trade were to be found
throughout the country, and that it was impossible for the
state governments to successfully cope with them because of
their commercial character and of their business extension
through the d iferent States of the Union. Among these
trusts it was said in Congress were the Beef Trust, the Standard Oil Trust, the Steel Trust, the Barbed Fence Wire Trust,
the Sugar. Trust, the Cordage Trust, the Cotton Seed Oil
Trust, the Whiskey Trust and many others, and these trusts it
was stated had assumed an importance and had acquired a
power which were dangerous to the whole country, and that
their existence was directly antagonistic to its peace and prosperity. To combinations and conspiracies of this kind it is
contended that the act in question was directed, and not to
the combinations of competing railroads to keep up their prices
to a reasonable sum for the transportation of persons and
property. It is true that many and various trusts were in
existence at the time of the passage of the act, and it was
probably sought to cover them by the provisions of the act.
Many of them had rendered themselves offensive by the
manner in which they exercised the great power that combined capital gave them. But a further investigation of "the
history of the times" shows also that those trusts were not
the only associations controlling a great combination of capital which bad caused complaint at the manner in which their
business was conducted. There were many and loud complaints from some portions of the public regarding the railroads and the prices they were charging for the service they
rendered, and it was alleged that the prices for the transportation of persons and articles of commerce were unduly and
improperly enhanced by combinations among the different

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of tht, Court.

roads. Whether these complaints were well or ill founded we
do not presume at this time and under these circumstances to
determine or to discuss. It is simply for the purpose of
answering the statement that it was only to trusts of the
nature above set forth that this legislation was directed, that
the subject of the opinions of the people in regard to the
actions of the railroad companies in this particular is referred
to. A reference to this history of the times does not, as we
think, furnish us with any strong reason for believing that it
was only trusts that were in the minds of the members of
Congress, and that railroads and their manner of doing business were wholly excluded therefrom.
Our attention is also called to one of the rules for the construction of statutes which has been approved by this court;
that while it is the duty of courts to ascertain the meaning of
the legislature from the words used ih the statute and the
subject-matter to which it relates, there is an equal duty to
restrict the meaning of general words, whenever it is found
necessary to do so in order to carry out the legislative intent.
Brewer v. Blougher, 14 Pet. 178, 198; Petri v. Commercial
Bank of Chicago, 142 U. S. 644, 650; Mc~ee v. United States,
164 U. S. 287. It is therefore urged that if, by a strict construction of the language of this statute it may be made to
include railroads, yet it is evident from other considerations
now to be mentioned that the real meaning of the legislature
would not include them, and they must for that reason be
excluded. It is said that this meaning is plainly to be inferred,
because of fundamental differences both in an economic way
and before the law between trade and manufacture on the one
hand, and railroad transportation on the other. Among these
differences are the public character of railroad business, and
as a result the peculiar power of control and regulation possessed by the State over railroad companies. The trader or
manufacturer, on the other hand, carries on an entirely private business, and can sell to whom he pleases; he may
charge different prices for the same article to different
individuals; he may charge as much as he can get for the
article in which he deals, whether the price be reasonable or

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

321

Opinion of the Court.

unreasonable; he may make such discrimination in his business as he chooses, and he may cease to do any business whenever his choice lies in that direction ; while, on the contrary,
a railroad company must transport all persons and property
that come to it, and it must do so at the same price for the
same service, and the price must be reasonable, and it cannot
at its will discontinue its business. It is also urged that there
are evils arising from unrestricted competition in regard to
railroads which do not exist in regard to any other kind of
property, that it is so admitted by the latest and best writers
on the subject, and that practical experience of the results of
unrestricted competition among railroads tends directly to the
same view; that the difference between railroad property on
the one hand, and all other kinds of property on the other
hand, is so plain that entirely different economic results follow
from unrestricted competition among railroads from those
which obtain in regard to all other kinds of business. It is
also said that the contemporaneous industrial history of the
country, the legal situation in regard to railroad properties at
the time of the enactment of this statute, its legislative history,
the ancient and constantly maintained different legal effect
and policy regarding railway transportation and ordinary
trade and manufacture, together with a just regard for interests of such enormous magnitude as are represented by the
railroads of the country, all tend to show that Congress in
passing the Anti-Trust Act never could have contemplated
the inclusion of railroads within its provisions. It is, therefore, claimed to be the duty of the court, in carrying out the
rule of statutory construction, above stated, to restrict the
meaning of these general words of the statute which would
include railroads, because, from the considerations above mentioned, it is plain that Congress never intended that railroads
should be included.
Many of the foregoing assertions may be well founded,
while at the same time the correctness of the conclusions
sought to be drawn therefrom need not be conceded. The
points of difference between the railroad and other corporations are many and great. It cannot be disputed that a railroad
VOL. cLxvi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

is a public corporation, and its business pertains to and greatly
affects the public, and that it is of a public nature. The company may not charge unreasonable prices for transportation,
nor can it make unjust discriminations, nor select its patrons,
nor go out of business when it chooses, while a mere trading
or manufacturing company may do all these things. But
the very fact of the public character of a railroad would itself
seem to call for special care by the legislature in regard to
its conduct, so that its business should be carried on with as
much reference to the proper and fair interests of the public
as possible. While the points of difference just mentioned
and others do exist between the two classes of corporations,
it must be remembered they have also some points of
resemblance. Trading, manufacturing and railroad corporations are all engaged in the transaction of business with regard to articles of trade and commerce, each in its special
sphere, either in manufacturing or trading in commodities
or in their transportation by rail. A contract among those
engaged in the latter business by which the prices for the
transportation of commodities traded in or manufactured by
the others is greatly enhanced from what it otherwise would
be if free competition were the rule, affects and to a certain
extent restricts trade and commerce, and affects the price of
the commodity. Of this there can be no question. Manufacturing or trading companies may also affect prices by joining together in forming a trust or.other combination, and by
making agreements in restraint of trade and commerce, which
when carried out affect the interests of the public. Why
should not a railroad company be included in general legislation aimed at the prevention of that kind of agreement made
in restraint of trade, which may exist in all companies, which
is substantially of the same nature wherever found, and which
tends very much towards the same results, whether put in
practice by a trading and manufacturing or by a railroad
company? It is true the results of trusts, or combinations
of that nature, may be different in different kinds of corporations, and yet they all have an essential similarity, and have
been induced by motives of individual or corporate aggran-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

dizement as against the public interest. In business or trading combinations they may even temporarily, or perhaps
permanently, reduce the price of the article traded in or
manufactured, by reducing the expense inseparable from the
running of many different companies for the same purpose.
Trade or commerce under those circumstances may nevertheless be badly and unfortunately restrained by driving out of
business the small dealers and worthy men whose lives have
been spent therein, and who might be unable to readjust
themselves to their altered surroundings. Mere reduction in
the price of the commodity dealt in might be dearly paid
for by the ruin of such a class, and the absorption of control
over one commodity by an all-powerful combination of capital.
In any great and extended change in the manner or method
of doing business it seems to be an inevitable necessity that
distress and, perhaps, ruin shall be its accompaniment in regard to some of those who were engaged in the old methods.
A change from stage coaches and canal boats to railroads
threw at once a large number of men out of employment;
changes from hand labor to that of machinery, and from
operating machinery by hand to the application of steam for
such purpose, leave behind them for the time a number of
men who must seek other avenues of livelihood. These are
misfortunes which seem to be the necessary accompaniment
of all great industrial changes. It takes time to effect a readjustment of industrial life so that those who are thrown
out of their old employment, by reason of such changes as
we' have spoken of, may find opportunities for labor in other
departments than those to which they have been accustomed.
It is a misfortune, but yet in such cases it seems to be the
inevitable accompaniment of change and improvement.
It is wholly different, however, when such changes are
effected by combinations of capital, whose purpose in combining is to control the production or manufacture of any
particular article in the market, and by such control dictate
the price at which the article shall be sold, the effect being
to drive out of business all the small dealers in the commodity
and to render the public subject to the decision of the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

bination as to what price shall be paid for the article. In
this light it is not material that the price of an article may
be lowered. It is in the power of the combination to raise
it, and the result in any event is unfortunate for the country
by depriving it of the services of a large number of small but
independent dealers who were familiar with the business and
who had spent their lives in it, and who supported themselves
and their families from the small profits realized therein.
Whether they be able to find other avenues to earn their
livelihood is not so material, because it is not for the real
prosperity of any country that such changes should occur
which result in transferring an independent business man,
the head of his establishment, small though it might be, into
a mere servant or agent of a corporation for selling the commodities which he once manufactured or dealt in, having no
voice in shaping the business policy of the company and
bound to obey orders issued by others. Nor is it for the
substantial interests of the country that any one commodity
should be within the sole power and subject to the sole will
of one powerful combination of capital. Congress has, so far
as its jurisdiction extends, prohibited all contracts or combinations in the form of trusts entered into for the purpose
of restraining trade and commerce. The results naturally
flowing from a contract or combination in restraint of trade
or commerce, when entered into by a manufacturing or trading company such as above stated, while differing somewhat
from those which may follow a contract to keep up transportation rates by railroads, are nevertheless of the same
nature and kind, and the contracts themselves do not so far
differ in their nature that they may not all be treated alike
and be condemned in common. It is entirely appropriate
generally to subject corporations or persons engaged in trading or manufacturing to different rules from those applicable
to railroads in their transportation business; but when the
evil to be remedied is similar in both kinds of corporations,
such as contracts which are unquestionably in restraint of
trade, we see no reason why similar rules should not be promulgated in regard to both, and both be covered in the same

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

325

Opinion of the Court.

statute by general language sufficiently broad to include them
both. We see nothing either in contemporaneous history, in
the legal situation at the time of the passage of the statute,
in its legislative history, or in any general difference in the
nature or kind of these trading or manufacturing companies
from railroad companies, which would lead us to the conclusion that it cannot be supposed the legislature in prohibiting
the making of contracts in restraint of trade intended to include railroads within the purview of that act.
Neither is the statute, in our judgment, so uncertain in its
meaning, or its language so vague, that it ought not to be held
applicable to railroads. It prohibits contracts, combinations,
etc., in restraint of trade or commerce. Transporting commodities is ,commerce, and if from one State to or through
another it is interstate commerce. To be reached by the
Federal statute it must be commerce among the several
States or with foreign nations. When the act prohibits contracts in restraint of trade or commerce, the plain meaning
of the language used includes contracts which relate to either
or both subjects. Both trade and commerce are included so
long as each relates to that which is interstate or foreign.
Transportation of commodities among the several States or
with foreign nations falls within the description of the words
of the statute with regard to that subject, and there is also
included in that language that kind of trade in commodities
among the States or with foreign nations which is not confined to their mere transportation. It includes their purchase
and sale. Precisely at what point in the course of the trade
in or manufacture of commodities the statute may have effect
upon them, or upon contracts relating to them, may be somewhat difficult to determine, but interstate transportation
CKnight
presents no difficulties. In United States v. E.
Co. 156 U. S. 1, heretofore cited, it was in substance held,
reiterating the language of Mr. Justice Lamar in KRidd v.
Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, that the intent to manufacture or
export a manufactured article to foreign nations or to send
it to another State did not determine the time when the
article or product passed from the control of the State and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

belonged to commerce. The difficulty in determining that
question, however, is no reason for denying effect to language
which, by its terms, plainly includes the transportation of
commodities among the several States or with foreign nations, and which may also be the subject of contracts or
combinations in restraint of such commerce. The difficulty
of the subject, so far as the trade in or the manufacture of
commodities is concerned, arises from the limited control
which Congress has over the matter of trade or manufacture.
It was said by Mr. Justice Lamar in Kidd v. Pearson (supra):
"If it be held that the term" (commerce) "includes the regulation of all such manufactures as are intended to be the subject of commercial transactions in the future, it is impossible
to deny that it would also include the productive industries
that contemplate the same thing. The result would be that
Congress would be invested, to the exclusion of the States,
with the power to regulate, not only manufactures, but also
agriculture, horticulture, stock raising, domestic fisheries and
mining -in short, every branch of human industry."
In the Knight Company case (sapra)it was said that this
statute applied to monopolies in restraint of interstate or international trade or commerce, and not to monopolies in the manufacture even of a necessary of life. It is readily seen from
these cases that if the act do not apply to the transportation
of commodities by railroads from one State to another or to
foreign nations, its application is so greatly limited that the
whole act might as well be held inoperative.
Still another ground for holding the act inapplicable is
urged, and that is that the language covers only contracts or
combinations like trusts or those which, while not exactly
trusts, are otherwise of the same form or nature. This is
clearly not so.
While the statute prohibits all combinations in the form of
trusts or otherwise, the limitation is not confined to that form
alone. All combinations which are in restraint of trade or
commerce are prohibited, whether in the form of trusts or in
any other form whatever.
We think, after a careful examination, that the statute

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

327

Opinion of the Court.

covers, and was intended to cover, common carriers by railroad.
Second. The next question to be discussed is as to what is
the true construction of the statute, assuming that it applies
to common carriers by railroad. What is the meaning of the
language as used in the statute, that "every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in
restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or
with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal "? Is it
confined to a contract or combination which is only in unreasonable restraint of trade or commerce, or does it include
what the language of the act plainly and in terms covers, all
contracts of that nature ?
We are asked to regard the title of this act as indicative of
its purpose to include only those contracts which were unlawful at common law, but which require the sanction of a
Federal statute in order to be dealt with in a Federal court.
It is said that when terms which are known to the common
law are used in a Federal statute those terms are to be given
the same meaning that they received at common law, and
that when the language of the title is "to protect trade and
commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies," it
means those restraints and monopolies which the common law
regarded as unlawful, and which were to be prohibited by
the Federal statute. We are of opinion that the language
used in the title refers to and includes and was intended to
in*clude those restraints and monopolies which are made unlawful in the body of the statute. It is to the statute itself
that resort must be had to learn the meaning thereof, though
a resort to the title here creates no doubt about the meaning of
and does not alter the plain language contained in its text.
It is now with much amplification of argument urged that
the statute, in declaring illegal every combination in the form
of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or
commerce, does not mean what the language used therein
plainly imports, but that it only means to declare illegal any
such contract which is in unreasonable restraint of trade,
while leaving all others unaffected by the provisions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Act; that the common law meaning of the term "contract
in restraint of trade" includes only such contracts as are in
unreasonable restraint of trade, and when that term is used in
the Federal statute it is not intended to include all contracts
in restraint of trade, but only those which are in unreasonable
restraint thereof.
The term is not of such limited signification. Contracts in
restraint of trade have been known and spoken of for hundreds
of years both in England and in this country, and the term
includes all kinds of those contracts which in fact restrain or
may restrain trade. Some of such contracts have been held
void and unenforceable in the courts by reason of their
restraint being unreasonable, while others have been held
valid because they were not-of that nature. A contract may
be in restraint of trade and still be valid at common law.
Although valid, it is nevertheless a contract in restraint of
trade, and would be so described either at common law or
elsewhere.
By the simple use of the term "contract in
restraint of trade," all contracts of that nature, whether valid
or otherwise, would be included, and not alone that kind of
contract which -was invalid and unenforceable as being in
unreasonable restraint of trade. When, therefore, the body
of an act pronounces as illegal every contract or combination
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States,
etc., the plain and ordinary meaning of such language is not
limited to that kind of contract alone which is in unreasonable restraint of trade, but all contracts are included in such
language, and no exception or limitation can be added without placing in the act that which has been omitted by
Congress.
Proceeding, however, upon the theory that the statute did
not mean what its plain language imported, and that it intended in its prohibition to denounce as illegal only those
contracts which were in unreasonable restraint of trade, the
courts below have made an exhaustive investigation as to the
general rules which guide courts in declaring contracts to be
void as being in restraint of trade, and therefore against the
public policy of the country. In the course of their discussion

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

329

Opinion of the Court.

of that subject they have shown that there has been a gradual though great alteration in the extent of the liberty granted
to the vendor of property in agreeing, as part consideration
for his sale, not to enter into the same kind of business for a
certain time or within a certain territory. So long as the sale
was the bonafide consideration for the promise and was not
made a mere excuse for an evasion of the rule itself, the later
authorities, both in England and in this country, exhibit a
strong tendency towards enabling the parties to make such a
contract in relation to the sale of property, including an agreement not to enter into the same kind of business, as they may
think proper, and this with the view to granting to a vendor
the freest opportunity to obtain the largest consideration for
the sale of that which is his own. A contract which is the
mere accompaniment of the sale of property, and thus entered
into for the purpose of enhancing the price at which the vendor sells it, which in effect is collateral to such sale, and where
the main purpose of the whole contract is accomplished by
such sale, might not be included, within the letter or spirit of
the statute in question. But we cannot see how the statute can
be limited, as it has been by the courts below, without reading
into its text an exception which alters the natural meaning of
the language used, and that, too, upon a most material point,
and where no sufficient reason is shown for believing that such
alteration would make the statute more in accord with the
intent of the law-making body that enacted it.
The great stress of the argument for the defendants on this
branch of the case has been to show if possible, some reason
in the attendant circumstances, or some fact existing in the
nature of railroad property and business upon which to found
the claim, that although by the language of the statute agreements or combinations in restraint of trade or commerce are
included, the statute really means to declare illegal only those
contracts, etc., which are in unreasonable restraint of trade.
In order to do this the defendants call attention to many facts
which they have already referred to in their argument, upon
the point that railroads were not included at all in the statute.
They again draw attention to the fact of the peculiar nature of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

railroad property. When a railroad is once built, it is said,
it must be kept in operation; it must transport property, when
necessary in order to keep its business, at the smallest price
and for the narrowest profit, or even for no profit, provided
running expenses can be paid, rather than not to do the work;
that railroad property cannot be altered for use for any other
purpose, at least without such loss as may fairly be called destructive; that competition while, perhaps, right and proper
in other business, simply leads in railroad business to financial
ruin and insolvency, and to the operation of the road by receivers in the interest of its creditors instead of in that of its
owners and the public; that a contest between a receiver of
an insolvent corporation and one which is still solvent tends
to ruin the latter company, while being of no benefit to the
former; that a receiver is only bound to pay operating expenses, so he can compete with the solvent company and
oblige it to come down to prices incompatible with any profit
for the work done, and until ruin overtakes it to the destruction of innocent stockholders and the impairment of the public
interests.
To the question why competition should necessarily be conducted to such an extent as to result in this relentless and
continued war, to eventuate only in the financial ruin of one
or all Qf the companies indulging in it, the answer is made
that if competing railroad companies be left subject to the
sway of free and unrestricted competition the results above
foreshadowed necessarily happen from the nature of the case;
that competition being the rule, each company will seek business to the extent of its power, and will underbid its rival in
order to get the business, and such underbidding will act and
react upon each company until the prices are so reduced as to
make it impossible to prosper or live under them; that it is
too much to ask of hunan nature for one company to insist
upon charges sufficiently high to afford a reasonable compensation, and while doing so to see its patrons leave for rival roads
who are obtaining its business by offering less rates for doing
it than can be afforded and a fair profit obtained therefrom.
Sooner than experience ruin from mere inanition, efforts will

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

331

Opinion of the Court.

be made in the direction of meeting the underbidding of its
rival until both shall end in ruin. The only refuge, it is said,
from this wretched end lies in the power of competing roads
agreeing among themselves to keep up prices for transportation to such sums as shall be reasonable in themselves, so that
companies may be allowed to save themselves from themselves,
and to agree not to attack each other, but to keep up reasonable and living rates for the services performed. It is said
that as railroads have a right to charge reasonable rates it
must follow that a contract among themselves to keep up
their charges to that extent is valid. Viewed in the light of
all these facts it is broadly and confidently asserted that it is
impossible to believe that Congress or any other intelligent
and honest legislative body could ever have intended to include all contracts or combinations in restraint of trade, and
as a consequence thereof to prohibit competing railways from
agreeing among themselves to keep up prices for transportation to such a rate as should be fair and reasonable.
These arguments it must be confessed bear with much force
upon the policy of an act which should prevent a general
agreement upon the question of rates among competing railroad companies to the extent simply of maintaining those
rates which were reasonable and fair.
There is another side to this question, however, and it may
not be amiss to refer to one or two facts which tend to somewhat modify and alter the light in which the subject should
be regarded. If only that kind of contract which is in unreasonable restraint of trade be within the meaning of the statute,
and declared therein to be illegal, it is at once apparent that
the subject of what is a reasonable rate is attended with great
uncertainty. What is a proper standard by which to judge
the fact of reasonable rates? Must the rate be so high as to
enable the return, for the whole business done to amount to a
sum sufficient to afford the shareholder a fair and reasonable
profit upon his investment? If so, what is a fair and reasonable profit? That depends sometimes upon the risk incurred,
and the rate itself differs in different localities: which is the
one to which reference is to be made as the standard? Or is

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the reasonableness of the profit to be limited to a fair return
upon the capital that would have been sufficient to build and
equip the road, if honestly expended? Or is still another
standard to be created, and the reasonableness of the charges
tried by the cost of the carriage of the article and a reasonable
profit allowed on that? And in such case would contribution
to a sinking fund to make repairs upon the roadbed and
renewal of cars, etc., be assumed as a proper item? Or is the
reasonableness of the charge to be tested by reference to the
charges for the transportation of the same kind of property
made by other roads similarly situated? If the latter, a combination among such roads as to rates would, of course, furnish
no means of answering the question. It is quite apparent,
therefore, that it is exceedingly difficult to formulate even the
terms of the rule itself which should govern in the matter of
determining what would be reasonable rates for transportation. While even after the standard should be determined
there is such an infinite variety of facts entering into the
question of what is a reasonable rate, no matter what standard is adopted, that any individual shipper would in most
cases be apt to abandon the effort to show the unreasonable
character of a charge, sooner than hazard the great expense
in time and money necessary to prove the fact, and at the
same time incur the ill-will of the road itself in all his future
dealings with it. To say, therefore, that the act excludes
agreements which are not in unreasonable restraint of trade,
and which tend simply to keep up reasonable rates for transportation, is substantially to leave the question of reasonableness to the companies themselves.
It must also be remembered that railways are public corporations organized for public purposes, granted valuable
franchises and privileges, among which the right to take the
private property of the citizen in invitum is not the least,
Cherokee. Nation v. Southern Kansas Railway Co., 135 U. S.
641, 657 ; that many of them are the donees of large tracts of
public lands and of gifts of money by municipal corporations,
and that they all primarily owe duties to the public of a
higher nature .even than that of earning large dividends for

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

333

Opinion of the Court.

their shareholders. The business which the railroads do is of
a public nature, closely affecting almost all classes in the community - the farmer, the artisan, the manufacturer and the
trader. It is of such a public nature that it may well be
doubted, to say the least, whether any contract which. imposes
any restraint upon its business would not be prejudicial to the
public interest.
We recognize the argument upon the part of the defendants
that restraint upon the business of railroads will not be prejudicial to the public interest so long as such restraint provides
for reasonable rates for transportation and prevents the deadly
competition so liable to result in the ruin of the roads and to
thereby impair their usefulness to the public, and in that way
to prejudice the public interest. But it must be remembered
that these results are by no means admitted with unanimity ;
on the contrary,, they are earnestly and warmly denied on the
part of the public and by those who assume to defend its
interests both in and out of Congress. Competition, they
urge, is a necessity for the purpose of securing in the end just
and proper rates.
It was said in Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Company, 130 U. S.
396, at page 408, by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, as follows:
"The supplying of illuminating gas is a business of a public
nature to meet a public necessity. It is not a business like
that of an ordinary corporation engaged in the manufacture
of articles that may be furnished by individual effort. New
Orleans Gas Co. v. .LouisianaLight Co., 115 U. S. 650 ; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683; Shepard v.
.Milwaukee Gas Co., 6 Wisconsin, 539; Chicago Gas Light &
Coke Co. v. People's Gas Light & Coke Co., 121 Illinois, 530;
St. Louis v. St. Louis Gas Light Co., 70 Missouri, 69. Hence,
while it is justly urged that those rules which say that a given
contract is against public policy, should not be arbitrarily
extended so as to interfere with the freedom of contract,
Printing &c. Registering Co. v. Sampson, L. R. 19 Eq. 462,
yet in the instance of business of such a character that it presumably cannot be restrained to any extent whatever without
prejudice to the public interest, courts decline to enforce or

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

sustain contracts imposing such restraint, however partial,
because in contravention of public policy. This subject is
much considered, and the authorities cited in West Virginia
TransportationCo. v. Ohio River Pipe -Line Co., 22 West Va.
600; Chicago &c. Gas 'Co. v. People's Gas Co., 121 Illinois,
530; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. American Union Tele
graph Co., 65 Georgia, 160."
It is true that in the Gibbs case there was a special statute
which prohibited the company from entering into any consolidation, combination or contract with any other gas company
whatever, and it was provided that any attempt to do so or to
make such combination or contract should be utterly null and
void. The above extract from the opinion of the court is
made for the purpose of showing the difference which exists
between a private and a public corporation -that kind of a
public corporation which, while doing business for remuneration, is yet so connected in interest with the public as to give
a public character to its business - and it is seen that while,
in the absence of a statute prohibiting them, contracts of
private individuals or corporations touching upon restraints
in trade must be unreasonable in their nature to be held void,
different considerations obtain in the case of public corporations like those of railroads where it well may be that any
restraint upon a business of that character as affecting its
rates of transportation must thereby be prejudicial to ithe
public interests.
The plaintiffs are, however, under no obligation in order
to maintain this action to show that by the common law all
agreements among competing railroad companies to keep up
rates to such as are reasonable were void as in restraint of
trade or commerce. There are many cases which look in
that direction if they do not precisely decide that point.
Some of them are referred to in the opinion in the Baltimore Gas Company case, above cited. The case of the Mogul
Steamship Company v. McGregor,21 Q. B. D. 544; 23 Q. B. D.
598; 1892, App. Cas. 25, has been cited by the courts below as holding in principle that contracts of this nature are
valid at common law. The agreement held valid there was

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

335

Opinion of the Court.

an agreement for lowering rates of transportation among the
parties thereto, and it was entered into for the purpose of
driving. out of trade rival steamships in order that thereafter
the rates might be advanced. The English courts held that
the agreement was not a conspiracy, and that it was valid,
although the result aimed at was to drive a rival out of the
field, because so long as the injury to such rival was not the
sole reason for the agreement, but self-interest the predominating motive, there was nothing wrong in law with an agreement of that kind. But assuming that agreements of this
nature are not void at common law and that the various cases
cited by the learned courts below show it, the answer to the

statement of their validity now is to be found in the terms of
the statute under consideration. The provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act relating to reasonable rates, discriminations, etc., do not authorize such an agreement as this, nor do
they authorize any other agreements which would be inconsistent with the provisions of this act.
The general reasons for holding agreements of this nature
to be invalid even at common law, on the part of railroad
companies are quite strong, if not entirely conclusive.
Considering the public character of such corporations, the
privileges and franchises which they have received from the

public in order that they might transact business, and bearing
in mind how closely and immediately the question of rates
for transportation affects the whole public, it may be urged
that Congress had in mind all the difficulties which we have

before suggested of proving the unreasonableness of the rate,
and might, in consideration of all the circumstances, have
deliberately decided to prohibit all agreements and combinations in restraint of trade or commerce, regardless of the question whether such agreements were reasonable or the reverse.

It is true that, as to a majority of those living along its line,
each railroad is a monopoly. Upon the subject now under
consideration it is well said by Judge Oliver P. Shiras, United
States District Judge, Northern District of Iowa, in his very

able dissenting opinion in this case in the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"As to the majority of the community living along its line,
each railway company has a monopoly of the business demanding transportation as one of its elements. By reason of
this fact the action of this corporation in establishing the rates
to be charged largely influences the net profit coming to the
farmer, the manufacturer and the merchant, from the sale of
the products of the farm, the workshop and manufactory, and
of the merchandise purchased and resold, and also largely
influences the price to be paid by every one who consumes any
of the property transported over the line of railway. There
is no other line of business carried on in our midst which is
so intimately connected with the public as that conducted by
A railway corporation
.
.
the railways of the country.
engaged in the transportation of the persons and property of
the community is always carrying on a public business which
at all times directly affects the public welfare. All contracts
or combinations entered into between railway corporations
intended to regulate the rates to be charged the public for
the service rendered, must of necessity affect the public
interests. ' By reason of this marked distinction existing between enterprises inherently public in their character and
those of a private nature, and further by reason of the difference between private persons and corporations'engaged in
private. pursuits, who owe no direct or primary duty to the
public and public corporations cread for the express purpose
of carrying on public enterprises, and which, in consideration
of the public powers exercised in their behalf, are under obligation to carry on the work intrusted to their management primarily in the interest and for the benefit of. the community,
it seems clear to me that the same test is not applicable to
both classes of business and corporations in determining the
validity of contracts and combinations entered into by those
engaged therein. . . . In the opinion of the court are
found citations from the reports of the Interstate Commerce
Commission in which are depicted the evils that are occasioned
to the railway companies and the public by warfares over rate
charges, and the advantages that are gained in many directions
by proper conference and concert of action among the com-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

337

Opinion of the Court.

peting lines. It may be entirely true that as we proceed in
the development of the policy of public control over railway
traffic, methods will be devised and put in operation by legislative enactment whereby railway companies and the public
may be protected against the evils arising from unrestricted
competition and from rate wars which unsettle the business of
the community, but I fail to perceive the force of the argument
that because railway companies through their own action cause
evils to themselves and the public by sudden changes or reductions in tariff rates they must be permitted to deprive
the community of the benefit of competition in securing
reasonable rates for the transportation of the products of the
country. Competition, free and unrestricted, is the general
rule which governs all the ordinary business pursuits and
transactions of life. Evils, as well as benefits, result therefrom. In the fierce heat of competition the stronger cornpetitor may crush out the weaker; fluctuations in prices may
be caused that result in wreck and ,disaster; yet, balancing
the benefits as against the evils, the law of competition remains as a controlling element in the business world. That
free and unrestricted competition in the matter of railroad
charges may be productive of evils does not militate against
the fact that such is the law now governing the subject. No
law can be enacted nor system be devised for the control of
human affairs that in its enforcement does not produce some
evil results, no matter how beneficial its general purpose may
be. There are benefits and there are evils which result from
the operation of the law of free competition between railway
companies. The time may come when the companies will be
relieved from the operation of this law, but they cannot, by
combination and agreements among themselves, bring about
this change. The fact that the provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act may have changed in many respects the conduct of the companies in the carrying on of the public business
they are engaged in does not show that it was the intent of
Congress, in the enactment of that statute, to clothe railway
companies with the right to combine together for the purpose
of avoiding the effects of competition on the subject of rates."
VOL. CLXVI-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The whole opinion is a remarkably strong presentation of
the views of the learned judge who wrote it.
Still, again, it is answered that the effects of free competition among railroad companies, as described by the counsel
for the companies themselves in the course of their argument,
are greatly exaggerated. According to that argument, the
moment an agreement of this nature is prohibited the railroads commence to cut their rates, and they cease only with
their utter financial ruin, leaving, perhaps, one to raise rates
indefinitely when its rivals have been driven away. It is said
that this is a most overdrawn statement, and that while absolutely free competition may have in some instances and for a
time resulted in injury to some of the railroads, it is not at
all clear that the general result has been other than beneficial
to the whole public, and not in the long run detrimental to
the prosperity of the roads. It is matter of common knowledge that agreements as to rates have been continually made
of late years, and that complaints of each company in regard
to the violation of such agreements by its rivals have been
frequent and persistent. Rate wars go on notwithstanding
any agreement to the contrary, and the struggle for business
among competing roads keeps on, and in the nature of things
will keep on, any alleged agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, and it is only by the exercise of good sense and by
the presence of a common interest that railroads, without
entering into any affirmative agreement in regard thereto,
will keep within the limit of exacting a fair and reasonable
return for services rendered. These agreements have never
been found really effectual for any extended period.
The Interstate Commerce Commission, from whose reports
quotations have been quite freely made by counsel for the
purpose of proving the views of its learned members in regard to this subject, has never distinctly stated that agreements among competing railroads to maintain prices are to
be commended, or that the general effect is to be regarded
as beneficial. They have stated in their fourth annual report
that competition may degenerate into rate wars, and that
such -wars are as unsettling to the business of the country

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

339

Opinion of the Court.

as they are mischievous to the carriers, and that the spirit
of existing law is against them. They then add: "Agreements between railroad companies which from time to time
they have entered into with a view to prevent such occurrences have never been found effectual, and for the very sufficient reason, that the mental reservations in forming them
have been quite as numerous and more influential than the
written stipulations." It would seem true, therefore, that
there is no guaranty of financial health to be found in entering into agreements for the maintenance of rates, nor is financial ruin or insolvency the necessary result of their absence.
The claim that the company has the right to charge reasonable rates, and that, therefore, it has the right to enter into
a combination with competing roads to maintain such rates,
cannot be admitted. The conclusion does not follow from an
admission of the premise. What one company may do in the
way of charging reasonable rates is radically different from
entering into an agreement with other and competing roads to
keep up the rates to that point. If there be any competition
the extent of the charge for the service will be seriously affected
by that fact. Competition will itself bring charges down to
what may be reasonable, while in the case of an agreement to
keep prices up, competition is allowed no play; it is shut out,
and the rate is practically fixed by the companies themselves
by virtue of the agreement, so long as they abide by it.
As a result of this review of the situation, we find two very
widely divergent views of the effects which might be expected
to result from declaring illegal all contracts in restraint of
trade, etc.; one side predicting financial disaster and ruin to
competing railroads, including thereby the ruin of shareholders, the destruction of immensely valuable properties, and
the consequent prejudice to the public interest ; while on the
other side predictions equally earnest are made that no such
mournful results will follow, and it is urged that there is a
necessity, in order that the public interest may be fairly and
justly protected, to allow free and open competition among
railroads upon the subject of the rates for the transportation
of persons and property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court..

The arguments which have been addressed to us against
the inclusion of all contracts in restraint of trade, as provided
for by the language of the act, have been based upon the
alleged presumption that Congress, notwithstanding the language of the act, could not have intended to embrace all contracts, but only such contracts as were in unreasonable restraint of trade. Under these circumstances we are, therefore,
asked to hold that the act of Congress excepts contracts which
are not in unreasonable restraint of trade, and which only
keep rates up to a reasonable price, notwithstanding the
language of the act makes no such exception. In other
words, we are asked to read into the act by way of judicial
legislation an exception that is not placed there by the lawmaking branch of the Government, and this is to be done
upon the theory that the impolicy of such legislation is so
clear that it cannot be supposed Congress intended the natural
import of the language it used. This we cannot and ought
not to do. That impolicy is not so clear, nor are the reasons
for the exception so potent as to permit us to interpolate an
exception into the language of the act, and to thus materially
alter its meaning and effect. It may be that the policy
.evidenced by the passage of the act itself will, if carried out,
result in disaster to the roads and in a failure to secure the
advantages sought from such legislation. Whether that will
be the result or not we do not know and cannot predict.
These considerations are, however, not for us. If the act
ought to read as contended for by defendants, Congress is the
body to amend it and not this court, by a process of judicial
legislation wholly unjustifiable. Large numbers do not agree
that the view taken by defendants is sound or true in substance, and Congress mfay and very probably did share in that
belief in passing the act. The public policy of the Government is-to be found in its statutes, and when they have not
directly spoken, then in the decisions of the courts and the
constant practice of the government officials; but when the
lawmaking power speaks upon a particular subject, over which
it has constitutional power to legislate, public policy in such a
case is what the statute enacts. If the law prohibit any con-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

341

Opinion of the Court.

tract or combination in restraint of trade or commerce, a
contract or combination made in violation of such law is
void, whatever may have been theretofore decided by the
courts to have been the public policy of the country on that
subject.
The conclusion which we have drawn from the examination
above made into the question before us is that the Anti-Trust
Act applies to railroads, and that it renders illegal all agreements which are in restraint of trade or commerce as we have
above defined that expression, and the question then arises
whether the agreement before us is of that nature.
Although the case is- heard on bill and answer, thus making it necessary to assume the truth of the allegations in the
answer which are well pleaded, yet the legal effect of the
agreement itself cannot be altered by the answer, nor can its
violation of law be made valid by allegations of good intention
or of desire to simply maintain reasonable rates; nor can the
plaintiffs' allegations as to the intent with which the agreement
was entered into be regarded, as such intent is denied on the
part of the defendants; and if the intent alleged in the bill
were a necessary fact to be proved in order to maintain the
suit, the bill would have to be dismissed. In the view we have
taken of the question, the intent alleged by the Government
is not necessary to be proved. The question is one of law
in regard to the meaning and effect of the agreement itself,
namely: Does the agreement restrain trade or commerce in
any way so as to be a violation of the act? We have no doubt
that it does. The agreement on its face recites that it is entered into "for the purpose of mutual protection by establishing and maintaining reasonable rates, rules and regulations on
all freight traffic, both through and locial." To that end the association is formed and a body created which is to adopt rates,
which, when agreed to, are to be the governing rates for all
the companies, and a violation of which subjects the defaulting company to the payment of a penalty, and although the
parties have a right to withdraw from the agreement on
giving thirty days' notice of a desire so to do, yet while in
force and assuming it to be lived up to, there can be no doubt

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that its direct, immediate and necessary effect is to put a
restraint upon trade or commerce as described in the act.
For these reasons the suit of the Government can be maintained without proof of the allegation that the agreement was
entered into for the purpose of restraining trade or commerce
or for maintaining rates above what was reasonable. The
necessary effect of the agreement is to restrain trade or commerce, no matter what the intent was on the part of those
who signed it.
One or two subsidiary questions remain to be decided.
It is said that to grant the injunction prayed for in this case
is to give the statute a retroactive effect; that the contract
at the time it was entered into was not prohibited or declared
illegal by the statute, as it had not then been passed; and to
now enjoin the doing of an act which was legal at the time it
was done would be improper. We give to the law no retroactive effect. The agreement in question is a continuing one.
The parties to it adopt certain machinery, and agree to certain methods for the purpose of establishing and maintaining
in the future reasonable rates for transportation. Assuming
such action to have been legal'at the time the agreement was
first entered into, the continuation of the agreement, after
it has been declared to be illegal, becomes a violation of the
act. The statute prohibits the continuing or entering into
such an agreement for the future, and if the agreement be
continued it then becomes a violation of the act. There is
nothing of an ex post facto character about the act. The
civil remedy by injunction and the liability to punishment
under the criminal provisions of the act are entirely distinct,
and there can be no question of any act being regarded as a
violation of the statute which occurred before it was passed.
After its passage, if the law be violated, the parties violating
it may render themselves liable to be punished criminally;
but not otherwise.
It is also argued that the United States have no standing in
court to maintain this bill; that they have no pecuniary
interest in the result of the litigation or in the question to be
decided by the court. We think that the fourth section of

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

343

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

the act invests the Government with full power and authority
to bring such an action as this, and if the facts be proved, an
injunction should issue. Congress having the control of interstate commerce, has also the duty of protecting it, and it is
entirely competent for that body to give the remedy by injunction as more efficient than any other civil remedy. The
subject is fully and ably discussed in the case of In re 1Debs,
158 U. S. 564. See also Cincinnati, New Orleans &c. Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U..S. 184; Texas
& Pacific Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162
Ti. S. 197.

For the reasons given, the decrees of the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals and of the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas must be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for
furtherproceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
FIELD, MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE SHmAS, dissenting.

It is unnecessary to refer to the authorities showing that
although a contract may in some measure restrain trade, it is
not for that reason void or even voidable unless the restraint
which it produces be unreasonable. The opinion of the court
concedes this to be the settled doctrine.
The contract between the railway companies which the
court holds to be void because it is found to violate the act of
Congress of the 2d of July, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, substantially
embodies only an agreement between the corporations by
which a uniform classification of freight is obtained, by which
the secret under-cutting of rates is sought to be avoided, and
the rates as stated in the published rate sheets, and which, as
a general rule, are required by law to be filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, are secured against arbitrary and
sudden changes. I content myself with giving this mere outline of the results of the contract, and do not stop to demonstrate that its provisions are reasonable, since the opinion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

the court rests upon that hypothesis. I commence, then, with
these two conceded propositions, one of law and the other of
fact, first, that only such contracts as unreasonably restrain
trade are violative of the general law, and, second, that the
particular contract here under consideration is reasonable, and
therefore not unlawful if the general principles of law are to
be applied to it.
The theory upon which the contract is held to be illegal is
that even though it be reasonable, and hence valid, under the
general principles of law, it is yet void, because it conflicts
with the act of Congress already referred to. Now, at the
outset, it is necessary to understand the full import of this
conclusion. As it is conceded that the contract does not unreasonably restrain trade, and that if it does not so unreasonably restrain, it is valid under the general law, the decision,
substantially, is that the act of Congress is a departure from
the general principles of law, and by its terms destroys the
right of individuals or corporations to enter into very many
reasonable contracts. But this proposition, I submit, is tantamount to an assertion that the act of Congress is itself
unreasonable. The difficulty of meeting, by reasoning, a
premise of this nature is frankly conceded, for, of course,
where the fundamental proposition upon whicih the whole
contention rests is that the act of Congress is unreasonable, it
would seem conducive to no useful purpose to invoke reason
as applicable to and as controlling the construction of a statute which is admitted to be beyond the pale of reason. The
question, then, is, is the act of Congress relied on to be so
interpreted as to give it a reasonable meaning, or is it to be
construed as being unreasonable and as violative of the elementary principles of justice ?
The argument upon which it is held that the act forbids
those reasonable contracts which are universally admitted to
be legal is thus stated in the opinion of the court, and I quote
the exact language in which it is there expressed, lest in seeking to epitomize I may not accurately reproduce the thought
which it conveys:
" Contracts in restraint of trade have been known and

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

345

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

spoken of for hundreds of years both in England andin this country, and the term includes all kinds of those contracts which
in fact restrain trade. Some of such contracts have been
held void and unenforcible in the courts by reason of their
restraint being unreasonable, while others have been held
valid because they were not of that nature. A contract may
be in restraint of trade and still be valid at. common law.
Although valid, it is nevertheless a contract in restraint of
trade, and would be so described either at common law or
elsewhere. By the simple use of the term 'contract in restraint of trade,' all contracts of that nature, whether valid
or otherwise, would be included, and not alone that kind of
contract which was invalid and unenforcible as being in unreasonable restraint of trade. When, therefore, the body of
an act pronounces as illegal every contract or combination
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States,
etc., the plain and ordinary meaning of such language is
not limited to that kind of contract alone which is in unrea
sonable restraint of trade, but all contracts are included in
such language, and no exception or limitation can be added
without placing in the act that which has been omitted by
Congress."
To state the proposition in the form in which it was earnestly pressed in the argument at bar, it is as follows: Congress has said every contract in restraint of trade is illegal.
When the law says every, there is no power in the courts, if
they correctly interpret and apply the statute, to substitute the
word " some" for the word " every." If Congress had meant
to forbid only restraints of trade which were unreasonable
it would have said so; instead of doing this it has said every,
and this word of universality embraces both contracts which
are reasonable and unreasonable.
Is the proposition which is thus announced by the court,
and which was thus stated at bar, well founded? is the first
question which arises for solution. I quote the title and the
first section of the act which, it is asserted, if correctly interpreted, destroys the right to make just and reasonable contracts:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

"An act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful
restraints and monopolies.
"Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce among
the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared
to be illegal. Every person who shall make any such contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said
punishments in the discretion of the court."
Is it correct to say that at common law the words "restraint
of trade" had a generic signification which embraced all contracts which restrained the freedom of trade, whether reasonable or unreasonable, and, therefore, that all such contracts are
within the meaning of the words "every contract in restraint of
trade"? I think a brief consideration of the history and development of the law on the subject will not only establish the inaccuracy of this proposition, but also demonstrate that the words
"restraint of trade" embrace only contracts which unreasonably
restrain trade, and, therefore, that reasonable contracts, although they, in some measure, "restrain trade," are not within
the meaning of the words. It is true that in the adjudged
cases language may be found referring to contracts in restraint of trade which are valid because reasonable. But this
mere form of expression, used not as a definition, does not
maintain the contention that such contracts are embraced
within the general terms every contract in restraint of trade.
The rudiments of the doctrine of contracts in restraint of trade
are found in the common law at a very early date. The first
case on the subject is reported in 6 Year Book 5, 2 Hen. V,
and is known as Dier's case. That was an action of damages
upon a bond conditioned that the defendant should not practise his trade as a dyer at a particular phlce during a limited
period, and it was held that the contract was illogal. The
principle upon which this case was decided was not described
as one forbidding contracts in restraint of trade, but was
stated to be one by which contracts restricting the liberty of

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

347

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

the subject were forbidden. The doctrine declared in that
case was applied in subsequent cases in England prior to the
case of Mitchel v. Reynolds, decided in 1711, and reported in
1 P. Wins. 181. There the distinction between general restraints and partial restraints was first definitely formulated,
and it was held that a contract creating a partial restraint
was valid and one creating a general restraint was not. The
theory of partial and general restraints established by that
case was followed in many decided cases in England, not,
however, without the correctness of the difference between
the two being in some instances denied and in others questioned, until the matter was set finally at rest by the House
of Lords in Nordenfelt v. The Maxim -Nordenfelt Guns and
Ammunition Co., reported in (1894) App. Cas. 535. In that
case it was held that the distinction between partial and general restraint was an incorrect criterion, but that whether a
contract was invalid because in restraint of trade must depend upon whether, on considering all the circumstances, the
contract was found to be reasonable or unreasonable. If reasonable, it was not a contract in restraint of trade, and if
unreasonable it was.
The decisions of the American courts substantially conform
to both the development and ultimate results of the English
cases. Whilst the rule of partial and general restraint has
been either expressly or impliedly admitted, the exact scope of
the distinction between the two has been the subject of discussion and varying adjudication. And although it is accurate
to say that in the cases expressions may be found speaking of
contracts as being in form, in restraint of trade and yet valid,
it results from an analysis of all the American cases, as it does
from the English, that these expressions in no way imply that
contracts which were valid because they only partially restrained trade were yet considered as embraced within the
definition of contracts in restraint of trade. On the contrary,
the reason of the cases, where contracts partially restraining
trade were excepted and hence held to be valid, was because
they were not contracts in restraint of trade in the legal
meaning of those words. Referring to the modern and Ameri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

can rule on the subject, Beach in his recent treatise on the
Modern Law of Contracts, at section 1569, says:
"The tendency of modern thought and decisions has been no
longer to uphold in its strictness the doctrine which formerly
prevailed respecting agreements in restraint of trade. The
severity with which such agreements were treated in the
beginning has relaxed more and more by exceptions and
qualilfications,and a gradual change has taken place, brought
about by the growth of industrial activities, and the enlargement of, commercial facilities which tend to render such
agreements less dangerous, because monopolies are less easy
of accomplishment."
The fact that the exclusion of reasonable contracts from
the' doctrine of restraint of trade was predicated on the
conclusion that such contracts were no longer considered as
coming within the meaning of the words "restraint of trade,"
is nowhere more clearly and cogently stated than in the
opinion of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York,
in the case of 3fatthews v. Associated Press of 2tfew York,
136 N. Y. 333. In considering the contention that a by-law
of the defendant association which prohibited its members
from receiving or publishing "the regular news dispatches of
any other news association covering a like territory and organized for a like purpose" was void, because it tended to
restrain trade and competition and to create a monopoly, the
learned judge said (p. 340):
"We do not think the by-law improperly tends to restrain
trade, assuming that the business of collecting and distributing
news would come within the definition of a trade. The latest
decisions of courts in this country and in England show a
strong tendency to very greatly circumscribe and narrow the
doctrine of avoiding contracts in restraint of trade. The
courts do not go to the length of saying that contracts which
they now would say are in restraint of trade are, nevertheless,
valid contracts, and to be enforced; they do, however, now
hold many contracts not open to the objection that they are in
restraint of trade which a few years back would have been
avoided on that sole grouind, both here and in England. The

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

349

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

cases in this court which are the latest manifestations of the
turn in the tide are cited in the opinion in this case at general
term, and are -DiamondMatch Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 73;
Hodge v. Neill, 107 N. Y. 244; Leslie v. Lorillard, 110
N. Y. 519.
"So that when we agree that a by-law which is in restraint
of trade is void, we are still brought back to the question what
is a restraint of trade in the modern definition of that term ?
The authority to make by-laws must also be limited by the
scope and purpose of the association. I think this by-law
is thus limited, and that it is not in restraint of trade as the
courts now interpret thatphrase."
This lucid statement aptly sums up the process of reasoning
by which partial and reasonable contracts came no longer to
be considered as included in the words contracts in restraint of
trade, and points to the fallacy embodied in the proposition
that contracts which were held not to be in restraint of trade
were yet covered by the words in restraint of trade; that is,
that although they were not such contracts, yet they continued so to be. After analyzing the provisions of the by-law
the opinion proceeds as follows (p. 341):
"Thus a by-law of the nature complained of would have
a tendency to strengthen the association and to render it more
capable of filling the duty it was incorporated to perform. A
business partnership could provide that none of its members
should attend to any business other than that of the partnership, and that each partner who came in must agree not to do
any other business and must give up all such business as he had
theretofore done. Such an agreement would not be in restraint
of trade, although its direct effect might be to restrain to
some extent the trade which had been done."
This adds cogency to the demonstration, and shows in the
most conclusive manner that the words contracts in restraint
of trade do not continue to define those contracts which are
no longer covered by the legal meaning of the words.
This court has not only recognized and applied the distinction
between partial and general restraints, but has also decided
that the true test whether a contract be in restraint of trade is

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

not whether in a measure it produces such effect, but whether
under all the circumstances it is reasonable. Oregon Steam
.A vigation Co. v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 64, 68; Gibbs v. Baltimore
Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396, 409. As it is unnecessary here to
enter into a detailed examination of the cases, I append in the
margin a reference to decisions of some of the state courts
and to several writers on the subject of contracts in restraint
of trade, by whom the doctrine is reviewed and the authorities
very fully referred to.'
It follows from the foregoing statement that at common
law contracts which only partially restrain trade, to use the
precise language of Maule, Justice, in Rannie v. Irvine,7 Man.
& G. 969, 978, were "an exception engrafted upon that rule,"
that is, the rule as to contracts in restraint of trade, "and that
the exception is in furtherance of the rule itself." I submit,
also, manifestly that the further development of the doctrine
by which it was decided that if a contract was reasonable it
would not be held to be included within contracts in restraint
of trade, although such contract might, in some measure, produce such an effect, was also an exception to the general rule as
to the invalidity of contracts in restraint of trade. The theory,
then, that the words restraint of trade define and embrace all
such contracts without reference to whether they are reasonable, amounts substantially to saying that, by the common law
and the adjudged American cases, certain classes of contracts
were carved out of and excepted from the general rule, and yet
were held to remain embraced within the general rule from
which they were removed. But the obvious conflict wvhich is
shown by this contradictory result to which the contention
leads rests not upon the mere form of statement but upon the
1 Diamond Match Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473 ; Leslie v. Lorillard, 110

N. Y. 519, 533; Beal v. Chase, 31 Michigan, 490, 518; National Benefit Co.
v. Union Hospital Co., 45 Minnesota, 272; Ellerman v. Chicago Junction
Railways &c. Co., 49'N. J. Eq. 215, 217; Richards v. Am. Desk &c. Co.,

87 Wisconsin, 503, 514; Note to 2 Parsons on Contracts, p. 748; Note to
Angier v. Webber, 92 Am. Dec. 751 (1867); Note to Mitchel v. Reynolds,

1 Smith's Leading Cases, 705, and Supplemental Note, 9th Am. ed. 716
(1888); Review of Cases by A. M. Eaton in 4 Harv. Law Review, p. 129
(1890) ; Patterson on Restraint of Trade (1891).

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

351

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

reason of things. This will, I submit, be shown by a very
brief analysis of the reasons by which partial restraints were
held not to be embraced in contracts in restraint of trade,
and by which ultimately all reasonable contracts were likewise decided not to be so embraced. That is to say, that the
reasoning by which the exceptions were created conclusively
shows the error of contending that the words contracts in
restraint of trade continued to embrace those reasonable contracts which those words no longer described.
It is perhaps true that the principle by which contracts in
restraint of the freedom of the subject or of trade were held
to be illegal was first understood to embrace all contracts
which in any degree accomplished these results. But as trade
developed it came to be understood that if contracts which
only partially restrained the freedom of the subject or of
trade were embraced in the rule forbidding contracts in restraint of trade, both the freedom of contract and trade itself
would be destroyed. Hence, from the reason of things, arose
the distinction that where contracts operated only a partial
restraint of the freedom of contract or of trade they were not
in contemplation of law contracts in restraint of trade. And
it was this conception also which, in its final aspect, led to the
knowledge that reason was to be the criterion by which it was
to be determined whether a contract which, in some measure,
restrained the freedom of contract and of trade, was in reality,
when considered in all its aspects, a contract of that character
or one which was necessary to the freedom of contract and of
trade. To define, then, the words "in restraint of trade" as
embracing every contract which in any degree produced that
effect would be violative of reason, because it would include
all those contracts which are the very essence of trade, and
would be equivalent to saying that there should be no trade,
and therefore nothing to restrain. The dilemma which would
necessarily arise from defining the words "contracts in restraint of trade" so as to destroy trade by rendering illegal
the contracts upon which trade depends, and yet presupposing that trade would continue and should not be restrained, is
shown by an argument advanced, and which has been con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

pelled by the exigency of the premise upon which it is based.
Thus, after insisting that the word " every" is all-embracing, it
is said from the necessity of things it will not be held to apply
to covenants in restraint of trade which are collateral to a
sale of property, because not "supposed" to be within the
letter or spirit of the statute. But how, I submit, can it be held
that the words "every contract in restraint of trade" embrace
all such contracts, and yet at the same time be said that certain contracts of that nature are not included? The asserted
exception not only destroys the rule which is relied on, but it
rests upon no foundation of reason. It must either result from
the exclusion of particular classes of contracts, whether they
be reasonable or not, or it must arise from the fact that the
contracts referred to are merely collateral contracts. But
many collateral contracts may contain provisions which make
The exception which is relied upon,
them unreasonable.
therefore, as rendering possible the existence of trade to be
restrained is either arbitrary or it is unreasonable.
But, admitting arguendo the correctness of the proposition
by which it is sought to include every contract, however
reasonable, within the inhibition of the law, the statute,
considered as a whole, shows, I think, the error of the construction placed upon it. Its title is "An act to protect trade
and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies."
The word "unlawful "7 clearly distinguishes between contracts
in restraint of trade which are lawful and those which are
not. In other words, between those which are unreasonably
in restraint of trade, and consequently invalid, and those
which are 'reasonable and hence lawful. When, therefore,
in the very title of the act the well-settled distinction between lawful and unlawful contracts is broadly marked, how
can an interpretation be correct which holds that all contracts,
whether lawful or not, are included in its provisions? Whilst
it is true that the title of an act cannot be used to destroy the
plain import of the language found in its body, yet when a
literal interpretation will work out wrong or injury, or where
the words of the statute are ambiguous, the title may be resorted to as an instrument of construction. In United State8

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

353

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, where general language found in
the body of a criminal statute was given a narrow and restricted meaning, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in the course
of the opinion, said (p. 631); "The title of an act cannot
control its words, but may furnish some aid in showing what
was in the mind of the legislature. The title of this act is
' An act for the punishment of certain crimes against the
It would seem that offences against the
United States.'
United States, not Offences against the human race, were
the crimes which the legislature intended by this law to
punish."
So, also, in United States v. Union Pacific Railroad, 91
U. S. 72, where the construction of a statute was involved,
it was held that the interpretation adopted was supported
by the title, which disclosed the general purpose which Congress had in view in adopting the law under consideration.
The same rule was announced in Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall.
374, 380, and Coosaw Mining Co. v. South Carolina, 144 U. S.
550, and cases there cited.
Pretermitting the consideration of the title, it cannot be
denied that the words "restraint of trade" used in the act
in question had long prior to the adoption of that act been
construed as not embracing reasonable contracts. The wellsettled rule is that where technical words are used in an act,
and their meaning has previously been conclusively settled,
by long usage and judicial construction, the use of the words
without an indication of an intention to give them a new
significance is an adoption of the generally accepted meaning
affixed to the words at the time the act was passed. Particularly is this rule imperative where the statute in which the
words are used creates a crime, as does the statute under
consideration, and gives no specific definition of the crime
created. Thus in United States v. Palmer (supra), Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall, referring to the term "robbery" as used in
the statute, said (p. 630): "Of the meaning of the term
'robbery,' as used in the statute, we think no doubt can be
entertained. It must be understood in the sense in which
it is recognized and defined at common law."
VOL. cLxvi-2 3

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

If these obvious rules of interpretation be applied, it seems
to me they render it impossible to construe the words every
restraint of trade used in the act in any other sense than as
excluding reasonable contracts, as the fact that such contracts
were not considered to be within the rule of contracts in restraint of trade, was thoroughly established both in England
and in this country at the time the act was adopted. It is,
I submit, not to be doubted that the interpretation of the
words "every contract in restraint of trade," so as to embrace
within its purview every contract, however reasonable, would
certainly work an enormous injustice and operate to the undue
restraint of the liberties of the citizen. But there is no canon
of interpretation which requires that the letter be followed,
when by so doing an unreasonable result is accomplished.
On the contrary, the rule is the other way, and exacts that
the spirit which vivifies, and not the letter which killeth, is
the proper guide by which to correctly interpret a statute.
In Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374, 380, this court declared
that "a thing may be within the letter of the statute and
not within its meaning, and within its meaning, though not
within its letter. The intention of the lawmaker is the law."
In -au Ow Bew v. The United States, 144 U. S. 47, this court,
speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, said (p. 59):
"Nothing is better settled than that statutes should receive
a sensible construction, such as will effectuate the legislative
intention, and, if possible, so as to avoid an unjust or an
absurd conclusion. Church of the 11 oly Trinity v. United
States, 143 U. S. 457; Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92
U. S. 259; United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482; Oates v.
National Bank, 100 U. S. 239."
In all the cases there cited the literal language of the statutes
was disregarded, in order to restrict its operation within reason.
To those cases may also be added United States v. Mooney,
116 U. S. 104, where it was contended that by the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, the Circuit Courts were vested with
jurisdiction concurrent with District Courts over certain suits.
The plausibility of the argument, based upon the literal language of the statute, was conceded by the court, but the

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

355

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

results which would follow from sustaining the construction
contended for were pointed out by the court, and it was observed (p. 107): "A construction which involves such results
was clearly not contemplated by Congress."
Indeed, it seems to me there can be no doubt that reasonable contracts cannot be embraced within the provisions of
the statute if it be interpreted by the light of the supreme
rule commanding that the intention of the law must be carried out, and it must be so construed as to afford the remedy
and frustrate the wrong contemplated by its enactment.
The plain intention of the law was to protect the liberty of
contract and the freedom of trade. Will this intention not
be frustrated by a construction which, if it does not destroy,
at least gravely impairs, both the liberty of the individual to
contract and the freedom of trade? If the rule of reason no
longer determines the right of the individual to contract or
secures the validity of contracts upon which trade depends
and results, what becomes of the liberty of the citizen or of
the freedom of trade? Secured no longer by the law of
reason, all these rights become subject, when questioned, to
the mere caprice of judicial authority. Thus, a law in favor
of freedom of contract, it seems to me, is so interpreted as to
gravely impair that freedom. Progress and not reaction was
the purpose of the act of Congress. The construction now
given the act disregards the whole current of- judicial authority and tests the right to contract by the conceptions of
that right entertained at the time of the year-books instead
of by the light of reason and the necessity of modern society.
To do this violates, as I see it, the plainest conception of
public policy; for as said by Sir G. Jessel, Master of the
Rolls, in Printing &o. Company v. Sampson, L. R. 19 Eq. 462,
"if there is one thing which more than another public policy
requires it is that men of full age and competent understanding shall have the utmost liberty of contracting, and their
contracts when entered into freely and voluntarily shall be
held sacred and shall be enforced by courts of justice."
The remedy intended to be accomplished by the act of Congress was to shield against the danger of contract or combi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

nation by the few against the interest of the many and to the
detriment of freedom. The construction now given, I think,
strikes down the interest of the many to the advantage and
benefit of the few. It has been held in a case involving a
combination among workingmen, that such combinations are
embraced in the act of Congress in question, and this view
was not doubted by this court. In re Debs, 64 Fed. Rep. 724,
745-755; 158 U. S. 564. The interpretation of the statute,
therefore, which holds that reasonable agreements are within
its purview, makes it embrace every peaceable organization or
combination of the laborer to benefit his condition either by
obtaining an increase of wages or diminution of the hours
of labor. Combinations among labor for this purpose were
treated as illegal under the construction of the law, which included reasonable contracts within the doctrine of the invalidity of contract or combinations in restraint of trade, and they
were only held not to be embraced within that doctrine either
by statutory exemption therefrom or by the progress which
made reason the controlling factor on the subject. It follows
that the construction which reads the rule of reason out of the
statute embraces within its inhibition every contract or combination by which workingmen seek to peaceably better their
condition. It is therefore, as I see it, absolutely true to say
that the construction now adopted which works out such results not only frustrates the plain purpose intended to be
accomplished by Congress, but also makes the statute tend to
an end never contemplated, and against the accomplishment
of which its provisions were enacted.
But conceding for the sake of argument that the words
every contract in restraint of trade," as used in the act of
Congress in question, prohibits all such contracts however
reasonable they may be, and therefore that all that great body
of contracts which are commonly entered into between individuals or corporations and which promote and develop trade,
and which have been heretofore considered as lawful, are no
longer such; and conceding also that agreements entered into
by associations of workingmen to peaceably better their condition either by obtaining an increase or preventing a decrease

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

357

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

of wages, or by securing a reduction in the hours of labor, or
for mutually protecting each other from unjust discharge, or
for other reasqnable purposes, have become unlawful, it remains to consider whether the provisions of the act of 1890
were intended to apply to agreements made between carriers
for the purpose of classifying the freight to be by them carried,
or preventing secret cutting of the published rates; in other
words, whether the terms of the statute were intended to
apply to contracts between carriers entered into for the purpose of securing fairness in their dealings with each other and
tending to protect the public against improper discrimination
and sudden changes in rates. To answer this question involves
deciding whether the act here relied upon was intended to abrogate the provisions of the act of Congress of the 4th of February, 1887, and the amendments thereto, commonly known
as the Interstate Commerce Act. The question is not whether
railway companies may not violate the terms of the statute of
1890 if they do acts which it forbids and punishes, but whether
that statute was intended to abrogate the power of railway
companies to make contracts with each other which are either
expressly sanctioned by the Interstate Commerce Act or the
right to make which arises by reasonable implication from the
terms of that act; that is to say, not whether the act of 1890
is not operative upon all persons and corporations, but whether,
being so generally operative, it was intended to forbid, as in restraint of trade, all contracts on the subjects embraced within
and controlled by the interstate commerce law. The statute,
commonly known as the Interstate Commerce Act, was a special act, and it was intended to regulate interstate commerce
transported by railway carriers. All its provisions directly
and expressly related to this subject. The act of 1890, on the
contrary, is a general law, not referring specifically to carriers
of interstate commerce. The rule is that a general will not
be held to repeal a special statute unless there be a clear implication unavoidably resulting from the general law that it
was the intention that the provisions of the general law should
cover the subject-matter previously, expressly and specifically
provided for by particular legislation. The doctrine on this

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

subject is thus stated in Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556,
570:
"'The general principle to be applied,'said Bovill, C. J., in
Thorpe v. Adams, L. R. 6 C. P. 135, 'to the construction of
acts of Parliament, is that a general act is not to be construed
to repeal a previous particular act, unless there is some express
reference to the previous legislation on the subject, or unless
there is a necessary inconsistency in the two acts standing
together.' ' And the reason is,' said Wood, V. C., in Fitzgerald
v. Champenys, 30 L. J. N. S. Eq. 782; 2 Johns. & Hem. 31-54,
'that the legislature, having had its attention directed to a
special subject, and having observed all the circumstances of
the case and provided for them, does not intend by a general
enactment afterward to derogate from its own act when it
makes no special mention of its intention so to do.' "
These principles thus announced are treated as elementary
by the text writers. Endlich on Interpretation of Statutes,
§ 223; Sedgwick on Statutory Construction, §§ 157, 158;
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, § 157.
Does, therefore, the implication irresistibly arise that Congress intended in the act of 1890 to abrogate, in whole or in
part, the provisions of the act of 1887, regulating interstate
commerce? It seems to me that the nature of the two enactments clearly demonstrates that there was no such intention.
The act to regulate interstate commerce expressed the purpose
of Congress to deal with a complex and particular subject
which, from its very nature, required special legislation. That
act was the initiation of a policy by Congress looking to the
development and working out of a harmonious system to regulate the highly important subject of interstate transportation.
Conceding arguendo that the debates which took place at
the time of the passage of the act of 1890 may not be resorted
to as a means of interpreting its text, yet a review of the proceedings connected with the passage of the act of July 2, 1890,
through the two houses of Congress, it seems to me, leaves no
room for question that the act was not designed to cover the
particular subjects which had been theretofore specially regulated by provisions of the interstate commerce law.

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

359

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

Prior to the passage of the act of 1890, various reports had
been made to Congress concerning the operations of the Interstate Commerce Act, in which the commission pointed out the
desirability and necessity of contracts between railroad companies in the matter of classification, stable rates, etc. After
the act of 1890 had been adopted in the Senate, it was
amended in the House of Representatives so as to specifically
include among the contracts declared lawful "contracts for
the transportation of persons or property from one State or
Territory into another." Cong. Rec. vol. 21, part 5, pp. 4099,
4144. On the return of the bill to the Senate the amendment
was agreed to with the added provision that the contracts for
transportation to be prohibited, "should only be such as raise
the rates of transportation above what is just and reasonable."
lb. 4753. The House refused to concur in the Senate amendment. A conference committee was appointed by both bodies,
which recommended that the House of Representatives recede
from its disagreement to the amendments of the Senate and
agree to the same, modified by the addition of the provision
that "nothing in this act shall be deemed or held to impair
the powers of the several States in respect to any of the
matters in this act mentioned." In a statement accompanying the report, Mr. Stewart, for the conferees on the part of
the Htouse, said :
"A majority of the committee of conference on the part
of the Hlouse on the disagreeing votes of the two houses on
Senate bill one, submit the following statement-:
"In the original bill two things were declared illegal,
namely: contracts in restraint of interstate trade or commerce, and the monopolization of such trade.
"Its only object was the control of trusts, so called, so far
as such combinations in their relation to interstate trade are
within reach of Federal legislation.
"The House amendment extends the scope of the act to all
agreements entered into for the purpose of preventing competition, either in the purchase or sale of commodities, or in
the transportation of persons or property within the jurisdiction of Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

"It declares illegal any agreement for relief from the
effects of competition in the two industries of transportation and merchandising, however excessive or destructive such
competition may be.
"The amendment reported by the conferees is the Senate.
amendment with the added proviso that the power of the
States over the subjects embraced in the act shall not be impaired thereby.
"It strikes from the House amendment the clause relating
to contracts for the purchase of merchandise, and modifies the
transportation clause by making unlawful agreements which
raise rates, above what is just and reasonable." Cong. Rec.
vol. 21, part 6, p. 5950.
The House rejected the report of the confefence committee
and adhered to its amendments. A new conference committee was appointed, and the recommendation of that committee that both houses recede was concurred in, and the bill
as it originally passed the Senate was adopted. Cong. Rec.
vol. 21, part 9, p. 6212.
It thus appears that the bill was originally introduced in
the form ia which it now appears; that this form was
thought not to be sufficient to embrace railroad transportation,
and that a determined effort was made by the proposed
amendment to include such contracts, and that, the effort was
unsuccessful. The reports to Congress by the commission and
by the conference committee being facts proper to ,be noticed
in seeking to ascertain the intention of Congress, Church of
-Holy Trinity v. United States, 143 U. S.457, it would seem

to be manifest therefrom that there was no intention by the
act to interfere with the control and regulation of railroads
under the. Interstate Commerce Act "orwith acts of the companies which had therefore 'been recognized as in conformity
to and not in conflict with that act.
That there was and could have been no intention to repeal
by the act of 1890 the earlier "act to regulate interstate commerce" is additionally evidenced by the fact that no reference
is made in the later act to the prior one, and that no language
is contained in the act of 1890 Which could in any way be con-

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

'361

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

strued as abrogating any of the rights conferred or powers
called into existence by the Interstate Commerce Act. Nowhere, contemporaneous with the act of 1890, is there anything indicating that any one supposed that the provisions of
that act were intended to repeal the Interstate Commerce Act.
The understanding of Congress in this respect is shown by the
circumstance that the Interstate Commerce Act has been
amended in material particulars and treated as existing since
the adoption of the act of 1890; and this conception of the
legislative department of the Government has also been that
entertained by the executive and judicial departments, evidenced by the appointment of new members of the commission, and by decisions of the courts enforcing various provisions
of that act, and treating it as still subsisting in its entirety.
The two laws then coexisting - is the agreement of the carriers
to secure a uniform classification of freight and to prevent
secret changes of the published rates, in other words, to secure
just and fair dealings between each other, sanctioned by the
act to regulate interstate commerce, and, therefore, not within
the inhibition of the act of 1890 ?
The Interstate Commerce Act provided for the appointment of a commission to whom was to be confided the supervision of the execution of the law. Without going into
detailed mention of the provisions of the statute, I adopt
and quote the summary statement of the leading features of
the original act contained in the first annual report made to
Congress by the commission, as required by the act. It is as
follows:
"All charges made for services by carriers subject to the act
must be reasonable and just. Every unjust and unreasonable
charge is prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
"The direct or indirect charging, demanding, collecting or
receiving for any. service rendered a greater or less compensation from any one or more persons than from any other for a
like and contemporaneous service, is declared to be unjust discrimination and is prohibited.
"The giving of any undue or unreasonable preferences, as
between persons or localities, or kinds of traffic, or the subject-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

ing any one of them to undue or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage, is declared to be unlawful.
"Reasonable, proper and equal facilities for the interchange
of traffic between lines, and for the receiving, forwarding and
delivering of passengers and property between connecting
lines is required, and discrimination in rates and charges as
between connecting lines is forbidden.
"It is made unlawful to charge or receive any greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation of passengers or the like kind of property under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions for a shorter than for a longer
distance over the same line in the same direction, the shorter
being included within the longer distance.
"Contracts, agreements or combinations for the pooling of
freights of different and competing railroads, or for dividing
between them the aggregate or net earnings of such railroads
or any portion thereof, are declared to be unlawful.
"All carriers subject to the law are required to print their
tariffs for the transportation of persons and property, and to
keep them for public inspection at every depot or station on
their roads. An advance in rates is not to be made until
after ten days' public notice, but a reduction in rates may be
made to take effect at once, the notice of the same being immediately and publicly given. The rates publicly notified
are to be the maximum as well as the minimum charges which
can be collected or received for the services respectively for
which they purport to be established.
" Copies of all tariffs are required to be filed with this commission, which is also to be promptly notified of all changes
that shall be made in the same. The joint tariffs of connecting roads are also required to be filed, and also copies of all
contracts, agreements or arrangements between carriers in
relation to traffic affected by the act.
"It is made unlawful for any carrier to enter into any combination, contract or agreement, expressed or implied, to prevent,
by change of time schedules, carriage in different cars, or by
other means or devices, the carriage of freights from being continuous from the place of shipment to the place of destination."

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

363

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

These provisions substantially exist in the act. as now in
force, except that by an amendment made March 2, 1889, it
was provided that rates should not be reduced by carriers
except upon three days' public notice of an intention so to do.
This summary of the act, which omits reference to a number of its provisions relating to the power of the commission
and the mode in which these powers are to be exercised, will
suffice for an examination of the matter in hand.
Now, a consideration of the terms of the statute, I submit,
makes it clear that the contract here sought to be avoided
as illegal is either directly sanctioned or impliedly authorized
thereby. That the act did not contemplate that the relations
of the carrier should be confined to his own line and to business
going over such line alone, is conclusively shown by the fact
that the act specifically provides for joint and continuous lines;
in other words, for agreements between several roads to compose
a joint line. That these agreements are to arise from contract
is also shown by the fact that the law provides for the filing
of such contracts with the commission. And it was also contemplated that the agreements should cover joint rates, since
it provides for the making of such joint tariffs and for their
publication and filing with the commission. The making of a
tariff of this character includes necessarily agreements for the
classification of freight, as the freight classification is the essential element in the making up of a rate. That the interstate
commerce rates, all of which are controlled by the provisions
as to reasonableness, were not intended to fluctuate hourly and
daily as competition might ebb and flow, results from the fact
that the published rates could not either be increased or
reduced, except after a specified time. It follows, then, that
agreements as to reasonable rates and against their secret reduction conform exactly to the terms of the act. Indeed, the
authority to make agreements on this subject not only results
from the terms of the act just referred to, but from its
mandatory provisions forbidding discrimination against or
preference to persons and places. The argument that these
provisions referred to joint lines alone and not to competitive
lines is without force; since joint rates necessarily relate to and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

are influenced by the rates on competitive lines. To illustrate,
suppose three joint lines of railroads between Chicago and
New York, each made up of many roads. How could a joint
rate be agreed on by the roads composing one of these continuous lines, without an ascertainment of the rate existing
on the other continuous line? What contract could be made
with safety for transportation over one of the lines without
taking into account the rate of all the others? There certainly could be no prevention of unjust discrimination as to
the persons and places within a given territory, unless the
rates of all competing lines within the territory be considered
and the sudden change of the published rates of all such lines
be guarded against.
I do not further elaborate the reasons demonstrating that
classification is essential to 'rate making, and that a joint rate
to be feasible must consider the competitive rates in the same
territory, since these propositions are to me self-evident, and
their correctness is substantiated by statements found in the
reports of the Interstate Commerce Commission to Congress,
of which reports judicial notice may be taken. Heath v.
Wallace, 138 U. S. 573, 584.
I excerpt from some of these reports of the commission to
Congress statements bearing on these subjects,, as well as
other statements indicating that agreements among carriers,
competitive as well as connecting, for the purpose of securing
a uniform classification and preventing of undercutting of
rates, underbilling, etc., existed prior to the Interstate Commerce Act, were continued thereafter, and were deemed not to
be forbidden by law, but, on the contrary, were considered as
instruments tending to secure its successful evolution. Whilst
it is doubtless true that in a recent report the commission, as
now constituted, has said that agreements between competitors to prevent the undercutting of rates may operate to cause
carriers to disregard the lawful orders of the commission,
this fact does not change the legal inference to be deduced
from the construction placed upon the law by those charged
with its administration in the period immediately following
its adoption and which was then reported to Congress.

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

365

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

On the subject of relative rates, the commission at page 39
of their first, annual report said: "Questions of rates- on one
line or at one. point cannot be considered by themselves exclusively ; a change in them may affect rates in a considerable
part of the country. . . . Just rates are always relative;
the act itself provides for its being so when it forbids unjust
discrimination as between localities." That is to say, if one
continuous line made joint rates and fixed and published them,
and the other then made a different rate, not only would the
first joint rate be injurious to the interests of the railroads
making it, during the period in which it could not be changed,
but would also be against the interests of the public and of
those who had contracted to ship, since it would create among
shippers and the receivers that inequality which it was the
express purpose of the act to prevent.
In the same report of the commission, at page 33, not only
the expediency but the necessity of contractual relations between railroad companies is pointed out in the following
language:
"To make railroads of the greatest possible service to the
country, contract relations would be essential, because there
would need to be joint tariffs, joint running arrangements, an
interchange of cars and a giving of credit to a large extent,
some of which were obviously beyond the reach of compulsory
legislation, and even if they were not, could be best settled
and all the incidents and qualifications fixed by the voluntary
action of the parties in control of the roads respectively."
Also at page 35, after referring to the fact that the former
railroad associations had been continued in existence since the
enactment of the interstate commerce law, though pooling
had been prohibited, among other objects, for the "making of
regulations for uninterrupted and harmonious railroad communication and exchange of traffic within the territories embraced by their workings," the commission observed that
isome regulations in addition to those made by the law are
almost if not altogether indispensable."
On the same page the fact is emphasized that classification
had not been taken, by the act, out of the hands of the carriers,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, 1Shiras, JJ.

and it was observed that classification was best made by the
joint action of the railroads themselves. In its second annual
report the commission, in commenting upon the evils arising
from the want of friendly business relations between railroads
and the injury that a short road might cause by simply abstaining from extending accommodation that could not be
lawfully forced from it, said (p. 28):
" The public has an interest in being protected against the
probable exercise of any such power. But its interest goes
further than this; it goes to the establishment of such relations
among the managers of roads as will lead to the extension of
their traffic arrangements with mutual responsibility, just as
far as may be possible, so that the public may have in the service performed all the benefits and conveniences that might
be expected to follow from general federation. There is
nothing in the existence of such arrangements which is at all
inconsistent with earnest competition. They are of general
convenience to the carriers, as well as to the public, and their
voluntary extension may be looked for until in the strife
between the roads the limits of competition are passed and
warfare is entered upon. But in order to form them great
mutual concessions are often indispensable, and such concessions are likely to be made when relations are friendly, but
are not to be looked for when hostile relations have been
inaugurated."
At page 29 of the report the existence of traffic arrangements between railroads is called to the attention of Congress
in the following language:
"While the commission is not at this time prepared to
recommend general legislation towards the establishment and
promotion of relations between the carriers that shall better
subserve the public interest than those that are now common,
it must nevertheless look forward to the possibility of something of that nature becoming at some time imperative, unless
a great improvement in the existing condition of things is
voluntarily inaugurated."
So, also, the existence of traffic associations, between competitive roads, for purposes recognized by the act as lawful,

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

367

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

and their favorable tendency seems to be conceded in the
fourth annual report of the commissioners, where, at page 29,
it is said:
"If the regulations which are established by the railroad
associations were uniformly, or even generally, observed by
their members, respectively, there would be little difficulty in
enforcing a rule of reasonable rates, for the competition between the roads which even then would exist would be such
as would prevent the establishment of rates which are altogether unreasonable, and the public would not be likely to
complain if they were satisfied that the rate sheets were
observed."
The character of associations such as that under consideration is alluded to at page 26 of the same report, where, in
discussing the subject of how best to secure a unity of railroad
interests, it was observed " without legislation to favor it little
can be done beyond the formation of consulting and advisory
associations, and the work of these is not only necessarily
defective, but it is also limited to a circumscribed territory."
The significance of the statement that to obtain uniformity
of classification, a result most desirable for the best interests
of the public, agreements between the railroads themselves
was essential, is apparent from the fact, frequently declared
by the commission in its reports, that uniformity of classification is one of the prerequisites of uniformity of rates. 1 Ann.
Rep. 30, 35; 2 Ann. Rep. 40; 3 Ann. Rep. 51, 52 ; 4 Ann. Rep.
32. The very great importance of uniform and stable rates
has also frequently been reiterated in the reports of the commission. Thus, at page 6 of the first annual report, in reviewing the causes which led to the adoption of the Interstate
Commerce Act, it is said:
"Permanence of rates was also seen to be of very high importance to every man engaged in business enterprises, since
without it business contracts were lottery ventures. It was
also perceived that the absolute sum of the money charges
exacted for transportation, if not clearly beyond the bounds
of reason, was of inferior importance in comparison with the
obtaining of rates that should be open, equal, relatively just

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

as between places and as steady as in the nature of things
practicable."
was
That unstable rates between competing carriers lead to
injurious discrimination, one of the evils sought to be remedied
by the act, was mentioned in the same report at pages 36 and
37, in connection with a discussion of the subject of reasonable charges, in the following language:

"Among the reasons most frequently operating to cause
complaints of rates may be mentioned: the want of steadiness
in rates.

.

.

.

More often, perhaps, growing out of disa-

greements between competing companies, which, when they
become serious, may result in wars of rates between them.
Wars of rates, when mutual injury is the chief purpose in
view, as is sometimes the case, are not only mischievous in
their immediate effects upon the parties to them, and upon
the business community whose calculations and plans must
for a time be disturbed, but they have a permanently injurious influence upon the railroad service because of their effect
upon the public mind."
The evil effects of shifting rates was also treated of at page
22 of the second annual report, where the commission inserted
a letter received from a business man of Kansas City, not
connected with railroads, who said:
"The frequent and violent changes in railway rates which
have taken place during the past few years, and which seem
likely to be unabated, seems to me to call for new legislation
in the way of amendment of the interstate commerce bill.
These changes are ruinous to all business men, as well as
the railways, and are the cause of great discontent among
shippers everywhere, and especially to the farmers. What is
needed is a fixed permanent rate, which shall be reasonable,
and which can be counted upon by any one engaging in
business."
So, also, in the fourth annual report it was observed
that shifting, unstable rates, by competing roads, was contrary to the purpose of the Interstate Commerce Act, and
hampered the operations of the commission. It was said at
page 21:

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

369

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

"In former reports the commission has referred to the undoubted fact that competition for business between tailroad
companies is often pushed to ruinous extremes, and the most
serious difficulty in the way of securing obedience to the law
may be traced to this fact. When competition degenerates
to rate wars, they are as unsettling to the business of the
country as they are mischievous to the carriers, and the spirit
of existing law is against them."
In addition to the text of the law heretofore commented on,
the section which forbids pooling adds cogency tb the construction that the law could not have been intended to forbid
contracts between carriers for the purpose of preventing the
doing of those things which the law forbade. For, as I have
said, it cannot be denied that at the time of the passage of the
act there existed associations and contracts between carriers
for other purposes than the pooling of their earnings. Whilst
the exact scope of these contracts is not shown, the fact that
their existence was considered by Congress results from: the
face of the act, since it requires that agreements and contracts
between carriers shall be filed with the commission. Moreover, the earlier reports of the commission, as I have shown,
refer to such traffic agreements, and state that after the passage of the act they continued to exist as they had existed
before eliminating only the pooling feature.
In view of these facts, when the act expressly forbids contracts and combinations between railroadsfor pooling, and
makes no mention of other contracts, it is clear that the con-

tinued existence of such contracts was contemplated, and they
are not intended to be forbidden by the act. The elementary
rule of expressio unius entirely justifies this implication.
And it is, I submit, no answer to this reasoning to say that
the record does not show the terms of these contracts, since
judicial notice may be taken of the reports made by the commission to Congress, from which reports the nature of the contracts is sufficiently pointed out to authorize the conclusion that
they were of the general character of the one here assailed.
Whilst the excerpts from the reports of the commission
which have been heretofore made, serve to elucidate the text
VOL. CLXVI-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

of the act, they also, I submit, constitute a contemporaneous
construction of the provisions of the act made by the officers
charged with its administration, which is entitled to very
great weight. Brown v. United States, 113 U. S. 568, 571,
and cases there cited.
The rule sustained by these authorities receives additional
sanction here, from the fact that the construction at the time
made by the commission was reported to Congress, and the
act was subsequently amended by that body without any
repudiation of such construction.
It is, I submit, therefore not to be denied that the agreement between the carriers, the validity of which is here
drawn in question, seeking to secure uniform classification
and to prevent the undercutting of the published rates, even
though such agreements be made with competing as'well as
joint lines, is in accord with the plain text of the Interstate
Commerce Act, and is in harmony with the views of the purposes of that law contemporaneously expressed to Congress
by the body immediately charged with its administration,
and tacitly approved by Congress.
But, departing from a consideration of the mere text and
looking at the Interstate Commerce Act from a broader aspect, in order to discover the intention of the lawmaker and
to discern the evils which it was intended to suppress and the
remedies which it was proposed to afford by its enactment, it
seems to me very clear that the contract in question is in accord
with the act and should not be avoided.
It cannot be questioned that the Interstate Commerce Act
was intended by Congress to inaugurate a new policy for the
purpose of reasonably controlling interstate commerce rates
and the dealings of carriers with reference to such rates.
Two systems were necessarily presented: the one a prohibition against the exaction of all unreasonable rates and subject to this restriction, allowing the hourly and daily play
of untrammelled competition, resulting in inequality and discrimination; the other imposing a like duty as to reasonable
rates, and whilst allowing competition -subject to this limitation, preventing the injurious consequences arising from a

UNITED 'STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

371

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

constant and daily change of rates between connecting or
competing lines, thus avoiding discrimination and preference
as to persons and places.
The second of these systems is, I submit, plainly the one
embodied in the Interstate Commerce Act. At the outset
reasonable rates are exacted, and the power to strike down
rates which are unreasonable is provided. In the subsequent
provisions discrimination against persons and against places
to arise from daily fluctuation in rates is guarded against by
requiring publication of rates and forbidding changes of the
published rates, whether by way of increase or reduction
during a limited time. To hold, then, the contract under consideration to be invalid when it simply provides for uniform
classification, and seeks to prevent secret or sudden changes
in the published rates, would be to avoid a contract covered
by the law and embodied in its policy. It cannot, I think, be
correctly said that whilst the avowed purpose of the contract
in question embraced only the foregoing objects, its ulterior
intent was to bring about results in conflict with the interstate commerce law. The answers to the bill of complaint
specially denied the allegations as to the improper motives of
the parties to the contract, and also expressly averred their
lawful and innocent intention. As the case was heard upon
bill and answer, improper motives cannot therefore be imputed. Indeed, the opinion of the court sustains this view,
since it eliminates all consideration of improper motives and
holds that the validity of the contract must depend upon its
face, and deduces as a legal. conclusion from this premise that
the contract is invalid, because even reasonable contracts are
embraced within the purview of the act of 1890. To my
mind, the judicial declaration that carriers cannot agree
among themselves for the purpose of aiding. in the enforcement of the provisions of the interstate commerce law, will
strike a blow at the beneficial results of that act, and will
have a direct tendency to produce the preferences and discriminations which it was one of the main objects of the act
to frustrate. The great complexity of the subject, the numerous interests concerned in it, the vast area over which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

operates, present difficulties enough without, it seems to me,
its being advisable to add to them by holding that a contract
which is supported by the text of the law is invalid, because,
although it is reasonable and just, it must be considered as in
restraint of trade.
Nor, do I think that the danger of these evil consequences
is avoided by the statement that if the contract be annulled,
these dangers will not arise, because experience shows that
contracts such as that here in question, when entered into
by railroads, are never observed, and therefore it is just as
though the contract did not exist. How, may I ask, can
judicial notice be taken of this fact, when it is said that
judicial notice cannot be taken of the fact that there are such
contracts? How, moreover, may I ask, can it be said on one
branch of the case that the contract, although reasonable,
must be avoided, because it is a contract in restraint of trade,
and then on the other branch declared that contracts of that
character never do restrain trade' because they are never
carried out between the parties who enter into them?
There is another contention which, I submit, is also unsound, that is the suggestion that it is impossible to say that
there can be such a thing as a reasonable contract between
railroads seeking to avoid sudden or secret changes in reasonable rates because the question of railroad rates is so complex
and is involved in so much difficulty that to say that a rate is
reasonable is equivalent to saying that it must be fixed by
the railroads themselves, as no mind outside of the officials of
the particular roads can determine whether a rate is reasonable or not. But this proposition absolutely conflicts with the
methods of dealing with railroad rates adopted in England
and expressly put in force by Congress in the Interstate Commerce Act and by many, of the States of the Union. For
years, the rule in England was reasonable rates enforced by
judicial power, and subsequently by enactment securing such
reasonable rates by administrative authority. The Interstate
Commerce Act especially provides for reasonable rates, and

vests primarily in the commission, and -then in the courts the
power to enforce the provision and like machinery is provided

UNITED STATES v. FREIGHT ASSOCIATION.

373

Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

in many of the States. Will it be said that Congress and
other legislative bodies have provided for reasonable rates and
created the machinery to enforce them, when whether rates
are reasonable or not is impossible of ascertainment? If this
proposition be correct, what, may I ask, becomes of the judgment of this court in Cincinnati,New Orleans &c. Railway
Co. v, Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, where
it is held that the order of the commission finding certain
rates charged by a railroad to be unreasonable was correct?
In conclusion, I notice briefly the proposition that though it
be admitted that contracts, when made by individuals or private corporations, when reasonable, will not be considered as
in restraint of trade, yet such is not the case as to public corporations, because any contract made by them in any measure
in restraint of trade, even when reasonable, is presumptively
injurious to the public interests, and therefore invalid. The
fallacy in this proposition consists in overlooking the distinction between acts of a public corporation which are ultra vires
and those which are not. If the contract of such a corporation which is assailed be ultra vires, of course the question of
reasonableness becomes irrelevant, since the charter is the reason of the being of the corporation. The doctrine is predicated
on the following expressions taken from the opinion of the
court expressed by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller in Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396, 408:
"That in the instance of business of such a character that
it presumably cannot be restrained to any extent whatever
without prejudice to the public interests, courts decline to
enforce or sustain contracts imposing such restraint, however
partial, because in contravention of public policy. This subject is much considered, and the authorities cited in West Virginia Transportation Cb. v. Ohio River Pipe -Line Co., 22
West Va. 600; Chicago &c. Gas Co. v. People's Gas Co., 121
Illinois, 530; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. American
Union Telegraph Co., 65 Georgia, 160."
But, manifestly, this language must be construed with reference to the facts of the case in which it was used. What the
facts were in that case is shown by the statement in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Field, Gray, Shiras, JJ.

opinion (p. 406) that the contract there considered "was an,
agreement for the abandonment by one of the companies of
the discharge of its duties to the public." It is also to be
remembered that it was this character of contract, that is, one
which was ultra vires, which was held to be illegal in the
West Virginia, Illinois and Georgia cases, which were cited in
the Gibbs case in support of the excerpt just quoted. That
the language in the Gibbs ease referred to conditions of fact
like that there passed upon, that is, contracts ultra vires, is
shown by the subsequent case of Chicago &c. Railway Co. v.
Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S. 79, where a contract of the railway company was assailed as in restraint of trade, and the
court held that although by the contract the company had
restrained itself for a long period of years from using other
than certain drawing room and sleeping cars, the contract was
yet a valid and proper contract. Manifestly, this decision is
utterly irreconcilable with the view that in the case of a railroad company, every restraint imposed by contract upon its
freedom of action is necessarily injurious to the public interests, and hence invalid. Indeed, the proposition that any
restraint of its conduct which a railroad may create by contract is invalid, because such road is a public corporation, is
demonstrated to be erroneous by the Interstate Commerce Act,
which, in the provisions heretofore referred to, not only expressly authorizes, but in some instances, commands agreements from which restraint of the action of the corporation
necessarily arises.
I am authorized to say that MR.JUsTicE FIELD, MR.JUSTICE,
GRAY, and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS concur in this dissent.

