OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

aboard of her to represent him, and employed the captain and
four men to take care of the vessel, besides a night watchman.
The marshal's possession being a legal possession, he had the
right 'to take this course, and I do not find anything in the
testimony, or in the circumstances of the case, to warrant
the conclusion that the expenses of keeping such a vessel
while in the collector's or the marshal's possession were
extravagant.'
Whether these charges were proper or not, was a matter for
the courts below to determine in the exercise of their best
judgment, and, as the commissioner found that they were,
and both the District Court and the Court of Appeals affirmed his action in that regard, we are not disposed to disturb their finding, although the amount seems large.
The decree of the Court of Appeals must be reversed, and the
case remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.

In

re ALIX, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.

No. 15. Original.

Argued March 1, 1897.-Decided March 15, 1897.

Applying to the facts as stated in the opinion of the court the settled rules
in reference to writs of prohibition laid down in In re Rice, 155 U. S.

396, 402, it is held that a proper case is not made for awarding such a
writ.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.Horace L. Cheney (with whom was Mr.John F. Lewis
on the brief) for petitioner,
.Mr.
Curtis Tilton opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.

IN

RE ALIX, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

John L. Mills filed his libel in the District Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey on the fourteenth day of September, A.D. 1896, against the steamer
Allegheny and her cargo to recover salvage, and such proceedings were thereafter had thereon as resulted in a decree
in favor of the libellant, December 2,1896. An order for-the
sale of the steamer and cargo was entered December 15; a
motion to vacate this order was made on behalf of Gustave
Alix, master of the Belgian steamer Caucase, which was
denied December 21; the sale took place December 22, and
was confirmed December 30, 1896.
On December 26, 1896, Alix filed a petition of intervention
in said cause, alleging that he had filed a libel in admiralty
against the Allegheny, October 22, 1894, in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Delaware; that the
steamer had been attached by the marshal of that district in
December of that year; and that the District Court for the
District of New Jersey had no jurisdiction.
All the material allegations of the petition of intervention
were denied by the answer thereto,, and issues of fact were
raised on which the question of jurisdiction depended.
Thereupon, on January 11, 1897, a petition or suggestion
was filed by Alix in this court, seeking the issue of a writ of
prohibition to the judge of the District Court for the District
of New Jersey to restrain him from enforcing any of the
orders or decrees by hin theretofore made in the suit of said
Mills, or proceeding further therein. A rule to show cause
was granted, to which return has been duly made.
The settled rules in reference to the writ of prohibition were
thus laid down in In re Rice, Petitioner,155 U. S. 396, 402:
"Where it appears that the court whose action is sought to be
prohibited had clearly no jurisdiction of the cause o'riginally,
or of some collateral matter arising therein, a party who has
objected to the jurisdiction at the outset.and has no other
remedy is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter of
right. But where there is another legal remedy by appeal
or otherwise, or -where the question of the jurisdiction of the
court is doubtful, or depends on facts which are not made

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

matter of record, or where the application is made by a
stranger, the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary.
Nor is the granting of the writ obligatory where the case has
gone to sentence, and the want of jurisdiction does not appear
upon the face of the proceedings. Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S.
167, 173; In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472, 495."
Tested by these rules, we are clear that a proper case is not
made for awarding the writ of prohibition.
Writ denied.

ALLEN v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 64 1

Submitted January 19, 1897. -Decided

March 15, 1897.

After a person had been convicted in a state court of murder, he sued out a
writ of error from the Supreme Court of the State. On the day assigned
for its hearing it appeared from affidavits that the accused had escaped
from jail, and was at that time a fugitive from justice. The court there-

upon ordered thewrit of error dismissed, unless he should within sixty
days surrender himself or be recaptured, and when that time passed without either happening, the writ was dismissed.
He was afterwards
recaptured, and resentenced to death, whereupon he sued out this writ
of error, assigning as error that the dismissal of his writ of error by
the Supreme Court was a denial of due process of law. Held, that the
dismissal of the writ of error by the Supreme Court of the State was
justified by the abandonment of his case by the plaintiff in the writ.
THIS was a writ of error to review an order of the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia dismissing a writ of error from
that court which had been sued out to. reverse the conviction
of the plaintiff in error for the murder of one Charles Carr.
After defendant had been convicted and sentenced to death
by the Superior Court of Bibb County, he made a motion for
a new trial which was overruled, whereupon he sued out a
writ of error from the Supreme Court of the State, which was
assigned for hearing upon the 4th day of March, 1895. The
case having been called upon that day, it was made to appear
to the court by affidavits that Allen, after his conviction and

