OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

volved upon the company to show why the ship did not steer
away from the wreckageor slacken speed while passing through
it ; and this was not atiempted. In our opinion the steamship
company failed to show that the accident was one which
could not have been prevented by human effort, sagacity and
care, and we perceive no reasonable ground for disagreeing
with the judgment of the District Court upon the facts.
The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the decree of the District Court aiirmed, with costs.

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 219. Argued March 18, 19, 1897.-Decided April 5, 1897.

Grayson v. Lynch, 163 U. S. 468, followed to the point that the special finding
of facts referred to in the acts allowing parties to submit issues of fact
in civil cases to be tried and determined by the court, is not a mere report
of the evidence, but a finding of those ultimate facts, upon which the law
must determine the rights of the parties; and, if the finding of facts be
general, only such rulings of the court- in the progress of the 'trial can be
reviewed as are presented by a bill of exceptions, and in such case the
bill of exceptions cannot be used to bring up the whole testimony for
review any more than in a trial by jury.

AN action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri by the city of St.
Louis, seeking to recover from the Western Union Telegraph
Company the sum of five dollars per annum per pole for 1509
telegraph poles which the defendant maintained on the streets
of that city between July 1, 1884 and July 1, 1887. The case
was tried without a jury, and resulted, on June 17, 1889, in a
judgment in favor of the defendant, the court holding that the
burden imposed was a privilege or license tax, which the city
had nQ authority to impose. A writ of error was sued out

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TEL. COMPANY. 389
Opinion of the Court.

of this court, where it was held that the municipal charge in
question was not in the nature of a privilege or license tax, but
was a rental charge for the permanent and exclusive appropriation of those spaces in the streets which are occupied by
the telegraph poles. To the defence asserted by the telegraph
company that by ordinance the city had contracted with defendant to permit the erection of these poles in consideration
of the right of the city to occupy and use the top cross-arm of
any pole for its own telegraph purposes, free of charge, it was
replied by this court that there was nothing in the record to
show that any of the poles were erected under or by virtue of
the ordinance mentioned, and that, therefore, so far as the facts
appeared there was simply a temporary matter of street regulation, and one subject to change at the pleasure of the city.
But this court did not find it necessary to consider the matter
of this ground of defence at length, as, on the new trial awarded,
the facts in respect thereto could be more fully developed. It
was further claimed by the telegraph company that the ordinance charging five dollars a pole per annum was unreasonable.
But this court thought this question also should be passed for
further investigation on the new trial. 148 U. S. 92.
Thereafter, in January, 1894, the second trial was proceeded
with, a jury being waived, and resulted in a judgment in favor
of the defendant. The present writ of error was then sued
out from this court.
.Mr. W. C. Marshall for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. John,F. Dillon and XTr. Eeneious Smith for defendant
in error. Mr. George I. Fearons and Mr. Joseph Dickson

were on their brief.
MR. JusTIC SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We are urged in the argument for the plaintiff in error to
convict the Circuit Court of error in holding that a contract
existed between the city and telegraph company, which con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tract would be impaired by the ordinance imposing a charge
upon the company for maintaining its poles upon the streets,
and in holding that said ordinance was void because unreasonable and oppressive.
But, in the view that we take of this record, those questions
are not presented for our determination. The case was tried by
the court without a jury, and the record shows simply a general finding and a rendition of judgment in favor of the defendant. There is no special finding of facts, and therefore
inquiry in this court must be limited to the sufficiency of the
complaint, and the rulings, if any be preserved, on questions
of law arising during the trial. In such cases a bill of exceptions cannot be used to bring up the whole testimony for review
any more than in a trial by jury. Norris v. Jackson,, 9 Wall.
125, 128; _Lehnen v. Dickson, 148 U. S. 71.
When all the evidence had been adduced in the case the
plaintiff asked the court to declare the law to be as follows:
"The court declares the law to be that, under the pleadings
and evidence herein, ordinance No. 11,604" (which was the
ordinance which granted the company the right to maintain
its poles, upon condition that the city should occupy the top
cross-bar free of charge), "is not a contract between the plaintiff and defendant, but is simply a municipal regulation, which
the city has a right to change at any time it sees fit, and that
ordinance No. 12,783" (vhich was the ordinance imposing the
charge of five dollars per pole annually) "is a valid ordinance
regulation, and that the defendant is bound thereby."
"The court declares the law to be that upon the pleadings
and evidence in this case ordinance, No. 12,733 is a valid ordinance and is not void as being unreasonable, oppressive or
unjust."
"The court declares the law to be that upon the pleadings
and evidence in this case the plaintiff is entitled to recover
from the defendant the sum of $22,635, with interest thereon
at'the rate of six per cent from the 7th day of April, 1888."
The refusal of the court so io hold was excepted to and is
assigned for error. But these were rulings which involved
a determination of facts, and as those facts are not found for

TASIGI v. VAN DE CARR.
Syllabus.

us by a special finding by the court, and as the evidence which
developed the facts is not brought to our notice by exception
to its competency or relevancy, no questions of law are presented for our review.
It is true that an agreed statement of facts was stipulated
into the record of the case from the former trial; but additional evidence was introduced at this trial, and the prayers
were based on the entire evidence.
It was said in Grayson v. Lynch, 163 U. S. 468, 472, that
"this court has held in a series of cases that the special findings of facts, referred to in the acts allowing parties to submit
issues of fact in civil cases to be tried and determined bythe
court, is not a mere report of the evidence, but a finding of those
ultimate facts upon which the law must determine the iigbts
of the parties; and, if the findings of facts be general, only
such rulings of the court in the progress of the trial can be
reviewed as are presented by a bill of exceptions, and that in
such case a bill of exceptions cannot be used to bring up the
whole testimony for review any more than in a trial by jury."
Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125; Dirst v. JMorris, 14 Wall.
484; Boogher v. Insurance Co., 103 U. S. 90; Lehnen v. Dick-

son, 148 U. S. 72.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly
A4fflpmed.

IASIGI v. YAN DE CARI.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 746. Argued March 22, 1S9T.-Decided

April 5, 1S97.

lasigi, Consul General of Turkey in Boston, was arrested in New York,
February 14, 1897, on a warrant issued by a magistrate of the latter city,
to await the warrant of the governor of New York on the requisition of
the governor of Massachusetts for his surrender as a fugitive from
justice in that State, where he was charged with having committed
the crime of embezzlement. On the 18th of February he applied to the
District Court of the United States for a writ of habeas corpus, on the

