ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Syllabus.

within the State enhanced in value by intangible elements
outside the State. We considered, in dissenting in the Ohio
case, that this was a mere disguise, a distinction without a
difference, but the court held otherwise. In this case, by the
law in question, the mask is thrown off, and what we conceive to be logically the thin disguise under which the courts
of Ohio supported its statute is not asserted to exist, but the
Kentucky statute, in unambiguous and unmistakable language,
imposes the imperative duty upon the assessing board to assess
property both in and out of the State. That is to say, it
leaves nothing to implication or to evasion, but declares in
plain English that property in and out of the State shall
be assessed.

ADAMS EXPRESS

COMPANY v. OHIO
AUDITOR.

PETITION FOR REHEARING OF NO.
AND NOS. 469,

470 AND 471,

337 REPORTED
REPORTED 165

Received March 1, 189T. -Decided

STATE

165 U. s.

194;

U. s. 255.

March 15, 1891.

The members of the court who concurred in the above named judgments,
add a few observations to what has been already said.
It is well settled that no State can interfere with interstate commerce
through the imposition of a tax which is, in effect, a tax for the privilege of transacting such commerce; alnd also that such restriction upon
the power of a State does not in the least degree abridge its right to tax

at their full value all the instrumentalities used for such commerce.
The state statutes imposing taxes upon express companies which form the
subject of these suits grant no privilege of doing an express business, and
contemplate only the assessment and levy of taxes upon the properties
of the respective companies situated within.the respective States.
In the complex civilization of to-day a large portion of the wealth of a
community consists of intangible property, and there is nothing in the
nature of things or in the limitations of the Federal Constitution which

restrains a State from taxing such intangible property at its real value.
Whenever separate articles of tangible property are joined together, not
simply by a unity of ownership, but in a unity of use, there is not unfrequently developed a property, intangible though it may be, which in

value exceeds the aggregate of the value of the separate pieces of tangible property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.
Whatever property is worth for the purposes of income and sale, it is worth
for the purposes of taxation; and if the State comprehends all property
in its scheme of taxation, then the good will of an organized and established industry must be recognized as a thing of value, and taxable.
The capital stdck of a corporation and the shares in a joint stock company
represent not only its tangible property, but also its intangible property,
including therein all corporate franchises and all contracts, privileges
and good will of the concern; and when, as in the case of the express
company, the tangible property of the corporation is scattered through
different States by means of which its business is transacted in each, the
situs of this intangible property is not simply where its home office is, but
is distributed wherever its tangible property is located and its work is
done.
No fine spun theories about situs should interfere to enable these large corporations, whose business is of necessity carried on through many States,
from bearing in each State such burden of taxation as a fair distribution
of the actual value of their property among those States requires.

THis was an application for leave to file a petition for a rehearing of the several cases decided February 1, 1897, under the
title of Adams Express Company v. Ohio State Auditor, and reported 165 U. S. 194; and of American Express Company v.
Indiana, Adams Express Company v. Indiana, and United
States Express Company v. Indiana,decided February 1, 1897,
and reported 165 U. S. 255. The petition was as follows:
TO

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES:

Your petitioners, the appellants in the above entitled causes,
respectfully pray for'an order directing a reargument of the
said causes upon the following grounds:
First.- The total insufficiency of the argument offered by
the counsel for the appellants, due to a failure on their part
to anticipate the grounds which have really led to the decision
of the court.
Second. - The extreme importance and far reaching effect
of the decision which has been announced, as bearing upon
some of the most fundamental principles of constitutional
law.
Third.- Its momentous practical importance as affecting
existing interests, making it wholly impossible for the appellants to continue the express business of the country under
the system of taxation sanctioned by the decision, in view of

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

the natural tendencies of the different States to compel contributions from that business; tendencies against which the
law affords the most meagre, if any, protection.
Fourth.- The entire novelty of the questions discussed and
of the points necessarily determined by the judgment.
Fifth. -The fact that under the circumstances such failure
on the part of counsel is not without reasonable excuse.
Sixth. - That the appellants believe and are so advised by
their counsel, that a further consideration of the cases and a
consideration of reasons which have not heretofore, in consequence of the failure aforesaid, been stated, will lead this
honorable court to a decision in favor of the appellants.
Seventh. - We beg finally to suggest that upon the question
whether the Nichols law denies the appellants the equal protection of the laws, this court has erroneously assumed that
the taxing laws of Ohio classify property of different sorts for
purposes of valuation.
And your petitioners respectfully ask for an attentive consideration of the paper annexed hereto, in which an attempt
is made to more fully state and to support the grounds above
mentioned, with such brevity, however, as the nature of this
petition and the rule of the court requires, and they further
pray that the above entitled cases be set down for reargument
before the court upon some day by it to be appointed.
And as in duty bound will ever pray.
JAMES C. CARTER,
LAWRENCE MAXWELL, JR.,

Counsel for Appellants.
We certify that, in our opinion, the foregoing petition for
rehearing is well founded.
JAMES C. CARTER,
LAWRENCE MAXWELL, JR.,

Counsel for Appellants.
GROUNDS UPON WHICH THE REARGUMENT

IS ASKED.

First. The total insufficiency of the argument heretofore
offered by counsel for the appellants due to a failure on their

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

part to anticipate, in any adequate degree, the grounds which
have really led to the decision of the court.
It is important in the first place that the precise substance
and effect of the decision should be stated.
A review of the decisions of this court prior to the argument of the present cases and referred to in the opinion of
the court just pronounced as being, in point of authority, the
foundation of the decision is appended hereto in an appendix.
From this review it is believed that the following is a fair
and just statement of the propositions actually determined by
those decisions.
1. They rightly assume two principles as incontrovertible;
first, that, so far as concerns the taxation of property, a State
cannot tax, as against non-residents, any property except such
as has an actual situs within its limits; second, that no State
can tax or burden in any form the business of interstate
commerce.
2. That where a State assumes only to tax property actually
situated within its limits, it doeg not violate either of the above
principles if, in ascertaining the value, it adopts the ordinary
method of assessment; or, where the. ordinary method is not
practicable, some other fair and reasonable method.
3. That in the case of railroad and telegraph companies,
the ordinary method is not applicable, and the method of
taking into view the value of the whole, in order to ascertain
the value of the part, is fair and reasonable, at least so far as
to justify an apportionment of value according to mileage.
The step now taken by the present decision is to evolve a
new general proposition, nt declared or distinctly discussed
in any of the prior cases, that where there is what is called a
unity of use between several pieces of property not united
together by any physical tie, some of the pieces situated
within and some without the State, the value of the parts
within may be determined by the value of the whole, even
though the part within is physically separable, and is, as
separated, an ordinary thing, leaving an ordinary market
value based upon its capability of similar uses in a multitude of dferent businesses, differing in nothing, so far as the

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. 01110.
Petition for Rehearing.

ascertainment of value is concerned, from the thousand other
classes of chattels which form the usual subjects of taxation.
No precise explanation is given of just what this unity of
use, which involves such momentous consequences, may be;
but it is held that the property of express companies is of that
character.
This doctrine of the effect upon taxation of a unity of use
was not discussed in the prior cases, and was not touched by
appellants' counsel in the argument of these cases. The excuse
for this omission will hereafter be given. But the argument
which they thought abundantly sufficient to defeat the assessments consisted in pointing out that the property taxed was,
both physically, and in respect of ownership, capable of separation without altering its identity, or any of its properties, or
its value, as ordinarily understood, and would remain, after
separation, an ordinary subject of taxation, and that to'tax it
as it was taxed under the Ohio law, was in efect to tax property outside of the State, and also the business of interstate
commerce. This argument, which seems not to be disputed,
must be regarded as rendering the validity of the taxation, at
least, doubtful. The weighty dissent fairly entitles it to be so
considered.
The additional arguments and illustrations which they might
have adduced, but did not, are as follows:
1. The unity which makes the property so taxable is said
in the opinion of the court to be dependent, not upon _physical connection, or unity of ownership, but to be sufficiently
constituted by unity of use.
But suppose the Adams Express Company should, in Ohio,
hire all its horses, wagons, etc., as it easily might without
materially' affecting its business, and for the ordinary rates.
The same unity of use would continue. Would the owner
(the horses, wagons, etc., being worth $42,065) be properly
assessed for taxation at $533,095.80, although he had no
interest in the express business? If not, is there really any
unity of use which justifies these assessments?
2. Again let it be supposed that the company reduces the
amount of its 'horses, wagons, etc., to one half, not by hiring

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

from others, but by substituting human carriers, which it
easily might do without substantially affecting its receipts.
This would not alter the proportions of mileage, or gross
receipts, and therefore, although the amount of the property
purporting to be valued were reduced one half, the valuation
would be the same. And, supposing it hired all its horses,
wagons, etc., except one horse and wagon, owning no other personal property than thatthe valuation would still be unaffected.
3. If, however, it should hire all and own no personal
property whatever, it would then be.wholly relieved, for the
assessors would be left without a subject for assessment: That
is to say we have a scheme of assessing the value of the personal property owned by express companies in Ohio wholly
unaffected by the amount which is owned.
4. Perhaps it may be suggested that the assessment would,
in the case of hiring by the express companies, stand as an
assessment not of the property but of its use. But under this
law, certainly, nothing can be assessed except the value of
the property, and that against its owner. Let it be supposed,
however, that this were otherwise, or that the law were
changed so as to tax the use. Would the owners of the horses
and wagons still be justly taxable on them, and on what
amount? Or, would this property be exempt from further
taxation? There would seem fo be no just reason for not
taxing it against the real owner, and on the full value; and in
that case we would have a horse assessed at its true value,
$150 to the owner, and at about $4000 to the user.
5. And yet, in the case last mentioned, consistent reasoning
requires that the owner should be exempt, for if the plant
really be united it is inseparable,and if it remains in the unity
for purposes of taxation, it cannot at the same time be out of
it for the same purpose.
It may, indeed, be suggested that the case would be one,
after all, only of double taxation, and that this, however
flagitious, is not a subject of criticism in a Federal court. But
we beg to refer to the opinion of Mr. Justice Brewer, in
Cleveland, Cincinnati &c. Railway v. Bacekus, 154 U. S. 439,
repeatedly approved, and so recently as in the case of Western

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

Union Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, that it is only fair,
reasonable, ordinary, necessary taxation which is, in such
cases, a defence against the charge of violating both the
fundamental principles above referred to, which principles
are committed to the care of the Supreme Court.
6. But what shall be said of the pretence by Ohio that the
different parts of the plant are an inseparable unity when she
herself asserts that they are not, and, in this same law, actually
separates them for the purpose of taxation? If all the property of the company composes, as is said, this united inseparable plant, then, certainly, the real estate in Ohio is part of
it and an inseparable part ; but that State finds no difficulty
in separating it, and imposes on the company an entirely
separate assessment of $58,000 and upwards, on this account.
The real estate of the companies in Ohio is there assessed
like that of other owners. The law requires this assessed
value to be included in the return made by the companies to
the board of assessors, and adopts it and taxes it accordingly
and separately. It thus assumes and declares that the value
of this property, although as much a part of the unity as any
other, does not depend for its value, as it plainly does not,
upon the use to which it is put, but upon the same elements
which determine the value of all other lands and buildings
in the State.
7. The principal idea which underlies the opinion of the
court and is made to defend these extraordinary assessments
is that the value of property is dependent upon the use to
which it is put. We earnestly request the court to reconsider
-this proposition. It is an expression which has several times
been employed to support the doctrine declared in the railroad and telegraph cases, and in the sense there intended is
entirely just. In cases where the ordinary and nearly universal methods of ascertaining value cannot be employed, where
the thing to be valued has no market value, where it cannot
be indefinitely produced, where there is no supply and
demand, there is a necessity of resorting to other considerations, 'and theproductveness of the property, in other words,
the value of the use of it, is a natural,ordinary and proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

inquiry; for if the thing were to be sold just as it is, that
would be the inquiry of the intending purchaser. But this
method is the creature of necessity, and should be carefully
limited to that necessity. Can it be thought for a moment
that this proposition should be made general and the value
of property generally be held to be determined by the use
to which: it is put, and not at all by the fact that it is a coinmon subject of sale in the market, and has a distinct and
certain market value? What would be said of a system of
taxation of ordinary property wliolly within a State, which
should direct or permit an assessing board to displace the
ordinary tests of value, namely, what the things are bought
and sold for, and inquire, in each instance, into the profits
which the owners made who use them, and then impute
those profits to the particular thing, ir tking houses and lands,
horses and cattle, and all other chattels bear every variety
of value? Such a system would be in violation of fundamental notions of right, and would make fairness and equality
in taxation impossible. It would not be taxation, but arbitrary exaction. And yet this would be justified if the proposition under notice were sound.
If this is not sound as a general proposition, is it sound in
any cases, and why is it sound in them? It is sound in cases
where there is no better method, and sound because necessary.
We have referred to the opinion of the court in Cleveland,
Cincinnati &ie. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, drawn up
by Mr. Justice Brewer, as laying down the true reason (necessity) for the assessment of part of a railroad lying Nithin a
State, by a reference to the value of the whole. In that.
opinion there are, indeed, expressions to the effect that the
value of all property is determined by its use, as if this were
true as a broad and general proposition (p. 445); but did Mr.
Justice Brewer really mean this? Did he mean that this was
the ordinary test? Did he mean that where the common judgment of ifien, based upon all the elements of value, the uses to
which the property may be put, supply and demand, etc., had
established a value (for this is what is ordinarily meant by
value) that judgment could be disregarded,and an assessing

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

board be permitted to establish another value based on use
alone, or Aid he mean that in those cases where common judgment had never had occasion to fix a. value, and never had
done it, and where, consequently, a value so fixed was not
available, an assessing board was obliged to have recourse to
the original elements of value and make up, as best it could,
a judgment? We have only to recur to the other parts of the
opinion to see that the latter meaning was all that he intended.
8. What then is the precise error, as we humbly conceive
it to be, in the decision? It finds that in the railroad and
telegraph cases there was declared to be property actually
situated within the State and therefore taxable there. The
problem, as declared by the court, was to ascertain its cash
value. There was no market value. The subject of taxation
was not one capable of indefinite production, and not subject
to the operation of supply and demand. To separate it from
the use to which it was put would be to destroy it, and it
would have no value, except as a ruin, for its materials. But
yet it had a cash value which a purchaser would give for it,
and this in the urchaser's mind would depend on the use to
which it was put. Now in those cases the use to which the
thing was put was in inseparable unison with other things,
together constituting a whole, as much as a dwelling house
which happened to rest on both sides of a state line, and the
value of the whole was the material thing to be determined.
What the prior decisions establish is that where the value of
a thing proper to be taxed cannot be ascertained by ordinary
methods, its use may be referred to, and where its use is in
inseparable combination with a whole of which it forms a
part, the value of the whole may be referred to. What the
court now apparently construes that decision to be, is that
wherever the use of a thing in one State is in combination
with other things outside of the State as a whole, its value
for taxation may be determined by a reference to the value
of the whole, notwithstanding that there is no difficulty in
physical separation or in separation of ownership, and notwithstanding that the part within the State has the same full
and perfect value qfter separation which it possessed before
VoL. cLXV-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

combination. As to railroads and telegraphs, the parts within
one State cannot be sold, delivered and taken away by a
purchaser without destroying the value. Let it be imagined
that this could be done, and that the price were easily ascertainable, can it be thought that the method of assessment
adopted.in respect to them would have been sanctioned? It
was the impossibility of this which was the ground and the
sole ground of the decisions.
9. There is manifest from the face of the opinion an impression on the part of the court that there is equity and justice
in the methods sanctioned, and that the express companies are
seeking to avoid just contributions. This is most unfortunate.
It should not be assumed where the question is alone as to the
constitutionality of methods, for the records cannot contain
the fact§ upon which such an assumption can either be justified or repelled. The opinion contains this statement: "Considered as distinct subjects of taxation a horse is indeed a
horse; a wagon, a wagon; a safe, a safe; a pouch, a pouc4;
but how is it that $23,430 worth of horses, wagons, safes and
pouches produce $275,446 in a single year; or $28,438 worth
$350,519? The answer is obvious." It i not intended, we
assume, by this language to impute to the appellants an
assertion of the fact implied by those interrogatories. They
mean that in the opinion of the court the horses, wagons, etc.,
sought to be taxed, are the real sources from which the large
sums mentioned are derived; or that they may be justly so
regarded for the purpose of taxation. But ought not this to
be reconsidered and retracted? Some agency in producing
these sums (for they are gross receipts) will, of course, be
allowed to the physical labor of a large number of people,
mere laborers, who must be paid out of the receipts; something more to the skill and superior talents of principals and
subordinates who could earn, in various callings, large salaries,
and some of them very large, and who must also be paid
out of the receipts; something more to an accumulated fund
derived from past profits which furnishes the public with an
assurance of responsibility; something more to those habits of
patronage, commonly called good will; and a great deal to the

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

services performed by the railroad companies, for it is a matter
of common knowledge that the express companies are required
to pay nearly one half of their gross receipts to the railroad
companies for transportation. If fair and just minded men
should deliberately estimate in the best possible manner the
proportion to be awarded to each of these sources, would the
amount properly to be ascribed to these horses, wagons, etc.,
be one particle more than is represented by their actual value
as set forth in the returns? Certainly there is nothing perceived in these records which enables the court to say that
there is, and the appellants assert most confidently that there
is not.
There is evidently an impression that the contracts which
express companies have with the railroads are sources of large
profits. If this were the fact it is not perceived how it would
affect the value of horses and wagons used by the companies;
but the impression is erroneous. Railroad companies are as
.exacting as other persons in the compensation they demand
for their facilities, and just as exacting towards express companies as towards others.
But why is it that all these receipts are imputed to the
horses and other personal property? If one piece of property
can be selected, and the entire receipts be imputed to that,
why cannot another piece be as well taken? Why cannot
the real estate in Ohio be taken and the personal property be
dropped, just as well as to take the personal and leave out of
view the real estate ? The real estate in the case of both the
Adams and the American Company is of more than twice
the value of its personalty, and yet that is not supposed, in
the opinion, to contribute anything to the receipts.
10. It is said in the opinion that the appellants' returns of
their property "did not take into account contracts for transportation and accompanying facilities." We are not advised
whether the court means to suggest that such contracts constitute property which is subject to taxation by the States in
which the railroads are situated.
(a) We submit in the first place that the statutes do not
undertake to assess the railroad contracts of express companies

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

as property. They do not require the express companies to
return such contracts to the assessing board or direct the
board to estimate their value. The Supreme Court of Indiana
has so construed the statute of that State. (Indiana Record,
59), and its construction is binding upon this court.
There is nothing in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Ohio to indicate that it regards the railroad contracts of the
express companies as property to be taxed under the Nichols
law. On the contrary in Adams hpress Co. v. State, 44 N. E.
Rep. 506, 508, they say:
" What is known as the ' Nichols law,' held constitutional
in State v. Jones, 51 Ohio St. 492, imposes a tax upon property only, and does not impose any tax for the privilege of
exercising a franchise in this State."
(b) We submit that the express companies' railroad contracts are not property. They do not create in the express
companies any interest or estate in the railroads. They
simply reduce to writing, for the purposes of convenience and
certainty, the details of the service to be rendered by the
railroads and the compensation to be paid therefor. The only
property involved is the railroad, which belongs not to the
express companies but to the railroad company, and which is
taxed as such against the railroad company, and that too upon
the basis of its value as affected by its earnings from express
companies and other patrons.
The railroad facilities are no doubt valuable to the express
companies; indeed, they are as essential to the conduct of the
express business as they are to the conduct of business generally. But that does not make them property.
In Exchange Bank (f Columbus v. flines, 3 Ohio St. 1, the
Supreme Court of Ohio held that the franchise of a bank was
not property subject to taxation under the constitution of
Ohio. The court, speaking by Bartley, C. J., said:
"Does a corporate franchise, in sober truth and reality,
possess the essential qualities of property ? It is said that the
corporate franchise of a bank, conferring a peculiar legal
capacity, 'and the high function of making and circulating
a thing of great value.
paper money, is valuable -indeed,

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

But value is not the distinguishing attribute of property.
The right of suffrage is esteemed valuable; a public office,
with its emoluments, is valuable; a license to keep a tavern,
as formerly granted in this State, or a license to carry on any
special business, which is prohibited without a special grant of
authority from the Government, may be valuable; and a right
to either of these things may be asserted and maintained in
a court of justice, yet neither of them possess the essential
qualities which constitute property. Our right to the free use
and enjoyment of things which are in common, such as air,
light, water, etc., is valuable; and our right to the free use
of the public highways, and to many of the privileges and
advantages derived from the Government, may be valuable,
and may be maintained by legal process. Yet none of these
things come within the denomination of property. Those
things which constitute the subject-matter of private property,
are such as the owner may exercise exclusive dominion over,
in the use, enjoyment and disposal of them, without any
control or diminution, save only by the laws of the land.
1 Wend. Bla. 138. It is a fundamental principle, that 'property, considered as an exclusive right to things, contains not
only a right to use those things, but a right to dispose of them
either by exchanging them for other things, or by giving them
away to any other person, without any valuable consideration
in return, or even of throwing them away, which is usually
called relinquishing them.' Rutherford's Institutes; 20 Puffendorf, chap. 9, b. 7.
"It is said that capability of alienation or disposal, either
by sale, devise or abandonment, is an. essential incident to
property." 2 Kent Com. 317, 3 Ohio St. 7, 8.
In Exparte Gilchrist, 17 Q. B. D. 521, it was held that a
power of appointment under a deed or will is not the "property" of the donee. Fry, L. J., said:
"No two ideas can well be more distinct the one from the
other than those of 'property' and 'power.' This is a I power'
and nothing but a 'power.' A Ipower' is an individual personal capacity of the donee of the power to do something.
That it may result in property becoming vested in him is

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

immaterial;. the general nature of the power does not make
it property. The power of a person to appoint an estate to
himself is, in my judgment, no more his 'property,' than the
power to write a book or to sing a song. The exercise of any
one of those three powers may result in property, but in no
sense which the law recognizes are they 'property.'
In one
sense, no doubt they may be called the 'property' of the person in whom they are vested, because every special capacity
of a person may be said to be his property; but they are not
'property' within the meaning of the word as used in law.
Not only in law but in equity the distinction between ' power'
and ' property' is perfectly familiar, and I-am almost ashamed
to deal with such an elementary proposition."
(c) It has been said several times in opinions delivered in
this court that it is not within the power of a State to levy
a tax against a person engaged in interstate commerce for
the privilege of constructing or using an instrumentality of
interstate commerce. Cleveland, Cincinnati &c. Railway v.
Backus, 154 U. S.439, 445, 446. In Postal Telegraph Cable
Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 696, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller
said:
"Doubtless, no State could add to the taxation of property
according to the rule of ordinary property taxation, the
burden of a license or other tax on the privilege of using,
constructing or operating an instrumentality of interstate
or international commerce, or for the carrying on of such
commerce."
The express companies must use the railroads. For convenience they must reduce to writing the terms under which
the railroads perform services for them. But the States can
hardly be permitted to tax express companies for the privilege
of employing railroads to render service in interstate commerce; or tax as property contracts which create in the express companies no interest or estate in property. But it is
not necessary to enlarge upon this point, for the reason that,
according to the decision itself, the contract can only be
reached as being an inseparable part of the whole plant of
the company, of which the horses, wagons, etc., are another

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

inseparable part. If the notion of a unity falls, there can of
course be no ground upon which the contracts can be made to
add anything to the value of the property assessed in Ohio.
Account might just as well be taken of any othei part of the
property of the company as of the contracts referred to. If
the notion of unity is not mainta4nable, it follows necessarily,
that any attempt to add to the valuation of the horses and
wagons by a reference to anything except the intrinsic value
of those articles themselves, must fail.
11. It must certainly be admitted that apart of an assumed
unity cannot be valued by a reference to the value of the
whole as determined by its productive use, unless the whole
could be properly so assessed. It must therefore follow that
a State in taxing properties wholly within its limits may
properly tax things united in use as a whole, by reference to
the supposed productiveness of the whole. Would it be endurable to tax farms, cattle, hay, tools and all as a unit, by
a reference to productiveness, instead of by the ordinary
method ? And is an express company more of a unit than
ordinary farms?
12. Mr. Justice Brewer declared, in the opinion so often referred to by us, that if a taxable thing were situated within
the limits of a State and had a cash value, the fact that such
value was in part derived from the circumstance that it was
an instrumentality of interstate commerce was immaterial;
and he might with equal truth have added that if its value
were, in part; derived from its use in inseparable connection
with other property actually situated outside of the State, that
circumstance would be immaterial. In both instances it is
the value only of property actually situated within the State
which is taxed.
But let it be supposed that there are multitudes of the same
things, situated in the same State, all equally capable of being
used as the same instrumentalities,and all having an ascertained ordinary value, can an assessing board disregard this
value and recur to the original elements which are supposed
to make value, or to one of them, namely, use, and declare
another value, twenty, or a hundred times greater? If it can,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

we are out of the domain of law, and without a defence
against injustice and oppression.
The main defence against unlimited oppression in the name
of taxation lies wholly in the rule which limits assessors to
ordinary value. Even with that rule much oppression is
possible, for in many instances just men do not agree as to
the value when the ordinary rule is applied. But when the
rule is discarded there is scarcely a limit to the possible abuse.
It must be laid aside in some instances; but necessity alone
should be held sufficient to justify it.
13. True, indeed, use is one of the elements which give
property its value; for, unless a thing is useful, it has no
value; but it is not the actual use, but the capabilities of use
which constitute the effectual element. The value of horses
in Ohio, aside from the effect of supply and demand, comes
from the fact that they are capable of use for many different
purposes. If they were capable of use for but one purpose,
the demand would be infinitely smaller and the value less.
The value of horses in Ohio is affected, therefore, by their
capability of use in the express business, and every horse in
Ohio is equally capable of this use, and their market value is
based, "in part, on that fact. Are the horses actually employed in thisuse any more capable of it than others ?
The part situated in Ohio of a long line of railroad is
capable of no other use, and there are no other like pieces of
property situated in that State and capable of being applied
to a multitude of other uses, which can be substituted in place
of the piece actually used. If the case were otherwise such
pieces of railroad would have a market ivalue in Ohio. In
that case could such market value be set aside and the
roundabout and complicated method of ascertaining the
value of the whole line, involving, in effect, taxation of property situated outside of the State, and burdening interstate
commerce, be substituted in order to reach another and an
artificial value?
If the only use of horses, wagons, etc., in Ohio was in the
express business, and they had no other value except that dependent upon such use, then the authority of the railroadcases

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

might more justly be invoked, and the rules there sanctioned
applied.
14. If we were to put the doctrine of the Ohio scheme in
its scientific form, it would be as follows:
"It is true that the Ohio law authorizes tWe assessment only
of the horses, wagons, etc., of the express companies; yet it
identifies these by an intellectual fiction with an indivisible
part of what is imagined by another intellectual fiction as
the 'profit-producing plant' of the express companies; and,
therefore, the value of that indivisible part is properly ascertained by reference to the value of the whole."
But we beg the attention of. the court to the maxim that
intellectual fictions are to be resorted to only for the purposes
of justice, convenience, certainty and order in the law. Here
they are resorted to (we must not say for the intentional
purpose), but, certainly, with the necessary effect of bringing
about the very opposite results, which is substantially the
same thing.
And we beg. further to say that if the State of Ohio is
authorized, for the purposes of taxation, to identify by an
intellectual conception the horses, wagons, etc., with an indivisible part of an imagined thing, it must be for the reason
that such indivisible part of an imagined thing might itself
have been directly subjected to taxation. Can this be possible?
But in the case of railroads and telegraphs no intellectual
fictions are employed. The parts in one State are real
indivisible parts of real wholes.
15. The rules approved in the railroad and telegraph cases
are based upon necessity. The decision in these cases takes a
rule founded on necessity and follows it and extends it, as a
new point of departure, just as if it were founded on principle,
and applies it where no necessity exists.
We respectfully ask the court to consider the certain error
which results from such a method. A rule adopted from
necessity is, confessedly, susceptible of no other defence, and
therefore wrong. If it were defensible upon other grounds,
it would be put upon such grounds, and necessity would not
be resorted to. Hence, rules founded on necessity are never to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

be eWtended. If other cases of necessity arise, that necessity
will dictate its own rules.
Let us illustrate: The electric power works, in which many
millions have been invested at Niagara Falls, may largely
furnish their power by wires through Canada and Pennsylvania. Those States will have the right to tax the property
situated in their respective limits. There will be no market
or ordinary value to it. Consequently, the value must be
ascertained by reference to other things. The rule of mileage
will plainly not be applicable, nor that of gross receipts.
Necessity will force the adoption of the best practicable
method.
16. The sleeping car case stands upon necessity, but of a
very different sort from that of the railroad and telegraph
cases. The difficulty was occasioned by the circumstance that
the cars were constantly moving from State to State; they
had a physical situs in one as much as in another; but the
whole could not be said to have a situs in any one. Some
method of ascertaining the number and value of the cars in
Pennsylvania was necessary. The method adopted was assailed on the ground that capital stock was not taxable.
This objection was not good, for capital stock was held not
td be taxed, but the cars only. If the method had been
attacked on the true grounds it would have been perceived
that there was a better. way. The method adopted was
thought to be effectual to determine the average number
and value of cars used in Pennsylvania, and this seems not
to have been contested by the Pullman Company. The
better way would have been that suggested by Mr. Justice
Matthews in Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,127 U. S.
117, 123, cited and approved by the court in the Pullman
cases, to wit, to ascertain and appraise the average number
of cars habitually used in the State.
If the horses, wagons, etc., of the express companies, were
constantly on the move from one State to another, the decision in the Pullman case would have defended, not indeed
the methods actually adopted in the express cases, but some
method which would answer the necessities thus presented.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

17. Taxation is administrative business, and the system
must be workable; but the method sanctioned by the decision
is wholly unworkable. It is wholly repugnant to all other
parts of our systems of taxation, and would compel a revolution in them; and the oppression and injustice which would
follow would be unendurable.
(a) What is to be the effect on the ordinary methods of
assessment in the various States? If various pieces of property used in connection in different States are to be taxed as
part of a unity in some of the States, it must be in all, and
the separate value of the parts be disregarded, and real and
personal be alike included in the unity. The practice now
universal of taxing persons and corporations in the State of
domicil for all personal and real estate except such as is
physically situated elsewhere must be abandoned in the case
of things united in use.
(b)Each State is the judge of the size of the part over
which it has jurisdiction, and when the separate parts are
ascertained they may (they certainly will) amount to twice,
or thrice the whole, and, very probably, even more.
(c) Against this injustice and oppression the law affords no
defence. There is no common tribunal which can determine
the value of the whole and of the separate parts.
If an appeal be taken to this court, the answer will be "We
cannot review determinations of fact," and yet the whole
mischief lies in determinations of fact.
In one State the proportion will be reached by a comparison
of mileage; in another by a comparison of gross receipts.
Upon what principle can this court declare that one is wrong
and the other right?
(d) An avalanche of litigation impossible to be dealt with
will be the result. The victims will of course resort to this
court before submitting to absolute ruin. The exactions they
will show will shock the sense,.and yet no fraud can be
proved, and no rule invoked by which the exactions can be
reduced to just sums. And the necessities for relief will, as
they always do, subject just and established rules to a strain
under which they will break down.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

(e) It is taxation without representation, with all its evils.
The citizens of Ohio can compel each other to establish
justice and equality as between themselves. But what means
have the citizens of New York to resort to, to compel justice
at the hands of the citizens of Ohio?
Second. The extreme importance and far-reaching effect of
the decision which has been announced as a determination
upon some of the most fundamental principles of constitutional law.
1. The Ohio method of taxation, once sustained by this
court, will be followed in every State in which the express
companies carry on their operations, even in the State of
domicil, and as to such companies, at least, two practices,
one or the other of which have heretofore been universally
adopted, can no longer be followed, at least without the inevitable consequence of double taxation. These practices are
(1) that of taxing corporations in the State of their domicil
upon the value of their capital stock, excepting therefrom the
value of tangible property actually situated in another jurisdiction ; (2) that of taxing corporations in the State of their
domicil, upon the value of their property in that State without reference to capital stock, and assuming that all intangible
property has its situs for the purpose of taxation within such
State. We say that these practices must be abandoned or
double taxation will be the result. This is an understatement.
Treble or quadruple taxation will be the more probable conse.quence. And there will be no way of preventing this, for
the assessments in the several States (and there may be forty)
will be entirely independent of each other, with no common
supervising authority to correct their errors or reconcile their
inconsistencies, and there will be an irresistible temptation in
each State to compel the citizens of other States to pay as
large a share as possible of their own expenditures.
2. It seems also to follow that States favorably situated in
respect to interstate commerce, like New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Ohio and Indiana, will be easily enabled by an application of
this method to compel enormous contributions from the citizens of other States for the natural facilities which passage

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

through their territories affords; contributions, to which, in
an international point of view, no objection can be made, but
a surrender of which it was one of the prime objects of the
Constitution to compel in consideration of other advantages
afforded by union, and which power those States certainly did
surrender upon coming into the Union.
3. These consequences cannot be limited to the case of the
express companies, but must be applied in all instances where
companies, or even individuals, carry on business operations in
different States, and whose property can be justly said to be
blended together by what is called in the decision "a unity
of use."
4. The framers of the Constitution intended to create what
would be, in substance, one country; at the same time they
could not dispense with the existence of sovereign States..
And as a substitute for the ordinary remedies, as between
sovereign States, of war and retaliation (resorts no longer admissible) they provided the following safeguards: (1) First
and foremost, the fundamental principle that the property of
the citizen of one State could not be taxed by another unless it
had an actual situs within the latter. (2) By making it impossible that any State impose any burden, by way of taxation
or otherwise, upon any of the instrumentalities of interstate
commerce. (3) By declaring that "the citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States." These provisions, however, would be of
comparatively little value if their interpretation and enforcement were allowed to rest with the States themselves; and
therefore, another provision was added, namely-: (4) a power
to transfer, in certain cases, judicial proceedings in the States
to the courts of the United States, and in other cases to subject the decisions of the former to review by the latter.
These latter safeguards, quite efficient in many cases, would
be substantially powerless in relation to the matter of taxation.
Proceedings to assess property cannot be transferred, and indirect review is effective only when distinct principles of law'
are violated, whereas, in the determination of the value of
property, opinion and discretion are the effective elements and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

the exercise of these by the state officers, cannot be effectually
supervised, checked or restrained. If an attempt is made to
tax the property of a non-resident not having an actual situs
in the State, the safeguard is entirely effectual. If the ordinary rules limiting assessment to value, as value is ordinarily
understood, are applied, a protection is secured equal to that
which a citizen has in cases of the assessment Qf his property
in his own State. If these rules of valuation are allowed to be
disregarded or superseded by another as to which there is no
safeguard, a citizen of one State has no defence against the
exactions which may be imposed upon him by another. These
United States will cease, in many of the most important respects, to be one country, but will become independent nations.
And this, too, without the protection which independent nations have against each other in the mutual dread of retaliation of war.
Third. The immediate practical importance of the decision
in its direct effect upon the express companies.
In the deliberate judgment of those companies the stroke
is a crushing one. They are left at the mercy of the mere
caprice of assessing boards all over the country; for this
system of taxation establishes no standard or criterion by
which the amount of the assessment can be tested or restrained. It may be a half million, as in Ohio, or a million
and a half, as in Kentucky. This year it is a half a million
in Ohio, but she is not likely to be content with less than
Kentucky, and next year Ohio may make it two millions,
and the courts will be powerless to afford relief.
The express companies concede that it is not unjust, in
view of the sfnall amount of property which they use in their
business, as compared with the police protection which they
receive, to lay a tax upon them, in addition to a property tax.
Many States, including Ohio, levy such additional tax. Where
it is laid by a reasonably definite rule, such as, percentage upon
gross receipts from state business, the companies have the protection of law; but the evils of a system, such as the Nichols
law, which sets up no standard that can be tested by any rule,
are intolerable.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

1. That every State will resort to this new device, now
that it has been pronounced legal, must of course be regarded
as certain. A proper view of their own interests would require them to do so. The complaints of the citizens in each
State at the burdens of taxation imposed upon them, growing
louder and louder every year as that burden increases,' will
compel all assessing officers to impose as much of the burden
as possible upon those whose 'complaints they can afford to
disregard. What limit, indeed, can be placed upon the extent to which the people of a State will compel 'foreigners
to bear the burden of their expenditures, if they have neither
war nor judicial interference to apprehend?
The device of Ohio was immediately imitated by Indiana
and Kentucky even before its validity was tested. That other
States did not follow it is imputable only to the circumstance
that they believed this court would promptly condemn it.
But immediately upon announcement of this decision the
legislative machinery has been started; and while these words
are being written intelligence has come that bills for similar
schemes have been introduced into the legislatures of more
than one State.
Fourth. 'The novelty of the questions discussed, and of the
points necessarily determined by the judgment.
Upon this point no observations are needed.
It is believed
that no one will say that such a method of taxation has ever
heretofore been practised in any civilized country, in respect
to property having a market value and distinctly separable
without affecting that value from the business with which it
is connected.
Fifth. The fact that under the circumstances such failure
on the part of counsel is not without reasonable excuse.
The insufficiency of the argument of the appellants was
twofold: first, in not embracing a review of authorities which
it now appears by the opinion of the court are deemed decisive of the question; second, in not subjecting the theory
of a unity of -use to a thorough scrutiny, showing the grave
objections to it.
The excuse for the omission of a review of the prior

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

decisions is this: The cases of railroad and telegraph companies are, it will be agreed, to say the least, very different
from that of express companies. They are assimilated to it in
the opinion of the court on the ground that the property of the
latter constitutes a united profit-producing plant, an idea which,
it will be admitted, has never before been entertained by this
court. The extreme differences between the case of express
companies and the class of companies above mentioned would
alone have justified a hesitancy on the part of counsel in
bringing into the discussion the decisions in the latter class
of cases as being too remote. But, more than this, this court
had in substance declared them inapplicable. It had said, in
Pacific Expre88 Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 354: " On the
other hand, express companies, such as are defined by this
act, have no tangible property of any consequence subject to
taxation under the general laws. There is, therefore, no way
by which they can be taxed at all unless by a tax upon their
receipts for business transacted" ; that express companies
were "entirely dissimilar in vital respects, as regards the
purposes and policy of taxation, from railroad companies and
the like owning a large amount of tangible and other property subject to taxation under other and different laws and
upon other and different principles," and that "in the nature
of things, and irrespective of the definitive legislation in
question, they belong to different classes."
The opinion of the court disposes of Pacific Express Co. v.
Seibert by saying" that Mr. Justice Lamar's reference was "to
the legislation of the State of Missouri, and the scheme of
taxation under consideration here, was not involved in any
manner." .But the objection there made to that legislation
(which imposed a tax on the gross receipts of the express
company) was that the statute violated the Fourteenth Amendment in denying to express companies the equal protection of
the laws, because it did not impose. a similar tax upon other
persons, such as railroad companies, engaged in similar occupations. The answer of this court to that contention was, in
the "language of Mr. Justice Lamar, that express companies
were entirely dissimilar as regards the purposes and policy

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

of taxation from railroad companies," and that "1in the nature
of things, and irrespective of the definitive legislation of
Missouri, they belonged to different classes"; and because
they belonged to different classes, the court held that the
statute of Missouri, which imposed a tax upon them, that was
not laid on railroads, was not in contravention of the provision of the Federal Constitution, which vouchsafes the equal
protection of the laws.
It is now, however, declared by the court that the prior
decisions of the court in the railroad, telegraph and sleeping
car company cases do decide, in principle at least, the very point
raised in the present cases, and this opinion is reached without
the benefit to the appellants in the present case of a close
review of those decisions for the purpose of showing that such
is not the fact.
As to the omission to scrutinize the foundation of the theory
of a unity of use as a basis of taxation, the reason is the same.
It had never been stated, in terms, by this court. In the
Gloucester Ferry case it had been urged by the attorney
general of Pennsylvania under the plea of a 'Fhomogeneous
unit," 114 U. S. 196, 201, and repudiated by the court. The
railroad, telegraph and sleeping car decisions had made no
allusion to it. These were put on other grounds stated in the
review hereto annexed. The notion is the invention of the
Supreme Court of Ohio. How could counsel think it necessary
to discuss such a theory when it had been so plainly intimated
by this court that express companies, at least, could not be
dealt with in such a way ?
Sixth. The denial of the equal protection of the laws.
If property generally in the State of Ohio were assessed for
taxation on the basis of the Nichols law, the express companies would have no substantial ground of complaint, because,
in that event, the property of all other owners would be valued
for taxation on the same basis as that of express companies,
and while the amount of all assessments would be tremendously increased, the rate would be proportionately reduced,
and the proportion of taxes paid by the express companies
would not be increased. The practical injustice of the Nichols
VOL. cLxvi-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

law lies in the fact that the property of express companies is
valued for taxation according to the principles of that law,
while all other property in the State is valued without reference to the earnings of the owner or the profitableness of
the use to which he puts his property. Merchants, manufacturers, banks, brokers, newspapers, gas companies, street
railway companies, indeed all persons and corporations engaged in business in the State, except the companies covered
by the Nichols law, are taxed without the slightest reference
to the profits of their business. The market value of the
shares of a bank, for instance, may be greatly in excess of the
value of the bank's assets, owing to good will and a large
deposit account, but its shares are assessed upon the simple
basis of the cash value of the assets of the bank, after deducting its liabilities. The market value of the shares of a newspaper company may, on account of heavy circulation, largely
exceed the value of the assets of the company, but it is taxed
only upon the ordinary cash value of its printing presses
and other appliances. In assessing a merchant or manufacturer for taxation, no inquiry is made as to the profitableness
of his business, or if the business is conducted by a corporation, as* to the par or market value of its shares. The
assessment is laid upon the ordinary cash value of the tangible
assets, of the business.
All owners are not assessed by the same assessing officer or
board, but the basis of valuation is the same, and absolutely
without exception, except under the Nichols law. It was
for the purpose of pointing out this unjust discrimination of
the Nichols law that we printed in our Exhibit Book all
of the statutes of Ohio governing the taxation of personal
property.
We respectfully submit that the court has mistaken those
statutes in assuming in the language of the opinion that "the
poli~y pursued in Ohio is to classify property for taxation,"
and that "property of different sorts is classified under various
statutory provisions for the purpose of assessment and taxation." There is not and never has been, in the State of Ohio,
any classification affecting the method or basis valuation of

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

property for taxation except that introduced by the Nichols
la w.
The case of Wagoner v. Loomis, 37 Ohio St. 571, cited by
the court in support of its statement, involved the taxation of
shares of 4 national bank; but it will be seen by referring to
the opinion in that case, or to the statute providing for the
assessment of such shares, that they are estimated for purposes
of taxation, not at their par or market price, but by taking
the ordinary cash value of the bank's assets and dividing the
sum by the number of shares.
We have never meant to dispute the rule so often announced,
,and reaffirmed in the opinion, that the Fourteenth Amendment
does not prevent a just classification of property for taxation.
What we complain of is the adoption of a method of valuation
which applies to those covered by the Nichols law and to no
other owners, with the effect of increasing the assessments
against express companies twenty-fold.
A motion for a reargument does not require, and the
pressure under which it is made does not permit elaboration.
The above suggestions are but a part of those which may
properly be urged; but they are the principal ones. Are they
not enough to justify the indulgence of a further full opportunity to complete them by weaving them into a connected
argument such as the court has not yet heard, designed to
show that the scheme of taxation framed under these recent
laws is not consistent with the Constitution of the United
States ?
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES C.

CARTER,

LAWRENCE MAXWELL,

JR.,

Counsel.
REVIEW OF

SOME

OF THE

AUTHORITIES

RELIED

UPON

IN

THE

OPINION OF THE COURT.

Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18.
In this case the taxes challenged were levied under statutes
of Pennsylvania, imposing, in form, taxes on the capital stock
of corporations incorporated by the laws of Pennsylvania or

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

of any other State and doing business in Pennsylvania, to be
computed on a certain percentage of dividends made and
declared. It was treatedasbeing not a tax on capital stock,
but on property. The tax was made to depend partly upon
the value of the capital stock, and partly on the amount of
dividends, and the tax would, therefore, be dependent in part
up6n the value of the capital stock as ascertained in the
manner provided by the act. So far as appiears from the case
the only questions to be determined were those stated by Mr.
Justice Gray at the opening of his opinion, which was that of
the court. "Upon this writ of error whether this tax was in
accordance with the law of Pennsylvania is. a question on
which the decision of the highest court of the State is conclusive. The only question of which this court has jurisdiction is whether the tax was in violation of the clause of the
Constitution of the United States granting to Congress the
power to regulate commerce among the several States. The
plaintiff in error contends that its cars could be taxed only in
the State of Illinois, in which it was incorporated and had its
principal place of business." We understand by this that the
plaintiff in error took two grounds: First, that the taxation of
such railroad cars at all, when in actual use, was a burden upon
interstate commerce, and therefore void. Second, that if such
cars were subject to taxation at all they could be taxed only
where the corporation had its domicil, which was in Illinois.
The point involved in our express cases is, whether in assessing the value of the personal property of an express company,
which has confessedly an ascertainable market value, such
market value can be totally disregarded and superseded by
reference to another criterion which has no relation whatever
to value, as that term is commonly understood, and especially
by reference to the value of a right to prosecute interstate
commerce.
How these points can be supposed to have been determined
by the discussion and determination of the questions above
stated, as arising in the case of the Pullman Car Company
against Pennsylvania, is not easy to see. Upon perusing the
opinion in that case, it will be perceived that it begins by an

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

,emphatic statement and maintenance of the rule that property
is not subject to taxation by a State unless it has an actual
situs therein. It was manifest that the sleeping cars had an
actual situs outside of the place of domicil of the company
owning them, and therefore that they were justly taxable
outside of that State. The puzzle was that they had this
.actual situs as much in one of several other States as another.
Each might put in a claim that a situs was within its own
territory exclusively. Such exceptional cases of course justify
a resort to exceptional methods. The real problem was to
-ascertain how much of this sleeping car property was fairly
to be treated as having a situs in Pennsylvania. The actual
method which was sanctioned was not subjected to discussion.
What was insisted upon by the company was that no method
was allowable. If the horses, wagons, etc., used by the express companies in Ohio had been, in point of fact, used in a
similar manner in half a dozen different States, the decision in
the sleeping car case would have justified the adoption of
.some equitable method of ascertaining to how many of them
a situs in Ohio should be assigned. Upon the other point, as
to whether taxing these sleeping cars was imposing a burden
upon interstate commerce, there is nothing certainly opposed
to our contention. We have never asserted, in the remotest
degree, that the horses, wagons, harness, etc., of the express
-companies in Ohio are in any way relieved from taxation
because employed in interstate commerce.
If the sleeping cars, the taxation of which was the subject
of dispute in this case, had been entirely confined in their
operation and use to the State of Pennsylvania, and had
been proved to b e of the value of $10,000, and had, by a
reference to the capital stock of the Pullman Car Company
and the proportion of its lines within the State to that outside
of it, been assessed at the value of $200,000 each, and the
question had arisen as to the validity of such an assessment,
a decision sustaining the assessment would have been authority in this case. The appellants"counsel cannot help thinking.
that if such had been the question, the taxation sustained in
that case would have met a different fate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

There is indeed, in the opinion of the court, the following
statement: "The tax on the capital of the corporation, on
account of its property within the State, is in substance and
effect, a tax on that property," but this statement cannot
be regarded as any part of the decision, because no issue was
joined on it, nor was it subjected to any discussion whatever,
as will be seen by the observation which immediately follows,
namely: "This is not only admitted, but insisted on, by the
plaintiff in error," that is to say, the opinion deals with the
case of the plaintiff in error upon its own avowed assumptions.
It may be asked, however, if we admit the correctness of
the proposition thus stated by the court. We do admit it
fully in the sense in which it is declared in one of the two
cases cited which affirm it. Nothing is more common than
attempts by a State, where they are precluded by constitutional principles from taxing directly a particular item of
property, to reach the object indirectly by imposing a tax
upon some other thing which includes it or is dependent upon
it. Wherever such an attempt is made it ought to be denounced and defeated. The first case referred to by Mr. Justice Gray, Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196,
was one of that character. The State of Pennsylvania wanted
to tax a ferry boat belonging to a New Jersey corporation,
which was employed on a ferry across the Delaware River,
and which was, of course, from time to time, within the territory of Pennsylvania.
It could not, it was admitted, do
that directly. It sought to do it indirectly by attempting
to impose a tax upon the capital stock of the New Jersey Company. This court promptly declared, as it ought to have
done, that that was in substance and effect the same thing.
What better authority could be found than this to support
the contention of the appellants ? The State of Ohio had, in
every way which ingenuity could suggest, taxed everything
which it had a right to tax against these express companies.
It wanted to tax the capital stock. It knew that this could
not be done directly. It sought to accomplish the same thing
indirectly by imputing an utterly fictitious value to personal
property owned by that company in the State and subject to

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Petition for Rehearing.

taxation. What ought to be said in this case (a proposition
laid down by Mr. Justice Gray in the case of Pullman's
Car Company v. Pennsylvania, abundantly sustained by the
Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, and by many other
cases) is, that the State of Ohio, not having the right to tax
the capital stock of these express companies directly, must not
do it by the device which it has sought to employ.
It should hardly be necessary to say, however, that when
a court stigmatizes an attempt by a State to tax specific property within it which it has no right to tax, by saying that an
indirect effort to accomplish the same thing by an attempt
to tax capital stock cannot be permitted, it does not mean,
by any means, that the taxing of specific property and the
taxing of capital stock are so far identical that one may
properly be resorted to wherever the other can be employed.
Specific property belonging to a corporate body may have an
actual situs within a State, and therefore be the subject of taxation, but it by no means follows from this that the capital stock
or some portion of it, of such corporation, has such actual situs.
The case of Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217,
was, as the court declares in the beginning of its opinion,
"an excise tax upon the defendant corporation for the privilege of exercising its franchises within the State of Maine."
The subject-matter of the tax was confessedly one within
the taxing power of the State. There must necessarily,
therefore, be some allowable mode for ascertaining the value
of that privilege. The mode. adopted was by a reference
to comparatixe gross receipts. What error can be suggested
in such a method, especially when, as in Maine, it was the one
adopted as to domestic corporations of the same character?
how can such a case, which was not -that of a tax upon specific property, nor one in which the method was by a reference
to the value of capital stock, nor one in which the amount
of the tax was dependent upon the supposed value of the
subject taxed, nor one in which, if it were so dependent, the
subject taxed had a fixed value, be regarded as an authority
upon the questions in these express company cases?
In the case of Pittsburgh,Cincinnati&c. Railway v. Backus,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Petition for Rehearing.

154 U. S. 421, the tax assailed was one upon that part of the
railroad property situated within the State of Indiana. The
law under which the tax was imposed did not lay down any
rule, as in these express company cases, for the guidance of
the assessing board in determining value, but required it to
assess it at its "actual cash value." It did, however, require
statements which indicated that the board might and should
look to the value of the whole road in determining the value
of the part.
This mode of assessing property of a railroad company, undoubtedly within the State, was put in this case, as in a prior
case cited in the opinion, upon its true ground necessity. Are
these cases authority for another in Which the whole basis
of the decision is wanting?
The next case cited in the opinion of the court is that of the
Cleveland, Cincinnati&c. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439.
The special attention of the court is respectfully called to the
opinion. It was a case of taxation of railroad property under
the same law as in the case last above mentioned, but the
validity of the method was more emphatically assailed in
argument, and was considered by Mr. Justice Brewer with
great candor and deliberation. He was evidently not insensible to the abuses possible in the case of the imposition
by one State of taxes upon the property of citizens of another
State; but he properly recognizes the fact that it was right
and indeed necessary that such taxes should be imposed. He
upheld this method of assessment upon the obvious ground
that it was the true and naturalmethod which the individuals
would employ, and was indeed the only practicable method;
and-that either such method must be adopted or the property
be suffered to go exempt of taxation. He insisted that in the
case of such property "there is no pecuniary value outside
of that which results from such use"; and that it was impossible to disintegrate the value of that portion of the road
within Indiana. He affirmed the rule that no State must put
any burden in any way upon interstate commerce, but declared that "the taxation of property accordingto the ordinary
rule of property taxation" did not violate that rule.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. 0HI0.
Opinion of the Court.

We respectfully invite the attention of the court to the
whole of this opinion, and especially to so much of it as is on
pages 443-447. Is it possible to think that if in that case
it had appeared that there was "outside of the use to which
the property was put" a distinct and clearly ascertainable
pecuniary value, that the property could be separated from
the use to which it was put, and bear the same value which
it possessed before it was put to that use, that such property
was ordinarily taxed in a wholly different way, and that the
whole field of invasion of these rules which forbid the taxation
of interstate commerce or of property outside of the jurisdiction, would be thrown open if the ordinary method should
be displaced, the decision would not have been the other way?
The last case cited by the court is that of the Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1. The decision
was to the effect that the value of the easements, poles, wires,
etc., of a telegraph company within a State was subject to the
same rules of taxation as are applicable to the case of a railroad company. Nothing is perceived in this doctrine which
has any direct bearing. It is relevant however in one respect,
namely, that for the true defence of the principle of taxation
as applied to the cases of railroads, it quotes very largely from
the opinion of the court read by Mr. Justice Brewer, in the
case of Cleveland, Cincinnati&c. Railway v.Backus, 154 U. S.
439, above referred to, and adopts the reasoning laid down in
that opinion.
MR.JUSTIcE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

We have had before us at the present term several cases
involving the taxation of the property of express companies,
some coming from Ohio, some from Indiana, and one from
Kentucky; also a case from the latter State involving the
taxation of the property of the Henderson Bridge Company.
The Ohio and Indiana cases were decided on the 1st of February. (165 U. S. 194.) Petitions for rehearing of those cases
have been presented and are now before us for consideration.
The importance of the: questions involved, the close division

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in this court upon them, and the earnestness of counsel for the
express companies in their original arguments, as well as in
their briefs on this application, lead those of us who concurred in the judgments to add a few observations to what
has hitherto been said.
Again and again has this court affirmed the proposition that
no State can interfere with interstate commerce through the
imposition of a tax, by whatever name called, which is in effect
a tax for the privilege of transacting such commerce. And it
has as often affirmed that such restriction upon the power of a
State to interfere with interstate commerce does not in the least
degree abridge the right of a State to tax at their full value
all the instrumentalities used for such commerce.
Now the taxes imposed upon express companies by the
statutes of the three States of Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky
are certainly not in terms "privilege taxes." They purport
to be upon the property of the companies. They are, therefore, not, in form at least, subject to any of the denunciations
against privilege taxes which have so often come from this
court. The statutes grant no privilege of doing an express
business, charge nothing for doing such a business and contemplate only the assessment and levy of taxes upon the property of the express companies situated within the respective
States. And the only really substantial question is whether,
properly understood and administered, they subject to the
taxing power of the State property not within its territorial
limits. The burden of the contention of the express companies
is that they have within the limits of the State certain tangible property, such as horses, wagons, etc. ; that that tangible
property is their only property within the State; that it must
be valued as other like ,property, and upon such valuation
alone can taxes be assessed and levied against them.
But this contention practically ignores the existence of
intangible property, or at least denies its liability for taxation.
In the complex civilization of to-day a large portion of the
wealth of a community consists in intangible property, and
there is nothing in the nature of things or in the limitations
of the Federal Constitution which restrains a State from tax-

,ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

ing at its real valqe such intangible property. Take the simplest illustration : B, a solvent man, purchases from A certain
property, and gives to A his promise to pay, say, $100,000
therefor., Such promise may or may not be evidenced by a
note or other written instrument. The property conveyed to
B may or may not be of the value of $100,000. If there be
nothing in the way of fraud or misrepresentation to invalidate that transaction, there exists a legal promise on the part
of B to pay to A $100,000. That promise is a part of A's
property. It is something of value, something on which he
will receive cash, and which he can sell in the markets of the
community for cash. It is as certainly property, and property of value, as if it were a building or a steamboat, and is
as justly subject to taxation. It matters not in what this
intangible property consists -whether
privileges, corporate
franchises, contracts or obligations. It is enough that it is
property which though intangible exists, which has value,
produces income and passes current in the markets of the
world. To ignore this intangible property, or to hold that
it is not subject to taxation at its accepted value, is to eliminate from the reach of the taxing power a large portion of
the wealth of the country. Now, whenever separate articles
of tangible property are joined together, not simply by a
unity of ownership, but in a unity of use, there is not infrequently developed a property, intangible though it may be,
which in value exceeds the aggregate of the value of the
separate pieces of tangible property. Upon what theory of
substantial right can it be adjudged that the value of this
intangible property must be excluded from the tax lists, and
the only property placed thereon be the separate pieces of tangible property?
The first question to be considered therefore is whether
there is belonging to these express companies intangible
property - property differing from the tangible property a property created by either the combined use or the manner
of use of the separate articles of tangible property, or the
grant or acquisition of franchises or privileges, or all together.
To say that there can be no such intangible property, that it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

something of no value, is to insult the common intelligence of
every man., Take the Henderson Bridge Company's property,
the validity of the taxation of which is before us in another
case. The facts disclosed in that record show that the bridge
company owns a bridge over the Ohio, between the city of
Henderson in Kentucky and the Indiana shore, and also ten
miles of railroad in Indiana; that that tangible propertythat is, the bridge and railroad track-was assessed in the
States of Indiana and Kentucky at $1,277,695.54, such, therefore, being the adjudged value of the tangible property.
Thus the physical property could presumably be reproduced
by an expenditure of that sum, and if placed elsewhere on
the Ohio River, and without its connections or the business
passing over it or the franchises connected with it, might not
of itself be worth any more. As mere bridge and tracks, that
was its value. If the State's power of taxation is limited to
the tangible property, the company should only be taxed in
the two States for that sum, but it also appears that it, as a
corporation, had issued bonds to the amount of $2,000,000,
upon which it was paying interest; that it had a capital stock
of $1,000,000, and that the shares of that stock were worth
not less than $90 per share in the market. The owners, therefore, of that stock had property which for purposes of income
and purposes of sale was worth $2,900,000. What gives this
excess of value? Obviously the franchises, the privileges the
company possesses -its intangible property.
Now, it is a cardinal rule which should never be forgotten
that whatever property is worth for the purposes of income
and sale it is also worth for purposes of taxation. Suppose
such a bridge were entirely within the territorial limits of
a State, and it appeared that the bridge itself cost only
$1,277,000, could be reproduced for that sum, and yet it
was so situated with reference to railroad or other connections, so used by the travelling public, that it was worth to
the holders of it in the matter of income $2,900,000, could be
sold in the markets for that sum, was therefore in the eyes
of practical business men of the value of $2,900,000, can there
be any doubt of the State's power to assess it at that sum,

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

and to collect taxes from it upon that basis of value? Substance of right demands that whatever be the real value of
any property, that value may be accepted by the State foi
purpose of taxation, and this ought not to be evaded by any
mere confusion of words. Suppose an express company is
incorporated to transact business within the limits of a State,
and does business only within such limits, and for the purpose
of transacting that business purchases and holds a few thousands of dollars' worth of horses and wagons, and yet it so
meets the wants of the people dwelling in that State, so uses
the tangible property which it possesses, so transacts business
therein that its stock becomes in the markets of the State of
the actual cash value of hundreds of thousands of dollars. To
the owners thereof, for the purposes of income and sale, the
corporate property is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Does substance of right require that it shall pay taxes only
upon the thousands of dollars of tangible property which it
possesses? Accumulated wealth will laugh at the crudity of
taxing laws which reach only the one and ignore the other,
while they who own tangible property, not organized into
a single producing plant, will feel the injustice of a system
which so misplaces the burden of taxation.
A distinction must be noticed between the construction of
a state law and the power of a State. If a statute, properly construed, contemplates only the taxation of horses and
wagons, then those belonging to an express company can be
taxed at no higher value than those belonging to a farmer.
But if the State comprehends all property in its scheme of
taxation, then the good will of an organized and established
industry must be recognized as a thing of value. The capital
stock of a corporation and the shares in a joint stock company
represent not only the tangible property, but also the intangible, including therein all corporate franchises and all contracts, privileges and good will of the concern.
Now, the same reality of the value of its intangible property
exists when a company does not confine its work to the limits
of a single State. 'Take, for instance, the Adams Express
Company. According to the return filed by it with the audi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tor of the State of Ohio, as shown in the records of these cases,
its number of shares was $120,000, the market value of each
$140 to $150. Taking the smaller sum, gives the value of the
company's property taken as an entirety as $16,800,000. In
other words, it is worth that for the purposes of income to the
holders of the stock and for purposes of sale in the markets
of the land. But in the same return it shows that the value of
its real estate in Ohio was only $25,170; of real estate owned
outside of Ohio $3,005,157.52; or a total of $3,030,327.52;
the value of its personal property in Ohio $42,065; of personal property outside of Ohio $1,117,426.05; or a total of
$1,159,491.05, making a total valuation of its tangible property $4,189,818.57, and upon that basis it insists that taxes
shall be levied.. But what a mockery of substantial justice it
would be for a corporation, whose property is worth to its
stockholders for the purposes of income and sale $16,800,000,
to be adjudged liable for taxation upon only one fourth of
that amount. The value which property bears in the market,
the amount for which its stock can be bought and sold, is the
real value. Business men do not pay cash for property in
moonshine or dreamland. They buy and pay for that which is
of value in its power to produce income, or for purposes of sale.
It is suggested that the company may have bonds, stocks or
other investments which produce a part of the value of its
capital stock, and which have a special situs in other States
or are exempt from taxation. If it has, let it show the fact.
Courts deal with things as they are, and do not determine
rights upon mere possibilities. If half of the propertj of the
Adams Express Company, which by its own showing is worth
$16,000,000 and over, is invested in United States bonds, and
therefore exempt from taxation, or invested in any way outside the business of the company and so as to be subject to
purely local taxation, let that fact be disclosed, and then if
the State of Ohio attempts to include within its taxing power
such exempted property, or property of a different situs, it
will be time enough to consider and determine the rights of
the company. That if such facts exist they must be taken
into consideration by a State in its proceedings under such

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

tax laws as are here presented has been heretofore recognized and distinctly affirmed by this court. Pittsbzrgh, Cin:
cinnati &c. Rdilway Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 443;
Western Uhion Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 23;
Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 227. Presumably
all that a corporation has is used in the transaction of its business, and if it has accumulated assets which for any reason
affect the question of taxation, it should disclose them. It is
called upon to make return of its property, and if its return
admits that it is possessed of property of a certain value, and
does not disclose anything to show that any portion thereof is
not subject to taxation, it cannot complain if the State treats
its property as all taxable.
But where is the situs of this intangible property? The
Adams Express Company has, according to its showing, in
round numbers $4,000,000 of tangible. property scattered
through different States, and with that tangible property thus
scattered transacts its business. By the business which it transacts, by combining into a single use all these separate pieces
and articles of tangible property, by the contracts, franchises
and privileges which it has acquired and possesses, it has
created a corporate property of the actual value of $16,000,000.
Thus, according to its figures, this intangible property, its franchises, privileges, etc., is of the value of $12,000,000, and its
tangible property of only $4,000,000. Where is the situs of
this intangible property? Is it simply where its home office
is, where is found the central directing thought which controls
the workings of the great machine, or in the State which gave
it its corporate franchise; or is that intangible property distributed wherever its tangible property is located and its
work is done? Clearly, as we think, the latter. Every State.
within which it is transacting business and where it has its
property, more or less, may rightfully say that the $16,000,000
of value which it possesses springs not merely from the original
grant of corporate power by the State which incorporated it,
or from the mere ownership of the tangible property, but it
springs from the fact that that tangible property it has combined with contracts, franchises and privileges into a single

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

unit of property, and this State contributes to that aggregate
value not merely the separate value of such tangible property
as is within its limits, but its proportionate share of the value
of the entire property. That this is true is obvious from the
result that would follow if all the States other than the one
which created the corporation could and should withhold from
it the right to transact express business within their limits. It
might continue to own all its tangible property within each
of those States, but unable to transact the express business
within their limits, that $12,000,000 of value attributable to
its intangible property would shrivel to a mere trifle.
It may be true that the principal office of the corporation
is in New York, and that for certain purposes the maxim of
the common law was "rmobiliapersonamsequuntur," but that

maxim was never of universal application, and seldom interfered with the right of taxation.

Pullman'sPalace Car Co. v.

Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 22. It would certainly seem a
misapplication of the doctrine expressed in that maxim to
hold that by merely transferring its principal office across
the river to Jersey City the situs of $12,000,000 of intangible
property for purposes of taxation was changed from the State
of New York to that of New Jersey.
It is also true that a corporation is, for purposes of jurisdiction in the Federal courts, conclusively presumed to be a
citizen of the State which created it, but it does not follow
therefrom that its franchise to be is for all purposes to be regarded as confined to that State. For the transaction of its
business it goes into various States, and wherever it goes as a
corporation it carries with it that franchise to be. But the
franchise to be is only one of the franchises of a corporation.
The franchise to do is an independent franchise, or rather
a combination of franchises, embracing all things which the
corporation is given power to do, and this power to do is as
much a thing of value and a part of the intangible property
of the corporation as the franchise to be. Franchises to do go
wherever the work is done. The Southern Pacific Railway
Company is a corporation chartered by the State of Kentucky,
yet within the limits of that State it is said to have no tangible

ADAMS

EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

property and no office for the transaction of business. The
vast amount of tangible property which by lease or otherwise
it holds and operates, and all the franchises to do which it
exercises, exist and are exercised in the States and Territories
on the Pacific Slope. Do not these intangible propertiesthese franchises to do- exercised in connection with the tangible property which it holds, create a substantive matter of
taxation to be asserted by every State in which that tangible
property is found?
It is said that the views thus expressed open the door to
possibilities of gross injustice to these corporations, through
the conflicting action of the different States in matters of taxation. That may be so, and the courts may be called upon
to relieve against such abuses. But such possibilities do not
equal the wrong which sustaining the contention of the appellant would at once do. In the city of New York are located
the headquarters of a corporation, whose corporate property
is confessedly of the value of $16,000,000- a value which can
be realized by its stockholders at any moment they see fit.
Its tangible property and its business is scattered through many
States, all whose powers are invoked to protect its property
from trespass and secure it in the peaceful transaction of its
widely dispersed business. Yet because that tangible property is only $4,000,000 we are told that that is the limit of
the taxing power of these States. In other words, it asks
these States to protect property which to it is of the value of
$16,000,000, but is willing to pay taxes only on the basis of a
valuation of $4,000,000. The injustice of this speaks for itself.
In conclusion, let us say that this is eminently a practical
age; that courts must recognize things as they are and as
possessing a value which is accorded to them in the markets
of the world, and that no finespun theories about situs should
interfere to enable these large corporations, whose business is
carried on through many States, to escape from bearing in
each State such burden of taxation as a fair distribution of the
actual value of their property among those States requires.
The petition for a rehearing is
Denied.
voL. cLxvi-15

