CARTER v. RUDDY.
Statement of the Case.

Court of the State has so decided, and as its judgment was.
not based on any Federal question we have no jurisdi~tion to.
review it, and the writ of error is accordingly
Dismised.

CARTER v. RUDDY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 250. Submitted March 80, 1897. - Decided April 19, 1897.
Generally a patent is necessary for transfer of the legal title to public
lands.
It is well settled that an action of ejectment cannot be maintained In the
courts of the United States on a merely equitable title; and there Is
nothing in this case to exempt it from the rule that a patent Is necessary
to convey legal title.
The verdict of a jury determines questions of fact at Issue and this court
cannot review such' determination, or examine the testimony further
than to see that there was sufficient to justify the conclusions reached.
If the trial court gives the law fully and accurately, covering all the ground
necessary to advise the jury of the rights of the parties, it Is not necessary to instruct them in the very language of counsel.
When a tract of land is held as a separate and distinct tract, with boundaries designated so that they may be known, the possession by the
owner or his tenants of a part operates as a possession of all; but if the
tract is cut up into distinct lots, marked and treated as distinct tracts,
the claimant to all must show possession of all.

ON April 12, 1889, plb.ntiff in error commenced an action
of ejectment in the District Court of Shoshone County, Territory of Idaho, to recover of defendants the possession of a
portion of the north half of block 22 in the town of Wallace
in said county and Territory, and damages for the detention
thereof. After answers by the several defendants (Idaho
having been admitted into the Union as a State), the case was,
on application of the plaintiff, transferred to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Idaho. The petition
for the transfer alleged two grounds: one, diverse citizenship,
and the other, the existence of Federal questions, to wit, the
construction of the act of Congress, of date July 17, 1854,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

c. 83, atthorizing the issue and location of Sioux half-breed
scrip, 10 Stat. 304, the construction of sections 2387 to 2389,
Revised Statutes, relating to town sites, and the question
whether section 4556, Idaho Revised Statutes, 1887, is or is
not inconsistent with the laws of Congress governing the
possession and disposition of the public lands. A trial was
had before a jury, commencing on December 4, 1891, which
resulted in a verdict for the defendants. Upon this verdict
judgment was entered in their favor, which judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 15 U. S. App. 129.
Thereupon the case was brought here on error.
Mr. W. B. lieyburn, Mr. Albert Allen and Mr. John R.
JcBride for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edgar Wilson for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTWIE BREWER, after making, the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question arises on the plaintiff's claim of a legal
title by virtue of a location of Sioux half-breed scrip. It
appears that under the act of Congress a ceetificate, No. 430,
Letter C, for 80 acres, was issued to Walter Bourke. This
certificate, which was marked "not transferable or assignable,"
was dated November 24, 1856. On June 5, 1886, it was presented by W. R. Wallace at the local land office at Cceur
d'Alene, accompanied by an irrevocable power of attorney to
him executed by Walter Bourke and his wife, on February 27,
1883, and was located upon 80 acres, within which was the
property in dispute. When the location papers were transmitted to the General Land Office at Washington it was discovered that Bourke had on October 26, 1870, applied to the
department for a duplicate certificate, on a representation
that the original had been lost or destroyed; that such application had been sustained and a duplicate certificate issued;
that on March 9, 1880, he had located such duplicate on land
in Dakota, and received a patent tl refor. Upon the dis-

CARTER v. RUDDY.
Opinion of the Court.

closure of these facts the Commissioner of the General Land
Office cancelled this location in Idaho.
Now, the contention of plaintiff is that the location of this
scrip operated to transfer the legal title to Bourke, by deed
from whom the plaintiff claimed; that no patent was necessary, and that whatever of wrong Bourke may have committed, the legal title was in him and could only be divested
by a suit in equity brought by the United States. This scrip
is of the same character as that which was before this
court in Felix v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 317. While it is
true that the act of 1854 does not in terms provide for the
issue of a patent, and simply authorizes the location of the
scrip upon any public lands, yet the general rule is that a
patent is necessary for the transfer of the legal title to public
lands. In Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 436, 450, it was said:
"Congress has the sole power to declare the dignity and effect
of titles emanating from the United States; and the whole
legislation of the Federal government, in reference to the
public lands, declares the patent the superior and conclusive
evidence of legal title; until its issuance the fee is in the Government; by the patent, it passes to the grantee, and he is
entitled to recover the possession in ejectment."
See also
v.
Sherwood,
Langdon
516;
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498,
124 U. S. 74, 83, in which it was said: "It has been repeatedly decided by this court, that such certificates of the officers
of the land department do not convey the legal title of the
land to the holder of the certificate, but that they only evidence an equitable title, which may afterwards be perfected
by the issue of a patent, and that in the courts of the United
States such certificates are not sufficient to authorize a recovery in an action of ejectment." Hussman v. Durham, 165
U. S. 144.
It is true there are exceptions to this rule. One is specially
provided by statute, Rev. Stat. ยง 2449, which makes a certification to a State equivalent to a patent as a conveyance of
title. Again, as said in Wilcox v. Jackson (supra), "One class
of cases to be excepted is, where an act of Congress grants
land, as is sometimes done in words-of 'present grant." This

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

exception was recognized in Wisconsin Central Railroadv.
Price County, 133 U. S. 496; St. Paul & Pacific Railroad
v. Northern Pacific Railroad,139 U. S. 1; Deseret Salt Company v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241.
It is well settled that an action of ejectment cannot be
maintained in the courts of the United States on a merely
equitable title. See in addition to Langdon v. Sherwood
(supra); Johnson v. Christian,128 U. S. 374, 382, and cases
cited.
With reference to the power of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office to cancel an erroneous certificate of
location issued by local land officers see Cornelius v. K8essel,
128 U. S. 456; Knight v. U. S. Land Association, 142 U. S.
161, 177; Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372. It is, however, unnecessary to enter into any inquiry as to the power
of the land department to issue duplicate in lieu of original
scrip alleged to have been lost or destroyed, or even as to the
regularity of the proceedings by which this certificate of location was cancelled. It is enough that there is nothing to
exempt this case from the ordinary rule that a patent is necessary to convey the legal title; that the certificate of location
created at best but an equitable title, and that such a title is
not sufficient to sustain an action of ejectment in the Federal
courts.
We pass, therefore, to the other question which arises on
the contention of the plaintiff that he was in peaceable possession, holding under a claim of title, when the defendants
forcibly dispossessed him, and that such prior possession
under claim of title is sufficient to sustain thts action
against mere intruders. To an understanding of this question some further facts must be stated. In May, 1886, and
before the certificate of location, one Trask, a surveyor, surveyed this tract of 80 acres and laid it off into lots and blocks.
This was done at the instance of Wallace, who held the scrip
and power of attorney from Bourke, and who was proposing
to establish the town of Wallace. On this plat block 22 was,
laid off into 24 lots, 12 facing north and 12 south, with an
alley between them. On July 31, 1886, Bourke, by his at-

CARTER v. RUDDY.
Opinion of the Court.

torney Wallace, conveyed this block to plaintiff, the description in the deed being "block 22 (twenty-two) in said town
of Wallace, consisting of twenty-four town lots, each of
25 x 100 ft., and bounded on the north by Lockey St., on
the south by Bank St. and on the West by Sixth St., on the
east by Seventh St., the title of said land having been vested
in the party of the first part by location of half-breed Sioux
scrip issued to the said Walter Bourke, under an act of Congress of July 17th, A.D. 1854, in exchange for lands held by
said party of the first part at Lake Pepin, Minnesota, and now
located and duly recorded in the U..S. land office with fieldnotes of survey as provided by said act of Congress, at Cceur
d'Alene City, Idaho Territory."
At the time of the certificate of location and of the deed
the 80-acre tract was covered with a dense growth of timber,
and plaintiff, who put up a saw mill near by, proceeded, under
contract with Wallace, to cut down the trees and convert them
into lumber at his mill. In this way block 22 was substantially cleared of standing timber. Prior to February 19, 1889,
plaintiff had built two houses on the north half of the block.
These houses were on lots not in controversy in this action.
There was no fencing around the block, or any part of it.
Some board sidewalk had been placed by plaintiff in front
of some of the lots and on one side of the block, but it was
claimed by defendants that this was done in order to accommodate the travel passing between the depot and a hotel
belonging to the plaintiff some little distance from the lots
in controversy. There was a conflict in the testimony as to
the condition of the block other than the lots upon which the
houses were built, the defendants' testimony tending to show
that it was covered over with stumps, fallen timber and brush.
In May, 1888, proceedings were taken before the county commissioners of Shoshone County for the incorporation of the
town of Wallace. On February 19, 1889, there was a general
taking possession of vacant lots, done apparently with a view
to the acquiring of title under the town site acts of Congress;
and among other lots these in controversy were taken possession of and fenced by the several defendants. There was
VOL. CLxVi-32.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

other testimony bearing upon the question of the alleged
possession by plaintiff, but enough has been stated to outline the nature of the dispute between the parties. Of course,
the verdict of the jury determines the questions of fact adversely to the plaintiff, and it is not the province of this court
to review such determination or to examine the testimony
further than to see that there was sufficient, to justify the
conclusions reached by the jury.

We pass, therefore, to consider the charge of the court and
the instructions asked and refused. The plaintiff insists that
he entered into possession by virtue of the deed of July 31,
1886; that his actual possession of two lots by virtue of the
erection of houses thereon must be taken as constructive possession of the entire block, there being at the time no pretence
of any adverse possession, and that, therefore, he was entitled
to a peremptory instruction directing a verdict in his favor.
He cites in support of the extent of his possession Clarke v.
Courtney, 5 Pet. 319, 354, in which this court said: "Where
a person enters into land under a deed or title, his, possession
is construed to be coextensive with his deed or title; and,
although the deed or title may turn out to be defective or
void, yet the true owner will be deemed disseized to the
extent of the boundaries of such deed or title."
The court declined to give such peremptory instruction, but
charged as follows:
"It is the law that where a party holds a tract of land as a
separate and distinct tract and as one tract under a claim of
title as the boundaries of the tract are so designated, described
and marked that they may be known, his possession, either by
himself or tenants, of a part of the tract operates as possession
of all.
"If in this case you find that this half block was held by
plaintiff as one tract or parcel of land, and that it was so
marked out and designated in any way that defendants could
know its location and plaintiff had possession of any part of
it, such possession extended to and gave him possession of the
entire tract; but if, on the contrary, it was cut up into separate
and distinct lots and so marked upon the ground and was held

CARTER v. RUDDY.
Opinion of the Court.

and treated as distinct tracts, then he must show the possession of all thereof."
"11th. The next question is, what are the acts of ownership
and possession to which your attention must be directed? As
acts of ownership and possession the plaintiff claims he entered
upon the premises in good faith in pursuance of his deed; that
he thereupon proceeded to clear the land of its timber and to
prepare it for occupation; that he put sidewalks along the
sides of a portion of it; that he put them there as the owner
of the ground for its convenient use and to improve and enhance its value; that as such owner and claimant he caused
water to be conducted to some part of the premises; that he
paid taxes on the premises, and that he has always, since purchasing the ground, claimed to own it, and has openly and
publicly exercised control over it.
"If these assertions of plaintiff are true,
and these acts
were done by him or by his agents, you are instructed that
they constituted in him such a possessory title to the premises
in dispute as the Government will protect as against any
other person claiming by a similar or subsequent possessory
title.
"12th. On the contrary the defendants claim that the plaintiff's entry on the land was not in good faith to hold it; that
his object was to cut therefrom for milling purposes the timber thereon; that he did not clear the land; that the sidewalks were not constructed for the benefit of the property, or
because plaintiff owned it, but to benefit and add to the convenient use of other property he owned and business he was
operating in that vicinity; -that the water he had conducted
there was not to benefit the premises, but was a part of the
town system of water works, and that the plaintiff had, through
himself -or his agents, ceased to exercise control over the property, and that on the 19th day of February, 1889, it was vacant unoccupied lands of the United States, and that on such
day they peaceably entered the premises.
"If you find the claim of the defendants to be true then
their entry and possession was lawful."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not necessary for a court to give instructions in the
very language of counsel. It is enough if it gives the law
fully and accurately, and we think this charge not only stated
the law accurately, but also covered all the ground which was
necessary in order to fully advise the jury of the rights of the
plaintiff. While his deed was of block 22 it describes the block
as composed of 24 lots, and the plat upon which the deed
was based shows that there was an alley running through
the block and separating the 12 lots on the north from the
12 lots on the south. It was, therefore, not a single tract.
Further, plaintiff, in his complaint, thus described the property
for which he sued:
"Said half block being 300 feet long in an east and west,
and 100 feet wide in a north and south direction (except two
separate lots, pieces or parcels of land described on the plat of
said town as lots twelve (12) and twenty (20) in said block
twenty-two (22), each of said lots being 25 feet wide and 100
feet long)."
In respect to which the Court of Appeals, in its opinion,
well said:
"It may be observed that plaintiff alleged that the lots
which he claims to have been in possession of tenants were
'two separate lots, pieces and parcels of land' from the land
sued for. Can their possession, therefore, be the possession
of land from which they were ' separate'?"
We do not think it could have been properly held as matter of law that the plaintiff was in constructive possession
of this entire half block, and the rule of law in respect to such
constructive possession was in the charge we have quoted
correctly stated. In this respect, it may not be inappropriate
to notice two sections of the territorial statutes, 4040 and
4556, Idaho Rev. Stat. 1887, the first of which, referring to
property held for five years under a claim of title founded upon
a written instrument, declares that the property so included
in such instrument is deemed to have been adversely held,
"except that, when it consists of a tract divided into lots, the
possession of one lot is not deemed a possession of any other
lot of the same tract"; and the second provides that in an

ALLEN v. CULP.
Statement of the Case.

action for the possession of "a lot or parcel of land, situated
in any city, town or village on the public lands," the plaintiff
is required to prove an actual enclosure of the whole lot, or
the erection of a dwelling house or other substantial building
on some part thereof, and adds that "proof of such building,
with or without enclosure, is sufficient to hold such lot or
parcel to the bounds thereof, as indicated by the plat of such
city, town or village, if there be one, and if there be no such
plat, then to hold the same, with its full width and extent
from and including such building to the nearest adjacent
street, where the intervening space has not been previously
claimed by adverse possession."
As to the circumstances to be considered in determining the
question of possession other than the instrument under which
the title is claimed, we think the court, in paragraphs 11 and
12, heretofore quoted, stated the law in such a way as to give
the plaintiff no ground of objection, and as upon these instructions the jury found the facts adversely to the plaintiff we
must accept that finding as conclusive. We see no error in
the record, and the judgment of the Court of Appeal is
Affirmed.

ALLEN v. CULP.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS, No. 4, FOR THE COUNTY
OF PHILADELPHIA, STATE OF PENXSYLVANIA.
No. 252. Argued and submitted March 30, 1897.
-Decided

April190, 1897.

When letters patent are surrendered for the purpose of reissue, they continue valid until the reissue takes place, and if the reissue is refused they
stand as if no application had been made.
Whether, if the reissue be void, the patentee may fall back on his original
patent, is not decided.

THIS wa an action originally instituted in the Court of
Common Pleas for the County of Philadelphia, by the defendant in error, Andrew J. Culp, against Alonzo W. Allen, to
recover half of the profits made by the defendant from a cer-

