HOOE v. JAMIESON.
Syllabus.

John L. Hatch was appointed United States inspector of
immigration at that port, who, on May 16, made the inspection and examination required by the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 551, which he reported to the collector, and, on May 18, he
intervened in opposition to the writ of habeas corpus
8, stating
his doings and insisting that under the act his finding and
decision were reviewable by the superintendent of immigration and the Secretary of the Treasury only. The Circuit
Court sustained the intervention and remanded petitioner,
and its order was affirmed on appeal by this court. It was
said by Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion, that: "A
writ of habeas corpus is not like an action to recover damages
for an unlawful arrest or commitment, but its object is to
ascertain whether the prisoner can legally be detained in
custody; and if sufficient ground for his detention by the government is shown, he is not to be discharged for defects in the
original arrest or commitment."
The proceeding here was a state proceeding in aid of a
prosecution for the violation of state laws, and under such
circumstances the courts of the United States may exercise a
discretion in determining the question of discharge. Cook v.
hlart, 146 U. S. 183.
And we think the case falls within the principle of the rule
laid down in- NishiniuraEkia v. United States.
Order aJfirmed.

HOOE v. JAMIESON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
WESTERN

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Submitted March 1,1897. -Decided
No. 374..

April 5, 1597.

A citizen of the District of Columbia cannot maintain an action against a
citizen of Wisconsin, on the ground of diverse citizenship, in a Circuit
Court of the United States In that State; even though a competent person be joined with him as co-plaintiff.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the .Court.

-Mr. A. R1. Bushnell for plaintiffs in error.
_Mr. S. S. Barney for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JusrICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Wisconsin, by the complaint in which plaintiffs in error alleged
that they resided in and were citizens of the city of Washington, D. C., and that defendants all resided in and were citizens
of the State of Wisconsin. Defendants moved to dismiss the
action on the ground that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction as the controversy was not between citizens of different States. The Circuit Court orderbd that the action be
dismissed unless plaintiffs within five days thereafter should
so amend their complaint as to allege the necessary jurisdictional facts. Plaintiffs then moved for leave to amend their
complaint by averring that three of them were when the suit
was commenced, and continued to be, citizens of the District
of Columbia, but that one of them was a citizen of the State
of Minnesota, and that each was the owner of an undivided
one fourth of the lands and premises described in the complaint, and that they severally claimed damages and demanded
judgment. This motion was denied and the action dismissed.
Plaintiffs sued out this writ of error under the act of March 3,
1891, c; 517, ยง 5, and the Circuit Court certified to this court
these questions of jurisdiction :
"First. Whether or not said complaint sets forth any cause
of action in which there is a controversy between citizens
of different States, so as to give said Circuit Court jurisdiction
thereof :
"Second. Whether or not said complaint as so proposed
to be amended would, if so amended, set forth any cause of
action in which there is a controversy between citizens of different States, so as to give said Circuit Court jurisdiction
thereof."
The judicial power extends under the Constitution to con-

HOOE v. JAMIESON.
Opinion of the Court.

troversies between citizens of different States, and the Judiciary Act of 1789 provided,as does the act of March 3, 1887, as
corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866,
that the Circuit Courts of the United States should have
original cognizance of all suits of a civil nature at common
law or in equity in which there should be a controversy
between citizens of different States.
We see no reason for arriving at any other conclusion than
that announced by Chief Justice Marshall in Hepburn v.
_Elzey, 2 Cranch, 445, February term, 1805, "that, the members of the American confederacy only are the States contemplated in the Constitution" ; that the District of Columbia
is not a State within the meaning of that instrument; and
that the courts of the United States have no jurisdiction of
cases between citizens of the District of Columbia and citizens
of a State.
In Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch, 267, it was held that
if there be two or more joint plaintiffs and two or more joint
defendants, each of the plaintiffs must be capable of suing
each of the defendants in the courts of the United States in
order to support the jurisdiction; and in Sinith v. Lyon, 133
U. S. 315, Strawbridge v. Curtiss was followed, and it was
decided that under the acts of 1887 and 1888 the Circuit
Court has not jurisdiction, on the ground of diverse citizenship, if there are two plaintiffs to the action who are citizens
of and residents in different States and the defendant is a
citizen of and resident in a third State, and the action is
brought in the State in which one of the plaintiffs resides.
New Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91, was an action in
ejectment brought by two plaintiffs claiming as joint heirs,
and it appeared that one of them was a citizen of the State of
Kentucky, and that the other was a citizen of the Territory
of Mississippi. It was held that jurisdiction could not be
maintained, and Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion
of the court, said: "Gabriel Winter, then, being a citizen of
the Mississippi Territory, was incapable of maintaining a suit
alone in the District Court of Louisiana. Is his case mended
by being associated with others who are capable of suing ln

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that court? In the case of Strawbridge v. Curtiss, it was
decided, that where a joint interest is prosecuted, the jurisdiction cannot be sustained, unless each individual be entitled
to claim that jurisdiction. In this case it has been doubted,
whether the parties might elect to sue jointly or severally.
tIowever this may be, having elected to sue jointly, the
court is incapable of distinguishing their case, so far as respects jurisdiction, from one in which they were compelled to
unite."
In PeninsularIron Co. v. Stone, 121 U. S. 631, the interests
of the parties being separate and distinct, but depending on
one contract, plaintiffs elected to sue on the common obligation, and the case was dismissed under the rule in New Orleans
v. Winter.
In Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, 287, which was a bill
for partition, it appeared that some of the defendants were citizens of the District of Columbia and some of them citizens
of Maryland, and, in dismissing the case for want of jurisdiction, the court, through Mr. Justice Miller, said: "In the
case of Hepburn v. Ellzey, it was decided by this court, speaking through Marshall, C. J., that a citizen of the District of
Columbia was not a citizen of a State within the meaning of
the Judiciary Act, and could not sue in a Federal court. The
same principle was asserted in reference to a citizen of a Territory, in the case of New Orleans v. Winter, and it was there
held to defeat the jurisdiction, although the citizen of the
Territory of Mississippi was joined with a person who, in
suing alone, could have maintained the suit. These rulings
have never been disturbed, but the principle asserted has been
acted upon ever since by the courts when the point has arisen."
Many other decisions are to the same effect, and in the late
case of -Merchants'Cotton Press Co. v. Insurance Co., 151 U. S.
368, 384, the rule in lAew Orleans v. Winter was applied and
it was held that "the voluntary joinder of the parties has the
same effect for purposes of jurisdiction as if they had been
compelled to unite."
In the case at bar no application was made for leave to
discontinue as to the three plaintiff,, vho were citizens of the

MARTIN v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD.

399

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

District of Columbia, and to amend the complaint and proceed with the cause in favor of that one of the plaintiffs
alleged to be a citizen of Minnesota. Jurisdiction of the
case as to four plaintiffs could not be maintained on the
theory that when the trial terminated it might be retained as
to one. The Circuit Court was right and its judgment is
Afflrmed.

HooE v. WERNER.

No. 373.

Submitted with No. 374, above,

and on the.same briefs.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The only difference between this case and
that just decided is that the proposed amendment was allowed and
the action then dismissed for want of jurisdiction. For the reasons
above given, this case must take the same course as that.
Judgment affrmed.

MARTIN v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 170. Submitted January 25,1897. -Decided

April 5, 1897.

The plaintiff in error was in the employment of the defendant in error as a
common laborer. While on a hand car on the road, proceeding to his
place of work, he was run into by a train, and seriously. injured. It was
claimed that the collision was caused by carelessness and negligence on
the part of 'other employts of the company, roadmaster, foreman of
the gang of laborers, conductor, etc. Held, thatthe co-emplqy6s whose
negligence was alleged to have caused the injury were fellow-servants of
the plaintiff, and hence that the defendant was not liable for the injuries
caused by that negligence.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Neill 0. Field for plaintiff in error.

