THE MAJESTIC.
Syllabus.

THE MAJESTIC. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 168. Argued January 20, 21, 1897. - Decided March 29, 1897.

By printed contract the Oceanic steamship company agreed with the
libellants, in consideration of the passage money paid, to land them
with their luggage in New York. The contract ticket had attached to
it a "notice to passengers," printed in fine type, that the contract
was made subject to " conditions," among which were the following:
" 3. Neither the Shipowner nor the Passage Broker or Agent is responsible for loss of or injury to the Passenger or his luggage or personal
effects, or delay on the voyage, arising from steam, latent defects in the
Steamer, her machinery, gear or fittings, or from act of God, Queen's
enemies, perils of the sea or Tivers, restraints of princes, rulers and
peoples, barratry or negligence in navigation, of the Steamer or of any
other vessel: 4. Neither the Shipowner nor the Passage Broker or
Agent is in any case liable for loss of or injury to or delay in delivery
of luggage or personal effects of the Passenger beyond the amount of
£10, uhless the value of the same in excess of that sum be declared at or
before the issue of this Contract Ticket, and freight at current rates for
every kind of property (except pictures, statuary and valuables of any
description upon which on per cent will be charged) is paid." " 7. All
questions arising on this Ticket shall be decided according to English
law, with reference to which this Contract is made." The ticket was
purchased for libellants by their father, was not examined by him, was
not examined by them, and neither he nor they knew of these conditions,
nor was their attention called to them. On the voyage the luggage of
libellants was flooded with water, which came in through a broken porthole, from causes described by the court in its statement of facts and
opinion, and which are held not to be an "act of God," necessarily exempting the company from liability. Held,
(1) That by the rule in England the "conditions" were notices, and
nothing more; and that it could not be held as matter of law that,
whether they were regulations for ihe conduct of business, or
limitations upon common law obligations, they constituted any
part of the contract;
(2) That the rule was not otherwise in this country;
(3) That on the evidence the court cannot ednclude that the libellants
should be held bound, as matter of fact, by any of the alleged
1 The docket title of this case is Oceanic Steam Navigation Company,
Claimant &c. Appellant v. Grace Howard Potter et at.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
conditions or limitations, as they were not included in the contract
proper, in terms or by reference.
The "act of God" which would exempt from liability under such circumstances, is limited to causes in which no man has any agency whatever.
LIBELLANTS,

the Misses Potter and their maid, were passen-

gers on the steamship Majestic, which sailed from Liverpool
on January 20, 1892, and arrived at New York on the 28th.
On disembarking, the contents of their trunks were found
badly damaged by sea water, and this libel was filed in the
District Court for the Southern District of New York to recover for the loss.
The libel alleged that the Oceanic Steam Navigation
Company, owner of the Majestic, for a valuable consideration
agreed to carry and transport libellants, with their personal
baggage, to New York; and charged that the damage to the
baggage was caused by negligence and want of proper care.
The answer admitted the delivery of the baggage on board in
good order, and its condition on arrival at New York, but put
in issue the allegations of negligence and want of proper care.
It set up certain stipulations as contained in the ticket under
which libellants took passage, by which it was averred the
ship was discharged of liability, or, in any case, was not liable
for any injury beyond the amount of ten pounds; and it finally
alleged that the injury, if any, was caused by the act of God
or the perils of the sea, and was in nowise caused or contributed to by the neglect or misconduct of any of its agents or
servants.
The so called ticket issued to the three libellants, omitting
numbering and the display headings, was as follows:
" Cabin Passenger's Contract Ticket.
These Directions and the Notices to Passengers below, form part of, and must
appear on, each Contract Ticket.
1. A Contract Ticket in this Form must be given to every Cabin Passenger engaging a Passage in a Passenger Ship from the United Kingdom to any place out
of Europe, and not being within the Mediterranean Sea, under a penalty not
exceeding £50.
2. Unless the Passengers are to have a free Table, the Victualling Scale for the
Voyage must be appended to the Contract Ticket.
3. All the Blanks must be correctly and legibly filled in, and the Ticket must be
legibly signed with the Christian Names and Surname, and Address in full of
the Party issuing the same.

THE MAJESTIC.
Statement of the Case.
4. The Day of the Month on which the Ship is to sail must be inserted in Words
and not in Figures only.
5. When once issued, this Ticket must not be withdrawn from the passenger, nor
any alteration or erasure made in it unless with his consent.

British Steam-rship

.t

of

4,244. Tons register,to

sail from LIVERPOOL, for NEW YORK, on the
day of

9 mtUt't

Cw&YLC&C

1892.
No. of Persons.

NAMES.

Adults
above

IN CONSIDERATION of the

sum of R _12 10/ I hereby
Children. agree with the Person named
12 Years in the margin hereof that

12 Years. & under. such Person shall be provided with First Class Cabin
Passage in the above-named
British Steam-ship, to sail
from the Port of Liverpool
Miss GRACE HOWARD POTTER.
a
for the Port of NEW YORK,
in North America, with not
Miss B. HOWARD POTTER
a
less than Twenty. Cubical
Feet for Luggage for each
& maid.
Person, and that such Person shall be victualled as
First Class Cabin Passenger
during the voyage, and the
time of detention at any
place before its termination;
and I further engage to land
the Person aforesaid with
their Luggage, at the last
mentioned Port, free of any
Charge beyond the Passage
Money. aforesaid;
and I
hereby acknowledge to have
received the sum of £ paid
in _full Payment of such
Passage Money.
For and on behalf of the
OCEANIC STEAM NAVIGATION

COMPANY,

LIMITED, OF GREAT BRITAIN,

THOMAS HENRY ISMAY,

Total No. of Persons.

Three.

Per R.

MARTCKELLELL.

Liverpool, 16th Jan'y, 1892.

Deposit...2Balance..- -.-- to be paid at the office, 10, Water Street, Liverpool, one day before
the above date for sailing.
Total.....£ full
NOTICE TO CABIN PASSENGERS.
1.-If Cabin Passengers, through no default of their own, fail -to obtain
sage in the Ship, and on the day named in this Contract Ticket, they may
Redress for Breach of Contract by summary Process, under the 73d Section
Passengers' Act, 1855.
2. - Cabin Passengers must produce, on Demand, their Contract tickets

a pasobtain
of the
to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
Government Emigration Officer under a Penalty not exceeding £10 This Ticket
should therefore be preserved, and kept in readiness to be produced on board the
Ship. N.B. - This Contract Ticket is exempt from Stamp Duty.
CAUTION. - To prevent the possibility of robberies occurring before the steamer
leaves the wharf, Passengers are requested to be careful to leave their baggage in
charge of the Company's Servants only, and to give money, jewellery and other
valuables it! care of the Purser, who will issue a receipt and deposit the articles in
the Ship's Safe. This Ticket is only available for the date fUr which issued.

LSEE BACK.

[On the back :]
"NOTICE

TO PASSENGERS.

This contract is made subject to the following conditions::1. The Steamer may tow and assist vessels in all situations, put back or into
any port, and deviate from the direct and customary course.
2. If the Steamer shall be prevented by any cause from sailing or-proceeding in
the ordinary course the Passenger may, at the Shipowner's expense, be transhipped
to any other steamer bound for the port of destination.
3. Neither the Shipowner nor the Passage Broker or Agent is responsible for
loss of or injury to the Passenger or his luggage or personal effects, or delay on the
voyage, arising from steam, latent defects in the Steamer, her machinery, gear, or
fittings, or from act of God, Queen's enemies, perils of the sea or rivers, restraints
of princes, rulers, and peoples, barratry or negligence in navigation, of the Steamer
or of any other vessel.
4. Neither the Shipowner nor the Passage Broker or Agent is in any case liable
for loss of or injury to or delayin delivery of luggage er personal effects of the
Passenger beyond the amount of £10, unless the value of the same in excess of that
sum be declared at or before the issue of this Contract Ticket, and. freight at current rates for every kind of property (except pictures, statuary, and valuables of
any description upon which one per cent. will be charged) is paid..
5. The Passenger is not liable in respect of his luggage or personal; effects to pay
or entitled to receive any general average contribution.
6. If the Passenger does not use this Ticket for the ship and date. mentioned on
the face of it, or if it is lost or mislaid, it is to be considered as- cancelled and the
passage money will be absolutely forfeited.
7. All questions arising on this Ticket shall be decided, according to English law,
with reference to which this Contract is made.
For and on behalf of the
OCEANIC STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY, LIMITED, oF GaBAT BRITAIN,

THOMAS, BRUCE, ISMAY."

"iNew United States Immigration Act, in eftet April lst, 1891.
The following Information is required by the United States' Authorities before Passengers will be permitted to land. Agents will please either fill up the
blanks or request Passengers to do so. themselves."

[Here followed certain unfilled blanks.],
The signature "R. Martckellell" was in writing,. the other
signatures in print.
The ticket was purchased at London, by direction of the
father of the young ladies; was bronght to the office of his
firm; and, as was usual, was held in a particular department
until given to those for whom it was intended; he had no rec-

THE MAJESTIC.
Statement-of the Case.

ollection of having seen it, and, if he did, did not examine it.
One of the libellants received the ticket in an envelope; did
not look at it, and knew nothing of its contents, and the others
did not see it. There was no proof whatever that Mr. Potter
or the libellants ever had their attention called to the notices
on the back of the paper, or ever read or assented, to what was
printed thereon.
The injured baggage was checked from London to New
York direct, after it had been properly marked, and labelled
for the hold, in accordance with an arrangement between the
steamship company and the London and Northwestern Railway for checking baggage through, the practice of the company being to furnish its alternative labels for passengers'
baggage, indicating the place in which the baggage should be
put.
The baggage was not put in the hold proper but stowed in
compartment No. 3 of the Orlop deck, where the mails were
also. This compartment was about twenty-five feet in length,
had watertight bulkheads at each end, was ordinarily a safe
place for the baggage of passengers, and frequently so used.
It had three or four portholes on each side, considerably above
the water line, closed in the usual way,, with glass, covered
over with an iron protector called a dummy.
On the morning of January 25, it was found that a popthole was broken in Orlop No. 3, and that the whole compart-,
ment was flooded with sea water. On which side of the ship
the shattered porthole was located was not shown.
The log contained this entry: " Jany. 25th. Commenced
with clear weather and a high westerly s~vell. From seven
to eight A.M. vessel passed through a qpantity of wood, apparently deck planking, and about eight A.m. it was found
that the after port in the mail room had been broken through
by the sea or by wreckage, and that a large quantity of water
had found its way in and damaged the mails and baggage.
The broken port was at once replaced by a spare one, and
measures were taken to remedy the damage as much as
possible."
The captain testified: "When I got up in the morning, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

first thing I saw when. I came out of the chart room were
some planks, floating wreckage that the ship had evidently
passed through in the dark, and was passing through at the
time; and there was a pretty rough sea. I saw this port
after it was stove in, and it was forced right in. The glass
had broken in a great many pieces, and the iron dummy protecting it was forced off the hinges and turned right backwhich could not possibly have been done by the sea alone."
The chief officer was called as a witness by libellants, and
testified that he was on the bridge on the morning of the
25th from six to eight; that they "had rough seas; a bad
choppy sea"; that he "saw one piece of wreckage; it looked
like deal; it Was a good sized piece of timber; it was on the
port side, away from the ship." His evidence leaves it doubtful whether he inspected Orlop No. 3 on the day the voyage
commenced. As to whatever inspection he made, he states:
"I merely opened the watertight door and looked in." At
first he said that he had not made an examination of Orlop
No. 3 before the 25th since leaving port, but afterwards that
he was mistaken and that he was down to the Orlop "the day
after we left Queenstown"; and that the accident might have
occurred on any one of the intervening days. He was asked
on cross-examination on behalf of the steamship: "What
called your attention to this damage to the baggage? A.
The wash of the water when I opened the door. You see, it
is all in total darknes§." He was further asked and answered
on cross-examination as follows: "Q. Were these portholes in
Orlop No. 3 just as securely protected as any of the other
portholes in the hold? A. Oh, yes; more so if anything.
They are examined by an officer in Liverpool, and he signs
the ports are secure. Q. Were
a paper to that effect -slays
these ports examined on this voyage in Liverpool? A. Yes,
sir." There was no other evidence as to inspection at Liverpool in respect of the security of the ports.
Decree was entered in favor of libellants for the full amount
of damages claimed together with interest and costs. 56 Fed.
Rep. 244. From this decree the steamship company appealed
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. After

THE MAJESTIC.
Opinion of the Court.

the appeal was taken, a motion was made before a judge of
that court for leave to take new proofs under the rules of
that court, which was denied. Subsequently claimant moved
for leave to put in evidence certain reported cases, and this
motion was denied.
The Circuit Court of Appeals directed the District Court to
enter a decree in favor of each of the libellants for the sum
of $48.67 and interest from January 25, 1892, and costs in
the District Court, with costs of the appeal to the company.
20 U. S. App. 503. Whereupon the cause was brought here
by a writ of certiorari. Afterward diminution of the record
was suggested, and a writ of certiorari issued to bring up the
transcript of the proceedings on the application to take additional testimony, etc., and it was transmitted accordingly;
but as the court found nothing justifying revision in this
regard this requires no further notice.
Mr. Frederick W. Whitridge and .Mr. Willard Parker
Butler for libellants.
Mr. Everett P. Wheeler for steamship company.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the contract in this case, the steamship company
agreed, to land libellants with their luggage at the port of
New York, and none of the alleged exceptions or conditions
were referred to therein. They were notices and nothing
more, and it cannot be held as matter of law, that, whether
they were regulations for the conduct of business or limitations upon common law obligations, they constituted any part
of the contract.
Such is the rule in England, where this contract between
the ship owner, a British corporation, and citizens of the
United States, was entered into.
In .Richard8on,Spence & Co. et al. v. Rowntree, (1894) App.
Cas,. 217, the respondent had paid passage money for a voy-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

age on appelIants' steamer, and had received a ticket folded
up so that no writing was visible unless she opened it, but on
which were the words: "It is mutually agreed for the consideration aforesaid that this ticket is issued and accepted
upon the following conditions." One of the conditions was:
"The company is not under any circumstances liable to an
amount exceeding 100 dollars for loss of or injury to the
passenger or his luggage." Respondent having brought an
action against appellants to recover damages exceeding one
hundred dollars for personal injuries, certain questions were
left to the jury, in response to which they found that she
knew there was writing or printing on the ticket, but did not
know that the writing or printing contained conditions relating to the terms of the contract of carriage, and that appellants did not do what was reasonably sufficient to give her
notice of the conditions; and returned a verdict in her favor
for one hundred pounds. The House of Lords affirmed the
judgment of the Court of Appeal that there was evidence
upon which the jury could properly find as they did, and
that judgment was properly entered for plaintiff upon the
findings.
The Lord Chancellor, Lord Herschell, said: "Now, those
are questions which the majority of the Court of Appeal, in
the case of Parkerv. South Eastern Railway Company, pointed
out, by their judgment, ought to be left to the jury. That
was a case, in its broad features, very similar to this, inasmuch
as the plaintiff there had deposited some luggage at the luggage office of one of the railway companies, and received in
return for the deposit of the luggage a ticket on which there
was printed ' See back,' and on the back were certain conditions by which it was sought to limit the liability of the com.
pany. The majority of the Court of Appeal held that they
could not say, as matter of law, that by reason of taking that
ticket in exchange for the goods the plaintiff was bound by
the conditions; that there were questions to be determined
by the jury, and that upon their determination would depend
the liability of the defendants.
"My Lords, the only question that now comes before this

THE MAJESTIC.
Opinion of the Court.

House is whether there was any evidence to go to the jury
upon which they could properly find the answer that they
did to the last two questions. Now, what are the facts, and
the only facts, bearing upon this question whiuh were proved
before the jury? That the plaintiff paid the money for her
passage for the voyage in question, and that she received this
ticket handed to her folded up by the ticket clerk, so that no
writing was visible unless she opened and read it. There are
no facts beyond those. Nothing was said to draw her attention to the fact that this ticket contained any conditions;
and the argument of the appellants is, and must be, this, that
where there are no facts beyond those which I have stated
the defendants are entitled, as a matter of law, to -say that
the plaintiff is bound by those conditions. That, my Lords,
seems to me to be absolutely in the teeth of the judgment of
the Court of Appeal in the case of Parker v. South Eastern
Railway Company, with which I entirely agree; nor does it
seem to me consistent with the case of Henderson v. Stevenson
in your Lordships' House when that case is carefully considered." Parkerv. South Eastern Railway Company, 2 C. P. D.
416 ; 1 C. P. D. 618 ; ttendersonv. Stevenson, L. R. 2 H. L. Sc.
470.
In Henderson v. Stevenson, a ticket having on its face only
the words "Dublin to Whitehaven," was given by a steam
packet company to a passenger, who without looking at it,
paid for it, and went on board their steamer. The ship was
wrecked, the passenger lost all his luggage, and brought an
action against the company. The defence was that on the
back of the ticket these words were printed: "This ticket is
issued on the condition that the company incur no liability
whatever in respect of loss, injury or delay to the passenger,
,or to his (or her) luggage, whether arising from the act,
neglect or default of the company or their servants, or otherwise." Judgment was given against the company and affirmed
by the House of Lords. The Lord Chancellor, Lord Cairns,
said, among other things: "It seems to me that it would be
extremely dangerous, not merely with regard to contracts of
this description, but with regard to all contracts, if it were to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

be held that a document complete upon the face of it can be
exhibited as between two contracting parties, and, without
any knowledge of anything beside, from the mere circumstance that upon the back of that document there is something
else printed which has not actually been brought to and has
not come to the notice of one of the contracting parties, that
contracting party is to be held to have assented to that which
be has not seen, of which he knows nothing, and which is not
in any way ostensibly connected with that which is printed or
written upon the face of the contract presented to him. I
am glad to find that there is no authority for such a proposition in any of the cases that have been cited." It was held
that a mere notice from the steam packet company, without
the passenger's, assent, would not discharge it from performing its duty to carry safely and securely unless prevented by
unavoidable accident.
The rule is not otherwise in this country, and is stated in
Wheeler on the Modern Law of Carriers, 263, thus: "A notice
or memorandum, even though printed upon the bill of lading
or other contract of the carrier, unless referred to in the body
of the contract and thus made a part of it, is no more than a
notice, and does not form a part of the contract between the
shipper and the carrier."
In Michigan Central Railroad v. Mineral Springs Manufacturing Co., 16 Wall. 318, it was held that although a common carrier might limit his common law liability by special
contract, assented to by the consignor of goods, an unsigned
notice printed on the back of a receipt did not amount to
such contract, though the receipt with such notice on it might
have been taken by the consignor without dissent. And New
Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. 7Merchants' Bank, 6
How. 344, was cited to the point that nothing short of an
express stipulation by parol or in writing should be permitted
to discharge the carrier from duties which the law has annexed
to his employment.
In New York Central & Hudson River Railroadv. Fralof,
100 U. S. 24, 27, this court said: "It is undoubtedly competent
for carriers of passengers, by specific regulations, distinctly

THE MAJESTIC.
Opinion of the Court.

brought to the knowledge of the passenger, which are reasonable
in their character and not inconsistent with any statute or their
duties to the public, to protect themselves against liability, as
insurers, for baggage exceeding a fixed amount in value, except
upon additional compensation, proportioned to the risk."
In Malone v. Boston & Worcester Railroad, 12 Gray, 388,
it was ruled that there was no presumption of law that a
passenger on a railroad has read a notice limiting the liability
of the railroad corporation for baggage, printed upon the
back of a check delivered him, having on the face the words
"Look on the back," and that the question of notice was
properly submitted to the jury as a question of fact. And see
Brown v. EasternRailroad,11 Cush. 97; Merchants' Despatch
Transportation Co. v. Theilbar, 86 Illinois, 71; Rawson v.
Pennsylvania Railroad,48 N. Y. 212; Wilson v. Chesapeake
& Ohio Railroad, 21 Grattan, 654.
On the evidence, we are unable to conclude that the libellants should be held bound, as matter of fact, by any of the
alleged conditions or limitations. They were not included in
the contract proper, in terms or by reference.
The contract was signed in writing on behalf of the steamship company, but the notices were not. Libellants did not
sign, nor were they required to do so, nor was it contemplated
that they should.
The ticket was sent to the office of the father of two of the
libellants and was forwarded or handed to one of them in an
envelope. It was not seen by her until taken up in the middle
of the ocean, nor by either of the others at all. The attention
of neither of them was called to the notices, nor in any way to
the ticket, nor had either of them read it, or read any of the
printed matter, in fine type, by which the contract for passage
was surrounded. The father of the two young ladies had
directed passage to be engaged, and it is true that he had
been in the habit of using such tickets himself in crossing, but
there was no evidence that his attention had ever been particularly called to them; he had never read them; and he had no
idea that the limitations contended for had ever been claimed
to have been imposed thereby.
VOL. cLxvi-25-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

We quite agree with Lord O'Hagan in Henderson v. Stevenson, that "when a company desires to impose special and most
stringent terms upon its customers, in exoneration of its own
liability, there is nothing unreasonable in requiring that those
terms shall be distinctly declared and deliberately accepted."
But while we hold that libellants were not subjected to
these alleged conditions and limitations, and that, therefore,
the Court of Appeals erred in its conclusion that each of them
was limited in recovery to £10, a limitation which we must
say does not strike us as exactly reasonable in view of the
"twenty cubical feet" of luggage for each, which the company had expressly contracted to carry, the question still
remains, on the doctrine of implied exceptions, whether the
injury here was by the act of God, for which the company
was not liable. The burden in this respect is on the carrier.
Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272; Transportation,Company
v. Downer, 11 Wall. 129; The Edwin I Morrison, 153 U. S.
199; The Caledonia, 157 U. S. 124.
The act of God, said Chancellor Kent (vol. 2, p. 597), means
"inevitable accident, without the intervention of man and
public enemies "; and again (vol. 3, p. 216), that "perils of
the sea denote natural accidents peculiar to that element,
which do not happen by the intervention of man, nor are to
be prevented by human prudence. A casus fortuitu&was
defined in the civil law to be, quod damno fatali contingit,
cuivis diligentissimopossitcontingere. It is a loss happening
in spite of all human effort and sagacity." The words "perils
of the sea" may, indeed, have grown to have a broader signification than "the act of God," but that is unimportant here.
Judge Shipman in the Court of Appeals quotes from 1 Parsons on Shipping, 255, the definition there given of the "act
of God," and the reason for it, as follows: "The ' act of God'
is limited, as we conceive, to causes in which no man has any
agency whatever; because it was intended never to raise, in
the case of the common carrier, the dangerous and difficult
question whether he actually had any agency in causing the
loss; for, if this were possible, he should be held."
We think it quite clear that the damage complained of can-

THE MAJESTIC.
Opinion of the Court.

not be held to have been the result of such inevitable accident.
The evidence was wholly unsatisfactory as to any inspection
of the porthole before the vessel left Liverpool. What the
chief officer says in that regard, in answer to leading questions,
is manifestly not of his own personal knowledge, but on the
assumption that such inspection had taken place, because it
should have, which could have been established, yet was not,
by calling the person whose duty it was to make it. Whether
the ports were properly closed when the vessel sailed was not
made out, nor was any such inspection of the compartment,
after she sailed, proven, as, if the ports were not properly closed,
would have detected the fact. The two or three feet of water
in the mail room, Orlop No. 3, was perhaps not more than
might have been taken in during the first four or five days of
the voyage, if the port were not securely fastened and partially open. As remarked by the District. Judge, whether the
covers to all of the ports in the mail room, where this baggage
was placed, were screwed down tight, or whether some of them
were left open for light or any other purpose, was not affirmatively shown. The theory of the defence was that the breaking of the port was caused by floatihg wreckage, and while
that might possibly have been so, there was no evidence directly tending to establish it as a fact. If it had been shown
that when the vessel sailed the ports were in proper condition
and properly closed, and that this was their condition on the
(lay before the accident was discovered, that would have presented a different question. The captain testified that the iron
dlummy was turned back in a way which could not have been
done by the sea, but he admitted that his memory was treacherous, after the lapse of time ; and the log stated that the port
was broken "either by the sea or by wreckage," while the
chief officer, who was on the bridge, as the captain was not,
said that, between six and eight that morning, he saw only
one large piece of wreckage, which was "a good sized piece
of timber " ; "on the port side; away from the ship."
And, as Judge Brown held, if the wreckage referred to was
of a kind adequate to force open an iron cover properly constructed and firmly screwed down over the port, then it de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

volved upon the company to show why the ship did not steer
away from the wreckageor slacken speed while passing through
it ; and this was not atiempted. In our opinion the steamship
company failed to show that the accident was one which
could not have been prevented by human effort, sagacity and
care, and we perceive no reasonable ground for disagreeing
with the judgment of the District Court upon the facts.
The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the decree of the District Court aiirmed, with costs.

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 219. Argued March 18, 19, 1897.-Decided April 5, 1897.

Grayson v. Lynch, 163 U. S. 468, followed to the point that the special finding
of facts referred to in the acts allowing parties to submit issues of fact
in civil cases to be tried and determined by the court, is not a mere report
of the evidence, but a finding of those ultimate facts, upon which the law
must determine the rights of the parties; and, if the finding of facts be
general, only such rulings of the court- in the progress of the 'trial can be
reviewed as are presented by a bill of exceptions, and in such case the
bill of exceptions cannot be used to bring up the whole testimony for
review any more than in a trial by jury.

AN action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri by the city of St.
Louis, seeking to recover from the Western Union Telegraph
Company the sum of five dollars per annum per pole for 1509
telegraph poles which the defendant maintained on the streets
of that city between July 1, 1884 and July 1, 1887. The case
was tried without a jury, and resulted, on June 17, 1889, in a
judgment in favor of the defendant, the court holding that the
burden imposed was a privilege or license tax, which the city
had nQ authority to impose. A writ of error was sued out

