GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 155.

Argued January 15, 1897. - Decided March 22, 1897.

Riparian ownership on navigable waters is subject to the obligation to
suffer the consequences of an improvement of the navigation, under an
act of Congress, passed in the exercise of the dominant right of the Government in that regard; and damages resulting from the prosecution of
such an improvement caunot be recovered in the Court of Claims.

THIS was a petition to recover damages because of the con-

struction of a dike by the United States in the Ohio River at
a point off Neville Island, about nine miles west of the city of
Pittsburgh. The Court of Claims made the following findings
of fact:
"I. In the year 1885, and before, the claimant was the
owner in her own right and in possession of a tract of land
containing about 20 acres, situate on Neville Island, in the
Ohio River, 9 miles below the city of Pittsburg, in the county
of Allegheny and State of Pennsylvania.
"II. The claimant's land, at the time of the alleged grievance, was in a high state of cultivation, well improved with
a good dwelling house, barn and other outbuildings. The
claimant was in the year 1885, and is now, engaged in market
gardening, cultivating and shipping strawberries, raspberries,
potatoes, melons, apples, peaches, etc., to the cities of Pittsburg and Allegheny, Pa., for sale.
"III. The claimant's farm has a frontage of 1000 feet on
the north, or main navigable, channel of the Ohio River,
where the claimant has a landing, which was used in shipping
the products from, and the supplies to, her said farm; that
the said farm extends across the said Neville Island in a
southwesterly direction to the south channel of said Ohio
River, which is not navigable; that the said landing is the
only one on claimant's farm from which she can ship the
products from, and supplies to, her farm.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"IV. Congress, by the river and harbor acts of July 5,
1884, 23 Stat. 133, 147, and August 5, 1886, 24 Stat. 310,
327, authorized and directed the improvement of the said
Ohio River as follows:
"'Improving the Ohio River: Continuing improvement,
six hundred thousand dollars'
.
.
(act 1884).
"'Improving the Ohio River: Continuing. improvement,
three hundred and seventy-five thousand ($375,000) dollars'
• . . (act 1886).
"Under said authority Lieut. Col. William E. Merrill, of the
engineer corps of the U. S. Army, by the direction of the chief
of engineers of the U. S. Army, and the Secretary of War,
commenced, June 17, 1885, the construction of a dike 2200
feet in length to concentrate the water-flow in the main
channel of the Ohio River, beginning at a point on said
Neville Island 400 feet east of the claimant's farm and running in a northwesterly direction with the main or navigable
channel of the said Ohio River to the outer point of a bar in
said river known as Merriman's bar, contiguous to and extending into the said river from the northwest point of claimant's
farm; that the said dike has been completed to, and beyond,
the northeastern point of said Merriman's bar.
"V* The construction of said dike by the United States for
the purposes aforesaid has substantially destroyed the landing
of the claimant, by preventing the free egress and ingress to
and from said landing on and in front of the claimant's farm,
to the main or navigable channel of said river.
"The claimant is unable to use her landing for the shipment
of products from, and supplies to, her farm for the greater
part of the gardening season on account of said dike obstructing the passage of the boats; that she can only use the said
landing at a high stage of. water. That during the ordinary
stage of water, the claimant cannot get the products off, or
the supplies to, her farm, without going over the farms of her
neighbors to reach another landing.
"VI. The claimant's land was worth $600 per acre before
the construction of the said dike; that it is now greatly reduced
in value (from $150 to $200 per acre) by the obstruction caused

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by said dike; that the damage to the claimant's farm exceeds
the sum of $3000.
"VII. Claimant's access to the navigable portion of the
stream was not entirely cut off; at a 9-foot stage of the
water, which frequently occurs during November, December,
March, April and May, she could get into her dock in any
manner; that from a 3-foot stage she could communicate
with the navigable channel through the chute; that at any
time she could haul out to the channel by wagon.
"VIII There was no water thrown back on claimant's land
by the building of said dike, and that said dike has not itself
come into physical contact with claimant's land and has not
been the cause of any such physical contact in any other way.
In making the improvement the defendants did not recognize
any right of property in the claimant, in and to the right
alleged to be affected, did not attempt or assume to take
private property in and by the construction of the dike, but
proceeded in the exercise of a claimed right to improve the
navigation of the river."
And upon these findings the court held, as a conclusion of
law, that the claimant was not entitled to recover, and dismissed the petition.
The opinion of the court by Weldon, J., discusses the case
at length, citing many decisions, and maintains the conclusion
on the grounds that the court had no jurisdiction; and that,
if it had, there still could be no recovery because the United
States were not responsible to claimant for injuries suffered
in the use and occupation of her property in consequence of
the construction of the works. 29 C. Cl. 18.
.Mr. T. I. IV. McPhmerson (with whom was Mr. N. W.
Shafer on the brief) for appellant.
.Mr. A ssistant Attorney General Dodge for appellees.
MR.
court.

CHIEF JusTIE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

All navigable waters are under the control of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

States for the purpose of regulating and improving naviga-

tion, and although the title to the shore and submerged soil
is in the various States and individual owners under them, it
is always subject to the servitude in respect of navigation
created in favor of -the Federal government by the Constitution. South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4; Shively v.
Bowby, 152 U. S. 1; Eldridge v. Trezevant, 160 U. S. 452.
In South Carolina v. Georgia, a proposed improvement of

the Savannah River consisted of the practical closing of one
channel around an island and the throwing of water into
other channels, to the substantial improvement of the harbor
of Savannah. This court held that, in view of the general
rule, although structures deemed by Congress to be in aid
of navigation might in fact be in obstruction of certain
methods of navigation of the particular stream, their construction was, nevertheless, within the Federal power, and
Mr. Justice Strong, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"It is not, however, to be conceded that Congress has no
power to order obstructions to be placed in the navigable
waters of the United States, either to assist navigation or to
change its direction by forcing it into one channel of a river
rather than the other. It may build lighthouses in the bed
of the stream. It may construct jetties. It may require all
navigators to pass along a prescribed channel, and may close
any other channel to their passage. If, as we have said, the
United States have succeeded to the power and rights of the
several States, so far as control over interstate and foreign
commerce is concerned, this is not to be doubted.
Upon this subject the case of Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling
and Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 421, is instructive. There

it was ruled that the power of Congress to regulate commerce
includes the regulation of intercourse and navigation, and
consequently the power to determine what shall or shall not
be deemed, in the judgment of law, an obstruction of navigation.

.

.

.

The case of The Clinton Bridge, 10 Wall. 454,

is in full accord with this decision. It asserts plainly the
power of Congress to declare what is and what is not an illegal obstruction in a navigable stream."

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In Shively v. Bowlby, the leading authorities of the courts
of the United States and of most of the States, and of Great
Britain, as to the character of the title to submerged land,
are considered, and the conclusion announced that the title
is in each State, with full power in the state legislature to
confer it on individuals, subject at all times to the servitude
of the Federal government for regulation and improvement
of navigation.
In Eldridge v. Trezevant, the doctrine existing in the State
of Louisiana that lands abutting on the rivers and bayous were
subject to a servitude in favor of the public, whereby such
portions thereof as were necessary for the purpose of making
and repairing public levees might be taken, in pursuance of
law, without compensation, was fully recognized as enforceable
notwithstanding the Fourteenth Amendment.
By the established law of Pennsylvania, as observed, by
Mr. Justice Gray in Shively v. Bowlby, "the owner of lands
bounded by navigable water has the title in the soil between
high and low water mark, subject to the public right of navigation, and to the authority of the legislature to make public
improvements upon it, and to regulate his use of it."
The constitution of that State, prior to 1873, provided that
no man's property could "be taken or applied to public use
without the consent of his representatives and without just
compensation being made."
In Monongahela Navigation Co. v. Ooons, 6 Watts & Searg.
101, plaintiff's mill site was destroyed by the backing up of
water by a dam built by a canal company under authority of
law for the improvement of navigation, and the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania held this to be a mere consequential damage
resulting from the exercise of the public right to improve
navigation ; that it was damnum absqu, injuria; and that
such flooding and injury did not amount to a taking under
the constitution.
In the opinion of the court it was stated by Chief Justice
Gibson :
"It cannot be said that the plaintiff's mill was taken or applied, in any legitimate sense, by the State, or by the company
voL,. cixwi-s

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

invested with its power; nor can it be said that he was de-

prived of it. In the case of the Philadelphia and Trenton
Railroad,6 Whart. 25, the words in the first paragraph were

allowed to have their obvious and popular meaning, so as to be
restrained to property taken away, and not extended to property injured by an act which did not amount to an assumption
of the possession;
"Still, it is only to a case of taking that the obligation
extends; and when a corporation acts by virtue of a constitutional law, it is subject to no other responsibility for acts of
consequential damage, than is specially provided for.
"It is not, therefore, enough to set before us a case of moral
wrong, without showing us that we have legal power to redress it. Beyond constitutional restraint or legislative power,
there is none but the legislAtive will, tempered by its sense of
justice, which has happily been sufficient, in most cases, to
protect the citizen. Compensation has been provided for every
injury which could be foreseen, whether within the constitutional injunction or not, in all laws for public works by the
State or a corporation; though cases of damage have occurred
which could neither be anticipated nor brought within the
benefit of the provision by the most strained construction.
In one instance, a profitable ferry on the Susquehanna, at its
confluence with the Juniata, was destroyed by the Pennsylvania canal; and, in another, an invaluable spring of water,
at the margin of the river, near Selinsgrovej was drowned.
These losses, like casualties in the prosecution of every public work, are accidental, but unavoidable, and they are but
samples of a multitude of others."
Numerous subsequent cases sustain the rule thus laid down,
which is, indeed, the general rule upon the subject.
The Pennsylvania constitution of 1873 contained this additional provision: " Municipal and other corporations and
individuals, invested with the privilege of taking private property for public use, shall make just compensation for property taken, injured or destroyed, by the construction or
enlargement of their works, highways or improvements,
which compensation shall be paid or secured before such

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

taking, injury or destruction"; and in Pennsylvania Co. v.
Marchant, 119 Penn. St. 541, it was ruled that this had relation to such injuries to one's property as were the natural andnecessary results of the original construction or enlargement'
of its works by a corporation, and not of their subsequent
operation. S. 0. 153 U. S. 380.
The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States provides that private property shall not "be taken for
public use without just compensation." Here, however, the
damage of which Mrs. Gibson complained was not the result
of the taking of any part of her property, whether upland or
submerged, or a direct invasion thereof, but the incidental
consequence of the lawful and proper exercise of a governmental power.
The applicable principle is expounded in Transportation
Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S.635. In that case, plaintiff being. an
owner of lands situated at the intersection of La Salle street,
in Chicago, with the Chicago River, upon which it had valuable dock and warehouse accQmmodations, with a numerous
line of steamers accustomed to land at that dock, was interrupted in his use thereof by the building of a tunnel under
the Chicago River by authority of the state legislature, in
accomplishing which work it was necessary to tear up La Salle
Street, which precluded plaintiff from access to his property
for a considerable time; also to build a coffer dam in the
Chicago River, which excluded his vessels from access to his
docks; and such an injury was held to be damnum absque
inJuria. This court said, again speaking through Mr. Justice
Strong: "But acts done in the proper exercise of governmental powers, and not directly encroaching upon private
property, though their consequences may impair its use, are
universally held not to be a taking within the meaning of the
constitutional provision. They do not entitle the owner of
such property to compensation from the State or its agents,
or give him any right of action. This is supported by an
immense weight of authority. Those who are curious to see
the decisions will find them collected in Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, page 542 and notes. The extremest quali-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

fication of the doctrine is to be found, perhaps, in Pucmpelly
v. Green Bay Company, 13 Wall. 166, and in Eaton v. Boston,
Concord &~c.Railroad,51 N. H. 504. In those cases it was
held that permanent flooding of private property may be
In those cases there was a physical
regarded as a 'taking.'
invasion of the real estate of the private owner, and a practical ouster of his possession. But in the present case there
was no such invasion. No entry was made upon the plaintiff's lot. All that was done was to render for a time its use
more inconvenient."
Moreover, riparian ownership is subject to the obligation
to suffer the consequences of the improvement of navigation
in the exercise of the dominant right of the Government in
that regard. The legislative authority for these works consisted simply in an appropriation for their construction, but
this was an assertion of a right belonging tp the Government,
to which riparian property was subject, and not of a right to
appropriate private property, not burdened with such servitude, to public purposes.
In short, the damage resulting from the prosecution of this
improvement of a navigable highway, for the public good,
was not the result of a taking of appellant's property, and
was merely incidental to the exercise of a servitude to which
her property had always been subject.
Judgment affirmed.

NELSON v. FLINT.
ERROR TO THE SUREII
No. 196.

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.

Argued and submitted March 3,1897.-Decided

March 29, 1897.

On the face of the papers contained in the record, the right of the plaintiff

below to recover is clear.
Conversations between two makers of a note, in the absence of the payee.

and without his knowledge, are not binding upon him, and are not admissible in evidence against him in an action to recover on the note.

A party cannot, by merely filing with the clerk an affidavit not incorporated

