MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
MR. JUSTICE SHIAs was of opinion that the decree should
be affirmed without modification.
Mit. JUSTICE HARLAN did not hear the argument or participate in the decision of this case.

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Xo. 185.

Argued March 24, 25, 1897. -Decided

April 19, 1897.

A bond to the United States, conditioned that a property and disbursing
officer of the War Department shall faithfully discharge his duties, and
faithfully account for public money and property committed to his charge,
takes effect on the day when it is accepted by the Government, and is to
be regarded as of that date.
When it appears that such a bond, duly signed by sureties, had been offered
to the government official, and rejected by him as-not bearing seals, and
that it was taken away by the property and disbursing officer, the principal, and returned with proper seals, it will be presumed, in the absence
of proof to the 'contrary, that the seals were attached with the consent
of the sureties.
The order of the Secretary of War directing the execution of such a bond
was one which he had power to make, and, being made, the disbursing
officer was bound to have it executed and filed.
The Chief Signal Officer had the right to designate one of the officers under
him as a property and disbursing officer to whom should belong the custody
of all government property and funds pertaining to the office of the Chief
Signal Officer, and he further had the power, under the general direction
of the Secretary of War, to provide that such officer should be responsible
for the due execution of his official duties ; and, a bond having been given
for such faithful performance, and such officer having been guilty of the
forgery of vouchers and tie embezzling of public moneys officially re.
ceived by him, such conduct was a plain violation of his duty as such
officer, and the condition of the bond, as it lPlainly covered such conduct,
was violated thereby.
A certificate given to such disbursing officer before the discovery of his
fraud that his accounts had been examined, found correct and were cl6sed,
did not operate to release him or his sureties from liability on the bond.
There was no delay in the commencement of the proceedings against the
disbursing officer, which injured the sureties, or operated to release the
latter from their liability under the bond.
The transcripts from the books and proceedipg$ of the Treasury Department

ocTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
were admissible in evidence as sufficient transcripts within Rev. Stat.
ยง 886, and the certificate which certified that the papers annexed thereto
were true copies of the originals on file, and of the whole of such originals,
was a full compliance with the law.
Under circumstances like those disclosed in this case the account between
the Government and its officer may be restated, and the sums allowed him
on fraudulent vouchers disallowed.
The judgment recovered against the officer was admissible in evidence in an
action against the surety on his bond, although the latter was no party
to it.

ON the 7th day of December, 1880, First Lieutenant II. W.

Howgate, Acting Signal Officer, U. S. Army, sent in his resignation to the Adjutant General, at Washington, through the
Acting Chief Signal Officer. At that time there was in existence paragraph 2394, United States Army Regulations
which provided that "An officer retiring from service shall
before final payment produce certificates from the several
accounting officers of non-indebtedness to the United States,
and make an affidavit upon the final voucher, stating in addition the correctness of its several items, the place of his residence, and that he is not indebted to the United States on
any account whatever." These certificates were obtained by
Lieutenant Howgate, and his resignation was accepted by
the President to take effect December 18, 1880. On the 27th
of April, 1881, a final payment was made to him of $104,
being the balance due him for salary, etc., and his accounts as
then appearing on the books of the Government stood balanced.
Soon after the date of this final payment it became evident,
from examinations made in the books of the Government and
by investigations from other sources, that Lieutenant Howgate
had perpetrated gross frauds upon the Government by means
of fraudulent and forged. vouchers, which had been accepted
by the Government as genuine, and upon which his certificates
for settlements had been made. Upon a restatement being
had, in which these false and fraudulent vouchers were omitted
from the credits which had been thereby given to him, it
appeared that he was a defaulter in the sum of over $133,000.
On the 24th of August, 1881, an action was commenced by
the Government against him to recover over one hundred

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

thousand dollars, being the amount of moneys unlawfully
drawn on, and obtained by him from the United States Treasury, a list of which was set forth in the "particulars of demand" accompanying the declaration.
Upon affidavits setting up certain facts showing the false
and forged character of the vouchers an attachment was issued in the action, and certain property of his was attached.
The defendant appeared by attorney, and finally on the 24th'
day of May, 1883, upon motion of the district attorney, judgment in favor of the United States against the defendant for
want of a plea was granted, and judgment entered in favor
of the plaintiff against the defendant for $101,257.08, with interest thereon from August 24, 1881.
By virtue of this judgment the property which had been
seized by virtue of the attachment issued in the action was
sold, and the sum of $28,000 was realized upon such sale, and
the amount thereof credited upon the judgment.
This present action was commenced on the 29th of Septenber, 1884, on a bond alleged to have been executed by the
defendants named in the action, being Henry W. Howgate,
William B. Moses and Lebbeus 11. Rogers. Of these defendants Mr. Moses was the only one served with process.
The original declaration contained but one count, and alleged that the defendants "on the 2d day of April, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventyeight, at the district aforesaid, by their certain writing 6bligatory, of that date, sealed with their seals, and now here in
court produced, jointly and severally bound and acknowledged
themselves to be indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of twelve
thousand dollars, to be paid to plaintiff on demand, yet though
requested, the said defendants have never paid the same to
plaintiff, but have wholly neglected and refused, and still do
neglect and refuse, so to do." Judgment for the sum was
then demanded.
The bond sued on was introduced in evidence upon the trial,
and reads as follows:
"Know all men by these presents, that we, Henry W.
Howgate, 1st lieut. 20th U. S. Infantry, William B. Moses,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

Washington, D. C., and Lebbeus H. Rogers, New York City,
New York, are held and firmly bound unto the United States
of America in the sum of ($12,000) twelve thousand dollars,
lawful money of the United States, to be paid to the United
States; for which payment well and truly to be made, we
bind ourselves and each of us, our and each of our heirs, executors and administrators, for and in the whole, jointly and
severally, firmly by these presents.
"Sealed with our seals. Dated the- day of March, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventyeight, and of the independence of said States the one hundred
and second.
"The condition of this obligation is such that whereas the
above-bounden. First Lieut. Henry W. Howgate, 20th Inf't'y,
has been assigned to duty as a property and disbursing officer,
Signal Service, U. S. A.,
has accepted said assignment:
"Now, if the said 1st Lieut. Henry W. Howgate, 20th
Infantry, shall and doth at all times henceforth and during
his holding and remaining in said office carefully discharge
the duties thereof and faithfully expend all public money and
honestly account for the same and for all public property
which shall or may come into his hands on account of Signal
Service, U. S. Army, without fraud or delay, then the above
obligation to be void; otherwise to remain in full force and
virtue.
"HENRY W. HOWOATE.
[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]
LEBBEuS H. ROGERS.
W. B. MosEs.
[SEAL.]
"Signed and delivered in presence of"JAMES A. SWIFT,
ANSON MALTBY,

Witnesses as to Lebbeus I. Rogers.
JAMES A. SWIFT,

Witness as to W. B. Moses."
The bond contained also the justification of Mr. Rogers, as
surety, and purported to have been sworn to in the city. of

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

New York on the 13th day of March, 1878. It also contained
the justification of Mr. Moses, as surety, and purported to have
been sworn to by him on the 14th day of March, 1878, at
Washington, D. C. The bond also contained the indorsement
of Chief Justice Cartter of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, certifying that satisfactory evidence of the
suifficiency of the sureties to the bond had been given and that
he approved the same.
A second count to this declaration was subsequently added,
in which the appointment of the defendant Howgate to the
Signal Office at Washington, his assignment to duty there as
property and disbursing officer, the execution of the bond
bearing date the -day
of March, 1878, its delivery and the
condition contained in such bond, the receipt of a large
amount of public moneys, and the failure to expend and
honestly account for the sum of one hundred and thirty-three
thousand and odd dollars, were all set forth at length and in
detail.
The defendant Moses filed several pleas, setting forth substantially the defences: (1) that the alleged writing was not
his bond; (2) that it was extorted from Howgate without any
authority of law; .(3) that there was no such office created by
law as was mentioned in the bond, and no duties pertaining to
the office prescribed by law or by any regulation or. order of
any department or officer, and that the alleged bond was
void for uncertainty; (4) that the accounting officer of the
Treasury had duly settled the accounts of Howgate and issued
to him a certificate of non-indebtedness to the United States,
of which the defendant Moses had notice, which discharged
him from liability as surety on the bond; (5) that Howgate
had kept and performed the condition of the bond.
Prior to the trial and on the 2d of May, 1892, Moses died,
and the suit was continued against his administrators. The
trial commenced on the 22d of March, 1893. To maintain its
case the Government gave evidence as to the organization of
the Signal Service. It then offered in evidence a duly certified copy of the order, dated April 18, 1868, from the Adjutant General's Office, directing Lieutenant Howgate to report

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

for duty to the Chief Signal Officer of the Army. Also a duly
certified copy of the order from the office of the Chief Signal
Officer of the Army, dated Washington, July 25, 1876, stating
that "First Lieutenant H. W. Howgate, 20th Infantry, Brevet
Captain, U. S. A., Acting Signal Officer's assistant, is hereby
assigned to duty ' as property and disbursing officer' at this
office, together with such other duties as may be assigned to
him." Also copy of a letter of Ilowgate's, dated Washington,
March 26, 1878, addressed to the Secretary of War, in which
he said: "In compliance with what I understand to be the
wishes of the department, I have the honor to enclose herewith a bond similar in amount and form to that given by a
captain of the commissary department."
It appears from the record that this bond was referred by
the War Department on the 27th of March, 1878, to the
Judge Advocate General for an opinion as to its sufficiency
and form; that on the same day it was returned to the Secretary of War by the Judge Advocate General, with a com,munication that the bond was in due form, "except in that
it wants the formal seals required to be affixed to the signatures of the obligor and sureties, by standing order of the
War Department of June 11, 1869." Whereupon on the 29th
of March, 1878, ,the bond was returned to Lieutenant Howgate, by order of the Secretary of War, "to have the proper
seals affixed." On the 1st of April, 1878, the bond was returned to the War Department, accompanied by a written
communication, gigned by Lieutenant Howgate, in which he
said that the bond was " respectfully returned to the Honorable Secretary of War with seals affixed as per instructions."
Thereupon, and on the 2d day of April, 1878, the bond was
approved. The Government then called the subscribing witness to the bond as to Howgate and Moses. The witness
proved their signatures, and that they executed the bond
at the Signal Office in Washington, March 14, 1878. The
witness thought, though he was not positive, the seals were
then on the bond. (In this he must have been mistaken, as
the above statement substantially proves the contrary.) The
bond was then offered and received in evidence under defend-

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The Government then proceeded to give
ants' objections.
evidence to show the breach of the condition of the bond by
producing transcripts of books and proceedings of the Treasury Department, which it claimed were properly certified
under section 886 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, and by producing witnesses upon the question of
the forgery of the vouchers by Ilowgate.
Various other questions arose upon the trial in regard to requests to charge which are sufficiently referred to in the opinion.
The jury found a verdict for $12,000 with interest from
September 29, 1884, and the defendants, the administrators,
having filed an admission of sufficient assets when administered to satisfy the recovery, judgment was, on the 1st day
of April, 1893, entered upon the verdict.
The defendants' motion for a new trial, for errors in law
and upon exceptions taken, was denied, and upon appeal to
the Court' of Appeals the judgment was affirmed, and the
defendants now seek a review of that judgment by this court.:
Mr. William F. Mattingly and Xr. W. L. Cole for plaintiffs
in error.
.r. Solicitor General for defendants in error.
drew B. Duvall filed a brief for same.

31r. An-

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Various errors are assigned in this court, the first two of
which allege that error was coimmitted: First, in admitting
the alleged bond in evidence, there being a material variance
in date between the instrument offered and the one described
in the declaration; Second, in admitting the alleged bond in
evidence when there was no evidence tending to prove that it
was sealed by W. B. Moses.
(1). We think there was no material variance as claimed
by the defendants. The first count in the declaration states
the date of the bond as the 2d of April, 1878. The bond as
offered in evidence is dated the - day of March, 1878. In
VOL. CLXVI-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the second count of the declaration, the bond sued on was
alleged to have been dated the - day of March, 1878. The
bond was offered in evidence, while that count stood, and as
it showed no variance when compared with the second count,
the defendants' counsel said that they were justified in making no objection to its admission at that time on that ground.
When in the course of the trial the second count was withdrawn, by leave of the court, it left but the original first
count in the declaration, and, thereupon, the defendants
moved to strike out the bond that had been admitted in
evidence, upon the ground that the bond declared upon in
the first count of the declaration is described as a bond bearing date on the 2d day of April, 1878, and the bond which
was theretofore offered in evidence by counsel for complainant
purports to bear date on the - day of March, 1878. The
motion was overruled, and defendants' counsel excepted, and
it is that exception upon which defendants' counsel now claim
a reversal of the judgment.
It is seen by reference to the foregoing statement of facts
that the bond was finally sent back by Howgate to the Secretary of War, with seals attached, in a letter dated April 1,
1878, and that it was approved, that is, accepted, April 2,
1878. It is settled that a bond of that character takes effect
on the date of acceptance, and it is from that time that it
speaks. United States v..Le Baron, 19 How. 73; same case,
on another review, 4 Wall. 642, 647.
There is no claim made that there ever was any other bond
than the one put in evidence, nor that the defendants were
surprised or in any way misled by the difference in the date
of the bond from the date alleged in the declaration. The
objection is one of the most extreme technicality, and does not
in any way reach the merits of the case.
The case of Cooke v. Graham's Administrator, 3 Cranch,
229, is cited by the defendants' counsel as authority for the
claim that this variance is fatal. The question there arose
upon a demurrer, and the decision is based upon the old and
highly technical rules of pleading. Marshall, Chief Justice,
said that the plaintiff having declared upon a bond, dated the

M
1OSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

3d of October, and oyer being prayed, the bond appeared to
bear date of the 3d of January preceding. By the oyer the
bond was made a part of the declaration. He said there were
several pleadings, and among the rest a bad declaration, a
bad rejoirider, and a special demurrer by the plaintiff to this
bad rejoinder. He then said the variance between the date of
the bond declared upon and that of the oyer is fatal. But the
principle of that case has nothing to do with that. involved in
the case at bar. The question here does not arise on demurrer,
but in the course of a trial upon the merits. The bond having
been declared upon as dated the 2d of April, 1878, is produced,
and is shown to bear date the - day of March, 1878. Otherwise it is the same bond in description as that declared on,
with no claim of there being any other bond, and with the
proof that the bond in question, although dated on the -day of
March was not accepted by the War Department until the 2d
day of April, 1878, at which time it became a completed instrument, and from which time it took effect. It is plain to be
seen that no possible harm or injury could occur to the defendants from disregarding this variance.
In Wash v. Towne, 5 Wall. 689, 698, Mr. Justice Clifford, in
delivering the opinion of the court upon a question of variance,
said: "Formerly the rule in that respect was applied with
great strictness, but the modern decisions are more liberal
and reasonable. Decided cases may be found, unquestionably,
where it has been held that very slight differences were sufficient to-constitute a fatal variance. Just demands were often
defeated by such rulings until Parliament interfered, in the
parent country, to prevent such flagrant injustice. Federal
courts have possessed the power from their organization to the
present time to amend such imperfections in the pleadings,
except in cases of special demurrer set down for hearing, and
are directed to give judgment according to law and the right
of the cause. Recent statutes in the States also confer a liberal discretion upon courts in allowing amendments to pleadings, and those statutes, together with the change they have
superinduced in the course of judicial decision, may be said to
'have established the general rule in the state tribunals that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

no variance between the allegations of a pleading and the
proofs offered to sustain it shall be deeuied material, unless it
be of a character to mislead the opposite party in maintaining
his action or defence on the merits. Irrespective of those
statutes, however, no variance ought ever to be regarded as
material where the allegation and proof substantially correspond." We think this exception is without merit.
(2). We are also of opinion that there was no error in admitting the bond in evidence, under the objection that at the
time it was admitted there was no evidence tending to prove
that it was sealed by Mr. Moses. Passing the objection raised
by the defendants in error as to the form of pleadings, and,
referring to the foregoing statement of facts, it appears that
at the time the bond was first tendered to the War Department it had been signed and acknowledged by the principal
and his sureties, and the latter had each made an affidavit
justifying as to his financial ability to become such surety, and
that Howgate had presented the bond (without seals) to the
Secretary of War, as in compliance with the directions of the
War Department.
The instrument being incomplete when first sent to the department, there was no acceptance of the same at that time.
Its return by the dep_.rtment with the objection stated did
not in any sense make Howgate the agent of the Government
to procure seals to the instrument; the Government undertook no such mission, and it was not under any obligation so
to do. It stood indifferent whether Jlowgate procured those
seals or not; he was under obligation to present a proper bond
to the department, and if he did not do so, the department
would take its own measures consequent upon that failure.
We have a case, therefore, where the proof is full as to the
original signing of the bond by the sureties; no pretence of
any forgery or any irregularity in that respect, the only defect
being the lack of seals. This defect was pointed out by the
officer of the Government, and Howgate took back the bond
to have the seals put on, and in due time he returned it with
the seals upon it. There is no direct evidence as to when or
wAhere the seals were put on or as to the actual consent of the

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sureties. Under these circumstances, and with the proof in
the condition thus stated, we think the presumption is with
the Government, that the seals were placed upon the instrument with the consent of the parties, and if there were no
such consent, that is matter of defence to be affirmatively
established. The inference is very strong that consent was
given. It has been held that proof of the execution of a
bond, taken with the fact of possession by the proper party,
was sufficient to found a presumption of proper delivery of
the bond. Edelin v. Sanders, 8 Maryland, 118. In this case
the evidence clearly forbids the supposition that the principal
or the sureties contemplated a fraud upon the Government,
or intended to present to it an incomplete instrument. The
latter had already consented to act as sureties, had signed the
paper, acknowledged their signatures, and justified as to their
financial ability. The Government was asking no favor of
them or of Howgate; it had simply declined to receive as a
good bond the instrument they had executed for the very
purpose of being accepted by the Government. No change
of circumstances is shown between the original execution of
the bond and its return with the seals attached to it by Howgate. The sureties were not in the position of having secured
what they wanted by the execution of the instrument in the
manner originally shown; nor was the Government in the
attitude of asking something more of these sureties after they
had secured the benefit for which the paper had been executed.
As the matter stood, when, the bond was returned
to Howgate, he was under the same obligation to furnish a
proper instrument that he had ever been, and for all that
appears, precisely the same reasons for signing the instrument originally still existed with the sureties at the time
when the seals were placed upon the bond. The evidence
is strong enough upon which to base the presumption that
under these circumstances the seals were placed upon the
bond with the consent of the sureties, and the bond returned
to the War Department properly executed. At least a~priina
facie presumption to this effect ought to be indulged in in
cases such as this where bonds are furnished the Government

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to secure the proper performance of duty by the obligors in
This principle we think is illustrated in the
such bonds.
cases of Dair v. United States, 16 Wall. 1, and Butler v.
United States, 21 Wall. 272.
When the officers of the Government received this bond
for the second time, and the seals were then found upon it,
there was nothing to attract their suspicion that the bond was
not a proper instrument, executed in due form by all the obligors. The fact that it had once been presented without seals,
and then when the'objection was taken to that defect and the
instrument returned to Howgate on that account, it was thereafter again sent in by Howgate, one of the obligors, with the
seals affixed thereon, was not a circumstance of suspicion nor
one to raise any doubt as to the consent of the other obligors
to the placing of the seals upon the instrument signed by
them. Being originally signed by them for the purpose of
acceptance by the Government, there is no fact upon which a
presumption could be based that they would refuse to make
the instrument complete by adding their seals when it was
found that they had been theretofore omitted.
The cases cited by counsel for the defendants do not impair
the strength of this principle, nor do away with the presumption. Among the cases cited are Follett's Heirs v. Rose, 3
McLean, 332. The case involved but a question of fact, which
was submitted to a jury, whether an instrument that was produced on the trial and had no seals attached to it, had had
them attached when the instrument was originally executed
many years prior thereto. Edelin v. Sanders, 8 Maryland,
118, 129, contains nothing inconsistent with the presumption
that the seals in this case were affixed with the consent of the
obligors.
In State v. Humbird, 54 Maryland, 327, the bond sued on
had no seal opposite the name of one of the obligors, and there
was no evidence that he had adopted the seal of any of the
other parties to the instrument. It was held that the instrument was not his bond, because, in fact, there was no evidence of
any seal belonging to him ever having been affixed, and no such
seal was on the instrument when it was produced on the trial.

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In Chilton v. People, 66 Illinois, 501, a bond was sued on,
while the instrument producod had no seal. It was held that
the fact that the instrument contained the statement "sealed
with my seal," when there was no seal or scroll, did not supply
the defect of its absence.
In Barnet v. Abbott, 53 Vermont, 120, the instrument when
executed had no seal, but when delivered to the selectmen it
was sealed. The evidence showed that the sureties did not
affix the seals themselves, and in fact authorized no one to
affix them to the instrument. The court held that it was
defectively executed. (No evidence of this nature is to be
found in the case at bar.)
In United States v. Linn, 15 Pet. 290, 311, the second and
third counts of the declaration were upon "an instrument in
writing." It was not averred that it was under seal. The instrument was executed under an act of Congress providing for the
execution of a bond. The defendant demurr6d to the two counts
and the question was certified to this court upon a certificate
of a division of opinion: (1) as to whether the obligation set
out in the declaration, being without seal, was a bond within
the act of Congress; and (2) whether such instrument was
good at common law. It was held that the instrument was
not a bond within the act, but that it was good at common
law. The case went down for further proceedings, during
which a trial was had and the case came again before this
court on writ of error, and it is reported in 1 How. 104. It
seems that after the case went down the pleadings in the case
were altered, and finally a plea was filed on the part of the
defendants alleging merely that seals were affixed-to the bond
without the consent of the defendants, without alleging that
it was done with the knowledge or by the authority or direction of the plaintiffs. It was held in the court below that the
special demurrer to the plea was bad and the court gave judgment for the defendant, adjudging that the plea was sufficient in
law. This court held otherwise, and it was upon the principle
that the placing of the seals thereon after the execution of
the instrument was a material alteration of it, but if done by
a stranger and the instrument was valid without the seals and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

was declared on as such an instrument, the action upon it
could be maintained.
In United States v. Nelson, 2 Brock. 64, the parties to the
bond were sureties, and signed in blank before the principal, but
with full knowledge of the purpose for which the bond was
to be executed. The blanks were afterwards filled up in their
absence without express authority from them, and given to
the officers of the United States, who accepted it. It was
held by Marshall, Chief Justice, "with much doubt and with
a strong belief that this judgment will be reversed," that the
law is for defendants. Under the cases of Dair, 16 Wall. 1,
and Butler, 21 Wall. 272, it would seem as if the doubts of
the great Chief Justice were not entirely misplaced.
INot one of these cases lays down any principle which shows
the ruling of the court below in this case to have been erroneous.
We come back, then, to a case where the proof was uncontradicted of a signing of an instrument, reciting that it was
sealed (when in fact it was not) and that when sent to the
obligee it was returned in order that seals might be affixed.
It will, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be presumed, when the bond is again presented with seals, that they
had been inadvertently omitted, and that the sureties had
consented to their being placed upon the instrument in order
to make it effective, a purpose which they must have originally intended when they executed it. Any other presumption would tend to show that the sureties, when signing the
instrument, intended an idle thin-; that is, to sign a paper
which would not answer the purpose for which it was then
executed, or else they intended a fraud upon and to act dishonestly towards, the Government. Neither )resumption
should be indulged in. The presumption called for under the
circumstances is the one which is based upon the view that
the principal and the sureties intended to act honestly and to
execute an instrument which would be accepted by the Government.
Upon the case as it stood there was no question to be submitted to the jury upon this bond. The presumption of a

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

final due execution arose from the evidence given on the part
of the plaintiffs, and as none was given in explanation or in
contradiction of it, the presumption was sufficient in law to
base a finding of that fact thereon. We think that no sufficient objection in regard to the sealing of the bond was
shown, and that this assignment of error is, therefore, not
made good.
(3). Another objection to the validity of the bond is taken
by the defendants, which is, that the bond was extorted colore
offlcii, and is void for that reason. The defendants allege that
there was no statute or regulation directing or permitting the
exaction of a bond from an officer of the Army assigned to
duty in the Signal Service at Washington and discharging the
duties of "property and disbursing officer," and that, therefore,
the bond exacted from Lieutenant Howgate was void. Defendants' counsel offered to prove that some time after he had
been assigned to his position the Secretary of War, through
his chief clerk, directed that Lieutenant Howgate, before receiving moneys upon requisitions made by him, should file a
bond as particularly stated, and if he failed to file such bond
that he should be relieved from duty as disbursing officer;
that Lieutenant Ilowgate protested against this requirement
for various reasons which he stated to the chief clerk, who informed him that the Secretary of War had made his decision
upon the question involved after due deliberation, and had
directed that unless he filed the required bond he should be
relieved from duty as disbursing officer; that after receiving
this information from the chief clerk, Lieutenant Howgate forwarded to the War Department the bond upon which this
suit is brought. The evidence was rejected and exception
taken by counsel for the defendant. It is now urged that
such evidence was material; that it showed that the bond
was improperly and illegally extorted from Lieutenant Howgate under fear of losing his position as property and disbursing officer, and that the bond is therefore void.
We think the evidence was properly excluded, although
there was no statute specially providing for the execution of a
bond by one occupying the position of Lieutenant Howgate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The order of the War Department that a bond should be executed was one which the Secretary of War had power to make.
It was held in the case of United States v. Tingey, 5 Pet.
.115, that the United States had a right to take a bond to insure the faithful performance of duty on the part of an individual or officer where such bond was voluntarily given, and
was not in violation of any provision of law. The particular
bond in that case was held void as being extorted under color
of office because it was in plain violation of the statute in
regard to giving such bond, and it was demanded of the party
upon the peril of losing his office. The court said under those
circumstances that the bond was an illegal instrument, "for
no officer of the Government has a right, by color of his office,
to require from any subordinate officer, as a condition of holding office, that he should execute a bond with a condition
different from that prescribed by law." The court also said
however: "That a voluntary bond taken by authority of the
proper officers of the Treasury Department, to whom the disbursement of the public moneys is entrusted, to secure the
fidelity in official duties of a receiver or an agent for disbursery of public moneys, is a binding contract between him and
his sureties and the United States; although such bond may
not be prescribed or required by any positive law. The right
to take such a bond is in our view an incident to the duties belonging to such a department; and the United States having a
political capacity to take it, we see no objection to its validity
in a moral or a legal view." See also United States v. laurice,
2 Brock. 96; Jessup v. United States, 106 U. S. 147, where the
same views are set forth.
The consideration or the condition of the bond must not be
in violation of law; it must not run counter to any statute;
it must not be either malum prohibitum or malum in se.
Otherwise and for all purposes of security, a bond may be
valid though no statute directs its delivery.
We do not understand by the decision in Peters,. above cited,
that the meaning of the term "voluntary bond" is that the
bond must have been offered and pressed upon the Government
when never asked for or demanded by it. It is a voluntary

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinipn of the Court.

bond when it is not demanded by any particular statute or
regulation based thereon, and when it is not exacted in violation of any law or valid regulation of a department. Having
the right to take a bond, the Government in a case like this
has the right to demand it from the officer, and to say to him
that if he do not give it he will not be continued as a "property and disbursing officer of the Signal Service." Such a
demand when complied with does not amount to the illegal
exaction or extortion of the bond. The case of a bond so procured differs radically from a case like that of Tingey (supra),
inasmuch as the bond in the latter case was extorted from a
reluctant officer with a condition therein contained different
from that which the statute called for.
The power of the Government to take bonds in cases of this
nature in the absence of any law or general regulation to that
effect, but by direction of the head of a department, was recognized again in the case of the United States v. Bradley, 10 Pet.
343, 359. In that case the bond taken contained conditions beyond those provided for in the act of Congress, yet it was held
that those conditions which were within the act were valid and
could not be regarded as extorted from the obligor, although
they were set forth in the same instrument which contained
other and illegal conditions. The case of Tingey (supra) was
cited by tht court and approved as to the principle that the
United States may take a bond as security, etc., when not in
violation of any statute.
:In this case we think the bond was a voluntary bond in
the sense that it was not illegally extorted from the defendant Howgate, under color of office or by threats from a superior officer; that the United States through the Secretary
of War had the riglt to demand a bond with conditions such
as the bond in question contains, and that it did not cease to
be a voluntary bond merely because Lieutenant Howgate did
not gratuitously and without request proffer it and ask that it
might be received, or because he was reluctant to give it, and
only gave it upon the demand of the Secretary. Under the
facts developed in this case, situated as Lieutenant Howgate
was with respect to the public moneys, the United States,

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

having the right to take a bond, had the right to demand
it under penalty of refusing to permit him to longer remain
as a disbursing officer or to further receive public moneys for
disbursement by him. An action brought in the Southern
District of New York by the United States against Rogers,
one of the sureties on this same bond, was decided in favor
of the Government by the United States District Court,
United States v. Rogers, 28 Fed. Rep. 607, and that judgment was affirmed by the United States Circuit Court in
the Southern District of New York. Rogers v. United States,
32 Fed. Rep. 890. On writ of error to this court the judgment was affirmed, but not on any ground affecting the
merits. Both the District and Circuit Courts held the bond
was good, and adjudged accordingly.
We are, in view of all the facts, of opinion that the refusal
to admit the evidence offered by defendants' counsel upon this
issue did not constitute any error on the part of the learned
trial court.
(4). Another objection taken by the defendants is that this
bond is void for uncertainty, because there was no law creating any such position as that "of property and disbursing
officer of the Signal Service, U. S. A.," nor any law or army
regulation defining the duties of any such officer.
The Signal Service Corps as a branch of the Army was
known during the war. After its close and as long ago as
1870, Congress, by a joint resolution approved on the 9th day
of February of that year, authorized the Secretary of War to
provide for the taking of meteorological observations at the
military stations and other points in the interior of the continent, and for giving notice on the northern lakes and seaboard
of the approach and course of storms' On the 28th of February, 1870, the Secretary of War addressed a written communication to Brigadier General Meyer, Chief Signal Officer
of the Army, in which, after embodying the joint resolution,
as above referred to, the Secretary of War continued: "In
view of this enactment, I have to inform you that you as Chief
Signal Officer of the Army are charged with the duties to arise
1.nder the provisions of the same, subject to the direction of the

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of War." On the 10th of June, 1872, one of the appropriation bills was approved, in which was an appropriation
of $250,000 to provide materials and to pay for telegraphing
the weather reports under the authority and regulations of
the Secretary of War; and on the 27th of June, 1872, the
War Department directed, in a written communication addressed to the Chief of the United States Signal Corps, that
such officer and all persons who had been or should be thereafter designated and employed by him for the taking of
meteorological observations, etc., were thereby recognized and
appointed as agents of the War Department for those purposes. By fhe army appropriation act of 1874, 18 Stat. 72,
it was enacted that the Signal Service should be maintained
as then organized under the authority of the Secretary of
War. Thereafter and on the 25th of July, 1876, Lieutenant
Howgate, then acting Signal Officer and assistant at Washington, was duly assigned by the Chief Signal Officer to duty
as "property and disbursing officer" at the Signal Office at
Washington, with such other duties as might be assigned to
him. Appropriations of a similar nature to that above-mentioned act for the signal service have been constantly made
by Congress ever since.
The Revised Statutes also authorized, ยง 161, "The head of
each department to prescribe regulations not inconsistent with
law for the government of his department, the conduct of its
officers and clerks, and distribution and performance of its
business, and the custody and use and preservation of the
records, papers and property pertaining to it." Section 1094
of the Revised Statutes recognized the existence of the Chief
Signal Officer of the Army of the United States, and section
1195 gave to that officer the rank of colonel of cavalry, and
directed that under the direction of the Secretary of War he
should have charge of all signal duty and of all books, papers
and apparatus connected therewith.
Upon this evidence we think it apparent that in the proper
conduct of his office the Chief Signal Officer had the right to
designate one of the officers detailed for service under him as
a "property and disbursing officer," to whom should belong,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

as provided for in the order of such chief, the custody of all
government property and funds pertaining to the office of the
Chief Signal Officer, and that such Chief Signal Officer had
the power, under the general direction of the Secretary of
War, to provide that the property and disbursing officer should
be responsible for the due execution of his duties as such.(
The Secretary, among other ways, recognized and approved
the appointment of Howgate as a disbursing officer by
directing him to give a bond as such officer, and he thereby
recognized, and, in effect, provided, that there should be such
an office. Among the duties of such an office it is plain was
that of receiving and disbursing those moneys which had been
appropriated by Congress for the Signal Service, and which
came to him by reason of his designation as the property and
disbursing officer of that branch of the service at Washington.
If all the duties of such officer were not clearly specified and
defined by law or the regulations of the department in which
he was serving, it was at least clearly apparent that the public
moneys which he received he was bound to honestly disburse
and to account for to the proper officers of the Government.
As a security for the honest discharge of such duties the bond
in question was given, and one of the conditions of the bond
was that he should "faithfully expend all public moneys and
honestly account for the same, and for all public property
which shall or may come into his hands on account of the
Signal Service of the United States Army without fraud or
delay." When he was guilty of the forgery of vouchers and
the embezzling of the public moneys received by him as said
officer, there can be no doubt or uncertainty that such conduct
was a plain.violation of his duty as an officer, and that the
condition of the bond certainly and plainly covered such conduct, and was violated thereby.
The principle decided in Uited States v. Bradley, 10 Pet.
343, that bonds and other deeds may be, and in many cases
are, good in part and void for the residue, where the residue
is founded in illegality but not malumn in se, may be invoked
in this case. The two conditions of the bond were, (1) that
Lieutenant Howgate should carefully discharge the duties of

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

property and disbursing officer of the Signal Service; and (2)
that he should faithfully expend all public moneys, and honestly account, etc., as already stated. The condition that he
should carefully discharge the duties of the office might, perhaps, be regarded as somewhat vague, on account of the uncertainty as to what constituted all of those duties, but there
is neither vagueness nor uncertainty in the other condition,
above stated. If the first condition Were to be held void for
uncertainty, there is no valid reason for holding that the second condition is also void, although not at all uncertain. When
the cause of action consists in a breach of that particular condition of the bond which is plain, definite and certain, there is
no reason for denying a recovery because of the uncertainty of
another condition which need not be referred to in order to
sustain the action.
Counsel for defendants ask "what proof was there that it
was the duty of Howgate, under a bond with a penalty of
$12,000, to receive and disburse the enormous sums charged
against him in the 'consolidated transcript,' aggregating the
sum of $1,132,742.32, in the brief period of about two years ?"
The attention of the War Department had been called to the
Signal Service Office at Washington by reason of a requisition
for fifty thousand dollars, in February, 1878, to be paid to
Lieutenant Howgate as disbursing officer of the Signal Service. The answer to such requisition given from the War
Department, among other things, was that "requisitions for
advances should be for a less amount than fifty thousand
dollars, or should not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars
at any one time." The acts of Congress making appropriations for the Signal Service also show that a large amount of
public moneys would be disbursed in the course of each year
through the office of the Chief Signal Officer of the Army.
How much that sum would reach it was not necessary to
know accurately. A bond exacted for the sum of $12,000
was very likely demanded in view of the fact that frequent
settlements were customary between the officer and the Treasury Department, and that requisitions were not to be made
for any enormous sum at any one time. With such checks

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the receipt and disbursement of public moneys, it might
well have been thought that the amount demanded was sufficient. Reference was also had in the letter from the War
Department to the amount of the bond demanded of a commissary of subsistence, having the same rank, though in a
different branch of the service, and also charged with the
receipt and disbursement of large amounts of public moneys.
A bond in the same penalty as that given by such an officer was
evidently supposed to offer sufficient security for the Government. Although when the bond was executed it might not
have been supposed that the officer would have such large
sums to disburse, that fact forms no defence to an action on
the bond, which was conditioned for the honest disbursement
of the publib moneys, whatever might be their amount.
So far as this cause of action is concerned, the bond is not
void for uncertainty, and the exception of the defendants is
unsustained.
(5). The defendants also claim the existence of error in the
decision of the court below, that the'settlement of Howgate's
accounts was not a bar to the action. The evidence shows
that his accounts had been regularly stated and passed by
the accounting officers of the Treasury, and a certificate given
him of non-indebtedness. These facts the defendants say were
matters of record in the Treasury Department, and they urged
that the plaintiff should therefore be estopped from maintaining this action.
To the same effect is the objection that the Government is
estopped from maintaining this suit by the inequitable representations and conduct of their agents which misled the surety
Moses, to his.prejudice.
It is necessary to see what this alleged settlement was that
is set up by the defendants as a bar to the maintenance of this
action. It is seen by reference to paragraph 2394 of the army
regul6tions, which is set forth in the statement of facts, that
it was necessary to obtain certificates of non-indebtedness
before an officer retiring from the service could obtain final
payment of his salary. Immediately. upon his resignation
being offered, December 7, 1880, Lieutenant Howgate pro-

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ceeded to obtain the necessary certificates. He procured
froln the Third Auditor of the Treasury Department various
certificates under dates of October 1, December 10 and 23,
1880, January 6 and April 26, 1881. These certificates were
for different quarters for the years 1879 and 1880, and certified that the auditor had examined and adjusted the account
of 11. W. Howgate, Lieutenant, 20th Infantry, A. S. 0., and
found the same balanced, "as appears from the statement and
vouchers herewith transmitted for decision and certification."
The last certificate, signed by the Third Auditor, reads as
follows:
" Certi cate of 7on-indebtedness.
" TREAsURY DEPARTMENT,
"THIRD "AUDITOR'S OFFICE, April 26, 1881.
"It is hereby certified that the accounts and returns of
H. W. Hlowgate, Lt. 20th inf., late acting signal officer,
U. S. A., have been examined, found correct and are closed.
"This certificate is granted to satisfy the pay department
that the above-named officer is not indebted to the United
States on the- books of this office at the date hereof."
Certificates similar in their nature were obtained from the
offices of the Chief of Engineers, the Quartermaster, the Ordnance Department, Second Auditor's Office, the Paymaster's
and the Commissary General's Departments. Each certified
substantially that Howgate "was not charged on the books
of that office as a debtor to the United States," or "that his
returns had been received, examined and found correct," or
"that there were no charges remaining against him. on the
books of the office."
There is no proof that any one of these certificates was ever
seen by the sureties or was known by them to exist, nor
is there evidence that a settlement of any nature had ever
been made between the principal and his sureties based upon
or by reason of the certificates, nor that the conditioAi of the
sureties had been at all changed because of the existence of
the certificates or any one of them. The certificates were, of
course, based only upon what appeared after an examination
VOL. CLXvI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the books in each department. Undoubtedly they were
primafacie evidence of the facts they certified to, and in the
absence of any evidence of mistake or of fraud attacking the
integrity of the items, or any of them, appearing on the books
and upon which the certificates were based, they would be
conclusive in favor of the officer in any action against him.
Soule v. United States, 100 U. S. 8, 11; United States v. Bell,
111 U. S. 477; Euxparte Randolph, 2 Brock. 447, 475; United
States v. Ecekford, 1 How. 250, 263; United States v. Hunt,
105 U. S. 183, 187. They would not, however, be conclusive
as against evidence of the forgery of any vouchers upon which
the accounts had been founded and the settlement arrived at;
this is too plain for argument.
It is urged, however, that even if the certificates and books
upon which they were based would ordinarily be open to
explanation and would not be regarded by the courts as conelusive, the rule .isnevertheless changed in this case by the
action of the officers of the Government, by reason of which
the Government is estopped from showing the falsity of the
certificates and the forgery of the vouchers. The Govern-ment is charged with laches in failing to take proper means
of enforcing its demands against Howgate, and in failing to
promptly notify the sureties of the fact of his defalcation and
of their liability to respond on that account to the extent of
the penalty of the bond.
As late as April 26, 1881, the Government was ignorant of
any cause of suspicion against Lieutenant Howgate, for on that
date the Third Auditor of the Treasury Department certified
to the correctness of Howgate's accounts and returns. Between
that time and the 24th of August, 1881, the suspicions of the
officers of the Government were aroused, an examination of
the books was made, other investigations ,were entered upon,
and the facts of the defalcation discovered, and on the lastnamed daya suit was commenced against Howgate for the purpose of recovering the sum of $101,257.08. The "particulars
of demand," accompanying the declaration, showed that the
suit was commenced to recover money unlawfully drawn and
obtained by Howgate from the Treasury of the United States

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

on checks drawn by him on the Treasurer for the amount
stated, aggregating the amount sued for in the actiol. The
defendant appeared in the action by attorney, and finally
judgment for want of an answer was entered on the 24th of
May, 1883, and $28,000, subsequently realized on the sale of
the defendant's property, was credited on the judgment.
The suit had been commenced in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, and Howgate, the defendant, and Moses,
one of the sureties on his bond, were residents of the city of
Washington in that District, and had been for many years.
It is impossible to suppose that the fact of the alleged defalcation of Howgate was unknown to Moses. The record shows
that a personal service upon llowgate was not obtained for
the commencement of the action against him, which would
imply an inability to discover him within the District or else
his absence therefrom. The affidavit used upon obtaining the
attachment showed that Howgate was aware of the investigation going on in relation to his accounts, and that with such
knowledge he suddenly, and without declaring any other
business or reason for leaving, left the District without indicating how long he would remain or when, if ever, he would
return. The presumption is very strong from all these circumstances that Moses, after Howgate's departure from Washington, knew of the alleged defalcation and of the suit brought
by the Government against llowgate. There can be no wellfounded claim that such suit was not commenced promptly
and there is no evidence that it was not prosecuted with due
diligence, even though no answer had been put in up to the
time when the judgment was taken. Various reasons might
have existed for the delay between the commencement of the
action and the entry of judgment, which cannot be said to have
been unusual. There is nothing in the fact that the Government sued Howgate alone, without calling upon the sureties
in the bond which would operate to the injury of the sureties.
And there is no evidence that the sureties suffered any damage by reason of any action or lack of action on the part of
the Government.
As to the certificates of non-indebtedness, there is no legal

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court..

presumption that the sureties had any knowledge that these
certificates had ever been given to Howgate either at the
tine of or soon after his resignation, or at all. The case of
United States v. Alexander, 110 U. S. 325, does not hold that
there is any such presumption. In that case the Secretary of
the Treasury having abated taxes against the defendant, under
-in act of Congress, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
gave notice of the fact to the principals in the bond, who then
gave the same notice to their sureties, and the case was not
decided on the ground of any presumption of knowledge on
the part of the sureties as to the abatement.
We have looked at the cases cited by the counsel for the
defendants upon this branch of the case. They all show either
the giving of notice to the sureties of payment of the debt for
which they were originally liable, or an admission of payment of the debt by the holder thereof, or a declaration of the
holder of the security that he would exonerate the surety, or
else a reliance by the sureties upon some conduct of the holder
of the security towards them, and a necessary injury to them
if the holder should be permitted to subsequently assume a
-different attitude. The cases referred to are placed in the
margin.'
The. case here is entirely barren of evidence that the sureties
had knowledge of any fact going towards their exoneration,
or that they acted or failed to act in any particular with reference to their principal by reason of the conduct of the government officials or the existence of the certificates mentioned.
We are of opinion also that no such exonerating fact existed.
We are, therefore, unable to find either in the certificates
alluded to or in the action of the officials connected with the
Government anything precluding the inquiry as to the actual
and true state of the accounts upon which the judgment in
IUnited Mtates v. Alexander, 110 U. S. 325; Harris v. Brooks, 21 Pick.
195; Carpenter v. King, 9 Met. 511; Baker v. Briggs, 8 Pick. 121; Taylor v.
Lbhinan, 74 Indiana, 418; Thornburgh v. Madren, 33 Iowa, 380; Chambersv.
focran, 18 Iowa, 159; Gordon v. McCarty, 3 Wharton, 407; Brooking v. Farners' Bank, 83 Kentucky, 431; Aaron v. Mendel, 78 Kentucky, 427; 1 Greenl.
Ev. ยง 207.

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

this case rests. The exception of the defendants upon this
ground cannot prevail.
(6). The defendants also took exception to the decision of
the court below in permitting plaintiff to introduce certain
transcripts of the books and proceedings of the Treasury Department for the purpose of proving the actual state of the
accounts between the Government and Howgate. These transcripts were objected to on two grounds: (1) that they showed
on their face that they were mere statements of balances and
not the entire account between the parties; (2) that they
showed that the government officers had made a restatement
of Howgate's account after he ceased to be property and disbursing officer, and that there was nb authority for making
such restatement, and that it was not evidence against the
defendants. We think that neither objection is well founded.
The transcripts were received under section 886 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and were certified to under
the hand of the Secretary of the Treasury and the seal of the
Treasury Department, on the,19th of November, 1884. There
was also a certificate from the Third Auditor of the Treasury
Department attached to the papers and certifying that they
were transcripts from the books and proceedings of the Treasury Department, and that the papers annexed thereto were
true copies of the originals on file and of the whole of said
originals. Then followed a copy of the bond, and then another
certificate from the Third Auditor that he had "examined
and adjusted the account of H. W. Howgate, Lieutenant, 20th
Infantry, property and disbursing officer, Signal Service, U. S.
Army, from April, 1878, to September, 1880, and found the
balance as follows" (giving the balance for each fiscal year
for the years 1879, 1880 and 1881, and resulting in a balance
due the United States of $133,255.22). This last certificate
thus made by the Third Auditor does not purport to certify
to a copy of the whole account between the Government and
llowgate. The account which first follows the certificate is
termed a "consolidated settlement," and is simply a summary
of the amount, giving only the total amount due the United
States for each of the fiscal years stated. It does not purport

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to be the full account between the parties. Following that
summary or "consolidated account," however, are the transcripts from the books of the Treasury Department, containing
the account of Howgate, "property and disbursing officer,
Signal Service of the United States, with the United States,"
including items of credits and of disbursements. In other
words, both sides of the account are given in these transcripts
and also the items of difference; that is, those items of credit
which had been originally claimed by and allowed to Howgate, but which were subsequently disallowed by the accounting officers of the Government on a restatement of the account,
were given in full. This restatement had been made in 1884,
on the ground that many of the vouchers for items that had
been formerly allowed Howgate were forged or otherwise
fraudulent. Copies of the alleged fraudulent vouchers are
also set forth. If, therefore, the so called "consolidated
settlement" were inadmissible, as not being a full account, it
was wholly immaterial, because the same facts would appear
from an examination of the account, between Howgate and
the United States, both sides of which were contained in the
other transcripts accompanying that consolidated settlement.
We think the certificate as to those transcripts was entirely
sufficient, and the transcripts themselves were admissible as
sufficient transcripts from the books and proceedings of the
Treasury Department within section 886, Revised Statutes, and
that the certificate which certified that the papers annexed to
the transcript were true copies of the originals on file, and of
the whole of such originals, was a full compliance with law.
United States v. Pinson, 102 U. S. 548; United States v. Bell,
111 U. S. 477.
As to the objection that the transcripts show on their face
that the accounts therein referred to had been restated since
the acceptance of the resignation of Lieutenant Howgate, and
that there was no authority to make such restatement, we
think the objection untenable. As has been heretofore stated,
there had been no actual and formal settlement between the
Government and Howgate, and no admission made by the Government for the purpose of discharging him and his sureties

MOSES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

from liability on the bond. llowgate, for the purpose of
obtaining payment of his own salary, had procured certain
statements from various departments, acknowledging that by
the books of those departments he did not appear indebted to
the Government, and by virtue of those certificates he had
obtained final payment of his salary, but subsequently to that
time, when other facts became known, causing an investigation
into the state of the accounts, it became apparent that Lieutenant Howgate, at the time when he obtained these certificates
of non-indebtedness, was in truth a defaulter, and that he
owed the Government over a hundred thousand dollars. After
the final payment, of his salary, when these facts became
known, the Acting Chief Signal Officer made up a statement
of the account between Ilowgate and the Government, which
showed in detail the vouchers and checks which were known
to be fraudulent, with the names of witnesses, etc., which
statement was sent to the Secretary of War, together with a
report of the officer making up the account showing the true
state of the account. After that time, and in compliance with
the request of the Solicitor of the Treasury, the Secretary of
War sent to the Second Comptroller of the Treasury. this
statement of the account, together with a copy of the. report
of the Acting Chief Signal Officer which accompanied it, and
the Secretary stated that the papers were forwarded to the
Second Comptroller with a view to a restatement of the
accounts of Howgate for use in the suit on his bond of April 2,
1878.

It therefore appears that this so called restatement of the
account was no mere gratuitous and unsolicited work on the
part of the clerks of the Treasury Department, but that the restatement was made substantially by direction of the Secretary
of War, under the supervision of the Second Comptroller of
the Treasury, and asked for by the solicitor of that department,
and it was all done that from the books and proceedings of the
Treasury Department a transcript might be made that would
show the actual state of the accounts between the Government
and Howgate after excluding these false and forged vouchers
upon which he had obtained credit and by means of which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

was enabled to procure the certificates of non-indebtedness
above referred to. The idea that under circumstances like
these there would be no power in the officers of the Government to restate an account between the Government and an
officer by disallowing credits given him upon false and forged
vouchers cannot be entertained for a moment. The cases
already referred to in this opinion dispose of such a claim.
(7). One other objection was taken upon the trial, and that
was to the admission of the judgment recovered against Howgate by the Government.
Neither surety was a party to that judgment which was
solely against Howgate, and the record in that case was admitted in evidence under the objection and exception of the
defendants. We are of opinion that the judgment was properly admitted in evidence against the surety. It proved, at
least,_primafaciea breach of the bond by showing the amount
of public moneys which Howgate the principal had failed to
faithfully expend and honestly account for. It was far beyond
the penalty in the bond, and, unexplained, the judgment was
sufficient evidence of the breach of condition. Druminond v.
Executors of Prestman, 12 Wheat. 515 ; United States v. Allsbury, 4 Wall. 186; McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac, 7 How.
220; Stovall v. Banks, 10 Wall. 583; Washington Joe Co. v.
Webster, 125 U. S. 426.
This completes the examination of the various questions
which were argued at the bar by counsel for the defendants.
Other questions have been raised in the briefs and have received our careful attention. We find nothing in the record
which justifies a reversal of the judgment, and the same is,
therefore,
Afflrmed.

