OCTOBER TERM, 1953.
Syllabus.

346 U. S.

ARKANSAS v. TEXAS ET AL.
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A COMPLAINT.

No. -,

Original.

Argued October 21, 1953.-Decided
November .16, 1953.

Invoking the original jurisdiction of this Court under Art. III, § 2,

of the Constitution, Arkansas filed a motion for leave to file a
complaint against Texas. The complaint alleged that the University of Arkansas entered into a contract with a Texas charitable
corporation whereby the corporation agreed to contribute money
to the construction of a floor in a new hospital in the Arkansas
State Medical Center; that, though the corporation is willing to
perform, Texas has filed suit in the Texas courts to enjoin it on
the ground that under Texas law its funds must be expended for
the benefit of residents of Texas; and that the University has let
contracts for the construction of the hospital, now partially completed, but is without funds to proceed further unless Texas is
enjoined from interfering. Held:
1. The corporation is not an indispensable party to the suit.
Pp. 369-370.
2. The controversy is between two States, since the State of
Arkansas is the real party in interest in the contract with the
Texas corporation and the complaint alleges that Texas is unlawfully interfering with its performance. Pp. 370-371.
3. The question whether the corporation has authority to expend its funds in furtherance of the Arkansas project is a question of Texas law. Hence the present motion is continued, without any expression of opinion on the merits, until the litigation
in the Texas courts has been concluded. P. 371.

Thomas J. Gentry, Attorney General of Arkansas, and
E. J. Ball, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,

argued the cause for complainant. With them on the
brief was Kay Matthews, Assistant to the Attorney
General.
William H. Holloway and Marietta McGregor Creel,
Assistant Attorneys General of Texas, argued the cause
for defendants. With them on the brief was John Ben
Shepperd, Attorney General.

ARKANSAS v. TEXAS.
368

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a motion by Arkansas to file a complaint against
Texas and invoke our original jurisdiction granted by
Art. III, § 2, of the Constitution.
The complaint alleges that the University of Arkansas,
acting through its Board of Trustees, and the William
Buchanan Foundation, a corporation organized under the
laws of Texas, entered into a contract whereby the Foundation agreed to contribute a sum of $500,000 to the construction of a one-hundred-bed pediatric floor in a new
hospital in the Arkansas State Medical Center. The
allegations are that, though the University of Arkansas
and the Foundation are ready, willing, and able to perform, the State of Texas. acting through her Attorney
General, has filed suit in the Texas courts to enjoin the
Foundation from performing the contract on the ground
that under Texas law the trust funds of the Foundation
must be expended for the benefit of Texas residents. The
complaint further alleges that the University of Arkansas
is an official instrumentality of Arkansas, that in reliance
on the agreement with the Foundation it let contracts for
the construction of the hospital, proceeded with construction to the sixth floor, and is without funds to proceed
further unless Texas is enjoined from interference with
the contract.
We issued a rule to show cause wh leave to file the
complaint should not be granted, 345 U. S. 954. Texas
has made return to the rule and the case has been argued.
Texas first argues that the William Buchanan Foundation is an indispensable party to the suit. We do not
agree. The theory of the complaint is that Texas is
interfering without legal justification with Arkansas' contract with a third person. At least since Lumley v. Gye,
2 El. & Bl. 216, 118 Eng. Rep. 749 (Q. B. 1853), a cause of
action based on that tortious conduct has been recognized.
See Angle v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. R. Co., 151 U. S. 1,
13-15; Bitterman v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205,

OCTOBER TERM, 1953.
Opinion of the Court.

346 U. S.

222-223. However appropriate it might be to join the
Foundation as a defendant in the case (see Texas v.
Florida, 306 U. S. 398, 405), the controversy is between
Arkansas and Texas--the issue being whether Texas is
interfering unlawfully with Arkansas' contract.
The contention that the controversy is between two
States is challenged on the ground that the injured party
is the University of Arkansas, which does not stand in the
shoes of the State.- Arkansas must, of course, represent
an interest of her own and not merely that of her citizens
or corporations. Oklahoma v. Cook, 304 U. S. 387. But
as we read Arkansas law the University of Arkansas is an
official state instrumentality; and we conclude that for
purposes of our original jurisdiction any injury under the
contract to the University is an injury to Arkansas.
The University, which was created by the Arkansas
legislature,' is governed by a Board of Trustees appointed
by the Governor with consent of the Senate. The Board,
to be sure, is "a body politic and corporate" I with power
to issue bonds which do not pledge the credit of the State.'
But the Board must report all of its expenditures to the
legislature,' and the State owns all the property used by
the University.' The Board of Trustees is denominated
"a public agency" of the State,' the University is referred
to as "an instrument of the state in the performance of
a governmental work," 8 and a suit against the University
is a suit against the State.'
ISee Ark. Acts 1871, No. 44; Ark. Stat., 1947, § 80-2801, Compiler's Notes.
2 Ark. Stat., 1947, § 80-2802.
3 Ark. Stat., 1947, § 80-2804.
'Jacobs v. Sharp, 211 Ark. 865, 202 S. W. 2d 964.
5 Ark. Stat., 1947, § 80-2817.
Old., §§80-2849.ff.; 80-2905; 80-3311.
' Jacobs V. Sharp, 211 Ark., at 866, 202 S. W. 2d 964.
8 Vincenheller v. Reagan, 69 Ark. 460, 474, 64 S. W. 278, 284.
And see Gipson v. Ingram, 215 Ark. 812, 223 S. W. 2d 595.
9 See Allen Engineering Co. v. Kays, 106 Ark. 174, 152 S. W. 992.

ARKANSAS v. TEXAS.
368

JACKSON,

J., dissenting,

In determining whether the interest being litigated is
an appropriate one for the exercise of our original jurisdiction, we of course look behind and beyond the legal
form in which the claim of the State is pressed. We
determine whether in substance the claim is that of the
State, whether the State is indeed the real party in interest. Oklahoma v. Cook, supra, pp. 392-396. Arkansas
is in our view the real party in interest. The University
of Arkansas is her agency in the educational field-a
branch or department of the State.
The central question which the case tenders is whether
the William Buchanan Foundation has authority to spend
its funds for furtherance of this Arkansas project. That
is necessarily a question of Texas law, for the Foundation
gets its existence and its powers from Texas. Texas
courts speak with authority on those issues. Were we to
undertake to resolve the questions, we might find ourselves in conflict with the courts that have the final say.
Moreover litigation is now pending in the Texas courts
which will authoritatively determine what the Texas law
is. We therefore follow the course we have taken in
analogous situations (cf. Thompson v. Magnolia Co., 309
U. S. 478, 483; Herb v. Pitcairn,324 U. S. 117) and continue the present motion until the litigation in the Texas
courts has been concluded. If that litigation resolves
the whole controversy, leaving no federal questions, there
will be no occasion for us to proceed further.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

whom Ma.

TER, MR. JUSTICE CLARK and

JUSTICE FRANKFUR-

Ma. JUSTICE MINTON join,

dissenting.
We would deny this motion outright, because we think
no case is presented appropriate for original action here.

In 1923, William Buchanan, a citizen and resident of
Texas, executed within that State a conveyance of personal property to trustees. They, in Texas, duly ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1953.
JACKSON,

cepted the trust.

J., dissenting.

346 U. S.

The trust instrument recited the puf-

pose to create and endow an incorporated charitable
enterprise known as "The William Buchanan Foundation" in the City of Texarkana, Texas. Such a corporation was created by the State of Texas for the particular
purpose of carrying out the provisions of the trust deed
made by Buchanan.
It is needless to recite these purposes beyond saying
that they are broadly stated, and some clauses leave the
broadest discretion to the Foundation. Another clause
contemplates that the trust "shall be administered in
Bowie County, Texas, but for the benefit not only of the
citizens or residents of said county, but also for the benefit of the citizens or residents of adjoining counties, as
well as for the benefit of such other persons as in the
judgment of the Trustees should receive the benefits of
the activities or institutions establislhed hereunder."
That this instrument is open in good faith to different
interpretations seems apparent.
The trustees have made an agreement to expend a
large sum for a charity hospital at the University of
Arkansas, a state institution. The validity of that contract is questioned in the courts of Texas by the Attorney
General thereof, whose duties include some supervision
of the administration of charitable trusts.
If under these circumstances the courts of Texas cannot
finally decide the validity and interpretation of its own
charter and trust instrument and its corporation's power
to contract, then there is little left of the original conception of state power. This Court seems to agree that some
vestige, at least, of such power remains.
If a controversy between two states concerns the construction of a compact, Dyer v. Sims, 341 U. S. 22, or
presents "a question of 'federal common law' upon which
neither the statutes nor the decisions of either State can
be conclusive,!' Hinderliderv. La Plata Co., 304 U. S.92,

ARKANSAS v. TEXAS.
368

JACKSON,

373

J., dissenting.

110, this Court must, of course, determine their rights
inter sese.
Local questions may be intertwined with these ultimate federal rights, and if there are sufficient grounds
for delaying final action we may wait in order to "have
the advantage of the views of the state court." See Kentucky v. Indiana, 281 U. S. 163, 177.
But where, as here, we are concerned with a question
of Texas law in which the courts of that State necessarily
"have the final say" the only basis for our holding the
suit is to ride herd on the Texas court, on the assumption
that it may deny Arkansas some federal right. We
ought not to entertain such a possibility in the administration of justice of one state against a sister state. Of
course Arkansas will get justice in Texas, just as Texas
would get justice in Arkansas.

If Texas courts decide that the contract is valid, Arkansas has no grievance. If Texas decides the other way,
what more does this Court plan to do? What is the meaning of holding this case on the docket? We think the
Texas courts should be left to decide their state law questions without the threat implicit in keeping this case
alive. Exertion of a state's power to determine whether
a contract of its corporation is ultra vires cannot
be made a tortious interference with the rights of any
party to the contract. Since we think the contention is
frivolous, we would deny the motion and have done with
the business.

