JUNE 18 SPECIAL TERM, 1953.
Decision of the Court.

346 U. S.

ROSENBERG ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
MOTION TO VACATE A STAY.

No.

-,

June 18 Special Term, 1953.

Decided June 19, 1953.

After the stay granted by MR. JUSTICE DOUr.LAS had been vacated
by the Court, ante, p. 273, counsel for the Rosenbergs moved for
a further stay pending action by the President on a petition for
executive clemency. Held: Further stay denied.

Emanuel H. Bloch submitted the motion for a further
stay.
PER CURIAM.

Motion of the petitioners for a further stay of the
execution, as set forth in the written motion, is denied.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissents.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.

On the assumption that the sentences against the Rosenbergs are to be carried out at 11 o'clock tonight, their
counsel ask this Court to stay their execution until opportunity has been afforded to them to invoke the constitutional prerogative of clemency. The action of this
Court, and the division of opinion in vacating the stay
granted by MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, are, of course, a factor
in the situation, which arose within the last hour. It
is not for this Court even remotely to enter into the
domain of clemency reserved by the Constitution exclusively to the President. But the Court must properly
take into account the possible consequences of a stay or
of a denial of a stay of execution of death sentences upon
making an appeal for executive clemency. Were it estab'lished that counsel are correct in their assumption that
the sentences of death are to be carried out at 11 p. m.

ROSENBERG v. UNITED STATES.
322

Statement of

FRANKFURTER,

323

J.

tonight, I believe that it would be right and proper for
this Court formally to grant a stay with a proper timelimit to give appropriate opportunity for the process of
executive clemency to operate. I justifiably assume,
however, that the time for the execution has not been
fixed as of 11 o'clock tonight. Of course I respectfully
assume that appropriate consideration will be given to a
clemency application by the authority constitutionally
charged with the clemency function.

