OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Syllabus

431 U. S.

MOORE v. CITY OF EAST CLEVELAND, OHIO
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO,
CUYAHOGA COUNTY

No. 75-6289. Argued November 2, 1976-Decided May 31, 1977
Appellant lives in her East Cleveland, Ohio, home with her son and two
grandsons (who are first cousins). An East Cleveland housing ordinance
limits occupancy of a dwelling unit to members of a single family, but
defines "family" in such a way that appellant's household does not
qualify Appellant was convicted of a criminal violation of the ordinance. Her conviction was upheld on appeal over her claim that the
ordinance is unconstitutional. Appellee city contends that the ordinance
should be sustained under Village of Belle Terre v Boraas, 416 U. S. 1,
which upheld an ordinance imposing limits on the types of groups that
could occupy a single dwelling unit. Held. The judgment is reversed.
Pp. 498-506; 513-521.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICE POWELL, joined by MR JusTicn BRENNAN, MR. JUSTICE
MARSHALL, and MR. JUsTICE BLACKMUN, concluded that the ordinance
deprived appellant of her liberty in violation of the Due Process Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(a) This case is distinguishable from Belle Terre, supra, where the
ordinance affected only unrelated individuals. The- ordinance here
expressly selects certain categories of relatives who may live together
and declares that others may not, in this instance makng it a crime for
a grandmother to live with her grandson. Pp. 498-499.
(b) When the government intrudes on choices concerning family
living arrangements, the usual deference to the legislature is inappropriate; and the Court must examine carefully the importance of the
governmental interests advanced and the extent to which they are served
by the challenged regulation. P 499.
(c) The ordinance at best has but a tenuous relationship to the
objectives cited by the city- avoiding overcrowding, traffic congestion,
and an undue financial burden on the school system. Pp. 499-500.
(d) The strong constitutional protection of the sanctity of the family
established in numerous decisions of this Court extends to the family
choice involved m this case and is not confined within an arbitrary
boundary drawn at the limits of the nuclear family (essentially a couple

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
Opinion of POWELL, J.

494

and their dependent children). Appropriate limits on substantive due
process come not from drawing arbitrary lines but from careful "respect
for the teachings of history [and] solid recognition of the basic values
that underlie our society" Griswold v Connecticut, 381 U. S. 479, 501
(Harlan, J., concurring). The history and tradition of this Nation
compel a larger conception of the family Pp. 500-506.
Ma. JusTicE STEvENs concluded that under the limited standard of
review preserved in Euclid v Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365, and
Nectow v. Cambndge, 277 U. S. 183, before a zoning ordinance can
be declared unconstitutional it must be shown to be clearly arbitrary
and unreasonable as having no substantial relation to the public health,
safety, morals, or general welfare; that appellee city has failed totally to
explain the need for a rule that would allow a homeowner to have
grandchildren live with her if they are brothers but not if they are
cousins; and that under that standard appellee city's unprecedented ordinance constitutes a taking of property without due process and without
just compensation. Pp. 513-521.
POWELL, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an

opinion in which BRENNAN, MARSHALL, and BrCKcmuN, J3., joined.
BRENNxA,
J., filed a concurring opinion, in which MARsHALL, J., joined,
J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment,
C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 521.
STEWART, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which REHNQUIST, J., joined,
post, p. 531. WHius, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 541.

post, p. 506.
post, p. 513.

STEVENS,

BURGER,

Edward R. Stege, Jr., argued the cause for appellant. With
him on the brief were FrancesD Murtaugh,Jr., and Lloyd B
Snyder
Leonard Young argued the cause for appellee.
on the brief was Henry B Fischer*

With hn

MR. JUSTICE PowELL announced the judgment of the Court,

and delivered an opinion in which MR. JusTICE BRENNAN,
MR. JUSTICE MAPSHALL, and MR. JusTIcE, BLACXMUNw joined.

East Cleveland's housing ordinance, like many throughout
the country, limits occupancy of a dwelling unit to members
*Melvn L. Wulf and Benjamin Sheerer filed a brief for the American
Civil Liberties Union et al. as amwz curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of POWELL, J.

431 U. S.

of a single family ยง 1351.02.' But the ordinance contains
an unusual and complicated definitional section that recognizes
as a "family" only a few categories of related individuals.
ยง 1341.08.2 Because her family, living together in her home,
fits none of those categories, appellant stands convicted of a
criminal offense. The question in this case is whether the
ordinance violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.'
I
Appellant, Mrs. Inez Moore, lives in her East Cleveland
home together with her son, Dale Moore, Sr., and her two
grandsons, Dale, Jr., and John Moore, Jr. The two boys are
first cousins rather than brothers, we are told that John
I All citations by section number refer to the Housing Code of the city of
East Cleveland, Ohio.
2Section 1341.08 (1966) provides:
"'Family' means a number of individuals related to the nominal head
of the household or to the spouse of the nominal head of the household
living as a single housekeeping unit in a single dwelling unit, but limited
to the following:
"(a) Husband or wife of the nominal head of the household.
"(b) Unmarried children of the nominal head of the household or of
the spouse of the nominal head of the household, provided, however, that
such unmarried children have no children residing with them.
"(c) Father or mother of the nominal head of the household or of the
spouse of the nominal head of the household.
"(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) hereof, a family
may include not more than one dependent married or unmarried child of
the nominal head of the household or of the spouse of the nominal head
of the household and the spouse and dependent children of such dependent
child. For the purpose of this subsection, a dependent person is one who
has more than fifty percent of his total support furnished for him by the
nominal head of the household and the spouse of the nominal head of the
household.
"(e) A family may consist of one individual."
sAppellant also claims that the ordinance contravenes the Equal Protection Clause, but it is not necessary for us to reach that contention.

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

Opinion of POWELL, J.

came to live with his grandmother and with the elder and
younger Dale Moores after his mother's death.'
In early 1973, Mrs. Moore received a notice of violation from
the city, stating that John was an "illegal occupant" and
directing her to comply with the ordinance. When she failed
to remove him from her home, the city filed a criminal charge.
Mrs. Moore moved to dismiss, claiming that the ordinance
was constitutionally invalid on its face. Her motion was
overruled, and upon conviction she was sentenced to five days
in jail and a $25 fine. The Ohio Court of Appeals affirmed
after giving full consideration to her constitutional claims,'
4 Bef for Appellant 4, 25. John's father, John Moore, Sr., has apparently been living with the family at least since the time of trial.
Whether he was living there when the citation was issued is in dispute.
Under the ordinance his presence too probably would be a violation.
But we take the case as the city has framed it. The citation that led
to prosecution recited only that John Moore, Jr., was in the home m
violation of the ordinance.
5
The dissenting opinion of THE CHIus JUSTICE suggests that Mrs.
Moore should be denied a hearing m this Court because she failed to seek
discretionary administrative relief in the form of a variance, relief that is
no longer available. There are sound reasons for requiring exhaustion of
administrative remedies in some situations, but such a requirement is
wholly inappropriate where the party is a criminal defendant in circumstances like those present here. See generally McKart v United States,
395 U. S. 185 (1969). Mrs. Moore defends against the State's prosecution
on the ground that the ordinance is facially invalid, an issue that the zoning review board lacks competency to resolve. In any event, this Court
has never held that a general principle of exhaustion could foreclose a
criminal defendant from asserting constitutional invalidity of the statute
under which she is being prosecuted. See, e. g., Yakus v United States,
321 U. S. 414, 446-447 (1944).
Moreover, those cases that have demed certain nonconstitutional defenses to criminal defendants for failure to exhaust remedies did so pursuant to statutes that implicitly or explicitly mandated such a holding.
See, e. g., Falbo v United States, 320 U. S. 549 (1944), Yakus v United
States, supra, McGee v United States, 402 U. S. 479 (1971). Because
of the statutes the defendants were on notice that failure to pursue avail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of POWELL, J.

431 U. S.

and the Ohio Supreme Court denied review We noted
probable jurisdiction of her appeal, 425 U S. 949 (1976)
II
The city argues that our decision in Village of Belle Terre v
Boraas,416 U S. 1 (1974), requires us to sustain the ordinance
attacked here. Belle Terre, like East Cleveland, inposed
limits on the types of groups that could occupy a single
dwelling unit. Applying the constitutional standard announced in this Court's leading land-use case, Euclid v Ambler Realty Co., 272 U S. 365 (1926),' we sustained the Belle
Terre ordinance on the ground that it bore a rational relationship to permissible state objectives.
But one overriding factor sets this case apart from Belle
Terre. The ordinance there affected only unrelated individuals. It expressly allowed all who were related by "blood,
adoption, or marriage" to live together, and in sustaining the
ordinance we were careful to note that it promoted "family
needs" and "family values." 416 U S., at 9. East Cleveland,
in contrast, has chosen to regulate the occupancy of its housing by slicing deeply into the family itself. This is no mere
incidental result of the ordinance. On its face it selects cerable administrative relief might result in forfeiture of a defense in an enforcement proceeding. But here no Ohio statute or ordinance required
exhaustion or gave Mrs. Moore any such warning. Indeed, the Ohio courts
entertained all her clains, perceiving no denigration of state administrative
process in according full judicial review
6
Euclid held that land-use regulations violate the Due Process Clause
if they are "clearly arbitrary and unreasonable, having no substantial relation to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare." 272 U. S.,
at 395. See Nectow v Cambridge, 277 U. S. 183, 188 (1928). Later cases
have emphasized that the general welfare is not to be narrowly understood;
it embraces a broad range of governmental purposes. See Berman v
Parker, 348 U. S. 26 (1954). But our cases have not departed from the
requirement that the government's chosen means must rationally further
some legitimate state purpose.

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

Opinion of

POWELL, J.

tam categories of relatives who may live together and declares
that others may not. In particular, it makes a crime of a
grandmother's choice to live with her grandson in circumstances like those presented here.
When a city undertakes such intrusive regulation of the
family, neither Belle Terre nor Euclid governs, the usual
judicial deference to the legislature is inappropriate. "This
Court has long recognized that freedom of personal choice
in matters of marriage and family life is one of the liberties
protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment."
Cleveland Board of Educatwn v LaFleur,
414 U S. 632, 639-640 (1974)
A host of cases, tracing
their lineage to Meyer v Nebraska, 262 U S. 390, 399-401
(1923), and Pierce v Society of Sisters, 268 U S. 510, 534-535
(1925), have consistently acknowledged a "private realm
of family life which the state cannot enter." Prince v Massachusetts, 321 U S. 158, 166 (1944)
See, e. g., Roe v Wade,
410 U S. 113, 152-153 (1973), Wisconsin v Yoder, 406
U S. 205, 231-233 (1972), Stanley v Illinois, 405 U S.
645, 651 (1972), Ginsberg v New York, 390 U S. 629, 639
(1968), Griswold v Connecticut, 381 U S. 479 (1965), id.,
at 495-496 (Goldberg, J., concurring), id., at 502-503 (WrnTZ,
J., concurring), Poe v Ullman, 367 U S. 497, 542-544, 549-553
(1961) (Harlan, J., dissenting), cf. Loving v Virginia, 388
U S. 1, 12 (1967), May v Anderson, 345 U S. 528, 533 (1953),
Skinner v Oklahoma ex rel. Williamson, 316 U S. 535, 541
(1942)
Of course, the family is not beyond regulation. See
Prince v Massachusetts, supra, at 166. But when the government intrudes on choices concerning family living arrangements, this Court must examine carefully the importance of
the governmental interests advanced and the extent to which
they are served by the challenged regulation. See Poe v
Ullman, supra, at 554 (Harlan, J., dissenting)
When thus examined, this ordinance cannot survive. The
city seeks to justify it as a means of preventing over-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of POWELL, J.

431 U. S.

crowding, minimizing traffic and parking congestion, and
avoiding an undue financial burden on East Cleveland's
school system. Although these are legitimate goals, the
ordinance before us serves them marginally, at best.7 For
example, the ordinance permits any family consisting only of
husband, wife, and unmarried children to live together, even
if the family contaans a half dozen licensed drivers, each with
his or her own car. At the same time it forbids an adult
brother and sister to share a household, even if both faithfully use public transportation. The ordinance would permit
a grandmother to live with a single dependent son and children, even if his school-age children number a dozen, yet it
forces Mrs. Moore to find another dwelling for her grandson
John, simply because of the presence of his uncle and cousin m
the same household. We need not labor the point. Section

1341.08 has but a tenuous relation to alleviation of the conditions mentioned by the city

III
The city would distinguish the cases based on Meyer and
Pierce. It points out that none of them "gives grandmothers
any fundamental rights with respect to grandsons," Brief for
Appellee 18, and suggests that any constitutional right to live

together as a family extends only to the nuclear familyessentially a couple and their dependent children.
To be sure, these cases did not expressly consider the family
relationship presented here. They were immediately concerned with freedom of choice with respect to childbearing,
e. g., LaFleur,Roe v Wade, Gmswold, supra,or with the rights
7 It is significant that East Cleveland has another ordinance specifically
addressed to the problem of overcrowding. See United States Dept. of
Agriculture v Moreno, 413 U. S. 528, 536-537 (1973). Section 1351.03
limits population density directly, tying the maximum permissible occupancy of a dwelling to the habitable floor area. Even if John, Jr., and
his father both remain in Mrs. Moore's household, the family stays well
within these limits.

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
Opinion of PoWELL, J.

494

of parents to the custody and companionship of their own
children, Stanley v Illinois, supra, or with traditional parental
authority in matters of child rearing and education. Yoder,
Ginsberg, Pierce, Meyer, supra. But unless we close our eyes
to the basic reasons why certain rights associated with the
family have been accorded shelter under the Fourteenth
Amendment's Due Process Clause, we cannot avoid applying
the force and rationale of these precedents to the family choice
involved in this case.
Understanding those reasons requires careful attention to
this Court's function under the Due Process Clause. Mr.
Justice Harlan described it eloquently"Due process has not been reduced to any formula, its
content cannot be determined by reference to any code.
The best that can be said is that through the course
of this Court's decisions it has represented the balance
which our Nation, built upon postulates of respect for
the liberty of the individual, has struck between that
liberty and the demands of organized society If the supplying of content to this Constitutional concept has of
necessity been a rational process, it certainly has not been
one where judges have felt free to roam where unguided
speculation might take them. The balance of which I
speak is the balance struck by this country, having regard
to what history teaches are the traditions from which it
developed as well as the traditions from which it broke.
That tradition is a living thing. A decision of this Court
which radically departs from it could not long survive,
while a decision which builds on what has survived is
likely to be soundEs:I No formula could serve as a substitute, in this area, for judgment and restraint.
8 This

explains why Meyer and Pierce have survived and enjoyed fre-

quent reaffirmance, while other substantive due process cases of the same

era have been repudiated-including a number written, as were Meyer
and Pierce, by Mr. Justice McReynolds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of POWELL, J

431 U. S.

"

[T]he full scope of the liberty guaranteed by
the Due Process Clause cannot be found in or limited
by the precise terms of the specific guarantees elsewhere provided in the Constitution. This 'liberty' is not
a series of isolated points pricked out in terms of the
taking of property; the freedom of speech, press, and
religion, the right to keep and bear arms, the freedom
from unreasonable searches and seizures, and so on. It
is a rational continuum which, broadly speaking, includes
a freedom from all substantial arbitrary impositions and
purposeless restraints,
and which also recognizes,
what a reasonable and sensitive judgment must, that
certain interests require particularly careful scrutiny of
the state needs asserted to justify their abridgment."
Poe v Ullman, supra, at 542-543 (dissenting opinion)
Substantive due process has at times been a treacherous
field for this Court. There are risks when the judicial branch
gives enhanced protection to certain substantive liberties without the guidance of the more specific provisions of the Bill
of Rights. As the history of the Lochner era demonstrates,
there is reason for concern lest the only limits to such
judicial intervention become the predilections of those who
happen at the time to be Members of this Court2 That
history counsels caution and restraint. But it does not counsel abandonment, nor does it require what the city urges
here. cutting off any protection of family rights at the first
convenient, if arbitrary boundary-the boundary of the nuclear family
9 Lochner v New York, 198 U. S. 45 (1905). See North Dakota Pharmacy Bd. v Snyder's Drug Stores, Inc., 414 U. S. 156, 164-167 (1973),
Griswold v Connecticut, 381 U S. 479, 514-527 (1965) (Black, J., dissenting), Ferguson v Skrupa, 372 U. S. 726 (1963), Baldwin v Missouri,
281 U. S. 586, 595 (1930) (Holmes, J., dissenting), G. Gunther, Cases and
Materials on Constitutional Law 550-596 (9th ed. 1975).

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

Opinion of PowELL,, J.

Appropriate limits on substantive due process come not
from drawing arbitrary lines but rather from careful "respect
for the teachings of history [and] solid recognition of the basic
values that underlie our society"
Griswold v Connecticut,
381 U S., at 501 (Harlan, J., concurring)11 See generally
Ingraham v Wright, 430 U. S. 651, 672-674, and nn. 41, 42
(1977), Joint Antz-Fasctst Refugee Committee v McGrath,
341 U S. 123, 162-163 (1951) (Frankfurter, J., concurring),
Lochner v New York, 198 U S. 45, 76 (1905) (Holmes, J.,
dissenting)
Our decisions establish that the Constitution
protects the sanctity of the family precisely because the institution of the family is deeply rooted in this Nation's history
and tradition."2 It is through the family that we inculcate and
20 A similar restraint marks our approach to the questions whether an

asserted substantive right is entitled to heightened solicitude under the
Equal Protection Clause because it is "explicitly or implicitly guaranteed
by the Constitution," San Antonio Independent School Dzst. v. Rodriguez,
411 U. S. 1, 33-34 (1973), and whether or to what extent a guarantee
in the Bill of Rights should be "incorporated" in the Due Process Clause
because it is "necessary to an Anglo-American regime of ordered liberty"
Duncan v Louisiana,391 U. S. 145, 149-150, n. 14 (1968), see Johnson v
Lousiana,406 U S. 356, 372 n. 9 (1972) (opinion of POWELL, J.).
1For a recent suggestion that the holding m Griswold is best understood in this fashion, see Pollak, Comment, 84 Yale L. J. 638, 650-653
(1975). "[I]n due course we will see Grisw,ld as a reaffirmation of the
Court's continuing obligation to test the justifications offered by the state
for state-imposed constraints which significantly hamper those modes of
individual fulfillment which are at the heart of a free society" Id., at
653.
12In Wisconsin v Yoder, 406 U. S. 205 (1972), the Court rested its
holding in part on the constitutional right of parents to assume the
primary role in decisions concerning the rearing of their children. That
right is recognized because it reflects a "strong tradition" founded on "the
history and culture of Western civilization," and because the parental role
"is now established beyond debate as an enduring American tradition."
Id., at 232. In Ginsberg v New York, 390 U. S. 629 (1968), the Court
spoke of the same right as "basic in the structure of our society" Id., at
639. Griswold v Connecticut, supra, struck down Connecticut's anticon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of POWELL, J.

431 U. S.

pass down many of our most cherished values, moral and
cultural. 13
Ours is by no means a tradition limited to respect
for the bonds uniting the members of the nuclear family
The tradition of uncles, aunts, cousins, and especially
grandparents sharing a household along with parents and
children has roots equally venerable and equally deserving
of constitutional recognition. 4 Over the years millions
traception statute. Three concurring Justices, relying on both the Ninth
and Fourteenth Amendments, emphasized that "the traditional relation of
the family" is "a relation as old and as fundamental as our entire civilization." 381 U S., at 496 (Goldberg, J., joined by Warren, C. J., and
BRENNAN, J., concurring)
Speaking of the same statute as that involved
m Gr swold, Mr. Justice Harlan wrote, dissenting in Poe v Ullman, 367
U. S. 497, 551-552 (1961) "[H]ere we have not an intrusion into the home
so much as on the life which characteristically has its place in the
home.
The home derives its pre-eminence as the seat of family life.
And the integrity of that life is something so fundamental that it has been
found to draw to its protection the principles of more than one explicitly
granted Constitutional right."
Although he agrees that the Due Process Clause has substantive content,
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

m dissent expresses the fear that our recourse to his-

tory and tradition will "broaden enormously the horizons of the Clause."
Post, at 549-550. To the contrary, an approach grounded m history
imposes limits on the judiciary that are more meaningful than any based on
the abstract formula taken from Palko v Connecticut,302 U. S.319 (1937),
and apparently suggested as an alternative. Cf. Duncan v Louisana,
supra, at 149-150, n. 14 (rejecting the Palko formula as the basis for
deciding what procedural protections are required of a State, in favor of a
historical approach based on the Anglo-American legal tradition). Indeed,
the passage cited in MR. JusTicE WHITE's dissent as "most accurately
reflect[ing] the thrust of prior decisions" on substantive due process, post,
at 545, expressly points to history and tradition as the source for "supplying
content to this Constitutional concept." Poe v Ullman, supra,
at 542 (Harlan, J., dissenting)
'3 See generally Wilkinson & White, Constitutional Protection for Personal Lifestyles, 62 Cornell L. Rev 563, 623-624 (1977)
:4 See generally B. Yorburg, The Changing Family (1973),
Bronfenbrenner, The Calamitous Decline of the American Family, Washington

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

Opinion of POWELL, J.,

of our citizens have grown up in just such an environment,
and most, surely, have profited from it. Even if conditions
of modern society have brought about a decline m extended
family households, they have not erased the accumulated
wisdom of civilization, gamed over the centuries and honored
throughout our history, that supports a larger conception of
the family Out of choice, necessity, or a sense of family responsibility, it has been common for close relatives to draw
together and participate in the duties and the satisfactions of a
common home. Decisions concerning child rearing, which Yoder, Meyer, Pterce and other cases have recognized as entitled
to constitutional protection, long have been shared with grandparents or other relatives who occupy the same householdindeed who may take on major responsibility for the rearing
of the children." Especially in times of adversity, such as the
death of a spouse or economic need, the broader family has
tended to come together for mutual sustenance and to maintain or rebuild a secure home life. This is apparently what,
happened here."6
Whether or not such a household is established because
of personal tragedy, the choice of relatives in this degree
Post, Jan. 2, 1977, p. C1. Recent census reports bear out the importance
of family patterns other than the prototypical nuclear family In 1970,
26.5% of all families contained one or more members over 18 years
of age, other than the head of household and spouse. U. S. Department
of Commerce, 1970 Census of Population, vol. 1, pt. 1, Table 208. In
1960 the comparable figure was 26.1%. U. S. Department of Commerce,
1960 Census of Population, vol. 1, pt. 1, Table 187 Earlier data are not

available.
5 Cf. Pnnce v Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158 (1944), which spoke broadly
of family authority as against the State, in a case where the child was being
reared by her aunt, not her natural parents.
16 We are told that the mother of John Moore, Jr., died when he was
less than one year old. He, like uncounted others who have suffered a
similar tragedy, then came to live with the grandmother to provide the
infant with a substitute for his mother's care and to establish a more
normal home environment. Brief for Appellant 25.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J., concurring

431 U. S.

of kinship to live together may not lightly be denied by
the State. Pierce struck down an Oregon law requiring
all children to attend the State's public schools, holding that
the Constitution "excludes any general power of the State
to standardize its children by forcing them to accept instruction from public teachers only" 268 U S., at 535. By
the same token the Constitution prevents East Cleveland
from standardizing its children-and its adults-by forcing
all to live in certain narrowly defined family patterns.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE BRENNAN, with whom

MR.

JusTICE MARSHALL

joins, concurring.
I join the plurality's opinion. I agree that the Constitution
is not powerless to prevent East Cleveland from prosecuting
as a criminal and jailing' a 63-year-old grandmother for refusing to expel from her home her now 10-year-old grandson
who has lived with her and been brought up by her since his
mother's death when he was less than a year old. I do not
question that a municipality may constitutionally zone to
I This is a criminal prosecution which resulted m the grandmother's
conviction and sentence to prison and a fine. Section 1345.99 permits
inprisonment of up to six months, and a fine of up to $1,000, for violation
of any provision of the Housing Code. Each day such violation continues
may, by the terms of this section, constitute a separate offense.
2 Brief for Appellant 4. In addition, we were informed by appellant's
counsel at oral argument that
"application of this ordinance here would not only sever and disrupt the
relationship between Mrs. Moore and her own son, but it would disrupt
the relationship that is established between young John and young Dale,
which is in essence a sibling type relationship, and it would most
importantly disrupt the relationship between young John and his grandmother, which is the only maternal influence that he has had during his
entire life." Tr. of Oral Arg. 16.
The city did not dispute these representations, and it is clear that this
case was argued from the outset as requiring decision m this context.

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BRENNAN, J., concurring

alleviate noise and traffic congestion and to prevent overcrowded and unsafe living conditions, in short to enact reasonable land-use restrictions in furtherance of the legitimate
objectives East Cleveland claims for its ordinance. But the
zoning power is not a license for local communities to enact
senseless and arbitrary restrictions which cut deeply into
private areas of protected family life. East Cleveland may
not constitutionally define "family" as essentially confined to
parents and the parents' own children.3 The plurality's opmion conclusively demonstrates that classifying family patterns
in this eccentric way is not a rational means of achieving the
ends East Cleveland claims for its ordinance, and further that
the ordinance unconstitutionally abridges the "freedom of perfamily life [that] is one of the
sonal choice in matters of
liberties protected by the Due Process Clause of the FourCleveland Board of Education v
teenth Amendment."
LaFleur, 414 U S. 632, 639-640 (1974). I write only to
underscore the cultural myopia of the arbitrary boundary
drawn by the East Cleveland ordinance in the light of the
tradition of the American home that has been a feature of
our society since our beginning as a Nation-the "tradition"
in the plurality's words, "of uncles, aunts, cousins, and especially grandparents sharing a household along with parents and
" Ante, at 504. The line drawn by this ordichildren
3

The East Cleveland ordinance defines "family" to include, m addition

to the spouse of the "nominal head of the household," the couple's child-

less unmarried children, but only one dependent child (married or unmarried) having dependent children, and one parent of the nominal head
of the household or of his or her spouse. Thus an "extended family" is
authorized in only the most limited sense, and "family" is essentially confined to parents and their own children. Appellant grandmother was
charged with violating the ordinance because John, Jr., lived with her at
the same time her other grandson, Dale, Jr., was also living in the home;
the latter is classified as an "unlicensed roomer" authorized by the ordinance to live in the house.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J., concurring

431 U. S.

nance displays a depressing insensitivity toward the economic
and emotional needs of a very large part of our society
In today's America, the "nuclear family" is the pattern so
often found in much of white suburbia. J Vander Zanden,
Sociology- A Systematic Approach 322 (3d ed. 1975) The
Constitution cannot be interpreted, however, to tolerate the
imposition by government upon the rest of us of white suburbia's preference in patterns of family living. The "extended
family" that provided generations of early Americans with
social services and economic and emotional support in times of
hardship, and was the beachhead for successive waves of immigrants who populated our cities,4 remains not merely still a
pervasive living pattern, but under the goad of brutal economic
necessity, a prominent pattern-virtually a means of survivalfor large numbers of the poor and deprived minorities of our
society For them compelled pooling of scant resources requires compelled sharing of a household.'
4See Report of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders
278-281 (1968), Kosa & Nash, Social Ascent of Catholics, 8 Social Order
98-103 (1958), M. Novak, The Rise of the Unmeltable Ethmcs 209-210
(1972), B. Yorburg, The Changing Family 106-109 (1973), Kosa,
Rachiele, & Schommer, Sharing the Home with Relatives, 22 Marriage
and Family Living 129 (1960).
5
See, e. g., H. Gans, The Urban Villagers 45-73, 245-249 (1962).
"Perhaps the most important-or at least the most visible-difference
between the classes is one of family structure. The working class subculture is distinguished by the dominant role of the family circle.
"The specific characteristics of the family circle may differ widelyfrom the collateral peer group form of the West Enders, to the hierarchical
type of the Irish, or to the classical three-generation extended family
What matters most-and distinguishes this subculture from others-is
that there be a family circle which is wider than the nuclear family, and
that all of the opportunities, temptations, and pressures of the larger
society be evaluated m terms of how they affect the ongoing way of life
that has been built around this circle." Id., at 244-245 (emphasis in
original).

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BRENNAN, J.,

concurring

The "extended" form is especially familiar among black
families.'

We may suppose that this reflects the truism

that black citizens, like generations of white immigrants before
them, have been victims of economic and other disadvantages
that would worsen if they were compelled to abandon

extended, for nuclear, living patterns.7 Even in husband and
wife households, 13% of black families compared with 3% of
white families include relatives under 18 years old, in addi6

Yorburg, supra, n. 4, at 108. "Within the black lower-class it has been
quite common for several generations, or parts of the kin, to live together
under one roof. Often a maternal grandmother is the acknowledged head
of this type of household which has given rise to the term 'matrifocal' to
describe lower-class black family patterns." See J. Scanzom, The Black
Family in Modern Society 134 (1971), see also Anderson, The Pans and
Pleasures of Old Black Folks, Ebony 123, 128-130 (Mar. 1973). See
generally E. Frazier, The Negro Family in the United States (1939),
Lewis, The Changing Negro Family, in E. Ginzberg, ed., The Nation's
Children 108 (1960).
The extended family often plays an important role m the rearing of
young black children whose parents must work. Many such children frequently "spend all of their growing-up years in the care of extended
kin.
Often children are 'given' to their grandparents, who rear them
to adulthood.
Many children normally grow up in a three-generation
household and they absorb the influences of grandmother and grandfather
as well as mother and father." J. Ladner, Tomorrow's Tomorrow- The
Black Woman 60 (1972).
7The extended family has many strengths not shared by the nuclear
family
"The case histories behind mounting rates of delinquency, addiction,
crime, neurotic disabilities, mental illness, and senility in societies in which
autonomous nuclear families prevail suggest that frequent failure to develop enduring family ties is a serious inadequacy for both individuals
and societies." D. Blitsten, The World of the Family 256 (1963).
Extended families provide services and emotional support not always
found in the nuclear family"The troubles of the nuclear family in industrial societies, generally,
and m American society, particularly, stem largely from the inability of
this type of family structure to provide certain of the services performed
m the past by the extended family Adequate health, education, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J.,

concurring

431 U. S.

tion to the couple's own children.8 In black households whose
head is an eldcrly woman, as in this case, the contrast is even
more striking- 48% of such black households, compared with
10% of counterpart white households, include related mnor
children not offspring of the head of the household.'
I do not wish to be understood as implying that East Cleveland's enforcement of its ordinance is motivated by a racially
discriminatory purpose. The record of this case would not support that implication. But the prominence of other than
nuclear families among ethnic and racial nnority groups,
including our black citizens, surely demonstrates that the
"extended family" pattern remains a vital tenet of our
society 10 It suffices that in prohibiting this pattern of family
living as a means of achieving its objectives, appellee city has
chosen a device that deeply intrudes into family associational
rights that historically have been central, and today remain
central, to a large proportion of our population.
Moreover, to sanction the drawing of the family line at the
arbitrary boundary chosen by East Cleveland would surely
conflict with prior decisions that protected "extended" family
welfare provision, particularly for the two nonproductive generations in
modem societies, the young and the old, is increasingly an insurmountable
problem for the nuclear family The unrelieved and sometimes unbearably intense parent-child relationship, where childrearing is not shared
at least in part by others, and the loneliness of nuclear family units, increasingly turned m on themselves in contracted and relatively isolated
settings, is another major problem." Yorburg, supra, n. 4, at 194.
R. Hill, The Strengths of Black Families 5 (1972).
9
Id., at 5-6. It is estimated that at least 26% of black children live in
other than husband-wife families, "including foster parents, the presence of
other male or female relatives (grandfather or grandmother, older brother
or sister, uncle or aunt), male or female nonrelatives, [or with] only one
adult (usually mother) present
" Scanzom, supra, n. 6, at 44.
10
Novak, supra, n. 4, Hill, supra, at 5-6, N. Glazer & D Moynihan,
Beyond the Melting Pot 50-53 (2d ed. 1970), L. Rainwater & W Yancey,
The Moynihan Report and the Politics of Controversy 51-60 (1967).

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BRENNAN, J., concurring

relationships. For the "private realm of family life which
the state cannot enter," recognized as protected in Prince v
Massachusetts, 321 U S. 158, 166 (1944), was the relationship of aunt and niece. And in Pierce v Society of Sisters,
268 U S. 510, 534-535 (1925), the protection held to have
been unconstitutionally abridged was "the liberty of parents
and guardians to direct the upbringing and education of children under their control" (emphasis added) See also WisconIndeed, Vilsrn v Yoder, 406 U S. 205, 232-233 (1972)
S.
1
(1974),
the case
lage of Belle Terre v Boraas, 416 U
primarily relied upon by the appellee, actually supports
the Court's decision. The Belle Terre ordinance barred
only unrelated individuals from constituting a family in
a single-family zone. The village took special care m
its brief to emphasize that its ordinance did not in any
manner inhibit the choice of related individuals to constitute
a family, whether in the "nuclear" or "extended" form. This
was because the village perceived that choice as one it was
constitutionally powerless to inhibit. Its brief stated.
"Whether it be the extended family of a more leisurely age or
the nuclear family of today the role of the family in raising
and training successive generations of the species makes it
more important, we dare say, than any other social or legal
If any freedom not specifically mentioned
institution
rn the Bill of Rights enjoys a 'preferredpositon' in the law it
is most certainly the family." (Emphasis supplied.) Brief
for Appellants in No. 73-191, 0 T. 1973, p. 26. The cited
decisions recognized, as the plurality recognizes today, that
the choice of the "extended family" pattern is within the
family life
"freedom of personal choice in matters of
[that] is one of the liberties protected by the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment." 414 U S., at 639-640.
Any suggestion that the variance procedure of East
Cleveland's Housing Code assumes special significance is
without merit. This is not only because this grandmother

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., concurnng

431 U. S.

was not obligated to exhaust her administrative remedy
before defending this prosecution on the ground that the
single-family occupancy ordinance violates the Equal Protection Clause. Euclid v Ambler Realty Co., 272 U S. 365
(1926), the leading case m the zoning field, expressly held
that one attacking the constitutionality of a building or zoning
code need not first seek a variance. Id., at 386. Rather, the
matter of a variance is irrelevant also because the municipality
is constitutionally powerless to abridge, as East Cleveland has
done, the freedom of personal choice of related members of a
family to live together. Thus, the existence of the variance
procedure serves to lessen neither the irrationality of the definition of "family" nor the extent of its intrusion into family
life-style decisions.
There is no basis for an inference-other than the
city's self-serving statement that a hardship variance "possibly with some stipulation(s) would probably have been
granted"-that this grandmother would have obtained a variance had she requested one. Indeed, a contrary inference is
more supportable. In deciding to prosecute her in the first
place, the city tipped its hand how discretion would have
been exercised. In any event, ยง 1311.02 (1965), limits the discretion of the Board of Building Code Appeals to grant
variances to those which are "in harmony with the general
intent of such ordinance
" If one of the legitimate
objectives of the definition of "family" was to preserve the
single (nuclear) family character of East Cleveland, then
granting this grandmother a variance would be in excess of
the Board's powers under the ordinance.
Furthermore, the very existence of the "escape hatch" of
.the variance procedure only heightens the irrationality of the
restrictive definition, since application of the ordinance then
depends upon which family units the zoning authorities
permit to reside together and whom the prosecuting authorities choose to prosecute. The Court's disposition of the
analogous situation in Roe v Wade, 410 U S. 113 (1973),

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND

494

STEVENS, J., concurnng m judgment

is instructive. There Texas argued that, despite a rigid and
narrow statute prohibiting abortions except for the purpose
of saving the mother's life, prosecuting authorities routinely
tolerated elective abortion procedures in certain cases, such
as nonconsensual pregnancies resulting from rape or incest.
The Court was not persuaded that this saved the statute, Tim
CHIEF J sTIcE commenting that "no one in these circumstances should be placed in a posture of dependence on a
prosecutorial policy or prosecutorial discretion." Id., at 208
(concurring opinion)
Similarly, this grandmother cannot be
denied the opportunity to defend against this criminal prosecution because of a variance procedure that holds her family
hostage to the vagaries of discretionary administrative decisions. Smith v Cahoon, 283 U S. 553, 562 (1931)
We
have now passed well beyond the day when illusory escape
hatches could justify the imposition of burdens on fundamental rights. Stanley v Illinois, 405 U S. 645, 647-649
(1972), Staub v City of Baxley, 355 U S. 313, 319 (1958)
MR. J sTicE STnwvs, concurring in the judgment.
In my judgment the critical question presented by this case
is whether East Cleveland's housing ordinance is a permissible
restriction on appellant's right to use her own property as she
sees fit.
Long before the original States adopted the Constitution,
the common law protected an owner's right to decide how best
to use his own property This basic right has always been
limited by the law of nuisance which proscribes uses that
impair the enjoyment of other property in the vicinity But
the question whether an individual owner's use could be
further limited by a municipality's comprehensive zoning plan
was not finally decided until this century
The holding in Euclid v Ambler Realty Co., 272 U S.
365, that a city could use its police power, not just to
abate a specific use of property which proved offensive, but
also to create and implement a comprehensive plan for the use

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS,

J., concurring m judgment

431 U. S.

of land in the community, vastly diminished the rights of
individual property owners. It did not, however, totally
extinguish those rights. On the contrary, that case expressly
recognized that the broad zoning power must be exercised
within constitutional limits.
In his opinion for the Court, Mr. Justice Sutherland fused
the two express constitutional restrictions on any state mterference with private property-that property shall not be
taken without due process nor for a public purpose without
just compensation-into a single standard. "[B]efore [a zoning] ordinance can be declared unconstitutional, [it must be
shown to be] clearly arbitrary and unreasonable, having no
substantial relation to the public health, safety, morals, or
This
general welfare." Id., at 395 (emphasis added)
principle was applied in Nectow v Cambridge, 277 U S. 183,
on the basis of a specific finding made by the state trial court
that "the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the part of the city affected" would not be
promoted by prohibiting the landowner's contemplated use,
this Court held that the zoning ordinance as applied was
unconstitutional. Id., at 188.'
With one manor exception,2 between the Nectow decision
in 1928 and the 1974 decision in Village of Belle Terre v
Boraas, 416 U S. 1, this Court did not review the substance
of any zoning ordinances. The case-by-case development of
the constitutional limits on the zoning power has not, therefore, taken place in this Court. On the other hand, during
I The Court cited Zahn v Board of Public Works, 274 U. S. 325. The
statement of the rule m Zahn remains viable today"The most that can be said [of this zoning ordinance] is that whether that
determination was an unreasonable, arbitrary or unequal exercise of power
is fairly debatable. In such circumstances, the settled rule of this court
is that it will not substitute its judgment for that of the legislative body
charged with the primary duty and responsibility of determining the
question." Id., at 328.
2 Goldblatt v. Town of Hempstead, 369 U. S. 590.

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND

494

STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment

the past half century the broad formulations found in
Euclid and Nectow have been applied in countless situations
by the state courts. Those cases shed a revelatory light on
the character of the single-family zoning ordinance challenged
in this case.
Litigation involving single-family zoning ordinances is
common. Although there appear to be almost endless differences in the language used in these ordinances,' they contain
three principal types of restrictions. First, they define the
kind of structure that may be erected on vacant land. 4
Second, they require that a single-family home be occupied
only by a "single housekeeping unit." ' Third, they often
3See, for example, the various provisions quoted or paraphrased in
Brady v. Superior Court, 200 Cal. App. 2d 69, 80-81, n. 3, 19 Cal. Rptr.
242, 249 n. 3 (1962).
4As this Court recognized in Euclid, even residential apartments can
have a negative impact on an area of single-family homes.
"[O]ften the apartment house is a mere parasite, constructed in order to
take advantage of the open spaces and attractive surroundings created
[T]he coming of one apartby [a single-family dwelling area]
ment house is followed by others, interfering by their height and bulk
with the free circulation of air and monopolizing the rays of the sun
which otherwise would fall upon the smaller homes, and bringing, as their
necessary accompaniments, the disturbing noises incident to increased
traffic and business, and the occupation, by means of moving and parked
automobiles, of larger portions of the streets, thus detracting from their
safety and depriving children of the privilege of quiet and open spaces
for play, enjoyed by those in more favored localities,--until, finally, the
residential character of the neighborhood and its desirability as a place of
detached residences are utterly destroyed. Under these circumstances,
apartment houses, which in a different environment would be not only entirely unobjectionable but highly desirable, come very near to being
nuisances." 272 U. S., at 394-395.
5 Limiting use to single-housekeeping units, like limitations on the
number of occupants, protects the community's interest in mimmizmg
overcrowding, avoiding the excessive use of municipal services, traffic
control, and other aspects of an attractive physical environment. See
Village of Belle Terre v. Boraas, 416 U. S. 1, 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS,

J., concurring m judgment

431 U. S.

require that the housekeeping unit be made up of persons
related by blood, adoption, or marriage, with certain limited
exceptions.
Although the legitimacy of the first two types of restrictions
is well settled,6 attempts to limit occupancy to related persons
have not been successful. The state courts have recognized
a valid community interest in preserving the stable character
of residential neighborhoods which justifies a prohibition
against transient occupancy' Nevertheless, in well-reasoned
opinions, the courts of Illinois,' New York,' New Jersey,1 ยฐ
6 See nn. 4 and 5, supra, and also Professor N. Williams' discussion of the
subject m his excellent treatise on zoning law, 2 American Land Planning
Law 349-361 (1974)
Types of group living which have not fared well under single-family
ordinances include fraternities, Schenectady v Alumni Assm, 5 App. Div
2d 14, 168 N. Y. S. 2d 754 (1957), sororities, Casszdy v. Trnebel, 337 Ill.
App. 117, 85 N. E. 2d 461 (1948), a retirement home designed for over 20
people, Kellog v Jont Council of Women's Auxiliaries Welfare Assn.,
265 S. W 2d 374 (Mo. 1954), and a commercial therapeutic home for
emotionally disturbed children, Browndale Internationalv. Board of Adjustment, 60 Wis. 2d 182, 208 N. W 2d 121 (1973). These institutional uses
are not only inconsistent with the single-housekeeping-unit concept but
include many more people than would normally inhabit a single-family
dwelling.
"In City of Des Platnes v Trottner, 34 Ill. 2d 432, 216 N. E. 2d 116
(1966), the Illinois Supreme Court faced a challenge to a single-family zoning ordinance by a group of four unrelated young men who occupied a
dwelling m violation of the ordinance which provided that a "'family'
consists of one or more persons each related to the other by blood (or
adoption or marriage)
" Id., at 433, 216 N. E. 2d, at 117 In his
opinion for the court, Justice Schaefer wrote:
"When other courts have been called upon to define the term 'family'
they have emphasized the single housekeeping unit aspect of the term,
rather than the relationship of the occupants. [Citing cases.]

"In terms of permissible zoning objectives, a group of persons bound
together only by their common desire to operate a single housekeeping
[Footnotes9 and 10 are on page 517]

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

STEVENS, J.,

concurring in judgment

California,"1 Connecticut, 2 Wisconsin, 3 and other jurisdictions,' have permitted unrelated persons to occupy singlefamily residences notwithstanding an ordinance prohibiting,
either expressly or implicitly, such occupancy
unit, might be thought to have a transient quality that would affect

adversely the stability of the neighborhood, and so depreciate the value
of other property An ordinance requiring relationsbip by blood, marriage
or adoption could be regarded as tending to limit the intensity of land use.
And it might be considered that a group of unrelated persons would be
more likely to generate traffic and parking problems than would an equal
number of related persons.
"But none of these observations reflects a umversal truth. Family
groups are mobile today, and not all family units are internally stable and
well-disciplined. Family groups with two or more cars are not unfamiliar.
And so far as intensity of use is concerned, the definition in the present
ordinance, with its reference to the 'respective spouses' of persons related
by blood, marriage or adoption, can hardly be regarded as an effective
control upon the size of family units.
"The General Assembly has not specifically authorized the adoption of
zoning ordinances that penetrate so deeply as this one does into the
internal composition of a single housekeeping unit. Until it has done so,
we are of the opinion that we should not read the general authority that
it has delegated to extend so far." Id., at 436-438, 216 N. E. 2d, at
119-120.
9
In White Plains v Ferrazoli, 34 N. Y. 2d 300, 313 N. E. 2d 756
(1974), the Court of Appeals of New York refused to apply an ordinance
limiting occupancy of single-family dwellings to related individuals to a
"group home" licensed by the State to care for abandoned and neglected
children. The court wrote:
"Zoning is intended to control types of housing and living and not the
genetic or intimate internal family relations of human beings.
"Whether a family be organized along ties of blood or formal adoptions,
or be a similarly structured group sponsored by the State, as is the group
home, should not be consequential in meeting the test of the zoning
ordinance. So long as the group home bears the generic character of a
family unit as a relatively permanent household, and is not a framework
for transients or transient living, it conforms to the purpose of the
ordinance
" Id., at 305-306, 313 N. E. 2d, at 758.
- In Kirsch Holding Co. v Borough of Manasquan, 59 N. J. 241, 252,
[Footnote 11 is on page 518, footnotes 12, 13, and 14 are on page 519]

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS,

J., concurring in judgment

431 U. S.

These cases delineate the extent to which the state courts
have allowed zoning ordinances to interfere with the right of a
property owner to determine the internal composition of his
281 A. 2d 513, 518 (1971), the Supreme Court of New Jersey reviewed
a complex single-family zoning ordinance designed to meet what the court
recognized to be a pressing community problem. The community, a seaside resort, had been inundated during recent summers by unruly groups of
summer visitors renting seaside cottages. To solve the problems of excessive noise, overcrowding, intoxication, wild parties, and immorality that
resulted from these group rentals, the community passed a zoning ordinance
which prohibited seasonal rentals of cottages by most groups other than
"families" related by blood or marriage. The court found that even
though the problems were severe, the ordinance "preclude[d] so many
harmless dwelling uses" that it became "sweepingly excessive, and therefore
legally unreasonable." Ibid. The court quoted, zd., at 252, 281 A. 2d, at
519, the following language from Gabe Collins Realty, Inc. v Margate City,
112 N. J. Super. 341, 349, 271 A. 2d 430, 434 (1970), in a similar case as
"equally applicable here"
"Thus, even in the light of the legitimate concern of the municipality
with the undesirable concomitants of group rentals experienced in Margate
City, and of the presumption of validity of municipal ordinances, we are
satisfied that the remedy here adopted constitutes a sweepingly excessive
restriction of property rights as against the problem sought to be dealt
with, and in legal contemplation deprives plaintiffs of their property
without due process."
The court in Kirsch Holding Co., supra, at 251 n. 6, 281 A. 2d., at 518
n. 6, also quoted with approval the following statement from Manno v
Mayor & Council of Norwood, 77 N. J. Super. 587, 594, 187 A. 2d 217, 221

(1963)
"Until compelled to do so by a New Jersey precedent squarely in point,
this court will not conclude that persons who have economic or other
personal reasons for living together as a bona fide single housekeeping unit
and who have no other orientation, commit a zoning violation, with possible
penal consequences, just because they are not related."
1 A California appellate court in Brady v Superior Court, 200 Cal. App.
2d, at 81, 19 Cal. Rptr., at 250, allowed use of a single-family dwelling by
two unrelated students, noting:
"The erection or construction of a 'single family dwelling,' in itself,
would imply that any building so constructed would contain a central

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

STEVENS,

J., concurring in judgment

household. The intrusion on that basic property right has not
previously gone beyond the point where the ordinance defines
a family to include only persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption. Indeed, as the cases in the margin demonstrate,
state courts have not always allowed the intrusion to penetrate that far. The state decisions have upheld zoning
ordinances which regulated the identity, as opposed to the
number, of persons who may compose a household only to the
extent that the ordinances require such households to remain
nontransient, single-housekeeping units."5
kitchen, dining room, living room, bedrooms; that is, constitute a single
housekeeping unit. Consequently, to qualify as a 'single family dwelling'
an erected structure need only be used as a single housekeeping unit."
12 The Supreme Court of Connecticut allowed occupancy of a large
summer home by four related families because the families did "not
occupy separate quarters within the house, [but used] the lodging, cooking
and eating facilities [as] common to all." Neptune Park Assn. v Stemberg, 138 Conn. 357, 360, 84 A. 2d 687, 689 (1951).
13 The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, noting that "the letter killeth but
the spirit giveth life," 2 Corinthians 3:6, held that six priests and two
lay brothers constituted a "family" and that their use, for purely residential purposes of a single-family dwelling did not violate a single-family
zoning ordinance. Misszonares of Our Lady of LaSalette v Whitefish Bay,
267 Wis. 609, 66 N. W 2d 627 (1954).
14 Carroll v Miami Beach, 198 So. 2d 643 (Fla. App. 1967), Robertson
v Western Baptist Hospital, 267 S. W 2d 395 (Ky App. 1954), Women's
Kansas City St. Andrew Soc. v Kansas City, 58 F 2d 593 (CA8 1932),
University Heights v Cleveland Jewish Orphans' Home, 20 F 2d 743
(CA6 1927).
25 Village of Belle Terre v Boraas, 416 U. S. 1, is consistent with this
line of state authority Chief Judge Breitel in White Plains v Ferrawli,
supra, at 304-305, 313 N. E. 2d, at 758, cogently characterized the Belle
Terre decision upholding a single-family ordinance as one primarily concerned with the prevention of transiency in a small, quiet suburban
community He wrote:
"The group home [in White Plains] is not, for purposes of a zoning
ordinance, a temporary living arrangement as would be a group of college
students sharing a house and commuting to a nearby school (cf. Village of

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STvSNS, J., concurring m judgment

431 U. S.

There appears to be no precedent for an ordinance which
excludes any of an owner's relatives from the group of persons
who may occupy his residence on a permanent basis. Nor
does there appear to be any justification for such a restriction
on an owner's use of his property 6 The city has failed
totally to explain the need for a rule which would allow a
homeowner to have two grandchildren live with her if they
are brothers, but not if they are cousins. Since this ordinance
has not been shown to have any "substantial relation to the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare" of the city of
East Cleveland, and since it cuts so deeply into a fundamental
right normally associated with the ownership of residential
property-that of an owner to decide who may reside on his or
her property-it must fall under the limited standard of
review of zoning decisions which this Court preserved in
.)
Every year or so, different college students
Belle Terre v Boraas
would come to take the place of those before them. There would be none
of the permanency of community that characterizes a residential neighborhood of private homes."
26Of course, a community has other legitimate concerns m zoning
an area for single-family use including prevention of overcrowding in
residences and prevention of traffic congestion. A community which
attacks these problems by restricting the composition of a household is
using a means not reasonably related to the ends it seeks to achieve. See
2d, at 435-436, 216 N. E. 2d, at 118. To
Des Plaines v Trottner, 34 Ill.
prevent overcrowding, a community can certainly place a limit on the
number of occupants in a household, either in absolute terms or in relation
to the available floor space. Indeed, the city of East Cleveland had on its
books an ordinance requiring a minimum amount of floor space per
occupant in every dwelling. See Nolden v East Cleveland City Comm'n,
12 Ohio Misc. 205, 232 N. E. 2d 421 (Com. P1. Ct., Cuyahoga Cty 1966).
Similarly, traffic congestion can be reduced by prohibiting on-street parking. To attack these problems through use of a restrictive definition of
family is, as one court noted, like "burn[ing] the house to roast the pig."
Larson v. Mayor, 99 N. J. Super. 365, 374, 240 A. 2d 31, 36 (1968). More
narrowly, a limitation on which of the owner's grandchildren may reside
with her obviously has no relevance to these problems.

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

Euclid and Nectow. Under that standard, East Cleveland's
unprecedented ordinance constitutes a taking of property
without due process and without just compensation.
For these reasons, I concur in the Court's judgment.
dissenting.
It is unnecessary for me to reach the difficult constitutional
issue this case presents. Appellant's deliberate refusal to use
a plainly adequate administrative remedy provided by the
city should foreclose her from pressing in this Court any constitutional objections to the city's zoning ordinance. Considerations of federalism and comity, as well as the finite
capacity of federal courts, support this position. In courts, as
in hospitals, two bodies cannot occupy the sane space at the
same time, when any case comes here which could have been
disposed of long ago at the local level, it takes the place
that might well have been given to some other case in which
there was no alternative remedy
MR. CHIEF JusTICE BURGER,

(1)
The single-family zoning ordinances of the city of East
Cleveland define the term "family" to include only the head
of the household and his or her most intimate relatives,
principally the spouse and unmarried and dependent children. Excluded from the definition of "family," and hence
from cohabitation, are various persons related by blood or
adoption to the head of the household. The obvious purpose
of the city is the traditional one of preserving certain areas
as family residential communities.
The city has established a Board of Building Code Appeals
to consider variances from this facially stringent single-family
limit when necessary to alleviate "practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships" and "to secure the general welfare and
" East Cleveland Codified Or[do] substantial justice
dinances ยง 1311.02 -(1965). The Board has power to grant
variances to "[a]ny person adversely affected by a decision of

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

431 U. S.

any City offcial made in the enforcement of any [zoning]
ordinance," so long as appeal is made to the Board within 10
days of notice of the decision appealed from. ยง 1311.03.
After appellant's receipt of the notice of violation, her
lawyers made no effort to apply to the Board for a variance to
exempt her from the restrictions of the ordinance, even though
her situation appears on its face to present precisely the kind
of "practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships" the variance procedure was intended to accommodate. Appellant's
counsel does not claim appellant was unaware of the right to go
to the Board and seek a variance, or that any attempt was
made to secure relief by an application to the Board.' Indeed,
appellant's counsel makes no claim that the failure to seek a
variance was due to anything other than a deliberate decision
to forgo the administrative process in favor of a judicial forum.

(2)
In view of appellant's deliberate bypass of the variance
procedure, the question arises whether she should now be
permitted to complain of the unconstitutionality of the singlefamily ordinance as it applies to her. This Court has not yet
required one in appellant's position to utilize available state
administrative remedies as a prerequisite to obtaining federal
relief, but experience has demonstrated that such a requirement is imperative if the critical overburdening of federal
courts at all levels is to be alleviated. That burden has now
become "a crisis of overload, a crisis so serious that it threatens
the capacity of the federal system to function as it should."
I Counsel for appellant candidly admitted at oral argument that "Mrs.
Moore did not seek a variance m tins case" but argued that her failure
to do so is constitutionally irrelevant. Tr. of Oral Arg. 20. Thus, this was
not an unpublicized administrative remedy of which appellant remained
unaware until after it became unavailable. Such a case would, of course,
present materially different considerations. Cf. Lambert v Califorma,355
U. S.225 (1957).

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

Department of Justice Committee on Revision of the Federal
Judicial System, Report on the Needs of the Federal Courts
The same committee went on to describe the dis1 (1977)
astrous -effects an exploding caseload has had on the admmistration of justice.
mean long delays in obtain"Overloaded courts
ing a final decision and additional expense as court procedures become more complex in the effort to handle the
[T]he quality of justice must
rush of business.
necessarily suffer. Overloaded courts, seeking to deliver
justice on time insofar as they can, necessarily begin to
adjust their processes, sometimes m ways that threaten
the integrity of the law and of the decisional process.
"District courts have delegated more and more of their
Time for oral argument is
tasks to magistrates
[T]he practice of delivering
steadily cut back
written opinions is declining.
CC

Courts are forced to add more clerks, more administrative personnel, to move cases faster and faster.
time for reflection, time for the
They are losing
deliberate maturation of principles." Id., at 3-4.
The devastating impact overcrowded dockets have on the
quality of justice received by all litigants makes it essential
that courts be reserved for the resolution of disputes for
which no other adequate forum is available.
A
The basis of the doctrine of exhaustion of administrative
remedies was simply put in Myers v Bethlehem Shipbuilding
Corp., 303 U S. 41, 50-51 (1938), as
"the long settled rule of judicial administration that
no one is entitled to judicial relief for a supposed or

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

431 U. S.

threatened injury until the prescribed administrative
remedy has been exhausted."
Exhaustion is simply one aspect of allocation of overtaxed
judicial resources. Appellant wishes to use a residential property in a manner at variance with a municipal housing code.
That claim could have been swiftly and inexpensively adjudicated m a municipal administrative tribunal, without engaging cumbersome federal judicial machinery at the highest
level. Of course, had appellant utilized the local administrative remedies and state judicial remedies to no avail, resort
to this Court would have been available.'
The exhaustion principle asks simply that absent compelling circumstances-and none are claimed here-the avenues
of relief nearest and simplest should be pursued first. This
Court should now make unmistakably clear that when state
or local governments provide administrative remedial procedures, no federal forum will be open unless the claimant
can show either that the remedy is inadequate or that resort
to those remedies is futile.
Utilization of available administrative processes is mandated for a complex of reasons. Statutes sometimes provide
administrative procedures as the exclusive remedy Even
apart from a statutory command, it is common sense to permit the simple, speedy, and inexpensive processes of the administrative machinery to sift the facts and compile a complete
record for the benefit of any reviewing courts. Exhaustion
avoids interruption of the administrative process and allows
application of an agency's specialized experience and the broad
discretion granted to local entities, such as zoning boards.
2

Exhaustion does not deny or limit litigants' rights to a federal forum
'because state administrative agency determinations do not create res
judicata or collateral estoppel effects. The exhaustion of state admnmstrative remedies postpones rather than precludes the assertion of federal
jurisdiction." Comment, Exhaustion of State Administrative Remedies in
Section 1983 Cases, 41 U. Chi. L. Rev 537, 551 (1974).

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BUnGER, C. J., dissenting

Indeed, judicial review may be seriously hampered if the
appropriate agency has no chance to apply its experience,
exercise its discretion, or make a factual record reflecting all
aspects of the problem.
Most inportant, if administrative remedies are pursued,
the citizen may win complete relief without needlessly invoking judicial process. This permits the parties to resolve
their disputes by relatively informal means far less costly and
tne consuming than litigation. By requiring exhaustion of
adnnistrative processes the courts are assured of reviewing
only final agency decisions arrived at after considered
judgment. It also permits agencies an opportunity to correct
their own mistakes or give discretionary relief short of judicial review Consistent failure by courts to mandate utilization of administrative remedies-under the growing insistence
of lawyers demanding broad judicial remedies-inevitably
undermines administrative effectiveness and defeats fundamental public policy by encouraging "end runs" around the
administrative process.
It is apparent without discussion that resort to the local appeals board in this case would have furthered these policies,
particularly since the exercise of informed discretion and experience by the proper agency is the essence of any housing
code variance procedure. We ought not to encourage litigants to bypass simple, inexpensive, and expeditious remedies
available at their doorstep in order to invoke expensive judicial machinery on matters capable of being resolved at local
levels.
B
The suggestion is made that exhaustion of administrative
remedies is not required on issues of constitutional law In
one sense this argument is correct, since administrative agencies have no power to decide questions of federal constitutional
law But no one has a right to a federal constitutional ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BURGER, C. i., dissenting

431 U. S.

judication on an issue capable of being resolved on a less
elevated plane. Indeed, few concepts have had more faithful
adherence in this Court than the imperative of avoiding constitutional resolution of issues capable of being disposed of
otherwise. Mr. Justice Brandeis put it well in a related context, arguing for judicial restraint in Ashwander v TVA, 297
U S. 288, 347 (1936) (concurring opinion)
"[This] Court will not pass upon a constitutional question although properly presented by the record, if there
is also present some other ground upon which the case
Thus, if a case can be decided
may be disposed of.
on either of two grounds, one involving a constitutional
question, the other a question of statutory construction
or general law, the Court will decide only the latter."
This Court has frequently remanded cases for exhaustion
"before a challenge can be made m a reviewing court of the
constitutionality of the basic statute, on which the agency
may not pass
" K. Davis, Administrative Law Text
394 (3d ed. 1972) Indeed, exhaustion is often required precisely because there are constitutional issues present in a case,
in order to avoid unnecessary adjudication of these delicate
questions by giving the affected administrative agency an
opportunity to resolve the matter on nonconstitutional
grounds. See Christian v New York Dept. of Labor, 414
U S. 614 (1974), Public Utilities Comm'n of California
v United States, 355 U S. 534, 539-540 (1958), Allen v
Grand Central Aircraft Co., 347 U S. 535, 553 (1954), Aircraft & Diesel Equipment Corp. v Hirsch, 331 U S. 752, 766767 (1947), Natural Gas Co. v Slattery, 302 U S.300, 309311 (1937), Fuchs, Prerequisites to Judicial Review of
Administrative Agency Action, 51 Ind. L. J 817, 883 (1976)
Of course, if administrative authority fails to afford
relief, further exhaustion is pointless and judicial relief may
be available. See Weinberger v Salfi, 422 U S.749 (1975)

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

But so long as favorable admistrative action is still possible,
the policies favoring exhaustion are not mitigated m the
slightest by the presence of a constitutional issue. See Christhan, supra. To the extent that a nonconstitutional decision is
possible only at the administrative level, those policies are
reinforced. Plainly we have here precisely such a case, Appearance before the local city Board would have provided an
opportunity for complete relief without forcing a constitutional ruling. The posture of the constitutional issues in this
case thus provides an additional reason supporting the exhaustion requirement.
C
It is also said that exhaustion is not required when to do
so would inflict irreparable injury on the litigant. In the
present case, as in others in which a constitutional claim is
asserted, injury is likely to include the "loss or destruction of
substantive rights." In such a case, "the presence of constitutional questions, coupled with a sufficient showing of madequacy of prescribed administrative relief and of threatened
, has
or impending irreparable injury flowing from delay
been held sufficient to dispense with exhausting the administrative process before instituting judicial intervention." Aircraft & Diesel Equipment Corp., supra, at 773.
But there is every reason to require resort to administrative
remedies "where the individual charged is to be deprived of
nothing until the completion of [the administrative] proceeding." Gibson v Berryhill, 411 U S. 564, 574-575
(1973), see Natural Gas Co., supra, at 309-311, Schlesinger
v Councilman, 420 U S. 738 (1975), Aircraft & Diesel
Equipment Corp., supra, at 773-774. The focus must be
on the adequacy of the administrative remedy If the desired relief may be obtained without undue burdens, and if
substantial rights are protected as the process moves forward,
no harm is done by requiring the litigant to pursue and exhaust those remedies before calling on the Constitution of

OCTOBER TERM-I, 1976
BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

431 U. S.

the United States. To do otherwise trivializes constitutional
adjudication. 3
In this case appellant need have surrendered no asserted
constitutional rights in order to pursue the local administrative remedy No reason appears why appellant could not
have sought a variance as soon as notice of a claimed violation was received, without altering the living arrangements
in question. The notice of violation gave appellant 10 days
within which to seek a variance, no criminal or civil sanctions
could possibly have attached pending the outcome of that
proceeding.
Though timely invocation of the administrative remedy
would have had no effect on appellant's asserted rights, and
would have inflicted no irreparable injury, the present availability of such relief under the city ordinance is less clear.
But it is unrealistic to expect a municipality to hold open its
administrative process for years after legal enforcement action has begun. Appellant cannot rely on the current absence
3This analysis explains those cases m which this Court has allowed
persons subject to claimed unconstitutional restrictions on their freedom
of expression to challenge that restriction without first applying for a
permit which, if granted, would moot their claim. E. g., Hynes v Mayor
of Oradell, 425 U. S. 610 (1976), Shuttlesworth v Birmingham, 394 U. S.
147 (1969), Staub v. City of Baxley, 355 U. S. 313 (1958). In each
instance the permit procedure was itself an unconstitutional infringement
on First Amendment rights. Thus, in those cases irreparable injury--the
loss or postponement of precious First Amendment nghts--was a concomitant of the available administrative procedure.
Similarly explicable are those cases in which challenge is made to the
constitutionality of the administrative proceedings themselves. See Freedman v Maryland, 380 T. S. 51 (1965), Public Utilities Comm'n of Californza v United States, 355 U. S: 534, 540 (1958). But see Chrstian v
New York Dept. of Labor, 414 U. S. 614, 622 (1974), where appellants'
constitutional due process challenge to adnmimstrative procedures was
deferred pending agency action. Exhaustion in those situations would
similarly risk infringement of a constitutional right by the administrative
process itself.

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

of administrative relief either as justification for the original
failure to seek it, or as a reason why accountability for that
failure is unreasonable. See Huffman v Pursue, Ltd., 420
U S. 592, 611 n. 22 (1975) Any other rule would make
a mockery of the exhaustion doctrine by placing no penalty
on its violation.
D
This is not a case where inadequate or unclear or costly
remedies make exhaustion inappropriate, or where the Board's
position relating to appellant's clans is so fixed that further
administrative review would be fruitless. There is not the
slightest indication of any fixed Board policy against variances, or that a prompt application for a variance would not
have been granted.4 Nor is it dispositive that the case involves criminal rather than civil penalties. The applicability
of the exhaustion principle to bar challenges to the legality
of prosecutions is established, even where, unlike the present
case, substantial felony penalties are at stake. McGee v
United States, 402 U S. 479 (1971), Yakus v United States,
321 U S. 414 (1944), Falbo v. United States, 320 U S. 549
(1944), see McKart v United States, 395 U S. 185 (1969)
There is far less reason to take into account the criminal
nature of the proceedings when only misdemeanor penalties
are involved.
(3)
Thus, the traditional justifications offered in support of the
exhaustion principle point toward application of the doctrine.
But there is a powerful additional reason why exhaustion
should be enforced in this case. We deal here with federal
4 To be adequate for exhaustion purposes, an administrative remedy
need not guarantee the litigant success on the merits in advance. What
is required is a forum with the power to grant relief, capable of hearing the
case with objectivity and dispatch. There is no reason to doubt that appellant would have received a fair hearing before the Board.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

431 U.S.

judicial review of an administrative determination by a subdivision of the State of Ohio. When the question before a
federal court is whether to enforce exhaustion of state admnistrative remedies, interests of federalism and comity make
the analysis strikingly similar to that appropriate when the
question is whether federal courts should abstain from interference with ongoing state judicial proceedings., In both
situations federal courts are being requested to act in ways
lacking deference to, and perhaps harmful to, important state
interests in order to vindicate rights which can be protected
in the state system as well as in the federal. Cf. Wisconsin v
Constantsneau, 400 U S. 433, 439 (1971) (BURGER, C. J.,
dissenting) The policies underlying this Court's refusals to
jeopardize important state objectives needlessly in Huffman v
Pursue, Ltd., supra, Jutdice v Vail, 430 U S. 327 (1977),
and Tramor v Hernandez, ante, p. 434, argue strongly
against action which encourages evasion and undermining of
other important state interests embodied in regulatory
procedures.
When the State asserts its sovereignty through the administrative process, no less than when it proceeds judicially,
"federal courts
should abide by standards of restraint that
go well beyond those of private equity jurisprudence." Huffman, supra, at 603, cf. Younger v Harris,401 U S. 37, 41
(1971)
A proper respect for state integrity is manifested by
and, in part, dependent on, our reluctance to disrupt state
5 See Parisi v Davidson, 405 U. S. 34, 37, 40 n. 6 (1972), Public Utilities Comm'n v. United Fuel Co., 317 U. S. 456 (1943), Natural Gas Co.
v Slattery, 302 U. S. 300, 311 (1937), Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211
U. S. 210, 229 (1908), First Nat. Bank v Board of County Comm'rs, 264
U. S. 450 (1924), cf. Schlesinger v Councilman, 420 U. S. 738, 756-757
(1975). See generally L. Jaffe, Judicial Control of Administrative Action
437-438 (1965), Fuchs, Prerequisites to Judicial Review of Administrative Agency Action, 51 Ind. L. J. 817, 861-862 (1976), Comment, Exhaustion of State Administrative Remedies Under the Civil Rights Act, 8 Ind.
L. Rev 565 (1975)

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

STEWART, J., dissenting

proceedings even when important federal rights are asserted
as a reason for doing so. Where, as here, state law affords
an appropriate "doorstep" vehicle for vindication of the
claims underlying those rights, federal courts should not be
called upon unless those remedies have been utilized. No
litigant has a right to force a constitutional adjudication by
eschewing the only forum in which adequate nonconstitutional
relief is possible. Appellant seeks to invoke federal judicial
relief. We should now make clear that the finite resources
of this Court are not available unless the litigant has first
pursued all adequate and available adminstrative remedies.
The doctrine of exhaustion of administrative remedies has a
long history Though its salutary effects are undisputed, they
have often been casually neglected, due to the judicial penchant of honoring the doctrine more in the breach than in the observance. For my part, the time has come to insist on enforcement of the doctrine whenever the local or state remedy is
adequate and where asserted rights can be protected and irreparable injury avoided within the administrative process.
Only by so doing will this Court and other federal courts be
available to deal with the myriad new problems clamoring
for resolution.
MR. JusT cE STEwART, with whom MR. JusTiCE RErNQUiST
joins, dissenting.
In Village of Belle Terre v Boraas, 416 U S. 1, the Court
considered a New York village ordinance that restricted land
use within the village to single-family dwellings. That ordinance defined "family" to include all persons related by
blood, adoption, or marriage who lived and cooked together
as a single-housekeeping unit, it forbade occupancy by any
group of three or more persons who were not so related. We
held that the ordinance was a valid effort by the village government to promote the general community welfare, and
that it did not violate the Fourteenth Amendment or in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEWART,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

fringe any other rights or freedoms protected by the
Constitution.
The present case brings before us a similar ordinance of
East Cleveland, Ohio, one that also limits the occupancy of
any dwelling unit to a single family, but that defines "family"
to include only certain combinations of blood relatives. The
question presented, as I view it, is whether the decision in
Belle Terre is controlling, or whether the Constitution compels
a different result because East Cleveland's definition of
"family" is more restrictive than that before us in the BellTerre case.
The city of East Cleveland is a residential suburb of Cleveland, Ohio. It has enacted a comprehensive Housing Code,
one section of which prescribes that "[t]he occupancy of any
dwelling unit shall be limited to one, and only one, famThe Code defines the term "family" as follows:
ily
,,"
"'Family' means a number of individuals related to the
nominal head of the household or to the spouse of the
nominal head of the household living as a single housekeeping unit m a single dwelling unit, but liited to the
following:
"(a) Husband or wife of the nominal head of the
household.
"(b) Unmarried children of the nominal head of the
household or of the spouse of the nominal head of the
household, provided, however, that such unmarried children have no children residing with them.
"(c) Father or mother of the nominal head of the
household or of the spouse of the nominal head of the
household.
"(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b)
hereof, a family may include not more than one dependent married or unmarried child of the nominal head of
the household or of the spouse of the nominal head of
'East Cleveland Housmg Code ยง 1351.02 (1964)

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

STEWART,

J., dissenting

the household and the spouse and dependent children of
such dependent child. For the purpose of this subsection, a dependent person is one who has more than fifty
percent of his total support furnished for him by the
nominal head of the household and the spouse of the
nominal head of the household.
"(e) A family may consist of one individual." 2
The appellant, Inez Moore, owns a 2 2-story frame house
in East Cleveland. The building contains two "dwelling
units." 3 At the tne this litigation began Mrs. Moore occupied one of these dwelling units with her two sons, John
Moore, Sr., and Dale Moore, Sr., and their two sons, John, Jr.,
and Dale, Jr.4 These five persons constituted more than one
family under the ordinance.
In January 1973, a city housing inspector cited Mrs.
Moore for occupation of the premses by more than one
family I She received a notice of violation directing her to
2 East Cleveland Housing Code ยง 1341.08 (1966).
3 The Housing Code defines a "dwelling unit" as "a group of rooms
arranged, maintained or designed to be occupied by a single family and,
consisting of a complete bathroom with toilet, lavatory and tub or shower
facilities; one, and one only, complete kitchen or kitchenette with approved cooking, refrigeration and sink facilities; approved living and
sleeping facilities. All of such facilities shall be m contiguous rooms and
used exclusively by such family and by any authorized persons occupying
such dwelling unit with the family" ยง 1341.07
4 There is some suggestion m the record that the other dwelling unit in
the appellants house was also occupied by relatives of Mrs. Moore. A
notice of violation dated January 16, 1973, refers to "Ms. Carol Moore
and her son, Derik," as illegal occupants m the other unit, and at some
point the illegal occupancy in one of the units allegedly was corrected by
transferring one occupant over to the other unit.
s Mrs. Moore, as the owner of the house, was responsible for compliance
with the Housing Code. East Cleveland Housing Code ยง 1343.04 (1966).
The illegal occupant, however, was identified by the city as John Moore, Jr.,
Mrs. Moore's grandson. The record suggests no reason why he was
named, rather than Dale Moore, Jr. The occupancy might have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEwART, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

correct the situation, which she did not do. Sixteen months
passed, during which the city repeatedly complained about
the violation. Mrs. Moore did not request relief from the
Board of Building Code Appeals, although the Code gives
the Board the explicit power to grant a variance "where
practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships shall result
from the strict compliance with or the enforcement of the
provisions of any ordinance
)) 6
Finally, in May 1974, a
municipal court found Mrs. Moore guilty of violating the
single-family occupancy ordinance. The court overruled her
motion to dismiss the charge, rejecting her clan that the ordinance's definition of "family" is invalid on its face under
the United States Constitution. The Ohio Court of Appeals
affirmed on the authority of Village of Belle Terre v Boraas,
and the Ohio Supreme Court dismissed Mrs. Moore's appeal.
In my view, the appellant's claim that the ordinance in question invades constitutionally protected rights of association and
privacy is in large part answered by the Belle Terre decision.
The argument was made there that a municipality could not
zone its land exclusively for single-family occupancy because to do so would interfere with protected rights of privacy
or association. We re3ected this contention, and held that
the ordinance at issue "involve[d] no 'fundamental' right
guaranteed by the Constitution, such as
the right of association, NAACP v Alabama, 357 U S. 449,
or any rights
of privacy, cf. Griswold v Connecticut, 381 U S. 479, Eisenstadt v Baird, 405 U S. 438, 453-454." 416 U S., at 7-8.
The Belle Terre decision thus disposes of the appellant's
contentions to the extent they focus not on her blood relationships with her sons and grandsons but on more general
legal but for one of the two grandsons. One of Mrs. Moore's sons, together with his son, could have lived with Mrs. Moore under ยง 1341.08 (d)
of the Code if they were dependent on her. The other son, provided he
was "unmnarried," could have been included under ยง 1341.08 (b)
6
East Cleveland Building Code ยง 1311.02 (1965)

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

STEWART,

535

J., dissenting

notions about the "privacy of the home." Her suggestion that every person has a constitutional right permanently
to share his residence with whomever he pleases, and that
such choices are "beyond the province of legitimate governmental intrusion," amounts to the same argument that was
made and found unpersuasive in Belle Terre.
To be sure, the ordinance involved in Belle Terre did not
prevent blood relatives from occupying the same dwelling, and
the Court's decision in that case does not, therefore, foreclose
the appellant's arguments based specifically on the ties of
kinship present in this case. Nonetheless, I would hold, for
the reasons that follow, that the existence of those ties does
not elevate either the appellant's claim of associational freedom or her claim of privacy to a level invoking constitutional
protection.
To suggest that the biological fact of common ancestry
necessarily gives related persons constitutional rights of association superior to those of unrelated persons is to misunderstand
the nature of the associational freedoms that the Constitution
has been understood to protect. Freedom of association has
been constitutionally recognized because it is often indispensable to effectuation of explicit First Amendment guarantees.
See NAACP v Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U S. 449,
460-461, Bates v Little Rock, 361 U S. 516, 523, Shelton v
Tucker, 364 U S. 479, NAACP v Button, 371 U S. 415,430431, Railroad Trainmen v Virginia Bar, 377 U S. 1, Kusper
v Pontikes, 414 U S. 51, 56-61, cf. Edwards v South Carolina, 372 U S. 229. But the scope of the associational right,
until now, at least, has been limited to the constitutional need
that created it, obviously not every "association" is for First
Amendment purposes or serves to promote the ideological
freedom that the First Amendment was designed to protect.
The "association" in this case is not for any purpose relating
to the promotion of speech, assembly, the press, or religion.
And wherever the outer boundaries of constitutional protec-

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEWART,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

tion of freedom of association may eventually turn out to
be, they surely do not extend to those who assert no interest
other than the gratification, convenience, and economy of
sharing the same residence.
The appellant is considerably closer to the constitutional
mark in asserting that the East Cleveland ordinance intrudes
upon "the private realm of family life which the state cannot
enter." Prnce v Massachusetts,321 U S. 158, 166. Several
decisions of the Court have identified specific aspects of what
might broadly be termed "private family life" that are constitutionally protected against state interference. See, e. g.,
Roe v Wade, 410 U S. 113, 152-154 (woman's right to decide
whether to terminate pregnancy), Loving v Virginia, 388
U S. 1, 12 (freedom to marry person of another race), Grswold v Connecticut, 381 U. S. 479; Eisenstadt v Bazrd, 405
U S. 438 (right to use contraceptives), Perce v Society of
Sisters, 268 U S. 510, 534-535 (parents' right to send children
to private schools), Meyer v Nebraska, 262 U S. 390
(parents' right to have children instructed in foreign
language)
Although the appellant's desire to share a single-dwelling
unit also involves "private family life" in a sense, that desire
can hardly be equated with any of the interests protected in
the cases just cited. The ordinance about which the appellant
complains did not impede her choice to have or not to have
children, and it did not dictate to her how her own children
were to be nurtured and reared. The ordinance clearly does
not prevent parents from living together or living with their
unemancipated offspring.
But even though the Court's previous cases are not directly
in point, the appellant contends that the importance of the
"extended family" in American society requires us to hold
that her decision to share her residence with her grandsons
may not be interfered with by the State. This decision, like
the decisions involved in bearing and raising children, is said

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

STEWART,

J., dissenting

to be an aspect of "family life" also entitled to substantive
protection under the Constitution. Without pausing to
inquire how far under this argument an "extended family"
might extend, I cannot agree.' When the Court has found
that the Fourteenth Amendment placed a substantive limitation on a State's power to regulate, it has been in those rare
cases in which the personal interests at issue have been
deemed "'implicit in the concept of ordered liberty'" See
Roe v Wade, supra, at 152, quoting Palko v Connectwut, 302
U S.319, 325. The interest that the appellant may have in
permanently sharing a single kitchen and a suite of contiguous
rooms with some of her relatives simply does not rise to that
level. To equate this interest with the fundamental decisions
to marry and to bear and raise children is to extend
the limited substantive contours of the Due Process Clause
beyond recognition.
The appellant also challenges the single-family occupancy
ordinance on equal protection grounds, Her clam is that the
city has drawn an arbitrary and irrational distinction between
groups of people who may live together as a "family" and
those who may not. While acknowledging the city's right to
preclude more than one family from occupying a single-dwelling unit, the appellant argues that the. purposes of the singlefamily occupancy law would be equally served by an ordinance
that did not prevent her from sharing her residence with her
two sons and their sons.
This argument misconceives the nature of the constitutional
inquiry In a case such as this one, where the challenged
7
The opinion of MR.JUSTiCE POWELL and MR.JusTICE BRENNAN'S concurring opinion both emphasize the traditional importance of the extended
family in American life. But I fail to understand why it follows that the
residents of East Cleveland are constitutionally prevented from following

what MR. JusTIcE BRENNAN calls the "pattern" of "white suburbia," even
though that choice may reflect "cultural myopia." In point of fact, East
Cleveland is a predominantly Negro community, with a Negro City Manager and City Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEWART, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

ordinance intrudes upon no substantively protected constitutional right, it is not the Court's business to decide whether
its application in a particular case seems inequitable, or even
absurd. The question is not whether some other ordinance,
drafted more broadly, might have served the city's ends as
well or almost as well. The task, rather, is to determine if
East Cleveland's ordinance violates the Equal Protection
Clause of the United States Constitution. And in performing that task, it must be borne in mind that "[w] e deal with
economic and social legislation where legislatures have historically drawn lines which we respect against the charge of
violation of the Equal Protection Clause if the law be '"reasonable, not arbitrary"' (quoting Royster Guano Co. v
Virginia, 253 U S. 412, 415) and bears 'a rational relationship
to a [permissible] state objective.' Reed v Reed, 404 U S.
71, 76." Village of Belle Terre v Boraas, 416 U S., at 8.
"[E]very line drawn by a legislature leaves some out that
might well have been included. That exercise of discretion,
however, is a legislative, not a judicial, function." Ibzd.
(footnote omitted) 8
Viewed in the light of these principles, I do not think East
Cleveland's definition of "family" offends the Constitution.
The city has undisputed power to ordain single-family residen8

The observation of Mr. Justice Holmes quoted m the Belle Terre opinion, 416 U. S., at 8 n. 5, bears repeating here.
"When a legal distinction is determined, as no one doubts that it may
be, between night and day, childhood and maturity, or any other extremes, a point has to be fixed or a line has to be drawn, or gradually
picked out by successive decisions, to mark where the change takes place.
Looked at by itself without regard to the necessity behind it the line or
point seems arbitrary It might as well or nearly as well be a little more
to one side or the other. But when it is seen that a line or point there
must be, and that there is no mathematical or logical way of fixing it
precisely, the decision of the legislature must be accepted unless we can
say that it is very wide of any reasonable mark." Louisville Gas Co. v
Coleman, 277 U. S.32, 41 (dissenting opinion).

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

STEwART,

J., dissenting

tial occupancy Village of Belle Terre v Boraas,supra, Euclid
v Ambler Realty Co., 272 U S. 365. And that power plainly
carries with it the power to say what a "family" is. Here the
city has defined "family" to include not only father, mother,
and dependent children, but several other close relatives as
well. The definition is rationally designed to carry out the
legitimate governmental purposes identified in the Belle Terre
opinion. "The police power is not confined to elimination of
filth, stench, and unhealthy places. It is ample to lay out
zones where family values, youth values, and the blessings of
quiet seclusion and clean air make the area a sanctuary for
people." 416 U S., at 9.9
Obviously, East Cleveland might have as easily and perhaps as effectively hit upon a different definition of "family"
But a line could hardly be drawn that would not sooner or
later become the target of a challenge like the appellant's. If
"family" included all of the householder's grandchildren there
would doubtless be the hard case of an orphaned niece or
nephew
If, as the appellant suggests, a "family" must
include all blood relatives, what of longtime friends? The
point is that any definition would produce hardships in some
cases without materially advancing the legislative purpose.
That this ordinance also does so is no reason to hold it unconstitutional, unless we are to use our power to interpret the
United States Constitution as a sort of generalized authority
to correct seeming inequity wherever it surfaces. It is not for
us to rewrite the ordinance, or substitute our judgment for
9The appellant makes much of East Cleveland Housing Code ยง 1351.03
(1966), which prescribes a minimum habitable floor area per person; she

argues that because the municipality has chosen to establish a specific
density control the single-family ordinance can have no role to play It is
obvious, however, that ยง 1351.03 is directed not at preserving the character
of a residential area but at establishing minimum health and safety
standards.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEWART, J.,

dissenting

431 U.S.

the discretion of the prosecutor who elected to initiate this
litigation."0
In this connection the variance provisions of East Cleveland's Building Code assume special significance, for they
show that the city recognized the difficult problems its ordinances were bound to create in particular cases, and provided
a means to solve at least some of them. Section 1311.01 of
the Code establishes a Board of Building Code Appeals.
Section 1311.02 then provides, in pertinent part:
"The Board of Building Code Appeals shall determine
all matters properly presented to it and where practical
difficulties and unnecessary hardships shall result from
the strict compliance with or the enforcement of the
provisions of any ordinance for which it is designated as
10 MR. JUSTICE STEVENs, in his opinion concurring in the judgment,
frames the issue in terms of the "appellant's right to use her own property
as she sees fit." Ante, at 513. Focusing on the householder's property
rights does not substantially change the constitutional analysis. If the
ordinance is invalid under the Equal Protection Clause as to those classes
of people whose occupancy it forbids, I should suppose it is also invalid
as an arbitrary intrusion upon the property owner's rights to have them
live with her. On the other hand, if the ordinance is a rational attempt
to promote "the city's interest m preserving the character of its neighborhoods," Young v American Mirn Theatres, 427 U. S. 50, 71 (opinion of
STEvNs, J.), it is consistent with the Equal Protection Clause and a pernssible restriction on the use of private property under Euclid v Ambler
Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365, and Nectow v Cambridge, 277 U S. 183.
The state cases that MR. JUSTICE STEVENS discusses do not answer this
federal constitutional issue. For the most part, they deal with state-law
issues concerning the proper statutory construction of the term "family,"
and they indicate only that state courts have been reluctant to extend
ambiguous single-family zoning ordinances to nontransient, single-housekeeping units. By no means do they establish that narrow definitions of
the term "family" are unconstitutional.
Finally, MR.JUSTICE STEVENS calls the city to task for failing "to explain the need" for enacting this particular ordinance. Ante, at 520.
This places the burden on the wrong party

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

WHITE, J., dissenting

the Board of Appeals, such Board shall have the power
to grant variances in harmony with the general intent
of such ordinance and to secure the general welfare and
substantial justice in the promotion of the public health,
comfort, convenience, morals, safety and general welfare
of the City"
The appellant did not request a variance under this section,
although she could have done so. While it is impossible to
know whether such a request would have been granted, her
situation appears to present precisely the kind of "practical
difficulties" and "unnecessary hardships" that the variance
provisions were designed to accommodate.
This is not to say that the appellant was obligated to
exhaust her administrative remedy before defending this prosecution on the ground that the single-family occupancy
ordinance violates the Equal Protection Clause. In assessing
her claim that the ordinance is "arbitrary" and "irrational,"
however, I think the existence of the variance provisions
The
is particularly persuasive evidence to the contrary
variance procedure, a traditional part of American land-use
law, bends the straight lines of East Cleveland's ordinances,
shaping their contours to respond more flexibly to the hard
cases that are the inevitable byproduct of legislative
linedrawing.
For these reasons, I think the Ohio courts did not err in rejecting the appellant's constitutional claims. Accordingly,
I respectfully dissent.
MR. JusTicE WHiTE,

dissenting.

The Fourteenth Amendment forbids any State to "deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law," or to "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws." Both provisions are invoked
in this case in an attempt to invalidate a city zoning ordinance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
WHITE, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

I
The emphasis of the Due Process Clause is on "process."
As Mr. Justice Harlan once observed, it has been "ably and
insistently argued in response to what were felt to be abuses
by this Court of its reviewing power," that the Due Process
Clause should be limited "to a guarantee of procedural
fairness." Poe v Ullman, 367 U S. 497, 540 (1961)
(dissenting opinion)
These arguments had seemed "persuasive" to Justices Brandeis and Holmes, Whitney v Californza, 274 U S. 357, 373 (1927), but they recognized that
the Due Process Clause, by virtue of case-to-case "judicial
inclusion and exclusion," Davdson v New Orleans, 96 U S.
97, 104 (1878), had been construed to proscribe matters of
substance, as well as inadequate procedures, and to protect
from invasion by the States "all fundamental rights comprised within the term liberty" Whitney v California,supra,
at 373.
Mr. Justice Black also recognized that the Fourteenth
Amendment had substantive as well as procedural content.
But believing that its reach should not extend beyond the
specific provisions of the Bill of Rights, see Adamson v Californa, 332 U S.46, 68 (1947) (dissenting opinion), he never
embraced the idea that the Due Process Clause empowered the
courts to strike down merely unreasonable or arbitrary legislation, nor did he accept Mr. Justice Harlan's consistent view
See Griswold v Connecticut,381 U S.479, 507 (1965) (Black,
J., dissenting), and id., at 499 (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment) Writing at length in dissent in Poe v Ullman, supra,
at 543, Mr. Justice Harlan stated the essence of his position
as follows:
"This 'liberty' is not a series of isolated points pricked
out in terms of the taking of property; the freedom of
speech, press, and religion, the right to keep and bear
arms, the freedom from unreasonable searches and sei-

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
WHrIE, J., dissenting

494

zures; and so on. It is a rational continuum which,
broadly speaking, includes a freedom from all substantial arbitrary impositions and purposeless restraints, see
Allgeyer v Louisiana, 165 U S. 578, Holden v Hardy,
169 U S. 366, Booth v Illinois, 184 U S. 425, Nebbwa v
New York, 291 U S. 502, Skinner v Oklahoma, 316 U S.
535, 544 (concurring opinion), Schware v Board of Bar
Examiners, 353 U S. 232, and which also recognizes,
what a reasonable and sensitive judgment must, that
certain interests require particularly careful scrutiny of
the state needs asserted to justify their abridgment. Cf.
Skinner v Oklahoma, supra, Bolling v Sharpe, [347 U S.

497 (1954)]."
This construction was far too open ended for Mr. Justice
Black. For him, Meyer v Nebraska, 262 U S. 390 (1923),
and Pierce v Society of Sisters, 268 U S. 510 (1925), as substantive due process cases, were as suspect as Lochner v New
York, 198 U S. 45 (1905), Coppage v Kansas, 236 U S. 1
(1915), and Adkins v Children's Hospital, 261 U S. 525
In his view, Ferguson v Skrupa, 372 U S. 726
(1923)
(1963), should have finally disposed of them all. But neither
Meyer nor Pierce has been overruled, and recently there have
been decisions of the same genre-Roe v Wade, 410 U S. 113
(1973), Lovng v Virginia, 388 U S. 1 (1967), Griswold v
Connecticut, supra, and Eisenstadt v Baird, 405 U S. 438
(1972) Not all of these decisions purport to rest on substantive due process grounds, compare Roe v Wade, supra, at
152-153, with Eisenstadt v Baird, supra, at 453-454, but all
represented substantial reinterpretations of the Constitution.
Although the Court regularly proceeds on the assumption
that the Due Process Clause has more than a procedural
dimension, we must always bear in mind that the substantive
content of the Clause is suggested neither by its language
nor by preconstitutional history; that c6ntent is nothing more
than the accumulated product of judicial interpretation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
WHiTE,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. This is not to suggest, at this point, that any of these cases should be overruled,
or that the process by which they were decided was illegitimate
or even unacceptable, but only to underline Mr. Justice Black's
constant reminder to his colleagues that the Court has no
license to invalidate legislation which it thinks merely arbitrary or unreasonable. And no one was more sensitive than
Mr. Justice Harlan to any suggestion that his approach to the
Due Process Clause would lead to judges "roaimng at large
in the constitutional field." Grzswold v Connecticut, supra,
at 502. No one proceeded with more caution than he did
when the validity of state or federal legislation was challenged
in the name of the Due Process Clause.
This is surely the preferred approach. That the Court has
ample precedent for the creation of new constitutional rights
should not lead it to repeat the process at will. The Judiciary, including this Court, is the most vulnerable and comes
nearest to illegitimacy when it deals with judge-made constitutional law having little or no cognizable roots in the
language or even the design of the Constitution. Realizing
that the present construction of the Due Process Clause represents a major judicial gloss on its terms, as well as on the
anticipation of the Framers, and that much of the underpinning for the broad, substantive application of the Clause disappeared in the conflict between the Executive and the
Judiciary in the 1930's and 1940's, the Court should be extremely reluctant to breathe still further substantive content
into the Due Process Clause so as to strike down legislation
adopted by a State or city to promote its welfare. Whenever
the Judiciary does so, it unavoidably pre-empts for itself
another part of the governance of the country without express
constitutional authority
IT
Accepting the cases as they are and the Due Process Clause
as construed by them, however, I think it evident that the

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

WHITE, J., dissenting

threshold question in any due process attack on legislation,
whether the challenge is procedural or substantive, is whether
there is a deprivation of life, liberty, or property With respect to "liberty," the statement of Mr. Justice Harlan in
Poe v Ullman, quoted supra, at 504, most accurately reflects
the thrust of prior decisions-that the Due Process Clause is
triggered by a variety of interests, some much more important
than others. These interests have included a wide range of
freedoms in the purely commercial area such as the freedom
to contract and the right to set one's own prices and wages.
Meyer v Nebraska, supra, at 399, took a characteristically
broad view of "liberty"
"While this Court has not attempted to define with
exactness the liberty thus guaranteed, the term has
received much consideration and some of the included
things have been definitely stated. Without doubt, it
denotes not merely freedom from bodily restraint but also
the right of the individual to contract, to engage in any of
the common occupations of life, to acquire useful knowleldge, to marry, establish a home and bring up children,
to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience, and generally to enjoy those privileges long
recognized at common law as essential to the orderly
pursuit of happiness by free men."
As I have said, Meyer has not been overruled nor its definition of liberty rejected. The results reached in some of the
cases cited by Meyer have been discarded or undermined by
later cases, but those cases did not cut back the definition of
liberty espoused by earlier decisions. They disagreed only,
but sharply, as to the protection that was "due" the particular liberty interests involved. See, for example, West Coast
Hotel Co. v Parrsh,300 U S. 379 (1937), overruling Adkrns
v Children'sHospital,261 U S. 525 (1923)
Just a few years ago, we recognized that while "the range
of interests protected by procedural due process is not in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
WHITE, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

finite," and while we must look to the nature of the interest
rather than its weight in determining whether a protected
interest is at issue, the term "liberty" has been given broad
meaning in our cases. Board of Regents v Roth, 408 U S.
564, 570-571 (1972)
"In a Constitution for a free people,
there can be no doubt that the meaning of 'liberty' must be
broad indeed. See, e. g., Boiling v Sharpe, 347 U S. 497,
499-500, Stanley v Illinots, 405 U S.645." Id., at 572.
It would not be consistent with prior cases to restrict the
liberties protected by the Due Process Clause to those fundamental interests "implicit in the concept of ordered liberty"
Ante, at 537 Palko v Connectcut, 302 U S. 319 (1937),
from which this much-quoted phrase is taken, %d., at 325, is
not to the contrary Palko was a criminal case, and the issue
was thus not whether a protected liberty interest was at stake
but what protective process was "due" that interest. The
Court used the quoted standard to determine which of the
protections of the Bill of Rights was due a crminnal defendant
in a state court within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Nor do I think the broader view of "liberty" is inconsistent with or foreclosed by the dicta in Roe v Wade,
410 U S., at 152, and Paulv Davs, 424 U S.693, 713 (1976)
These cases at most assert that only fundamental liberties
will be given substantie protection, and they may be understood as merely identifying certain fundamental interests that
the Court has deemed deserving of a heightened degree of
protection under the Due Process Clause.
It seems to me that Mr. Justice Douglas was closest to the
mark in Poe v Ullman, 367 U S., at 517, when he saad that the
trouble with the holdings of the "old Court" was not in its
definition of liberty but in its definition of the protections
guaranteed to that hberty-"not in entertaining inquiries concerning the constitutionality of social legislation but in applying the standards that it did."

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

WHITE, J., dissenting

The term "liberty" is not, therefore, to be given a crabbed
construction. I have no more difficulty than MR. JusTIcE
POWELL apparently does in concluding that appellant in this
case properly asserts a liberty interest within the meaning of
the Due Process Clause. The question is not one of
liberty vel non. Rather, there being no procedural issue
at stake, the issue is whether the precise interest involvedthe interest in having more than one set of grandchildren
live in her home-is entitled to such substantive protection
under the Due Process Clause that this ordinance must be held
invalid.
III
Looking at the doctrine of "substantive" due process as
having to do with the possible mvalidity of an official rule of
conduct rather than of the procedures for enforcing that rule,
I see the doctrine as taking several forms under the cases,
each differing in the severity of review and the degree of
protection offered to the individual. First, a court may
merely assure itself that there is in fact a duly enacted law
which proscribes the conduct sought to be prevented or sanctioned. In criminal cases, this approach is exemplified by
the refusal of courts to enforce vague statutes that no reasonable person could understand as forbidding the challenged
conduct. There is no such problem here.
Second is the general principle that "liberty may not be
interfered with, under the guise of protecting the public
interest, by legislative action which is arbitrary or without
reasonable relation to some purpose within the competency
of the State to effect." Meyer v Nebraska, 262 U S., at 399400. This means-end test appears to require that any
statute restrictive of liberty have an ascertaanable purpose
and represent a rational means to achieve that purpose,
whatever the nature of the liberty interest involved. This
approach was part of the substantive due process doctrine

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
WHITE, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

prevalent earlier in the century, and it made serious inroads on
the presumption of constitutionality supposedly accorded to
state and federal legislation. But with Nebbza v New York,
291 U S. 502 (1934), and other cases of the 1930's and
1940's such as West Coast Hotel Co. v Parrsh, supra, the
courts came to demand far less from and to accord far more
deference to legislative judgments. This was particularly
true with respect to legislation seeking to control or regulate
the economic life of the State or Nation. Even so, "while the
legislative judgment on economic and business matters is
'well-nigh conclusive'
, it is not beyond judicial inquiry" Poe v Ullman, supra, at 518 (Douglas, J., dissenting) No case that I know of, including Ferguson v Skrupa,
372 U S. 726 (1963), has announced that there is some legislation with respect to which there no longer exists a meansends test as a matter of substantive due process law This is
not surprising, for otherwise a protected liberty could be
infringed by a law having no purpose or utility whatsoever.
Of course, the current approach is to deal more gingerly with a
state statute and to insist that the challenger bear the burden of demonstrating its unconstitutionality; and there is a
broad category of cases in which substantive review is indeed
mild and very similar to the original thought of Munn v
Illinoss, 94 U S. 113, 132 (1877), that "if a state of facts
could exist that would justify such legislation," it passes its
initial test.

There are various "liberties," however, which require that
mfrngig legislation be given closer judicial scrutiny, not
only with respect to existence of a purpose and the means
employed, but also with respect to the importance of the
purpose itself relative to the invaded interest. Some interests would appear almost inpregnable to invasion, such as the
freedoms of speech, press, and religion, and the freedom from
cruel and unusual punishments. Other interests, for example, the right of association, the right to vote, and various

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
WHITE, J., dissenting

494

claims sometimes referred to under the general rubric of the
right to privacy, also weigh very heavily against state claims
of authority to regulate. It is this category of interests which,

as I understand it, MR.

JusTIcE STFwART

refers to as "'im-

plicit m the concept of ordered liberty'" Ante, at 537
Because he would confine the reach of substantive due process
protection to interests such as these and because he would
not classify in this category the asserted right to share a house
with the relatives involved here, he rejects the due process
claim.
Given his premse, he is surely correct. Under our cases,
the Due Process Clause extends substantial protection to
various phases of family life, but none requires that the claim
made here be sustained. I cannot believe that the interest in
residing with more than one set of grandchildren is one that
calls for any kind of heightened protection under the Due
Process Clause. To say that one has a personal right to live
with all, rather than some, of one's grandchildren and that this
right is implicit in ordered liberty is, as my Brother STEWART
says, "to extend the linted substantive contours of the Due
Process Clause beyond recognition." Ibid. The present claim
is hardly one of which it could be said that "neither liberty nor
justice would exist if [it] were sacrificed." Palko v Connecticut, 302 U S., at 326.
MR. JusTicE PowELL would apparently construe the Due
Process Clause to protect from all but quite important state
regulatory interests any right or privilege that in his estimate is deeply rooted in the country's traditions. For me,
this suggests a far too expansive charter for this Court and a
far less meaningful and less confining guiding principle than
MR.

JuSTICE

STEWART

would use for serious substantive due

process review What the deeply rooted traditions of the
country are is arguable, which of them deserve the protection of the Due Process Clause is even more debatable. The
suggested view would broaden enormously the horizons of

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
WHiTE, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

the Clause, and, if the interest involved here is any measure
of what the States would be forbidden to regulate, the courts
would be substantively weighing and very likely invalidating
a wide range of measures that Congress and state legislatures
think appropriate to respond to a changing economic and
social order.
Mrs. Moore's interest in having the offspring of more than
one dependent son live with her qualifies as a liberty protected by the Due Process Clause, but, because of the nature
of that particular interest, the demands of the Clause are
satisfied once the Court is assured that the challenged proscription is the product of a duly enacted or promulgated
statute, ordinance, or regulation and that it is not wholly
lacking in purpose or utility That under this ordinance any
number of unmarried children may reside with their mother
and that this number might be as destructive of neighborhood values as one or more additional grandchildren is just
another argument that children and grandchildren may not
constitutionally be distinguished by a local zoning ordinance.
That argument remains unpersuasive to me. Here the
head of the household may house himself or herself and
spouse, their parents, and any number of their unmarried
children. A fourth generation may be represented by only
one set of grandchildren and then only if born to a dependent
child. The ordinance challenged by appellant prevents her
from living with both sets of grandchildren only in East
-Cleveland, an area with a radius of three miles and a population of 40,000. Brief for Appellee 16 n. 1. The ordinance
thus denies appellant the opportunity to live with all her
grandchildren in this particular suburb, she is free to do so
in other parts of the Cleveland metropolitan area. If there
is power to maintain the character of a single-family neighborhood, as there surely is, some limit must be placed on the
reach of the "family" Had it been our task to legislate, we

MOORE v. EAST CLEVELAND
494

WHITE, J., dissenting

might have approached the problem in a different manner
than did the drafters of this ordinance, but I have no trouble
in concluding that the normal goals of zoning regulation are
present here and that the ordinance serves these goals by
limiting, in identifiable circumstances, the number of people
who can occupy a single household. The ordinance does not
violate the Due Process Clause.
IV
For very similar reasons, the equal protection clain must
fail, since it is not to be judged by the strict scrutiny standard employed when a fundamental interest or suspect classification is involved, see, e. g., Dunn v Blumstem, 405 U S.
330 (1972), and Korematsu v United States, 323 U S. 214
(1944), or by the somewhat less strict standard of Crasg v
Boren, 429 U S. 190 (1976), Califano v Webster, 430 U S. 313
(1977), Reed v Reed, 404 U S. 71 (1971), and Royster Guano
Rather, it is the
Co. v Virginia, 253 U. S. 412, 415 (1920)
v
generally applicable standard of McGowan Maryland, 366
U S. 420, 425 (1961)
"The constitutional safeguard [of the Equal Protection
Clause] is offended only if the classification rests on
grounds wholly irrelevant to the achievement of the
State's objective. State legislatures are presumed to
have acted within their constitutional power despite the
fact that, in practice, their laws result in some inequality A statutory discrimination will not be set aside if
any state of facts reasonably may be conceived to justify
it."
See also Dandndge v Williams, 397 U S. 471 (1970), Massachusetts Bd. of Retirement v Murgma, 427 U S. 307
(1976)
Under this standard, it is not fatal if the purpose of
the law is not articulated on its face, and there need be only
a rational relation to the ascertained purpose.

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
WHITE,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

On this basis, as already indicated, I have no trouble in
discerning a rational justification for an ordinance that permts the head of a household to house one, but not two,
dependent sons and their children.
Respectfully, therefore, I dissent and would affirm the
judgment.

