EPA v. BROWN
Syllabus

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY v. BROWN,
GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 75-909. Argued January 12, 1977-Decided May 2, 1977*
This Court will not review judgments of the Courts of Appeals invalidatmg transportation control plan regulations promulgated by the Admmistrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under the Clean
Air Act and imposed on various States as elements of an implementation plan, where the federal parties have not only renounced an intent
to seek review of the invalidation of certain regulations but have
conceded that those remaining m controversy are invalid unless modified.
No. 75-909, 521 F 2d 825 and 827, No. 75-960, 530 F 2d 215, Nos. 751050 and 75-1055, 172 U. S. App. D. C. 311, 521 F 2d 971, vacated
and remanded.

Deputy Solicitor General Randolph argued the cause for
petitioners in Nos. 75-909 and 75-960, for petitioner in No.
75-1055, and for respondent in No. 75-1050. With hun on
the briefs were Solicitor General Bork, Assistant Attorney
General Taft, HarrietS. Shapiro, Edmund B Clark, Bruce J
Chasan,Neil T Proto, John E Bonne, and Gerald K. Gleason.
David G Hawkins argued the cause and filed briefs for
Washington Area Bicyclist Assn., Inc., et al., respondents
under this Court's Rule 21 (4), in support of petitioners in
Nos. 75-909, 75-960, and 75-1055. Joel S. Moskowitz, Deputy
*Together with Environmental Protection Agency v. Arizona et al., also

on certiorari to the same court (see this Court's Rule 23 (5)), No. 75-960,
Environmental ProtectionAgency v. Maryland, on certiorari to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit; and No. 75-1050, Virgirna ex rel. State Air Pollution Control Board v. Costle, Administrator,
Environmental ProtectionAgency, and No. 75-1055, Costle, Administrator,
Environmental Protection Agency v. District of Columbia et al., both on
certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of

Columbia Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Per Curiam

431 U. S.

Attorney General of California, and Henry R. Lord, Deputy
Attorney General of Maryland, argued the cause for respondents in Nos. 75-909, 75-960, and 75-1055, and for petitioner
in No. 75-1050. With them on the brief were Bruce E Babbitt,
Attorney General of Arizona, and Anthony B Ching, Assistant
Attorney General, Evelle J Younger, Attorney General of
California, and Mark I Wemberger, Deputy Attorney General, Francis B Burch, Attorney General of Maryland, and
Edward M. Norton, Jr., Assistant Attorney General, Andrew
P Miller, Attorney General of Virginia, Walter A. McFarlane,
Deputy Attorney General, and J Thomas Steger, Assistant
Attorney General, John R. Risher, Jr., Corporation Counsel of
the District of Columbia, Loums P Robbns, Principal Assistant
Corporation Counsel, and John C Salyer, Assistant Corporation Counsel.t
PER CuRIAM.

These cases arise under the Clean Air Act, as amended by
the Clean Air Amendments of 1970, 84 Stat. 1676, 42 U S. C.
§ 1857 et seq., and raise questions concerning the authority of
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to
compel various types of implementation and enforcement
actions by the States. Four separate decisions in the Courts
of Appeals reviewed transportation control plans promulgated
by the Administrator for several States which had previously
failed to submit adequate plans of their own. Four petitions
have been filed seeking review of those decisions which, with
limited exceptions, invalidated the Administrator's transportation control plans which had been adopted in the form of
regulations.
Those transportation control plans have a variety of aspects
tW Bernard Richland and Alexander Gigante, Jr., filed a brief for the
city of New York as amicus curiae urging reversal in part in Nos. 75-1050
and 75-1055, and affirmance in Nos. 75-909 and 75-960.
Ronald A. Zumbrun and John H. Findley filed a brief for the Pacific
Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging affirmance in all cases.

EPA v. BROWN

99

Per Curiam

which need not be discussed in great detail to explain our disposition of these cases. In general, they imposed upon the
States the obligations (1) to develop an inspection and maintenance program pertaining to the vehicles registered in the
affected Air Quality Control Regions, and to submit to the
Administrator, by fixed deadlines, both a schedule of compliance and the operative regulations by which the program was
to be run, (2) to develop various retrofit programs pertaining
to several classes of older vehicles, in order to minimize several different types of emissions, (3) to designate and enforce
preferential bus and carpool lanes, on streets sometimes
specifically identified in the regulations and sometimes left
to be chosen by the State, (4) to develop a program to monitor actual emissions as affected by the foregoing programs,
and (5) to adopt certain other programs which varied from
State to State.
The critical fact about all of the foregoing obligations was
that they were imposed on the States, under 40 CFR § 52.23
(1976), as elements of an applicable implementation plan. A
State's failure to carry out any of them would therefore not
merely allow the Administrator to step in an f carry them out
himself under § 113 (a) (2) of the Clean Air Act,' but would,

ISection 113 (a) (2), 42 U. S. C. § 1857c-8 (a) (2), provides:
"Whenever, on the basis of information available to hun, the Admmistrator finds that violations of an applicable implementation plan are
so widespread that such violations appear to result from a failure of the
State in which the plan applies to enforce the plan effectively, he shall
so notify the State. If the Administrator finds such failure extends beyond
the 30th day after such notice, he shall give public notice of such finding.
During the period beginning with such public notice and ending when such
State satisfies the Administrator that it will enforce such plan (hereafter
referred to in this section as 'period of federally assumed enforcement'),
the Administrator may enforce any requirement of such plan with respect
to any person"(A) by issuing an order to comply with such requirement, or
"(B) by bringing a civil action under subsection (b) of this section."

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Per Curiam

431 U. S.

in the view of each of the Courts of Appeals, render the State
"inviolation of any requirement of an applicable implementation plan" and therefore apparently subject to direct enforcement actions against it under the provisions of § 113 (a) (1),
42 U S. C. § 1857c-8 (a) (1)
"Whenever, on the basis of any information available
to him, the Administrator finds that any person is in violation of any requirement of an applicable implementation plan, the Administrator shall notify the person m
violation of the plan and the State in which the plan
applies of such finding. If such violation extends beyond
the 30th day after the date of the Administrator's notification, the Administrator may issue an order requiring
such person to comply with the requirements of such plan
or he may bring a civil action in accordance with subsection (b)of this section."
Under dual challenges by the States that these regulations
were not within the mandate of the Act, and that if they were
they were m violation of the Constitution, the United States
Courts of Appeals for the Ninth, Fourth, and District of
Columbia Circfuits struck them down. All of the courts
rested on statutory interpretation, but noted also that serious
constitutional questions might be raised if the statute were
read as the United States argued it should be. Brown v EPA,
521 F 2d 827 (CA9 1975), Arizona v EPA, 521 F 2d 825
(CA9 1975), Dtstrct of Columbia v Train, 172 U S. App.
D C. 311, 521 F 2d 971 (1975), Maryland v EPA, 530 F 2d
215 (CA4 1975)
The only substantial variation in the outcome of these decisions 2 was that the District of Columbia
Circuit affirmed regulations requiring the creation of bus
lanes, the purchase by the affected jurisdictions of a fixed
Prior to the decision of the Ninth Circuit, a similar set of regulations
pertaining to Pennsylvania had been upheld by the Third Circuit. Pennsylvanta v EPA, 500 F 2d 246 (1974). That decision is not presently
before the Court.
2

EPA v. BROWN
99

103 ,

Per Curiam

number of new buses, and the denial of registration to a vehicle
whose owner is unable to produce a federal certificate of compliance, should a federal inspection program be instituted.
The Solicitor General's petitions from all three Courts of
Appeals challenged them only insofar as they invalidated the
regulations requiring state inspection and maintenance programs. In addition, we granted the petition for certiorari of
the Commonwealth of Virginia on its challenge to the regulations which the District of Columbia Circuit had upheld.
Prior to argument, the Solicitor General informed the Court
that repeal of the bus purchase regulations was imminent,
Reply Brief for Federal Parties 25,1 and that issue was thereby
effectively removed from the case. Thus the litigation has
undergone a great deal of shrinkage since the decisions below
due to the federal parties' exercise of their prerogative not to
seek review of the invalidation of certain regulations.
But the federal parties have not merely renounced an intent
to pursue certain specified regulations, they now appear to
admit that those remaining in controversy are invalid unless
modified in certain respects:
"The Administrator
concedes the necessity of removing from the regulations all requirements that the
States submit legally adopted regulations, the [Admmistrator's] regulations contain no requirement that the
State adopt laws." Brief for Federal Parties 20 n. 14.
The federal parties' position now appears to be that, while the
challenged transportation plans do not require the enactment
of state legzslatwn, they do now contain, and must be modified
to eliminate, certain requirements that the State promulgate
regulaotwns. See Reply Brief for Federal Parties 14 n. 22.
We decline the federal parties' invitation to pass upon the
EPA regulations, when the only ones before us are admitted to
be in need of certain essential modifications. Such action on
3 The regulations were officially rescinded on February 8, 1977
Reg. 7957

42 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS, J., dissenting

431 U.

S.

our part would amount to the rendering of an advisory opinion. For this Court to review regulations normally required to
be first reviewed in the Court of Appeals, before such review is
had, is extraordinary See Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v
For it to review regSawyer, 343 U S. 579, 584-585 (1952)
ulations not yet promulgated, the final form of which has
only been hinted at, would be wholly novel. See generally
Columbia BroadcastingSystem v UnitedStates, 316 U S. 407,
417-419 (1942), United States v Los Angeles & Salt Lake R.
Co., 273 U S. 299, 309-310 (1927)
The judgments of the respective Courts of Appeals are
vacated, and the cases are remanded for consideration of
mootness and such other proceedings as may be consistent
with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUsTICE STEvENs, dissenting.
The action the Court takes today is just as puzzling as the
federal parties' position. Unless and until the Environmental
Protection Agency rescinds the regulations in dispute, it is
perfectly clear that the litigation is not moot. Moreover, an
apparent admission that those regulations are invalid unless
modified is not a proper reason for vacating the Court of
Appeals judgments which invalidated the regulations.
If the Court is satisfied that the EPA Administrator will
modify the regulations regardless of the outcome of the litigation, the writs of certiorari should be dismissed as improvidently granted. On the other hand, if the survival of the
regulations is dependent on our disposition of these cases, we
should address the merits and resolve the issues which have
been fully briefed and argued. By vacating the judgments
below, the Court hands the federal parties a partial victory as
a reward for an apparent concession that their position is not
supported by the statute. I respectfully dissent.

