OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Syllabus

431 U. S.

TRAINOR, DIRECTOR, ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC AID, ET AL. V. HERNANDEZ ET UX.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

No. 75-1407

Argued January 18, 1977-Decided May 31, 1977

Rather than charging appellees with the crime of fraudulently concealing
assets while applying for and receiving public assistance, the Illinois
Department of Public Aid (IDPA) brought a civil action against
appellees in state court seeking only a return of the welfare payments
alleged to have been wrongfully received, and as part of the action a
writ of attachment was issued and executed pursuant to the Illinois
Attachment Act against appellees' property without notice or hearing.
Instead of seeking a prompt hearing m the state court or moving there
to quash the attachment on federal constitutional grounds, appellees
filed suit against appellant IDPA officials in Federal District Court,
alleging that the Attachment Act was unconstitutional in that it provided
for deprivation of debtors' property without due process of law, and
seeking, inter alia, return of the attached property Declimng to dismiss
the complaint under the doctrine of Younger v Harris, 401 U. S. 37,
and Huffman v Pursue, Ltd., 420 U. S. 592, a three-judge court held
the Act unconstitutional and issued an injunction directing return of
appellees' attached property Held. The District Court should have
dismissed appellees' complaint under Younger, supra, and Huffman,
supra, unless their state remedies were inadequate to litigate their
federal due process claim, since the injunction asked for and issued by
the court interfered with Illinois' efforts to utilize the Attachment Act
as an integral part of the State's enforcement action. Pp. 440-447
(a) The principles of Younger and Huffman are broad enough to
apply to interference by a federal court with an ongoing civil enforcement action such as this, brought by the State in its sovereign capacity

Pp. 443-444.
(b) For the federal court to have proceeded with the case rather
than remitting appellees to their remedies in the pending state suit
confronts the State with the choice of engaging in duplicative litigation,
thereby risking a temporary federal injunction, or of interrupting its
enforcement proceedings pending the federal court's decision at some
unknown time in the future; and forecloses the state court's opportunity

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

Opinon of the Court

to construe the challenged statute in the face of the federal constitutional
challenges that would also be pending for decision before it. P 445.
(c) There was no basis for the District Court's proceeding to judgment on the ground that extraordinary circumstances warranted federal
interference. There is no suggestion that the pending state action was
brought m bad faith or to harass appellees and no basis for finding that
the Attachment Act violated "express constitutional provisions m every
clause, sentence and paragraph and in whatever manner and against
whomever an effort might be made to apply it." Pp. 446-447
405 F Supp. 757, reversed and remanded.
WHITE, J., delivered the opimon of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
and BLACKMUN, POWELL, and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined. BLACKMUN, J.,
filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 448. BRENNAN, J., filed a dissenting
opinion, in which MARSHALL, J., joined, post, p. 450. STEWART, J., filed a
dissenting statement, post, p. 448. STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion,
post, p. 460.

Paul J Bargiel, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois,
argued the cause for appellants. With him on the briefs were
William J Scott, Attorney General, and Stephen R. Swofford,
Assistant Attorney General.
John Denner III argued the cause for appellees Finley et
al. in support of appellants. With hn on the briefs were
Bernard Carey and Paul P Bsebel, Jr
Fred L. Lseb argued the cause for appellees Hernandez et
ux. With him on the brief were Alan Dockterman,James 0
Latturner, and Sheldon Roodman.
MR.

JusTxcp

WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Illinois Department of Public Aid (IDPA) filed a lawsuit m the Circuit Court of Cook County, Ill., on October 30, 1974, against appellees Juan and Maria Hernandez,
alleging that they had fraudulently concealed assets while
applying for and receiving public assistance. Such conduct
is a crime under Illinois law, Ill. Rev Stat., c. 23, § 11-21
(1973)
The IDPA, however, proceeded civilly and sought
only return of the money alleged to have been wrongfully

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

received. The IDPA simultaneously instituted an attachment proceeding against appellees' property Pursuant to
the Illinois Attachment Act, Ill. Rev Stat., c. 11 (1973)
(Act), the IDPA filed an affidavit setting forth the nature
and amount of the underlying clann and alleging that the
appellees had obtained money from the IDPA by fraud.'
The writ of attachment was issued automatically 2 by the
clerk of the court upon receipt of this affidavit.' The writ
I Under § 1 of the Act, a writ will ssue only upon allegation m the affidavit of one of the following nine grounds:
"First: Where the debtor is not a resident of this State.
"Second: When the debtor conceals himself or stands in defiance of an
officer, so that process cannot be served upon him.
"Third. Where the debtor has departed from this State with the intention of having his effects removed from this State.
"Fourth. Where the debtor is about to depart from this State with the
intention of having his effects removed from this State.
"Fifth: Where the debtor is about to remove his property from this
State to the injury of such creditor.
"Sixth: Where the debtor has within 2 years preceding the filing of the
affidavit required, fraudulently conveyed or assigned his effects, or a part
thereof, so as to hinder or delay his creditors.
"Seventh: Where the debtor has, within 2 years prior to the filing of
such affidavit, fraudulently concealed or disposed of his property so as to
hinder or delay his creditors.
"Eighth: Where the debtor is about fraudulently to conceal, assign, or
otherwise dispose of his property or effects, so as to hinder or delay his
creditors.
"Ninth: Where the debt sued for was fraudulently contracted on the
part of the debtor: Provided, the statements of the debtor, his agent or
attorney, which constitute the fraud, shall have been reduced to writing,
and his signature attached thereto, by himself, agent or attorney"
2 Under § 2 of the Act, in cases sounding in tort the writ is not issued
until a judge has examined the plaintiff under oath and determined that
the damages suffered exceed the amount of the attachment.
3 Section 2 of the Act provides in part:
"2. Affidavit-Statement-Examination under oath. § 2. To entitle a
creditor to such a writ of attachment, he or his agent or attorney shall
make and file with the clerk of the circuit court, an affidavit setting forth

TIIAINOR v HERNANDEZ
434

Opinon of the Court

was then given to the sheriff who executed it, on November 5,
1974, on money belonging to appellees in a credit union.
Appellees received notice of the attachment, freezing their
money in the credit union, on November 8, 1974, when they
received the writ, the complaint, and the affidavit in support
of the writ. The writ indicated a return date for the attachment proceeding of November 18, 1974.1 Appellees appeared
in court on November 18, 1974, and were informed that the
matter would be continued until December 19, 1974. Appellees never iled an answer either to the attachment or to
the underlying complaint.' They did not seek a prompt hearthe nature and amount of the claim, so far as practicable, after allowing
all just credits and set-offs, and any one or more of the causes mentioned
in section 1, and also stating the place of residence of the defendants, if
known, and if not known, that upon diligent inquiry the affiant has not
been able to ascertain the same together with a written statement, either
embodied in such affidavit or separately in writing, executed by the
attorney or attorneys representing the creditor, to the effect that the
attachment actiQn invoked by such affidavit does or does not sound in
tort, also a designation of the return day for the summons to be issued in
said action."
Since the State was a party, the normal requirement that the plaintiff
post a bond in an amount equal to twice the amount sued for, did not
apply and no bond was posted. See § 4a of the Act.
4 Section 6 of the Act provides:
"The writ of attachment required m the preceding section shall be
directed to the sheriff (and, for purpose only of service of summons, to
any person authorized to serve writs of summons), or in case the sheriff
is interested, or otherwise disqualified or prevented from acting, to the
coroner of the county in which the suit is commenced, and shall be made
returnable on a return day designated by the plaintiff, which day shall not
be less than ten days or more than sixty days after its date."
5 Section 27 of the Act povides:
"The defendant may answer, traversing the facts stated in the affidavit
upon which the attachment issued, which answer shall be verified by
affidavit; and if, upon the trial thereon, the issue shall be found for the
plaintiff, the defendant may answer the complaint or file a motion directed
thereto as in other cases, but if found for the defendant, the attachment
shall be quashed, and the costs of the attachment shall be adjudged against

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

ing, nor did they attempt to quash the attachment on the
ground that the procedures surrounding its issuance rendered
it and the Act unconstitutional. Instead appellees filed the
instant lawsuit in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois on December 2, 1974, seeking,
mnter alia, return of the attached money The federal complaint alleged that the appellees' property had been attached
pursuant to the Act and that the Act was unconstitutional
in that it provided for the deprivation of debtors' property
without due process of law Appellees as plaintiffs sought to
represent a class of those "who have had or may have their
property attached without notice or hearing upon the creditor's
mere allegation of fraudulent conduct pursuant to the Illinois
Attachment Act." App. 6-7 They named as defendants
appellants Trainor and O'Malley, officials of the IDPA, and
sought declaration of a defendant class made up of all the
court clerks in the Circuit Courts of Illinois, and of another
defendant class of all sheriffs in Illinois. They sought an
injunction against Trainor and O'Malley forbidding them to
seek attachments under the Act and an injunction against the
clerks and sheriffs forbidding them to issue or serve writs of
attachment under the Act. Appellees also sought preliminary
relief in the form of an order directing the Sheriff of Cook
County to release the property which had been attached.
Finally, appellees sought the convening of a three-judge court
pursuant to 28 U S. C. § 2284.
The District Court declined to rule on the request for preliminary relief because the parties had agreed that one-half
of the money in the credit union would be returned. A
three-judge court was convened. It certified the suit as a
plaintiff and defendant class action as appellees had requested.
App. 63. In an opinion dated December 19, 1975, almost one
year after the return date of the attachment in state court, it
the plaintiff, but the suit shall proceed to final judgment as though
commenced by summons."

TRAINOR v. BERNANDEZ
434

Oplnon of the Court

declined to dismiss the case under the doctrine of Younger
v Hams, 401 U S. 37 (1971), and Huffman v Pursue, Ltd.,
420 U S. 592 (1975), stating:
"In Huffman, the State of Ohio proceeded under a statute
which gave an exclusive right of action to the state. By
contrast, the Illinois Attachment Act provides a cause of
action for any person, public or private. It is mere happenstance that the State of Illinois was the petitioner in
this attachment proceeding. It is likewise coincidental
that the pending state proceedings may arguably be
quasi-criminal in nature, under the Illinois Attachment
Act, they need not be. These major distinctions preclude this Court from extending the principles of Younger,
based on considerations of equity, comity and federalism,
beyond the quasi-crimnal situation set forth in Huffman."
Hernandez v Danaher,405 F Supp. 757, 760 (1975).
Proceeding to the merits, it held § § 1, 2, 2a, 6, 8, 10, and 14
of the Act to be "on [their face] patently violative of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution." 405 F Supp., at 762. It ordered the
clerk of the court and the Sheriff of Cook County to return to
appellees the rest of their attached property; it enjoined all
clerks and all sheriffs from issuing or serving attachment writs
pursuant to the Act and ordered them to release any currently
held attached property to its owner; and it enjoined appellants Tramor and O'Malley from authorizing applications for
attachment writs pursuant to the Act. App. 65-66. Appellants appealed to this Court under 28 U S. C. § 1253, claiming
that under Younger and Huffman principles the District Court
should have dismissed the suit without passing on the constitionality of the Act and that the Act is in any event constitutional.0 Since we agree with appellants that Younger and
6

Appellees argue that the sheriffs and clerks have .not perfected their
appeals and that the IDPA officials cannot litigate m connection with

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U.S.

Hujman principles do apply here, we do not reach their second claim.
Because our federal and state legal systems have overlapping jurisdiction and responsibilities, we have frequently
inquired into the proper role of a federal court, in a case pending before it and otherwise within its jurisdiction, when litigation between the same .parties and raising the same issues
is or apparently soon will be pending in a state court. More
precisely, when a suit is filed in a federal court challenging the
constitutionality of a state law under the Federal Constitution
and seeking to have state officers enjoined from enforcing it,
should the federal court proceed to judgment when it appears
that the State has already instituted proceedings in the state
court to enforce the challenged statute against the federal
plaintiff and the latter could tender and have his federal
claims decided in the state court?
Younger v Harms, supra, and Samuels v Mackell, 401 U S.
66 (1971), addressed these questions where the already pending state proceeding was a criminal prosecution and the federal plaintiff sought to invalidate the statute under which the
state prosecution was brought. In these circumstances, the
Court ruled that the Federal District Court should issue
neither a declaratory judgment nor an injunction but should
dismiss the case. The first justification the Court gave for
this rule was simply the "basic doctrine of equity jurisprudence that courts of equity should not act, and particularly
should not act to restrain a criminal prosecution, when the
moving party has an adequate remedy at law and will not
their appeals the validity of the injunction directing the clerk of the court
to return appellees' property m the credit union. The argument is meritless. The IDPA officials were parties below; the order directing the
clerk to return the property attached for the benefit of IDPA affects their
interests m a vital way; and their ability to obtain review of such an order
cannot depend on whether the clerk-over whom IDPA has no controlchooses to perfect his appeal.

TRAINOR v. ERNANDEZ
434

Opinion of the Court

suffer irreparable injury if denied equitable relief." Younger
v Harris,supra, at 43-44.
Beyond the accepted rule that equity will ordinarily not
enjoin the prosecution of a crime, however, the Court voiced a
"more vital consideration," 401 U S., at 44, namely, that in a
Union where both the States and the Federal Government
are sovereign entities, there are basic concerns of federalism
which counsel against interference by federal courts, through
injunctions or otherwise, with legitimate state functions, particularly with the operation of state courts. Relying on cases
that declared that courts of equity should give "scrupulous
regard [to] the rightful independence of state governments,"
Beal v Missouri Pacific R. Co., 312 U S. 45, 50 (1941), the
Court held, that in this intergovernmental context, the two
classic preconditions for the exercise of equity jurisdiction assumed new dimensions. Although the existence of an adequate remedy at law barring equitable relief normally would
be determined by inquiring into the remedies available in the
federal rather than in the state courts, Great Lakes Co.
v Huffman, 319 U S. 293, 297 (1943), here the inquiry was
to be broadened to focus on the remedies available in the
pending state proceeding. "'The accused should first set up
and rely upon his defense in the state courts, even though this
involves a challenge of the validity of some statute, unless it
plainly appears that this course would not afford adequate
protection.'" Younger v Harms, supra, at 45, quoting Fenner
v Boykin, 271 U S. 240, 243-244 (1926)
Dismissal of
the federal suit "naturally presupposes the opportunity to
raase and have timely decided by a competent state tribunal
the federal issues involved." Gibson v Berryhill, 411 U S.
564, 577 (1973)
"The policy of equitable restraint
is
founded on the premise that ordinarily a pending state prosecution provides the accused a fair and sufficient opportunity
for vindication of federal constitutional rights." Kugler v
Helfant, 421 U S. 117, 124 (1975)

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

The Court also concluded that the other precondition for
equitable relief-irreparable injury-would not be satisfied
unless the threatened injury was both great and immediate.
The burden of conducting a defense in the criminal prosecution was not sufficient to warrant interference by the federal
courts with legitimate state efforts to enforce state laws,
only extraordinary circumstances would suffice.7 As the
See Kugler v Helfant, 421 U. S. 117, 124-125 (1975)
"Although the cost, anxiety, and mconvemence of having to defend
against a single criminal prosecution alone do not constitute 'irreparable
injury' in the 'special legal sense of that term,' [Younger v Harms, 401
U S.,] at 46, the Court in Younger left room for federal equitable intervention m a state criminal trial where there is a showing of 'bad faith' or
'harassment' by state officials responsible for the prosecution, id., at. 54,
where the state law to be applied in the criminal proceeding is "flagrantly
and patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions,"' zd., at 53,
or where there exist other 'extraordinary circumstances in which the
necessary irreparable injury can be shown even m the absence of the usual
prerequisites of bad faith and harassment.' Iid.
In the companion case
of Perez v Ledesma, 401 U. S.82, the Court explained that '[o]nly in cases
of proven harassment or prosecutions undertaken by state officials in bad
faith without hope of obtaining a valid conviction and perhaps in other
extraordinary circumstances where irreparable injury can be shown is
federal injunctive relief against pending state prosecutions appropriate.'
Id., at 85. See Mitchum v Foster,407 U. S.225,230-231.
"The policy of equitable restraint expressed in Younger v Harrs, in
short, is founded on the premise that ordinarily a pending state prosecution provides the accused a fair and sufficient opportunity for vindication
of federal constitutional rights. See Steffel v Thompson, 415 U S. 452,
460. Only if 'extraordinary circumstances' render the state court incapable
of fairly and fully adjudicating the federal issues before it, can there be
any relaxation of the deference to be accorded to the state criminal
process. The very nature of 'extraordinary circumstances,' of course,
makes it impossible to anticipate and define every situation that ight
create a sufficient threat of such great, immediate, and irreparable injury
as to warrant intervention in state criminal proceedings. [Footnote
omitted.] But whatever else is required, such circumstances must be
'extraordinary' in the sense of creating an extraordinarily pressing need
for immediate federal equitable relief, not merely in the sense of presenting
a highly unusual factual situation."
7

TRAINOR v. BERNANDEZ
434

Opinon of the Court

Court later explained, to restrain a state proceeding that
afforded an adequate vehicle for vindicating the federal plaintiff's constitutional rights "would entail an unseemly failure
to give effect to the principle that state courts have the solemn
responsibility equally with the federal courts" to safeguard
constitutional rights and would "reflec[t] negatively upon the
state court's ability" to do so. Steffel v Thompson, 415 U S.
452, 460-461, 462 (1974)
The State would be prevented
not only from "effectuating its substantive policies, but also
from continuing to perform the separate function of providing
a forum competent to vindicate any constitutional objections
interposed against those policies." Huff man v Pursue, Ltd.,
420 U S., at 604.
Huffman involved the propriety of a federal injunction
against the execution of a judgment entered in a pending
state-court suit brought by the State to enforce a nuisance
statute. Although the state suit was a civil rather than a
criminal proceeding, Younger principles were held to require
dismissal of the federal suit. Noting that the State was a
party to the nuisance proceeding and that the nuisance
statute was "in aid of and closely related to criminal statutes,"
the Court concluded that a federal injunction would be "an
offense to the State's interest in the nuisance litigation
[which] is likely to be every bit as great as it would be were
this a criminal proceeding." 420 U S.; at 604. Thus, while
the traditional maxim that equity will not enjoin a crimnal
prosecution strictly speaking did not apply to the nuisance
proceeding in Huffman, the "'more vital consideration'" of
comity, id., at 601, quoting Younger v Harms, 401 U. S., at 44,
counseled restraint as strongly in the context of the pending
state civil enforcement action as in the context of a pending
criminal proceeding. In these circumstances, it was proper
that the federal court stay its hand.
We have recently applied the analysis of Huffman to proceedings similar to state civil enforcement actions-judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

contempt proceedings. Jutdice v Vail, 430 U S. 327 (1977)
The Court again stressed the "more vital consideration" of
comity underlying the Younger doctrine and held that the
state interest in vindicating the regular operation of its judicial system through the contempt process-whether that
process was labeled civil, criminal, or quasi-crimnal-was sufficiently important to preclude federal injunctive relief unless
Younger standards were met.
These cases control here. An action against appellees was
pending in state court when they filed their federal suit. The
state action was a suit by the State to recover from appellees
welfare payments that allegedly had been fraudulently obtained. The writ of attachment issued as part of that action.
The District Court thought that Younger policies were irrelevant because suits to recover money and writs of attachment
were available to private parties as well as the State, it was
only because of the coincidence that the State was a party
that the suit was "arguably" in aid of the crimnal law But
the fact remains that the State was a party to the suit in its
role of administering its public-assistance programs. Both the
suit and the accompanying writ of attachment were brought
to vindicate important state policies such as safeguarding the
fiscal integrity of those programs. The state authorities also
had the option of vindicating these policies through criminal
prosecutions. See supra, at 435. Although, as in Jutdice, the
State's interest here is "[p]erhaps
not quite as important
as is the State's interest in the enforcement of its criminal
laws
or even its interest in the maintenance of a quasicriminal proceeding
," 430 U S., at 335, the principles of
Younger and Huffman are broad enough to apply to interference by a federal court with an ongoing civil enforcement
action such as this, brought by the State in its sovereign
capacity 8
8 Title 28 U S. C. § 2283 provides that "[a] court of the United States
may not grant an injunction to stay proceedings in a State court except as

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

Opinion of the Court

For a federal court to proceed with its case rather than to
remit appellees to their remedies in a pending state enforcement suit would confront the State with a choice of engaging
in duplicative litigation, thereby risking a temporary federal
injunction, or of interrupting its enforcement proceedings
pending decision of the federal court at some unknown time in
the future. It would also foreclose the opportunity of the
state court to construe the challenged statute in the face of the
actual federal constitutional challenges that would also be
pending for decision before it, a privilege not wholly shared
by the federal courts. Of course, in the case before us the
expressly authorized by Act of Congress, or where necessary in aid of its
jurisdiction, or to protect or effectuate its judgments." The section is not
applicable here because this 42 U. S. C. § 1983 action is an express statutory exception to its application, Mitchum v.Foster,407 IT. S. 225 (1972),
but it is significant for present purposes that the section does not discrnmmate between civil and criminal proceedings pending in state courts.
Furthermore, 28 U. S. C. § 1341 provides that district courts shall not
enjoin, suspend, or restrain the levy or collection of any tax under state
law where there are adequate remedies available in state tribunals.
Prior cases in this Court that at the time counseled restraint m actions
seeking to enjoin state officials from enforcing state statutes or implementing public policies, did not necessarily distinguish between the type of
proceedings-civil or crimnal-pending or contemplated by state officers.
Wilson v Schnettler, 365 U. S. 381, 384-385 (1961), Allegheny County v
Mashuda Co., 360 U. S. 185, 189-190 (1959), Alabama Public Servwe
Comm'n v Southern R. Co., 341 U. S. 341, 349-350 (1951), Burford v Sun
Oil Co., 319 U. S. 315, 317-318 (1943), Great Lakes Co. v Huffman, 319
U. S. 293, 297-298 (1943), Brillhart v Excess Ins. Co., 316 U. S.
491, 494-495 (1942), Watson v Buck, 313 U. S. 387, 400-401 (1941),
Beal v Missouri Pacific R. Co., 312 U. S. 45, 49-50 (1941), Spzelman
Motor Sales Co. v Dodge, 295 U. S. 89, 95-97 (1935), Pennsy7vanz v
Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 185 (1935), Hawks v Hamill, 288 U. S. 52,
60-61 (1933), Matthews v Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521, 525-526 (1932),
Massachusetts State Grange v Benton, 272 U. S.525, 527 (1926), Fenner
v Boykzn, 271 U. S. 240, 243 (1926).
As in Juidice v Vail, 430 U S. 327, 336 n. 13 (1977), we have no occasion
to decide whether Younger principles apply to all civil litigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

state statute was invalidated and a federal injunction prohibited state officers from using or enforcing the attachment
statute for any purpose. The eviscerating impact on many
state enforcement actions is readily apparent.' This disruption of suits by the State in its sovereign capacity, when
combined with the negative reflection on the State's ability
to adjudicate federal claims that occurs whenever a federal
court enjoins a pending state proceeding, leads us to the
conclusion that the interests of conity and federalism on
which Younger and ,Samuels v Mackell primarily rest apply
in full force here. The pendency of the state-court action
called for restraint by the federal coirt pnd for the dismissal
of appellees' complaint unless extraordinary circumstances
were present warranting federal interference or unless their
state remedies were inadequate to litigate their federal due
process claim.
No extraordinary circumstances warranting equitable relief
were present here. There is no suggestion that the pending
state action was brought in bad faith or for the purpose of
harassing appellees. It is urged that this case comes within
the exception that we said in Younger might exist where a
9 Appellees argue that the injunction issued below m no way interfered
with a pending state case. They point to the fact that only the attachment proceeding was interfered with-the underlying fraud action may
continue unimpeded-and claim that the attachment proceeding is not a
court proceeding within the doctrine of Younger and Huffman. In this
regard they rely on Lynch v Household Finance Corp., 405 U. S. 538
(1972), Fuentes v Shevin, 407 U. S. 67 (1972), and Gerstein v Pugh,
420 U. S. 103 (1975)
None of these cases control here.
In this case the attachment was issued by a court clerk and is very much
a part of the underlying action for fraud. Moreover, the attachment in
this case contained a return date on which the parties were to appear in
court and at which time the appellees would have had an opportunity to
contest the validity, of the attachment. Thus the attachment proceeding
was "pending" in the state courts within the Younger and Huffman doctrine at the time of the federal suit.

TRAINOR v. BERNANDEZ
434

Opinion of the Court

state statute is "'flagrantly and patently violative of express
constitutional prohibitions in every clause, sentence and paragraph, and in whatever manner and against whomever an
effort might be made to apply it.'" 401 U S., at 53-54, quoting Watson v Buck, 313 U S. 387, 402 (1941)
Even if such
a finding was made below, which we doubt (see supra,at 439),
it would not have been warranted in light of our cases. Compare North Georga Finsshng,Inc. v D-Chem, Inc., 419 U. S.
601 (1975), with Mitchell v W T Grant Co., 416 U S. 600
(1974)
As for whether appellees could have presented their federal
due process challenge to the attachment statute in the pending state proceeding, that question, if presented below, was
not addressed by the District Court, which placed its rejection
of Younger and Huffman on broader grounds. The issue is
heavily laden with local law, and we do not rule on it here in
the first instance."0
The grounds on which the District Court refused to apply
the principles of Younger and Huffman were infirm, it was
therefore error, on those grounds, to entertain the action on
behalf of either the named or the unnamed plaintiffs and to
reach the issue of the constitutionality of the Illinois attachment statute3'
The judgment is therefore reversed, and the case is remanded
20 The parties are in disagreement on this issue, the State squarely asserting, and the appellees denying, that the federal due process claim
could have been presented and decided in the pending attachment proceeding. MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, in dissent, offers additional reasons-not relied
on by appellees and not addressed by the State-for concluding that the
state suit did not offer an adequate forum for litigating the federal claim.
We do not resolve these conflicting views.
1 Appellees have argued here that the relief granted in favor of other
class members is not barred by Younger and Huffman because state cases
were not pending against some of them. Since the class should never
have been certified, we need not address this argument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

BLAcxmuN, J., concurring

431 U. S.

to the District Court for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
It ?s so ordered.

substantially agrees with the views
expressed in the dissenting opinions of MR. JusTICE BRENNAN
and MR. JUsTIcE STEVENS. Accordingly, he respectfully disMR. JUSTICE STEWART

sents from the opinion and judgment of the Court.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACKMUN, concurring.
I join the Court's opinion and write only to stress that the
substantiality of the State's interest in its proceeding has
been an important factor in abstention cases under Younger v
Harms, 401 U S. 37 (1971), from the beginning. In discussing
comity, the Court in Younger clearly indicated that both
federal and state interests had to be taken into account:
"The concept does not mean blind deference to 'States'
Rights' any more than it means centralization of control
over every important issue m our National Government
and its courts. The Framers rejected both these courses.
What the concept does represent is a system in which
there is sensitivity to the legitimate interests of both
State and National Governments, and in which the National Government, anxious though it may be to vindicate
and protect federal rights and federal interests, always
endeavors to do so in ways that will not unduly interfere
with the legitimate activities of the States." Id., at 44.
Consistently with this requirement of balancing the federal
and state interests, the Court in previous Younger cases has
imposed a requirement that the State must show that it has
an important interest to vindicate in its own courts before
the federal court must refrain from exercising otherwise proper
federal jurisdiction. In Younger itself, the Court relied on
the State's vital concern in the administration of its criminal
laws. In Huffman v Pursue, Inc., 420 U S. 592 (1975), the

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

BLACIMUN, J.,

concurrmg

Court stressed the fact that it dealt with a quasi-criminal state
proceeding to which the State was a party The proceeding
was both in aid of and closely related to criminal statutes.
Thus, the State's underlying policy interest in the litigation
was deemed to be as great as the interest found in Younger
Similarly, in Juzdice v Vail, 430 U S. 327 (1977), the Court
found that the State's interest in its contempt procedures was
substantial.
In cases where the State's interest has been more attenuated,
the Court has refused to order Younger abstention. Thus, in
Steffel v Thompson, 415 U S. 452 (1974), in which a state
prosecution was merely threatened, the federal court was
free to reach the merits of the claim for a declaratory judgment. Id., at 462. In such a case, "the opportunity for adjudication of constitutional rights in a federal forum, as
authorized by the Declaratory Judgment Act, becomes paramount." Ellis v Dyson, 421 U S. 426, 432 (1975)
See
generally Kanowitz, Deciding Federal Law Issues m Civil
Proceedings: State Versus Federal Trial Courts, 3 Hastings
Const. L. Q. 141 (1976)
Application of these principles to the instant case leads me
to agree with the Court's order reversing and remanding the
case. Like the Court, I am satisfied that a state proceeding
was pending. Ante, at 444, 446 n. 9. I, too, find significant
the fact that the State was a party in its sovereign capacity to
both the state suit and the federal suit. Ante, at 444. Here,
I emphasize the importance of the fact that the state interest in the pending state proceeding was substantial. In
my view, the fact that the State had the option of
proceeding either civilly or criminally to impose sanctions for a fraudulent concealment of assets while one applies for and receives public assistance demonstrates that
the underlying state interest is of the same order of importance
as the interests in Younger and Huffman. The propriety of
abstention should not depend on the State's choice to vindicate its interests by a less drastic, and perhaps more lenient,

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J., dissenting

431 U.S.

route. In addition, as the Court notes, the state-court proceeding played an important role in safeguarding the fiscal
integrity of the public assistance programs. Since the benefits
of the recovery of fraudulently obtained funds are enjoyed by
all the taxpayers of the State, it is reasonable to recognize
a distinction between the State's status as creditor and the
status of private parties using the same procedures.
For me, the existence of the foregoing factors brings this
case squarely within the Court's prior Younger abstention
rulings.
MR. JUSTIcE BRENNAN, with whom MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL

joins, dissenting.
The Court continues on, to me, the wholly inproper course
of extending Younger principles to deny a federal forum to
plaintiffs invoking 42 U S. C. § 1983 for the decision of
meritorious federal constitutional claims when a cmil action
that might entertain such claims is pending in a state court.
Because I am of the view that the decision patently disregards
Congress' purpose in enacting § 1983--to open federal courts
to the decision of such claims without regard to the pendency
of such state civil actions-and because the decision indefensibly departs from prior decisions of this Court, I
respectfully dissent.
I
An attachment proceeding. against appellees' credit union
savings was instituted by the Illinois Department of Public
Aid (IDPA) under the Illinois Attachment Act simultaneously with the filing of a civil lawsuit in state court for the
recovery of public welfare funds allegedly fraudulently obtained. The attachment was initiated when IDPA filled in
the blanks on a standard-form "Affidavit for Attachment"
stating:
"The defendants Juan and Mama Hernandez within
two years preceding the filing of this affidavit fraudu-

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

lently concealed or disposed of property so as to hinder
or delay their creditors." (Italics indicate matter inserted
in blanks by IDPA.) App. 18.
The wording of the affidavit repeats almost verbatim the
language of the Illinois Act,' and provides no underlying
factual allegations upon which a determination can be made
whether the conclusion of fraudulent concealment or disposition of property is justified.' The writ of attachment was
issued as a matter of course by the clerk of the court upon
receipt of the affidavit, and the writ was executed on November 5, 1974.
Appellees appeared in state court on the return date,
November 18, 1974, and were informed that the hearing on

IIllinois Rev Stat., c. 11, § 1 (1973), provides:
"In any court of competent ljunsdiction, a creditor having a money
may have an attachment against the property of his
claim
in any
debtor
either at the time of instituting suit or thereafter
one of the following cases:
"Seventh: Where the debtor has, within 2 years prior to the filing of such
affidavit, fraudulently concealed or disposed of his property so as to
hinder or delay his creditors."
2In fact, it appears that appellees had not "concealed or disposed of
property so as to hinder or delay their creditors" even if the allegations of
the unsworn attachment complaint are taken as true. The complaint only
alleges that they fraudulently concealed personal property in order to
obtain public assistance, not that this concealment was undertaken to
avoid payment to creditors. If any part of the form affidavit is applicable
to appellees. it appears to be § 1 (i), which tracks Ill. Rev Stat., c. 11,
§ 1 (Ninth) (1973)
"The debt sued for was fraudulently contracted on the part of the
or
agent
defendant
and statements of
attorney, which constitute the fraud, have been reduced to writing
signature
attached thereto, by
and
or attorney
" App. 18.
sel[f]
agent
However, IDPA did not fill in the blanks of this portion of the form, and
did not rely on it in seeking the writ of attachment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

the validity of the attachment was continued until December 19, 1974. In the meantime appellees-deprived of the
use of their savings-faced pending rent and car repair bills,
and past due electricity, gas, and telephone bills. On December 2, appellees filed a complaint under 42 U S. C. § 1983 in
Federal District Court seeking a declaratory judgment and an
injunction against enforcement of the Illinois Attachment
Act. On December 5, two weeks before the continued statecourt hearing, appellees sought a temporary restraining order
to release their credit union savings from the custody of the
sheriff. The District Court effected an agreement between
the parties whereby IDPA agreed to the release of one-half of
the attached funds, and accordingly did not act on the motion
3
for the temporary restraining order.
A three-judge District Court was convened. The District
Court found that it was not required to abstain from deciding
the constitutional merits of appellees' challenge, and enjoined
the enforcement of the Act on the ground that the Act
was, "patently and flagrantly violative of the constitution."
Hernandez v Danaher,405 F Supp. 757, 760 (ND Ill. 1975)
This Court reverses and holds that the District Court should
have dismissed the suit, thus continuing the course initiated
in Huffman v Pursue, Ltd., 420 U S. 592 (1975), and
furthered this Term in Jusdice v Vail, 430 U S. 327 (1977), of
extending Younger principles to pending civil actions.
3 The precise date of the agreement to release half of the attached funds
does not appear in the record.
The Court points out that the District Court did not issue its opinion

in this case until about one year after the date on which appellees could
have had their continued heanng in state court to challenge the validity of
the attachment. Ante, at 438-439. This is irrelevant since the motion for
a temporary restraining order, filed two weeks before the continued hearing
in state court, resulted in the agreement to release half of appellees' savings.
Thus, as a practical matter, appellees received important relief in the
Federal District Court at a time when any relief in state court was highly
speculative.

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

II
I have already set out at some length the reasons for my
disagreement with the Court's extension of Younger abstention principles to civil cases, particularly actions under 42
U S. C. § 1983, Huffman v Pursue, Ltd., supra, at 613
(dissenting opinion), Jutdice v Vail, supra, at 341 (dissenting
opinion), and will not repeat them here. The Court suggests
that this case, like Fuffman, involves a statute enacted in aid
of the criminal law In Huffman, the State of Ohio brought
a statutory nuisance suit in state court to close a theater that
had previously been adjudged to have shown obscene films.
Huffman stated, m words quoted by the Court today, that the
nuisance proceeding "was 'in aid of and closely related to
crininal statutes.'" Ante, at 443. The Court states the precise question in this case to be.
"[S]hould the federal court proceed to judgment when
it appears that the State has already instituted proceedings in the state court to enforce the challenged statute
aganst the federal plaintff and the latter could tender
and have his federal claims decided in the state court?"
Ante, at 440.
Emphasizing that the State sued in state court to "vindicate
important state policies," the Court concludes that "the prnciples of Younger and Huffman are broad enough to apply to
interference by a federal court with an ongoing civil enforcement action such as this, brought by the State in its sovereign
capacity" Ante, at 444.
In framing the question and its answer this narrowly, the
Court apparently desires once more to leave "for another day"
the question of the applicability of Younger abstention principles to civil suits generally Ante, at 445 n. 8, Jusdice, supra,
at 345 n. (BRENNAN, J., dissenting), see Huffman, supra, at
607 But the Court's insistence that "the interests of comity
and federalism on which Younger and Samuels v Mackell

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J., dissenting

431 U.S.

primarily rest apply in full force here," ante, at 446, is the
signal that "merely the formal announcement is being postponed," Judice, supra, at 345 n. (BPRNNAN, J., dissenting)
Younger and Samuelis v Mackell, 401 U S. 66 (1971), dismissed federal-court suits because the plaintiffs sought injunctions against pending criminal prosecutions. I agreed with
those results because "[p]ending state criminal proceedings
have always been viewed as paradigm cases involving paramount state interests." Juzdice, supra, at°345 (BRBNNAN, J.,
dissenting) But abstention principles developed to avoid
interfering with state criminal prosecutions are manifestly
inapplicable here.
In this case the federal plaintiffs seek an injunction only
against the use of statutory attachment proceedings which,
properly speaking, are not part of the pending civil suit at
all. The relief granted here in no way interfered with or
prevented the State from proceeding with its suit in state
court. It merely enjoined the use of an unconstitutional
mechanism for attaching assets from which the State hoped
to satisfy its judgment if it prevailed on the merits of the
underlying lawsuit. To say that the interest of the State in
continuing to use an unconstitutional attachment mechanism
to insure payment of a liability not yet established brings
into play "in full force" "all the interests of conty and federalism" present in a state criminal prosecution is simply
wrong. Fuentes v Shemn, 407 U S. 67 (1972), a § 1983 suit
challenging a prejudgment replevin statute, addressed precisely this point. Since the plaintiffs had not sought "an
injunction against any pending or future court proceeding as
such
[but rather] challenged only the sumnmary extrajudicial process of prejudgment seizure of property," Fuentes
concluded that Younger principles posed no bar to a federal
court's granting the relief sought. 407 U S., at 71 n. 3. See
also Lynch v Household Finance Corp., 405 U S.538, 554555 (1972), and Gerstem v Pugh,420 U S. 103 (1975)

TRAINOR v. BERNANDEZ
434

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

The application of Younger principles here is also inappropriate because even in the underlying lawsuit the State seeks
only a civil recovery of money allegedly fraudulently received.
The Court relies on the State's fortuitous presence as a plaintiff in the state-court suit to conclude that the suit is closely
related to a criminal suit, but I am hard pressed to understand
why the "mere happenstance," 405 F Supp., at 760, that the
State of Illinois rather than a private party invoked the
Attachment Act makes this so. The Court's reliance on the
presence of the State here may suggest that it might view
differently an attachment under the same Act at the instance
of a private party, but no reason is advanced why the State
as plaintiff should enjoy such an advantage in its own courts
over the ordinary citizen plaintiff. 4 Under any analysis, it
seems to me that this solicitousness for the State's use of an
unconstitutional ancillary proceeding to a civil lawsuit is
hardly compelled by the great principles of federalism, comity,
and mutual respect between federal and state courts that
account for Younger and its progeny
The principles that give strength to Younger simply do not
support an inflexible rule against federal courts' enjoining
state civil proceedings. Younger was justified primarily on
the basis of the longstanding rule that "courts of equity
particularly should not act to restraan a criminal prosecution."
401 U S., at 43. A comparably rigid rule against enjoining
civil proceedings was never suggested until Huff cn, for in
4

Even if the presence of the State as a plaintiff m the state-court proceeding is held to be of some significance, I fail to see why the federal
courts should accord greater deference to the State's fiscal interest here
than to the far more basic function of collecting state taxes. As my
Brother STEVENS conclusively demonstrates, post, at 464-466, the standard
applied by the Court today goes well beyond the statutory standard for a
federal court's enjoining the collection of taxes, which is predicated only
upon a finding of no "plain, speedy and efficient remedy" under state law.
28 U. S. C. § 1341.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J.,

dissenting

431 U. S.

civil proceedings it cannot be assumed that state interests of
compelling importance outweigh the interests of litigants
seeking vindication of federal rights in federal court, particularly under a statute expressly enacted by Congress to ppovide
a federal forum for that purpose. Even assuming that federal abstention might conceivably be appropriate in some
civil cases, the transformation of what I must think can only
be an exception into an absolute rule crosses the line between
abstention and abdication.
When it enacted § 1983, Congress weighed the competing
demands of "Our Federalism," and consciously decided to
protect federal rights in the federal forum. As we have
previously recognized, § 1983 was enacted for the express
purpose of altering the federal-state judicial balance that had
theretofore existed, and of "offering a uniquely federal remedy
against incursions under the claimed authority of state law
upon rights secured by the Constitution and the laws of the
Nation." Mitchum v Foster, 407 U S. 225, 239 (1972)
State courts are, of course, bound to follow the Federal Constitution equally with federal courts, but Congress has clearly
ordained, as constitutionally it may, that the federal courts
are to be the "primary and powerful reliances" for vindicating federal rights under § 1983. Steffel v Thompson, 415
U S. 452, 464 (1974) (emphasis in original) If federal
courts are to be flatly prohibited, regardless of the circumstances of the individual claim of violation of federal rights,
from implementing this "uniquely federal remedy" because of
deference to purported state interests in the maintenance of
state civil suits, the Court has "effectively cripple[d] the
congressional scheme enacted in § 1983." Juidice v Vail, 430

U S., at 343

(BRENNAN,

J., dissenting)
III

Even assuming, arguendo, the applicability of Younger
principles, I agree with the District Court that the Illinois

TRAINOR v. BERNANDEZ
434

BRENNTAN, J., dissenting

Attachment Act falls within one of the established exceptions
to those principles. As an example of an "extraordinary circumstance" that nght justify federal-court intervention,
Younger referred to a statute that "'might be flagrantly and
patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions in
every clause, sentence and paragraph, and in whatever manner
and against whomever an effort might be made to apply it."'
401 U S., at 53-54, quoting Watson v Buck, 313 U S.
387, 402 (1941)
Explicitly relying on this exception to
Younger, the District Court held that the Illinois Act is
"patently and flagrantly violative of the constitution." 405
F Supp., at 760. The Court holds that this finding is insufficient to bring this case within the Younger exception because
that exception "might exist where a state statute is 'flagrantly
and patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions in
every clause, sentence and paragraph, and in whatever manner
and against whomever an effort might be made to apply it.'
401 U S., at 53-54, quoting Watson v Buck, 313 U S. 387,
402 (1941)
Even if such a finding was made below, which
we doubt
, it would not have been warranted in light of
our cases." Ante, at 446-447 I disagree.
Obviously, a requirement that the Watson v Buck formulation must be literally satisfied renders the exception meaningless, and, as my Brother STEVENS demonstrates, post, at
461-464, elevates to a literalistic definitional status what was
obviously meant only to be illustrative and nonexhaustive.
The human mind does not possess a clairvoyance that can
foresee whether "every clause, sentence and paragraph" of a
statute will be unconstitutional "in whatever manner and
against whomever an effort might be made to apply it." The
only sensible construction of the test is to treat the "every
clause, etc.," wording as redundant, at least when decisions of
this Court make clear that the challenged statute is "patently
and flagrantly violative of the Constitution." I thought that

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAiN, J., dissenting

481 U.S.

the Court had decided as much in Kugler v Helfant, 421 U S.
117, 124 (1975), in stating that "Younger left room for federal
where the
equitable intervention m a state criminal trial
state law to be applied in the criminal proceedingis 'flagrantly
and patently volative of express constitutionalprohibitions."'
(Emphasis supplied.) '
Clearly the Illinois Attachment Act is "patently and flagrantly violative of express constitutional prohibitions" under
the relevant decisions of this Court. North Georgia Finishtng, Inc. v Dt-Chem, Inc., 419 U S. 601 (1975), struck down
a Georgia garnishment statute that permitted the issuance of
a writ of garnishment by the court clerk upon the filing of an
affidavit containing only conclusory allegations, and under
which there was "no provision for an early hearing at which
the creditor would be required to demonstrate at least probable cause for the garnishment." Id., at 607 The Illinois
Attachment Act is constitutionally indistinguishable from the
Georgia statute struck down in North Georgia Finishing. As
in that case, the affidavit filed here contained only conclusory
allegations, which in this case were taken from a preprinted
form requiring only that the affiant fill in the names of the
persons whose property he wished to attach. Upon the filing
of this form affidavit, the court clerk issued the writ of attachment as a matter of course. Far from requiring an "early
hearing" at which to challenge the validity of the attachment, the Illinois Act -provided that the party seeking the
attachment could unilaterally set the return date of the writ
at any time from 10 to 60 days from the date of its execution.
- The quotation, in 421 U. S., at 125 n. 4, of the complete Buck sentence
was carefully identified in Kugler as merely "one example of the type of
circumstances that could justify federal intervention.
" Curiously,
the Court, ante, at 442 n. 7, quotes Kugler's abridged formulation, but
makes no attempt to explain this reference when it finally applies the
"every clause, sentence and paragraph" test as the basis for its decision.

Ante, at 446-447

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

Ill. Rev Stat., c. 11, § 6 (1973)
And, as this case demonstrates, the 60-day interval does not necessarily represent the
outer limit for the actual hearing date, for the Illinois court
here was willing to grant a 30-day continuance beyond the date
provided in the writ of attachment, even though appellees
appeared in court on the proper date and wished to go forward
with the hearing at that time.
No one could seriously contend that the Illinois Act even
remotely resembles that sustained in Mitchell v W T Grant
Co., 416 U. S. 600 (1974), and thus falls within the exception
to Snadach v Family Finance Corp., 395 U S. 337 (1969),
Fuentes v Shemn, 407 U. S. 67 (1972), and North Georgia
Finishing,supra,carved out by that case. W T Grant upheld
a Louisiana sequestration statute under which a writ of sequestration was issued only after the filing of an affidavit in which
"'the grounds relied upon for the issuance of the writ clearly
appear[ed] from specific facts,' "416 U S., at 605. The showing of grounds for the issuance of the writ was made before a
judge rather than a court clerk, id., at 606, and the debtor was
entitled "immediately [to] have a full hearing on the matter
of possession following the execution of the writ," zd., at 610.
None of those procedural safeguards is provided by the Illinois
Act. The three-judge District Court unanimously and correctly concluded that the Act "is on its face patently violative
of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment."
405 F Supp., at 762.
The Court gives only bare citations to North GeorgiaFinishing and W T Grant, ante, at 447, and declines to discuss or
analyze them in even the most cursory manner. These decisions so clearly support the District Court's holding under
any sensible construction of the Younger exception that the
Court's silence, and its insistence upon compliance with the
literal wording of Watson v Buck, only confirms my conviction that the Court is determined to extend to "state civil
proceedings generally the holding of Younger," Huffman v

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

Pursue, Ltd., 420 U S., at 613, and to give its exceptions the
narrowest possible reach. I respectfully dissent.
dissenting.
Today the Court adds four new complexities to a doctrine
that has bewildered other federal courts for several years.'
First, the Court finds a meaningful difference between a state
procedure which is "patently and flagrantly violative of the
Constitution" and one that is "flagrantly and patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions in every clause,
sentence and paragraph, and in whatever manner and against
whomever an effort might be made to apply it." '2 Second,
the Court holds that an unconstitutional collection procedure
may be used by a state agency, though not by others, because
there is "a distinction between the State's status as creditor
and the status of private parties using the same procedures." I
Third, the Court's application of the abstention doctrine in
this case provides even greater protection to a State when it is
proceeding as an ordinary creditor than the statutory protection mandated by Congress for the State in its capacity as a
tax collector. Fourth, without disagreeing with the District
Court's conclusion that the Illinois attachment procedure is
unconstitutional, the Court remands in order to enable the
District Court to decide whether that invalid procedure provides an adequate remedy for the vindication of appellees'
federal rights. A comment on each of these complexities may
shed light on the character of the abstention doctrine as now
viewed by the Court.
MR. JUSTICE STEVENS,

ISee, for example, Judge Pell's search for a synthesizing principle m
his article, Abstention-A Primrose Path by Any Other Name,21 DePaul
L.Rev 926 (1972)
2The Court, ante, at 447, quotes this excerpt from Watson v Buck, 313
U S.387, 402, which inturn was quoted inYounger v Hars, 401 U. S.
37, 53-54.
3See MR. JUSTICE BLA.KmUN's concurring opinion, ante, at 450.

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

STEVEs, J., dissenting

I
The District Court found the Illinois attachment procedure
"patently and flagrantly violative of the constitution." Hernandez v Danaher, 405 F Supp. 757, 760 (ND Ill. 1975)
This Court, on the other hand, writes:
"It is urged that this case comes within the exception
that we said in Younger might exist where a state statute
is 'flagrantly and patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions in every clause, sentence and paragraph, and in whatever manner and against whomever
an effort might be made to apply it.' 401 U S., at 53-54,
Even
quoting Watson v Buck, 313 U S. 387, 402 (1941)
if such a finding was made below, which we doubt
it would not have been warranted in light of our cases."
Ante, at 446-447 (emphasis added) I
Since there is no doubt whatsoever as to what the District
Court actually said, this Court's expression of doubt can only
refer to its uncertainty as to whether a finding that the crux
of the statute is patently and flagrantly unconstitutional is
sufficient to satisfy the requirement that the statute be patently and flagrantly unconstitutional "in every clause, sentence
" It is, therefore, appropriate to consider
and paragraph
what is left of this exception to the Younger doctrine after
today's decision.
The source of this exception is the passage Mr. Justice
Black had written some years earlier in Watson v Buck, 313
U S. 387, 402, a case which involved a complicated state antitrust Act. On the basis of its conclusion that certain sections
were unconstitutional, a three-judge District Court had en4

The cavalier statement that a finding of obvious unconstitutionality
would not have been warranted by prior cases simply ignores the careful
analysis of the serious defects m the Illinois statute identified m the opinion
of the District Court, 405 F Supp., at 760-762, and in Mn. JusTICE BRENNAN's dissenting opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENs, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

joined enforcement of the entire Act.5 This Court reversed,
holding- first, that the invalidity of a part of a statute would
not justify an injunction against the entire Act, and second,
that in any event the eight sections in question were valid.
In his explanation of the first branch of the Court's holding, Mr. Justice Black pointed out that there are few, if any,
statutes that are totally unconstitutional in every part.'
Since Watson involved a new statute which had not been construed by any state court, and since such construction might
have affected its constitutionality, Mr. Justice Black's comment emphasized the point that an untried state statute
should not be invalidated by a federal court before the state
court has an opportunity to construe it. This consideration is
not present in a case involving an attack on a state statute
that has been in use for more than a century Nothing in
Watson implies that a limited injunction against an invalid
portion of a statute of long standing would be improper.
When he wrote the Court's opinion in Younger v Harms,
401 U S. 37, Mr. Justice Black quoted the foregoing excerpt
from the Watson case as an example of a situation m which it
would be appropriate for a federal court to enjoin a pending
5

The Florida legislation involved in Watson v Buck regulated the business of persons holding music copyrights and declared certain combinations
of such persons illegal as in restraint of trade. A three-judge District
Court held that 8 sections of that statute conflicted with the federal
copyright laws and, without considering the validity of the remaining 13
sections, enjoined enforcement of all 21 sections.
6
"Passing upon the possible significance of the manifold provisions of a
broad statute in advance of efforts to apply the separate provisions is
analogous to rendering an advisory opinon upon a statute or a declaratory judgment upon a hypothetical case. It is of course conceivable
that a statute might be flagrantly and patently violative of express constitutional prohibitions in every clause, sentence and paragraph, and in
whatever manner and against whomever an effort might be made to apply
it." 313 U. S., at 402.

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

STvNs, J., dissenting

state criminal prosecution.7 He did not, however, imply that
his earlier language rigidly defined the boundaries of one
kind of exception from the equitable rationale underlying the
Younger decision itself.
Today the Court seems to be saying that the "patently and
flagrantly unconstitutional" exception to Younger-type abstention is unavailable whenever a statute has a legitimate
title, or a legitimate severability clause, or some other equally
innocuous provision. If this is a fair reading of the Court's
opinion, the Court has given Mr. Justice Black's illustrative
language definitional significance. In effect, this treatment
preserves an illusion of flexibility in the application of a
Younger-type abstention, but it actually eliminates one of the
exceptions from the doctrine. For the typical constitutional
attack on a statute focuses on one, or a few, objectionable features. Although, as Mr. Justice Black indicated in Watson, it
is conceivable that there are some totally unconstitutional statutes, the possibility is quite remote. More importantly, the
Court has never explained why all sections of any statute must
be considered invalid in order to justify an injunction against
a portion that is itself flagrantly unconstitutional. Even
if this Court finds the constitutional issue less clear than did
the District Court, I do not understand what governmental
7

"There may, of course, be extraordinary circumstances in which the
necessary irreparable injury can be shown even in the absence of the usual
prerequisites of bad faith and harassment. For example, as long ago as
the Buck case, supra, we indicated:
"'It is of course conceivable that a statute might be flagrantly and patently
violative of express constitutional prohibitions in every clause, sentence
and paragraph, and m whatever manner and against whomever an effort
might be made to apply it.' 313 U. S., at 402.
"Other unusual situations calling for federal intervention nght also arise,
but there is no point in our attempting now to specify what they might
be." 401 U. S., at 53-54.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

interest is served by refusing to address the merits at this
stage of the proceedings.
It
The Court explicitly does not decide "whether Younger
principles apply to all civil litigation." Ante, at 445 n. 8.
Its holding in this case therefore rests squarely on the fact
that the State, rather than some other litigant, is the creditor
that invoked the Illinois attachment procedure. This rationale cannot be tenable unless principles of federalism require greater deference to the State's interest in collecting its
own claams than to its interest in providing a forum for
other creditors in the community It would seem rather
obvious to me that the amount of money involved in any
particular dispute is a matter of far less concern to the
sovereign than the integrity of its own procedures. Consequently, the fact that a State is a party to a pending
proceeding should make it less objectionable to have the
constitutional issue adjudicated in a federal forum than if
only private litigants were involved. I therefore find it hard
to accept the Court's contrary evaluation as a principled application of the majestic language in M/r. Justice Black's
Younger opinion.
III
The State has a valid interest in collecting taxes or other
obligations. In recognition of that need and in a desire to
minimize federal interference with state matters, Congress has
provided that a federal court may not enjoin the collection
of state taxes if the taxpayer has a "plain, speedy and efficient
remedy" under state law 8 Congress has not, however, placed
any restriction on the power of a federal court to decide
whether the taxpayer's remedy is, in fact, plain, speedy, and
efficient.9 Quite the contrary, by qualifying the prohibition
828 U. S. C. § 1341.
9 Indeed, that kind of determination is routine business in a federal court.
See, e. g., Tully v Griffin, Inc., 429 U. S. 68.

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

against enjoining the collection of state taxes, Congress has
actually directed the federal courts to review the adequacy of
a taxpayer's remedies.
Moreover, the Court has repeatedly held that when a state
remedy is uncertain, the federal court must provide relief.
As Mr. Justice Holmes put it, "we ought not to leave the
plaintiffs to a speculation upon what the State Court might
say if an action at law were brought." Wallace v Hines, 253
U S. 66, 68.10
The doctrine in Younger developed from the same equitable principles that have been applied to interpret 28 U S. C.
§ 1341.11 In cases in which this Court has been confronted
0

See Hopkins v Southern Cal. Tel. Co., 275 U. S. 393, 400; Mountain
States Power Co. v Public Service Comm'n of Montana, 299 U. S. 167, 170
("A 'plain, speedy, and efficient remedy' cannot be predicated upon a
problematical outcome of future consideration"), Spector Motor Service,
Inc. v McLaughlin, 323 U. S. 101, 106. As Mr. Justice Douglas wrote:
"[T]here is such uncertainty concerning the [state] remedy as to make it
whether the State affords full protection to the federal
speculative
rights!' Hillsborough v Cromwell, 326 U. S. 620, 625 (emphasis added),
cited with approval just this Term in Tully v Griffin, Inc., supra, at 76.
In Hillsborough, this Court decided in the first instance that the state
remedies were uncertain to the extent of being inadequate. Finally, in
Shafer v Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 48, this Court held that even though state
procedures might be adequate to remedy the federal question as to the
validity of the tax, there were no procedures to remedy the federal wrong
in connection with the tax-collection procedures. "Hence, on this ground
at least, resort was properly had to equity for relief; and since a court of
equity does not 'do justice by halves,' and will prevent, if possible, a
multiplicity of suits, the jurisdiction extends to the disposition of all
questions raised by the bill." Ibid.
11 The equitable principles relied upon in Younger are of ancient vintage.
In the first Judiciary Act of 1789 Congress directed that equity be
withheld if a "plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at
law" In Scott v Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 110, this Court noted that
Congress' prohibition was
"declaratory of the rule obtaining and controlling in equity proceedings
from the earliest period in England, and always in this country And so
3

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

with that statutory restriction, it has not been reluctant to
decide in the first instance whether a state remedy is adequate.
Congress has provided no special protection from federal interference for a state agency suing to collect nontax obligations.
Equitable considerations (as well as considerations of comity
and federalism) do preclude unwarranted interference with
litigation brought by such an agency, but surely the agency
is entitled to no greater protection than the state tax collector. Nevertheless, the Court is now fashioning a nonstatutory
abstention doctrine which requires even greater deference to
the State as an ordinary litigant than Congress regarded as
appropriate for the State's more basic fiscal needs.
Iv
The Court's decision to remand this litigation to the District Court to decide whether the Illinois attachment proit has been often adjudged that whenever, respecting any right violated,
a court of law is competent to render a judgment affording a plain, adequate and complete remedy, the party aggrieved must seek his remedy in
such court, not only because the defendant has a constitutional right to
a trial by jury, but because of the prohibition of the act of Congress to
pursue his remedy in such cases lna court of equity"
One of the major cases relied upon by the Court, Great Lakes
Dredge & Dock Co. v Huffman, 319 U. S. 293, 299, held that although
Congress in § 1341 had not specifically prohibited declaratory judgments
concerning the validity of state statutes, nonetheless, equitable principles
required the same result.
"[W]e find it unnecessary to inquire whether the words of the statute
may be so construed as to prohibit a declaration by federal courts concernmg the invalidity of a state tax. For we are of the opimon that
those considerations which have led federal courts of equity to refuse to
enjoin the collection of state taxes, save in exceptional cases, require a like
restraint in the use of the declaratory judgment procedure." 319 U. S.,
at 299.
This pronouncement has been read as prohibiting declaratory judgments to
the same extent as injunctive suits under § 1341. Illinois Central R. Co.
v. Howlett, 525 F 2d 178 (CA7 1975) (Sprecher, J.).

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

STEVENS, J., dissenting

cedure provides a debtor with an appropriate forum in which
to challenge the constitutionality of the Illinois attachment
procedure is ironic. For that procedure includes among its
undesirable features a set of rules which effectively foreclose
any challenge to its constitutionality in the Illinois courts.
Although it is true that § 27 of the Illinois Attachment Act,
Ill. Rev Stat., c. 11, § 27 (1973), allows the defendant to file a
motion to quash the attachment, the purpose of such a motion
is to test the sufficiency and truth of the facts alleged in the
affidavit or the adequacy of the attachment bond. Section 28
of the Act precludes consideration of any other issues." Even
if-contrary to a fair reading-the statute might be construed
to allow consideration of a constitutional challenge on a motion
to quash, a trial judge may summarily reject such a challenge
without fear of reversal, for an order denying such a motion
is interlocutory and nonappealable. 13 The ruling on the
validity of an attachment does not become final until the
underlying tort or contract claim is resolved. At that time
the attachment issue will, of course, be moot because the
prevailing party will then be entitled to the property regardless of the validity of the attachment.
Because it is so clear that the proceeding pending i the
state court did not afford the appellees in this case an adeRev Stat., c. 11, § 28 (1973), provides that "[n]o writ
22 Section 28, Ill.
of attachment shall be quashed, nor the property taken thereon reshall cause a legal and sufficient affidavit
if the plaintiff
stored,
and in that
or attachment bond to be filed, or the writ to be amended,
event the cause shall proceed as if such proceedings had originally been
sufficient." Thus, under § 28 the only valid question raised in a proceeding
concerning the attachment is whether the facts pleaded in the affidavit or
writ were true. And, of course, § 28 allows amendment of any improperly
pleaded writ or affidavit.
3
Smith v. Hodge, 13 Ill. 2d 197, 148 N. E. 2d 793 (1958), Brignall v.
App. 250, 16 N. E. 2d 150 (1938), Rabits v Live Oak,
Merkle, 296 Ill.
App. 589 (1927), Amencan Mortgage Corp.
Perry & Gulf R. Co., 245 Ill.
v. First National Mortgage Corp., 345 F 2d 527, 528 (CA7 1965).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

quate remedy for the violation of their federal constitutional

rights, 4 the Court's disposition points up the larger problem
confronting litigants who seek to challenge any state pro14 In the present case, the appellees appeared on the return date of the
writ of attachment, November 18, 1974 (10 days after their property had
been attached), and "were informed that the matter would be continued
until December 19, 1974," ante, at 437, 31 days later. As the opinion
below points out, the person who sues out the writ of attachment has
absolute discretion under § 6 of the Act, Ill. Rev Stat., c. 11, § 6 (1973), to
set the return date of the writ of attachment anywhere from 10 to 60 days
after the property has been attached. 405 F Supp., at 762. The return
date appears to be the first chance an attachment can be challenged, and as
this case points up, the proceedings on the return date can be summarily
continued for at least a month if not longer. Thus, property may well be
attached for three months or longer before even a § 27 motion will be
entertained.
does not give defendAs the court below also noted, "[s]ection 27
ant an absolute right to a hearing on the attachment issue immediately
after seizure." 405 F Supp., at 762. Indeed, the Attachment Act contains no provision for a prompt hearing on the validity of the attachment.
This should be compared with § 29 of the Act, Ill. Rev Stat., c. 11, § 29
direct a jury to be
(1973), which requires "the court [to] immediately
impaneled to inquire into the right of the property" in cases in which a
person other than the defendant claims an interest m the property being
attached. This deference to the needs for prompt action m response to
an interpleading claimant signifies the general lax attitude the Act takes
with regard to the rights of persons whose property has been attached.
The Court states that the appellees (who appeared on the return date
"and were informed that the matter would be continued" for a month)
"did not seek a prompt hearing, nor did they attempt to quash the attachment on the ground that the procedures surrounding its issuance rendered
it and the Act unconstitutional." Ante, at 437-438. The State suggests
that § 26 of the Act, Ill. Rev Stat., c. 11, § 26 (1973), allows appellees to
make an appropriate motion that the attachment statute is unconstitutional. However, § 26 provides that "provisions of the Civil Practice
Act
shall apply to all proceedings hereunder, except as otherunse
provmded in this Act." (Emphasis added.) As we note in our discussion
of § 28, supra, the statute does not authorize raising unconstitutionality as
a defense to an attachment.
The State also cites Ill. Sup. Ct. Rule 184, which provides that a party

TRAINOR v. HERNANDEZ
434

STEVSNS, J., dissenting

cedure as violative of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
As I suggested in my separate opinion in Jutdice v Vail,
430 U S. 327, 339, a principled application of the rationale of
Younger v Harms, 401 U S. 37, forecloses abstention in cases

in which the federal challenge is to the constitutionality of
the state procedure itself. 5

Since this federal plaintiff raised

may "call up a motion for disposition before or after" the time for its
normal disposition. This, however, does not provide a prompt hearing; it
only allows appellees to ask for one. The request may or may not be
granted in the discretion of the court. Neither § 26 nor Rule 184 assures
appellees a prompt hearing, and neither overrides the fact that § 28
appears to foreclose any defense of unconstitutionality in attacking an
attachment.
1.5There should be no abstention unless the state procedure affords
a plain, speedy, and efficient remedy for the federal wrong; indeed, the
opinion m Younger m basing its decision on basic equity principles acknowledges this as the fundamental requirement in application of the abstention doctrine. The majority opimon m this case states the question
presented as whether abstention is proper when a "State has already
instituted proceedings
and the [appellees] could tender and have
[their] federal claims decided m the state court." Ante, at 440. It then
proceeds to quote from numerous cases requiring an adequate state
remedy for application of the abstention doctrine. Younger v Harris,
401 U. S. 37, 45, quoting Fenner v Boykin, 271 U. S. 240, 243-244
(requiring the federal plaintiff to "first set up and rely on his defense
in the state courts, even though this involves a challenge of the
validity of some statute, unless it plainly appears that this course would
not afford adequate protection"), Gibson v Berryhill, 411 U. S. 564,
577 (dismissal of the federal suit as "naturally presuppos[ing] the
opportunity to raise and have timely decided by a competent state
tribunal the federal issues involved"), Kugler v Helfant, 421 U. S. 117,
124 (abstention founded "on the premise that ordinarily a pending state
prosecution provides the accused a fair and sufficient opportunity for
vindication of federal constitutional rights"). Ante, at 441. In my judgment, when a state procedure is challenged, an adequate forum must be
one that is sufficiently independent of the alleged unconstitutional procedure to judge it impartially and to provide prompt relief if the procedure
is found wanting. No Illinois procedure has been pointed to as providing
such relief, and where the remedy is "uncertain," federal jurisdiction exists.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STENs, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

a serious question about the fairness of the Illinois attachment
procedure, and since that procedure does not afford a plain,
speedy, and efficient remedy for his federal claim, it necessarily follows that Younger abstention is inappropriate.
Thirty years ago Mr. Justice Rutledge characterized a series
of Illinois procedures which effectively foreclosed consideration of the merits of federal constitutional clains as a "procedural labyrinth
made up entirely of blind alleys."
Marno v Ragen, 332 U S. 561, 567 Today Illinois litigants
may appropriately apply that characterization to the Court's
increasingly Daedalian doctrine of abstention.
I respectfully dissent.

