UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURT OF APPEALS

No. 74-1106.

Argued December 6, 1976-Decided May 23, 1977

Respondent, who was suspected, with others, of possible implication mna
theft, was subpoenaed to appear as a witness before the District of
Columbia grand jury investigating the crime. The prosecutor did not
advise respondent before his appearance that he might be indicted for
the theft, but respondent was given a series of warnings after being
sworn, including the warning that he had a right to remain silent.
Respondent nevertheless testified, and subsequently was indicted for the
theft. The trial court granted respondent's motion to suppress his grand
jury testimony and to quash the indictment on the ground that it was
based on evidence obtained in violation of his Fifth Amendment privilege
against compelled self-incrimination. The District of Columbia Court
of Appeals affirmed the suppression order, holding that "the most
significant failing of the prosecutor was in not advising [respondent]
that he was a potential defendant" and that "[a]nother shortcoming was
mnthe prosecutor's waiting until after administering the oath in the
cloister of the grand jury before undertaking to furnish what advice was
given." Held. Respondent's grand jury testimony may properly be used
against him mn a subsequent trial. The comprehensive warnings he
received, whether or not such warnings were constitutionally required,
dissipated any element of compulsion to self-incrimination that might
otherwise have been present. The fact that a subpoenaed grand jury
witness is a putative or potential defendant neither impairs nor enlarges
his constitutional rights, and hence it is unnecessary to give such a
defendant the warnings that the Court of Appeals held were required.
Pp. 186-190.
328 A. 2d 98, reversed and remanded.
BURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, m which STEWART,
POWELL, REHNQUIST, and STEVENS, JJ., joined.
BRENNAN, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL, J., joined,
post, p. 191.
WHITE, BLACKAIUN,

William F Sheehan III argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Bork,

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General Thornburgh, Deputy Solicitor
General Frey, and Sidney M Glazer
Frederick H. Wezsberg argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Robert M. Wemberg and Mervin
N Cherrn.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE BURGER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question presented in this case is whether testimony
given by a grand jury witness suspected of wrongdoing may be
used against him in a later prosecution for a substantive
criminal offense when the witness was not informed in advance
of his testimony that he was a potential defendant in danger of
indictment.'

(1)

The facts are not m dispute. Zimmerman and Woodard
were driving respondent's van truck when a Washington,
D C., policeman stopped them for a traffic offense. Seeing a
motorcycle in the rear of the van which he identified as
stolen, the officer arrested both men and impounded respondent's vehicle. When respondent came to reclaim the van, he
told police that Zimmerman and Woodard were friends who
were driving the van with his permission.
He explained the presence of the stolen motorcycle by saying that while driving the van himself he had stopped to assist
an unknown motorcyclist whose machine had broken down.
Respondent then allowed the motorcycle to be placed in his
van to take it for repairs. Soon after this the van stalled and
he walked to a nearby gasoline station to call Zimmerman
and Woodard for help, leaving the van with the unknown
'With United States v Mandulano, 425 U. S. 564 (1976), and United
States v Wong, ante, p. 174, we have settled that grand jury witnesses,
including those already targeted for indictment, may be convicted of perjury on the basis of their false grand jury testimony even though they were
not first advised of their Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled selfincrimination.

UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON
181

Opinion of the Court

motorcyclist. After reaching Zimmerman by phone, respondent waited at the gasoline station for his friends, then returned
to the spot he had left the van when they failed to appear;
by that time the van had disappeared. Respondent said he
was not alarmed, assuming his friends had repaired the van
and driven it away Shortly thereafter, Zimmerman and
Woodard-were arrested with the stolen motorcycle in the van.
Not surprisingly, the officer to whom respondent related
this tale was more than a little skeptical, he told respondent
he did not believe his story, and advised him not to repeat it
in court, "because you're liable to be in trouble if you [do so]."
The officer also declined to release the van. Respondent then
repeated this story to an Assistant United States AttSrney
working on the case. The prosecutor, too, was dubious of
the account, nevertheless, he released the van to respondent.
At the same time, he served respondent with a subpoena
to appear before the grand jury investigating the motorcycle
theft.
When respondent appeared before the grand jury, the Assistant United States Attorney in charge had not yet decided
whether to seek an indictment against him. The prosecutor
was aware of respondent's explanation, and was also aware of
the possibility that respondent could be indicted by the grand
jury for the theft if his story was not believed.
The prosecutor did not advise respondent before his appearance that he might be indicted on a criminal charge in
connection with the stolen motorcycle. But respondent, after
reciting the usual oath to tell the truth, was given a series of
other warnings, as follows:
Q
"You have a right to remain silent. You are not
required to say anything to us 1in this Grand Jury at any
2
time or to answer any question.
2

This was an obvious overstatement of respondent's constitutional
rights; the very purpose of the grand jury is to elicit testimony, and it can

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

"Anything you say can be used against you in Court.
"You have the right to talk to a lawyer for advice before we question you and have him outside the Grand
Jury during any questioning.
"If you cannot afford a lawyer and want one a lawyer
will be provided for you.
"If you want to answer questions now without a lawyer
present you will still have the right to stop answering
at any time.
"You also have the right to stop answering at any time
until you talk to a lawyer.
"Now, do you understand those rights, sir?
"A Yes, I do.
"Q And do you want to answer questions of the Grand
Jury in reference to a stolen motorcycle that was found
in your truck?
"A Yes, sir.
"Q And do you want a lawyer here or outside the
Grand Jury room while you answer those questions?
"A No, I don't think so."
In response to questions, respondent again related his version
of how the stolen motorcycle came to be in the rear of his van.
Subsequently, the grand jury indicted respondent, Zimmerman, and Woodard for grand larceny and receiving stolen
property
Respondent moved to suppress his testimony and quash the
indictment, arguing that it was based on evidence obtained in
violation of his Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled
self-incrimination. The Superior Court for the District of
compel answers, by use of contempt powers, to all except self-mcrinnmating
questions.
After the oral warnings, respondent was also handed a card containing
all the warnings prescribed by Miranda v Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966),
and a waiver form acknowledging that the witness waived the privilege
against compelled self-incrimination. Respondent signed the waiver.

UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON
181

Opinion of the Court

Columbia suppressed the testimony and dismissed the indictment, holding that before the Government could use respondents grand jury testimony at trial, it had first to demonstrate
that respondent had knowingly waived his privilege against
compelled self-incrimination. Notwithstanding the comprehensive warnings described earlier, the court found no effective
waiver had been made, holding that respondent was not properly advised of his Fifth Amendment rights. The court
thought the Constitution required, at a mimmum, that
"inquiry be made of the suspect to determine what his
educational background is, and what his formal education
is and whether or not he understands that this is a constitutional privilege and whether he fully understands the
consequences of what might result in the event that he
does waive his constitutional right and in the event that
he does make incriminatory statements
The court also held that respondent should have been told
that his testimony could lead to his indictment by the grand
jury before which he was testifying, and could then be used
to convict him in a criminal prosecution.
The District of Columbia Court of Appeals affirmed the
suppression order. 328 A. 2d 98 (1974) 3 That court also
took the position that "the most significant failing of the
prosecutor was in not advising [respondent] that he was a
potential defendant. Another shortcoming was in the prosecutor's waiting until after administering the oath in the cloister
3The Court of Appeals declined to disrmss the indictment, however,
relying on a line of cases in this Court holding that an indictment returned
by a properly constituted grand jury is not subject to challenge on the
ground that it was based on unconstitutionally obtained evidence. See
United States v Calandra,414 U. S. 338 (1974), United States v Blue,
384 U. S. 251 (1966), Lawn v United States, 355 U. S. 339 (1958).
Respondent's cross-petition seeking review of this portion of the Court of
Appeals' ruling was denied, 426 U. S.905 (1976), and the validity of the
indictment is not an issue in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

of the grand jury before undertaking to furnish what advice
was given." Id., at 100.1

(2)
The implicit premse of the District of Columbia Court of
Appeals' holding is that a grand jury inquiry, like police
custodial interrogation, is an "interrogation of persons suspected or accused of crime [that] contains inherently compelling pressures which work to undermine the individual's
will to resist and to compel hinnto speak where he would not
otherwise do so freely" Miranda v Arzona, 384 U S. 436,
But this Court has not decided that the grand
467 (1966)
jury setting presents coercive elements which compel witnesses
to incrinmnate themselves. Nor have we decided whether any
Fifth Amendment warnings whatever are constitutionally
required for grand jury witnesses, moreover, we have no
occasion to decide these matters today, for even assuming that
the grand jury setting exerts some pressures on witnesses
generally or on those who may later be indicted, the comprehensive warnings respondent received in this case plainly
satisfied any possible claim to warnings. Accordingly, respondent's grand jury testimony may properly be used against
him in a subsequent trial for theft of the motorcycle.
Although it is well settled that the Fifth Amendment
privilege extends to grand jury proceedings, Counselman
v Hitchcock, 142 U S. 547 (1892), it is also axiomatic
that the Amendment does not automatically preclude selfincrimination, whether spontaneous or in response to questions put by government officials. "It does not preclude
4Though both courts below found no effective waiver of Fifth Amendment rights, neither court found, and no one suggests here, that respondent's signing of the waiver-of-rights form was involuntary or was made
without full appreciation of all the rights of which he was advised. The
Government does not challenge, and we do not disturb, the finding that at
the time of his grand jury appearance respondent was a potential defendant whose indictment was considered likely by the prosecution.

UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON
181

- Opinion of the Court

a witness from testifying voluntarily in matters which
may incriminate him," United States v Monza, 317 U S.
424, 427 (1943), for "those competent and freewilled to
do so may give evidence against the whole world, themselves
included." United States v Kimball, 117 F 156, 163 (CC
SDNY 1902), accord, Miranda, supra, at 478, Michigan v
Tucker, 417 U S. 433 (1974), Hoffa v United States, 385
U S. 293 (1966)
Indeed, far from being prohibited by the
Constitution, admissions of guilt by wrongdoers, if not coerced, are inherently desirable. In addition to guaranteeing
the right to remain silent unless immunity is granted, the
Fifth Amendment proscribes only self-incrimination obtained
by a "genuine compulsion of testimony"
Michigan v
Tucker, supra, at 440. Absent some officially coerced selfaccusation, the Fifth Amendment privilege is not violated
by even the most damning admissions. Accordingly, unless
the record reveals some compulsion, respondent's incriminating testimony cannot conflict with any constitutional guarantees of the privilege.'
The Constitution does not prohibit every element which
influences a criminal suspect to make incriminating admissions.
See Garnerv Unzted States, 424 U S.648 (1976), Beckwith v
United States, 425 U S. 341 (1976), Schneckloth v Bustamonte, 412 U S. 218, 223-227 (1973)
Of course, for many
witnesses the grand jury room engenders an atmosphere conducive to truthtelling, for it is likely that upon being brought
5
In Miranda, the Court saw as inherently coercive any police custodial
interregatirn conducted by isolating the suspect with police officers; therefore, the Court established a per se rule that all incriminating statements
made during such interrogation are barred as "compelled." All Miranda's
safeguards, which are designed to avoid the coercive atmosphere, rest on the
overbearing compulsion which the Court thought was caused by isolation
of a suspect in police custody See Oregon v. Mathiason, 429 U. S. 492
(1977), Beckwith v. United States, 425 U. S.341 (1976), Garnerv United
States, 424 U. S.648, 653-654 (1976), Michigan v Tucker, 417 U. S., at
444.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

before such a body of neighbors and fellow citizens, and having
been placed under a solemn oath to tell the truth, many witnesses will feel obliged to do just that. But it does not offend
the guarantees of the Fifth Amendment if in that setting a
witness is more likely to tell the truth than in less solemn surroundings. The constitutional guarantee is only that the witness be not compelled to give self-incriminating testimony
The test is whether, considering the totality of the circumstances, the free will of the witness was overborne. Rogers v
Richmond, 365 U S. 534, 544 (1961)
(3)
After being sworn, respondent was explicitly advised that
he had a right to remain silent and that any statements he
did make could be used to convict him of crime. It is inconceivable that such a warning would fail to alert him to his
right to refuse to answer any question which might incriminate him. This advice also eliminated any possible compulsion to self-incrimination which might otherwise exist. To
suggest otherwise is to ignore the record and reality Indeed,
it seems self-evident that one who is told he is free to refuse to
answer questions is in a curious posture to later complain that
his answers were compelled. Moreover, any possible coercion
or unfairness resulting from a witness' misimpression that he
must answer truthfully even questions with incriminatory
aspects is completely removed by the warnings given here.
Even in the presumed psychologically coercive atmosphere of
police custodial interrogation, Miranda does not require that
any additional warnings be given simply because the suspect
is a potential defendant, indeed, such suspects are potential
defendants more often than not. United States v Binder,
453 F 2d 805, 810 (CA2 1971), cert. denied, 407 U S. 920
(1972)
Respondent points out that unlike one subject to custodial
interrogation, whose arrest should inform him only too clearly
that he is a potential criminal defendant, a grand jury witness

UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON

181

Opinion of the Court

may well be unaware that he is targeted for possible prosecution. While this may be so in some situations, it is an overdrawn generalization. In any case, events here clearly put
respondent on notice that he was a suspect in the motorcycle
theft. He knew that the grand jury was investigating that
theft and that his involvement was known to the authorities.
Respondent was made abundantly aware that his exculpatory
version of events had been disbelieved by the police officer,
and that his friends, whose innocence his own story supported,
were to be prosecuted for the theft. The interview with the
prosecutor put him on additional notice that his implausible
story was not accepted as true. The warnings he received in
the grand jury room served further to alert him to his own
potential criminal liability In sum, by the time he testified respondent knew better than anyone else of his potential
defendant status.
However, all of this is largely irrelevant, since we do not
understand what constitutional disadvantage a failure to give
potential defendant warnings could possibly inflict on a grand
jury witness, whether or not he has received other warnings.
It is firmly settled that the prospect of being indicted does not
entitle a witness to commit perjury, and witnesses who are not
grand jury targets are protected from compulsory self-incrimination to the same extent as those who are. Because
target witness status neither enlarges nor diminishes the constitutional protection against compelled self-incrimination,
potential-defendant warnings add nothing of value to protection of Fifth Amendment rights.
Respondent suggests he must prevail under Garner v
United States, supra. There, the petitioner was charged with
As part of its case, the Government
a gambling conspiracy
introduced Garner's income tax returns, in one of which he
had identified his occupation as "professional gambler," and
in all of which he had reported substantial income from wagering. The Court recognized that Garner was indeed compelled by law to file a tax return, but held that this did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

constitute compelled self-incrimination. The Court noted
that Garner did not claim his Fifth Amendment privilege,
instead making the incriminating disclosure that he was
a professional gambler. Garner holds that the Self-Incrimination Clause is violated only when the Government compels disclosures which it knows will incriminate the declarant-that is, only when it intentionally places the individual
under "compulsions to incriminate, not merely compulsions
to make unprivileged disclosures." 424 U S., at 657
But the distinction between compulsion to incriminate and
compulsion to disclose what the Government is entitled to
know is of no help to respondent, in this case there was no
compulsion to do either.
In Beckwith v United States, decided shortly after Garner,
we reaffirmed the need for showing overbearing compulsion as
a prerequisite to a Fifth Amendment violation. There, the
Government agent interrogated the taxpayer for the explicit
purpose of securing information that would incriminate him.
There, as here, the interrogation was not conducted in an
inherently coercive setting; hence the claim of compelled selfincrimination was rejected.6

(4)
Since warnings were given, we are not called upon to decide
whether such warnings were constitutionally required. How6 Although the District of Columbia Court of Appeals rested its holding
solely on the Self-Incrumnation Clause of the Fifth Amendment, respondent urges the Fifth Amendment Due Process Clause. He contends it is
fundamentally unfair to elicit incriminating testimony from a potential
defendant without first informing him of his target status. This, it is
argued, would alert the witness more pointedly so as to enable him to
decide whether to invoke the privilege against compelled self-mncrmination.
This line of argument simply restates respondent's claims under the SelfIncrimination Clause and is rejected for the same reasons. Moreover,
there is no evidence of any governmental misconduct which undermined
the faarness of the proceedings.

UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON
181

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

ever, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals held that
whatever warnings are required are insufficient if given "in the
cloister of the grand jury" 328 A. 2d, at 100. That court
gave no reason for its view that warnings must be given
outside the presence of the jury, but respondent now advances
two justifications. First, it could be thought that warnings
given to respondent before the grand jury came too late,
because of the short tune to assm-_ilate their significance, and
because of the presence of the grand jurors. But respondent
does not contend that he did not understand the warnings
given here. In any event, it is purely speculative to attribute
any such effects to warnings given in the presence of the jury
immediately before taking the stand. If anything, the proximity of the warnings to respondent's testimony and the
solemnity of the grand jury setting seem likely to increase their
effectiveness.
Second, respondent argues that giving the oath in the
presence of the grand jury undermines assertion of the Fifth
Amendment privilege by placing the witness in fear that the
grand jury will infer guilt from invocation of the privilege.
But this argument entirely overlooks that the grand jury's
historic role is as an investigative body; it is not the final arbiter of guilt or innocence. Moreover, it is well settled that
invocation of the Fifth Amendment privilege in a grand jury
proceeding is not admissible in a criminal trial, where guilt or
innocence is actually at stake.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JusTIcE BRENNAN, with whom MR. J sTIcE MVARSHALL
joins, dissenting.
The general rule that a witness must affirmatively claim the
privilege against compulsory self-incrimination must m my

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U.S.

view admit of an exception in the case of'a grand jury witness
whom the prosecutor interrogates with the express purpose of
getting evidence upon which to base a criminal charge against
him. In such circumstances, even warnings, before interrogation, of his right to silence do not suffice. The privilege is
emptied of substance unless the witness is further advised by
the prosecutor that he is a potential defendant. Only if the
witness then nevertheless intentionally and intelligently waives
his right to be free from compulsory self-incrimination and
submits to further interrogation should use of his grand jury
testimony against him be sanctioned. As I stated in United
States v Mandujano, 425 U S. 564, 598-600 (1976) (concurring in judgment)
"I would hold that, in the absence of an intentional and
intelligent waiver by the individual of his known right to
be free from compulsory self-incrimination, the Government may not call before a grand jury one whom it has
probable cause-as measured by an objective standardto suspect of committing a crime, and by use of judicial
compulsion compel him to testify with regard to that
crime. In the absence of such a waiver, the Fifth
Amendment requires that any testimony obtained in this
fashion be unavailable to the Government for use at trial.
Such a waiver could readily be demonstrated by proof
that the individual was warned prior to questioning that
he is currently subject to possible criminal prosecution
"
for the commission of a stated crime
In this case, although respondent Washington was advised of
his rights to silence and to talk to a lawyer before he appeared
before the grand jury, he was "only told that he was needed
as a witness in prosecuting the two who were occupants of the
van at the time of its impoundment." 328 A. 2d 98, 100
He was never told that he was in danger of being
(1974)
indicted himself, even though "at the time of his grand jury
appearance respondent was a potential defendant whose

UNITED STATES v. WASHINGTON
181

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

indictment was considered likely by the prosecution." Ante,
at 186 n. 4.
The ancient privilege of a witness against being compelled
to incriminate himself is precious to free men as a shield
against high-handed and arrogant inquisitorial practices. It
has survived centuries of controversies, periodically kindled by
popular impatience that its protection sometimes allows the
guilty to escape punishment. But it has endured as a wise
and necessary protection of the individual against arbitrary
power, and the price of occasional failures of justice is paid
in the larger interest of general personal security
I would hold that a failure to warn the witness that he is a
potential defendant is fatal to an indictment of him when it is
made unmistakably to appear, as here, that the grand jury
inquiry became an investigation directed against the witness
and was pursued with the purpose of compelling him to give
self-incriminating testimony upon which to indict him. I
would further hold that without such prior warning and the
witness' subsequent voluntary waiver of his privilege, there is
such gross encroachment upon the witness' privilege as to
render worthless the values protected by it unless the selfincriminating testimony is unavailable to the Government for
use at any trial brought pursuant to even a valid indictment.
It should be remarked that, of course, today's decision
applies only to application of the privilege against selfincrimination secured by the Fifth Amendment to the United
States Constitution.* The holding does not affect the authority of state courts to construe counterpart provisions of state
constitutions-even identically phrased provisions-"to give
the individual greater protection than is provided" by the
*Of course, it is still open to the District of Columbia Court of Appeals,
under its supervisory powers, on remand to order and enforce compliance
with what it considers proper procedures before the grand jury, Ristaino v
Ross, 424 U. S. 589, 597 n. 9 (1976), United States v Jacobs, 547 F 2d 772
(CA2 1976), cert. pending, No. 76-1193.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

federal provision. State v Johnson, 68 N. J 349, 353, 346 A.
2d 66, 67-68 (1975)
See generally Brennan, State Constitutions and the Protection of Individual Rights, 90 Harv L.
Rev 489 (1977)
A number of state courts have recognized that a defendant
or potential defendant called before a grand jury is privileged
against the State's using his self-incriminating testimony to
procure an indictment or using it to introduce against him at
trial, even in the absence of an affirmative claim of his privilege
against self-incrimination. See, e. g., People v Lamo, 10
N. Y 2d 161, 176 N. E. 2d 571 (1961), State v Fary, 19 N. J
431, 437-438, 117 A. 2d 499, 503 (1955), Taylor v Commonwealth, 274 Ky 51, 118 S. W 2d 140 (1938), State v Corteau,
198 Minn. 433, 270 N. W 144 (1936), Culbreath v State,
22 Ala. App. 143, 113 So. 465 (1927)
See additional cases in
Annot., Privilege Against Self-incrimination as to Testimony
before Grand Jury, 38 A. L. R. 2d 225, 290-294 (1954)
One
court has specifically held that interrogating a potential
defendant "under [the] guise of examining him as to the guilt
of someone else" is a violation of the defendant's privilege
against self-incrimination. People v Cochran, 313 Ill. 508,
526, 145 N. E. 207, 214 (1924)
See also Newman, The Suspect and the Grand Jury- A Need for Constitutional Protection, 11 U Rich. L. Rev 1 (1976), Comment, The Grand Jury
Witness' Privilege Against Self-Incrimination, 62 Nw U L.
Rev 207, 223 (1967), Meshbesher, Right to Counsel before
Grand Jury, 41 F R. D 189, 191 (1966)
The rationale of
these decisions-which I would find applicable to the case now
before us-is that where the grand jury investigation is in fact
a proceeding against the witness, or even if begun as a general
investigation it becomes a proceeding against the witness, the
encroachment upon the witness' privilege requires that a court
deny to the prosescution the use of the witness' self-incriminating testimony

