SPLAWN v. CALIFORNIA
Syllabus

SPLAWN v. CALIFORNIA
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA, FIRST
APPELLATE DISTRICT

No. 76-143. Argued March 23, 1977-Decided June 6, 1977
Petitioner, who was convicted of selling obscene film in violation of
California law, contends that portions of the instructions to the jury
violated his First and Fourteenth Amendment rights, claiming that the
instructions (1) allowed the jury to convict him even though it might
otherwise have found that the film was protected under the standards
of Miller v (aiifornza, 413 U. S. 15, because the instructions permitted
the jury to consider motives of commercial exploitation on the part of
persons m the chain of distribution other than petitioner, and (2) violated the prohibition against ex post facto laws, and the fair-warning
requirement of Bome v Golumbza, 378 U. S. 347 The challenged
instruction permitted the jury, in determining whether the film was
utterly without redeeming social importance, to consider the circumstances of the sale and distribution, particularly whether such circumstances indicated that the film was being commercially exploited for
the sake of its prurient appeal. Held.
1. The instruction violated no First Amendment rights of the petitioner. The circumstances of distribution of the material are relevant
from the standpoint of whether public confrontation with potentially
offensive aspects of the material is being forced and are "equally
relevant to determining whether social importance claimed for material
in the courtroom was, in the circumstances, pretense or reality-whether
it was the basis upon which it was traded m the marketplace or a spurious claim for litigation purposes." Ginzburg v. United States, 383 U. S.
463, 470. See also Hamling v. United States, 418 U. S. 87, 130. Pp.
598-599.
2. Though the section of the California Penal Code that authorized
the challenged instruction was enacted after part of the conduct for
winch petitioner was convicted but prior to his trial, that section does
not create any new substantive offense but merely declares what type
of evidence may be received and considered by the jury in deciding
whether the allegedly obscene material was "utterly without redeeming
social importance." People v. Noroif, 67 Cal. 2d 791, 433 P 2d 479,
relied on by petitioner in support of his ex post facto claim, did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

disapprove of any use of evidence of pandering for its probative value
on the obscenity issue but merely rejected the concept of pandering of
nonobscene material as a separate crime under state law Pp. 599-601.
3. There was no change in the interpretation of the elements of the
substantive offense prohibited by Califoria law and Bouze, supra, is
therefore nmapplicable. P 601.
Affirmed.
REHNQUIST,

J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which

BuIER,

C. J., and WHiTE, BLAeKmuN, and PowEnL, JJ., joined. BRmNNAN, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, in which STEWART and MARSHALL, JJ., joined,
post, p. 601. STEWART, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in winch BRENNAN
and MARSHAL, JJ., joined, post, p. 602. STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting
opinion, in which BRENNAN, STEWART, and MARSHALL, JJ., joined, post,
p. 602.

Arthur Wells, Jr., argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
William D Stem, Deputy Attorney General of California,
argued the cause for respondent. With hin on the brief were
Evelle J Younger, Attorney General, Jack R. Winkler, Chief
Assistant Attorney General, Edward P O'Ben, Assistant
Attorney General, and Alwn J Knudson, Deputy Attorney
General.*
MR. JusTicE REHNQtUST delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner Splawn was convicted in 1971 of the sale of two
reels of obscene film, a misdemeanor violation of California
Penal Code § 311.2 (West 1970) After the conviction was
affirmed on appeal by the California First District Court of
Appeal and the State Supreme Court denied review, this Court
granted certiorari, vacated the judgment, and remanded for
consideration in light of our decision in Miller v California,
413 U S. 15 (1973), which had set forth the standards by
*Charles H. Keating, Jr., and James J

Clancy filed a brief for Citizens

for Decency Through Law, Inc., as amzcus curiae urging affirmance.

SPLAWN v. CALIFORNIA
595

Opmion of the Court

which the constitutionality of § 311.2 was to be determined.
After the State Supreme Court ruled that the statute satisfied
the requirements articulated in Miller,see Bloom v Munzapal
Court, 16 Cal. 3d 71, 545 P 2d 229 (1976), the Court of Appeal
again affirmed the conviction and the California Supreme
Court denied petitioner's motion for a hearing.
We again granted certiorari, 429 U S.997 (1976), to consider petitioner's assorted contentions that his conviction must
be reversed because portions of the instructions given to the
jury during his trial render his conviction violative of the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. He claims that the instruction
allowed the jury to convict him even though it might otherwise
have found the material in question to have been protected
under the Miller standards. He also contends that the same
portions of the instructions render his conviction invalid by
reason of the constitutional prohibition against ex post facto
laws and the requirement of fair warning in the construction of
a crimnal statute enunciated in Bouw v City of Columba,
We consider these contentions in light
378 U S. 347 (1964)
of the fact that petitioner has abandoned any claim that the
material for the selling of which he was convicted could not be
found to be obscene consistently with the First and Fourteenth
Amendments, and any claim that the California statute under
which he was convicted does not satisfy the requirements
articulated in Miller, supra.
As it was understood by the California Court of Appeal,
petitioner's challenge is leveled against the following portion
of the instructions:
"In determining the question of whether the allegedly
obscene matter is utterly without redeeming social importance, you may consider the circumstances of sale and
distribution, and particularly whether such circumstances
indicate that the matter was being commercially exploited
by the defendants for the sake of its prurient appeal.
Such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinon of the Court

431 U. S.

the matter and can justify the conclusion that the matter
is utterly without redeeming social importance. The
weight, if any, such evidence is entitled [to] is a matter
for you, the Jury, to determine.
"Circumstances of production and dissemination are
relevant to determining whether social importance
clauned for material was in the circumstances pretense
or reality If you conclude that the purveyor's sole
emphasis is in the sexually provocative aspect of the
publication, that fact can justify the conclusion that the
matter is utterly without redeeming social importance."
App. 38-39.
There is no doubt that as a matter of First Amendment
obscenity law, evidence of pandering to prurient interests in
the creation, promotion, or dissemination of material is relevant in determining whether the material is obscene. Hamling v United States, 418 U S. 87, 130 (1974), Ginzsburg v
United States, 383 U S. 463, 470 (1966)
This is so partly
because, as the Court has pointed out before, the fact that
the accused made such an appeal has a bearing on the ultimate
constitutional tests for obscenity"The deliberate representation of petitioners' publications as erotically arousing, .for example, stimulated the
reader to accept them as prurient, he looks for titillation,
not for saving intellectual content. Similarly, such representation would tend to force public confrontation with
the potentially offensive aspects of the work; the brazenness of such an appeal heightens the offensiveness of the
publications to those who are offended by such material.
And the circumstances of presentation and dissemination
of material are equally relevant to determining whether
social importance claimed for material in the courtroom
was, in the circumstances, pretense or reality-whether

SPLAWN v. CALIFORNIA
595

Opinion of the Court

it was the basis upon which it was traded in the marketplace or a spurious claim for litigation purposes." Ibzd.
Petitioner's interpretation of the challenged portions of the
instructions in his case is that they permitted the jury to consider motives of commercial exploitation on the part of persons in the chain of distribution of the material other than
himself. We upheld a snilar instruction in Hamling, supra,
however, wherein the jury was told that it could consider
"whether the materials had been pandered, by looking to
their '[m]anner of distribution, circumstances of production,
sale,
advertising
[, and] editorial intent
' This
instruction was given with respect to both the Illustrated
Report and the brochure which advertised it, both of which
were at issue in the trial." 418 U S., at 130.
Both Hamling and Ginzburg were prosecutions under federal obscenity statutes in federal courts, where our authority
to review jury instructions is a good deal broader than is our
power to upset state-court convictions by reason of instructions
given during the course of a trial. See Cupp v Naughten,
414 U S.141 (1973), Henderson v Kibbe, ante, p,145. We
can exercise the latter authority only if the instruction renders
the subsequent conviction violative of the United States Constitution. Questions of what categories of evidence may be
admissible and probative are otherwise for the courts of the
States to decide. We think Hamling, supra, and Ginzburg,
supra, rather clearly show that the instruction in question
abridges no rights of petitioner under the First Amendment as
made applicable to the States by the Fourteenth Amendment.
But petitioner contends that even though this be so, the
particular portions of the instructions of which he complains
were given pursuant to a statute enacted after the conduct
for which he was prosecuted. In his view, therefore, his conviction both violates the constitutional prohibition against ex
post facto laws, see Calder v Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 390 (1798),

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinon of the Court

431 U.S.

and failed to give hun constitutionally fair warning of the
prohibited conduct with which he was charged. Bouze v
Columbza, supra. We find these contentions to be without
merit, and we reject them.
The section of the California Penal Code defining the substantive misdemeanor with which petitioner was convicted,
§ 311.2, was in full force and effect at all tunes relevant to
petitioner's conduct. Califorma Penal Code § 311 (a) (West
1970), which authorized the above-quoted instructions, was
enacted after part of the conduct for which he was convicted
but prior to his trial. That section, however, does not create
any new substantive offense, but merely declares what type of
evidence may be received and considered in deciding whether
the matter m question was "utterly without redeeming social
importance."
Petitioner's ex post facto argument is based on his reading
of an earlier decision of the Supreme Court of California,
People v Noroff, 67 Cal. 2d 791, 433 P 2d 479 (1967) His
view is that under that case evidence such as was admitted
here would not have been admssible at his trial on the substantive offense but for the enactment of § 311 (a) (2) He
claims that such a change in procedural rules governing his
trial amounts to the enactment of an ex post facto law in violation of Art. I, § 9, cl. 3. The California Court of Appeal's
opunon in this case rejected that contention, and since it is a
contention which must in the last analysis turn on a proper
reading of the California decisions, such a determination by
the California Court of Appeal is entitled to great weight in
evaluating petitioner's constitutional contentions.
The Court of Appeal, commenting on Noroff, said with
respect to the California Supreme Court's decision m that
case.

"The court did not, however, disapprove of any use of
evidence of pandering for its probative value on the issue
of whether the material was obscene. It merely rejected

SPLAWN v. CALIFORNIA
595

BRENNAN,

601

J., dissenting

the concept of pandering of nonobscene material as a
separate crime under the existing laws of California."
App. to Pet. for Cert. ix.
We accept this conclusion of the California Court of Appeal,
and therefore find it unnecessary to determine whether if
§ 311 (a) (2) had permitted the introduction of evidence which
would have been previously excluded under California law,
petitioner would have had a tenable claim under the Ex Post
Facto Clause of the United States Constitution.
Bouse v City of Columba,supra,holds that the elements of
a statutory offense may not be so changed by judicial interpretation as to deny to accused defendants faar warning of the
crime prohibited. No such change in the interpretation of
the elements of the substantive offense prohibited by California law took place here, and petitioner may therefore
derive no benefit from Bouze.
We thus find no merit in petitioner's claims based on First
and Fourteenth Amendment protection of nonobscene matter,
the constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws, or
Bouze v City of Columbia. We have considered petitioner's
other claims, which appear to be variations on the same theme.
and likewise reject them. The judgment of the California
Court of Appeal is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTi E BpxAwN

, with whom MR. JusTICE STEWART

and MR. JusricE MARsALL join, dissenting.
The California courts, in response to our remand for reconsideration in light of Miller v California,413 U S.15 (1973),
reaffirmed petitioner's 1971 conviction of selling obscene films
in violation of California Penal Code § 311.2 (West 1970) I
would reverse the conviction. I adhere to my view expressed
in Miller that this statute is "unconstitutionally overbroad,
and therefore invalid on its face." 413 U S., at 47 (BRENNAN,
J., dissenting) See also Pendleton v Californta, 423 U S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

1068 (1976) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting from dismissal of appeal), &andqusst v Californsa, 423 U S. 900, 901 (1975)
(BRENNAN, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari), Tubalina
v Californza, 419 U S. 926 (1974) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting
from denial of certiorari), Kaplan v Californ a, 419 U S. 915
(1974) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari),
Blank v California,419 U S. 913 (1974) (BRENNAN, J., dissentmg from denial of certiorari).
MR.JUSTICE STEWART, with whom MR. JusTIcE BRENNAN
and MR.JusTcE MA~sz L, join, dissenting.
In my view the statute under which the petitioner was
convicted is constitutionally invalid on its face. Accordingly,
I have joined MR.JUSTIcE BRENNAN'S dissent.
But even if, as the Court believes, the statutbe itself is not
invalid, MR.JvsTIE STEVENS has surely demonstrated that
this petitioner was unconstitutionally convicted under it. On
that basis, I also join the dissenting opinion of MR.JusTIcE
STEVENS.

MR.JusTICE STEVENS, with whom MR.JusTE BRENNAN,
and MR. JUSTICE MARs]AIiL join,
dissenting.
Under the trial court's instructions, the jury may have
determined that the films sold by the petitioner had some
social significance and therefore were not in themselves obscene, but nevertheless found him guilty because they were
advertised and sold as "sexually provocative." 1 A conviction
pursuant to such an instruction should not be allowed to stand.
Truthful statements which are neither misleading nor offensive are protected by the First Amendment even though

MR. JUSTIcE STEWART,

"The relevant instruction is quoted by the Court, ante, at 597-598. I
would emphasize this sentence: "If you conclude that the purveyor's sole
emphasis is m the sexually provocative aspect of the publication, that fact
can justify the conclusion that the matter is utterly without redeeming
social importance."

SPLAWN v. CALIFORNIA
595

STEVEs, J., dissenting

made for a commercial purpose. Virginia Pharmacy Bd. v
Virgina Consumer Council, 425 U S. 748. Nothing said
on petitioner's behalf m connection with the marketing of
these films was false, misleading, or even arguably offensive
either to the person who bought them or to an average member
of the community The statements did make it clear that
the films were "sexually provocative," but that is hardly a
confession that they were obscene. And, if they were not
otherwise obscene, I cannot understand how these films lost
their protected status by being truthfully described.2
Even if the social importance of the films themselves is
dubious, there is a definite social interest in permitting them
to be accurately described. Only an accurate description can
enable a potential viewer to decide whether or not he wants
Ginzburg v United States, 383 U. S. 463, does not foreclose this analysis because it was decided before the Court extended First Amendment
coverage to commercial speech. Ginzburg cannot survive Virgznza Pharmacy. Ginzburg is based on the premise that advertising the character
of the material may "catch the salaciously disposed," 383 U. S., at 472,
and "stimulat[e] the reader to accept them as prurient," zd., at 470. But
MR. JUSTICE BIc~iux's opinion for the Court m Virgma Pharmacy
makes it clear:
"There is
an alternative to this highly paternalistic approach. That
alternative is to assume that this information is not in itself harmful, that
people will perceive their own best interests if only they are well enough
informed, and that the best means to that end is to open the channels of
communication rather than to close them.
It is precisely this kind
of choice, between the dangers of suppressing information, and the dangers
of its misuse if it is freely available, that the First Amendment makes for
us." 425 U. S., at 770. See also Linmark Associates, Inc. v. Willingboro,
ante, p. 85. Indeed, the case for First Amendment protection in advertising is stronger in this case than m Linmark or Virginia Pharmacy.
For to ban advertising of a book or film is to suppress the book or film
itself.
l. JUSTICE BnnNNAw does not join this footnote. Because he agrees
that the California Legislature's retroactive adoption of Ginzburg violates
the Ex Post Facto Clause, n. 4, infra, we need not in his view decide
the question whether Ginzburg survives Virgznia Pharmacy.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEvENS, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

to see them. Signs which identify the "adult' character of
a motion picture theater or of a bookstore convey the message
that sexually provocative entertainment is to be found within,
under the jury instructions which the Court today finds acceptable, these signs may deprive otherwise nonobscene matter
of its constitutional protection. Such signs, however, also
provide a warning to those who find erotic materials offensive
that they should shop elsewhere for other kinds of books,
magazines, or entertainment. Under any sensible regulatory
scheme, truthful description of subject matter that is pleasing
to some and offensive to others ought to be encouraged, not
punished.3
I would not send Mr. Splawn to jail for telling the truth
about his shabby business.4
3 It is ironic that m upholding obscenity laws this Court has stressed
the State's "legitimate interest m prohibiting dissemination or exhibition of
obscene material when the mode of dissemination carries with it a significant danger of offending the sensibilities of unwilling recipients or of
exposure to juveniles." Miller v California, 413 U. S. 15, 18-19 (footnote omitted)
4I must also record my dissent from the Court's disposition of petitioner's ex post facto argument.
In People v. Noroff, 58 Cal. Rptr. 172 (1967), the California Court of
Appeal reversed a trial judge who had determined the obscenity issue before
trial solely on the basis of the materials themselves. Relying on Ginzburg,
the Court of Appeal held that the prosecution should have been allowed
to present evidence of pandering; "although the ultimate constitutional
fact in issue remains a question of law to be decided by the court, it will be
when a trial court may properly undertake to determine
a rare case
this issue prior to trial by a mere examination of the material itself
unaided by expert testimony or evidence relating to the conduct of
defendant in connection with the material." 58 Cal. Rptr., at 177
The California Supreme Court reversed, and rejected the argument "that
the trial court should have permitted the prosecution to go to the jury
with evidence bearing upon the defendant's 'pandering' of the magazine
in question." 67 Cal. 2d 791, 793, 433 P 2d 479, 480 (1967). The court
also expressly rejected an argument that an earlier Califorma case had

SPLAWN v. CALIFORNIA
595

STEVNS,

605

J., dissenting

adopted "a 'pandering' concept similar to that elaborated in Ginzburg
in the context of the federal obscenity statute." Id., at 793 n. 4, 433

P 2d, at 480 n. 4.
After petitioner's offense, the California Legislature retroactively adopted
Ginzburg by statute. In my view, petitioner had the right to rely on the
Norof] decision, and to believe that he was entitled to truthfully advertise
otherwise nonobscene material. The Ex Post Facto Clause "reflect[s] the
strong belief of the Framers of the Constitution that men should not have
to act at their peril, fearing always that the State might change its mind
and alter the legal consequences of their past acts so as to take away their
lives, their liberty or their property" El Paso v Simmons, 379 U. S. 497,
522 (Black, J., dissenting).

