OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 471
Syllabus

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
ET AL. v. HODORY
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO

No. 75-1707.

Argued February 28, 1977-Decided May 31, 1977

Appellee, an employee of United States Steel Corporation (USS) at a
plant in Ohio, was furloughed when the plant was shut down because
of a reduction in fuel supply resulting from a nationwide strike of
workers at USS's coal mines. Appellee applied to appellant Ohio Bureau
of Employment Services for unemployment benefits but his claim was
disallowed under an Ohio statute that disqualified a worker from such
benefits if his unemployment was "due to a labor dispute other than
a lockout at any factory . . . owned or operated by the employer by
which he is or was last employed." While appellee's request for reconsideration was pending before the Board of Review, he filed a class
action in Federal District Court against appellants, the Bureau and its
director, for declaratory and injunctive relief, asserting that the Ohio
statute conflicted with certain provisions of the Social Security Act
(SSA) and that, as applied, it was irrational and had no valid public
purpose, in violation of the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Concluding that abstention was not
proper, the District Court held that the statute, as applied to appellee
and the. class members, violated those Clauses. Held:
1. Abstention is not required under either Younger v. Harris, 401
U. S. 37, or Railroad Comm'n v. Pullman Co., .312 U. S. 496. Pp.
477-481.
(a) Where Ohio has concluded to submit the constitutional issue
to this Court for immediate resolution, Younger principles of equity
and comity do not require this Court to refuse Ohio the immediate
adjudication it seeks. Pp. 477-480.
(b) Nor is Pullman abstention appropriate, where the possible
benefits of abstention have become too speculative to justify or require
avoidance of the constitutional question. Pp. 480-481.
2. The Ohio statute is neither in conflict with, nor is it pre-empted
by 42 U. S. C. § 503 (a) (the provision of the SSA that precludes the
Secretary of Labor from certifying payment of federal funds to state
unemployment compensation programs unless state law provides for
such methods of administration as the Secretary finds are "reasonably

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

calculated to insure full payment of unemployment compensation when
due"), or the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). Pp. 482-489.
3. The Ohio statute, which has a rational relation to a legitimate
state interest, is constitutional. Pp. 489-493.
(a) The statute does not involve any discernible fundamental interest or affect with particularity any protected class, and the test of
constitutionality, therefore, is whether the statute has a rational relation
to a legitimate state interest. P. 489.
(b) In considering the constitutionality of the statute, this Court
must view its consequences, not only for the recipient of the benefits,
but also for the contributors to the compensation fund, and, although
the system may provide only "rough justice" and a rough form of state
"neutrality" in labor disputes, the statute cannot be said to be irrational,
and the need for limitation of the liability of the compensation fund is
a legitimate state interest. Pp. 489-493.
408 F. Supp. 1016, reversed.
BLAcrmuI, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all Members
joined except REHNQUIsT, J., who took no part in the consideration or
decision of the case.

Richard A. Szilagyi, Assistant Attorney General of Ohio,
argued the cause for appellants. With him on the briefs was
William J. Brown, Attorney General.
T. Patrick Lordeon argued the cause for appellee. With
him on the brief were Robert M. Clyde, Jr., and Fred A.
Culver.*
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMuN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents a challenge to Ohio Rev. Code Ann.
§ 4141.29 (D) (1) (a) (1973). That statute, at the times rele*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by Gerard C. Smetana,
Jerry Kronenberg, Julian D. Schreiber, Lawrence B. Kraus, and Richard
O'Brecht for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States; and by
Frank C. Manak for the United States Steel Corp.
J.Albert Woll and Laurence Gold filed a brief for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations as amicus curiae
urging affirmance.
Walter J. Mackey filed a brief for the Republic Steel Corp. as amicus
curiae.

OBIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY
471

473

Opinion of the Court

vant to this suit, imposed a disqualification for unemployment
benefits when the claimant's unemployment was "due to a
labor dispute other than a lockout at any factory . . . owned
or operated by the employer by which he is or was last employed." The challenge is based on the Supremacy Clause
and on the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The case also raises questions
concerning abstention.
I
In November 1974 plaintiff-appellee, Leonard Paul Hodory,
was employed as a millwright apprentice with United States
Steel Corporation (USS) at its works in Youngstown, Ohio.
The United Mine Workers at that time were out on strike at
coal mines owned by USS and by Republic Steel Corporation
throughout the country. These company-owned mines supplied the fuel used in the operation of manufacturing facilities
of USS and Republic. As a result of the strike, the fuel
supply at the Youngstown plant was reduced. The plant
eventually was shut down, and appellee was furloughed on
November 12, 1974.
Hodory applied to appellant Ohio Bureau of Employment
Services for unemployment benefits. On January 3, 1975,
he was notified by the Bureau that his claim was disallowed
under Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 4141.29 (D) (1) (a) (1973).
That statute then provided that a worker may not receive
unemployment benefits if
"[h]is unemployment was due to a labor dispute other
than a lockout at any factory, establishment, or other
premises located in this or any other state and owned
or operated by the employer by which he is or was
last employed; and for so long as his unemployment
is due to such labor dispute."'
'In December 1975, § 4141.29 (D) (1) (a) (1973), was amended to read:
"(D) Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, no individual may
serve a waiting period or be paid benefits under the following conditions:

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

The written notification to appellee recited: "A labor dispute
started at coal mines owned and operated by U. S. Steel Corporation and claimant is unemployed because of this labor
dispute." App. i. Other notifications to Hodory for subsequent unemployment weeks contained similar recitals. Id.,
at ii and iii. Appellee promptly filed a request for reconsideration. In accord with the provisions of Ohio Rev. Code
Ann. § 4141.28 (G) (1973), his request, along with a number
of others, was referred on March 7 to the Board of Review.2
"(1) For any week with respect to which the administrator finds that:
"(a) His unemployment was due to a labor dispute other than a lockout
at any factory, establishment, or other premises located in this or any
other state and owned or operated by the employer by which he is or
was last employed; and for so long as his unemployment is due to such
labor dispute. No individual shall be disqualified under this provision
if: (i) his employment was with such employer at any factory, establishment, or premises located in this state, owned or operated by such
employer, other than the factory, establishment, or premises at which the
labor dispute exists, if it is shown that he is not financing, participating in,
or directly interested in such labor dispute, or, (ii) his employment was
with an employer not involved in the labor dispute but whose place of
business was located within the same premises as the employer engaged
in the dispute, unless his employer is a wholly owned subsidiary of the
employer engaged in the dispute, or unless he actively participates in or
voluntarily stops work because of such dispute. If it is established that
the claimant was laid off for an indefinite period and not recalled to work
prior to the dispute, or was separated by the employer prior to the dispute
for reasons other than the labor dispute, or that he obtained a bona fide
job with another employer while the dispute was still in progress, such
labor dispute shall not render the employee ineligible for benefits." Act
(amended substitute Senate bill 173) effective Dec. 2, 1975.
The amendment added subdivision (i). Thus it is possible that if appellee's
furlough had been effected after December 2, 1975, he would qualify for
benefits. We are advised, however, that the amendment is not retroactive.
Tr. of Oral Arg. 16.
2 Appellants state that these referrals are still before the Board of
Review but are stayed pending decision in this case. Brief for Appellants 4.

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 475
471

Opinion of the Court

Meanwhile, on January 27, Hodory filed a complaint in
the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Ohio against the Bureau and its director, Albert G. Giles.
The complaint was based on 42 U S. C. § 1983 and sought
declaratory and injunctive relief on behalf of appellee and
"all others similarly situated" who had been or in the future
would be denied benefits under § 4141.29 (D) (1) (a) Record,
Doe. 3, pp. I and 3. Hodory asserted, among other things,
that the Ohio statute was in. conflict with §§ 303 (a) (1) and
(3) of the Social Security Act of 1935, as amended, 42 U S. C.
§§ 503 (a)(1) and (3), and that the statute as applied was
irrational and had no valid public purpose, in violation of the
Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment.3 The gravamen of Hodory's complaint was the
assertion that the State may not deny benefits to those who,
like him, are unemployed under circumstances where the
unemployment is "not the fault of the employee." A threejudge court was requested.
Appellants in their answer asserted, among other things,
that Hodory had failed to exhaust his state administrative
remedies.
A three-judge court was convened. The case was tried on
the pleadings and mnterrogatories. In its opinion filed
March 5, 1976, 408 F Supp. 1016, that court concluded
that abstention was not required and would not be proper;
that the action was properly maintained as a class action, '
3At no point in this litigation has appellee claimed that § 4141.29 (D)
(1) (a) conflicts with or is pre-empted by any provision of the National
Labor Relations Act, 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq. We do not today consider
or decide the relationship between that Act and a statute such as
§ 4141.29 (D) (1) (a).
4The District Court determined, however, that the class as defined by
appellee in his complaint was overbroad. The court m its turn defined
the class as "Hodory and approximately 1250 members of the United
Steelworkers in Ohio, who became unemployed through no fault of their

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

and that the appellants had failed to demonstrate a rational
and legitimate interest in discriminating against "individuals
who were unemployed through no fault of their own and
neither participated in nor benefited from the labor dispute
involving another union and their employer." Id., at 1022.
The court then held that § 4141.29 (D) (1) (a), as applied to
Hodory and the class members, violated the Equal Protection
and Due Process Clauses.
The Bureau and its director took a direct appeal here pursuant to 28 U S. C. § 1253. In their jurisdictional statement
appellants argued only that (1) the "labor dispute" disqualification provision is not unconstitutional as applied to
appellee and the class; (2) the disqualification provision is
not in conflict with the Social Security Act, (3) a state system
of unemployment compensation may predicate disqualification upon any reasonable basis, and (4) USS and Republic,
as employers of the class members, were denied substantive
and procedural due process by the failure of the District Court
to order them joined as parties defendant.' Appellants made
no claim therein based on abstention. We noted probable
jurisdiction. 429 U S.814 (1976)
A claim that the District Court should have abstained from
deciding the case has been raised, however, in the brief amwus
curae filed by the AFL-CIO A like clain is at least sugown, [and] were denied unemployment benefits by defendants for a
specific period of time because of the labor dispute disqualification clause
in § 414129 (D) (1) (a), despite the fact that they may have been qualified
in all other respects to receive the benefits." 408 F Supp., at 1020.
Members of this class included Hodory's fellow workers at USS and
also employees of Republic Steel who were furloughed as a result of the
strike at Republic's coal mines.
5 In view of our disposition of the case, we have no reason to reach this
constitutional claim. USS and Republic each sought to intervene for
purposes of taking an appeal here, and as parties in this Court. These
motions were denied. See 429 U. S. 814 (1976).

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 477
471

Opinion of the Court

gested by Republic Steel. Brief as Amtcus Cumae 16-17
We feel those claims merit consideration.
We follow the proper course for federal courts by considermg first whether abstention is required, then whether
there is a statutory ground of resolution, and finally, only
if the challenge persists, whether the statute violates the
Constitution.
Abstention
There are, of course, two primary types of federal abstention. The first, usually referred to as Pullman abstention,
involves an inquiry focused on the possibility that the state
courts may interpret a challenged state statute so as to eliminate, or at least to alter materially, the constitutional question
presented. Railroad Comm'n v Pullman Co., 312 U S. 496
(1941)
See Bellotth v Baird, 428 U S. 132 (1976)
The
second type is Younger abstention, in which the court is primarily concerned, in an equitable setting, with considerations
of comity and federalism, both as they relate to the State's
interest in pursuing an ongoing state proceeding, and as they
involve the ability of the state courts to consider federal constitutional claims in that context. Younger v Harms, 401
See Huffman v Pursue,Ltd., 420 U S. 592
U S. 37 (1971)
(1975), Juidice v Vail, 430 U S. 327 (1977), Trarnorv Hernandez, ante, at 448 (concurring opinion).
A. In the present case, appellants, who in effect are the
State of Ohio, argued before the District Court that appellee
was free to pursue his pending administrative appeal and have
his constitutional claim adjudicated in the Court of Common
Pleas, and that principles of comity therefore required abstention." Although appellants m their written submission
6Brief in Opposition to Jurisdiction (of the District Court), Record,
Doc. 8. The defendants-appellants explicitly stated that an appeal would
lie to the Court of Common Pleas. Id., at 2. It appears that the Board

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

to that court cited Pullman, the argument was clearly to the
effect that Younger abstention should apply'
The District Court held that abstention was unwarranted.
It first asserted that in Gibson v Berryhill, 411 U S. 564
(1973), this Court "stated specifically that administrative
remedies need not be exhausted where the federal court plaintiff states a good cause of action under 42 U S. C. § 1983."
408 F Supp., at 1019.' The court then stated that § 4141.29
(D) (1) (a), "on its face, would appear to except the plaintiff
from unemployment benefits for the period he was laid off due
to coal miners' strike," and that "the Employment Bureau has
denied benefits to plaintiff
solely on the basis of the challenged labor dispute disqualification." 408 F Supp., at 1019.
The court held that exhaustion of administrative remedies
would be futile because the administrative appeal process
would not permit a challenge to the constitutionality of the
statute, and the Ohio courts had held the statute to be constitutional. Id., at 1019, and n. 1. Although the court observed
that Huffman v Pursue, Ltd., supra, broadened the Younger
doctrine "to include a prohibition against federal court interference with certain ongoing civil proceedings in the state
might give appellee's class claim special treatment so as to render the
Board's decision eligible for direct review by the Supreme Court of Ohio.
Ohio Rev Code Ann. § 4141.28 (N) (1973) (claims involving more than
500 persons) Neither appellee nor appellants suggest, however, that the
Board is considering such action.
7 This is confirmed by the fact that Younger abstention was the sole
abstention principle argued orally before the District Court. Record,
Doe. 35, pp. 5-12, 27-29, and 47-49.
sIn Gibson v. Berryhill this Court actually held, however, that the
Younger rule "or the principles of equity, comity, and federalism" for
which it stands, 411 U. S., at 575, did not require the dismissal of that
§ 1983 suit in view of a proceeding then pending before a state Board of
Optometry, since it was alleged, and the District Court there had concluded, that the Board's bias rendered it incompetent to adjudicate the
issues. 411 U. S., at 575-577

OH:IO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 479
471

Opinion of the Court

courts," 408 F Supp., at 1019-1020, the court held that Huffman "was limited to the enjoining of ongoing state-initiated
judicial proceedings," 408 F Supp., at 1020 (emphasis in
original), and did not apply to a challenge to administrative
actions. Finally, the court held that abstention, along the
Pullman line, "would not be proper in this case" because the
challenged statute is not an ambiguous one "involving unsettled questions of state law which could be rendered constitutionally inoffensive by a limiting construction in the state
courts." 408 F Supp., at 1020. The court concluded that
it would be improper to require the appellee "to undertake
three administrative appeals" ' before he could challenge the
statute in state court "where, moreover, the issue as to the
constitutionality of the labor dispute disqualification has
apparently been settled." Ibid.
In this Court, as has been noted, appellants have not argued
that Younger requires a remand with directions to the District Court to abstain, and at oral argument they resisted the
suggestion of such a remand. Tr. of Oral Arg. 9-10. Instead,
it is amicus Republic Steel that has made the suggestion.
Younger v Harris reflects "a system in which there is sensitivity to the legitimate interests of both State and National
Governments, and in which the National Government, anxious
though it may be to vindicate and protect federal rights and
federal interests, always endeavors to do so in ways that will
not unduly interfere with the legitimate activities of the
States." 401 U S., at 44. See Huffman v Pursue, Ltd.,
420 U S., at 604, Jusdice v Vail, 430 U S., at 334, Trainor v
Hernandez, ante, at 441-443, 445-446, and td., at 448 (concurring opinion). Younger and these cited cases express
equitable principles of comity and federalism. They are
designed to allow the State an opportunity to "set its own
9The nature of the three appeals is not made clear. It is possible that
a more expeditious route was available. See n. 6, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion of the Court

431 U.S.

house in order" when the federal issue is already before a state
tribunal.
It may not be argued, however, that a federal court is compelled to abstain in every such situation. If the State voluntarily chooses to submit to a federal forum, principles of
comity do not demand that the federal court force the case
back into the State's own system. In the present case, Ohio
either believes that the District Court was correct in its analysis of abstention or, faced with the prospect of lengthy
administrative appeals followed by equally protracted state
judicial proceedings, now has concluded to submit the constitutional issue to this Court for immediate resolution. In either
event, under these circumstances Younger principles of equity
and comity do not require this Court to refuse Ohio the
immediate adjudication it seeks.1"
B. Amzcus AFL-CIO argues that Pullman abstention is
proper here. 1 The basis for the claimed applicability of
Pullman is found in the facts that there were other steelworkers, at other Ohio facilities, laad off at the same time as
appellee and assertedly for the same reason, and yet they
were awarded unemployment compensation by the Bureau.
See Brief for Appellants 3. Benefits were granted on the
ground that the company-owned coal mines did not supply
a sufficient amount of fuel to the plants there involved to
effect a plant shutdown. 2 Amwus argues that if appellee
1'In view of this conclusion, we need not and do not express any view
on whether the District Court erred in refusing to abstain on Younger
grounds.
1 Pullman abstention, where deference to the state process may result
in elimination or material alteration of the constitutional issue, surely does
not require that this Court defer to the wishes of the parties concerning
adjudication. See Railroad Comm'n v Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496 (1941).
12 It appears that the steel compames have taken an appeal from that
ruling by the Bureau to the Board of Review, but decision of that appeal
has been withheld pending resolution of the instant case. See Brief for
AFL-CIO as Amwus Curae5 n. 3.

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 481
471

Opmion of the Court

were to pursue his administrative appeal, he might be granted
benefits on the same ground.
The problems with this approach, however, are several.
First, appellee did not press any such claim before the Bureau
or on administrative appeal, Tr. of Oral Arg. 9, and there
is no indication that a claimant may be awarded benefits on
the basis of a claim not made to the Bureau or Board of
Review Second, there is no indication that the plant at
which appellee worked is situated similarly to the plants as to
which benefits were granted. The Bureau apparently applied
a test under which the closing of a plant was held not to be
"due to" the labor dispute if the plant received less than 50%
of its coal from the employer's struck mines. Id., at 7-8.
There has been no claim or showing that the 50% test is
unreasonable or improper and there has been no claim that
appellee's plant was not dependent on the struck mines for
more than 50% of its coal. What amzcus suggests is that
the court abstain on the basis of speculation that the unchallenged facts may not be as the Bureau obviously saw them, or
that the Board might overturn an unchallenged standard of
causation, or that the Board might even come up with a
hitherto unknown and unclaimed reason for awarding benefits
to appellee, such as a theory that because the coal strike was
nationwide it was not "'at the employers' mmnes."' See Brief
for AFL-CIO as Amzcus Curzae 8.
None of these suggestions is based on fact or solid legal
precedent. As has been noted, Pullman abstention is an
equitable doctrine that comes into play when it appears that
abstention may eliminate or materially alter the constitutional
issue presented. There is a point, however, at which the possible benefits of abstention become too-speculative to justify
or require avoidance of the question presented. That point
has been reached and surpassed here. We conclude that
Pullman abstention is not appropriate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

III
Pre-emption
Appellee argues that the Ohio statute is in conflict with,
or pre-empted by, certain provisions of the Social Security
Act, 42 U S. C. § 501 et seq., and the Federal Unemployment
Tax Act, 26 U S. C. §§ 3301-3311. This argument was raised
in the District Court but was not resolved there. It would
have been preferable, of course, for that court to have dealt
with this statutory issue first. See Hagans v Lavne, 415
U S. 528, 543-545 (1974)
The issue, however, entails no
findings of fact and has been fully briefed here by both parties.
We therefore perceive no need to remand to the District Court,
and we proceed to decide the question.
Appellee points to two statutes as the source of his claimed
federal requirement that he be paid unemployment compensation. The first is 42 U S. C. § 503 (a)(1), to the effect that
the Secretary of Labor shall make no certification for payment of federal funds to state unemployment compensation
programs unless state law provides for such methods of admnistration "as are found by the Secretary of Labor to be reasonably calculated to insure full payment of unemployment
compensation when due." Appellee's argument necessarily is
that payment is "due" him.
Appellee cites only a single page of the voluminous legislative history of the Social Security Act in support of his
assertion that the Act forbids disqualification of persons laid
off due to a labor dispute at a related plant.. That page
contains the sentence. "To serve its purposes, unemployment
compensation must be paid only to workers involuntarily unemployed." Report of the Commttee on Economic Security,
as reprinted in Hearings on S. 1130 before the Senate Committee on Finance, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 1311, 1328 (1935)
The cited Report was one to the President of the United
States and became the cornerstone of the Social Security
Act. On its face, the quoted sentence may be said to give

OBIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 483
471

Opinion of the Court

some support to appellee's clain that "involuntariness" was

intended to be the key to eligibility A reading of the entire
Report and consideration of the sentence in context, however,
show that Congress did not intend to require that the States
give coverage to every person involuntarily unemployed.
The Report recognized that federal definition of the scope
of coverage would probably prove easier to administer than
individualized state plans, ud., at 1323, but it nonetheless
recommended the form of unemployment compensation
scheme that exists today, namely, federal involvement primarily through tax incentives to encourage state-run programs.
The Report's section entitled "Outline of Federal Act" concludes with the statement:
"The plan for unemployment compensation that we
suggest contemplates that the States shall have broad
freedom to set up the type of unemployment compensation they wish. We believe that all matters in which
uniformity is not absolutely essential should be left to
the States. The Federal Government, however, should
assist the States in setting up their administrations and
in the solution of the problems they will encounter."
Id., at 1326.
See also 2d., at 1314.
Following this statement, the Report contains a section
entitled "Suggestions for State Legislation." It reads:
"Benefits.-The States should have freedom in determining their own waiting periods, benefit rates, maximum-benefit periods, etc. We suggest caution lest they
insert benefit provisions in excess of collections in their
laws. To arouse hopes of benefits which cannot be fulfilled is invariably bad social and governmental policy"
Id., at 1327
This statement reflects two things. First, it reflects
the understanding that unemployment compensation schemes

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 I. S.

generally do not grant full benefits immediately and indefinitely, even to those involuntarily unemployed. The States
were expected to create waiting periods, benefit rates, and
maximum-benefit periods, so as to bring the amount paid
out in line with receipts. Second, the statement reflects
concern that the States might grant eligibility greater than
their funds could handle.
By way of advice on particular statutes, the Report's "Suggestions" contains the following"Willingness-to-work test.--To serve its purposes, unemployment compensation must be paid only to workers
involuntarily unemployed. The employees compensated
must be both able and willing to work and must be denied
benefits if they refuse to accept other suitable employment. Workers, however, should not be required to accept positions with wage, hour, or working conditions
below the usual standard for the occupation or the particular region, or outside of the State, or where their
rights of self-organization and collective bargaining would
be interfered with." Id., at 1328.
This, as has been noted, is the origin of appellee's argument
that all persons involuntarily unemployed were intended to
be compensated. Placed in context, however, it is clear that
the single sentence is only an expression of caution that funds
should not be dispensed too freely, and is not a direction that
funds must be dispensed.
Appellee's claim of support in the legislative history accordingly fails. Indeed, that history shows, rather, that Congress did not intend to restrict the ability of the States to
legislate with respect to persons in appellee's position. See
also H. R. Rep. No. 615, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 8-9 (1935), S.
Rep. No. 628, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., 12-13 (1935)
Appellee would find support in the "labor dispute disqualification" contained in § 5 (d) of draft bills issued by the
Social Security Board shortly after passage of the Social Se-

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 485
471

Opinion of the Court

curity Act. Social Security Board, Draft Bills for State Unemployment Compensation of Pooled Fund and Employer
Reserve Account Types (1936) 11 Appellee argues that this
proposed section evinced an intention that "innocent" per-

sons not be disqualified from unemployment compensation.
The Social Security Board, however, on the cover page of the

draft bills booklet explicitly stated.
Therefore,
"These drafts are merely suggestive
they cannot properly be termed 'model' bills or even

recommended bills.

This is in keeping with the policy

of the Social Security Board of recognizing that it is the
final responsibility and the right of each state to determine for itself just what type of legislation it desires and
how it shall be drafted."
We therefore are most reluctant to read implications of the
draft bills into the Social Security Act.
More important, however, appellee's argument fails on its
face. The draft bills themselves denied "innocents" certain
compensation. They did so not only in the various provisions
Section 5 (d)of those bills provided that a claimant is disqualified:
"For any week m which it is found by the commssion that his total or
partial unemployment is due to a stoppage of work which emsts because of
a labor dispute at the factory, establishment or other premises at which
he is or was last employed, provided that this subsection shall not apply
if it is shown to the satisfaction of the commission that:
"1. He is not participating in or financing or directly interested in the
labor dispute which caused the stoppage of work; and
"2. He does not belong to a grade or class of workers of which, immediately before the commencement of the stoppage, there were members
employed at the premises at which the stoppage occurs, any of whom are
participating m or financing or directly interested in the dispute;
"and provided further that if m any case separate branches of work,
which are commonly conducted as separate businesses in separate premises,
are conducted in separate departments of the same premises, each such
department shall for the purposes of this subsection be deemed to be a
separate factory, establishment or other premises."
13

OCTOBERI TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

as to minimum time spent at the job, waiting periods, and
maximum benefits, but also in the labor dispute disqualification itself. The labor dispute provisions are triggered by a
dispute at the same "establishment" and they disqualify any
member of a "grade or class of workers" any of whose members
were interested in the dispute. As the commentary and case
law in jurisdictions that adopted versions of the draft bills inmediately recognized, this division could serve to disqualify
even a person who actively opposed a-strike and could extend
to persons laid off because of a dispute at another plant
owned by the same employer. 14
The law that appellee challenges is different in form from
the draft bills, but we cannot say that it is qualitatively different. We do not find m the draft bills any significant support for appellee's argument that the Social Security Act forbids his disqualification from benefits.
Appellee also claims support from this Court's decision m
California Human Resources Dept. v Java, 402 U S. 121
(1971)
In that case the Court held that the requirement of
42 U S. C. § 503 (a) (1) that payments be made "when due"
forbids suspension of payments during an appeal subsequent
to a full consideration on the merits. Appellee relies on the
Court's statement: "The objective of Congress was to provide
a substitute for wages lost during a period of unemployment
not the fault of the employee." 402 U S., at 130. Appellee
argues that this statement is a holding that the Act forbids
disqualification of persons in his position. We do not agree.
Nothing in Java purported to define the class of persons eli14 See Fierst & Spector, Unemployment Compensation in Labor Disputes,
49 Yale L. J. 461 (1940), Haggart, Unemployment Compensation During
Labor Disputes, 37 Neb. L. Rev 668 (1958), Shadur, Unemployment
Benefits and the "Labor Dispute" Disqualification, 17 U Chi. L. Rev 294
(1950), Comment, Labor Dispute Disqualification Under the Ohio Unemployment Compensation Act, 10 Ohio St. L. J. 238 (1949), and cases cited
theren. See generally Annot., 63 A. L. R. 3d 88 (1975).

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 487
471

Opinion of the Court

gible for benefits. The Court's sole concern there was with
the treatment of those who already had been determined under
state law to be eligible.
Finally, appellee argues that statements in the legislative
history of the Employment Security Amendments of 1970, 84
Stat. 695, indicate a congressional understanding that persons
in his position must not be disqualified. These statements
(identical in both House and Senate Reports) relate to the
amendment prohibiting States from canceling accumulated
wage credits on grounds such as an employee's change of jobs.' 5
The statements are concerned with a situation unrelated to
the one in which appellee finds himself. To the extent that
they might be seen as shedding light on the area, they are
far from persuasive authority in appellee's favor, since they
recognize that the States continue to be free to disqualify a
claimant whose unemployment is due to a labor dispute "in
the worker's plant, etc."
15 The statements read:
"The provision [forbidding cancellation]

would not restrict State

authority to prescribe the conditions under which a clanant would be
'otherwise eligible.' For example, benefits are not now-and would not
under the proposal be--paid for a week of unemployment unless the
claimant were available for work. It would not prevent a State from
specifying the conditions for disqualification such as, for refusing suitable
work, for voluntary quitting, for unemployment due to a labor dispute in
the worker's plant, etc.
"Your [in the Senate report this word is 'the'] committee believes that
the disqualification provisions of State unemployment compensation laws
should be devised so as to prevent benefit payments to those responsible
for their own unemployment, without undermining the basic objective of
the unemployment insurance system-to provide an income floor to those
whose unemployment is beyond their control. Severe disqualifications,
particularly those which cancel earned monetary entitlement, are not in
harmony with the basic purposes of an unemployment insurance system."
H. R. Rep. No. 91-612, pp. 18-19 (1969), S.Rep. No. 91-752, pp. 23-24
(1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

As an alternative or addition to his argument based on the
Social Security Act, appellee urges that the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, 26 U S. C. §§ 3301-3311, as amended,
shows "congressional intent to pre-empt the state, particularly
with respect to the scope of inclusiveness in the unemployment
program." Brief for Appellee 13. We do not understand
appellee to argue that the States are pre-empted by the Federal Unemployment Tax Act from imposing any sort of labor
dispute disqualification. If total pre-emption is not claimed,
we find nothing in any of appellee's citations that would show
pre-emption in the particular area of concern to him. Indeed, study of the various provisions cited shows that when
Congress wished to impose or forbid a condition for compensation, it was able to do so m explicit terms."
There are
numerous examples, in addition to the one set forth in n. 16,
less related to labor disputes but showing congressional ability
to deal with specific aspects of state plans. 7 The fact that
Congress has chosen not to legislate on the subject of labor
dispute disqualifications confirms our belief that neither the
21 See, for example, 26 U S. C. § 3304 (a) (5), which from the start has
provided:
"(5) compensation shall not be deied in such State to any otherwise
eligible individual for refusing to accept new work under any of the
following conditions:
"(A) if the position offered is vacant due directly to a strike, lockout,
or other labor dispute;
"(B) if the wages, hours, or other conditions of the work offered are
substantially less favorable to the individual than those prevailing for
similar work in the locality;
"(C) if as a condition of being employed the individual would be
required to join a company union or to resign from or refrain from
3ommg any bona fide labor organization."
17 See Employment Security Amendments of 1970, 84 Stat. 695, Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 1971, 85 Stat. 811, Emergency
Unemployment Compensation Act of 1974, 88 Stat. 1869; Unemployment
Compensation Amendments of 1976, 90 Stat. 2667

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 489
471

Opmlon of the Court

Social Security Act nor the Federal Unemployment Tax Act
was intended to restrict the States' freedom to legislate in this
area.

IV
Constitutionality

We come, then, to the question whether the Ohio labor
dispute disqualification provision is constitutional. The statute does not involve any discernible fundamental interest or
affect with particularity any protected class. Appellee concedes that the test of constitutionality, therefore, is whether
the statute has a rational relation to a legitimate state interest.
Brief for Appellee 29. See New Orleans v Dukes, 427 U S.
297 (1976)
Our statement last Term in Massachusetts Bd.
of Retirement v Murgia, 427 U S. 307 (1976), explains the
analysis:
"We turn then to examme this state classification under
the rational-basis standard. This inquiry employs a relatively relaxed standard reflecting the Court's awareness
that the drawing of lines that create distinctions is peculiarly a legislative task and an unavoidable one. Perfection in making the necessary classifications is neither
possible nor necessary Danddge v Williams, [397
U S. 471,] 485 [(1970)]. Such action by a legislature is
presumed to be valid." Id., at 314.
Appellee challenges the statute only in its application to
persons in his situation. We find it difficult, however, to
discern the precise nature of the situation that appellee claims
may not be the subject of disqualification. His discussion
focuses to a great extent on his claim that he is "involuntarily
unemployed," but he cannot be arguing that no person involuntarily unemployed may be disqualified, for he approves the
draft bills' labor dispute provision. Brief for Appellee 53.
That provision, as discussed above, would disqualify an involuntarily unemployed nonunion worker who opposed a strike

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

but whose grade or class of workers nevertheless went out on
strike.
Appellee's claim of irrationality appears to be based, rather,
on his view of the statute's broad sweep, in that it disqualifies
an individual "regardless of the geographical remoteness of the
location of the dispute, and regardless of any arguable actual,
or imputable, participation or direct interest in the dispute on
the part of the disqualified person." 18 Id., at 34. Appellee
thus focuses on the interests of the recipient of unemployment compensation.
The unemployment compensation statute, however, touches
upon more than just the recipient. It provides for the creation of a fund produced by contributions from private
employers. The rate of an employer's contribution to the
fund varies according to benefits paid to that employer's eligiAny
ble employees. Ohio Rev Code Ann. § 4141.25 (1973)
action with regard to disbursements from the unemployment
compensation fund thus will affect both the employer and the
fiscal integrity of the fund. Appellee in effect urges that the
Court consider only the needs of the employee seeking compensation. The decision of the weight to be given the various
effects of the statute, however, is a legislative decision, and
appellee's position is contrary to the principle that "the Fourteenth Amendment gives the federal courts no power to impose
upon the States their views of what constitutes wise economc
or social policy" Dandndge v Williams, 397 U S. 471, 486
Is Appellee also claims that § 4141.29 (D) (1) (a) creates an impermissible
"irrebuttable presumption." This argument requires two assumptions.
First, appellee must assume that the only purpose of the statute is to
measure "innocence." Then he must assume that the disqualification provision represents a presumption that any person laid off due to a strike is
not innocent. If the statute is designed to serve any purpose other than
measuring innocence, appellee's inplication of an irrebuttable presumption
fails. As we discuss below, the statute clearly has purposes other than
measuring the innocence of the disqualified worker.

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 491
471

Opinion of the Court

(1970). In considering the constitutionality of the statute,
therefore, the Court must view its consequences, not only for
the recipient of benefits, but also for the contributors to the
fund and for the fiscal integrity of the fund.
Looking only at the face of the statute, an acceptable
rationale immediately appears. The disqualification is triggered by "a labor dispute other than a lockout." In other
words, if a union goes on strike, the employer's contributions
are not increased, but if the employer locks employees out,
all his employees thus put out of work axe compensated
and the employer's contributions accordingly are increased.
Although one might say that this system provides only "rough
justice," its treatment of the employer is far from irrational.
"If the classification has some 'reasonable basis,' it does not

offend the Constitution simply because the classification 'is not
made with mathematical icety or because in practice it
results in some inequality' Lindsley v Natural Carboniw
Gas Co., 220 U S. 61, 78." Dandndge v Williams, 397 U S.
at 485. The rationality of this treatment is, of course,
independent of any "innocence" of the workers collecting
compensation.
Appellants assert three additional rationales for the disqualification provision. First, they argue that granting benefits to workers laid off due to a strike at a parent company's
subsidiary plant in effect would be subsidizing the umon
members. Brief for Appellants 12. The District Court correctly rejected this rationale, as applied to appellee and his
class, bscause payments to appellee would in no way directly
subsidize the striking coal miners, and the fact that appellee
happened to be a member of a union (other than the striking
union) is not a legitimate reason, standing alone, to deny him
benefits. 408 F Supp., at 1022. The court continued.
"Moreover, close scrutiny of the reasons for the State's
classification reveals that what the state is actually intend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

ing to prevent is not the 'subsidizing' of unemployed
unon members per se, but the subsidizing of unioninitiated work stoppages" (emphasis in original) Ibid.
This statement of the State's purpose reflects its second
proffered justification, namely, that the granting of benefits
would place the employer at an unfair disadvantage in negotiations with the unions. The District Court rejected this
justification on the grounds that payments of funds to the
steelworkers
"could hardly be deemed to put the coal miners in a
position to refuse to negotiate with the steel companies
until the companies reached a financial crisis, thereby
causing the companies to yield to the unreasonable and
economically unsound demands of the coal miners to
prevent bankruptcy" Ibd.
Although the District Court was reacting to appellants' own
hyperbole in speaking of financial crises and bankruptcy, it
must be recognized that effects less than pushing the employer
to bankruptcy may be rationally viewed as undesirable.
The employer's costs go up with every laid-off worker who is
qualified to collect unemployment. The only way for the
employer to stop these rising costs is to settle the strike so as
to return the employees to work. Qualification for unemployment compensation thus acts as a lever increasing the pressures
on an employer to settle a strike. The State has chosen to
leave this lever in existence for situations in which the
employer has locked out his employees, but to eliminate it if
the union has made the strike move. Regardless of our views
of the wisdom or lack of wisdom of this form of state "neutrality" in labor disputes, we cannot say that the approach
taken by Ohio is irrational.
The third rationale offered by the State is its interest in
protecting the fiscal integrity of its compensation fund. This
has been a continuing concern of Congress and the States with
regard to unemployment compensation systems. See Report

OHIO BUREAU OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICES v. HODORY 493
471

Opmlon of the Court

of the Committee on Economic Security, cited supra, at 482,
Hearing on H. Rt. 6900 before the Senate Committee on
It is clear that protecFinance, 94th Cong., 1st Sess. (1975)
tion of the fiscal integrity of the fund is a legitimate concern
of the State. We need not consider whether it would be
"rational" for the State to protect the fund through a random
means, such as elimination from coverage of all persons with
an odd number of letters m their surnames. Here, the limitation of liability tracks the reasons found rational above, and
the need for such limitation unquestionably provides the legitimate state interest required by the equal protection equation.
The District Court's opinion contains a paragraph declaring
that, in addition to violating the Equal Protection Clause,
the disqualification denied appellee due process. 408 F Supp.,
at 1022. There is, however, no clain of denial of procedural
due process, cf. Mathews v Eldndge, 424 U S. 319 (1976),
and we are unable to discern the basis for a claim that appellee has been denied substantive due process.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed.
It 7s so ordered.

MR. JuSTCFc RIBHNQUIST took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

