BOWMAN v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y CO. 611
Syllabus.

to enforce its lien for these costs of survey, by sale of the lands
or by forfeiture of title, the Treasury of the United States
would soon be reimbursed for its expenses in making the surveys, and the States and Territories, in which the lands lay, be
remitted to their appropriate rights of taxation. The courts
can do no more than declare the law as it exists.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of -Dakota
is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to
cause a decree to be entered perpetuallyenjoiningthe Treasurer of Traill County frorm any furtherproceeding to col-

lect the taxes in the bill mentioned.

BOWMAN & Another v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 17, 15S.-Decided December 7, 1885.
Plaintiff's declaration contained two counts, for the same cause of action, each
seeking the recovery of $1200 from defendant. Defendant pleaded to the
declaration, and plaintiffs demurred to the pleas. A few days later plaintiffs amended their declaration by leave of court so as to demand $10,000,
Parties then filed
and on the same day the demurrer was overruled.
a stipulation that in making up the record to this court the clerk of the
Circuit Court should only transmit the amended declaration and pleas
thereto ; and judgment was then entered for defendant on the demurrer;
HTeld, That it was apparent on the face of the record that the actual value
of the matter in dispute was not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.
The right of a railroad corporation as a common carrier to carry goods for hire
is not a right, privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution of the
United States, within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 699, conferring upon
this court jurisdiction, without regard to the sum or value in dispute, for
the review of any final judgment at law or final decree in equity of any
Circuit Court, or of any District Court acting as a Circuit Court, brought
on account of the deprivation of any right, privilege, or immunity secured
by the Constitution of the United States, or of any right or privilege of a
citizen of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Xr.Louis J. Blum for plaintiff in error.

Xr. B.

. Cook and X1rI.A. J. Baker for defendant in error.

MR. CniEF JusTio

WAiTE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought by Oeorge A. Bowman, a citizen of
Nebraska, and Fred. W. Bowman, a citizen of Iowa, against
the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, an Illinois
corporation, doing business as a common carrier of goods for
hire between Chicago, Illinois, and Council Bluffs, Iowa, to
recover damages for a refusal of the company to receive and
carry one thousand kegs of beer from Chicago to Marshalltown, a city on the line of its road, in the State of Iowa.
There are two counts in the declaration on the same cause of
action, and in each it is stated that the damages sustained
amount to $1200. The suit was begun February 11, 1885, and
the declaration was filed about that time. Pleas were filed by
the company February 26, setting up as an excuse for not ieceiving and carrying the goods, a statute of Iowa which made
it a penal offence for any railroad company to knowingly bring
within that State any intoxicating liquors for a person who did
not have a proper certificate authorizing him to sell such articles, and that the plaintiffs had no such certificate, and that the
beer which was offered for transportation was an intoxicating
liquor within the meaning of the statute. On the 8th of May
the plaintiffs demurred to these pleas, and on the 11th of the
same month amended their declaration, by leave of the court, so
as to increase the damages demanded to $10,000. The demurrer
to the pleas was overruled on the same day, and on the 23d of
June a written stipulation was filed in the cause, as follows:
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed by and between the
respective parties hereto that, in making up the record of this
cause to be transmitted to the Supreme Court of the United

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y CO. 613
Opinion of the Court.

States, the clerk of this court shall only transmit or copy into
the record the amended declaration showing the ad [quod]
damnura to 5e $10,000, and the pleas of the defendant to said
declaration, together with the demurrer thereto, and the ruling
of the court thereon."
Afterwards, and on the 13th of July, judgment was entered
in favor of the defendant. To reverse that judgment this writ
of error was brought, and docketed here October 21. At a later
day in the term the cause was submitted under Rule 20 on
printed briefs.
Upon the face of this record it is apparent that the actual
value of the matter in dispute is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction. It is now well settled that our jurisdiction in an
action upon a money demand is governed by the value of the
actual matter in dispute in this court, as shown by the whole
record, and not by the damages claimed or the prayer for judgment alone. Zee v. Watson, 1 Wall. 337; Schacker v. Hart,fo'd Fire Insurance Co., 93 U. S. 241; Gray v. Blanchard,
97 U. S. 564; Tintsman v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 6;
Banking Association v. Insurance Association, 102 U. S. 121;
Hilton,v. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165, 174; The Jesse Villiamson, Jr., 108 U. S. 305, 309 ; Jenness v. Citizen.s' NationalBank
qf Rome, 110 U. S. 52; Webster v. Bufalo Insurance Co., 110
U. S. 386, 388; Brad.street Co. v. Higgins, 112 U. S. 227. As
was said'in Hilton v. Dickinson, "It is undoubtedly true that
until it is in some way shown by the record that the sum demanded is not the matter in dispute, that sum will govern in
all questions of jurisdiction, but it is equally true that, when it
is shown that the sum demanded is not the real matter in dispute, the sum shown, and not the sum demanded, will prevail."
Here the suit is to recover damages for not transporting from
Chicago to Marshalltown one thousand kegs of beer. There
are no allegations of special damage or malicious conduct. In
the original declaration the claim was for only $1200, and it
was not until the case was actually decided, or about to be decided on its merits, that application was made for leave to
increase the amount of the demand. Then it was manifestly
done, not in the expectation of recovering more than was orig-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

inally claimed, but to give color to the jurisdiction of this
court. As it.stands, the case is not materially different in principle from that of Lee v. TWatson, supra,where, after a demurrer
was sustained, the demand for damages was increased, by leave
of the court, so as to be in excess of our jurisdictional limit,
although it was apparent from the whole record that in no event
could there be a recovery except for a much less sum. Under
these circumstances, the court did not hesitate to dismiss the
cause, for the reason that it was clear the amendment was made
for the sole purpose of giving color of jurisdiction. Here the
stipulation which was put on file, taken in connection with the
time it was made, shows unmistakably that the purpose of the
amendment was to make a case for our jurisdiction. InSmith
v. G6reenkow, 109 U. S. 669, the action begun in a State court
was trespass for taking and carrying away personal property
of the value of $100, but the damages were laid at $6000. On
the removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the United
States it was remanded, on the ground that the case was not
one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
This we decided was error, and, therefore, reversed the order
to remand, but, in doing so, remarked that, "if the Circuit
Court had found, as matter of fact, that the amount of damages stated in the declaration was colorable, and had been laid
beyond the amount of reasonable expectation of recovery, for
the purpose of creating a case removable under the act of
Congress, . . . the order remanding it to the State court
could have been sustained." This was said in reference to the
requirement of the removal act of 1875, which limits the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, under such circumstances, to cases
"where the matter in dispute exceeds
.
.
the sum of
five hundred dollars," but it is equally applicable to appeals
and writs of error to this court where our jurisdiction depends
on the money value of the matter in dispute.
It is suggested, however, that the case falls within the fourth
subdivision of Rev. Stat. § 699, which gives this court jurisdiction, "without regard to the sum or value in dispute," for the
review of "any final judgment at law or final decree in equity
of any Circuit Court, or of any District Court acting as a Cir-

BOWMAN v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y CO. 615
Opinion of the Court.
cuit Court, in any case brought on account of the deprivation
of any right, privilege, or immunity secured by the Constitution of the United States, or of any right or privilege of a
citizen of the United States."
The authority for making this a part of the Revised Statutes is found in what are known as the "Civil Rights" acts of
April 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 27, ch. 31, § 1, 3, 10; May 31, 1870,
16 Stat. 144, ch. 114, §§ 16, 18; and April 20,1871, 11, Stat. 13,
ch. 22, §§ 1, 2. In the original statutes this provision was applicable only to the particular rights, privileges and immunities
therein mentioned. In the Revised Statutes it stands separate
from the other parts of the old acts, and is to be construed accordingly, but with reference to the general rules of interpretation applicable to the revision. We deem it unnecessary to
consider now whether it has, in its present form, a more extended meaning than it had originally, because, in our opinion,
this is not a case to which it can, in any event, be applied.
The alleged right of which these plaintiffs have been deprived
is one secured to them, if secured at all, not by the Constitution, but by that principle of general law which requires a
common carrier of goods for hire to carry, whenever he is asked
to do so, within the general scope of his professed business,
and for a reasonable reward. It grows out of the duty which
in law a common carrier owes to the public at large, and is no
more secured by the Constitution than are any other of the
ordinary transactions of business. Whether the railroad company is excused from the performance of that duty by the statute on which it relies may depend on the Constitution. If the
statute is constitutional, the plaintiffs are deprived of the right
which they would otherwise have had in law, but if not, the
railway company must carry for them. This, not because the
Constitution requires it, but because the statute does not furnish a sufficient excuse for not carrying. The question is not,
therefore, whether the plaintiffs have been deprived of a right
which the Constitution has secured to them, but whether a
right existing without the Constitution, has been lawfully taken
away. The case may be one arising under the Constitution,
within the meaning of that term, as used in other statutes, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

it is not one brought on account of the deprivation of a right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution, within the
meaning of this provision.
The writ of error is
1)ismimed for want ofjuriscition.

CLAY COUNTY v. McA-LEER & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF IOWA.

STATES FOR THE

Argued November 18, 1885.-Decided December 7,1885.

Judgment was recovered in the Circuit Court against a county in Iowa, on

which execution was issued, which was returned unsatisfied. By statute
of Iowa the county was authorized to levy and collect a tax of six mills
on the dollar of the assessed value of taxable property, for ordinary county
revenue. The judgment creditor commenced proceedings in the same
court for a mandamus commanding the county officers to set apart funds to
pay the debt, or to levy and collect sufficient tax for the purpose. By the
pleadings it was admitted that the whole amount of the tax for a current
year was necessary for the ordinary current expenses of the county. On
an application by a judgment creditor of the county to compel the levy
of an amount sufficient to pay the judgment which was recovered in the
Circuit Court of the United States : Held, That on the facts pleaded and
admitted no case was made justifying a writ of mandamus.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
fr.

George G.

'riglitfor

plaintiff in error.

.2r.,Tohn Xitchell for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This record shows that Michael McAleer recovered a judg-

ment on the 21st of October, 1864, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Iowa, against Clay County,

for $9,12.50.

Upon this judgment sundry payments have

