OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

SMITH v. BLACK, Trustee.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUThIBIA.
Argued October 26, 27, 1885.-Decided November 9, 15.
Under a deed of trust, covering land in the District of Columbia, made by a
debtor to two grantees, their heirs and assigns, to secure the payment of a
promissory note, by which deed the grantees were empowered, on default,
to sell the land at public auction, "on such terms and conditions, and at
such time and place, and after such previous public advertisement," as they,
"their assigns or heirs," should deem advantageous and proper, and to
convey the same in fee simple to the purchaser, a sale was had by public
auction, under a notice of sale, signed by both of the trustees, and duly
published in a newspaper, but at the sale only one of the trustees was present. The proceedings at the sale were fair, both of the trustees united in a
deed to the purchaser, and no ground appeared for setting the sale aside :
Ield, That the absence from the sale of one of the trustees was not a
sufficient reason, of itself, for setting aside the sale, as against the former
owner of the land.
The creditor, in this case, was the purchaser at the sale, and it was held that
there was nothing shown which disqualified him from becoming such purchaser.
Alleged inadequacy of price considered, and the sale upheld, as against that
allegation.
The purchaser, at the time he took the deed from the trustees, settled with one
of the trustees, on the basis of a purchase for cash, although the terms of
sale provided for a credit, and, as holder of the note secured, credited on it
the amount of the net proceeds of sale, leaving a sum still due on the note:
field, That no right of the former owner of the land was violated by this
course.

On the 23d of May, 1872, John Stearns, being the owner of
certain land in the City of Washington, in the District of Columbia, on 20th Street, New Hampshire Avenue, and P Street
Circle, or Dupont Circle, containing in all 19,886 square feet,
executed, with his wife, a deed of trust, covering the land, as
security for the payment of a promissory note for $5,500, made
by Stearns, dated May 23, 1872, payable in five years, with
interest at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum, payable semiannually, to the order of Walter Linkins, the note being given
to secure a part of the purchase money of the land. The
grantees in the deed were John F. Fuller and James M. Latta,

SMITH v. BLACK.
Statement of Facts.

their heirs and assigns. One of the trusts in the deed was
expressed thus: "Upon default being made in the payment of
the said note or interest as stipulated, or any proper cost,
charge, commission, half commission, or expense, in and about
the same, then and at any time thereafter, to sell the said piece
or parcel of ground and premises, at public auction, upon such
terms and conditions, and at such time and place, and after
such previous public advertisement," as the said Fuller and
Latta, "their assigns or heirs, in the execution of this trust,
shall deem advantageous and proper, and to convey the same
in fee simple to, and at the cost of, the purchaser or purchasers
thereof, who shall not be required to see to the application of
the purchase money; and the proceeds of said sale or sales,
first, to pay all proper costs, charges and expenses, and to retain
as compensation a commission of five per cent. on the amount
of the said sale or sales; secondly, to pay whatever may then
remain unpaid of the said note and the interest thereon,
whether the same shall be due or not; and, lastly, to pay the
remainder, if any, to the said John Stearns, his heirs or as-

sicn.,
On the 19th of April, 1873, Mrs. Mary A. Derby purchased
the premises from Stearns, at the price of $1 per square foot,
making $19,886. She paid $6,000 in cash, gave her notes for
$8,386, and assnmed the payment of the $5,500 note, with
interest from November 23, 1872. Stearns conveyed the
land to her.
On the 14th of April, 1875, Linkins sold the $5,500 note to
the defendant Walter H. Smith. It fell due May 26, 1877,
and was not paid. There was some negotiation between Mrs.
Derby and Smith, in the summer of 1877, in regard to providing for its payment. Mrs. Derby, being in ill health, on October 27, 1877, conveyed the land in question (with other land)
to her daughter, Mrs. Black, the plaintiff in this suit,,her heirs
and assigns, in trust to lease, sell and convey it, and, after
paying expenses and commissions, to pay the proceeds to the
grantor, her heirs, executors or administrators. There was further negotiation between Smith and Mrs. Black, but, the note
being past due, with interest from May 23, 1877, the following

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

notice was published in the Evening Star, a newspaper in the
City of Washington, the description of the land in the notice
being the same as in the deed of trdst to Fuller and Latta:
"B. H. Warner, Real Estate Auctioneer.
"Trustees' sale of valuable property bordering on the P Street
Circle, New Hampshire Avenue and 20th Street.
"By virtue of a deed of trust, dated May 23d, A.D. 1872, and
duly recorded in liber No. 682, folio 405, one of the land
records of the District of Columbia, and at the request of the
party secured thereby, we will sell at public auction, in front of
the premises, to the highest bidder, on Wednesday, January
30th, A.D. 1878, at 4 o'clock P.m., the following real estate in
the City of Washington, in said District, to wit:" [Here follows the description.] "Terms of sale: Three thousand dollars in cash; the balance in equal instalments in six and twelve
months respectively, with interest at eight per cent. until paid,
secured by a deed of trust on the property. Conveyancing at
the cost of purchaser. If the terms of the sale are not complied with in five days after the sale, we reserve the right to resell at the risk and cost of the defaulting purchaser.
"JAmEs

1.LArTA,

"Joux F.
"J. F.

OAUYIWELL,

Salesman.

FULLER,

Tlrustee."

The sale took place by public auction, in front of the premises, at the time named in the notice, and they were sold to
the defendant Smith, he being the highest bidder, for $7,000.
On the 13th of February, 1878, Latta and Fuller, the trustees,
executed a deed conveying the land to Smith, his heirs and assigns. The deed contained this recital: "And whereas the period
fixed for the payment of said note has expired without the
same being liquidated, and the said party of the first part, at
the written request of the legal holder of the said note, being
the party secured by said trust, did, on the seventeenth day of
January, A.D. 1878, according to the provisions of said trust,
advertise the hereinafter-described premises for 12 days in the

SMITH v. BLACK.
Statement of Facts.

Evening Star, a newspaper printed and published in the City
of Washington, District of Columbia, to be sold on the thirtieth day of January, A.D. 1878, at the hour of four o'clock
P.m., on the premises, at which public sale, the said Walter 11.
Smith being the highest bidder, the same was sold to him for
the sum of seven thousand dollars, the terms of which sale being three thousand dollars in cash, and the balance in two payments in six and twelve months, with interest at eight per cent.;
and whereas the said Walter H. Smith, having complied with
the terms of said sale, the said party of the first part executes
these presents."
On the 25th of March, 1880, the bill in this suit was filed by
Mrs. Black, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The defendants were Smith, Fuller and Latta, and the trustees
in two deeds of trust, each to secure $3,000, which Smith had
executed, covering the premises, since they were conveyed to
him, but it was stated in the bill that the plaintiff did not seek
to disturb the rights acquired by those trustees. The bill alleged that in March, 1880, Smith dedicated to public use a part
of the land fronting on P Street Circle, and sold to one Page,
for $14,200, another part of it, receiving $8,200 in cash, and an
agreement to pay the $6,000 secured by the two deeds of trust
above named; and that the plaintiff did not seek to disturb the
rights acquired by Page.
The bill prayed for a decree that, as to so much of the land
as Smith did not convey to Page, (excepting what was dedicated to public use,) the sale by Fuller and Latta be set aside,
and their deed to Smith be cancelled; that an account be taken
of the proceeds of the sale by Fuller and Latta, and of the
amount due on the $5,500 note at the, time of the sale, and of
all taxes on the property chargeable to the plaintiff ; that the
proceeds of the property, whether from the sale to Page or from
rents collected by Smith, be accounted for by him, and be
brought into court to constitute a trust fund for the benefit of
the plaintiff ; that the amount properly payable on the $5,500
note, and all costs and charges properly to be added thereto,
be ascertained; that the same be paid in liquidation of the note
and charges, and the plaintiff and the land be released from

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

liability therefor; and that the balance of the fund be paid to
her. There was, also, a prayer for general relief.
The bill alleged that Fuller knew nothing about the advertisement, or that the property was to be sold, or had been sold,
until the day on which he executed the deed to Smith; that
Latta acted on his own sole responsibility in fixing on the place
and time and terms and conditions of the sale, and was the
only trustee present at it; that Fuller signed the deed to Smith,
at the request of the latter, who brought it to him when he
was ill in bed, and told him that it was satisfactory to Linkins;
that Linkins did not authorize Smith to represent that Linkins
was satisfied with the sale; that the sale took place at 4 o'clock
in the afternoon of an inclement day, few persons being
present; that one person asked if a lot could be sold with a
-privilege, and was told it could not, although he was ready to
make a bid therefor; that there was no competition; that the
price of 35 cents a foot, at which it was knocked: down to
Smith, was wholly inadequate; that, in view of the absence of
his co-trustee, the absence of bidders, and the low price offered
by Smith, it was the duty of Latta to adjourn the sale; and
that the property, even at a forced sale, would have brought,
with the least competition, fifty cents a foot.
The bill further alleged that B. H. Warner was entrusted
with looking after the property; that Smith knew this fact;
that the plaintiff learned from a letter sent by Warner, dated
January 24, 1878, that the sale was advertised for January 30,
1878; that she then sent a relative to Washington to see what
could be done, and he sent back word that he could accomplish
nothing, and that the holder of the note had purchased the
property at the sale for $7,000; that she, being at a distance
and unacquainted with business, relied on the fact that, if any
irregularity had existed in the sale, notice of it would have
been communicated by Warner, as the advertisement showed
that the sale was to be conducted by an auctioneer from
Warner's establishment; that she supposed that she no longer
had any rights in the premises; that she had never received
any account or communication from the trustees; that she had
only within a few days past accidentally learned that there were

SMITH v. BLACK.
Argument for Appellee.

suspicious transactions at the sale, and that it was irregularly
conducted; and that as soon as she heard it she took steps to
discover the facts.
Smith answered the bill, as did Fuller and Latta. Proofs
were taken, and, on a hearing, the court, at special term, on
the 19th of February, 1881, made a decree setting aside the
sale, except as to the land sold to Page and that dedicated to
public use, and referring the case to an auditor to state an account between the parties as prayed in the bill. The auditor
reported March 24, 1881, that there was due from Smith to
the plaintiff $5,860.30. Both parties excepted to the report
as to items in the account, but the court, at special term,
overruled the exceptions and confirmed the report as made,
and rendered a decree, on April 12, 1881, finding that there
was due on that day from Smith to the plaintiff $5,860.30;
and ordering that within twenty days he pay her that sum,
with interest from that day, and that Fuller and Latta,
within thirty days, execute to her a deed of release for that
part of the premises as to which the sale was set aside. The
decree imposed the costs of the suit on the plaintiff. Smith
appealed from the decree to the general term, and the plaintiff
appealed to it from so much of the decree as omitted to allow
her interest from the date of filing the bill, and from so much as
overruled her exceptions to the auditor's report, and as charged
her with costs. Both appeals were heard by the court in
general term, and, on the 20th of March, 1882, it rendered a
decree affirming both of the decrees of the special term, with
the modification that Smith join with Fuller and Latta in the
conveyance to the plaintiff; and he was ordered to pay the
costs of the appeals. From that decree Smith appealed to this
court.
.Xr'. Samuel ,S7ellabargerand -Y. S. S. Henkle for appellant.
1[r. Frank TF. Hackett for appellee argued the alleged
frauds, on the facts, and further the following points of law:I. Smith could not be a purchaser. .lichaudv. Girod, 4 How.
503; I71iteo?,?b v. 2urcldn, 5 Mad. 91; 2 Perry on Trusts,
Ed. 1882, ยง 602; Es parte Hfughes, 6 Yes. 617, 624; Owen v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Foulkes, 6 XVes. 630, note, Sumner's Ed.

II. The sale in the

absence of Fuller, and without his knowledge, is void: (a), Because the trustees did not determine the terms and conditions
and place of sale as required by the trust deed, nor was such
previous advertisement had as that instrument contemplated.
Downes v. Glazebrook, 3 Meriv. 200, 208; Lewin on Trusts,
7th Ed. 501. The burden is on the plaintiff in error to show
that proper advertisement was made. Gibson v. Jones, 5
Leigh, 370; iborman, v. Hill, 2 Paton & Heath, 676. (7) Because Latta had no authority to sell in Fuller's absence. Bergen v. Duf, 4 Johns. Oh. 368, 369; Sinclairv. Jackson, 8 Cow.
543; Wilder v. Ranney, 95 N. Y. 7; Brennan, v. Tfillson, 71
Ns. Y. 502; Herd. NJa'rch,12 Cush. 584; Powell v. Tuttle,
3 Coins. 396; Olmstead v. ElffUer, 1 Seld. 144; Peay v. Schenck,
Woolw. 175; People v. Smith, 45 N. Y. 772, 784; Kring v.
Stone, 6 Johns. Oh. 323; Sebastian v. Johnson, 72 Ill. 282;
Chambers v. Jones, 72 Ill. 275; .Afeyer v. Bishop, 12 C. E.
Green [27 N. J. Eq.] 141, 145; Taylor v. co~pkins, 40 Ill. 442;
B'ickenkamp v. Rees, 69 Missouri, 426.
MR. JusTicE B.LTCoHFOiD delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
The decision of the special term on the merits, made by Mr.
Justice Cox (MacArthur & Mackey, 338), went on the ground
that Latta alone attended and conducted the sale, and Fuller
was absent and took no part in it; and that Fuller did not
ratify the sale by signing the deed, because he signed it without any consultation with Latta, and without any information
as to the state of affairs at the sale, or any other information
than that furnished by the recitals in the deed, which was presented to him by Smith and executed at his request. The
judge added: "I think it proper further to remark, that I have
seen nothing in the evidence involving any imputation or reproach against the fairness and honesty of the purchaser." It
is stated that the affirmance by the general term was by a majority of the three justices, and proceeded on the same view as
that held by the special term.

SMITH v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

It is urged, as one ground for setting aside the sale to Smith,
that he had so conducted himself in regard to the trust property as to have become incapable of purchasing and holding it
as against the plaintiff ; and that, being the creditor, he acted
with Latta, in fixing the terms of sale contained in the notice,
to the same extent he would have done if he had been his cotrustee, and wrote the body of the notice and selected the auctioneer, and was the organ of communication between Latta
and Fuller in regard to the sale. We do not see anything in
what Smith did in regard to preparations for the sale which
disqualified him from becoming the purchaser. He was not
agent or trustee for the plaintiff, nor was he attorney for the
trustees or for Latta. He was an attorney and counsellor-atlaw, and, in purchasing the note, had acted for his sister-in law,
and bought it with her money, as an investment for her, though
taking the title to himself and acting as her agent and trustee
in regard to the matter. Latta was selected as trustee by
Stearns, and Fuller by Linkins. Fuller was unacquainted with
the duties of a trustee, and Latta did not know him or where
he was to be found. Smith insisting on a sale, the notice was
prepared in accordance with terms agreed to by Latta., and was
signed by him, and Smith undertook to find Fuller, and found
him and obtained his signature to the notice. B. H.Warner, the
auctioneer named in the notice, was the same person named in
the bill, and had been employed by Mrs. Derby and the plaintiff to endeavor to sell the property or to raise money on it to
pay the note held by Smith. We are unable to find any cause
in these transactions, or in anything else developed in the case,
which, under the most rigid rule, disqualified Smith from becoining a purchaser of the property. This court held in Richards v. Holnze.5, 18 How. 143, that, under a deed of trust like
the present, the creditor for the satisfaction of whose debt the
sale is made, has a right to compete fairly at the sale, and may
become the purchaser. No fraud in fact is alleged in the bill
or shown in the evidence, no effort to keep bidders away from
the sale, or to have a surreptitious sale, no want of the usual
notice of sale, nor any conduct on the part of Smith inconsistent with what was due from him, as a creditor, to Mrs. Derby

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and the plaintiff. He waited nearly eight months after the
principal of the note and the instalment of interest payable at
the date of its maturity became due before he took measures
for a sale. He allowed Mrs. Derby and the plaintiff to make
every effort to sell the land at private sale, or to raise the
money at a higher rate of interest than 6 per cent., to pay off
the note. In July, 1877, Mrs. Derby wrote to him that she
had tried in vain to get the money at a lower rate than 10 per
cent., and asked him to have the debt extended at that rate at
least until the fall, when she would sell the property if it
brought no more than enough to pay the debt. In December,
1877, the plaintiff wrote to him that she had people working
for her all the time trying to sell the ground, but she had failed
so far to receive any offer which she thought more to her advantage than a sale under a foreclosure, and that she would
sell the land to him at 50 cents per square foot, he paying
enough in cash to repay his sister-in-law and the taxes on the
property, and giving her his note for the rest at 8 per cent. interest, secured on the property. But the general taxes on the
property were unpaid, and it bad been sold for their non-payment, and there were special taxes against it, and Mr. Smith
declined to purchase at the price asked. Prior to that, and in
August, 1877, as his sister-in-law was pressing for some money,
and in order to allow the plaintiff time to see if she could arrange the debt, he signed a note for $1,000 at 60 days, which
Mr. Warner indorsed, and it was discounted and the money
sent to the sister-in-law. This note was renewed for 60 days
more, but, the plaintiff having accomplished nothing, proceedings for a sale were taken.
The question as to whether the signature "John F. Fuller"
to the notice of sale, the original of which was produced in
evidence, was genuine and made by Fuller, received some
prominence in the proofs. Faller's real name was "John E.
Fuller." But he was called "John F. Fuller" in the deed of
trust, and there is no dispute that he signed his name "John
F. Fuller" to the deed to Smith, and to a paper he executed
at the same time assigning to Smith his interest in the trustees'
commissions. His testimony as to his not signing the notice

SMITH v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

of sale amounts only to this, that he does not recollect signing
it, and does not recollect the conversations and interviews with
Smith, to which Smith testifies. His denial of the signature
appeams to be based on the fact that his name is John E. Fuller; and his ultimate answer is that he will not swear he did
not sign the notice. Smith testifies positively that he saw him
sign it, and gives details and circumstances. The evidence
satisfies us that the notice was signed by Fuller. It also appears that the deed to Smith was fully read to, and understood
by, Fuller before he signed it. The recitals in the deed, which
were true, gave Fuller all the information it was necessary he
should have, as a basis for his signature to it.
We come now to consider the alleged inadequate price obtained at the sale. In May, 1872, Stearns sold the land to
Linkins at 45 cents per square foot. In April, 1873, Mrs.
Derby purchased at $1 per square foot. At the time Mrs.
Derby purchased, and during the summer of 1873, speculation
in real estate in the neighborhood of this land was rife, and
prices were high, but in the fall of 1873 came a revulsion, and
a depression of prices, which continued until after the sale in
this case. In March, 1880, Smith sold a little over 15,000 feet
of the land to Page for $14,200, or about 92 cents per square
foot. The price which Smith paid was a little over 35 cents
per square foot. But, in view of the efforts which had been
made by the plaintiff to sell the property or to raise money on
it, and of all the facts of the case, it cannot be said that the
property sold for less than it could have been reasonably expected to bring at public auction at the time. Smith made
the first bid, at $4,500. The bidding reached $6,000 by $500
bids, and then either $6,500 or $6,900 by $100 bids, every
alternate bid being Smith's. The $6,500 bid or the $6,900 bid
was made by Mr. John W. Thompson. Then Smith bid $7,000.
Latta, who was present, endeavored to induce Mr. Thompson
to bid more, but he would not. Shailer, the person who visited
Washington by the plaintiff's desire, was present at the sale.
It was held at the usual hour of the day for such sales. The
evidence shows that Smith immediately offered the property
at his bid to several persons, including Mr. Thompson, but no

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cour.

one would take it. We see no ground for setting aside the
sale because of inadequacy of price. The bill in the case was
filed a few days after Smith had sold to Page. The period of
depression had passed. The price had gone up again to nearly
what Mrs. Derby had paid. But, the fact of depression in
value is no ground in itself for not upholding a sale under the
trust deed, nor is a subsequent rise in value a ground for setting aside the sale. Those who speculate in real estate on
credit take the risk of depression in value at the time the credit
expires, and those who buy for cash in time of depression are
entitled to the benefit of a subsequent rise in value.
The principal question discussed at the bar was the validity
of the sale in the absence of Fuller. Latta, the other trustee,
was present. No objection at the time of the sale to the absence of Fuller was made on behalf of the plaintiff, although
she actually knew of the time and place of sale, and in consequence sent Shailer to Washington, and he attended the sale.
The question of the necessity of the presence of a sole trustee
at a sale under a deed of trust like the present was before the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia,
in 1838, in Connolly v. Belt, 5 Cranch 0.0.405, on a bill filed
by the grantor in the deed of trust to set aside a sale under it.
It was contended that the sale was void because the sole trustee was not present, though he was represented at it by an
agent. The objection was not made at the sale, but was raised
by a bill filed by Belt, the debtor, against the creditor, and
Semmes, the trustee, and the purchaser. The court was held
by Chief Judge Cranch and Assistant Judge Morsell. The
case of Beye, v. Deaves, 2 Johns. Ch. 154, was cited to it as
holding that, under a statute of New York, which required all
sales of mortgaged premises, under a decree, to be made by a
master, a sale was invalid which was made by a competent
agent of the master, in his absence. Chief Judge Cranch says,
in delivering the opinion of the court: "Neither that statute
nor that case is applicable to the present case, which is a sale
under a common deed of trust. The time, place, terms and
conditions -were such as were deemed by the trustee most for
the interest of all the parties concerned in the said sale, as ap-

SMITH v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

pears by the answer of the trustee; and a sale made by an
agent of the trustee, according to the terms and conditions,
and at the time and place prescribed, is a sale by the trustee,
there being no law requiring him to be personally present at
the auction. No objection having been made by Mr. Belt, or his
friends, on account of th6 absence of Mr. Semmes, the trustee,
who was represented by Mr. C. Cox, as his agent, at the sale,
and their suffering the sale to go on, is, I think, a waiver of
the objection, if it would have been otherwise valid. But the
objection, in itself, is of no avail" We are not advised of any
decision since that one, in the District of Columbia, holding to
the contrary, until the one now before us. It was made nearly
50 years ago, and has probably been followed in some cases as
a rule of property, which it is; and the fact that, in view of
it, no statute has been passed by Congress requiring the personal presence of a sole trustee, or of both trustees, at a sale
under a deed of trust, is persuasive to show that the absence
of a sole trustee, or of one of two trustees, ought not to be
held, of itself, to vitiate a sale. Where there is a statute requiring a thing to be done by a known and responsible public
officer, it may well be held that he must do it in person. But
in a sale under a deed of trust like the present, where private
persons appoint other private persons, their heirs and assigns, to
make the sale, then if the notice of sale is given, and the deed
is executed, by the sole trustee or the two trustees, and the sale
is fairly conducted, and no ground otherwise appears for setting it aside, the mere fact that the sale is not attended by the
sole trustee, or that it is made in the absence of one or even
both of two trustees, is not alone a sufficient ground for holding the sale invalid. The absent trustee or trustees may, after
the sale is advertised, become ill, or be called to a distance, not
to return for some time. The creditor has rights as well as
the debtor, and where, in the case of two trustees, the sale is conducted, as in this case, in pursuance of a notice signed by both
of them, conforming to the deed of trust, and previously publicly advertised, and one of them is present, and the sale is
fairly and properly made, and the proceedings under the deed
of trust are otherwise regular, and both of the trustees after-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

wards execute such a deed as was executed in this case, there
is no ground of public policy or private right which requires it
to be held that the absence of the second trustee vitiates the
sale.
After the sale, and on the day on which the deed was executed to Smith, he made a settlement with Latta for the purchase. He elected to consider it as one wholly for cash. This
he had a right to do, notwithstanding the terms of sale. No
duty of the trustees or of Smith to the plaintiff was violated by
this course. The amount of the note and interest was $5,739.
25. The expenses of sale, commissions, taxes, and interest
on them were put down at $2,086.78. Deducting this from
the $7,000 left $4,913.22 to be credited on the $5,739.25, and
that amount was credited on the note that day, leaving a deficiency of $826.03. Even if something less ought to have been
charged against the $7,000, leaving the deficiency less than
$826.03, it does not appear that there was not a deficiency.
The decree of the court in general term, made .MTarch20,1882, is
reversed,and the cause is remanded to that court, with directions to reverse, with costs, the decree of the court in special
term made April 12, 1881, and to dismiss the bill of complaint,with costs.
MR. TusTioE FiELD, dissenting.

I am unable to assent to the judgment of this court, as I do
not agree to the conclusion reached on the question of fact as
to the previous concurrence of Fuller, one qf the trustees
of the property, in the notice of sale. He testifies that he
never authorized the sale; never heard of it; nor did Smith
ever speak to him on the subject until two weeks after it had
taken place, when Smith came to his house and got him, then
sick in bed, to sign the deed. He also testifies that the signature "1TohnF. Fuller" appended to the notice of sale is not
in his handwriting.
Under these circumstances I cannot but conclude that Mr.
Smith is mistaken in his recollection, and that he has confounded Faller's subsequent assent to the execution of the
deed with a supposed previous assent to the notice of sale.

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
Syllabus.

Fuller's ratification of the proceedings by joining in the deed
does not remove, in my judgment, this objection, as it is evident
that it was executed in ignorance of all the circumstances under
which the sale took place. I agree with the court below that,
"if a trustee can ratify the acts of his co-trustee, it can only be
upon consultation with him, and upon full information as to
all the facts; " and it is clear that this information was want-

ing in the present case.

KENTUCKY RAILROAD TAX CASES.
CICINNATI, NEW ORLEANS & TEXAS PACIFIC

RAILROAD COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.
LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. SAME.
CHESAPEAKE, OHIO & SOUTHWESTERN RAIL-

ROAD COMPATY v. SAM.
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.
Argued October 16, 19, 1885.-Decided November 16, 1885.
A State statute for raising public revenue by the assessment and collection of
taxes, which gives notice of the proposed assessment to an owner of property to be affected, by requiring him at a time named to present a statement of his property, with his estimate of its value, to a designated official
charged with the duty of receiving the statement; which fixes time and
place for public sessions of other officials, at which this statement and estimate are to be considered, where the official valuation is to be made, and
when and where the party interested has the right to be present and to be
heard; and which affords him opportunity, in a suit at law for the collection of the tax, to judicially contest the validity of the proceeding, does not
necessarily deprive him of his property without "due process of law,"
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States.
vOL. cxv-21

