OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

BOHLEN v. ARTHURS & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNTEMD STATES FO]1 THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Submitted November 12, 1885.-Decided November 23, 1885.

A tenant in common cannot maintain replevin against a cotenant, because
they have each and equally a right of possession; and that rule is recognized in Pennsylvania.

Where, under an agreement for the purchase of an undivided interest in land
to be conveyed to the purchaser on his paying for it, he acquires no right
to cut timber on the land without the consent of the owners of the remaining interest, who are tenants in common with him of the land, if he cuts
such timber, and removes it, and it is taken possession of by such owners
of the remaining interest, he has no such right of possession in it as will
sustain an action of replevin by him against them.

The Pennsylvania act of May 15, 1871, No.249, see. 6, which provides as
follows : " In all actions of replevin, now pending or hereafter brought, to
recover timber, lumber, coal or other property severed from realty, the
plaintiff shall be entitled to recover, notwithstanding the fact that the title
to the land from which said property was severed may be in dispute: Provided, said plaintiff shows title in himself at the time of the severance," has
no operation as between tenants in common.

This was an action of replevin, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, to
recover a quantity of square white pine timber logs, in rafts.
At the trial the court directed a verdict for the defendants, and,
after a judgment accordingly, the plaintiff brought this writ of
error. The defendants who pleaded, setting up property in themselves, were one Arthurs, assignee in bankruptcy of Baum and
Carrier, and one McClure. Each party, plaintiff and defendants,
claimed title to the timber under Baum and Carrier and one
Osborne, who had title, before December 18, 1872, to the lands
from which the timber was taken. ' On that day, Baum, Carrier and Osborne made a written agreement with one Phillips,
to the effect that they would convey to him, his heirs and assigns, by warranty deed, in fee simple, the undivided one-half
of certain specified lands, in the counties of Clearfield and Jef-

ferson, in the State of Pennsylvania, on his paying the con-

BOHILEN v. ARTHUR.
Statement of FacNts.

sideration, and performing the covenants, mentioned in the
agreement. These were that he should pay them $125 per
acre for such undivided one-half, amounting to $206,000, "payment thereof to be made out of the proceeds of said lands, when
and as soon as moneys shall be realized from the sale of any part
of said lands, or from the sale of timber thereon, or coal or other
minerals therein contained, or lumber manufactured upon said
premises in mills thereon to be erected, as hereinafter mentioned
and provided for." Phillips was to pay no interest, and to have
the right to pay at any time the consideration money for the
whole or any part of the lands and receive a deed. Phillips
agreed "to advance and pay the one-half of such amounts of
money as may be necessary to construct and erect a first-class
saw-mill or saw-mills, and such fixtures and machinery appurtenant thereto, and such other and additional improvements,"
as he, Phillips, might "from time to time consider and determine to be advantageous and necessary for the profitable and
full development" of the lands. Then followed these clauses:
"And the said saw-mills, machinery, and other improvements
shall be located on such parts of said lands as may be mutually
agreed upon by the said parties of the first and second parts
herein named, holding as tenants in common, and not as partners. And it is hereby expressly covenanted and agreed, that
the said Wim. Phillips, party of the second part named in this
agreement, shall have the right and power to control all improvements made or to be made on said property, and to direct and manage the development of the lands herein described
and held by said parties hereto as tenants in common, and not
as partners."
Phillips died, and his administrators in June, 1874, assigned
to the plaintiff and one Whitney all the interest of Phillips
under the agreement of December, 1872, and in and to the
lands described therein. At the same time, the heirs-at-law of
Phillips quit-claimed to the plaintiff and Whitney the undivided
one-half of the said lands, so agreed to be conveyed to Phillips.
The timber in question was cut and taken from those lands.
Under a contract between the plaintiff and Whitney, and one
McCracken, made in September, 1876, the latter agreed to cut

OCTOBER TERM, 188.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

from the ]ands a specified quantity of square pine timber, for a
stipulated price, and deliver it to the plaintiff and Whitney at
Pittsburg. In April, 1877, Whitney assigned -to the plaintiff
all his interest in that timber. McCracken, in pursuance of
this contract, cut from the lands the timber in question. It
was taken by the marshal under the writ in this suit, in April,
18'7, and was bonded by the defendants and delivered to
them.
The foregoing facts being proved at the trial, the court instructed the jury that the plaintiff had failed to show sufficient
property in the timber to sustain replevin, and directed a
verdict for the defendants, to which direction the plaintiff excepted.
MAr. Robert Arthur8 and rf.George Shira&,J'., for plaintiff
in error.--Under the provisions of the agreement it was Phillips'
duty to contract with third parties to cut and market the timber. His possession was that of a tenant in common, and his
duty was to develop the property, and provide means for it by
cutting and marketing the timber. Against third persons,
such possession gave Phillips a title to the lumber cut and on
its way to market which would sustain an action of replevin or
trover. The act of assembly of May, 15, 1871, 2 Purdon's
Digest, 1266, provides in terms that "in all actions of replevin
now pending or hereafter brought to recover timber, lumber
coal, or other property severed from realty, the plaintiff shall
be entitled to recover, notwithstanding the fact that the title
to the land frdm which said property was severed may be in
dispute; provided, said plaintiff shows title in himself at the
time of severance." Such legislation was deemed necessary because the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in several cases, had
held that title to land could not be tried in and by transitory
actions like replevin and trover. lfather v. Trinity Church,
3 S. & R. 509; Brown v. Caldwell, 10 S. & R. 114.
But, in the present case, the record and evidence disclose no
dispute about or concerning the title under the contract. Phillips had a right of possession. His agreement was to cut and
market the lumber. The case of Harlanv. Harlan,15 Penn.

BOHLEN v. ARTHURS.
Opinion of the Cour.

St. 507, is applicable. It was there held that replevin would
lie by a party having a right of possession of real estate to recover possession of lumber cut thereupon. No reason is seen
why the title of Phillips to this lumber could be disturbed by
the tenants in common, or any one claiming under them. It
does not appear that the contract had been rescinded. The
rights and estate of Phillips thereunder had, by his death, devolved upon his personal representatives and heirs, and by
deed and assignments had become vested in Bohlen, the plaintiff.
.Mr.
John Dalzell for defendants in error.
Mu.JusTicE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
It is contended, for the plaintiff, that Phillips acquired a
right to the possession of the lands as a tenant in common, and
a right to cut and market the timber, with a view to paying
the consideration for the purchase ; that such rights had passed
to the plaintiff; and that a verdict for the plaintiff should have
been directed, or else the case should have been left to the jury
under proper instructions.
The most that was shown by the evidence was, that the
plaintiff claimed title to the timber as being a tenant in common with the defendants of the lands from which it was cut
(it being stated in the bill of exceptions that both plaintiff and
defendants claimed under Baum, Carrier and Osborne); and
that the suit was against the defendants, being such tenants in
common with the plaintiff, and in possession of the timber.
It is a well settled principle, that, to maintain an action of
replevin, a person must have not only some right of property
but the right of possession. Hence, a tenant in common cannot maintain replevin against a co-tenant, because they have
each and equally a right of possession. This rule is recognized
in Pennsylvania. In Filson v. Gray, 8 Watts, 25, 35, it is
said: "The defendant may plead property in the plaintiff and
himself, and, if true, it must not only defeat the plaintiff in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

writ, but entitle the defendant to a return of the property; because, the latter, having had the possession of it, coupled with
an interest, which makes his case the stronger, until improperly
deprived thereof by the sheriff, under the plaintiff's writ, which
he had no right to use for such. purpose, has a right to be
placed in statu quo, that is, restored to the possession of the
property as the joint owner thereof."
The terms of the agreement with Phillips did not give him
any title to, or right of possession in, any timber which might
be cut from the premises. He was to have a deed of an undivided half of the lands when he should pay the consideration
and perform the covenants. The purchase money could be
paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the lands, or out of the
sale of timber, coal or minerals, or lumber manufactured on the
premises in mills to be erected thereon, as provided for in the
agreement. But no land or timber could be sold unless the
owners of the other undivided half of the lands should join
with Phillips in a sale, and then one-half of the purchase money
would belong absolutely to the former, and only the other half
to Phillips, to be applied on his purchase. There was nothing
in the agreement which gave Phillips any right to cut timber
on the premises without the consent of the other parties, and
their consent that McCracken or the plaintiff might cut and
remove the timber is not shown.
The plaintiff cites the Pennsylvania statute of May 15,1871,
No. 249, Sess. Laws, 1871, p. 268; 2 Purdon's Digest, 1266,
ยง 6, which provides as follows: "In all actions of replevin,
now pending or hereafter brought, to recover timber, lumber,
coal or other property severed from realty, the plaintiff shall
be entitled to recover, notwithstanding the fact that the title
to the land from which said property was severed may be in
dispute: Provided, said plaintiff shows title in himself at the
time of the severance." This statute has no operation as between tenants in common, but applies only to actions against
third persons; and its object is only to prevent a defendant in
areplevin suit of the character mentioned, from setting up a
dispute as to the title to the land, between the plaintiff and a
person other than the defendant, if the plaintiff shows a title

KURTZ v. MOFFITT.
Statement of Facts.

to the land, as against the defendant, at the time of the severance. Besides, the plaintiff here showed no title at all to the
land, in himself.
Judgment ajfirred.

IKURTZ v. MOFFITT & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
SAN FRANCISCO AND STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

MOFFITT & Another v. ]KURTZ.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted October 14, 1885.-Decided November 2.3,1885.

A writ of habeas corpus is not removable from a State court into a Circuit
Court of the United States under the act of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, ยง 2.
A police officer of a State, or a private citizen, has no authority as such, without any warrant or military order, to arrest and detain a deserter from the
army of the United States.

A writ of habeas corpus was issued on April 8, 1885, by and
returnable before a judge of the Superior Court of the City
and County of San Francisco, in the State of California, addressed to John Moffitt and T. W. Fields, citizens of that
State, upon the petition of Stephen Kurtz, a citizen of Pennsylvania, alleging that he was by them unlawfully imprisoned
and restrained of his liberty, inasmuch as they had arrested
him as a deserter from the army of the United States, and
had no warrant or authority to arrest him, and were not officers of the United States.
Moffitt and Fields, at the time of entering their appearance
in that court, filed a petition to remove the case into the Circuit Court of the United States, because the parties were citizens of different States, and because the suit involved a ques-

