LEONARD v. OZARK LAND COMPANY.
Statement of Faets.

LEONYARD v. OZARK LAND COMPANY.
LEONARD v. CHATFIELD, Trustee.
ORIGINAL MOTIONS MADE
APPEAL

IN CASES PENDING

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

IN

THIS COURT ON

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOP THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted November 16,1835.-Decided November 23, 1883.

It is settled in this court that injunctions ordered by final decree in equity in
the courts below are not vacated by appeal.
The judge in the court below who heard the case is empowered by Equity
Rule 93, when allowing an appeal from a final decree granting or dissolving
an injunction, to suspend or modify the injunction pending appeal, and
upon such terms as may be considered proper.

This was a motion for a modification of the supersedeas, or
more properly, perhaps, for a modification of the injunction
contained in the decree appealed from. The bill prayed,
among other things, for an injunction restraining "the defendant, Leonard, from cutting or removing any trees, logs or timber, or any staves manufactured from any trees or timber, from
any of the lands" in controversy. In the decree thd defendants were "perpetually enjoined from cutting or removing any
timber from said lands." The appeal operated as a supersedeas, it having been taken within sixty days after the disposition of the motion, which was made during the same term, to
vacate the decree, and the bond being in the form required for
that purpose. The decree was rendered by the judge of the
District Court of Arkansas, sitting as circuit judge. The same
judge allowed the appeal, and, in doing so, directed that it
should "not operate to suspend or affect so much of the decree
as enjoins the defendants from cutting or otherwise
trespassing on the lands in controversy,

.

.

.

or removing

staves or timber cut thereon." The appellant moves this
court "to vacate so much of the decree of the court below
granting an appeal and accepting appeal bond as qualifies the
said appeal and prevents the same from superseding the decree
voL. cxv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for the Motion.

rendered for the appellees, and especially so much of the said
decree granting said appeal as prevents said appellant, J. W.
Leonard, from removing the staves made on the land in controversy before service or entry of the decree in favor of the
appellees."
.r. T. . Brown for the motion.-I. Does the appeal in
these causes operate as a suspension of the entire decree?
"The supersedeas attaches to so much of the final sentence
as determines the ultimate rights of the party." Bryan v.
Bates, 12 Allen, 213; .Yauer v. Thomas, 13 Allen, 574; Fleming v. Clark, 12 Allen, 191, cited by the successful counsel
in the Slaughter-House Cases, 10 Wall. 273, 283-4, and recognized by this court. The bills in the cases now under consideration on the motion were filed to remove clouds from
the alleged titles of the complainants in the bills. This was
the only relief sought by final decree. The bill prayed for
the issuance of "a writ of injunction." IBut this, by the very
terms of the pleading, was a preliminary injunction, to stop
yendente lite the "cutting of trees and the removing" of
"trees, logs or timber or staves." It was no part of the final
relief specifically prayed for. This court decided against the
motion for restoration of injunction in the Slaughter-HouseCases
on the ground that the record showed that the status Puo existing "just prior to" the final decree of the court from which
the appeal was taken had been preserved, and that the court
from which appeal had been taken had done nothing since
appeal to execute its decree. What the appellant asks is just
this and nothing more. The status quo "just prior to the
passing of the final decree" was without injunction or restraint
on the appellant in the use of the lands in controversy. The
injunction or restraint comes alone with the final decree originating with it. The complainants, seeking decree against appellant, looked to this very use to relieve them of the necessity
of paying him the tax liens which he had removed from the
lands.
The judge below seemed to think that the case of iJovey v.
.e7cDonald, 109 U. S. 150, which is cited by him in his opinion

LEONARD v. OZARK LAND COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

justifying his decree as to the operation of the supersedeas,
supports him and reaffirms the Slaughter-Hou8e Cases. It is
respectfully submitted that this last case is not in the line of
the Slaughter-1oueCases. It rested on certain peculiarities of
judicial administration of the courts in the District of Columbia,

from one of which this appeal was taken. The injunction was
preliminary in that case, and was to only continue until further
order of the court. It was an injunction obtained as auxiliary
to preserve a fund until certain rights could be determined. By
the terms of the order granting the injunction it could not be
extended beyond the discretion of the court granting it.

It is therefore respectfully submitted that the injunctive part
of the decree in these cases is reached by the appeal, and as
much superseded as any other part of the decree, and the
order of the Circuit Court attempting to except this feature of
the decree from the operation of the appeal is most irregular
and oppressive. Of course it is to be understood from the
context, that the "removing any timber" in the final decree is
connected with the "cutting," and refers only to the timber
cut after the decree.
II. If, however, the legal effect of the appeal is not a supersedure of the injunctive part of the decree, yet appellant may
still ask of this court such an order as to the decree pending
the appeal as will relieve the appellant of unnecessary hardship,
and will secure the rights of appellees. This power will hardly
be denied to this court, especially when the application is for
"such measures as may be necessary to preserve the condition
of things which existed just prior to the passing of the final
decree." This much was conceded by the very able counsel
who resisted the motion in the Slaughter-HouseCases and recognized by this court. The application of appellant does not extend farther. IRule 93 cannot limit the power of this court in
the exercise of the discretion invoked by this motion.
Mr. John B. Janes opposing.

Mn. CHI.EF

WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court. After stating the facts in the language above reported,
he continued:
JUSTICE

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The injunction ordered by the final decree was not vacated
by the appeal. Slaughter-Houe Case8, 10 Wall. 273, 297;
.fovey v. McDonald, 109 U. S. 150, 161. It is true that in
some of the Slaughter-House Cases the appeal was from a decree making perpetual a preliminary injunction which had been
granted at an earlier stage of the case, but the fact of the preliminary injunction had nothing to do with the decision, which
was "that neither an injunction nor a decree dissolving an injunction is reversed or nullified by an appeal or writ of error
before the cause is heard in this court." This doctrine, in the
general language here stated, was distinctly reaffirmed in Hlovey
v. MoDonald, and it clearly refers to the injunction contained
in the decree appealed from, without reference to whether
that injunction was in perpetuation of a former order to the
same effect, or was then for the first time granted. The injunction, therefore, which was granted by the final decree in
this case, is in full force, notwithstanding the appeal.
Construing the injunction as granted in connection with the
averments in the bill, the prayer for relief, and the findings in
the decree, we think it restrains the appellees from removing
the staves manufactured from timber cut on the land, as well
as the timber in its unmanufactured state, and the order made
by the judge when he allowed the appeal is in reality nothing
more than notice to the appellant that such was the effect of
his decree. It was not, and was not intended to be, an enlargement of the original scope of the injunction, but. under
the circumstances, a justifiable precaution against a possible
misunderstanding by the appellant of the extent and effect of
the decree appealed from.
This court no doubt has the power to modify an injunction
granted by a decree below in advance of a final hearing of an
appeal on its merits. An application to that effect was made
to us at the October Term, 1878, in the case of the Sandusky
Tool Co. v. Comstock [not reported], and finding that such a
practice, if permitted, would oftentimes involve an examination
of the whole case, and necessarily take much time, we promulgated the present Equity Rule 93, which is as follows:
"When an appeal from a final decree in an equity suit,

ST. LOUIS, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. McGEE.

469

Opinion of the Court.

granting or dissolving an injunction, is allowed by a justice or
judge who took part in the decision of the cause, he may, in
his discretion, at the time of such allowance, make an order
suspending or modifying an injunction during the pendency of
the appeal, upon such terms as to bond or otherwise, as he
may consider proper for the security of the rights of the opposite party."
Here the judge who heard the case allowed the appeal, and
instead of suspending or modifying the injunction, he took occasion to give special notice that it was to continue in force,
and if the facts are correctly stated in his opinion, it was quite
proper he should do so.
The motion isdenied.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. McGEE.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Argued November 11, 18M.-Decided November 23, 1885.
In order that an act of Congress should work a reversion to the United States
for condition broken of lands granted by them to a State to aid in internal
improvements, the legislation must directly, positively, and with freedom
from all doubt or ambiguity manifest the intention of Congress to reassert
title and resume possession.
No such intention is manifested in the act of July 28, 1866, 14 Stat. 838, so
far as it affects the lands granted to the States of Arkansas and Missouri
by the act of February 9, 1853, 10 Stat. 155, except as to mineral lands.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
_3fr. A. B. Browne [iMr. A. 7'. B'ritton and -Mr. Tho'na8 J.
Portiswere with him on the brief] for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment brought by the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company against Hugh
McGee, to recover the possession of the N. J of N. E. - sec. 17,
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WArTE

