PHILIPPI v. PHILIPPE.
Statement of Facts.

PIEILIPPI v. PRILIPPE & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
Argued April 22, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

Although it is true that when the relation of trustee and cestui que trust exists
and is admitted by the trustee, lapse of time is no bar to relief in equity
against the trustee in favor of the cestui gue trust, yet, when the trustee
repudiates the trust in unequivocal words, and claims to hold the trust
property as his own, and such repudiation and claim are brought to the
notice of the beneficiary in such manner that he is called upon to assert
his equitable rights, the statute of limitation begins to run from the time
when they thus come to his knowledge.
In Alabama, even in the absence of a statute of limitation, if twenty years are
allowed to elapse from the time when proceedings could have been instituted for the settlement of a trust, without the commencement of such proceedings, and there has been no recognition, within that period, of the
trust as continuing and undischarged, a presumption of settlement would
arise, operating as a continuing bar.
When the lapse of twenty years raises in Alabama the presumption of payment
and satisfaction of an equitable claim, the provision of § 2, Ordinance 5, of
the Constitutional Convention, adopted September 27, 1865, that "in computing the time necessary to create the bar of the statutes of limitation and
non-claim, the time elapsing between the 11th of January, 1861, and the
passage of this ordinance shall not be estimated" does not affect the presumption unless within that period there has been some recognition of the
liability which it is sought to enforce.

The appellant was the plaintiff in the Cirauit Court. The
original bill was filed October 20, 1879. It was demu'rred to
and the demurrer sustained. The plaintiff having obtained
leave to amend, filed an amended bill, in which he stated his
case substantially as follows:
The plaintiff is the son of Angelo Mx. Philippi, deceased.
Some time previous to the year 1845 the said Angelo lf. Philippi and Antonio Philippe, his brother, one of the defendants,
were equal partners in carrying on in the City of Mobile, in
the State of Alabama, a boarding-house and saloon, in which
business they prospered. In 1845 Angelo decided to revisit

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

his native country, the Island of Corsica. Before leaving
Mobile he placed all his affairs, business, money and property
in the keeping of his brother Antonio to manage for him, and
the latter having accepted the trust, Angelo left the United
States and went to Corsica. Antonio, after the departure of
his brother, continued the partnership business for the joint
benefit of both. He managed his brother's affairs and property
and the partnership business with such skill and success that in
May, 1847, he had in his possession the sum of $10,000 belonging to Angelo, upon which he agreed to pay interest. For the
year ending November, 1847, the profits of the joint business
were $8,000, and the joint income from their slaves for the
same period was $4,500. For a time Antonio kept true
accounts of these profits and incomes, fixing Angelo's share
therein. He invested these accumulated gains of himself and
his brother, Angelo, in real estate, taking, however, the titles
in his own name.
In the year 1848 Antonio held, as the joint property of himself and Angelo, six houses and lots in the City of Mobile,
valued at $26,000; subsequently to 1848 he bought a large
amount of real estate, which he paid for out of the profit and
incomes derived from the trust funds and from the slaves, and
business jointly owned by himself and his brother.
During their long separation the relations of the brothers
continued harmonious, and a correspondence was kept up
between them.
By letters dated respectively, May 5, 1817, and March 7,
1848, written in the Italian language, addressed by Antonio to
Angelo, translations of which, marked Exhibits D and E, are
attached to the bill, the former acknowledged the trust.
Angelo returned from Europe in December, 1856. Antonio
did not deny the admissions made in the letters of May 5, 1847,
and March 7, 1848, or repudiate the trusts therein acknowledged, but promised to render a true and just account of the
partnership and trust affairs to Angelo, and to make a final
settlement of the same; but he delayed doing so, from time to
time, and never made said statement of account or final settlement. Subsequently, by papers marked Exhibits F and G, at-

PHILIPPI v. PHILIPPE.
Statement of Facts.

tached to the bill as parts thereof, Antonio expressly acknowledged the trust.
Angelo being of foreign birth, and imperfectly acquainted
with the English language, and being also a man of few associates, and those few foreigners, ignorant as he himself was of the
English language, never became fully informed of his rights
and remedies under the laws of this country against his brother
Antonio, and was averse to litigating with his brother, and
repeatedly declared that the thought of a lawspit with his
brother was repulsive to him, and chose rather to hope that
his brother would ultimately fulfil his promise to account to
him and render to him what was his due.
Upon his return from Europe in December, 1856, Angelo
was possessed of but scanty immediate means, whilst the defendant, Antonio, had at his disposal much wealth. Angelo
remained in Mobile after his said return until his death, which
occurred May 1, 1874, and was in a condition of p-verty, and
at times almost of distress, and died leaving his family in want.
The translation of the letter of May 5, 1847 (Exhibit D),
written by Antonio to Angelo, contained the following passage: "2. Further, the certificate made by the hand of a notary as (that) I hold 10,000 dollars of thine in my hands, which
I pay thee interest." This is the only part of the letter pertinent to the case. The translation of the letter of March 7,
1848 (Exhibit E), contains the following passage, which is the
only one referring to the present controversy:
"Now let us speak a little of our affairs. I will tell thee that
I have arranged the accounts the first of November, on which
the profit of the affairs which we hold together are 8,000 dollars; 4,000 dollars I have marked them for thee to thy credit,
which I wish that thou make me know what I must do with
it. If thou wishest that I send them to thee, or wishest that I
should do business with them for thy account. Since thou hast
left I have made purchases; the house in which I am, 13,000
dollars. I have had a very beautiful one built on Dauphin
Street, cost 7,000 dollars; bought one in the same street, which
thou knowest, where Colobo keeps his bar-room, cost 6,00
dollars, thus counts six houses which we hold. The negroes give

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

me of interest the sum of 4,500 dollars a year without our
trade. Thus, dear brother, thou knowest well what is mine
has been and always 'vill be thine, and thou I am persuaded
thy sentiments are the same. For this I wish to tell thee thou
hast no need that the interest should keep thee melancholy."
Exhibit F, appended to the bill, is a copy of a petition filed
by Antonio, in a suit brought againit him in the Chancery
Court of Mobile County by the administrator and heirs of
Angelo, to enforce the same trust set up in this case. Antonio
in this petition, which was under oath, after denying that he
was indebted to his brother Angelo at the time of his death, in
any amount whatever, stated that the bill filed against him required him to admit or deny the making of a writing under his
hand acknowledging the trust set up in the bill; and as the
writing was alleged to have been made more than thirty years
before, he could not answer the averment of his having executed a writing of the effect charged without seeing it, and
prayed that the plaintiffs in that case might be required to
submit the same to his inspection.
Exhibit F, attached to the amended bill, was an affidavit
made and filed in the present cause by Antonio, in which he
stated that it was wholly untrue that he was in any manner
indebted to the heirs of Angelo, as charged in the bill; that
Angelo returned from Europe to Mobile in the year 1853, a
fact not mentioned in the bill, and that while so in Mobile, and
before he left again, a full settlement was made between him
and the affiant of all matters of account, and that in such
settlement a balance of over $900 was found to be due the
affiant from Angelo, which he had never paid. The affidavit
further stated that about the year 1872 Angelo had a claim
upon an insurance company for property destroyed by fire,
which became a subject of litigation; that, being destitute of
means, Angelo applied to affiant to lend him money to support
his family until he could recover the insurance money, and
affiant lent him $800 on his agreement to repay the loan out
of the insurance money when collected; that Angelo compromised his demand against the insurance company for
$3,000, and his creditors set up their claims against the fund

PHILIPPI v. PHILIPPE.
Statement of Facts.

in the Chancery Court, and that in that proceeding Angelo
filed the following affidavit:
"That he is entirely destitute of property, except the money
and proceeds coming to him from the said policy of insurance.
That it constituted all the property he had in the world, except a few articles of household furniture and wearing apparel
for his family, which he is advised by law is exempt from execution and levy. And this affiant," Angelo, "now shows to
the court that he is advised by counsel that he is entitled to
one thousand dollars as exempt from attachment, levy, or
garnishment, and he claims this amount shall be left to him unaffected by the creditors or any of their proceedings in this
cause," &c.
The affidavit of Antonio (Exhibit F) further stated that he
received out of said insurance money, on his claim for the
money lent to Angelo, the 'sum of $329.27, and the other creditors got a likepro 2'ata share out of the same fund.
Antonio Philippe, Angela F. Philippi, individually and as
administratrix of the estate of Angelo M. Philippi, and the
brothers and sisters of the plaintiff, children and heirs of Angelo M. Philippi, were made defendants to the bill. The prayer
was for a settlement of the partnership, and an account of its
property, profits and gains, and for a settlement of the trust,
and that Antonio Philippe might be decreed to pay over to
Angela F. Philippi, the administratrix, the one half of all the
gains'and profits of the partnership, with interest, and to de
liver to the plaintiff and to the defendants, heirs at law of
Angelo M. Philippi, all the real estate purchased by him in his
own name, with the trust funds belonging to Angelo, or with
his share of the profits of the partnership, and for a partition
between Antonio Philippe and the heirs of Angelo M. Philippi
of all lands held by the former in his own name, purchased
with the joint funds of himself and Angelo M. Philippi, and for
other relief.
The defendant, Antonio Philippe, demurred to the bill, and
for grounds of demurrer, besides others, alleged that the cause
of action set out in the bill was stale and barred by the statute
of limitations of Alabama, and that the plaintiff, being merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

one of the heirs at law of said Angelo M. Philippi, was not
entitled to the relief prayed in the bill. The Circuit Court
sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill, and the plaintiff
appealed.
. r. FreZeick G. Bromberg for appellant.
-Y. John A. Campbell for appellees.
MR. JUSTiCE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

He

stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
We think that, upon the face of the amended bill, it is apparent that the plaintiff is not entitled to relief.
It appears from Exhibit G that Antonio Philippe contended
that in the year 1853 he made a full settlement with Angelo,
his brother, and that in such settlement there was a balance
due to him from Angelo of over $900, which the latter had
never paid. There is no averment in the bill that after 1853
there was anything due to Angelo from Antonio Philippe on
account of the trust property or partnership business. It is
tine the bill alleges that in 1856, when Angelo returned to
M obile from Corsica, Antonio promised to render an account
of the partnership and trust affairs, and make a final settlement of the same, but this falls short of an acknowledgment
that there was anything due to Angelo, either on account of
the trust or partnership property. The bill is bare of any averment that on a settlement of the trust and the partnership
there would have been anything due to Angelo. The complaint of the bill is simply that, upon the return of Angelo M.
Philippi to Mobile in 1856, Antonio promised to render an
account and make a final settlement of their joint affairs, but
had never done so.
But aside from this defect in the bill, we think it sufficiently
appears on its face that, if any ground for relief is therein set
forth, it is stale and prescribed by lapse of time, and therefore
not entitled to the favor of a court of equity.
Conceding what is contended for by the counsel for plaintiff
that the statute of limitations does not run against an express

PHILIPPI v. PHILIPPE.
Opinion of the Court.

trust, it must be borne in mind that this rule is subject to the
qualification that when the trust is repudiated by clear and
unequivocal words and acts of the trustee who claims to hold
the trust property as his own, and such repudiation and claim
are brought to the notice of the beneficiary in such manner
that he is called upon to assert his equitable rights, the statute
of limitations will begin to run from the time such repudiation
and claim came to the knowledge of the beneficiary. Gratz v.
Provost, 6 Wheat. 481; Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 333; Badger
v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87; -Yane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Oh. 90;
Bright v. Legerton, 2 De G. F. & J. 606; Wedderburn v. Wedderburn, 4 Myl. & Cr. 41, 52; )feriam v. Hassam, 14 Allen,
516, 522; Attorney General v. Federal Street 2eetling House,
3 Gray, 1; Williams v. First PresbyterianSociety, 1 Ohio St.
478; Turner v. Smith, 11 Tex. 620.
The rule applicable to cases of this kind has been declared
by the Supreme Court of Alabama in the case of Nettles v.
Nfettles, 67 Ala. 599, to be as follows: "It is true, as a general
rule, that when the relation of trustee and cestui que trust is
uniformly admitted to exist, and there is no assertion of adverse
claim or ownership by the trustee, lapse of time can constitute
no bar to relief. But when the trust relation is repudiated, or
time and long acquiescence have obscured the nature and
character of the trust, or the acts of the parties or other circumstances give rise to presumptions unfavorable to its continuance, in all such cases a court of equity will refuse relief
on the ground of lapse of time, and its inability to do complete
justice." See also Goodwyn v. Baldwin, 59 Ala. 127; PhillipTi
v. Phillippi,61 Ala. 41 ; 3faury v. Xfason, 8 Porter (Ala.) 211;
Lansdale v. Smith, 106 U. S.391.
It is plain upon the face of the bill that Antonio Phillippe,
from and even prior to the year 1856, claimed as his own all
the property which the bill alleged had been originally bought
with trust or partnership funds, and that the knowledge of this
claim was brought home to Angelo If. Phillippi. When the
latter returned to Mobile in 1856 he found Antonio Philippe in
the possession and enjoyment, and holding by title in his own
name, all the property charged to be trust and partnership

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

property. And, although, according to the averments of the
bill, he promised to render an account of the partnership and
trust affairs and make a final settlement thereof, he never did
so; but from the year 1856, down to the death of Angelo M.
Philippi, a period of eighteen years, and down to the commencement of this suit, a period of over twenty-three years, he
maintained his possession and used and enjoyed as his own the
property and its issues and profits. During all the period between 1856 and his death, Angelo M. Philippi lived in the same
city with Antonio Philippe in poverty, and some of the time
in distress for want of means; but, so far as appears by the
averments of the bill, the latter never paid him any part of the
proceeds of the large property which the bill avers he was
holding in trust. There could be no clearer line of conduct on
the part of Antonio Philippe to show his repudiation of the
alleged trust and his claim of title t the alleged trust property;
and all was of necessity known by Angelo.
This claim of title was acquiesced in by Angelo, for, notwithstanding his poverty and distress for want of means, so far as
appears by the bill, he never after the year 1856 requested of
Antonio a settlement of the trust or demanded from him any
part of the trust or partnership property, or the proceeds of
either, but applied for and accepted money from him as a loan,
and repaid it as far as his means would allow.
It is not averred that he was ignorant of any of the facts on
which his rights rested, or that they were fraudulently concealed from him, but merely that he was not fully informed of
his rights and remedies under the law, and the bill plainly intimates that he declined to sue his brother, not because he was
not informed of the facts of his case, but because a suit with so
near a relative was repulsive to him and because he trusted in
his brother to do him justice.
It appears from the bill that the present suit was not brought
for more than twenty-three years after the claim of title to the
alleged trust and partnership property was thus set up by the
acts of Antonio, and after an acquiescence therein of Angelo
during the residue of his life, a period of eighteeil years.
The longest period prescribed by the law of Alabama within

PHILIPPI v. PHILIPPE.
Opinion of the Court.

which actions may be brought is twenty years.
Alabama of 1876, §§ 3223 to 3231, inclusive.

Code of

And by the

provision of § 3758, the same limitations apply to suits commenced by bill in equity.
It is well settled by the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Alabama, that, even in the absence of a statute of limitations,
if twenty years are allowed to elapse from the time at which
proceedings could have been instituted for the settlement of a
trust without the commencement of such proceedings, and
there has been no recognition or admission within that period
of the trust as continuing and undischarged, a presumption of
settlement would arise operating as a positive bar. Rhodes v.
Turner, 21 Ala. 210; Blackwell v. Blackwell, 33 Ala. 57;
Worlky v. High, 40 Ala. 171; Ragland v. M norton, 41 Ala. 344;
Harrison v. Helin, 54 Ala. 552; Greenlees v. Greenlees, 62
Ala. 330 ; IZeCarty v. [Carty, 74 Ala. 546.
The same general rule has been laid down by this and other
courts as the settled law of equity jurisprudence. Elmondorf
v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Bowman v. 1-athen, 1 How. 189;
Wagner v. Baird, How. 233; Zane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns.
Ch. 90; Hovendoem v. Anne khy, 2 Sch. and Lef. 607, 636;
Ciolmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jac. and Walk. 1, 138. These
authorities are pertinent and conclusive of the present case.
We have been referred by counsel for appellant to § 2 of
ordinance No. 5, adopted on September 27, 1865, by the
Alabama Constitutional Convention, then assembled, which
provided that "in computing the time necessary to create the
bar of the statutes of limitation and non-claim, the time elapsing between the 11th of January, 1861, and the passage of this
ordinance shall not be estimated;" and it is insisted that, after
deducting the period mentioned, the defence of the staleness of
the plaintiff's claim is not sustained. The authorities already
cited are an answer to this contention. But it has been expressly held by the Supreme Court of Alabama that the time
during which the statutes of limitation were suspended by the
ordinance above mentioned is not to be deducted from the
period of twenty years, the lapse of which raises the presumption of payment and satisfaction, and creates a positive

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

bar, unless within that period there has been some recognition
of the liability which it is sought to enforce. Hfarrison v.
No such recognition
Hjeflin, X carty v. ]foCarty, ubi ujnr.
is averred.
The plaintiff's case appears, therefore, upon the face of his
bill, to be stale and unworthy the favor of a court of equity.
Decree affi med.

