OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

take the depositions of the witnesses, which application had
been denied "because of doubts expressed by said judge of his
power to grant said commission, after said bill was dismissed
and the case appealed."
_Ir. J. P. Whitemore for the motion.
.r.

H. Wells opposing.

MR. CHIEF JusTIcE WArr delivered the opinion of the
court.
This motion is denied. Equity Rule 70 has no application to
this case, and the affidavits presented do not show such facts as
render it necessary for this court to make any special order in
the premises. Under Rev. Stat. ยง 866 "any Circuit Court, upoli
application to it as a court of equity, may, according to the uses
of chancery, direct depositions to be taken in perpetuam rei
memoriam, if they relate to "any matter that may be cognizable
in any court of the United States." There is nothing in the
motion papers to indicate that the appellant may not proceed
under this statute to take and perpetuate his testimony, if he
has reason to fear that it will otherwise be lost.

CRUMP v. THURBER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Submitted April 22,1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

A suit in equity brought by 0, a citizen of one State, against a corporation of
the same State, and T, a citizen of another State, and W, to obtain a decree
that C owns shares of the stock of the corporation, standing in the name of
W, but sold by him to T, and that the corporation cancel on its books the
shares standing in the name of W, and issue to 0 certificates therefor,
cannot be removed by T into the Circuit Court of the United States, under
ยง 2 of the Act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, because the corporation
is an indispensable party to the suit, and is a citizen of the same State

with 0.

CRUMP v. THURBER.
Opinion of the Court.

The only question involved in this appeal was the rightfulness of the removal of the cause from a State court to a Circuit Court of the United States. The facts which raise the
question are stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. Ermmet Fieldand -r.

G.

. Warton for appellant.

.Ab. E. f!ore for appellee.
11R. JUSTICE BLAH FIOIRD delivered the opinion of the court
This suit was commenced by the filing in the Louisville
Chancery Court, in the city of Louisville, Kentucky, on the
26th of November, 1880, of a petition in equity, by W. H:.
Crump against James Wilson, and the Southern Dairy Company, a Kentucky corporation. The substance of the petition
was, that Crump had, under a contract with Wilson, assisted
him in selling rights under a patent which he controlled; that,
by the terms of the contract, Wilson was to receive $12,000
for the right for Kentucky, and $8,000 for the right for
Indiana, and all received above those sums for either State was
to be divided equally between Crump and Wilson; that the
rights for Kentucky and Indiana were disposed of to the
Southern Dairy Company, and 1,000 shares of its capital stock,
of $100 each, out of 2,000 shares, were issued to Wilson, in
payment for the rights, of which he had sold 100 shares for
$5,000; that he had received more in value than the $20,000;
that be refused to give to Crump any part of the stock or of
the money; that a large amount of the stock issued to Wilson
"still stood on the books of the corporation in his name; and
that Crump was entitled to 300 shares thereof. The petition
prayed that Crump be adjudged to own 300 shares of the stock;
and that the corporation be ordered to cancel on its books the
stock standing in the name of Wilson, to that extent, and to
issue- to Crump certificates for 300 shares.
The corporation was served with process. The petition was
then amended by stating that not less than 250 shares of the
stock still stood in the name of Wilson; and process on that
was served on the corporation. It then filed an answer, stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ing that 250 shares of its stock stood, when the petition was
filed, in the name of Wilson, on its books, and had not since
been transferred thereon; that, before the suit was brought,
one H. K. Thurber bought the 250 shares from Wilson, and
received from him the certificates thereof, by indorsement and
delivery, and still held and owned them, and he had notified
the president of the corporation of that fact, and claimed the
right to have the stock transferred into his own name; and
that it was willing to obey the judgment of the court, but
ought not to be ordered to cancel or transfer the stock, unless
Thurber should be brought before the court, to litigate with
Crump the true ownership of the stock.
Crump replied to the answer of the corporation, and filed an
amended petition, making Thurber a party to the suit, and
praying the same relief as in his original petition. Wilson and
Thurber were then each personally served with process in the
City of New York. Thurber then came into the State court
and filed a petition and a bond for the removal of the suit to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and the State court made an order removing the cause,
under the objection and exception of the plaintiff. The petition proceeded on the ground that Crump was a citizen of
Kentucky and Thurber a citizen of New York, and that there
was a controversy in the suit between them, which was wholly
between citizens of different States, and could be fully determined between them. Nothing was said in the petition for
removal about Wilson or the corporation.
Thurber then filed an answer in the Circuit Court, setting
forth that he had, on the 26th of October, 1880, purchased the
250 shares from Wilson, for value, and received from him the
certificates therefor, three in number, issued by the corporation
to, and in the name of, Wilson, with blank forms of assignment and power of attorney on the back, which Wilson
signed, and delivered to Thurber, with the certificates; that
he was entitled to fill the blanks and surrender the certificates,
and have the shares transferred and new certificates issued to
him by the corporation; and that he purchased the shares
without any knowledge or information of any claim by Crump

CRUMP v. THURBER.
Opinion of the Court.

against Wilson. The answer prayed that the shares be decreed to be the property of Thurber and not of Cramp, and
that the corporation be ordered to cancel the certificates issued
to Wilson, and to issue to Thurber new certificates in their
place. There was a replication to this answer.
Thurber also filed a cross-bill in the Circuit Court, making
as a defendant only the corporation, but not Crump, setting
forth himself as a citizen of New York and the corporation as
a citizen of Kentucky, and averring the facts as to his purchase
of the stock from Wilson, for value, and as to the indorsement and delivery of the certificates by Wilson to him, and
praying for judgment against the corporation, that it receive
and cancel the certificates issued to Wilson, and issue to Thurber other certificates, in their stead, for the 250 shares.
The corporation answered this cross-bill, saying that it was
a mere stake-holder between the parties to the suit, and praying for a proper judgment, which should protect it. There
was a replication to that answer.
Then Crump fied in the Circuit Court an amended bill, setting forth that the transaction between Wilson and Thurber
was for the fraudulent purpose of protecting the stock for
Wilson, and that the certificates were held in secret trust by
Thurber for Wilson. Thurber answered that amended bill,
denying its allegations. To that answer there was a replication.
Proofs were taken, and, on a hearing, a decree was made
dismissing the bill of Crump, and adjudging that Thurber was
the true owner of the 250 shares, and was entitled to have the
certificates issued to Wilson therefor cancelled, and other certificates issued in lieu thereof, on his application; and it was
ordered that the corporation cancel the certificates, and issue
or deliver to Thurber, or his order, such new certificates, and
that Tharber and the corporation recover of Crump their
costs. Wilson had never appeared or answered. Crump has
appealed to this court.
It is assianed for error, that the Circuit Court did not have
jurisdiction of this cause, under ยง 2 of the act of March 3,
1875, 18 Stat. 470, and ought to have remanded it to the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

court. This objection is well taken.

It is true that there is,

in the suit, a controversy between Crump and Thurber, but it
is a controversy to which the corporation is an indispensable
party. Crump brought the controversy into court as one between himself on one side, and Wilson and the corporation on
the other side; and throughout Crump maintained that Thurber had no right to take the place of Wilson, because the transactions between Wilson and Thurber gave Thurber no greater
right than Wilson had. The controversy which Crump asked
to have adjudicated was one in which he should be declared to
be the owner of the shares, and in which to give him the fruition of such decree, and enable him to stand as the legal owner
of the shares, and be recognized as such on the books of the
corporation, there should be a decree ordering the corporation
to cancel on its books the evidence of the ownership by Wilson.,
and to issue to Crump certificates for the shares. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must be determined, for the purposes of this case, by the status of the parties, and the nature
of the relief which had been asked by the plaintiff, at the time
of the application for removal. If the decree of the Circuit
Court had been in favor of Crump, it would have enforced a
right in favor of a citizen of Kentucky against a corporation
of Kentucky. That corporation could not have removed the
suit, by showing that a citizen of New' York was the other
claimant of the stock. The event of the suit, a decree in favor
of Thurber, on the merits, against Crump and the corporation,
is not a proper test of the jurisdiction. If Thurber had brought
the suit originally in the State court, against Crump and the
corporation, it could have been removed; or he might have
brought it originally against them in the Circuit Court. But in
the present decree, CIump's bill is dismissed on the merits, and
of course he is adjudged to have no rights against the corporation, and costs are decreed against him in favor of the corporation.
This case falls distinctly within a series of rulings made by
this court. Blake v. fcKim, 103 U. S. 336; _Hyde v. Ruble,
104: U. S. 407; Winckester v. Loud, 108 U. S. 130; Skainwald v. Lewis, 108 U. S. 158; Ayres v. Wiswall, 112 U. S.

STEWART v. DUNHAM.
Statement of Facts.

187; Hancock v. HTolbrook, 112 U. S. 229; r'ayerv. ife .Asdociation, 112 U. S. 717; Nf. . Cent. Railroad Co. v. Aills,
113 U. S. 249; S8ully v. -Drennan,113 U. S. 287; Iouiiville
& 31ashvillee Railroad Co. v. Ide, 114 U. S. 52; St. ouis & San,
Francisco Rail'oad Co. v. Trilson, 114 U. S. 60; Putnam v.
Ingraham, 114 U. S. 57; Pirnev. Tvedt, ante, 41.
The decree of the Circuit Oourt is reversed, and the case
remanded to that court, with a direction to remand it to
the State court, for want of jurisdiction, with costs to
Crump against Thurber, in the Circuit Court.

STEWART & Others v. DUNHA2M & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U.KITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

Submitted April 20, 1885--Decided May 4,1885.

When a creditor's bill in equity is properly removed from a State court to a
Circuit Court of the United States on the ground that the controversy is
wholly between citizens of different States, the jurisdiction of the latter
court is not ousted by admitting in the Circuit Court as co-plaintiffs other
creditors who are citizens of the same State as the defendants.
On appeal by defendants from a decree of a Circuit Court on a creditor's bill,
in which the judgments are several, for the payment of amounts adjudged
to creditors s6verally, this court has jurisdiction only over such as appeal
from a decree for payment to a creditor of a sum, exceeding the sum or
value of $5,000. As to all others the appeal must be dismissed.
In the absence of fraud a transfer by a debtor in Mississippi of all his property to one of his creditors in satisfaction of the debt is valid ; nor is it invalidated if, before it was made, the same property had been transferred by
the debtor to a trustee to secure the same debt in like good faith, by an instrument which was void under the statutes of Mississippi, by reason of its
form and contents, and if the said trustee joins in the transfer by the debtor.
The facts in this case do not establish the charge that the sale of the property
to the creditor was made with a purpose to hinder or defraud creditors.

This was a bill in equity by creditors to reach property of
the debtor alleged to have been fraudulently transferred, as
against the creditors.

