SHEPHERD v. MAY.
Syllabus.

offence committed or attempted in his presence," as well as in
cases of felony, and requiring the person arrested to be taken
forthwith before a magistrate, evidently have in view civil
offences only, and if they could be construed to include such
offences against the United States, certainly do not include
offences which are not triable and punishable except by court
martial.
Upon full consideration of the question, and examination of
the statutes, army regulations, and other authorities, cited in
the elaborate argument for the respondents, or otherwise
known to us, we are of opinion that by the existing law a
peace officer or a private citizen has no authority as such, and
without the order or direction of a military officer, to arrest
or detain a deserter from the army of the United States.
Whether it is expedient for the public welfare and the good of
the army that such an authority should be conferred is a matter for the determination of Congress.
It is therefore ordered that tte judgment of the Circuit Court,
remnanding the case to the Superior Court of the City and
County of San,Francisco,be aJfirned ; and that the fnal
judgment of said Superior Court be reversed, and the case
reemanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

SHEPHERD v. MAY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.
Argued November 11, 1885.-Decided November 23, 1885.

A conveyance of real estate subject to a deed of trust executed by the vendor to
secure the payment of a note, does not, without words importing that the
vendee assumes the payment of the note, subject the latter to any liability
to pay it.
An express promise made to the vendor by the vendee of real estate conveyed
to him subject to a deed of trust executed to secure a debt, that he will
pay the debt, does not, without the assent of the creditor, make the vendee
the principal debtor, and the vendor the surety.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
Where a deed of trust, executed to secure the note of the grantor, provided
that in default of payment the trustee should sell the property on these
terms : "The amount of indebtedness secured by said deed of trust unpaid, with expenses of sale, in cash, and the balance at twelve and eighteen
months," and the proceeds of the sale made by the trustee were less than
the amount due on the note, the holder was not estopped to deny that his
note was satisfied by the payment to him of such proceeds.

This was an action at law brought by John Frederick May,
the defendant in error, against Alexander R. Shepherd, the
plaintiff in error, to recover a balance due on a promissory
note.
The facts disclosed by the bill of exceptions were, in substance, as follows: On April 26, 1875, May lent Shepherd
$10,000, whereupon Shepherd made and delivered to May a
note of that date and amount, payable to his order two years
after date, with interest at ten per cent. per annum, payable
quarter-yearly until paid. To secure the payment of the note,
Shepherd on the same day conveyed to two trustees, with
power to sell, in default of the payment of the note, a certain
improved lot in the city of Washington of which he was the
owner, and which May at that time believed to be good security
for the money lent. This deed of trust provided that, if default
was made in the payment of the note or the interest, the
trustees should sell the property thereby conveyed at public
sale, on the following terms: "The amount of indebtedness
secured by said deed of trust unpaid, with the expenses of
sale, in cash, and the balance at twelve and eighteen months,
for which the notes of the purchaser, bearing interest from the
day of sale,

shall be taken."

Before the maturity of the note, Shepherd sold the lot to
Gilbert 0. Walker, and by deed dated August 1, 1876, for the
consideration, as stated in the deed, of $30,000, the receipt of
which was acknowledged, conveyed the same to him. The
deed to Walker was made "subject to a certain deed of trust
dated the twenty-sixth day of April, A. D. 1875,

.

.

.

for

the sum of ten thousand dollars," being the same deed of trust
executed by Shepherd to secure his note to May. The deed
contained a covenant by Shepherd to defend the premises con-

SHEPHERD v. MAY.
Argumeut for Plaintiff in Error.

veyed against the claim of all persons claiming under the
grantor, "save and except the aforesaid deed of trust." Shepherd paid the interest on his note to May as it accrued up to
the time of his sale to Walker, and after that time Walker paid
the interest until the maturity of the note. When the note
fell due, Walker came to May and told him that "he had the
note to pay," and asked May to extend the time of payment
for one year; and thereupon May extended the note for one
year, Walker agreeing to pay interest thereon at the rate specified in the note. Walker paid the interest upon the note for
the year, and at the end of that time asked a further extension
for another year. May agreed to extend the time of payment
for nine months at the same rate of interest, which Walker
agreed to pay, but he paid no interest for this period. There
was no evidence that Shepherd consented to these extensions
of time for the payment of his note.
At the end of the nine months allowed by May to Walker
for the payment of the note, upon default made, the property
covered by the deed of trust was advertised and sold by the
trustees. It was purchased by May for the sum of $8500, to
whom it was conveyed by the trustees by deed dated May 19,
1879. After crediting the note with the net proceeds of sale,
May brought this suit against Shepherd to recover the balance
which he claimed to be due thereon. The jury returned a verdict for May for $3163.28, on which the court rendered judgment. Shepherd, by the present writ of error, challenged the
correctness of that judgment.
.Ab'. W'illiam,F. .Aattingly and X'. A. C.Bradley for plaintiff
in error.-Walker having purchased the property from Shepherd subject to the indebtedness secured thereon, which he
agreed to pay, May, with full knowledge of these facts, acquiesced in the arrangement, and agreed with Walker to extend
the time of payment of the note, first for one year, and then
for nine months, at the same rate of interest, ten per cent. We
claim that under these circumstances Walker became the principal debtor, and Shepherd the surety for the payment of the
note, and that the extension for a definite time, for a valid con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sideration, without Shepherd's consent, released him from all
liability on the note. Afillerd v. Thorn, 56 N. Y. 402; Colgrove v. Tallman, 67 iN. Y. 95; Oakeley v. Pashlee, 10 Bligh.
N. S. 548, 580, 581; iMetz v. Todd, 36 Mich. 473; Calvo v.
Davies, 73 N. Y. 211; George v. Andrews, 60 Maryland, 26.
Formal words need not be used to show that the purchaser of
mortgaged premises assumed the payment of the mortgage.
The assumption may be established by circumstances, and a
parol or verbal promise is sufficient. Miioore's Appeal , 88
Penn. St. 450; Bolles v. Beach, 2 Zabr. (22 N. J. L.) 680;
Drury v. Tremont Improvement Co., 13 Allen, 168; Brewer
v. Dyer, 7 Cush. 337. It is competent to show by parol testimony the true relations that parties to commercial paper bear
to the debt evidenced by it; that one who signs as maker is in
fact a surety, and the holder of the note, with notice of this relation, is bound to act accordingly. Harris v. Brooks, 21
Pick. 195; Guild v. Butler, 127 Mass. 386; TFheat v. .ffendall,
6 N. H. 504; Hubbard v. Gurney, 64 N. Y. 457, 460; Lime
Roek Bank v. Mallett, 34 Maine, 547. In this case, under his
assumed relations to the debt, Walker became liable upon it to
suit at law by May. Brewer v. Dyer, supra; Barker v. Bucklin, 2 Denio, 45; Lawrence v. Fox, 20 N. Y. 268; Burr v.
Beers, 24 N. Y. 178; Ross v. -Yennison, 38 Iowa, 396; Crumbxugh v. .ugler, 3 Ohio St. 544; Thompson v. Thompson, 4
Ohio St. 333. Walker, a stranger to the note, thus becoming
liable to May for its payment, this of itself was a new consideration to May, and a good consideration for the extension.
Boyd v. Freize, 5 Gray, 653.
The note bore ten per cent. interest until paid, and its extension, at the same rate of interest, for Walker, was for a sufficient consideration and binding. German Savings Association
v. Hfelmrick, 57 Missouri, 100; Wlood v. _Newkirk, 15 Ohio St.
295, 298; Fawcett v. Freshwater, 31 Ohio St. 637; Fay v.
Tower, 58 Wise., 293. Our usury law is contained in §§ 713,
714, 715, 716, Rev. Stat. 11. S. relating to the District of
Colunibia. The contract for the extension was not for a
usurious consideration; but even if it were, the payments implied, and were each a sufficient consideration for a promise to

SHEPHERD v. M1AY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

forbear for the respective periods for which the interest was
paid, and each of such extensions was sufficient to discharge
the surety, Shepherd. Oates v. XYaional Bank, 100 U. S. 239,
248; Wild v. Howe, 74: Missouri, 551. The authorities are
uniform upon this question. For each quarter of the first extension of one year the entire interest specified in the note and
agreed to be paid by Walker, in consideration of the extension, was paid. The contract if usurious was not void, it was
voidable at the option of the debtor, and not at the option of
the creditor. Such payment discharged the surety. Lemmom
v. Whitman, 75 Ind. 318, and cases cited therein.
The plaintiff claims a balance due on the note after crediting what he says were the proceeds of sale under the deed of
trust of the property of which he became the purchaser, and
obtained a deed which recites that the property was sold in
accordance with the terms prescribed by the deed of trust, and
that he became the purchaser at such sale, and has fully complied with the terms of sale. The deed of trust prescribed
that the terms of sale shall be the amount of the note and
expenses of sale in cash, and the plaintiff is estopped to say
that the note is not paid. Fitch v. Baldwin, 17 Jobns. 161,
166; Freeman,v. Auld, 44: N. Y. 50; Dundas v. Hitchcock,
12 How. 256. A party cannot occupy inconsistent positions,
and where one has an election between inconsistent courses.of
action he will be confined to that which he first adopts. Any
decisive act of the party done with knowledge determines his
election and works an estoppel. The plaintiff cannot hold that
property, and say that the note is not paid. B'eeding v.
Stamper, 18 B. Mon. 175; Phillip8 v. Roger8, 12 Met. 405;
Horton v. Davis, 26 N. Y. 495.
The 4th and 5th exceptions show that the property was
worth more than sufficient to pay the debt, and that the plaintiff bought it in at such bid as he saw fit to make, and in view
of the terms of the deed of trust the evidence was admissible
to show payment of the debt by the sale.
Xr. Andrew B. Duvall for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

iMP. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
The first contention of the plaintiff in error is, that by reason
of the transactions stated in the bill of exceptions, Walker became the principal debtor of May, and Shepherd became his
surety, and as May, upon a valid contract with Walker, extended the time for the payment of the note without the consent of Shepherd, the latter was thereby discharged.
The plaintiff in error sought upon the trial to give effect to
this contention by asking the court to direct the jury to render
a verdict in his favor. The court having refused to do this,
the refusal is now assigned for error.
We have under this assignment of error to decide whether,
by the mere conveyance of the premises in question to Walker
by Shepherd, subject to the encumbrance created by the deed
of trust, Walker became bound to May as principal debtor,
and Shepherd became his surety. We are of opinion that the
conveyance of the premises to Walker did not subject him to
any liability to May whatever. To raise such a liability as is
contended for by Shepherd there must be words in the deed
of conveyance from which, by fair import, an agreement to
pay the debt can be inferred. This was expressly held in
Elliott v. Sackett, 108 U. S. 132, where Mr. Justice Blatchford,
in delivering the judgment of this court, said: "An agreement
merely to take land, subject to a specified encumbrance, is not
an agreement to assume and pay the encumbrance. The
grantee of an equity of redemption, without words in the
grant importing in some form that he assumes the payment,
does not bind himself personally to pay the debt. There must
be words importing that he will pay the debt to make him
personally liable." To the same effect see Belmont v. Coman,
22 N. Y. 438; Fske v. Tolman, 124 Mass. 254; Hoy v.
Bramkall, 4 0'. E. Green, 74, 78; .Fowler v. Fay, 62 Ill. 375.
There are no such words in the deed made by the plaintiff in
error to Walker.
Neither is there any other sufficient evidence of any agreement between Walker and Shepherd, whereby the former
undertook to pay the debt of the latter to May. The remark

SHEPHERD v. MAY.
Opinion of the Court.

made by Walker to 'May, when he asked to have the time for
the payment of the note extended, that "he had it to pay,"
falls far short of showing any such agreement. As he had
bought the property, subject to the encumbrance of the deed
of trust, for the consideration of $30,000, which, as appears by
the deed to him, he had paid to Shepherd, he might well say
that he had the encumbrance to pay without admitting or
meaning that lie had become personally liable to Shepherd to
pay it. His words may be fairly construed to mean that he
had the encumbrance to pay or would have to lose the property
on which he had already paid $30,000 of the purchase money.
But, even if Walker had said to May that he was liable for
the debt, his admission would not have been binding on May
so as to establish the fact without other proof. And if Walker
had expressly promised May to pay the debt, that would not,
without the assent of May, have converted Shepherd from a
principal debtor into a surety merely. Cucullu v. Iernandez,
103 U. S. 105 ; Bey v. Simpson, 22 How. 341. The only way
in which Walker could become the principal debtor of May,
and Shepherd the surety, was by the mutual agreement of all
three. There is no proof of any such agreement. It follows
that, as the relation of principal and surety did not exist
between Walker and Shepherd, the latter was not discharged
from his liability to May by the contract of May with Walker
to extend the time for the payment of the money due on
Shepherd's note. But even if it had been shown that Shepherd
had become, the surety of Walker it was incumbent on the
former to show as a part of his defence that the indulgence
given by May to Walker was without his assent. Sprigg v.
Bank of Mount Pleasant, 14 Pet. 201; Bangs v. Strong, 7
Hill, 250; S. C., 42 Am. Dec. 64; Cox v. .-3obile &c.Railroad
Co., 37 Ala. 320, 323. There was no proof of want of assent.
The defence therefore failed.
It is next contended by the plaintiff in error that May is
estopped to deny that the note sued on is not paid in full, because the deed of conveyance made to him by the trustees
recites that the property was sold to him in accordance with
the terms of the deed of trust, and the deed of trust declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

that the terms of sale should be the amount due on the note of
Shepherd, and the expenses of sale in cash, and the balance on
a credit of twelve and eighteen months. This contention is
based on the theory that the clause of the deed, of trust executed by Shepherd prescribing the terms of sale, and which
merely showed his expectation that the property would bring,
at least, the amount of the note and expenses of sale, estopped
M~ay from denying that the property would, and actually did,
bring that amount. There is no estoppel. The proposition
amounts to this, that when a mortgagor represents to his
mortgagee that the property mortgaged is sufficient security
for the debt, and the mortgagee, relying upon the representation, accepts the security, and it turns out that the proceeds of the mortgaged property are insufficient to pay the
debt, he is estopped to deny that his debt is paid. The statement of the proposition is its answer. The authorities referred
to upon this contention* by counsel for Shepherd are cited to
sustain the proposition, that a person who accepts a deed of
conveyance is estopped to deny recitals therein contained.
But as there is no recital in the deed that May had agreed that
the property should bring a sum sufficient to pay his note, he
is not topped to deny that the note is paid.
Judgment afflirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. HUMES.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF :MISSOURI.
Argued November 12, 1885.-Decided November 23, 1885.

A statute of a State requiring every railroad corporation in the State to erect
and maintain fences and cattle guards on the sides of its road, and, if it
does not, making it liable in double the amount of damages occasioned
thereby and done by its agents, cars, or engines, to cattle or other animals
on its road, does not deprive a railroad corporation, against which such
* Note by the Court.-Fttchl v. .Baldwin, 17 Johns. 161; Freemanv. Aidd,
44 N. Y. 50; Dundas v. Hicheock, 12 How. 256.

