CASES ADJUDGED
XN TIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

LAMAR, Executor, 'v. MoCULLOCO.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 15, 16, 188.5-Decided October 26, 1885.
Under q 3 of the act of July 27, 1868, ch. 276, 15 Stat. 243, now embodied
in § 1059 of the Revised Statutes, in an action of trover brought against a
former Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, in a court other
than the Court of Claims, to recover a sum of money as the value of certain
cotton alleged to have been the private property of the plaintiff, the defendant pleaded that the cotton had, in an insurrectionary State, been
taken, received and collected, as captured or abandoned property, into the
hands of a special agent appointed by the defendant while such Secretary,
to receive and collect captured or abandoned property in that State, under
SI1
of the act of March 12, 1863, ch. 120, 12 Stat. 820; that the provisions of that act were carried out in regard to the cotton, as being captured
or abandoned cotton; that all the acts done by the defendant respecting the
cotton were done by him through such agent, in the administration of, and
in virtue and under color of, the act of 1863; and that, by force of § 3 of
the act of 1863, and of § 3 of the act of 1868, the action was barred, and
was exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims. It appeared
that the cotton had been taken, so far as the defendant was concerned, as
being captured or abandoned property, under a claim, made by him in good
faith, to that effect, in the administration of, and under color of, the act
of 1863. Held, That, without reference to the question whether the cotton
was in fact abandoned or captured property, within the act of 1863, the

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
fact that it was taken as being such, under such claim, made in good faith,
was a bar to the action, under the act of 1868, and § 1059 of the revised
Statutes.

This was an action of trover, originally brought by Gazaway
B. Lamar against Hugh McCulloch, in the Supreme Court of
New York, in September, 1873, and removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, by the defendant. The declaration was framed to recover $150,280, as the value of 578 bales of cotton, known as
the Thomasville cotton, and $110,760, as the value of 426 other
bales of cotton, known as the Florida cotton. The suit was
afterwards discontinued as to the Thomasville cotton. The
defendant pleaded (1) the general issue; (2) that the defendant
was the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, and
the 426 bales had, in the State of Florida, which had been
designated as in insurrection against the lawful government of
the United States by the proclamation of the President of the
United States, dated July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 1266, "been taken,
received, and collected, as abandoned or captured property,
into the hands of certain special agents, duly appointed by the
Secretary of the Treasury to recover and collect captured or
abandoned property" in said State, in pursuance of the provisions of the 1st section of the act of Congress approved
March 12, 1863, ch. 120, 12 Stat. 820, and the acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto; that "all the other
provisions of said act of Congress were carried out in regard
to said bales of cotton, as being captured or abandoned cotton;"
that all acts done by the defendant "respecting said cotton,
were done by him through the agents aforesaid, as such officers
of the United States as aforesaid, and in the administration of,
and in virtue and under color of, the aforesaid acts of Congress;" and that, by force of § 3 of the said act of March 12,
1863, and § 3 of the act of Congress approved July 27, 1868,
ch. 276, 15 Stat. 243, the plaintiff "has no legal cause of action
herein, but is barred from such action, which, by force of the
statutes aforesaid, is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims;" (3) that this action is brought against the
defendant "for or on account of private property taken by

LAXAR v. AcCULLOCH.
Statement of Facts.

him as an officer or agent of the United States, in virtue or
under color of" said act of March 12, 1863, and the acts
amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto; that the acts
done by the defendant, "in regard to said private property,
were done by him as an officer or agent of the United States,
in the administration of, and in virtue and under color of, said
act" of March 12, 1863, and said acts amendatory thereof
and supplementary thereto; and that, by force of § 3 of said
act of July 27, 1868, the plaintiff has no legal cause of action
against the defendant. There were other pleas to which it is
not necessary to refer.
To the general issue the plaintiff put in a similiter. To the
second plea he put in two replications: (1) that the defendant
seized and detained the cotton mentioned in the plea in his
own wrong and without the cause alleged, concluding to the
country; (2) that the cotton was not property abandoned or
captured in the State of Florida, "and had not been taken,
received and collected, as abandoned or captured property,
into the hands of special agents duly appointed by the Secretary of Treasury to receive and collect captured and abandoned property" in said State, in pursuance of the statutes
cited, and was "not seized by any agent or officer of the
United States as such abandoned or captured property, and
that all acts done " by the defendant "respecting the said cotton, were not done by him through the agents aforesaid, as
the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, and in the
administration of, and in virtue and under color of," the acts
of Congress set forth in the plea, concluding to the country.
To the third plea the plaintiff replied, that the cotton was not
private property taken by the defendant "as an officer or
agent of the United States, in virtue or under color of" the
acts of Congress mentioned in the plea; and that the acts
*done by him in regard to the cotton "were not done by him
as an officer or agent of the United States, in the administration of, and in virtue and under color of," said acts of Congress, concluding to the country.
To these replications the defendant put in similiters. The
case was at issue in March, 1874. In October, 1874, Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Lamar died, and, the present plaintiff having been appointed
and qualified as his executor in November, 187-, an order was
made in November, 1875, continuing the action in his name as
executor. The cause was tried before a jury in November,
1884. At the close of the plaintiff's evidence, and without
any evidence being put in by the defendant, the court directed
the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, "upon the ground
that the Court of Claims bad exclusive jurisdiction of the cause
of action set forth in the plaintiff's declaration, and in the evidence as given thereunder, by virtue of the statute of March
12, 1863, and the statutes passed amendatory thereof." The
plaintiff excepted to this ruling, and a verdict was rendered
for the defendant, followed by a judgment in his favor, to
review which the plaintiff brought this writ of error.
The case made out by the plaintiff by his evidence set forth
in the bill of exceptions, as applied to the pleadings above set
forth, was this, so far as such evidence is material, in the view
which the court takes of the case:
On the 16th of November, 1865, one Samuel G. Cabell, being in Washington, addressed to the defendant, who was then
the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, a written
application or petition, asking for compensation for certain
services performed by him "in collecting and securing for the
government of the United States certain captured property
therein enumerated." No copy of this letter is put in evidence, and its tenor is to be gathered from subsequent correspondence.
On the 17th of November, 1865, the defendant sent to Mr.
Cabell the following letter:
"TREASuRY

DEPA-RTmENT,

NYovember 17tkh, 1865.

Sm: I have received your application for compensation for
certain services performed by you under an appointment from
J. H. Alexander, Esq., ass't special agent at Pensacola and
Apalachicola, Fla., in collecting and securing for the Government of the United States certain captured property therein
enumerated.
In fixing the amount of your compensation Mr. Alexander

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Statement of Facts.

transcended his authority, and promised you an amount larger
than has been approved by me in any case, and much larger,
in my opinion, than the circumstances in these cases would
justify. Nor does it appear that the property in question has
been actually placed in possession of any agent of this Department, or in fact removed from the places where it was discovered. In view, however, of the stipulations made by Mr. Alexander and services you have performed and will still be able
to perform for the Department in connection with the collection of this property, I desire that you return to your late field
of operations and do all in your power to secure to the Government the cotton named by you, and to transport the same to a
proper place of shipment at the earliest practicable day; and
I will agree to make such an allowance as compensation for
your services as will be liberal and just, in view of the character of your services and the risk and expenses incurred by you
in performing them. To this end it will be necessary for you
to keep accurate accounts and a full history of all the facts
connected with all lots of cotton, so secured and delivered by
you.
Please acknowledge the receipt hereof, and advise me
whether the proposition herein made will be accepted by you.
H. MCCULLOcH,
Very respectfully,
Secretary of the Treasury.
S. G. Cabell,
Acting Aid to Ass't Sp'l Agent
Treas'y Dep't, Ninth Special Agency."
On the 18th of November, 1865, Mr. Cabell replied as follows:
"WAsm-GToN, D.

C., 2Vov. 18th, 1865.

Hon. Hugh McCulloch, Secretary of the Treas'ry.
Sm: I am in receipt of your communication of the 11th of
Nov. authorizing me to return to my late field of operations in
Florida and Southern Georgia, and to do all in my power to
secure to the Government the cotton named in my communication of the 16th of November, and I hereby signify my acceptance of your proposals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Before leaving the city I would desire further instructions as
to the mode of paying the necessary expenses to be incurred in
bringing the said cotton to a proper place of shipment, and to
whom I am authorized to turn the cotton over.
In your communication no mention is made of my claim for
compensation for collecting or securing the cedar timber and
the cattle named in my petition, and I understand that decision
upon these matters has been deferred.
I am, very respectfully, your ob'd't serv't,
S. G. OABELL."
On the 11th of December, 1865, Mr. Cabell sent to the defendant the following letter:
"TALLAHAssEE, FLORIDA, December, 11th, 1865.
Hon. I. McCulloch, Secretary of the Treasury.
Sin: I have the honor to report that, agreeable to your
orders contained in your Itter of Nov'r, 17th ult., I have
already shipped to Jacksonville, for shipment to New York,
one hundred and seventy bales of cotton, a part of the lot
formerly owned by the Exporting and Importing Company,
and am engaged preparing the balance for shipment.
I have the honor to report that I proceeded to Thomasville,
Georgia, and to carry out your instructions relative to the cottons at that point and vicinity, estimated at over fifteen hundred bales, and specified in my petition to which your letter of
the 17th of November was an answer, and found that the cotton was being shipped by Mr. Browne, special agent of the 5th
district, upon whom I made a demand for the cottons, who
refused to allow me to touch a bale of the cotton, and I was
refused assistance from the military commander at that post,
on the ground that he had no authority in the premises. I
have respectfully to state that I served, in writing, notices upon
the holders of this cotton, and was the party by whose aid the
Government did finally come into the possession of the same.
I have to respectfully ask that the said special agent, Browne,
be ordered to allow me to carry out my orders contained in

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Statement of Facts.

your letter of Iiov'r 17th, and that he be required to make a
report as to what disposition he has made of any part of said
cotton, and that the military be ordered to aid me in guarding
the same, and such other assistance as they may be able to
render.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your ob't serv't,
S. G. CABELL,
Acting Agent, Treasury .Dep't."
The defendant replied to this letter as follows, on the 29th
of December, 1865:
"TREAsuRy

DEPARTMENT,

December 29th, 1865.

Sin: I have received your letter of the 11th instant, advising
me that, in accordance with my instructions of Nov. 17th, you
had shipped to Jacksonville, for shipment to New York, 170
bales of cotton, being part of a lot formerly owned by the Exporting and Importing Company, and that you are engaged in
preparing the balance for shipment; also, that you visited
Thomasville, Ga., in relation to the cotton at that point, and
found that it was being shipped by Mr. Browne, supervising
sp'l agent 5th agency, upon whom you made a demand for the
cotton, and that he refused to allow you to touch a bale of it;
stating, also, that you were the party by whose aid the
Government finally came into possession of it, and asking that
Mr. Browne be ordered to allow you to carry out the instructions referred to, &c., &c.
My letter of Nov. 17th to which you refer, was not intended
to authorize you to take possession of any cotton which might
be found in the hands of a duly authorized agent of the Department, but was intended rather that you should co-operate
with such agents, and to empower you to take into your possession any cotton belonging to Government not in the custody
of any other officer of the Department, and which might not
otherwise be secured by them.
Inasmuch as it appears, by the records in this department,
that the cotton at Thomasville was turned over to Mr. Browne

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

by the military authorities in August last, and regularly receipted for by him, I must decline to comply with your
request to direct him to turn it over to you.
Mr. Browne has made a representation of the matter to the
Department, from which it appears that you have assumed to
authorize other persons 'to seize all the cotton, tobacco, and
other property which heretofore belonged to the so-called Confederate Government.' A perusal of my letter to you of Nov.
17th will show that no authority to appoint subordinates was
delegated to you; nor was it intended to do more than secure
your services in connection with the lots of property specified
by you. No indiscriminate seizures or collections were contemplated by it; you will, therefore, withdraw any such appointments you may have given, and conform your general
action accordingly.
Relative to the instructions asked for in your communication -of the 18th ult., I have to say, as to the mode of paying
the necessary expenses incurred in bringing cotton to a proper
place of shipment, that such expenses should be paid by the
vessel transporting it to New York, and the same should follow the cotton as charges, to be paid by the United States
cotton agent in New York. It is thought that any vessel
desiring to secure the freight will make this arrangement.
It is proper to add here that it is not necessary that the shipments of cotton to New York should be made by you. The
spirit of my instructions will be carried out as well by your
delivering it to any authorized agent near where the same may
be found, or at the place of shipment, and your compensation
will be allowed accordingly.
Your letter of the 11th instant conveys no specific information in regard to where the cotton referred to was found, nor
to whom or by what vessel or conveyance the same was
shipped. In this connection I desire to call your attention to
that paragraph of my letter of Nov. 17th requiring you to keep
accurate accounts and a full list of all the facts connected with
any lots of cotton secured and delivered by you. A copy of
this record and history should be forwarded to the Department immediately on the shipment of any lot, and a copy

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Statement of Facts.

should also be furnished to the agent to whom it is turned
over or consigned.
Very respectfully,
H. MCCULLOCH,

Secretary of the Treasury.
S. G. Cabell, Esq.,
Acting Aid Treasury Department, Tallahassee, Fla."
On the 17th of February, 1866, Mr. Cabell, being in Washington, sent to the defendant a letter, in which he said:
"WASHINGTON, D. C., Febirucry17th, 1866.
Hon. Hugh McCulloch, Sec'y of Treasury.
Sin: In accordance with your letter of the 17th JT-ov'r last,
requesting me to return to my late field of operations in Florida
and Southern Georgia, and to do all in my power to secure to
the Government the cotton mentioned in my communication
to you Nov'r 16th last, I have now the honor to make the following report:
As will be seen by an official transcript of the books of the
'custom-house,' Jacksonville, Fla., collector's office, January
25th, 1866, and herewith submitted, marked 'Exhibit A,' I
shipped on board the brig Lewis Clark one hundred and seventy-seven (177) bales of cotton, weighing ninety-two thousand
one hundred and one (92,101) pounds; also shipped on board
the schooner Queen of the West, ninety-five (95) bales of cotton, weighing forty-eight thousand three hundred and twentyone (48,321) pounds, all of which cotton was marked ' U. S.,'
and consigned by me to Simeon Draper, Esq., cotton agent,
New York City.
The above-mentioned cotton which was seized by me, &c.,
was owned by the Exporting and Importing Company of
Georgia, (president, G. B. Lamar,) a company engaged in the
sole business of blockade running, and holding said property
for the purpose of aiding and abetting the rebellion, as stated
in my communication to you of the 16th Nov. last.
Most of the cotton purchased for the above company in
Florida and Southern Georgia was made by one who signs

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

himself as I W. W. Cheever, agent for G. B. Lamar,' as will
more fully hereafter appear when reference is made to certain
lots of cotton by me seized and shipped. It also appears that
the said cotton was purchased by the agents of Mr. Lamar and
left on the plantation subject to their order."
This letter proceeded to give an account of the various lots
of cotton making up the 272 bales, stating where in Florida
they were seized or taken by Mr. Cabell, and transmitting various documents, and, among them, an account showing that he
had paid out $6,651, as expenses relative to the cotton, before
it was shipped to New York. The letter said: "It will thus
be seen, from the papers submitted, that I have been engaged
since July last, in seizing and otherwise obtaining this two
hundred and seventy-two (272) bales of cotton for the Government;" and concluded with asking as compensation for the
services, one-third of the cotton, or 902 bales.
On the 27th of February, 1866, Mr. Cabell presented to the
Treasury Department a petition, setting forth that, on the 22d
of July, 1865, J. I. Alexander, then acting assistant supervising special agent of the United States Treasury Department
for the 9th special agency, "under the regulations of said Department for the collection of captured and abandoned property in the disloyal States," had appointed Mr. Cabell acting
aid to the assistant special treasury agent for the District of
Florida, "to collect and receive all the cotton, tobacco and
other property belonging to the United States ;" that, in July,
1865, one Douglas shipped from Tallahassee to one Ottman, a
reputed treasury agent at Jacksonville, Florida, 268 bales of
"government cotton," which Mr. Cabell then claimed were
taken from his district and should of right be under his control; and that, in August, 1865, Mr. Cabell paid the expenses
of preparing the cotton for shipment, which Ottman had not
paid, being $6,883.89. The petition prayed that Mr. Cabell
be paid the $6,883.89, and be allowed compensation for his
services in the matter.
On the 4th of May, 1866, the defendant sent the following letter to Mr. Draper, the United States cotton agent at New York:

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Statement of Facts.
" MAY 4, 1866.

Sin: Application is made to me by S. G. Cabell, Esq., for
the allowance to him of a portion of certain two hundred and
seventy-two (272) bales of cotton collected by him, and
shipped to you from Jacksonville, Fla., on the 25th of January
last, and for a portion also of certain two hundred and sixtyeight (268) bales alleged to have been collected by him and
turned over or shipped to Reuben Ottman, Esq., assistant
special agent at Jacksonville, Fla.
I am not at present prepared to make a division of either
lot, but it appearing to my satisfaction that Mr. Cabell has
paid, as expenses incidental to securing the first lot, the sum
of six thousand six hundred and fifty-four dollars ($6,654), and
on the second the sum of six thousand eight hundred and
eighty-three dollars and eighty-nine cents ($6,883.89), which
amounts should properly be reimbursed, you are hereby authorized and directed to pay to his attorneys, Messrs. Hughes,
Denver & Peck, the two amounts named, charging the first
as an item of expense against the two hundred and seventytwo bales above referred to, and the second as a similar item
against the shipment of cotton received by you from Mr. Ottman at Jacksonville.
Mr. Cabell also asks a per diem allowance as a compensation
for his time, personal services, and expenses in connection with
the cotton named; for this purpose you are also authorized
and instructed to pay his attorneys, Messrs. Hughes, Denver
& Peck, the sum of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350),
being at the rate of five dollars ($5) per day from the 17th of
Nov. last, the date of my letter authorizing him to take action
in the premises, to the 25th of January, the date of the shipment by him of the .two hundred and seventy-two (272) bales
mentioned, from Jacksonville, making a charge of this amount,
also, as an item of expense against the two hundred and
seventy-two (272) bales.
These several sums should be charged against Mr. Cabell on
your books, and wilt be deducted from any portion of cotton
hereafter allotted, or any allowance made to him, on a final
settlement of his claims.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

You will, of course, require proper receipts for the money
thus paid, and promptly report your action hereunder to the
Department.
Very respectfully,
H. M,'CuL.ocn,
Secretary of t e Trea&ury.
Simeon Draper, Esq., U. S. Cotton Agent, New York."
The $13,887.89 was paid by Mr. Draper May 7, 1866. The
272 bales of cotton were sold at auction by Mr. Draper, at
New York, September 12, 1866, and produced the net sum,
above expenses of sale, of $28,792.19, which sum was paid into
the Treasury of the United States. When the 268 bales were
sold does not appear, but the net proceeds of it, at New York,
above expenses, appear to have been $42,883.76, and it is
assumed they were paid into the Treasury.
On the 25th of May, 1867, the defendant sent to the Commissioner of Customs the following letter:
"M.Ayr 25, 1867.

Sin: In compliance with the promise made to him in my
letter of November 17th, 1865, I have decided to pay Mr.
Samuel G. Cabell, as full compensation for information furnished, services performed, and expenses incurred by him, in
the collection, putting in order and shipment to New York of
certain 272 and 268 bales of cotton, ex brig Lewis Clark, and
schooners Queen of the West, Julia Crawford, and R. E. Pecker,
etc., and for information furnished and expenses incurred by
him touching the cottons captured at Thomasville, Ga., and
other cottons claimed by the Georgia Exporting and Importing
Company, or by G. B. Lamar, and held by Government as
captured or abandoned property, the sum of four thousand
eight hundred and eighty-one dollars and ten cents ($4,881.10).
You will, therefore, please issue your requisition upon F. E.
Spinner, Esq., Treasurer, U. S. special agent, the same to be
satisfied out of any funds in his hands as proceeds of captured and abandoned property, for the amount named, viz.,
$4,881.10, in favor of George Peabody Este, whose full power
of attorney to act in the premises is on file in this office.

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The draft therefor when issued, should be handed to Mr.
S. HI. Kauffmann, a clerk in this office, for delivery to the
payee, under such instructions relative thereto as he may have
or receive.
Very respectfully,
H. M'CULLOCn,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Nathan Sargent, Esq're, Commissioner of Customs."
This settlement was made on the basis of giving to Mr.
Cabell one-fourth part of the gross value of the cotton as sold
at New York, and deducting therefrom the $6,654 and the
$6,883.89, and also one-fourth part of the expenses on the cotton before its shipment at Jacksonville, ind for its transit from
there to New York, and at New York, and adding $500 in
respect of the Thomasville cotton, making a total allowance of
$4,881.10, which sum was paid to Mr. Este, for Mr. Cabell, by
Mr. Spinner, as special agent, by a draft on the Treasurer of
the United States, May 27, 1867..
_31r. George Tek-nor Curtis [2r.Edward iV.Dic'ersonwas
with him on the brief ] for. plaintiff in error.-There was no
military seizure or capture of Lamar's cotton, or any part of it,
either as his individual property or as the property of any company. Without actual military seizure, constructive capture
resulting from military occupation of the district was not a
capture under the Abandoned and Captured Property Acts.
United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall. 531; Uinited States v.
_Tl7ei , 13 Wall. 128, 136; lamar v. Brown, 92 U. S. 187.
Before the seizure of the cotton, Lamar had taken the amnesty
oath. The proclamation of December 8, 1863, in and of itself,
granted a full pardon to all persons who had, directly or by
implication, participated in the existing rebellion, with certain
exceptions, none of which ever applied to Mr. Lamar, with
restoration of all rights of property except as to slaves, and in
property cases where rights of third parties had intervened, on
condition of their taking and keeping the prescribed oath.
The following cases establish that the pardon purged the
offender of all personal guilt and incapacity, and made him a

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

new man; and likewise purged his property of all previous
causes of forfeiture not arising out of any actual use to which
he had in fact put it, and not enforced before the time of the
pardon. (1866) Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333; (1867)
Amtrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766 ; (1869) United States v.
Padeford, 9 Wall. cited above; (1871) United States v.
Klein, 13 Wall. cited above; (1871) Armstrong v. UnitedStates,
13 Wall. 154.
The plaintiff, at the trial, took some exceptions to the rulings
of the court on the rejection of evidence, but on this writ of
error these are not very material. The substantial and important error is the peremptory direction to the jury to find a
verdict for the defendant upon the ground that the Court of
Claims had exclusive jurisdiction of the cause of action set forth
in the plaintiff's declaration, and in his evidence given thereunder, by virtue of the statute of March 12, 1863, and the
statutes amendatory thereof. We now make the following
points of law:
I. The action being for a personal tort, it was error for the
presiding judge to rule that the case made by the plaintiff's
declaration, and supported by his evidence, was one for the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, because the foundation and indispensable element of the Court of Claims' jurisdiction, namely, military capture or seizure, transfer of the
property from the military authority to the civil agent, and his
receipt therefor, were utterly wanting.
II. It was error in the presiding judge to rule as he did, because, on the fact that Lamar had taken the amnesty oath six
months before there was any seizure, and on the evidence
which proved the defendant's knowledge of that fact before he
finally adjusted and paid Cabell a large part of the proceeds of
Lamar's cotton, thereby ratifying and confirming the original
seizure and removal, the plaintiff had an absolute right to
have the verdict of the jury taken on the effect of the amnesty
oath, under an instruction that the plaintiff's property was
everywhere exempt from such a seizure as that made by Cabell
under authorization derived from the defendant. The ruling of
the presiding judge not only caused the inconvenience of and

-

LAM.IAR v. McCULLOCH.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

necessity for a new trial, but it shut out a fact which of itself
lay at the foundation of the personal action of tort, inasmuch
as it showed, under all the circumstances, that the original
seizure was a gross wrong, and that its ratification and adoption
by the defendant were made with knowledge that Lamar had
taken the oath.
III. It was error for the presiding judge to rule as he did, because there was no evidence in the case that the cotton was ever
the property of the Exporting and Importing Company, or was
purchased and held by Lamar with intent to transfer it to that
company, or that it was any one's property but his. On the
theory that it might turn out to have been the property of that
company, or was purchased and held by Lamar to aid the rebellion, the foundation of the Court of Claims' jurisdiction was
entirely wanting on the facts proved at the trial, because those
facts showed that whoever was the owner, or with whatever
intent the property was purchased, there had been no military
capture, seizure, custody, possession or control. The Court of
Claims could not take jurisdiction of a case where the seizure,
custody and control had been that of a civil agent alone, from
beginning to end.
IV. It was error in the presiding judge to rule as he did,
because, although the property of Lamar in Florida may have
been liable to capture by the Federal forces in September, October and November, 1865-so as to have made a case for the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, and to have made him
remediless save in that court-it was not liable to be taken by
any civil agent of the treasury without such capture, or to be
collected by such agent, even if there had been a capture. On
the 24th of June. 1865, President Johnson issued a proclamation, concerning removal of restrictions on commercial intercourse. 13 Star. 769. Three days later, on the 27th of June,
1865, a Treasury circular letter of instructions relative to commercial intercourse, captured, abandoned and confiscable property, freedmen, &c.,was issued. It first directed as follows: "The
various rules and regulations heretofore prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, in regard to the above named subjects,
having been rendered nugatory in whole or in part by the
vOL. cxv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

changed condition of affairs in the Southern States, and executive orders and proclamations, and the War Department having
assumed charge of freedmen, abandoned lands, &c., under the
provisions of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1865, the
following instructions as to the duties of officers of the.Treasury
Department in the premises are prescribed, and will be regarded
as in full force and effect immediately on the receipt thereof."
Then, among other things, it provided as follows: "4. Officers
of this Department charged with the duty of receiving or collecting, or having in their possession or under their control captured, abandoned or confiscable personal property, will dispose
of the same, in accordance with regulations on the subject
heretofore prescribed, at the earliest time consistent with the
public interests, and will refrain from receiving such from military or naval authorities after the 30th inst. This will not be
construed, however, as interfering with the operations of the
agents now engaged in receiving or collecting the property recently captured by or surrendered to the forces of the United
States, whether or not .covered by or included in the records,
etc., delivered to the United States military or Treasury
authorities, by rebel military officers or cotton agents. Those
so acting will continue to discharge the duties thus imposed
until such property is all received or satisfactorily accounted
for, and until the amount so secured is shipped or otherwise
disposed of under the regulations on the subject heretofore
prescribed. And they will use all the means at their command, with the utmost vigor, to the end that all the property
so collected, captured or turned over shall be secured to the
United States with the least possible cost and delay.
"After the 30th instant, the duty of receiving captured and
abandoned property not embraced in the above exception, will
be discharged by the usual and regular officers of the customs,
at the several places where they may be located, in accordance
with regulations relating to the subject; and officers heretofore
performing that duty will dive them all the aid and information in their power to enable them to carry out the same."
It has never been explained how, consistently with the above
cited proclamation and circular, the Secretary of the Treasury

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

could lawfully give to Cabell the authorization which was
given by his letter of November 17, 1865, in respect to the cotton named by Cabell in his communication of November 16.
On the facts, as they stood at the trial of this action, upon the
plaintiff's evidence, this cotton was Lamar's private property;
it had never been captured at any time; it did not come
within any of the predicaments in which the Treasury agents
were authorized by the circular to continue to act after June
30, 1865; it was the property of a man who had taken the
amnesty oath six months before the seizure, and who, under
both the proclamation and the circular, had a perfect right to
ship it to a Northern market, or any part of the world, or to
hold it where it was, unless it should have been captured by
the military forces then occupying Florida. Cabell, and every.
other Treasury agent, was functus oflcio as to any authority
to make a fresh seizure after the 30th of June, 1865, or to collect property from the military authorities which he was not
then engaged in collecting; and his employment in November,
1865, to make a special seizure of Lamar's cotton, must be
taken to have been an employment not as a public officer of
the government under the Abandoned and Captured Property
Acts, but as a personal agent of the defendant.
V. The presiding judge erred in ruling as he did, because
the question whether the defendant executed the Abandoned
and Captured Property Acts was not a mere question of law,
but was a mixed question of law and fact. If the district attorney did not choose to offer any evidence on this or any
other issue in the case, it was still the duty of the presiding
judge to put the plaintiff's evidence to the jury, on a proper
instruction as to what would constitute an execution of those
acts, and would make a case for the exclusive jurisdiction of
the Court of Claims.
VI. Two limitations were pleaded: one of six years under
the law of New York, the law of the forum where the action
was brought; the other one of two years under the act of
March 3, 1863, "relating to habeas corpus, and regulating
judicial proceedings in certain cases." 19 Stat. 755. The section referred to is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEo. 7. And be it further enacted, That no suit or prose-

cution, civil or criminal, shall be maintained for any arrest or
imprisonment made, or other trespasses or wrongs done or
committed, or act omitted to be done, at any time during the
present rebellion, by virtue or under color of any authority derived from or exercised by or under the President of the
United States, or by or under any act of Congress, unless the
same shall have been commenced within two years next after
such arrest, imprisonment, trespass, or wrong may have been
done or committed or act may have been omitted to be done;
Provided, That in no case shall the limitation herein provided
commence to run until the passage of this act, so that no
party shall, by virtue of this act, be debarred of his remedy
by suit or prosecution until two years from and after the passage of this act."
We suppose that all statutes of limitations of personal actions, especially of actions of tort against public officers, are to
be construed and applied by the principle that their operation
is suspended when the defendant is not within the reach of
process. In reference, therefore, to the two years' limitation,
we contend: 1 t. That it has no application to a ease in which
a public officer did not act within the scope of his delegated
powers, but acted wholly aside from them. Unless this court
can now hold, contrary to its decision, in Iamar v. Browne,
92 U. S. 18'(, that previous military capture or seizure was not
an essential element in the powers delegated to the Secretary
of the Treasury under the Abandoned and Captured Property
Acts, the seizure which was made was a naked trespass, and to
such a cause of action Congress cannot have intended to interpose a limitation of two years simultaneously operative everywhere throuighout the United States. 2d. That if the two
years' limitation is applicable to this case, the action was
brought seasonably.
XP. Attorney-General for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE BLATFmoRD delivered the opinion of the Court.
After stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Opinion of the Court.

The foregoing written documents show the connection of
the defendant with the case. Mr. Cabell's application or petition of [November 16, 1865, claimed compensation for having
collected or secured cotton, cedar timber, and cattle. It enumerated the property. The defendant, in.his letter of November 17, 1865, to Mr. Cabell, refers to it all as "captured
property," but says that as none of it had been actually placed
in the possession of any agent of the Treasury Department, or
removed from the places where it had been discovered, he desires that Mr. Cabell will return South and do all in his power
"to secure to the government the cotton named" by him, and
"to transport the same to a proper place of shipment." Only
cotton was to be secured; and it is a fair interpretation of the
letter, that the cotton was to be secured as having been
"captured property," and that it was referred to by the defendant as part of the "captured property" enumerated by
Mr. Cabell. Mr. Cabell, in his letter to the defendant of
December 11, :1865, speaks of the 170 bales he had already
shipped as cotton "formerly owned by the Exporting and Importing Company." The defendant, in his letter to Mr. Cabell
of December 29, 1865, says that his letter of November 17,
1865, was intended to empower Mr. Cabell to take into his
possession "any cotton belonging to government not in the
custody of any other officer of the department, and which
might not otherwise be secured by them;" that a perusal of
that letter will show that it was not intended to do more than
secure his services in connection with the lots of property
which had been specified by him; and that "no indiscriminate
seizures and collections were contemplated by it." Mr. Cabell's
letter to the defendant of February 17, 1866, says that the 272
bales he had shipped from Jacksonville to New York on January
25, 1866, were "owned by the Exporting and Importing Company of Georgia (President, G. B. Lamar), a company engaged
in the sole business of blockade running, and holding said
property for the purpose of aiding and abetting the rebellion."
In his petition of February 27, 1866, to the defendant, Mr.
Cabell states that he had been appointed by Mr. Alexander, in
July, 1865, to "collect and receive all the cotton, tobacco, and

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

other property belonging to the United States," and speaks of
the 268 bales as "government cotton," and speaks of Mr.
Alexander as agent of the Treasury Department, "under the
regulations of said department for the collection of captured
and abandoned property in the disloyal States." In his letter
of May 25, 1867, to Mr. Sargent, the defendant speaks of the
272 and 268 bales as being "held by government as captured
or abandoned property," and directs the $4,881.10 to be paid
out of the "proceeds of captured and abandoned property."
By§ 1 of the act of March 12, 1863, ch. 120, 12 Stat. 820,
the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to appoint special
agents "to receive and collect all abandoned or captured
property" (with specified exceptions), in any State designated
as in insurrection by the proclamation of the President of July
1, 1862, 12 Stat. 1266. Florida was such a State. By § 2,
the property collected, if not appropriated to public use, was
to be forwarded to a place of sale in the loyal States, and sold
at auction, and the proceeds paid into the Treasury of the
United States. By § 3, the Secretary of the Treasury was to
cause "books of account to be kept, showing from whom such
property was received, the cost of transportation, and proceeds
of the sale thereof." Section 3 further provided as follows:
"And any person claiming to have been the owner of any such
abandoned or captured property may, at any time within two
years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to
the proceeds thereof in the Court of Claims; and on proof to
the satisfaction of said court of his ownership of said property,
of his right to the proceeds thereof, and that he has never given
any aid or comfort to the present rebellion, to receive the residue
of such proceeds, after the .deduction of any purchase money
which may have been paid, together with the expense of transportation and sale of said property, and any other lawful expenses attending the disposition thereof."
By § 3 of the act of July 27, 1868, ch. 276, 15 Stat. 243,
it was declared to have been the true intent and meaning of
the act of March 12, 1863, "that the remedy given in cases of
seizure made under said act, by preferring claim in the Court
of Claims, should be exclusive, precluding the owner of any

LAMAR v. McCULLOCH.
Opinion of the Court.

property taken by agents of the Treasury Department as
abandoned or captured property, in virtue or under color of
said act, from suit at common law, or any other mode of
redress whatever, before any court or tribunal other than said
Court of Claims; and in all cases in which suits of trespass,
replevin, detinue, or any other form of action may have been
brought and are now pending, or shall hereafter be brought,
against any person, for or on account of private property taken
by such person as an officer or agent of the United States, in
virtue or under color of the act aforesaid," "the defendant
may and shall plead or allege, in bar thereof, that such act
was done or omitted to be done by him as an officer or agent
of the United States, in the administration of one of the acts
of Congress aforesaid, or in virtue or under color thereof, and
such plea or allegation, if the fact be sustained by the proof,
shall be, and shall be deemed and adjudged in law to be, a
complete and conclusive bar to any such suit or action." This
statute was in force when this suit was brought, and when the
issues in it were joined, and the provision as to the jurisdiction
of, and exclusive remedy in, the Court of Claims, is re-enacted,
in substance, in § 1059 of the Revised Statutes, which gives
jurisdiction to the Court of Claims to hear and determine all
claims for the proceeds of captured or abandoned property, as
provided by the act of March 12, 1863, or by the act of July
2, 1864, ch. 225, 13 Stat. 375, and then adds: ".Provided,
That the remedy given in cases of seizure under the said acts,
by preferring claim in the Court of Claims, shall be exclusive,
precluding the owner of any property taken by agents of the
Treasury Department as abandoned or captured property, in
virtue or under color of said acts, from suit at common law,
or any other mode of redress whatever, before any court other
than said Court of Claims."
The occasion for the enactment of the provisions of § 3 of
the act of July 27, 1868, appears to have been this: One Elgee
brought a suit in a State court in Missouri, against one Lovell,
to recover the possession of some bales of cotton. Lovell removed the case into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Districts of Missouri, on the ground that he was in posses-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

sion of the cotton as agent for the government of the United
States, which claimed it as abandoned property, under the act
of March 12, 1863. Elgee having died, the suit was continued
in the name of his administrator. It was decided by the Circuit. Court, held by Mr. Justice Miller and District Judges
Treat and Krekel, in October, 1865, and is reported in 1 Woolworth, 103, as Elgee's Administratorv. Iovell. The opinions of
the court, for there were two, were given by Mr. Justice Miller.
To the ordinary declaration in detinue the defendant pleaded
that the cotton had, before the suit was brought, and in March,
1864, been taken, received and collected, in the State of Mississippi, as abandoned property, into the possession of one Hart,
a special agent, appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury to
receive and collect abandoned or captured property, under the
act of March 12, 1863, Mississippi having been designated as
in insurrection, by the proclamation of July 1, 1863; that the
cotton was in possession of the defendant, at St. Louis, as agent
of the United States, in its transit to a place of sale, and he
was holding it for and on behalf of the United States, and not
otherwise; and that the cotton was claimed by the United
States as abandoned property, under said act. The plaintiff
demurred to this plea, and the demurrer was overruled. The
Circuit Court said, in regard to the plea: "It shows that the
cotton mentioned in the declaration was seized as abandoned
property, in one of the districts declared by the proclamation
to be in a state of insurrection, by a special agent of the Treasury Department for that district; and that, when this suit was
brought, it was held by the defendant as an agent of the government, with the view of disposing of it under the act. The
objection taken to it is, that it does not aver that the property,
when taken possession of by the Treasury agent, was captured
or abandoned property, nor in any other manner show that it
was rightfully seized. . . . The question is, whether Congress intended to make the remedy given by this act exclusive
of all others, or to permit the Treasury agents to be sued for
the possession or proceeds of such property wherever the party
aggrieved might find a court of general jurisdiction. . .
The act evidently contemplates, that, in some instances, at

LAMAR v. McCULLOCHr.
Opinion of the Court.

least, property will be seized which ought to be returned to its
owner, or for which compensation should be made by paying
him the proceeds. Otherwise it were unnecessary to provide
any means of determining when a return should be made.
And the remedy applies to property taken by mistake, or by
the unjustifiable act of the agent, equally as to property which
has been abandoned or captured.

.

.

I am of opinion

that Congress intended to prescribe to all claimants who
should prove their loyalty and their right to the property,
this remedy for all cases of seizure by agents under this law,
whether made in strict accordance with its provisions or not."
Upon this decision, the plaintiff filed a replication to the plea,
which averred that the cotton, before it came into the possession of Hart, was the property of Elgee; that, by the proclamation of the President, of December 8, 1863, 13, Stat. 737,
there was promised a full pardon and amnesty, with restoration of all their rights of property, except as to slaves, to all
those living in the insurrectionary districts, except certain
classes of persons therein mentioned, who should thereafter
take, subscribe and keep inviolate a certain oath therein prescribed; that, before the suit was brought, Elgee, then living
in said insurrectionary districts, not being one of the excepted
persons, took and subscribed the oath required and had kept it
inviolate; and that his rights of property in the cotton were
thereby restored to him. The defendant demurred to this replication. The demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court,
which held, in its decision, that, as the act of March 12, 1863,
contemplated that the property of loyal citizens might and
would be taken under it, and as the only remedy of a loyal
citizen of a loyal State in respect to property owned by him,
seized by a Treasury agent, in an insurrectionary district, as
abandoned property, was by an application to the Court of
Claims, pardon and amnesty could not place the disloyal citizen in any better position than that occupied by the loyal
citizen.
There was a final judgment against the plaintiff, and the
case was brought into this court by a writ of error sued out by
Elgee's administrator, and was No. 63 on the docket of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

December Term, 1867. Briefs for both parties were filed, and
the case was argued orally. The court was equally divided in
opinion, eight judges sitting, and the judgment was consequently affirmed, on the 27th of January, 1868. Subsequently,
the bill which became a law on the 27th of July, 1868, was
introduced into the House of Representatives, and passed by it
and by the Senate, and was approved by the President. It is
proper to assume, from this history and the contents of the
act, that it was introduced and passed because of the difficulties which had attended the decision of this court in the Elgee
case.
It is manifest, we think, that § 3 of the act of July 27, 1868,
was intended to cover, and does cover, a case like the present.
The act, in terms, includes a suit for what is in fact private
property, taken by an agent of the United States as being
abandoned or captured property, in the administration of the
act of March 12, 1863, or in virtue thereof, or under color
thereof. Whatever doubt there may have been before the act
of July 27, 1868, was passed, on facts such as those in Elgee's
case, there can be none as to this case, on its facts, under the
language of that act. Even though the property taken was
private property, if it was taken by an officer or agent of the
United States, under a claim that it was abandoned or captured
property, in the administration of the act of March 12, 1863,
or in virtue thereof, or under color thereof, the jurisdiction of
every court but the Court of Claims, in respect to every mode
of redress, is taken away, when it is pleaded or alleged in
defence that the property was taken by the defendant, as
such officer or agent, in the administration of the act, or in
virtue or under color thereof, and that fact is sustained by the
proof. The fact to be sustained by the proof is, not that the
property was in fact abandoned or captured property, but that
it was in fact taken as being such, on a claim to that effect, in
the administration of the act, or in virtue of it, or under color
of it. Of course, there must be good faith, or there can be no
color. The claim must not be made in bad faith. In .foLeod
v. Callicot, Chase's Decisions, 443, Chief Justice Chase, in
speaking of § 3 of the act of July 27, 1868, says, that, if a

LA.1AR v. McCUILOCH.
Opinion of the Court.

person proceeds in good faith, believing himself to be warranted,
as an officer of the government, in taking charge of property
under the act, he is covered by its provisions; and that, in
such case, although the acts he does as such officer are done
under a mistake as to the character of the property, he is
protected by the act against a private suit. This we believe
to be the proper interpretation of the statute. In TLammon v.
.Feusi,,111 U. S. 17, where a marshal, having an attachment
against the property of one person, levied it on the property
of a stranger, it was held by this court that the sureties on the
official bond of the marshal were liable to the stranger, because
the marshal had acted colore oftii, although he had acted
without sufficient warrant.
This suit is not against Mr. Cabell. No accusation of bad
faith against Mr. Cabell can affect the defendant, except so far
as the acts of Mr. Cabell were authorized in advance by the
defendant, or sanctioned or approved or ratified by him with
full knowledge. Starting out with the fact that it cannot be
held that in the beginning the defendant gave any authority
to Mr. Cabell except in regard to "captured property," we
find that he impressed upon Mr. Cabell the fact that he was
authorized only to take cotton belonging to the government,
and nothing beyond the specific cotton which Mr. Cabell had
named; that the proceedings Mr. Cabell was authorized to
take in regard to such cotton were proceedings under the act
of March 12, 1863, to collect it and ship it, so that it might be
sold ; and that the representations made in regard to all of the
cotton, by Mr. Cabell to the defendant, after it was shipped to
New York, were such as to indicate that it was "government
cotton," and to warrant the defendant in fairly regarding it as
cotton which had been " captured," within the act; and we
think the defendant had the right to treat it as cotton to be
sold under the act, and to see that its proceeds were paid into
the Treasury to await adjudication by the Court of Claims, and
was not called upon to take upon himself the responsibility of
restoring the cotton or its proceeds to Mr. Lamar, under any
representations which are shown to have been made to him by
Mr. Lamar in regard to the ownership of the cotton, or in

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

regard to its status as not being captured or abandoned
property, or in regard to the status of Mr. Lamar as having
taken an amnesty oath on January 6, 1865, under the proclamation of December 8, 1863, 13 Stat. 737. Nor do we think
these conclusions are affected by the contents of the written
opinion given by Mr. Eames, in December, 1866.
As to the general instructions issued to officers of the
Treasury Department, by the Secretary of the Treasury, on
the 27th of June, 1865, we are of opinion that, notwithstanding
those instructions, the Secretary of the Treasury bad the right
to give to Mr. Cabell the special authprity which he gave to
him.
Under these views, the instruction to the jury to find a
verdict for the defendant, on the ground stated in the instruction, was correct.
Judgment afflrmed.

NORRINGTON v. WRIGHT & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued January 20, 21, 18s.-Decided October 26, 1885.
In a mercantile contract, a statement descriptive of the subject-matter, or of
some material incident, such as the time or place of shipment, is ordinarily
to be regarded as a warranty, or condition precedent, upon the failure or
non-performance of which the party aggrieved may repudiate the whole
contract.
Under a contract made in Philadelphia, for the sale of "5,000 tons iron rails,
for shipment from a European port or ports, at the rate of about 1,000 tons
per month, beginning February, 1880, but whole contract to be shipped
before August 1, 1880, at $45 per ton of 2,240 lbs. custom-house weight,
ex ship Philadelphia ; settlement cash on presentation of bills accompanied
by custom-house certificate of weight; sellers not to be compelled to replace any parcel lost after shipment ;" the sellers are bound to ship 1,000
tons in each month from February to June inclusive, except that slight and
unimportant deficiencies may be made up in July; and if only 400 tons
are shipped in February, and 885 tons in March, and the buyer accepts and
pays for the February shipment on its arrival in March, at the stipulated

