OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

STARIN & Another v. NEW YORK.

INDEPENDENT STEA:MBOAT COMPAINY v.
NEW YORK.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted April 2, 1885.-Decided November 2, 1885.

When it appears in a suit that some title, right, privilege or immunity on
which recovery depends, will be defeated by one construction of the Constitution or laws of the United States, or sustained by the opposite construction, the case is one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, within the meaning of that term as used in the act of March 3, 1875,
18 Stat. 470.
The questions whether the City of New York has the exclusive right to establish ferries between Manhattan Island and the north shore of Staten Island
on the Kill von Kull ; and, whether in a given case this right has been
interfered with by the setting up of a ferry without license, are not questions arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
A separate defence by one defendant, in a joint suit against him and others upon
a joint or a joint and several cause of action, does not create a separate controversy, so as to entitle that defendant, if the necessary citizenship exists
as to him, to a removal of the cause under the second clause of ยง 2, act of
March 3, 1875.
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Ide, 114 U. S. 52 ; Putnam v. Ingraham, 114 U. S. 57 ; and Pirle v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, affirmed.

These were appeals from orders of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed from a State court under
the act of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, 18 Stat. 470. The questions
to be decided arose on the following facts:
The Mayor, Aldermen and Commonalty of the City of New
York, a municipal corporation of the State of New York, com-

monly called the City of New York, brought a suit in equity on
or about the 11th of August, 1884, in the Superior Court of the
City of :New York, against John H. Starin, Independent Steamboat Company, Starin's City, River and Harbor Transportation
Company of New York, New York and Staten Island Steamboat Company, David Manning, Franklin Wilson, William
Clark, John G. Belknap, James B. Corwin, Max Golden, Sam-

STARIN v. NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.

uel Underhill, and Frank Smith, to restrain them from using
and employing the steam ferry-boats Pomona, D. R. Martin,
Laura M. Starin, and Castleton, or any other vessel or vessels
of any kind, for and in the transportation of persons, animals,
vehicles, freight, goods, and chattels from or to Pier No. 18,
North River, or from or to any place in Manhattan Island to
or from certain landing places on the shore of Staten Island,
without the license or permission of the plaintiffs; and also for
an account of moneys received by the defendants, or any or
either of them, for such transportation. Both Manhattan
Island and Staten Island are in the State of New York. The
cause of action as stated in the complaint was, that the city,
under its charter, granted originally January 15, 1730, by the
Province of New York, and since confirmed by the State of
New York, has the exclusive right of establishing ferries from
Manhattan Island to the opposite shores, in such and so many
places as the common council may think fit; that the defendants, without the permission of the city, had set up and were
maintaining a ferry between Manhattan Island and certain
landing places on Staten Island, and for that purpose employed
the boats above named; that the defendant Starin was the
owner of the Castleton and the D. R. Martin, and the person
chiefly interested in Starin's City, River and H~farbor Transportation Company of New York, which owns the Laura M.
Starin, and in the New York and Staten Island Steamboat
Company, which owns the Pomona; that while the business
was done in the name of the Independent Steamboat Company, that company was organized and incorporated through
his instrumentality and in his interest, and was composed of
but three persons, all of whom were in his employ and under
his control; that the incorporation of the company was a device for his own personal benefit; and that he was in fact the
person actually operating the ferry. The certificate of incorporation, a copy of which was attached to the complaint, showed
that the company was organized under the laws of New Jersey, July 26, 1884, with a capital of $5,000, divided into five
hundred shares of $10 each, all owned by three persons, for the
transportation of persons and property upon water as common

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

carriers for hire; that the principal part of the business of the
company in New Jersey was to be transacted in Jersey City;
and that the business out of that State was to be done in the
cities of New York and Brooklyn and the several villages,
landing places, cities and towns on the Hudson River, Staten
Island, and Long Island, in New York, accessible by water.
The defendants Starin, Independent Steamboat Company,
Starin's City, River and Harbor Transportation Company, and
New York and Staten Island Steamboat Company each filed
a separate answer to the complaint. All the other defendants, who were the masters or pilots or engineers employed
in running the several boats, united in one answer. The answers all contained substantially the same defences. They
admitted the ownership of the boats as set forth in the complaint, except that it was alleged the Castleton belonged to the
New York and Staten Island Steamboat Company instead of
Starin. They admitted the charter of the city, with words
purporting to grant certain rights as to the establishment of
ferries from Manhattan Island to the opposite shores, but denied that this grant extended to ferries between New York
and that part of Staten Island which borders upon the Kill
von Kull. They admitted that the several boats mentioned in
the complaint were run at stated times by the Independent
Steamboat Company, under the management of the masters
and engineers, without the license or permission of the city, for
the transportation of persons and property between Pier 18,
North River, which is on Mlanhattan Island, and certain landing places on the shore of Staten Island, making daily fourteen
trips, or thereabouts, but they denied that, in so doing, the
company either operated a ferry or usurped any franchise
belonging to the city. They also denied the allegations in the
complaint as to the connection of the defendant Starin with
the Independent Steamboat Company, and denied that Starin
was the person who was actually operating the boats.
The answers then alleged, "as a matter of special defence
under the laws of the United States "1. That the Independent Steamboat Company was a corporation, organized and incorporated under the laws of New

STARIN v. NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.

Jersey, for the purpose of transporting persons and property
by water, as a common carrier for hire, in and over the waters
of the Hudson River, Kill von Kull, Raritan Bay, and their
tributaries, between places on such waters in New York and
New Jersey, including Staten Island and Long Island, and
the cities of New York and Brooklyn; that the company chartered the boats in question from the several owners thereof,
and leased wharves and landing places in New York and on
the shore of Staten Island bordering on the Kill von Kull, for
the purpose of engaging in the business of transportation by
water between such wharves and landings.
2. That all the boats in question were enrolled and licensed,
under the laws of the United States for carrying on the coasting trade, as vessels of the United States, and that the individual defendants described as masters or engineers on the boats
are all licensed under the laws of the United States to act as
masters or pilots, or as engineers, on steam vessels upon the
waters traversed by the boats in question.
3. That for a number of years terminating in 1874 steamboats, similar to those operated by the company, and doing a
transportation business similar to that in which the company
is engaged, had been, without any license or permission from
the city, navigated from Pier 18, New York, to the landing
places on Staten Island made use of by the company, and
back; that large sums were realized therefrom, and that since
1874 this business has greatly increased.
4. That the waters of the Hudson River or bay of New
York, and the Kill von Kull, are waters of the United States,
and public and common highways of interstate and international commerce; that the steamboats as operated by the company do not constitute a ferry within the meaning of the laws
of the United States, or of the State of New York, or of the
city charter, but that the city seeks, under the cover of its
charter and by this suit, to establish in itself, as and for a
monopoly and as private property, the ownership of all rights
to carry on commercial intercourse, consisting in the daily or
regular interchange or transportation of passengers and property between Manhattan and Staten Islands, over such waters,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellants,

and to obstrdct the navigation of such waters, although carried on by citizens of the United States in steam-vessels duly
enrolled and licensed under the laws of the United States, and
navigated by masters, pilots and engineers duly licensed under
the laws of the United States, thus practically nullifying the
laws of the United States regulating commerce and navigation.
After the answers were filed two petitions were presented
for a removal of the suit to the Circuit Court, one by all the
defendants, on the ground that the suit was one arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the other,
by the Independent Steamboat Company alone, on the ground
that there was in the suit a controversy wholly between that
company and the city as to whether the company "had or had
not the right to use and operate its steamboats" in the way
contended for, and that this controversy could be fully determined as between them.
A copy of the record in the State court having been filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States, that court remanded
the cause, and thereupon these appeals were taken, one by all
the defendants, and the other by the Independent Steamboat
Company alone. The two appeals were docketed in this court
separately.
.Ar. Roscoe Conkling, M1r. Jame.s
-c.Namee,
Mr. A. Z. Pin,cofs, and iibr. Charles .foffamee for appellants.-On behalf
of Starin and Others appellants the counsel argued in their
brief as follows: I. The rule governing jurisdiction is undoubtedly the same, whether the Constitution or a law of the
United States is involved in the case. As to that rule, it has
been already held by this court, "If a part of a case turns on
Federal law, the Circuit Court has jurisdiction." Osborn v.
Banke of United States, 9 Wheat. '738. "Cases arising under
the laws of the United States are such as grow out of the legislation of Congress, whether they constitute the right, or
privilege, or claim, or protection, or defence of the party in
whole or in part by whom they are asserted." Railroad Co. v.
.AXi.sissigpi, 102 U. S. 135. "Cases arising under the laws of
the United States within the meaning of the Removal Act are

STARIN v. NEW YORK.
Argument for Appellants.

such as grow out of the legislation of Congress whether they
constitute the right, claim, protection, or defence in whole or
in part of the party by whom they are asserted. If a Federal
law is to any extent an ingredient of the controversy by way
of claim or defence, the condition exists tipon which the right
of removal depends, and the right is not impaired because other
questions are involved which are not of a Federal character."
'T..eelw Union, Telegrapk Co. v. National Telegrapi Co., 19
Fed. :Rep. 561.
The removal is claimed in this case because the provisions
of the Constitution and Federal laws are ingredients of the
defence. If the question arises whether the privileges of a
ferry franchise granted by the city of iNew York came into
collision with the rights secured by the coasting license granted
by the United States, such a question is a Federal one, whatever this court may think of the merits of the question. See
Railway Co. v. Benwick, 102 U. S. 180, and Illinois v. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Railway Co., 16 Fed. IRep. 706. An
examination of the complaint will show that this action is not
brought to enjoin these defendants from simply running a
ferry in opposition to the one ferry actually established.
There certainly is a controversy, presented by the bill, as to the
right of the plaintiffs, in virtue of a private property right, to
absolutely prohibit these defendants from running any ferry
from any point on New York Island to any point on Staten
Island.
We claim that the question as to the respective rights of
the holders of a coasting license and the grantee of a ferry
right such as is claimed by the city of New York has never
been determined either by the decision in Conway v. Taylor,
1 Black, 603, or in any of the cases collected in Cardwell v.
B- hd'ge Co., 113 U. S. 205, 207. On its face a coasting license
does not contain any restriction ; it authorizes the running of
the boat as many times as is thought proper, and on the general ground that any express authorization to do certain acts
includes the authorization of the acts necessary to carry the
power into effect, it authorizes the holder to land his passengers and freight. Each limitation of these rights has to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellants.

justified by a superior right. If this superior right is claimed
by an individual in virtue of a grant by the State, and the
right of the State to grant that right is contested, this presents
a question, and as the court have always held, it is a Federal
question. All the different cases, involving the existence or
non-existence of such a superior right on the part of the State
have been decided by this court on the basis that they involve
Federal questions.
II. In the case at bar, the appellees, after alleging that they
have certain ferry rights, claim that these rights entitle them
to prevent regular transportation between the whole extent of
the shores of the islands of New York and Staten Island. This
claim, we reiterate, is not inadvertently made; it is a claim
which the city has of late years on several occasions sought to
enforce; the proceedings in the case of The .2ayorv. Clegg,
(not reported), which we append to this brief, show that the
city considers itself entitled to an injunction against the owner
of a boat which runs five times a day, from New York to Coney
Island, touching at Staten Island. Whether the right now
claimed exists in the city or not is the question raised in the
pleadings. Now, one of the main defences brought forward in
the case at bar is that the claims of the plaintiffs, as shown in
their complaint, to exclusive property rights respecting commercial intercourse between New York and Staten Island, in
virtue of what it calls its ferry rights, and their threats and
actual interference purporting to be authorized by such claims,
all of which are now before this court in this proceeding, have
actually abridged and materially obstructed such commercial
intercourse, causing great loss to this defendant in its business
and "inconvenience and delay to great nungbers of citizens residing and doing business in New Jersey and other States."
The point, in brief, is that the plaintiffs have broadly clained
the right to prevent all regular transportation between New
York and Staten Island, although carried on over links in interstate commerce; to this we interpose a defence that such a
claim, if established, would be an obstruction to interstate commerce, which must be "free and untrammelled," according to
the construction given by this court of the Constitution and

STARIN v. NEW YORK.

255

Argument for Appellant Independent Steamboat Company.

laws as they now exist. This defence is entitled to a hearing
in the United States courts, as it stands, on the Constitution
and laws of the United States. It was recently held that Congress had power to regulate navigation, even if it is concerned
exclusively with the domestic commerce of the State. United
,S'ta's v. .Bulingtonand Henderson County Ferry Co., 21 Fed.
rep. 331, 339. It would naturally follow that in such a case
the Federal courts would enjoin and refuse to enforce any
State regulation or grant which would amount to an impediment of the freedom of such navigation.
On behalf of the Independent Steamboat Company, counsel
made the following points :
I. The complaint, if construed most favorably to the plaintiffs, charges the defendants with combining to run a ferry between New York and Staten Island, and that they have together run such a ferry, thus infringing on exclusive ferry
rights of the plaintiffs. Taking this view of the complaint, for
the sake of the argument, we claim that such a state of facts
does not change the nature of the action as it affects each defendant, or compel a decision that there is but one controversy
in the suit and that such sole controversy affects all the defendants jointly and only jointly. The action, being in tort, is in
its nature several, notwithstanding allegations charging combination. Skinner v. Gunton, 1 Wms. Saund. 230; Hutchhfs v. ilutelins, 7 Hill, 104; Jones v. Baker, 7 Cowen, 445;
Boyd v. Gill, 19 Fed. Rep. 145; WVood v. Davis, 18 How. 468;
Cju'neal v. Banks, 10 Wheat. 181,187; Cameron v. _McRoberts,
3 Wheat. 591 ; Smlith v. Rines, 2 Sumner, 338; Case of the Sewing
.Jfachine Companies,18 Wall. 553, 579; Yulee v. -ose, 99 U. S.
539, 545; Barney v. Lathan ,, 103 U. S.205; T'vedt v. Carson,
13 Fed. Rep. 353 ; Fraserv. Jennison, 106 U. S.191 ; Ayres v.
IMitwall, 112 U. S.187; Kerling v. Cotzhauzen, 16 Fed. Rep.
705; Peqple v. illinois Central Railroad Co., 16 Fed. Rep.
881 ; Lanygdon,v. Fogg, 21 Blatchford, 392 ; Hyde v. Ruble, 104:
U. S.407.
II. Assuming here, for the sake of argument, that the position taken by us in the preceding point is incorrect, and that,

OCTOBER TERAM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

where the plaintiffs allege that all the parties whom they have
made defendant have been guilty of the same wrongful act, the
right of removal is taken awVy if one of the parties defendant
is of the same State as the plaintiffs, we now claim that, under
the allegations of this complaint, the case is removable, as presenting a controversy wholly with the defendant Independent Steamboat Company.
In the first place, the prayer of the bill for the taking of an
account of the sums of money that have been received by any
or either of the defendants, and that they be adjudged to pay
over the same to the plaintiffs, shows that the plaintiffs do
not consider all of the defendants liable to the same extent or
for the same acts, and that they are pursuing them severally.
This makes the case removable under the doctrine laid down
on page 149 in Boyd v. Gill, above cited.
But if this were not so, still, as to the engineers and masters
who have been made parties to this suit, we need hardly urge
that the fact of their being citizens of the same State as the
plaintiff can in no way take away the right of removal from
this defendant. The record clearly shows that they are simply
servants and employees of the Independent Steamboat Company, and so nominal or formal parties here. That they were
simply nominal parties was admitted in the argument below.
In a suit to enjoin action by a railroad corporation, the president and directors were made parties and their citizenship was
interposed as a bar to removal. The court held them to be
not necessary or substantial parties in considering the question
of removal, but merely nominal parties whose joinder could
not prevent removal. Pond v. Sibley, 7' Fed. Rep. 129. For
a similar decision where the treasurer and directors of a corporation were made parties, see 7atck v. Chicago, 1Rock Island
& Pacific Railroad Co., 6 Blatchford, 105, 114.
-Mr. 7'.

TF .3fcFarlandfor aipellees.

MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he
continued:

STARIN v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

We will first consider whether the suit is one which arises
under the Constitution or laws of the United States; for, if it

is not, the order to remand wasiig'ht, so far as the removal
upon the application of all the defendants is concerned.
The character of a case is determined by the questions involved. Oslborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 73, 824.
If from the questions it appears that some title, right, privilege,
or immunity, on which the recovery depends, will be defeated
by one construction of the Constitution or a law of the United
States, or sustained by the opposite construction, the case will
be one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, within the meaning of that term as used in the act of
1875 ; otherwise not. Such is the effect of the decisions on this
subject. Oohens v. Tirginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 379; Osborn v.
Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 737, 824; The .Jfayor v.
Cocx)er, 6 Wall. 247, 252; Gold IFashing & Water Co. v. Keyes,
96 U. S. 199, 201; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257, 264;
Railroad Co. v. .JIississi2i,102 U. S. 135, 140; _Ames v.
Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 462; Eansas Paciflc v. Atchison Railroad, 112 U. S. 414, 416; Provident Savings Co. v. Ford, 114
U. S. 635, 641; Pacfci RailroadeemovalCases, 115 U.S. 1, 11.
The questions in this case, as shown by the pleadings, are,
1, whether the city of New York has, under its charter, the
exclusive right to establish ferries between Manhattan Island
and the shore of Staten Island on the Kill von Kull; and, if it
has, then, 2, whether the defendants have, in law and in fact,
interfered with that right by setting up and operating such a
ferry. The determination of these questions depends, 1, on
the construction of the grant in the charter of the city; and,
2, on the character of the business in which the defendants are
engaged. It is not contended that there is anything either in
the Constitution or the laws of the United States which takes
away the right from the city, if it was in fact granted by"the
original charter before the Revolution; or which defines what
a ferry is or shall be, or provides that enrolled and licensed
steamboats, managed by licensed officers, may be run on the
public waters as ferry-boats. without regard to grants that may
have been made by competent authority of exclusive ferry
VOL. cxv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

privileges; and that is not the defence set up in the answers in
this case. The question here is as to the extent of the ancient
grant made to the city, not as to the rights of the defendants
in the navigation of the waters of the United States irrespective
of this grant.
It is not pretended that the United States have in any
manner attempted to interfere with the power of a State to
grant exclusive ferry privileges across public waters between
places within its own jurisdiction. No attempt is made by the
city to control the use of the licensed and enrolled vessels of
the defendants or their licensed officers, in any other way than
by preventing them from running as a ferry between the points
named. They may run as they please, and engage in any
business that may be desirable, not inconsistent with the exclusive ferry rights of the city. The claim of the city is based
entirely on its charter, and it seeks in its complaint to control
only that part of the navigation of the public waters in question
which is connected with the establishment and operation of
ferries between New York and the specified landing places on
Staten Island. Although the prayer for judgment when taken
by itself may appear to go further, it must be construed in connection with the cause of action as stated in the complaint, and
limited accordingly. The defence is that the defendants are
not operating a ferry within the meaning of the charter, or, if
they are, that it is not such a ferry as comes within the monopoly
of the city. If they are not operating such a ferry, or if they
are, and it appears that the monopoly granted to the city does
not include ferries between New York and Staten Island on the
Kill von Kull, they must prevail in the final determination of
the suit. The decision of these questions does not depend on
the Constitution or laws of the United States. There is
nothing in the Constitution or laws of the United States entering'into the determination of the cause which, if construed one
way will defeat the defendants, or in another sustain them.
It remains to consider the removal on the application of the
Independent Steamboat Company alone. The suit is against
all the defendants jointly, on the allegation that, acting in
common, they are all engaged in violating the rights of the

STARIN v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

city by keeping up and maintaining the ferry in question. The
averment in the complaint is that the defendant Starin is in
reality the person actually operating the ferry, and that he
uses the other defendants as his instruments for that purpose.
It is conceded that the Independent Steamboat Company does
not own the boats running on the route. They all belong to
Starin or to companies in *'hich he is the person chiefly interested. The Independent Company was not organized until
a few days before this suit was begun. It has a capital of only
$5,000, and while it claims to have chartered the boats in question from their respective owners and to be engaged in running
them on the route, it does not deny that the other defendants
are directly interested in the establishment and maintenance of
the ferry, if it be one, which is being operated by and in the
name of the company. The only controversy in the case, as
stated in the complaint, is as to the right of the defendants to
keep up and maintain a ferry on the route in question. Upon
one side of that controversy is the plaintiff, and upon the other
all the defendants. There cannot be a full determination of
this one controversy unless all the defendants are parties. The
case as stated in the complaint makes Starin the principal defendant, and the Independent Company only an instrument
of his. The object is to prevent him, as well as the others,
from using these boats or any others they may own or control in the way these are being used. There is, according to
the complaint, but a single cause of action, and that is, the
violation of the exclusive ferry rights of the plaintiff by the
united efforts of all the defendants. The case is, therefore,
within the rule established in Loaisville & l askville Rail'oad
0'. v. de, 114 U. S. 52; Putnam v. Ingraharn,114 U. S. 57;
P',e v. Tedt, 115 U. S. 41, that a separate defence by one
defendant in a joint suit against him and others upon a joint
or a joint and several cause of action, does not create a separate
controversy so as to entitle that defendant, if the necessary
citizenship exists as to him, to a removal of the cause under the
second clause of ยง 2 in the act of 1875.
It follows that the case was properly remanded, and the
orders of the Circuit Court to that effect are
Affirmed.

