RICHTER v. UNION TRUST COMPANY.
Statement of Facts.

Without, therefore, deciding whether, if the members of the
syndicate should undertake to remove the complainant from the
control of the management of the mine without just cause, he
could have preventive relief in equity, we affirm the decree.
4fflb'rned.

RICHTER v. UNION TRUST COMPANY & Others.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE PENDING ON APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUlT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TBHE WESTERN DISRICT
OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted April 20, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

On the facts appearing in the averments in the motion and in the affidavits,
the court declines to order a commission to take testimony de beve esse:
there being nothing to indicate that the testimony could not be taken under
the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 866.

This was a motion to take testimony de bene esse in a cause
pending in this court, on appeal. The motion was founded
upon the affidavit of appellant that the bill below was taken
pro confevso as to the Union Trust Company; that the other
defendant demurred and the demurrer was sustained, and the
cause was here on appeal from the judgment dismissing the
bill on the demurrer; that it could not be reached for hearing
"until the lapse of at least two or three years from the present date;" that several witnesses, named in the affidavit, by
whom the appellant expected to make the case stated in his
bill, a copy of which was on file in this court, were aged and
infirm, and resided more than five hundred miles from the
place of trial of the cause; and that several of them were single witnesses to material facts in the cause, which facts could
only be proved by them. After stating in detail the names of
the witnesses, and the facts to be proved by each, the deponent
further stated that he had applied to the Circuit Judge in the
district from which the appeal was taken, under the provisions
of Equity Rule 70 for a commission to issue in the cause, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

take the depositions of the witnesses, which application had
been denied "because of doubts expressed by said judge of his
power to grant said commission, after said bill was dismissed
and the case appealed."
_Ir. J. P. Whitemore for the motion.
.r.

H. Wells opposing.

MR. CHIEF JusTIcE WArr delivered the opinion of the
court.
This motion is denied. Equity Rule 70 has no application to
this case, and the affidavits presented do not show such facts as
render it necessary for this court to make any special order in
the premises. Under Rev. Stat. ยง 866 "any Circuit Court, upoli
application to it as a court of equity, may, according to the uses
of chancery, direct depositions to be taken in perpetuam rei
memoriam, if they relate to "any matter that may be cognizable
in any court of the United States." There is nothing in the
motion papers to indicate that the appellant may not proceed
under this statute to take and perpetuate his testimony, if he
has reason to fear that it will otherwise be lost.

CRUMP v. THURBER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Submitted April 22,1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

A suit in equity brought by 0, a citizen of one State, against a corporation of
the same State, and T, a citizen of another State, and W, to obtain a decree
that C owns shares of the stock of the corporation, standing in the name of
W, but sold by him to T, and that the corporation cancel on its books the
shares standing in the name of W, and issue to 0 certificates therefor,
cannot be removed by T into the Circuit Court of the United States, under
ยง 2 of the Act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, because the corporation
is an indispensable party to the suit, and is a citizen of the same State

with 0.

