OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

it is not one brought on account of the deprivation of a right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution, within the
meaning of this provision.
The writ of error is
1)ismimed for want ofjuriscition.

CLAY COUNTY v. McA-LEER & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF IOWA.

STATES FOR THE

Argued November 18, 1885.-Decided December 7,1885.

Judgment was recovered in the Circuit Court against a county in Iowa, on

which execution was issued, which was returned unsatisfied. By statute
of Iowa the county was authorized to levy and collect a tax of six mills
on the dollar of the assessed value of taxable property, for ordinary county
revenue. The judgment creditor commenced proceedings in the same
court for a mandamus commanding the county officers to set apart funds to
pay the debt, or to levy and collect sufficient tax for the purpose. By the
pleadings it was admitted that the whole amount of the tax for a current
year was necessary for the ordinary current expenses of the county. On
an application by a judgment creditor of the county to compel the levy
of an amount sufficient to pay the judgment which was recovered in the
Circuit Court of the United States : Held, That on the facts pleaded and
admitted no case was made justifying a writ of mandamus.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
fr.

George G.

'riglitfor

plaintiff in error.

.2r.,Tohn Xitchell for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This record shows that Michael McAleer recovered a judg-

ment on the 21st of October, 1864, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Iowa, against Clay County,

for $9,12.50.

Upon this judgment sundry payments have

CLAY COUNTY v. McALEER.
Opinion of the Court.

been made, but there still remains due more than $5000.
When the debt in judgment was contracted, the power of the
county to levy a tax for ordinary county revenue was limited
to four mills annually on the dollar of the assessed value of
taxable property; afterwards this was increased to six mills,
which is the authorized rate now. On the 2d of May, 1881.
the administrators of the judgment creditor, he being dead,
petitioned the Circuit Court for a mandamus directing the
county "to set apart of the funds in their hands, and of the
revenues collected and to be collected for and during the year
1881, and to pay over the same in an amount sufficient to satisfy said judgment, interest, and costs, and, if the amount shall
not be sufficient, that then the defendant be compelled to levy
for the year 1882 an amount sufficient to pay the said judgment and interest and costs, and for such other relief as may
be proper in the premises." The answer states that the full
amount of taxes allowed by law for the ordinary revenue of
the county was levied for the years 1880 and 1881, and that
these levies were all required, and more too, for the proper
maintenance of the county government. It is also stated that
no part of the revenues for these years could have been devoted
to the payment of the judgment "without seriously impairing
the efficiency of said government." The answer concludes as
follows: "That the maximum levy for said purpose for the
year 1882 will not be sufficient to pay the ordinary current expenses of said county, and that no part thereof can be applied
for the payment of said judgment without seriously impairing
the efficiency of said county government." To this answer
the relators demurred, and, upon the hearing, the court ordered
"that the peremptory writ of mandamus issue commanding
the board of supervisors . . . forthwith to levy a tax of
one mill on the dollar of the assessed valuation of the property
of said Clay County . . . for 1882, and to be collected
with the taxes of the current year, 1882, and to pay the same
upon the judgment of relator, and that they levy and collect,,
and pay over a tax of one mill on the dollar each year until
relator's judgment, interest, and costs are fully paid." To reverse this judgment the present writ of error was brought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

It is conceded "that the court cannot order the board of
supervisors to levy a tax in excess of the amount provided by
statute in a case like the one under consideration." Such was
the effect of the decision of this court in United States v.
Macon County, 99 U. S. 582, and the courts of Iowa have uniformly held the same way. Cojfln v. .Davenvort,26 Iowa, 515;
Polk v. Iinet, 37 Iowa, 341; Iowa Railroadland Co. v. County
of Sac, 39 Iowa, 124. It is claimed, however, that the court
might properly order one mill of the six-mills tax authorized
by law to be levied separately from the rest, and set apart
specially for the payment of the judgment. It was said in
Beaulieu v. PleasantHill, 4 M['Crary, 554, that this might be
done where the full levy was not required to defray the current expenses chargeable upon the ordinary revenue fund, and
such is the *effect of Coy v. City of Lyons, 11 Iowa, 1. But
here the answer shows affirmatively that the whole of the sixmill levy of 1882 will not be sufficient to pay the ordinary current expenses of the county. No effort was made to have the
answer more specific and certain, so as to show what the whole
amount of the tax would be, and in what way it was to be expended, but the relators were content to go to a hearing upon
a general demurrer to the answer as it stood. We must, therefore, assume the fact to be that a special tax cannot be levied
to pay the judgment without embarrassing the county in the
administration of its current affairs.
It was held in East St. Louis v. United States ex rel. Zebley,
110 U. S.321, decided since the judgment in this case below,
that "the question what expenditures are proper and necessary
for the municipal administration is not judicial; it is confided
by law to the discretion of the municipal authorities. No
court has the right to control that discretion, much less to
usurp and supersede it. To do so, in a single year, would require a revision of the details of every estimate and expenditure, based upon an inquiry into all branches of the municipal
service; to do itfor a series of years, and in advance, is to attempt to foresee every exigency and to provide against every
contingency that may arise to affect the public necessities."
This, we think, disposes of the present controversy. It is true

CLAY COUNTY v. McALEER.
Opinion of the Court.

that was a case in which a bondholder was seeking payment
out of the ordinary revenue fund after the special tax authorized
by law to be levied for his benefit had been exhausted, but the
balance due him was just as much a charge on the ordinary
revenue fund as if there had been no other provision in his
favor. United States v. elark County, 96 U. S. 211. In Coy
v. Cioj of Lyons, supra, the municipal authorities had levied a
tax of five mills only, when by the charter they could have
levied ten mills. In this way they showed that the full tax
was not needed for current purposes, and the court was therefore free to require them to proceed with the execution of the
power which had been conferred by law, until the judgment
creditor was paid. But in Coffln v. Davenport, 26 Iowa, 515,
the same court held that "when the ordinary expenses of
carrying on the government of a municipal corporation require
all the proceeds arising from a tax, which is the full lirdit the
corporation is authorized to levy, it cannot be compelled to apply a part of such fund to the payment of a judgment held by
a creditor against it." The case of Beaulieu v. PleasantHill,
kupra, is to the same effect, for there the order was to levy the
special tax for the payment of the judgment, unless it should
be made to appear upon a further return that the power had
been already exhausted, and that the fund raised had been
properly appropriated.
It follows that the judgment of the court below ordering the
levy of a tax of one mill for the benefit of the relators, upon
the facts stated in the answer and admitted by the demurrer,
was erroneous, and that it must be reversed.
Te judgment isreversed,and the cause Temandedforfurther
proceedingsaccording to law.

