650

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

INEW ORLEANS GAS COMVPANY v. LOUISIANA
LIGHT CPMPMNY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued March 27, 30, 1885.-Decided December 7, 1885.

A gas company incorporated in 1835, with the exclusive privilege of making
and selling gas in New Orleans, its faubourgs and Lafayette, up to April
1, 1875, and another gas company incorporated in 1870, with a like exclusive privilege in New Orleans on and after that day, could, just before that
day, consolidate under the provisions of the act of December 12, 1874, of
the legislature of Louisiana, which provided that "any two business or
manufacturing companies now existing, whose objects and business are in
general of the same nature, may amalgamate, unite and consolidate."
A legislative grant of an exclusive right to supply gas to a municipality and
its inhabitants, through pipes and mains laid in the public streets, and
upon condition of the performance of the service by the grantee, is a grant
of a franchise vested in the State, in consideration of the performance of a
public service, and, after performance by the grantee, is a contract protected by the Constitution of the United States against State legislation to
impair it.
In granting the exclusive franchise to supply gas to a municipality and its inhabitants, a State legislature does not part with the police power and duty
of protecting the public health, the public morals and the public safety,
as one or the other may be affected by the exercise of that franchise by the
grantee.
The prohibition in the Constitution of the United States against the passage
of laws impairing the obligation of contracts applies to the Constitution,
as well as the laws, of each State.

The Louisiana Light and Heat Producing and Manufacturing Company, a corporation of Louisiana, was organized in the
year 1881, by H. S. Jackson, W. Van Benthusen, and their
associates, under a general law providing for the formation of
corporations for certain purposes, among which are the construction and maintenance of works for supplying cities or
towns with gas. These associates and their successors, transferees, and assigns, had previously been authorized, by an ordinance of the common council of New Orleans passed January
25, 1881, for the period of fifty years, and upon specified conditions, to lay mains, pipes, and conduits in the streets, alleys,

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO. 651
Statement of Facts.

sidewalks, bridges, avenues, parks, gardens, and other places in
that city, for the purpose of supplying the public with gas.
Among the conditions was one to the effect that the rights and
privileges defined in the ordinance were granted and accepted
without liability upon the part of the city to any other gas
company to which franchises had been granted by legislative
enactment. The consideration to be paid for these privileges
was the sum of $20,000.
The benefit of this municipal grant having been transferred
to the Louisiana Light and Heat Producing and Manufacturing Company, and that corporation being about to proceed
with the construction of its mains, pipes, and conduits, the
present suit was commenced against it and its directors in the
Civil District Court of the Parish of New Orleans, by the New
Orleans Gas-Light Company, which had been created, as will
be presently explained, by the consolidation of other corporations. The plaintiff claimed to be entitled, for the term of
fifty years from April 1, 1875, to the sole and exclusive privilege of manufacturing and distributing gas in that city by
means of pipes, mains, and conduits laid in its streets, to such
persons or corporate bodies as might choose to contract for the
same. The relief asked was a decree perpetually enjoining defendant from digging up the streets, and other public ways or
places of the city for the purpose of laying pipes, conduits, or
mains for supplying illuminating gas, and from asserting any
right to do so until after the lapse of fifty years from the latter
date.
An application for an injunction having been denied, the
suit was thereafter removed by the plaintiff into the Circuit
Court of the United States, upon the ground that it was one
arising under the Constitution of the United States. In the
latter court a bill was filed, so as to conform to the general
rules of equity practice.
A statement of the history of the corporations concerned in
the before-mentioned consolidation is necessary to a clear understanding as well of the grounds upon which the court below
proceeded, as of the questions argued in this court.
By an act of the legislature of Louisiana, passed April 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

1835, the New Orleans Gas-Light and Banking Company was
incorporated and was given "the sole and exclusive privilege
of vending gas-lights in the city of New Orleans and its faubourgs and the city of Lafayette, to such persons or bodies
corporate who may voluntarily choose to contract for the
same;" to which end it was authorized to lay pipes or conduits at its own expense in any of the public ways or streets of
those localities, having due regard to the public convenience.
The right was reserved to the city, after the expiration of forty
years, to buy such gas-works as the company constructed, and
pay for the same in city bonds. If the city declined to purchase, then its bonds, which the company had received in payment of its subscription of stock, were to be renewed for
twenty years.
By amendments of its charter made in 1845 and 1854, the
company's right to engage in banking, was, by its consent, withdrawn, and the remaining rights granted by the original act
were continued to the corporation under the name of the New
Orleans Gas-Light Company, to be enjoyed until April 1, 1875,
when its corporate privileges were to expire. This change was
made subject to the condition that the company should assume
all the debts and engagements of the original company, release
its claims against the Charity Hospital, and, during the continuance of its charter, furnish that institution with necessary
gas and fixtures free of charge. By amendments made in
1860 its charter was extended to April 1, 1895, the exclusive
privileges granted by the original charter not, however, to exist beyond the time fixed in the act of incorporation.
By an act approved April 20, 1870, another company, under
the name of the Crescent City Gas-Light Company, was incorporated.
The charter provided that that company, its
successors and assigns, should, for fifty years from the expiration of the charter of the New Orleans Gas-Light Company,
have the sole and exclusive privilege of making and supplying
gas-lights in the city of New Orleans, by means of pipes or
conduits laid in the streets, to such persons or bodies corporate
as might voluntarily choose to contract for it. By a subsequent enactment, in 1873, it was given authority to issue bonds

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

653

Statement of Facts.

to an amount not exceeding $1,000,000, secured by mortgage
of its works and property; and it was declared that the charter
of the New Orleans Gas-Light Company should expire on
April 1, 1875, from which latter date, and for the term fixed
in the act of 1870, the franchise and privileges granted to the
Crescent City Gas-Light Company were confirmed.
By a judgment rendered February 1, 1875, in a suit brought
by the Crescent City Gas-Light Company against the New
Orleans Gas-Light Company, and which involved their respective rights to manufacture and sell gas in New Orleans, the
Supreme Court of the State held, that the former company
"has the sole and exclusive privilege to make and s6ll illuminating gas in the city of New Orleans for fifty years from 1st
April, 1875 ;" also, that the act of March 1, 1860, extending
the charter of the New Orleans Gas-Light Company from
April 1, 1875, until April 1, 1895, "is unconstitutional and
void," as having a title that did not declare the object of the
act. The latter company was also enjoined from conducting
business after April 1, 1875, while the other company was
confirmed in its exclusive right, after that date, to manufacture
and distribute gas in New Orleans. Crescent City Gas-.ight
Co. v. Nvew Orleans Gas-Light Co., 27 La. Ann. 138.
The bill set out the foregoing facts, and alleged that during
February and March, 1875, the directors of the two companies,
by means of conferences with each other and with their respective stockholders, concluded to consolidate the two corporations under the name of the New Orleans Gas-Light Company, which should hold and enjoy the rights, privileges,
franchises, and property of each; that they determined the
amount of its capital, the number of directors, and the persons
to compose a board before an election; that the two boards
made an agreement, in writing, to which the owners of all
the stock of either company had assented; that there had
been no contestation by any stockholder of either of the
two corporations of the consolidation or consolidation agreement; that "there was a formal vote, comprising more than
three-fifths of all owners of stock, ratifying and confirming
the articles, and the agreement and certificate of consolidation

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

have been filed and recorded in the office of the secretary
of state;" that "the corporation thus organized and conducting business, from the 29th of March, 1875, has manufactured
and sold gas throughout New Orleans without question or
opposition," supplying the city, its officers, the officers of the
State, and the public generally, and collecting its monthly bills;
that there had been no suit by the State or the city questioning its capacity as a corporation, or its title to all the franchises, privileges, rights, or property in its possession; that
its possession of "the sole and exclusive right aforesaid has
existed from the agreement of the 29th of March, 1875 ;" that
the State regularly assessed the property of the corporation
and its franchise for taxation, and compelled it by suit to pay
such taxes on property amounting to $3,750,000, of which the
franchise was charged to be worth $1,250,000; and that the city
of New Orleans, in like manner, assessed the consolidated company, and required from it the performance of the obligations
of its charter in supplying gas throughout the city and on the
public streets and in public buildings ever since the beforementioned consolidation.
The defendants filed a demurrer and plea to the bill. The
case was determined upon the demurrer, which was sustained
and the bill dismissed, without any mention being made of the
plea.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the consolidation was
entirely without legal authority, and, consequently, that there
was, in law, no such corporation as the one which instituted this
suit. Upon that ground alone the bill was dismissed.
.23'. John A. Campbell and .r. TR7W= D. hipman for
appellant.
Xr. E. Howard. IcCaleb for appellee.
MR. JUsTIcE HAILA

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
The effect of the consolidation of March 29, 1875, is the first
question to be considered.

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

655

Opinion of the Court.

By an act of the General Assembly of Louisiana of December 12, 1874, and entitled "An Act to authorize the consolidation of business or manufacturing corporations or companies," it is provided: "That any two business and manufacturing corporations or companies now existing under general or
special law, whose objects and business are in general of the same
nature, may amalgamate, unite, and consolidate said corporations or companies, and form one consolidated company, holding
and enjoying all the rights, privileges, powers, franchises, and
property belonging to each, and under such corporate name as
they may adopt or agree upon. Such consolidation shall be
made by agreement in writing, by or under the authority of
the board of directors, and the assent of the owners of at least
three-fifths of the capital stock of each of said corporations or
companies, and a certificate of the fact of such consolidation,
with the name of the consolidated company, shall be filed and
recorded in the office of the secretary of state: Provided, no
such consolidation shall in any manner affect or impair the
right of any creditors of either of said companies. In the
agreement of consolidation the number of directors of the consolidated company shall be specified, and the capital stock may
be any amount agreed upon by the companies or corporations,
and set forth in the articles of consolidation."
It will be observed that a consolidated company formed
under this act acquires all the rights, privileges, and franchises
possessed by its constituent companies.
It is contended-and such was the view taken by the Circuit
Court-that, as the original New Orleans Gas-Light Company
had, until April 1, 1875, the exclusive right to manufacture,
and distribute gas in New Orleans, and as the like exclusive
right of the Crescent City Gas-Light Company did not come
into existence until that day, the latter was not, when the act
of 1874 was passed, an "existing" business or manufacturing
corporation entitled to the privilege of consolidating with
another company.
In this interpretation of the statute we do not concur. The
original and amended charters of the Crescent City Gas-Light
Company invested it with powers of an important character,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

capable of being effectively exerted prior to the passage of the
general statute of 1874. By the act of April 20, 1870, it was
authorized, after its passage, to lay pipes or conduits in any of
the streets or alleys of the city of New Orleans. Upon its
organization, it was entitled to acquire and hold property for
all the objects of its creation, to construct works, purchase
machinery, provide materials, and make such preparations as
were required to put it in readiness to enjoy the exclusive
privilege, of supplying the cfty and its inhabitants with gas on
and after April 1, 1875. After its incorporation it could have
made contracts, obtained capital, and raised money upon bonds
secured by mortgage of its works and property then or
thereafter acquired. At the passage of the consolidation act
it was entitled to exert the powers given by its charter except
that it could not, before April 1, 1875, encroach upon the
exclusive privileges granted to the other company. With the
consent of the latter company, it could, even prior to that date,
have manufactured and sold gas to the city and to its inhabitants; for, as declared in the Civil Code of Louisiana (Art. 11),
"in all cases in which it is not expressly or impliedly prohibited,
they [individuals] oan renounce what the law has established
in their favor, when the renunciation does not affect the rights
of others, and is not contrary to the public good." Without
such consent, the Crescent City Gas-Light Company could
after its organization have engaged in the manufacture and
-distribution of gas in those parts or districts of New Orleans
not included in the charter of the old company. Pontchartrain
Railroad Co. v. ]2qfayette d PontchartrainRailroad Co., 10
La. Ann. 741. For these reasons, we are of opinion that, on
the passage of the act of 1874, and, within a reasonable interpretation of its language, the Crescent City Gas-Light Company was an "existing" business or manufacturing corporation,
entitled to "amalgamate, unite, and consolidate" with any like
corporation having objects and business in general of the same
nature. In so holding, it is not perceived that violence is done
to any considerations of public policy which could be supposed
to have prompted the act of 1874, or the legislation relating
to the two companies.

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

657

Opinion of the Court.

These views gite effect to the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State in Fee v. The NTew Orleans Gas-Light Cornzany, 35 La. Ann. 413, which was determined after the decree in
the Circuit Court had been passed. One of the questions related
to Fee's rights in the consolidated company by virtue of his
ownership of stock in the Crescent City Gas-Light Company.
The report of that case shows that the articles of consolidation
were before the court, and that their legal effect was considered with reference to the provisions of the act of 1874. Mr.
Justice Fenner, speaking for the court, said: "On the 29th
of March, 1875, the New Orleans Gas-Light Company and
the Crescent City Gas-Light Company, two corporations
chartered under the laws of this State, amalgamated, united,
and consolidated themselves into one consolidated company,
in pursuance of the provisions of an act of the General
Assembly, No. 157 of 1875, entitled 'An Act to authorize the consolidation of business or manufacturing corporations or companies.'
All requirements of the act
were fully complied with. . . . The articles of consolidation, and the legislative act by the authority of which they
were executed, evidently present a case of complete and perfect amalgamation, the effect of which was,'under American
authorities, to terminate the existence of the original corporations, to create a new corporation, to transmute the members
of the former into members of the latter, and to operate a
transfer of the property, rights, and liability of each old company to the new one. . .
These authorities, and the
reason of the matter, satisfy us that plaintiff can and must look
to the defendant company for the satisfaction of whatever
rights he had against the Crescent City Gas-Light Company,
in the mode and on the terms provided in the articles of consolidation." Again: "The law conferred upon three-fifths of
his fellow stockholders the power to effect a consolidation
without his consent, and even against his will, and he is bound
by that consolidation, and by the legal effects thereof, which
we have heretofore stated." If the view taken by the Circuit
Court be correct, then the consolidation between these companies could not, as adjudged by the Supreme Court of LouiVOL. cxv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

siana, have affected Fee's rights, and, compeled him to look to
the consolidated company for the satisfaction of his claims as a
stockholder in the Crescent City Gas-Light Company.
This brings us to the consideration of questions more difficult. It is contended that the right granted to the Crescent
City Gas-Light Company, of manufacturing and distributing
illuminating gas, and now enjoyed by the consolidated company, was abrogated, to the extent that it was made exclusive, by that article of the Constitution of Louisiana of 1879,
which, while preserving rights, claims, and contracts then
existing, provided that- "the monopoly features in the charter
of any corporation now existing in this State, save such as
may be contained in the charter of railroad companies, are
hereby abolished; " and, that such article is not in violation
of the provision of the Constitution of the United States
which forbids a State to pass a law impairing the obligation
of contracts.
These propositions have received the careful consideration
which their importance demands.
Itis true, as suggested in argument, that the manufacture
and distribution of illuminating gas, by means of pipes or conduits placed, under legislative authority, in the streets of a
town or city, is a business of a public character. Under proper
management, the business contributes very materially to the
public convenience, while, in the absence of efficient supervision, it may disturb the comfort and endanger the health and
property of the community. It also holds important relations
to the public through the facilities furnished, by the lighting
of streets with gas, for the detection and prevention of crime.
An English historian, contrasting the London of his day with
the London of the time when its streets, supplied only with oil
lamps, were scenes of nightly robberies, says that "the adventurers in gas-lights did more for the prevention of crime than
the government had done since the days of Alfred." Knight,
vol. 7, ch. 21; Macaulay, ch. 3. Municipal corporations constitute a part of the civil government of the State, and their
streets are highways, which it is the province of government by
appropriate means to render safe. To that end the lighting of

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

659

Opinion of the Court.

streets is a matter of which the public may assume control.
For these reasons, and the necessity of uniform regulations for
the manufacture and distribution of gas for use by the community, we are of opinion that the supplying of it to the city
of New Orleans, and to its inhabitants, by the means designated in the legislation of Louisiana, was an object for which
the State could rightfully make provision. Authority for the
position that the supplying of gas to a city and its people may
become a public purpose is found in Neiw Orleans v. Clark, 95
U. S. 644. That case involved the liability of a municipal corporation upon coupon bonds issued to a company which had
undertaken, for a valuable consideration, to light its streets
with gas. Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the
court, said: "A private corporation, as well as individuals,
may be employed by a city in the construction of works
needed for the health, comfort, and convenience of its citizens;
and though such works may be used by the corporation for its
own gain, yet, as they advance the public good, the corporation may be properly aided in their construction by the city;
and for that purpose its obligations may be issued, unless some
constitutional or legislative provision stands in the way."
p. 652. Legislation of that character is not liable to the objection that it is a mere monopoly, preventing citizens from engaging in an ordinary pursuit or business, open as of common
right to all, upon terms of equality; for, the right to dig up
the streets and other public ways of New Orleans, and place
therein pipes and mains for the distribution of gas for public
and private use, is a franchise, the privilege of exercising which
could only be granted by the State, or by the municipal government of that city acting under legislative authority. Dil]on's Municipal Corp., 3d Ed., ยง 691; State v. Cincinnati Gas
Co., 18 Ohio St. 262; see also Boston v. 1ichardson, 13 Allen,
146.
To the same effect is the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana in Crescent City Gas-Ligh t Co. v. _Ntew Orleans GasZight Co., 27 La. Ann. 138, 147, in which it was said: "The
right to operate gas-works, and to illuminate a city, is not an
ancient or usual occupation of citizens generally. No one has

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the right to dig up the streets, and lay down gas pipes, erect
lamp posts, and carry on the business of lighting the streets and
the houses of the city of New Orleans, without special authority
from the sovereign. It is a franchise belonging to the State,
and, in the exercise of the police power, the State could carry
on the business itself or select one or several agents to do so."
It will therefore be assumed, in the further consideration of
this case, that the charter of the Crescent City Gas-Light Company-to whose rights and franchises the presentplaintiff has
succeeded-so far as it created a corporation with authority to
manufacture gas and to distribute the same by means of pipes,
mains, and conduits, laid in the streets and other public ways
of New Orleans, constituted, to use the language of this court
in the case of the DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, "a
contract between the State and its corporators, and within the
provision of the Constitution prohibiting legislation impairing
the obligation of contracts," and therefore "equally protected
from legislative interference, whether the public be interested
in the exercise of its franchise, or the charter be granted for
the sole benefit of its corporators." See also Greenwood v.
Freight Co., 105 IT. S.13, 20; .Aew Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S.
104, 113.
But it is earnestly insisted that, as the supplying of New
Orleans and its inhabitants with gas has relation to the public
comfort, and, in some sense, to the public health and the public safety, and, for that reason, is an object to which the police
power extends, it was not competent for one legislature to
limit or restrict the power of a subsequent legislature in respect to tho~e subjects. It is, consequently, claimed that the
State may at pleasure recall the grant of exclusive privileges
to the plaintiff; and that no agreement by her, upon whatever
consideration, in reference to a matter connected in any degree
with the public comfort, the public health or the public safety,
will constitute a contract the obligation of which is protected
against impairment by the National Constitution. And this
position is supposed by counsel to be justified by recent adjudications of this court in which the nature and scope of the
police power have been considered.

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT 00.

661

Opinion of the Court.

In the Slaughter-House Ca8e8, 16 Wall. 36, 62, it was said
that the police power is, from its nature, incapable of any
exact definition or limitation; and, in Stone v. Xi&issippi, 101
U. S. 814, 818, that it is "easier to determine whether a particular case comes within the general scope of the power than to
give an abstract definition of the power itself, which will be in
all respects accurate." That there is a power, sometimes called
the police power, which has never been surrendered by the
States, in virtue of which they may, within certain limits, control everything within their respective territories, and upon
the proper exercise of which, under some circumstances, may
depend the public health, the public morals, or the public
safety, is conceded in all the cases. Gibbon.? v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, 203. In its broadest sense, as sometimes defined, it includes
all legislation and almost every function of civil government.
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31. As thus defined, we
may, not improperly, refer to that power the authority of the
State to create educational and charitable institutions, and provide for the establishment, maintenance, and control of public
highways, turnpike roads, canals, wharves, ferries, and telegraph lines, and the draining of swamps. Definitions of the
police power must, however, be taken, subject to the condition
that the State cannot, in its exercise, for any purpose whatever, encroach upon the powers of the general government,
or rights granted or secured by the supreme law of the land.
Illustrations of interference with the rightful authority of the
general government by State legislation which was defended
upon the ground that it was enacted under the police power, are
found in cases where enactments concerning the introduction
of foreign paupers, convicts, and diseased persons, were held to
be unconstitutional, as conflicting, by their necessary operation
and effect, with the paramount authority of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States. In Henderson &c. v. Mfayor of 2ew York, 92 U. S.
259, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, while declining
to decide whether in the absence of action by Congress, the
States can, or how far they may, by appropriate legislation
protect themselves against actual paupers, vagrants, criminals,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and diseased persons, arriving from foreign countries, said,
that no definition of the police power, and "no urgency for its
use can authorize a State to exercise it in regard to a subjectmatter which has been confided exclusively to the discretion
of Congress by the Constitution." p. 271. CAy Lung v.
-Freeman, 92 U. S. 275. And in Railroad Co. v. H-usen, 95
U. S.465, Mr. Justice Strong, delivering the opinion of the
court, said that "the police power of a State cannot obstruct
foreign commerce or inter-State commerce beyond the necessity for its exercise ; and, under color of it, objects not within
its scope cannot be secured at the expense of the protection
afforded by the Federal Constitution." pp. 4734.
That the police power, according to its largest definition, is
restricted in its exercise by the National Constitution, is further
shown by those cases in which grants of exclusive privileges
respecting *publichighways and bridges over navigable streams
have been sustained as contracts, the obligations of which are
fully protected against impairment by State enactments.
In Bridge Proprietors v. The Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, it
was decided that a statute of New Jersey empowering certain
commissioners to contract for the building of a bridge over
the Hackensack River, and providing not only that the "said
contract should be valid on the parties contracting as well as
on the State of New Jersey," but that it should not be lawful
"for any person or persons whatsoever to erect any other
bridge over or across the said river for ninety-nine years," was
a contract whose obligation could not be impaired by a law of
the State. Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the
court, after observing that the parties who built the bridges
had the positive enactment of the legislature in the very statute
which authorized the contract with them, that no other bridge
should be built, and that the prohibition against the erection of
other bridges was the necessary and only means of securing to
them the benefit of their grant, said: "WVithout this they would
not have invested their money in building the bridges, which
were then much needed, and which could not have been built
without some such security for a permanent and sufficient return
for the capital so expended. On the faith of this enactment

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

663

Opinion of the Court.

they invested the money necessary to erect the bridges. These
acts and promises, on the one side and the other, are wanting
in no element necessary to constitute a contract." p. 146.
In Tie Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51, the question was,
whether a charter granted to a company, authorizing it to
build and maintain a bridge across a river in New York for
the accommodation of the public, in consideration for which
it was given a right to take certain tolls, and providing that
it should be unlawful for any one to erect a bridge, or
establish a ferry, within a distance of two miles on that river,
either above or below that bridge, constituted a contract within the meaning of the Constitution. Under authority of a
subsequent statute, another company erected a bridge across
the same river, within a few rods above the old one, to the
injury of the business of the latter. The argument was
strenuously pressed that, while the legislature could dispose
of all matters properly the subject of bargain, it had no authority to dispose of the right of passing a great river for four
miles. The court held that the first company's charter was a
contract between it and the State, within the protection of the
Constitution of the United States, and that the charter to the
last company was, therefore, null and void. Mr. Justice
Davis, delivering the opinion of the court, said, that, if anything was settled by an unbroken chain of decisions in the
Federal courts, it was, that an act of incorporation was a contract between the State and the stockholders, "a departure
from which vozv would involve dangers to society that cannot
be foreseen, would shock the sense of justice of the country,
unhinge its business interests, and weaken, if not destroy, that
respect which has always been felt for the judicial department
of the government." p. 73. It was also observed, in language
applicable to the present case, in some respects: "The purposes
to be attained are generally beyond the ability of individual
enterprise, and can only be accomplished through the aid of
associated wealth. This will not be risked unless privileges
are given and securities furnished in an act of incorporation.
The wants of the public are often so imperative that a duty is
imposed on the Government to provide for them; and, as ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 188s5.
Opinion of the Court.

perience has proved that a State should not directly attempt
to do this, it is necessary to confer on others the faculty of doing what the sovereign power is unwilling to undertake. The
legislature, therefore, says to public-spirited citizens: 'If you
will embark, with your time, money, and skill, in an enterprise which will accommodate the public necessities, we will
grant to you, for a limited period, or in perpetuity, privileges
that will justify the expenditure of your money, and the employment of your time and skill.' Such a grant is a contract, with mutual considerations, and justice and good policy
alike require that the protection of the law should be assured
to it." See also *iestRiver Bridge Co. v. .Dix, 6 How. 507,
531.
The same principle was declared by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana in PontchartrainRailroad Co. v. Orleans3Tavigation Co., 15 La. Ann. 404, 413, where Chief Justice Martin said:
"In the same manner as Congress may reward the discoverer
of a new invention or mode of constructing roads, by an exclusive privilege, the legislature may reward those who employ
their capital and industry in doubtful enterprises, for the construction of a railway between two points, which may be of
great utility to the public, though the success of the enterprise
may be precarious." See also PontchartrainRailroad Co. v.
.Y'ew Orleans Railway Co., 11 La. Ann. 253; Pontchartrain
Railroad Co. v. Lafayette & PontchartrainRailroad Co., ubi
supra. And in Crescent City Gas-Light Co. v. NYew Orleans
Gas-Light Co., the court said: "As the legislature had the
right in 1835 to grant the sole and, exclusive privilege to the
defendant company to make and vend gas in iNew Orleans
for forty years, the legislature of 1870 had the same power to
confer on the plaintiff the same privilege for fifty years from
the termination of the grant to defendant. We therefore, conclude that the grant of the monopoly complained of does not
violate the Constitution and is valid."
Iumerous other cases could be cited as establishing the doctrine that the State may by contract restrict the exercise of
some of its most important powers. We particularly refer to
those in which it is held that an exemption from taxation, for

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

665

Opinion of the Court.
a valuable consideration at the time advanced, or for services to be thereafter performed, constitutes a contract within
the meaning of the Constitution. A&yluin v. _Yew Oreang,
105 U. S. 362, 368; Home of the F iendless, 8 'Wall. 430;
.rew Jer8ey v. MlW7son, 7 Cranch, 164, 166; State Bank of
Oldo v. noop, 16 How. 363, 376; Gordon v. Appeal Tax
Court, 3 How. 133; Wilmington Railroad v. Reid, 13 Wall.
264, 266; Ilurpitreyv. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244, 248-9; Farrington v. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, 689.
If the State can, by contract, restrict the exercise of her
power to construct and maintain highways, bridges, and ferries,
by granting to a particular corporation the exclusive right to
construct and operate a railroad within certain lines and between given points, or to maintain a bridge or operate a ferry
over one of her navigable streams within designated limits; if
she may restrict the exercise of the power of taxation, by
granting exemption from taxation to particular individuals and
corporations; it is difficult to perceive upon what ground we can
deny her authority-when not forbidden by her own organic law
-in consideration of money to be expended and important services to be rendered for the promotion of the public comfort,
the public health, or the public safety, to grant a franchise, to
be exercised exclusively by those who thus do for the public
what the State might undertake to perform either herself or
by subordinate municipal agencies.
The former adjudications of this court, upon which counsel
mainly rely, do not declare any different doctrine, or justify
the conclusion for which the defendant contends.
In Beer Co. v. 3rassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, 32, one of the
questions considered was, whether the charter of a private corporation, authorizing it to engage in the manufacture of malt
liquors, and, as incidental thereto, to dispose of the product,
constituted a contract protected against subsequent legislation
prohibiting the manufacture of liquors within the State. The
Beer Company claimed the right, under its charter, to manufacture and sell beer without limit as to time, and without
reference to any exigencies in the health or morals of the community requiring such manufacture to cease. It was decided

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

that, while the company acquired by its charter the capacity,
as a corporation, to engage in the manufacture of malt
liquors, its business was at all times subject to the same governmental control as like business conducted by individuals;
and that the legislature could not divest itself of the power,
by such appropriate means, applicable alike to corporations
and individuals, as its discretion might devise, to protect the
lives, health, and property of the people, or to preserve good
order and the public morals. The prohibitory enactment of
which the Beer Company complained was held to be a mere
police regulation which the State could establish even had there
been no reservation of authority to amend or repeal its charter.
The case of Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659, 663,
is much relied on by counsel. But a careful examination will
show that it does not militate against the views here expressed.
A fertilizing company, having been authorized by its charter
to establish and maintain south of a specified ,line in Cook
County, Illinois, chemical and other works for manufacturing
and converting animal matter into an agricultural fertilizer and
other chemical products, claimed that its charter constituted a
contract the obligation of which was impaired by an ordinance
of the village of Hyde Park, where its works were established,
prohibiting under penalties the carrying of offal through its
streets from Chicago to the company's place of business. The
ordinance was based upon a statute passed after the date of the
company's charter, investing the village authorities with power
to define or abate nuisances injurious to the public health, and
to reg'ulate, prohibit, or license certain named trades or callings, and "all establishments and places where nauseous, offensive, or unwholesome business was carried on." It appeared
in proof that the company's factory was "an unendurable
nuisance to the inhabitants for many miles around its location;
that the stench was intolerable, producing nausea, discomfort,
if not sickness to the people; that it depreciated the value of
the property, and was a source of immense annoyance;" and
that the transportation of putrid animal matter by the company through the streets of Hyde Park "was offensive in a
high degree both to sight and smell." The decision was, that

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

667

Opinion of the Court.

the State, under her power to protect the public health, could
abate the nuisance created by the company's business notwithstanding its works had been established within the general
locality designated in its charter, and, consequently, the legislature could, at its discretion, amend the charter of Hyde Park
and remove the restriction upon its authority to abate nuisances, or invest it with power to regulate or prohibit business
necessarily injurious to the public health.
The same principles underlie the decision in Stone v. ifissis8ippi, 101 U. S. 814, in which it was held that any one accepting a grant of a lottery does so "with the implied understanding that the people, in their sovereign capacity and through
their properly constituted agencies, may resume it at aly time
when the public good shall require, whether it be paid for or
not," the only right acquired by the grantee being "a suspension of certain governmental rights in his favor, subject to
withdrawal at will." The business, for the protection of which
the contract clause of the Constitution was invoked, was declared by the court to be a species of gambling, wrong in its
influence, and tending to "disturb the checks and balances of
a well-ordered community." Touching legislation granting the
privilege of engaging in business of that character, the Chief
Justice, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "No legislature can bargain away the public health or the public morals.
The people themselves cannot do it, much less their servants.
The supervision of both these subjects of governmental power
is continuing in its nature, and they are to be dealt with as the
special exigencies of the moment may require. Government
is organized with a view to their preservation, and cannot
divest itself of the power to provide for them. For this purpose
the largest legislative discretion is allowed, and the discretion
cannot be parted with any more than the power itself." p. 819.
We are referred to Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co.,
111 U. S. 1,46, as authority for the proposition that the State
is incapable of making a contract protected by the National
Constitution, in reference to any matter within the reach of
her police power in its broadest sense. But no such principle
is there established. In that case the question was whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

a grant in 1869 to a private corporation of the exclusive privilege of maintaining a live-stock landing and slaughter-house,
within a certain part of the territory of Louisiana, embracing
the city of New Orleans-all slaughtering by others in that
city to be done at the establishment erected by that corporation-prevented the State, or the municipal government of the
city, acting under her authority, from thereafter opening to
general competition the right to maintain slaughter-houses and
live-stock landings. The majority of the court, in the Slaughter-House Cases, having determined that the grant was merely
a police regulation, designed to remove from the thickly populated part of New Orleans "noxious slaughter-houses and
large and offensive collections of animals necessarily incident
to the slaughtering business of a large city," and that the authority to do that rested upon the same ground as the power
to interdict in the midst of dense populations unwholesome
trades, operations offensive to the senses, building with combustible materials, and the burial of the dead, it was ruled in
the last case that the obligations of a contract could not arise
out of such a police regulation. So far from the court saying
that the State could not make a valid contract in reference to
any matter whatever within the reach of the police power,
according to its largest definition, its language was: "While
we are not prepared to say that the legislature can make valid
contracts on no subject embraced in the largest definition of
the police power, we think that, in regard to two subjects so
embraced, it cannot, by contract, limit the exercise of those
powers to the prejudice of the general welfare. They are the
public health and the public morals. The preservation of these
is so necessary to the best interests of social organization, that
a wise policy forbids the legislative body to divest itself of the
power to enact laws for the preservation of health and the
repression of crime," pp. 750-1. In that case, four members
of this court, while assenting to the doctrine that the State
cannot limit the exercise of her powers to the prejudice of the
public health and the public morals, concurred in the judgment
upon the general ground, among others, that the act of 1869,
giving exclusive privileges to the company, the validity of

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

669

Opinion of the Court.

whose charter, in that respect, was the matter determined in
the Slangqiter-Hou8e Case8, was not, in any just or legal sense,
an exercise of the police power for the preservation of the public
health, but, under the pretence simply of exerting that power,
was an invasion of the right of citizens, other than those interested in that particular company, to engage in an ordinary
business, open, to every one upon terms of perfect equality,
although, at all times, it was subject to such regulations in
respect of the locality and the mode in which it should be
conducted, as the State might establish.
The principle upon which the decisions in Beer Co. v. .JfassaehuettM, Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, Stone v. i88i8& Ip.i,
and Butcher8' Union Co. v. Crescent City Live-Stock Landing
Co., rest, is, that one legislature cannot so limit the discretion
of its successors, that they may not enact such laws as are
necessary to protect the public health, or the public morals.
That principle, it may be observed, was announced with reference to particular kinds of private business which, in whatever manner conducted, were detrimental to the public health
or the public morals. It is fairly the result of those cases, that
statutory authority given by the State to corporations or individuals to engage in a particular private business attended
by such results, while it protects them for the time against
public prosecution, does not constitute a contract preventing
the withdrawal of such authority, or the granting of it to others.
The present case involves no such considerations. We
have seen, the manufacture of gas, and its distribution for
public and private use by means of pipes laid, under legislative
authority, in the streets and ways of a city, is not an ordinary
business in which every one may engage, but is a franchise
belonging to the government, to be granted, for the accomplishinent of public objects, to whomsoever, and upon what
terms, it pleases. It is a business of a public nature, and
meets a public necessity for which the State may make provision. It is one which, so far from affecting the public injuriously, has become one of the most important agencies of
civilization, for the promotion of the public convenience and
the public safety.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

It is to be presumed that the legislature of Louisiana, when
granting the exclusive privileges in question, deemed it unwise
to burden the public with the cost of erecting and maintaining
gas-works sufficient to meet the necessities of the municipal
government and the people of New Orleans, and that the public would be best protected, as well as best served, through a
single corporation invested with the power, and charged with
the duty, of supplying gas of the requisite quality and in such
quantity as the public needs demanded. In order to accomplish what, in its judgment, the public welfare required, the
legislature deemed it necessary that some inducement be offered to private capitalists to undertake, at their own cost, this
work. That inducement was furnished in the grant of an exclusive privilege of manufacturing and distributing gas by
means of pipes laid in the streets of New Orleans for a fixed
period, during which the company would be protected against
competition from corporations or companies engaged in like
business. Without that grant it was inevitable either that the
cost of supplying the city and its people would have been
made, in some form, a charge upon the public, or the public
would have been deprived of the security in person, property,
and business which comes from well-lighted streets.
It is not our province to declare that the legislature unwisely
exercised the discretion with which it was invested. Nor are
we prepared to hold that the State was incapable-her authority in the premises not being, at the time, limited by her own
organic law-of providing for supplying gas to one of her
municipalities and its inhabitants, by means of a valid contract
with a private corporation of her own creation. We may re.
peat here what was said by Chief-Justice Taney in Ohio
.Life Insl'kance & Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 415, in reference to the authority of a State to limit the exercise of its
power of taxation: "But whether such contracts should be
made or not is exclusively for the consideration of the State.
It is the exercise of an undoubted power of sovereignty which
has not been surrendered by the adoption of the Constitution
of the United States, and over which this court has no control.
For it can never be maintained in any tribunal in this country

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

671

Opinion of the Court.

that the people of a State, in the exercise of the powers of
sovereignty, can be restrained within narrower limits than that
fixed by the Constitution of the United States, upon the ground
that they make contracts ruinous or injurious to themselves.
The principle that they are the best judges of what is for their
own interest is the foundation of our political institutions. It
is equally clear, upon the same principle, that the people of a
State may, by the form of government they adopt, confer on
their public servants and representatives all the power and
rights of sovereignty which they themselves possess; or may
restrict them within such limits as may be deemed best and
safest for the public interest." pp. 428-9. After observing that
the power of the State to make contracts may be indiscreetly
and, for the public, injuriously exercised, he proceeds: "Yet
if the contract was within the scope of the authority conferred by the Constitution of the State, it is like any other
contract made by competent authority, binding upon the parties. Nor can the people or their representatives, by any act
of theirs afterwards, impair its obligation. When the contract
is made the Constitution of the United States acts upon it and
declares that it shall not be impaired, and makes it the duty of
this court to carry it into execution. That duty must be performed." p. 429.
With reference to the contract in this case, it may be said
that it is not, in any legal sense, to the prejudice of the public
health or the public safety. It is none the less a contract
because the manufacture and distribution of gas, when not
subjected to proper supervision, may possibly work injury to
the public; for, the grant of exclusive privileges to the plaintiff does not restrict the power of the State, or of the municipal government of New Orleans acting under authority for
that purpose, to establish and enforce regulations which are
not inconsistent with the essential rights granted by plaintiff's
charter, which may be necessary for the protection of the
public against injury whether arising from the want of due
care in the conduct of its business, or from an improper use
of the streets in laying gas pipes, or from the failure of the
grantee to furnish gas of the required quality and amount.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The constitutional prohibition upon State laws impairing the
obligation of contracts does not restrict the power of the State
to protect the public health, the public morals, or the public
safety, as the one or the other may be involved in the execution of such contracts. Rights and privileges arising from
contracts with a State are subject to regulations for the protection of the public health, the public morals, and the public
safety, in the same sense, and to the same extent, as are all
contracts and all property, whether owned by natural persons
or corporations.
Whatever therefore in the manufacture or distribution of
gas in the city of New Orleans proves to be injurious to the
public health, the public comfort, or the-public safety, may notwithstanding the exclusive grant to plaintiff, be prohibited
by legislation, or by municipal ordinance passed under legislative authority. It cannot be said with propriety, that to
sustain that grant is to obstruct the State in the exercise of her
power to provide for the public protection, health, and safety.
The article in the State Constitution of 1879 in relation to monopolies is not in any legal sense an exercise of the police power
for the preservation of the public health, or the promotion of the
public safety; for, the exclusiveness of a grant has no relation
whatever to the public health, or to the public safety. These
considerations depend upon the nature of the business or duty
to which the grant relates, and not at all upon the inquiry
whether a franchise is exercised by one rather than by many.
The monopoly clause only evinces a purpose to reverse the
policy, previously pursued, of granting to private corporations
franchises accompanied by exclusive privileges, as a means of
accomplishing public objects. That change of policy, although
manifested by constitutional enactment, cannot affect contracts
which, when entered into, were within the power of the State
to make, and which, consequently, were protected against impairment, inrespect of their obligation, by the Constitution of
the United States. A State can no more impair the obligation
of a contract by her organic law than by legislative enactment;
for, her constitution is a law within the meaning of the contract clause of the National Constitution. R ailroad Co. v.

NEW ORLEANS GAS CO. v. LOUISIANA LIGHT CO.

673

Opinion of the Court.

.feOlure, 10 Wall. 511; Ohio Life me. & T. Co. v. Debolt,
16 How. 416, 429; Sedgwicek's Stat. & Con't. Law, 637. And
the obligation of her contracts is as fully protected by that
instrument against impairment by legislation as are contracts
between individuals exclusively.
lew Jersey v. WVilson, 7
Cranch, 164; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514;
Green,v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1; Toodruff v. Trapnall,10 How.
190 ; Woly v. .Xew Orleans, 103 U. S. 358.
If, in the judgment of the State, the public interests will
be best subserved by an abandonment of the policy of
granting exclusive privileges to corporations, other than railroad companies, in consideration of services to be performed
by them for the public, the way is open for the accomplishment of that result, with respect to corporations whose contracts with the State are unaffected by that change in her
organic law. The rights and franchises which have become
vested upon the faith of such contracts can be taken by the
public, upon just compensation to the company, under the
State's power of eminent domain. TFest River Bridge Co.
v. .Dix, itbi supra; Richmond &o. Railroad Co. v. Louisa
Railroad C., 13 low. 71, 83; Boston Water-Power Co. v.
Boston & TForcester Raib'oad,23 Pick. 360, 393; Boston &
Lowell Railroad Co. v. Saler & Lowell Railroad Co., 2 Gray,
1, 35. In that way the plighted faith of the public will be
kept with those who have made large investments upon the
assurance by the State that the contract with them will be
performed.
The demurrer to the bill of complaint should have been
overruled. Upon its averments the complainant was entitled to
a decree perpetually restraining the defendants, and each of
them, their servants, agents and employees, from the manufacture and distribution of gas in New Orleans, by means of
pipes, mains, and conduits laid in or along the streets and
other public ways and places of that city.
The decree dismissing the bill is 'eversed, and the cause renanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
VOL. cxv-43

