OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

due prosecution of an appeal, notwithstanding the survivorship
of others. If that should be so, the court can, with propriety,
direct that the appeal be dismissed, unless it be properly revived within a limited time. The House of Lords made such
an order in Blake v. Bogle, a note of which is found in Macqueen's Practice H. of L. 2-4. Here, however, there is no
need of a revivor that substantial justice may be done. The
decree below was against all the defendants jointly, upon a
joint cause of action. It affected all alike, and the interest of
the decedent is in no way separate or distinct from the others.
If the representatives of a deceased appellant voluntarily come
in and ask to be made parties, they may be admitted. Such a
course was adopted by the House of Lords in Thorpe v. 3attingleg, 1 Phillips, Oh. 200. In the present case, the representatives
of the decedent, although notified, do not appear.
It is proper, therefore, that the appeal shouldproceed under
the statute at the suit of the survivors, and an entry to that
effect may be made.

JACKS .

ELEINA.

SAME v. SAME.
IN E ROR TO THE SUPREE COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted November 2, 1935.-Decdded November 9, 15.

When it distinctly appears on the face of an opinion of a State court, which

by a law of the State forms part of the record, that the decision below was
properly put upon a ground that did not involve a Federal question,
although such question was raised there, this court has no jurisdiction in
error over the judgment.
Detroit City Railway Co. v. Guathard, 114 U. S. 183, cited and followed.

These were suits commenced in a State court of Arkansas,
praying in each case for a mandamus upon the defendants, a
municipal corporation, to compel the issue and delivery of
bonds of the municipality, on a subscription in aid of a rail-

JACKS v. HELENA.
Opinion of the Court.

road. Judgment below that the subscription was unauthorized and void, and refusing the writ. The causes were appealed
to the Supreme Court, where the judgment was affirmed, and
a written opinion entered on the record in accordance with the
statute of the State providing that "Every opinion of the Supreme Court shall be reduced to writing and be entered at full
length on the record, and be filed among the papers in the
cause to which it relates. The provisions of this section shall
apply as well to motions that .will dispose of a cause as to final
decisions." Ark. Stat. Revision of 1884, § 1318.
This writ of error was sued out to reverse that judgment.
The defendant in error moved to dismiss the cause and the
writ, ":Because, in the decision of this cause by the Arkansas
Supreme Court, there was not presented and decided adversely
to the claim of the plaintiff in error, any Federal question; the
judgment in said court against the claim of the plaintiff in
error being expressly based on the decision of a question other
than one of a Federal character."
.31r. f. T. Sanders and 25. James P. Clarke for the motion.
Xr1". J. C. Tappan and 3Er. J. J. .Hornoropposing.
Ml?. CnrFF JUsTICE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

These motions are granted on the authority of Detroit City
Jiailway Co. v. Gut/hard, 114 U. S. 133, and the cases there
cited. It appears distinctly on the face of the opinion of the
court below, which, by the laws of Arkansas, forms part of the
record, Rev. Stat. Ark. 1884, § 1318 [Gannts Dig. (1874) §§
1108, 1109], that the decision of the case was put, and properly
put, on a ground which did not involve a consideration of the
Federal question that may possibly have been presented by one
of the several defences set up in the answer of the city, to wit:
that the Constitution of 1874 prohibited the issue of the bonds
in dispute. In fact, it is intimated in the opinion, that, if the
case had rested on this defence alone, the judgment would have
been the other way.
.Dismissed-.
VOL. CX'V-19

