OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

VAN WEEL v. WINSTON & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued October 21, 22,123.-Decided November 2, 1885.
Unless transactions set forth in a bill in equity constitute a fraud or breach of
trust, for which the court can give relief, charges that the acts set forth
are fraudulent are not sufficient grounds of equity jurisdiction.
A bill in equity by a holder of railway mortgage bonds against the president
of the company, which alleges that the defendant received money from the
sale of the mortgage bonds, but does not aver that the creditor has obtained
judgment against the company upon his bonds, and that execution issued
on the judgment has been returned nulla bona, shows nothing entitling the
plaintiff to relief in equity as a creditor of the company.
The president of a railway company holds no fiduciary relation to mortgage
bondholders of the company which requires him as their trustee or agent
to see to the proper application of the funds received by the company from
the sale of the mortgage bonds, or to account to the bondholders for any
surplus from the proceeds of their bonds after constructing the works for
which they were issued ; his relations and duties in these respects are to the
company and its stockholders, not to creditors of the company.
A, as president of a railway company, and acting in its behalf, signed and
caused to be issued a circular inviting subscriptions to mortgage bonds of
the company issued for the purpose of constructing "a branch from the
main line to Atchison, Kansas, a distance of about fifty miles." The mortgage made to secure these bonds described the road as "the branch railroad of said party of the first part as the same now is or may be hereafter
surveyed and being constructed, and leading from the Missouri River
at a point opposite . . . Atchison . . . by the most practicable route, not exceeding fifty miles in length, to a junction with the main
line." The bonds were further secured by a second mortgage on the main
line. The branch road, as located and constructed, was only twenty-nine
miles in length. The first mortgage on the main line was subsequently
foreclosed, whereupon B, a holder of a branch mortgage bond, commenced
proceedings to foreclose that mortgage, which resulted in a foreclosure and
sale of the branch to C, also one of the bondholders. B then filed his bill
in equity against A personally, on behalf of himself and other holders of
the branch mortgage bonds, among whom was 0. The bill set forth the
above facts ; and the relief sought for was redress against an alleged fraud
in the representation that the proposed branch would be "about fifty miles
in length." On demurrer, Held:
1. That the representations in the circular were representations of the company, and were inno respect the personal representations of A.

VAN WEEL v. WINSTON.
Statement of Facts.
2. That the complainant had no right to rely on the statement concerning the
length of line as materially affecting his security.
3. That it was the duty of persons purchasing the bonds to look to the mortgage for the description of the property mortgaged to secure them.
4. That the description in the mortgage contemplated that if the best intercsts of the company should require a line shorter than fifty miles, the company should have the right to adopt it.
5. That the bill showed no right in the complainant to use the names of the
company or stockholders to obtain redress for a tort committed on them,
and no equities in these respects against A.
6. That the bill showed no privity between A and the bondholiers as to his
use of money which they had loaned to the company.

The original bill in this case was filed December 12, 1876.
The amended and supplemental bill, on which judgment was
rendered below, was filed May 22, 1880. Van Weel, an alien
holder of bonds of the Chicago and Southwestern Railway
Company of Iowa and Missouri, secured by mortgage on the
Atchison Branch of that road, was complainant. The railway
company, and Frederick H. Winston and Campbell, both
citizens of Illinois, were defendants. Winston was former
president of the company. The trustees of the mortgage of
the Atchison Branch, viz.: Burnes of Missouri and Dows and
Frederick S. Winston of New York, were also made parties
defendant, but were not served with process. Dows appeared
voluntarily. The other trustees did not appear. The bill
alleged that there were several intervening petitioners, joining
as complainants, among whom was one Johannes Berg, also a
bondholder. The bill, after setting forth the formation of the
company, and a business connection with the Rook Island Railroad Company, made sundry allegations respecting fraudulent
obtaining of the money of the complainants for the construction of the Atchison Branch, by the issue of a circular inviting subscriptions to the mortgage branch bonds. These averments are transcribed verbally in the opinion of the court, post,
pp. 239, 241, to which reference is made.
There was attached to the bill, as an exhibit, a copy of the
mortage of the branch road. It was recited in this mortgage
that the railway "company has acquired and now possesses
the right, under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

souri, to construct, maintain, and operate a branch railway from
the Missouri River, opposite the city of Atchison, Kansas, by
the most practicable route, not exceeding fifty miles in length,
to a junction with the main line of the said first party; and
whereas, the said first party has already commenced the construction of said branch line and stands in need of money to
complete the same."
The property mortgaged was described in the following language: "All and singular, the branch railroad of the said party
of the first part, as the same now is or may be hereafter surveyed, and being constructed and leading from the Missouri
River, in the State of Missouri, at a point opposite the city of
Atchison, in the State of Kansas, by the most practicable route,
not exceeding fifty (50) miles in length to a junction with the
main line of the railway of said first party, together with all
and singular the right of way for said branch road belonging
to the party of the first part," &c. There were several other
provisions in the mortgage, of which only the following are
material in connection with the opinion of the court. "The
said party of the first part hereby agrees to and with the said
parties of the second part that the amount of bonds issued hereunder shall not exceed in the aggregate the sum of one million
of dollars upon the whole of said branch line of railway from said
Missouri river to said main line of the said Chicago and Southwestern railway, a distance not exceeding fifty miles

....

Said

Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company further covenant
and agree that the money borrowed or procured for the purpose aforesaid, upon the security of said bonds, shall be faithfully applied to the building and completing of said line of
railway, and to no other purpose, and that said application
shall be made with due diligence."
The principal fraud (so far as considered in the opinion of the
court) was charged in the following language: "Your orator
further states that it was also untrue, and known to be untrue
by said Frederick HI. Winston, that said branch line was designed to be fifty miles in length, and therefore, with the intention to mislead and deceive the purchasers of said proposed
bonds, said branch was stated in said circular to be 'about'

VAN WEEL v. 'WINSTON.
Statement of Facts.

fifty miles in length, and your orator says that before said
circular was issued a contract had been entered into with one
H. M. Aller for building said branch, and said Winston then
knew it would not be over twenty-nine miles in length. Your
orator further states that it was untrue that it was intended
by said Winston that said line should pass through the counties of Buchanan, Clinton, and Platte, as stated in said circular; that said line did not, in fact, enter the county of Clinton;
but your orator states that said Winston, with intention to
deceive and mislead the purchasers of said proposed bonds,
caused a map to be attached to said circular, whereon the
junction of the branch and main line appeared to be near
Cameron, and showing that said branch would, of necessity,
pass through said Clinton county."
After making some other allegations referred to in the
opinion of the court, the bill further charged that the complainants and other purchasers of the bonds were induced by
these fraudulent representations to purchase them; that the
whole sum realized from their sale was first deposited with the
Rock Island Company, and then came into the hands of "Winston and his confederates" "in trust to be faithfully expended
in the building and completion of said branch road;" that the
parties who loaned the money for the construction of the branch
road were defrauded of their promised security to the extent of
twenty-one miles; that Winston, while acting as president, made
a large profit in the construction of the branch, the larger part
of which he converted to his own use, and the remainder divided
among confederates; that the road was not properly constructed;
that the branch road from the outset was substantially valueless;
that Winston, as president, did not faithfully apply the sums
received from the Rock Island Company, in the building and
completion of the branch road, but converted them to the use
of himself and associates; that the mortgage on the main line
was foreclosed at the instance of the Rock Island Company,
and the mortgaged property sold and conveyed to the purchaser at the forclosure sale; that the complainant then instituted his suit to foreclose the mortgage on the branch road,
and obtain judgment of foreclosure, and the mortgaged prop-

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

erty was sold under the foreclosure to Johannes Berg for
$10,000; that after these foreclosures the Southwestern Railway Company was divested of all its property, franchises,
power and capacity to carry on business as a railroad company, and to carry out the purposes for which it was incorporated ; that the Southwestern Company has failed to call to
an accounting Winston and his associates, although requested
by complainant so to do, with like allegations as to the trustees
of the mortgage, who were made defendants, but not served
with process; that these facts became known to complainant
only shortly before the bringing of this bill; that Winston had
fraudulently concealed from the complainant the fact of his
interest in the construction of said road, so that the same was
not discovered till shortly before the bringing of this suit; and
that sufficient bonds of indemnity had been tendered to F. S.
Winston, Burnes and Dows, trustees under the mortgage, with
a request that they should appear as defendants, and that Dows
had appeared, but the other trustees had refused and neglected
to appear. The relief asked for was the following: "That
the defendants, Frederick H=.Winston and George C. Campbell,
may be required to render a fall, strict, and exact account of
their and each of their transactions in relation to the business
of the Chicago and Southwestern Company, and particularly
the Atchison Branch thereof, from the 1st day of June, A.n.
1871, to the present date; that the amount of moneys, bonds,
stocks, subscriptions, lands, or parcels of land received or taken
by said Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company, or by
said Frederick H. Winston and Campbell, or either of them, in
connection therewith or in any way relating to said branch
railway, be ascertained; that all proper disbursements or expenditures of moneys, bonds, stocks, or other property, made in
the necessary construction of said branch railway, be also ascertained, and that the defendants, Frederick I. Winston and
Campbell, may be charged by the decree of this court to pay
the ascertained balance of receipts above proper expenditures;
and if it shall appear that said Winston or Campbell, or either
of them, have now in their possession or under their control
any of the bonds or stocks subscribed or donated in aid of

VAN WEEL v. WINSTON.
Statement of Facts.

said branch railway, and which by virtue of said contract or
otherwise became the property of said Southwestern Company; or if said Winston and Campbell, or either of them, or
if any other person or persons in trust for them, or either of
them, hold any lands, or parcels of land, or interests in either,
derived directly or indirectly through or by means of their,
or either of their connection with said railway or branch, or in
aid of the construction of said branch, that they be required
by the decree of this court to account for and surrender the
same as this honorable court shall hereafter direct. And that
if it shall appear that the said Frederick H. Winston and the
said Campbell, or either of them, misapplied and converted to
their own use any portion of the said fund so advanced by
your orator and the other purchasers of said bonds, as aforesaid, in trust to be expended in the construction of said branch
road, that they may be respectively charged with the amount
so converted and misapplied by them, as well as all other
amounts which they aided and caused to be applied for other
purposes than the building and completion of said road; and
that they be decreed to refund and restore the same to your
orator and the other purchasers of said bonds, by' whom or in
,whose behalf the said fund was so advanced as aforesaid; or,
if some other method of relief shall appear more consistent
with the character of this case, as it may be disclosed, your
orators pray that said defendants, Winston and Campbell, may
be required to pay into court the just and full sum due your
orator upon said bonds, assuming and declaring the same to
be due, together with the interest thereon, as in said bonds is
provided, and that upon such payment being made, together
with such further costs as may properly be imposed, your
orator may surrender his said bonds for cancellation, or otherwise, as may be ordered; and that your orator may have such
other and further or different relief as to equity shall seem
meet."
Winston demurred to this bill on the ground of nonjoinder
of indispensable parties; because other indispensable parties (F.
S. Winston and Burnes) had not been served with process;
that the bill was multifarious; that there was no privity be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellant.

tween complainant and defendant; that the complainant had a
complete and adequate remedy at law which he had not exhausted; that the complainant had no right to commence a
suit in his own name; that the supposed cause of action did not
accrue within five years next before filing the amended bill;
that the amended bill set up new causes of action; that when
the Southwestern Railway Company was first made party in
an amended bill, the alleged causes of action were barred; and
that the bill did not state a case for relief in equity. The demurrer of the defendant Campbell was to the like effect. The
railway company also demurred.
The cause was heard below, on the amended bill and demurrer, before Mr. Justice ilarlan, August 1, 1881. Ie held,
as to the alleged fradulent representations in the circular,
that if a fraud was committed the remedy was adequate at
law; that as to the alleged violations of duty by Winston as
president, and conversion to his own use of moneys realized
from sale of the bonds, the right of action was barred by the
statute of limitations; and that no trust was disclosed by the
bill to exempt the complainant from the operation of the
statute. The demurrers were accordingly sustained, and the
bill was dismissed. Whereupon the complainant appealed to
this court.
2X. William,i. _Jfoore [X,. .ames Z Edsall was with him
on the brief] for appellant.
I. The fund derived from the sale of the bonds was set apart,
by the covenant of the Chicago and Southwestern Railway
Company contained in the mortgage, as a trust fund to be
faithfully applied to no other purpose than the building and
completion of the road mortgaged to secure the payment of
the bonds sold to raise such fund.
II. The bill avers that the defendant, Frederick I. Winston,
obtained possession of this trust fund, and in violation of the
terms of the trust converted a large part thereof to the use of
himself and his confederates.
III. Equity has jurisdiction for the violation of a trust of
this character. This jurisdiction will be sustained when time,

VAN WEEL v. WINSTOn.
Argument for Appellant.

expense and multiplicity of suits will be saved thereby, as also
when the case contains an element of trust. Oelrichs v. Spain,
15 Wall. 211, 228; .lay v. Le Claire, 11 Wall. 217. This
does not belong to the class of trusts where courts of law have
concurrent jurisdiction with courts of equity, like bailments,
and cases where an action for money had and received can be
maintained. 1 Story Eq. Jur. ยง 60. An action at law for
money had and received, &c., could not have been maintained
by the holders of the bonds to recover the trust fund misappropriated. By the terms of the trust, this fund was not to be
repaid to the purchasers of the bonds. They merely had an
equitable right that the money should be expended in the
building of the road in accordance with the terms of the trust,
and thus give value to their mortgage security. Their interest
in the trust fund was an equitable interest. IMoreover, in order
to ascertain the amount of the unexpended balance of this
fund, which was misappropriated by the defendant Winston
and his confederates, there was involved an investigation of
the complicated accounts of the company, showing how much
was actually received as the net proceeds of the sale of the
bonds, and what portion thereof was expended in the construction of the branch road. There was no adequate remedy at
law. Equity will not decline jurisdiction because there may
have been some possible or partial remedy at law. See Boyce
v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210, 215; Oelricks v. Spain, above cited;
Watgoa v. gutlherland, 5 Wall. 74.
IV. The bill shows that the scheme to obtain and misappropriate this trust fund to the use of the appellees and their confederates, was planned and carried out by means of fraud. It
is true the fraud practised by Winston appears to have been
done by him while assuming to act as president of the raihoad
company. The circulars purported to be signed by him as president of that company; yet the bill shows that this fraud was
practised in order that he might convert this money to his own
use and advance his own personal interests. The fact that he
assumed 'to act as the president of the corporation in the perpetration of the fraud, will not screen him from personal accountability therefor. _Reed v. Peterson, 91 Ill. 288, 297; Arnot

OCTOBER TERMV, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

..
Biscoe, 1 Ves. Sen. 95; Seddon v. Connell, 10 Sim. 58, 86;
Salmon v. Ric wrdson, 30 Conn. 360. Equity has always jurisdiction in cases of fraud and misrepresentation. Jones v.
Bolles, 9 Wall. 364, 369.
V. Bondholders may maintain suit in their own names, and
obtain relief from a court of equity for a violation of the trust.
It is within the court's power to recover the fund from Winston
the trustee, who has wrongfully converted it to his own use,
and distribute it among the purchasers of the bonds according
to their respective equities. The general rule undoubtedly is
that a creditor must reduce his demand to judgment, and have
execution issued and returned nulla bona before he can call
upon a court of equity to aid him in its collection. Greenway
v. Thomas, 14 Ill. 271. This rule is based upon the principle
that equity will not interfere where there is a plain and
adequate remedy at law. But in the present case it is manifest
that there is not a plain and adequate remedy at law. The
debtor corporation is virtually extinct. Not only has all its
property been sold, but its very right to transact business, to
own and operate a railroad-its franchises-have also been
sold out under the mortgages. In the language of this court
in Rion, v. Railroad Companies, 16 Wall. 451: "It has been
stripped of all its property and effects, and only cumbers the
ground."
The corporation is virtually extinct. The sale of its property
and franchises amounts to a voluntary dissolution. Slee v.
Bloom, 19 Johns. 456; i]foore v. IFhitcomb, 48 Missouri, 543.
Frauds of the character set forth in the bill confer jurisdiction
in equity. Jones v. Bolles, 9 Wall. 364. The brief of the counsel also discussed at length the questions of multifariousness,
defect of parties, and statute of limitations, raised by the demurrers, but not considered in the opinion of the court.
.Ar.W. C. Goudy for appellees Frederick H. Winston and
executors of Campbell [Ar. lYelville 1T' Fulleralso filed a brief
for the appellee Frederick H. Winston].
MR. TusTion MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the

VAN WEEL v. WINSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Northern District of Illinois, dismissing the bill of Van Weel,
who was plaintiff below and is appellant here.
The original bill was filed December 12, 1876, and several
amended bills were filed, until, on May 22, 1880, complainant
filed what he calls his amended and supplemental bill, substituting it in lieu of his previous bill and amended bills.
The defendants named in this bill are the Chicago and
Southwestern Railway Company of Iowa and Missouri, Frederick H. Winston, and George C. Campbell, citizens of Illinois,
Calvin F. Burnes, a citizen of Missouri, and David Dows and
Frederick S. Winston, citizens of New York.
Mr. Van Weel describes himself as an alien, and a subject of
the King of the Netherlands, and a holder and owner of bonds
of the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company for 867,000 principal, and overdue interest on them to the amount
of $35,175. He brings this suit, as his bill alleges, not only
for himself, but on behalf of numerous other holders of the
same issue of bonds, whose names he gives, to the amount, including interest, of $671,000.
The bill was demurred to, the demurrer was sustained, and
a decree rendered dismissing it, from which this appeal is
taken.
The contest seems to be mainly between complainant Van
Weel on one side, and Frederick I. Winston on the other.
Calvin Burnes, a citizen of Missouri, has not been served with
process within the Northern District of Illinois, and has not
appeared by himself or attorney. The same may be said of
Frederick S. Winston, who is a citizen of New York.
F. H. Winston has demurred separately, and if the bill cannot be sustained against him it is obvious, from its character,
that it is not good against the other defendants. The Chicago
and Southwestern Railway Company also demurred.
The bill is a long one, the allegations are not classified, nor
the true foundations of relief very clearly stated. It is full of
the words fraudulent and corrupt, and general charges of conspiracy and violation of trust obligations. Mere words, in and
of themselves, and even as qualifying adjectives of more specific
charges, are not sufficient grounds of equity jurisdiction, unless

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the transactions to which they refer are such as in their essential nature constitute a fraud or a breach of trust, for which a
court of chancery can give relief. Ambr v. Choteau, 107 U.
S. 586, 590.
The charges in this bill on which relief is sought may be arranged under two heads:
1. Fraudulent misrepresentations of the defendant affecting
the character and value of the security on which the bonds in
question were negotiated.
2. The violation of certain obligations, in the nature of a
trust, which he assumed in regard to the security and ultimate
payment of the bonds.
A few of the most important matters applicable to both
these charges as found in the bill may be thus stated:
A company had been incorporated under the laws of Iowa
to build a railroad from the town of Washington in that State,
on the line of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad
Company, in a southwesterly course to the Missouri River, or
to the line of the State of Missouri in that direction. Another
corporation had been organized under the laws of Missouri to
build a railroad in that State, from a point opposite the city
of Leavenworth, in Kansas, to the Iowa State line, in the direction of the city of Des Moines in that State.
These companies were consolidated into one, under the name
of the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company, with the
declared purpose of building a single road from Washington
to the Missouri River, at a point opposite Leavenworth. Of
this company Mr. Frederick H. Winston became the president
and a member of the executive committee of its board of directors. The company issued bonds for $5,000,000, which were
guaranteed by the Rock Island Company, and made a mortgage on the entire line of its road to secure their payment.
The length of this line was 266 miles, and the money raised
on these bonds secured its rapid completion. In the mean time
another corporation had been organized in Missouri to build a
road from the Missouri River, opposite the city of Atchison in
the State of Kansas, to some point on the line of the Chicago
and Southwestern road. This road was called the Atchison

VAN WEEL v.

-INSTON.

Opinion of the Court.

Branch, and when the main branch of the Southwestern road
was nearly finished, lacking, as the bill avers, only fifty miles of its
completion, a consolidation was effected between the company
organized to build this branch road to Atchison and the original
Chicago and Southwestern Company, in which consolidation
the corporation retained the name of this latter company.
This company, as consolidated, at once determined to raise a
new loan of $1,000,000, to be used mainly for the purpose of
building the Atchison Branch road, on which but little, if any,
work had been done. As a security for the bonds of this loan,
they made another mortgage, which was a first mortgage on
the Atchison Branch, and a second mortgage on the main line.
These bonds were all sold, and the two lines of road completed
within a reasonable time; and it may as well be added, that
both mortgages were forfeited in a few years for non-payment
of interest, and the mortgages foreclosed by a sale of the roads
under two different foreclosure suits.
The charge of actual fraud against Mr. Winston grows out
of certain acts and representations made by him in connection
with the sale of these bonds by the Chicago and Southwestern
Company.
In order that no injustice may be done the complainant in
regard to his allegations on this point, the language of the bill
will be here given:
"Your orator further complains and states that the said
Frederick H. Winston and his confederates afterwards, to wit,
on or about the first day of June, A.D. 1871, contrived and
entered upon a scheme to secure a loan of the further sum of
$1,000,000, for the ostensible purpose of building a branch line
of road as hereinafter stated, but in reality to enable him and
his confederates to get control of, and convert to their own
use, a large part of the funds secured and advanced to build
said branch road. And to that end, said Winston, as president
of said Southwestern Company, caused a circular to be issued,
a true copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit 'A,' to
which reference is made as if it was incorporated herein, in
which, among other things, speaking as president of said Southwestern Company, he said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"'On the first day of May, 1871, the Chicago and Southwest.
ern Railway, from Washington, Iowa, to Leavenworth, Kansas, a distance of 266 miles-now finished and in operation, 216
miles-will be fully completed and opened for business under
the auspices and management of the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad Company. The two roads, thus under one
management, will constitute a through line and the shortest
through line from Chicago and the Great Lakes of the North
to the extreme Southwest. Congratulating our friends and
ourselves upon the prompt sale of our first issue of bonds, as
well as their present established market value, both in this
country and in Europe, we would present for sale, through the
financial agents of the company, a second issue, for the purpose
of constructing a branch railroad from the main line to Atchison, Kansas, a distance of about fifty miles.'
"Said Winston, after setting forth the advantages of Atchison as a commercial and railway centre; continued as follows:
"'To carry on the arrangements before stated, the Chicago
and Southwestern Railway Company have issued one thousand
bonds, dated June 1, 1871, each for one thousand dollars, due
thirty years after date, with semi-annual coupons annexed, at
the rate of seven per cent. per annum, principal and interest
payable in American gold coin, at the American Exchange
National Bank, in the city of New York; all of which are
equally secured by a first mortgage on the road to be built, its
assets, rights of way, earnings, and other property, as -well as
by a second mortgage upon the Chicago and Southwestern
Railway, its property and franchises.'
"It was further stated in said circular that said mortgage
would be 'a safe and reliable security,' the value of which
would be better appreciated by the fact that the 'Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company had already agreed
to lease, and would, when completed, operate the whole line '
on terms that would pay a handsome dividend to the stockholders, and ' which in no event' would be ' less than the interest on all the bonds outstanding,' and that the value and
security of the contract aforesaid was 'equal to a direct indorsement of the bonds' by the Rock Island Company.

VAN WEEL v. WINSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ccIt

was further stated in said circular:

"' The Chicago and Southwestern Railroad, for over two hundred miles west from Washington, is pointing almost directly
to Atchison, so that its extension to that place involves less
curvature than that of the established line to Leavenworth.'
'The Atchison Branch, through the populous counties of Buchanan, Clinton and Platte, offers railroad facilities to wealthy
agricultural communities, which in return must afford a heavy
and lucrative local traffic. Every tract over which it will pass
is a farm teeming with the abundant products of the famous
Platte purchase.' ' With the offering of the first loan of the
Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company, we were admonished, as the originators of a new enterprise, to avoid the language of eulogy and enthusiasm. Difficult as was the task to
those who knew its real merits, we have compensation now in
a final and complete success, far beyond any expectation we
dared to hope to excite by any statement in our former publication. Reviewing with a just pride all that was then written,
we feel authorized to claim the confidence of the numerous
friends, both in Europe and in this country, of the Chicago and
Southwestern Railway Company, to whom we have more than
verified all our statements.' 'To complete the connections of
the Chicago and Southwestern Railway, to extend its power
and usefulness, and to increase its business and earnings, by the
construction of the Atchison Branch, we now offer this loan,
and commend it to our friends as a safe and desirable investment.' Dated 'INew York, June, 1871,' and signed ' F. H.
Winston, President.'"
The falsehood and fraud in these representations is in the alleged fact that the branch road, when built, was only twentynine miles and not fifty, whereby the bondholders were deprived of the security of twenty-one miles of road which they
had a right to expect to make good their bonds, and that it
was known to Winston at the time that the road would not be
as long as thus represented, and would not go through all the
counties named. There was one of these counties in point of
fact not touched by the road.
The first observation to be made on this subject is, that cirVOL. OxV-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

culars, on which this allegation is founded, are exhibits to the
bill, and, in every instance, they are clearly the circulars of the
Chicago and Southwestern Railroad Company. They are
signed by Mr. Winston as president of that company, and purport to be issued from its office, and in the charging part of
the bill, copied above, and all through it, he is said "to be
speaking as president of that company." There is no allegaation anywhere that Winston ever gave his personal pledge or
statement to any one about to invest in the bonds of the company that the road would be fifty miles long, or any other
length. It is obvious, from the nature of these circulars, that
the branch road had not then been located, and Mr. Winston,
as an individual, could give no pledge on that subject which
would bind the company, nor could he do so as president of the
company. The road had yet to be located, and this could only
be done by the board of directors, of whom Mr. Winston was
but one of eight or ten.
A source of much safer reliance as to the security which
these purchasers of the bonds were getting, was the mortgage
given by the company. This of course was made and recorded
before the negotiation for the loan was commenced, and copies
of it accompanied the bonds when offered for sale. Every prudent man, knowing that this mortgage was his main security,
would examine it, or his agent would, before investing his
money.
In this mortgage or deed of trust, the trustees being David
Dows, Frederick S. Winston, and Calvin F. Burnes, the property
conveyed is described as "the branch railroad of said party of
the first part, as the same now is or maybe hereafter surveyed
and being constructed, and leading from the Missouri River, in
the State of 'Missouri, at a point opposite the city of Atchison,
in the State of Kansas, by the most practicable route, not exceeding fifty miles in length, to a junction with the main line
of the railroad of said party of the first part."
Whatever representation may have been made in the circulars
of the company was, according to all rules of evidence, superseded by this solemn instrument between the parties. If they
differed in any respect, the latter must be looked to as the

VAN WEEL v. W1ITSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

security on which the bondholders alone had a right to rely.
This instrument, so far from giving any pledge or assurance
that the branch road should be fifty miles long, or near that,
is careful to say it shall not exceed that length. The limitation
is in its length, not its shortness. The latter is provided for
by saying that it should be by the rnost practicableroute.
It is impossible to read this description of the line of road,
conveyed as security for the bonds, without seeing clearly that
the line was not yet located-that its future location was to
be governed by two considerations: 1. That it should be the
most practicable route between Atchison and the main line of
the road, and 2, that its length should not exceed fifty miles.
If the most practicable line, by which is evidently meant the
best working line for the company who was building it, should
require a shorter line than fifty miles, there is not the shadow
of a promise or suggestion that it should not be so long, and
no longer, as that required. But in the provision that its
length should not exceed fifty miles, there was a protection
against wasting the money received from the bondholders on
a long and unprofitable line of road made only for the benefit
of people living along that line.
But this line of road was not the only security fo the payment of these bonds. The mortgage included also the entire
main line from Washington to Leavenworth, 266 miles, which
was now nearly completed. This made a direct connection between the rich agricultural country of western Missouri and
the city of Chicago by means of the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Company, then a rich and prosperous corporation,
so deeply interested in this Southwestern Railway that it had
guaranteed $5,000,000 of the bonds of the company. It was
further stipulated in this mortgage or deed of trust that the
proceeds of the sale of these bonds should be placed in the
hands of the Rock Island Company, which should only pay
them out in the regular prosecution of the work. It was further provided in that mortgage that if any of these proceeds
remained with that company after the completion of the road
it should be paid over to the president or other authorized
agent of the Chicago and Southwestern Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

It cannot be doubted that this mortgage on the main line,
though a second lien, was regarded as an important part of the
security of the bondholders under it, and when taken in connection with the aid and interest of the Rock Island Company,
the precise length of the branch line could not have been held
to be very important. In fact, as the two lines belonged to
one company, and that company was liable for all the bonds,
it was obviously the interest of the bondholders and of the
stockholders that the branch line should be so located as to
make it add to the profits of the entire enterprise on which the
bondholders held a lien.
In regard to the allegation of fraud in this matter it is apparent1. That all that is charged against Mr. Winston is that he
signed or permitted his name to be affixed to a circular which
stated the probable length of the branch road, then unsurveyed
and unlocated, as about fifty miles.
2. That the place of junction with the Southwestern road,
which necessarily determined the length of the branch road,
was not described or mentioned.
3. That in the mortgage which was made on said branch
road, all that was said was, that it should not exceed fifty
miles.
4. That it is nowhere averred that the line was not properly
located, or that it should have been located otherwise.
5. That the security which the bondhplders had upon that
line and the other seemed to render the place of connection
between the branch and the main line unimportant, as regards
the security for their loan.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the complainants had no
right to rely on the statement concerning the length of the
line as materially.affecting their security, and that Mr. Winston committed no fraud in the part he took in that matter.
This view is reinforced by the admission of the bill, that the
branch road was completed mainly out of the money arising
from the bonds sold to plaintiff and others, and that several
years after both it and the main line had been finished and in
operation, both roads were sold under the two mortgages;

VAN WEEL v. WINSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

that the branch, line was sold under foreclosure proceedings
inaugurated by Van Weel, and was bought in for $10,000 by
Mr. Berg, one of Van Weel's associates as bondholder, and
that they now, as far as appears, own the road their money
was used to build.
Other transactions are mentioned as fraudulent, such as that
Mr. Winston converted some of the money arising from these
bonds to his private use, and not to the purposes of the
company. The answer to this is, that Mr. Winston came under no obligation to see to the application of this money as the
bondholders might think it ought to be applied. They had
bought their bonds, paid their money, and received their
security. The money so diverted was the money of the Southwestern Company, and not their money.
The wrong done by Winston in that matter, if wrong there
was, was done to that company, and not to the bondholders.
They had provided their own means of insuring the building
of this branch road, by disbursing the money through the
Rock Island Company, and it was successful. The road was
built. There was no privity between Mr. Winston and these
bondholders as to kis use of money which they had loaned to
the company, which was no longer their money. The error
which pervades the bill throughout is to treat this corporation,
to which the bondholders loaned their money, as if it had no
exstence, as if they had loaned it to Mr. Winston and held his
personal obligation that it should all be honestly applied, and
be responsible for the repayment of the loan. If Mr. Winston
cheated this company out of its money, the right to redress for
that wrong is in the company or in its stockholders. As a
creditor of the company, Mr. Van Weel has no right to interfere in the matter until he has a judgment against the company, with an execution returned nidla bona. He has not in
this suit shown any right to use the name of the company or of
its stockholders to obtain redress for a tort committed on them.
U ited S1tatev v. Union Paifi, Railroad Co., 98 U. S. 569, 614.
There are probably other allegations of fraud, but they are
no better founded than these, and we can give them no further
attention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

As regards the matter of trust, which is one of the grounds of
relief set up in the bill, we need not occupy much time in its
consideration.
The trustees in the mortgage, which is the only express trust
that we can find set out in the bill, were Frederick S. Winston,
David Dows, and Calvin Burnes, neither of whom resides within
the jurisdiction of the court, or has been served with process.
If, however, they were before the court, they are not charged
with any breach of the duty with which they were entrusted.
The application of the money arising from the mortgage
bonds was not by the mortgages entrusted to them, nor had
they any control over it after the bonds were sold.
It is not alleged that they refused to foreclose the mortgage
when it became forfeited by nonpayment of interest, or that
they failed to perform any duty imposed upon them by the
mortgage.
It is asserted, however, that Frederick H. Winston, as
president of the company, was bound to see that the money
raised on these bonds was used exclusively in the construction
of the branch road, and that, in this regard, he was a trustee
for the lenders of the money. We are unable to see any such
trust in the matter.
The contracting parties in regard to this loan were the
bondholders and the Southwestern company. The one became
debtor for the money loaned, the other became creditor. Mr.
Winston, as the president of the company, represented the
company, the borrower. The lenders desired a security for
the repayment of their money, which they obtained in the
mortgage, and their trustees in that trust were Dows, Burnes,
and F. S. Winston. They, in that instrument, undertook to
secure the building of this road out of the money loaned, by
requiring its deposit with the Rock Island Company, and its
disbursement, for that purpose, under its supervision. But if
the loan should produce more than was necessary for that purpose, what was to become of it? Was it to go back to the
lenders? There is no hint of the kind. It was impracticable
to do so, because the bond would, many of them, have changed
hands. As to the new owner, it would have been a mere

VAN WEEL v. WINSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

gratuity to return it. And the original lender had no interest
in the matter. Instead of'this, it is expressly declared that
the Rock Island Company could relieve itself of further obligation in the matter by payment to the president of the company.
When thus paid, did he hold it as trustee for the bondholders? If so, under what trust or what obligation? Could he
return it to the bondholders, with the bonds still outstanding
against the company? Or did he hold it merely as the representative of the company of which he was president? We
think it was clearly the money of the company, and could have
been used by it for the purchase of rolling stock, general equipment, or any other legitimate use of its own money.
This money belonged to the company. The road was built
-the only interest in the nature of a trust which the lenders
had attempted to protect by the control of the funds. The
obligation of Mr. Winston in the disposition of the money, if
any of it came to his hands, was to the company. If it was
lost it was the company's loss, not appellant's. If he improperly or fraudulently converted it to his own use, he was liable
to the company and not to the plaintiff in this suit. There
was no privity or trust relation between him and them in this
regard.
We think appellant has shown no right to relief in this suit,
that the demurrer was properly sustained, and the decree of
the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is, therefore,

