OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

is gone, and to restore it would be create a new contract for
the parties-a thing quite beyond the power of the legislature."
Cooley's Const. Lim., 3d Ed. [429]* 369. In my opinion the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas should be reversed.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HA.RLAw concurs in
this opinion.

BALTZER & Another v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA..
Argued November 18, 1885.-Decided December 7,1885.

To entitle a plaintiff to relief in equity on the ground of mistake or fraud, the
mistake or fraud must be clearly established.
On the voluminous facts in this case the court is of opinion that the plaintiffs
have not established any mistake or fraud which entitles them to the relief
for which they pray.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
X1r. Attorney-General and X1/. JoAn N
lants.

ta&plme for appel-

Xrt. -Ecinund-Rando~p Roimon~[-Y. Tlioma8 C. Fuller
was with him on the brief] for appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This bill was filed October 18, 1878, by Herman R. Baltzer
and William G. Taaks, the appellants, against the Raleigh and
Augusta Air Line Railroad Company, a corporation of the
MR. JUSTICE WOODS

State of North Carolina, and others, for a decree against the
railroad company for $93,615.62, with interest thereon from
November 2, 1868, that sum being the balance due them, as
the plaintiffs alleged, for iron furnished the Chatham Railroad

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD. 635
Opinion of the Court.

Company, whose name, on December 1, 1871, was changed by
an act of the legislature of North Carolina to the name under
which the company is sued in this case. The Chatham :Railroad Company was authorized to build a railroad from Raleigh
to the South Carolina State line. To help the company to
construct its road, the State of North Carolina, by an ordinance
of its convention passed on March 11, 1868, authorized its public treasurer to issue to the company bonds of the State for
$1,200,000, and by an act of its general assembly, passed August 15th of the same year, authorized the same officer to issue
to the company other bonds of the State for the additional
sum of $2,000,000. The bonds of both issues were for $1000
each, were payable in thirty years, and were secured by a like
amount of bonds of the company deposited with the public
treasurer, and were also secured by statutory liens and by
mortgages on the franchises and property of the company.
On September 1, 1868, the company had received the
$1,200,000 authorized by the convention, and on October 19,
1868, the company having complied with the conditions prescribed by the act of the general assembly, the $2,000,000 in
bonds of the State authorized by the general assembly were
delivered to it.
On September 1, 1868, the defendant, John F. Pickrell, who
was a resident of the city of New York, doing business in
Wall Street as a banker and broker, and being in good credit,
made an offer in writing in which he represented himself and
John D. Whitford, of North Carolina, to W. J. Hawkins, the
president of the Chatham Railroad Company, to do the entire
work on the Chatham Railroad, such as grading, superstructure, and masonry, and furnish all material for the same, including the iron rails, and to take the State bonds in payment.
This proposition was accepted *by resolution adopted by the
board of directors of the railroad company on September 4,
1868. The firm of Greenleaf, Norris & Co. and Charles Gould,
of New York, were interested with Pickrell and "hitford in
the performance and profits of the contract.
Having thus bound themselves to build the railroad and furnish the iron, Pickrell and Whitford began negotiations for

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the purchase of the iron with Schepeler & Co., a firm engaged
in the iron trade in New York. This latter firm asked Baltzer & Taaks, the plaintiffs, to join them in a contract to sell
the iron, which they agreed to do.
The parties, Pickrell and Whitford on one side, and Schepeler & Co. and Baltzer & Taaks on the other, met at the office
of the counsel of Baltzer & Taaks, in New York, and, in the
presence of and with the concurrence of the counsel, a draft of
the intended contract for the purchase and sale of the iron was
made. In the draft the names of Pickre]l and Whitford both
appeared as parties of the second part. This paper was taken
by Pickrell and Whitford, who said, so the plaintiffs alleged,
that they must send it to W. J. Hawkins, president of the
Chatham Railroad Company. Afterwards the paper was returned to Baltzer & Taaks, with various changes, among which
was the dropping of the name of Whitford, because he declined
to sign the contract as a party. From this paper the final
agreement between the parties, dated September 11, 1868, was
drawn up by the counsel of Baltzer & Taaks, and was dated
and executed September 11, 1868.
The introduction to this contract was as follows:
"This agreement, made this eleventh day of September, one
thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight, by and between Messieurs Schepeler & Company and Messieurs Baltzer & Taaks,
of the city of INew York, parties of the first part, and John F.
Pickrell, also of the city of Iew York, party of the second
part, witnesseth."
By it the parties of the first part agreed to sell and deliver
to the party of the second part, and the party of the second
part agreed to purchase and receive of the parties of the first
part, 10,000 tons of English or Welsh iron rails, at the pricetof
$79.36 per ton. The contract then proceeded thus:
"The iron is to be paid for as follows: The party of the
second part is to deposit with the Continental National Bank,
on or before the execution of this agreement, such an amount
of the bonds of the State of North Carolina as will, at the
market price on the day of deposit, be equal to the whole purchase-money for the said ten thousand tons of iron, and fifteen

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD. 637
Opinion of the Court.

per cent. in addition thereto, which margin of fifteen per cent.
is to be kept good until the full performance of this contract.
The said bonds are to be held by said bank, subject to the joint
order of the parties of the first and second parts and William
J. Hawkins, or his attorney, or the survivors of said parties
respectively. On the presentation of a warehouse receipt or
ship's delivery order for any lot of said iron, the party of the
second part and said William J. Hawkins, or the survivor of
them, are to join with the parties of the first part in drawing
an order on said bank, in favor of the parties of the first part,
for so many of the said bonds as will, at the market price
thereof on the day of drawing, equal the sum payable for such
lot of iron at the price of seventy-nine dollars and thirty-six
cents per ton as aforesaid, or pay that amount in money.
"Upon presentation of a bill of lading for any lot of such
iron placed on shipboard for transportation to the port of New
York or Norfolk, Virginia, the party of the second part and
the said Hawkins, or the-survivor of them, shall join with the
parties of the first part in drawing an order on the said bank,
in favor of the said parties of the first part, for so many of said
bonds as will, at the market price thereof on the day of drawing, equal the sum due for the iron mentioned in the bill of
lading, at forty-nine dollars and forty-six cents per ton; the
balance payable for such iron, namely, twenty-nine dollars and
ninety cents per ton, shall be paid in like manner on the arrival
of the vessel containing the same at the port of New York or
the port of Norfolk. Notice shall be given to the party of the
second part, or his personal representatives, of the arrival of
any ship containing iron, and he or they are to be ready to receive the same whenever ship is ready to discharge."
The contract further provided that "in the event of the
death of said party of the second part and no appointment of a
personal representative at the time notice is required to be
given," notice might be given to Hawkins, and "if at any time
the party of the second part, or his personal representative,"
or the said Hawkins or his attorney, or the survivor of them,
should refuse to join i drawing an order for the amount due
for iron, the parties of the first part might retain the ware-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

house receipt and sell the iron for which payment had been refused "for and on account of the party of the second part, or
his personal representatives," who should be liable to reimburse
the parties of the first part any loss from such resale, and
notice of intention to sell should be given "by depositing the
same in the general post office, in the city of New York, addressed to the party of the second part, or his personal representatives, or the said William J. Hawkins, in the event of
the death of the said party of the second part, and the nonappointment of any personal representative, in the city of New
York."
The contract also contained the following stipulation:
"It is understood that the said bonds are deposited as a fund
out of which to pay for said iron, and that the parties of the
first part are to have a lien on the same, for the faithful performance of this contract, on the part of the party of the
second part, but it is also understood that the parties of the
first part do not look solely to the said bonds for payment, and
if for any reason they should at any time fail to constitute a
fund for payment, the parties of the first part are nevertheless
to be paid for iron at the same rates and times as hereinbefore
provided.
"The party of the second part reserves the right to sell any
or all of the bonds deposited with said bank, and, in case of
sale, the money realized for the same, or a sufficient amount
to cover the price of all said iron, and fifteen per cent. in addition thereto, shall be placed with said bank on the same terms,
and represent the said bonds for all the purposes of this contract.
"The said bank shall deliver the bonds sold on the presentation and delivery of such joint order as aforesaid. The parties
of the first part shall have their election to draw, in payment
for iron, bonds, or money, the proceeds of bonds, if any shall
have been substituted in the place of bonds sold."
The contract concluded, and was signed and witnessed, as
follows:
"In testimony whereof the said parties to these presents

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD. 639
Opinion of the Court.
have hereunto subscribed their names the day and year first
hereinbefore written.
SCHEPELER & CO.,

By John T. Schepeler.
BALTZER & TAAXS,

By HI. R. Baltzer.
JOHN F. PIcrxELL.
"In presence of George H. Sturr."
The contract was, after its execution, acknowledged in the
city of New York, on September 2-4, 1868, by the parties who
signed it, before George H. Sturr, a notary public of New
York County.
Afterwards, but not on the same day, W. j. Hawkins executed a paper bearing the same date as the contract above
mentioned, which opened with the following recital: "Whereas
Messrs. Schepeler & Co. and Baltzer & Taaks and John F.
Pickrell have entered into an agreement of even date herewih,
by which means the said Schepeler & Co. and Baltzer & Taaks
agree to sell and deliver, on certain terms therein mentioned,
ten thousand tons of iron rails to the said John F. Pickrell."
By this second contract Hawkins stipulated as follows:
"That fourteen hundred bonds of the State of North Carolina,
each for $1000, numbered from 1600 to 3000, inclusive, which
are now on deposit in the Continental Bank of the city of New
York, subject to my order as president of the Chatham Railroad Company of North Carolina, shall remain on deposit in
said bank, subject to the joint order of the parties mentioned
in the said contract, as therein provided, while said contract is
being performed, for the purpose of providing for the paymenb
of said iron, and as security for the performance of said contract as therein provided; and I agree to unite in drawing the
orders therein provided for at the times and in the manner
therein set forth; provided, however, that it is hereby distinctly understood and agreed that whenever any delivery of
said bonds is to be made, and any order for such delivery is
required pursuant to said contract, I am to have the option and
right to pay in money the sum payable under said contract for

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the iron, in respect to which such delivery of bonds is required,
at the contract price;

.

.

and upon such money pay-

ments being made by me, I shall have the right to withdraw
from deposit the bonds which otherwise would have been delivered under said contract, and such bonds shall be delivered
to me by said Continental National Bank on the presentation of
such joint order as aforesaid, such option and right to be exer-

cised by me within five days after being notified in the manner
provided in the contract of the right of said parties of the first
part therein named to a delivery of bonds pursuant thereto.
"It is also hereby expressly provided that in case of loss of
the iron or any part thereof, on shipboard between the port of
shipment and the port of entry or delivery, all payments made
on account thereof are to be refunded by said Schepeler & Co.
and Baltzer & Taaks as soon as such loss is ascertained."
This contract was signed "W. J. Hawkins, President
Chatham Railroad Company."
These two contracts were designated in the record respectively as- " A" and "B."

On October 12, 1868, there were delivered to John F. Pickrell, by Schepeler & Co. and Baltzer & Taaks, under this contract with him, 630 tons of iron rails, and on November 2 following, in three lots, 2104 tons. The 630 tons delivered October 12, 1868, were paid for before any North Carolina bonds
were issued or received in New York, by the check of Greenleaf, Norris & Co. for $63,593.46. This more than paid for the
iron, and left a balance due Pickrell of $11,794.27, which was
3ettled with him afterwards. The three deliveries made on
November 2, the price of which was $167,098.73, were paid for
in part by the check of Greenleaf, Norris & Co. for $75,000,
which was cashed, leaving a balance of $92,098.73. For this
balance Baltzer & Taaks received from Pickrell, between November 2 and November 20, one hundred and fifty North
Carolina State bonds of $1000 each.
The validity of the bonds of the State of North Carolina, issued by authority of the ordinance of the Convention of March
11, 1868, and the act of the general assembly of August 15,
1868, having been questioned in the latter part of the year

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD. 641
Opinion of the Court.

1868, they became discredited, and both the railroad company
and Pickrell were embarrassed thereby. The contract between
Pickrell and the railroad company was changed, and the
length of the road to be built by Pickrell was, by contract
dated March 6, 1869, reduced. Under the contract as amended
he built the railroad from Raleigh to Hlaw River, a distance of
thirty miles, furnishing therefor the iron rails. The company
paid him in full for the rails and for constructing the road.
In consequence of the embarrassment resulting to Pickrell
from the discrediting of the North Carolina bonds, no iron was
received by him after November 2, 1868, from Baltzer & Taaks
on the contract of September 11, 1868; and on August 11,
1869, Baltzer & Taaks, by a letter of that date addressed to
Pickrell, released him, as far as they were concerned, "from
obligations of receiving any more iron under contract dated
1 th September; 1868, and," they added, "we consider the
same as closed." The balance sued for was, therefore, for iron
delivered on November 2, 1868.
The bill in this case was based on the assumption and averment that the Ohatham Railroad Company was a party to the
contract of September 11, 1868, designated "A," and that all
the stipulations therein made by Pickrell were made by him
for the railroad company, acting by its authority and in its behalf, and that the Chatham Railroad Company was the party
of the second part to the contract, and not Pickrell; that the
contract was to be construed together with and as a part of
the agreement of the same date, signed by W. J. Hawkins,
President Chatham Railroad Company, and designated "B ;"
and that, under the terms of these contracts, the railroad
company had purchased, and received, and used 2734: tons of
iron rails, on which there remained unpaid and due to the
plaintiffs the sum of $93,615.57, with inter'est from November
2, 1868.
The bill prayed that the contract "A" might be reformed
and corrected by the substitution of the name of the Raleigh
and Augusta Air Line Railroad Company, formerly called the
Chatham Railroad Company, for the name of John F. Pickrel, who, it was alleged, as the agent of said company, nomi;
VOL. cxv--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

nally signed such agreement, at its procurement and request,
and for its benefit and advantage, and that said agreement,
when so reformed, might be enforced as the agreement and undertaking of the railroad company, the same as if its name had
been signed thereto and its corporate seal affixed.
The bill further prayed for a decree against the Raleigh and
Augusta Air Line Railroad Company for the said sum of
$93,615.5(, and interest thereon from November 2, 1868, with
the right to enforce a first lien therefor on all the franchises,
estate, and property of the railroad company. The answers of
the defendants, under oath, were called for.
The railroad company answered under its corporate seal,
and Hawkins and Whitford under oath. Pickrell failed to
answer, and a decree pro confesso was taken against him. The
railroad company averred in its answer that it was not a party
to the contract of September 11, 1868, designated " A;" that
Pickrell was not its agent and had no power or authority to
enter into said contract, or any other contract for it; that
the contract "B" was signed by the defendant Hawkins to
enable Pickrell to carry out the contract "A," which he had
previously made with the plaintiffs, by which he expected to
procure the iron for the defendant company's road, and with
no purpose to become a party to the contract "A" or to bind
the railroad company thereby.
The answer of the railroad company further averred that
1Pickrell had paid the plaintiffs for all iron delivered by them
under their contract "A," and that the company bad paid
Pickrell for all work done and materials furnished by him,
including iron, under his construction contract with the company, and pleaded the North Carolina statute of limitation of
three years in bar of the plaintiffs' suit.
Whitford answered that when the contract "A" was made
and executed he was not the agent of the defendant company
to make or execute the same, or for any purpose, and did not
represent himself to be so to the plaintiff; and that he was not
a party to said contract or interested therein.
Hawkins in his answer denied that Pickrell was the agent
pf the defendant company, or that he had any authority to

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD. 643
Opinion of the Court.

make any contract in behalf of the company for the purchase
of iron, and averred that Pickrell made the contract for himself to procure iron to perform his own contract with the railroad company. He denied that the contract "B," signed by
himself as president of the Chatham Railroad Company, was a
part of the contract "A," but averred that it was a separate
and independent contract, made by him to enable Pickrell to
pay for the iron which he had purchased from Baltzer & Taaks
and Schepeler & Co., and that the two contracts were not, at
the time of their execution, regarded by any of the parties
thereto as forming parts of the same contract, but as distinct,
each binding upon the party or parties signing the same, and
upon him or them alone, and that he had fully performed every
part of the agreement "B" signed by him.
To these answers replications were filed by the plaintiffs.
Upon final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and the
plaintiffs appealed.
It is plain that the relief prayed for by plaintiffs in their
bill of complaint cannot be granted unless they establish the
fact that the Chatham Railroad Company contracted with
them for the purchase of iron rails, and that the rails were
delivered by them to the railroad company and have not been
paid for.
The agreements set out in the-record do not show upon their
face any contract by which the railroad company agreed to
purchase iron rails of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs, however,
insist that taking contracts "A" and " B" together and construing them as one contract, an agreement of the railroad
company to buy ten thousand tons of iron from the plaintiffs
can be made out. We think otherwise. If both contracts had
been written on the same sheet of paper and executed at the
same time, that fact would not have changed the obligations
which the parties assumed. Reading both contracts, it appears
that the plaintiffs, the parties of the first part, sold and agreed
to deliver to Pickrell ten thousand tons of iron rails. Pickrell
agreed to receive the rails and pay for them at a certain price
in bonds of the State of North Carolina, and Hawkins, as agent
of the Chatham Railroad Company, agreed to join with the

644 •

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

other parties in an order for the withdrawal of the bonds from
their place of deposit, to be handed over to Pickrell, and by
him handed over to the plaintiffs. In this manner the debt of
the company to Pickrell, and the debt of Pickrell to the plaintiffs for the iron, would be paid. There is nothing in either of
the two contracts, considered separately or as one, which discloses any contract between the plaintiffs and the railroad
company for the sale and purchase of iron. On the contrary,
contract "A" is a contract for the sale and purchase of iron,
to which the plaintiffs and Schepeler & Co., on one part, and
Pickrell, on the other, were the only parties, and Exhibit "B"
opens with a recital of the fact that, by contract "A," the
plaintiffs and Schepeler & Co. had agreed to sell and deliver to
Pickrell ten thousand tons of iron rails. The railroad company
was not mentioned in contract "A," and all that it agreed to
do by contract "B" was to unite in an order for the bonds.
But the plaintiffs contend that the two contracts are to be so
read that Pickrell, who, according to contract "A," agreed to
buy and pay for ten thousand tons of iron, is not to buy the
iron or pay for it, or do anything which the contract requires
him to do, but that the railroad company, which is not named
as a party to it at all, is to do everything which the contract
requires of Pickrell.
On the theory that the two contracts were one contract, to
which the railroad company and not Pickrell was a party, the
inqiiry is pertinent, what was the necessity of its execution by
Pickrell at all, when it was signed by Hawkins, the president
of the company, and why should the railroad company, having
two agents fully authorized to make the entire contract, execute one part of it by one agent, and the other part by the
other?
In the light of the surrounding circumstances, the meaning
of the two contracts is plain and is not open to construction,
especially to a construction which relieves one party of all the
obligations assumed by him and puts them upon another, who
had not assumed them at all. Pickrell having made a contract
with the railroad company to construct its road and furnish
the iron therefor, and to take his pay in N~orth Carolina State

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD. 645
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, makes another with the plaintiffs for the iron and agrees
to pay for it with the same class of bonds which he was to receive from the railroad company. Now, in order to secure to
the plaintiffs their pay for the iron sold, and to Pickrell pay for
his work done and materials furnished, and to protect the railroad company from a misappropriation of its State bonds, the
contract "A" provided that, upon presentation of a warehouse
receipt or ship's delivery order for any lot of iron, all three
parties, the plaintiffs, Pickrell, and Hawkins, the president of
the railroad company, should join in an order for the withdrawal from the bank of so many bonds as would pay for such lot
of iron. It was because the railroad company was not a party
to contract "A " that the contract "B" was executed by Hawkins, its president, whereby he agreed to join in an order for
the withdrawal of bonds when the plaintiffs were entitled to
them by the terms of their contract " A" with Pickrell. It
is plain, therefore, that, as they stand, the contracts mean,
what their language imports, that Pickrell contracted with the
plaintiffs for the purchase of the iron, and the railroad company
did not.
Bat the plaintiffs contend that contract "A" should be reformed by substituting therein the name of the defendant railroad company the real party of the second part, for the name
of John F. Pickrell, and, being thus reformed, that they are
entitled to the further relief prayed in their bill.
To entitle the plaintiffs to this relief, they must show that the
name of Pickrell, as the party of the second part, was inserted,
and the name of the railroad company left out of the contract,
by mistake or fraud. In such a case, it is well settled that equity
would reform the contract, and enforce it, as reformed, if the
mistake or fraud were shown. Bradfard v. T7 Union Bank,
13 How. 57, 66; O'leil v. Teague, 8 Ala. 345. But the mistake must be clearly shown. If the proofs are doubtful and
unsatisfactory, and if the mistake is not made entirely plain,
equity will withhold relief. Shelburne v. Inchiquin,1 Bro. Oh.
338; Ilenkle v. R yal As&urance Co., 1 Ves. Sen. 311; Gilles.pie v. Moon, 2 Johns. Oh. 585 ; Lyman v. United .T
Co., 2
Johns. Ch. 630; Clopton v. .Aartin, 11 Ala. 187; Stockbridge

OCTOBER- TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"Iron Co. v. Hudson iron Co., 107 Mass. 290. Even without
the application of this strict rule the case of the plaintiff fails.
In the first place, there is no averment in the bill that the
name of Pickrell was inserted in the contract by mistake or
fraud for that of the railroad company, and, as far as the record
shows, the plaintiffs never asserted in any way that such was
the case until after the bringing of this suit, more than ten years
subsequently to the execution of the contract. The facts
already stated and not disputed show that there was no fraud
or mistake in drafting the contract. Both the original draft
and the final contract were drawn under the supervision of
counsel for the plaintiffs, and the latter was signed by the
parties on September 11, 1868, and nearly two weeks later was
acknowledged by them before a notary public. The record
shows that the plaintiffs, so far as the contract was carried out,
performed it precisely as its terms required. The iron delivered
was delivered to Pickrell, the payments made were made by
Pickrell and receipted for to him, the accounts in reference to
the business were kept in his name on the books of the plaintiffs, an over-payment made on the iron delivered was returned
to him, and a final settlement and adjustment of the business,
and a statement of the account of the plaintiffs with him arising out of the contract, was made nearly a year after the last
delivery of iron.
It is necessary, in order to sustain their contention that the
name of Pickrell was inserted in the contract when that of the
railroad company should have been, for the plaintiffs to show
that Pickrell was the agent of the railroad company, authorized
by it to make the contract, and that he used his own name in
the contract instead of the name of his principal. There is no
proof in the record to show that the defendant company ever
authorized Pickrell to act as its agent in any matter whatever;
on the contrary, it is established beyond question that Pickrell
was not the agent of the railroad company. The company
denies it in its answer; Hawkins, the president of the company, denies it; Whitford, the associate of Pickrell, denies it;
and Pickrell himself does not assert the contrary, and he
swears he did not, in purchasing the iron of the plaintiffs, rep-

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD. 647
Opinion of the Court.

resent himself or Whitford to be the agent of the railroad
company. There is no proof in the record which tends to
rebut this evidence; on the contrary, all the dealings of the
plaintiffs with Pickrell, the letters, accounts, payments, and
settlements relating to the contract "A," show that Pickrell
was acting for himself, and the plaintiffs so understood it, and
that the contract was what it purports on its face and in all its
provisions to be, namely, the contract of Pickrell, and not of
the railroad company.
If John F. Pickrell, party of the second part in contract
"A," means the Chatham Railroad Company, then the execution of contract "B" was a vain and futile act. It is only on
the theory that Pickrell, and not the railroad company, was
the party of the second part in contract "A" that the necessity
for contract "B" becomes apparent. For the railroad company having, according to the contention of plaintiffs, consented
to the method for the withdrawal of the bonds provided in contract "A," it was bound and protected thereby, and there was
no necessity for the preparation and execution of another contract, whereby the railroad company bound itself to substantially the same thing.
It is also apparent upon the most cursory reading of contract
"A," that the substitution of the name of the railroad company
for that of Pickrell would render several of its provisions
nugatory and impossible of execution, and the paper generally
incongruous and absurd.
But if anything further were needed to show how baseless is
the contention of the plaintiffs, that the name of Pickrell was
inserted in the contract '-A " in place of that of the railroad
company by mistake or fraud, it is found in the deposition of
Baltzer, one of the plaintiffs, who testifies that contract "A"
was prepared by the counsel of the plaintiffs, and that the contracts "A" and "B" express in exact words the final agreement of the parties with reference to the matters embraced
therein.
As, therefore, the contract expressed the agreement of the
parties, no court has power to change it. Courts of equity may
compel parties to execute their agreements, but have no

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

power to make agreements for them. Hunt v. Rousmaniere,
1 Pet. 1.
The evidence which was offered of the understanding between Baltzer and Pickrell that the covenants of Pickrell were
the covenants of the railroad company was inadmissible, first,
because it is a general rule that when a contract has been reduced to the form of a document or series of documents, no
evidence can be given of the terms of such contract, except the
document itself; and, second, the railroad company could not
be bound by the understanding of other persons to which it
was not a party. The only covenant of the railroad company
appearing upon the face of the papers was that contained in
contract "B," and that covenant Baltzer, one of the plaintiffs,
and Hawkins, who signed it as president of the railroad company, both testified had been fully performed.
The plaintiffs, therefore, fail in the first step necessary to
entitle them to the relief prayed by their bill; they show no
contract between themselves and the railroad company.
But their case must fail for another reason. The evidence
in the record shows conclusively that the plaintiffs were paid
by Pickrell, in accordance with the terms of their contract
with him, for all the iron bought by Pickrell and used by him
in the construction of the road of the defendant company.
It is not disputed that for the balance now sued for Baltzer
& Taaks received from Pickrell, between November 2 and November 20, 1868, one hundred and fifty North Carolina bonds
of $1,000 each. On November 20, they reported in writing to
IPickrell that they had'sold one hundred of the bonds at 64:
cents on the dollar, amounting to $62,493.40, and on November 21, that they had sold the remaining fifty bonds for 631
cents on the dollar, amounting to $30,996.82, "producing to"
his "credit " $93,490.22. The proceeds of the bonds, with the
over-payment made by Pickrell on the first lot of iron delivered, more than paid the amount due on the lots delivered No.
vember 2, 1868. On November 23, 1868, Baltzer & Taaks
stated their account with Pickrell, which showed there was
due to him on account of over-payment for the iron delivered
$937.44, and this sum they paid him on December 28, 1868.

BALTZER v. RALEIGH & AUGUSTA RAILROAD.

649

Opinion of the Court.

By a final balance-sheet, made out by themselves in September, 1869, more than ten months after the bonds were received
by them, and nine months after the North Carolina bonds
had, according to the averments of their bill, become discredited and of little value, they credited ?ickrell with the amounts
for which, 'on -November 20 and 21, 1868, they reported that
the bonds had been sold by them, and such balance-sheet
showed that they had been paid in full for all the iron furnished by them. There is no averment in the bill that the
plaintiffs did not sell the one hundred and fifty bonds as they
reported to Pickrell they had done, or that they still have them
in their possession, and there is no offer to return them either
to Pickrell or the railroad company. These facts, considered
in connection with the further fact that the contract for the
sale of the iron provided that payment therefor should be made
in North Carolina State bonds, leave no ground for the contention that there is anything due the plaintiffs from any one for
the iron furnished under contract "A."
Therefore, without considering the fact that the plaintiffs
have never, either in their bill or at any time, tendered back
the one hundred and fifty bonds of the State of North Carolina, which they admit they received on account of the iron
furnished, or the fact that Schepeler & Company, who were
parties to the contract on which the suit is based, are not made
parties plaintiff, and without considering the statute of limitations of North Carolina, which is pleaded by the railroad company, we are of opinion that the plaintiffs have failed to maintain their suit, and their bill was properly dismissed.
Decree affirmed.

