EHRIIARDT v. HOGABOOM.
Opinion of the Court.
to rebut the suspicions of dishonest and unlawful combination
to defeat the claims of honest creditors. It is sufficient, we
think, to say, that the proof falls short of that which the law
requires to establish so grave a charge.
It follows, that
Thle decree in favor of 7ames H. -Dunham,William T.. Bucicy, and Charles H. I'ebb, partners as Dunham., Buckley
& Co., must be reversed and the cause remanded,with directions to dismiss the bill as to them ; and it is so ordered.
As to all the other appellees, the appeal is dismissed.

E1RRITARDT v. HOGA300M.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted April 22, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

In an action of ejectment for lands in California, where the plaintiff
traces title to the lands from a patent of the United States issued to a settler
under the pre-emption laws, oral evidence is inadmissible on the part of
the defendant to show that the lands were not open to settlement under
tho~o laws, but were swamp and overflowed lands, which passed to the
State under the act of September 28, 1850.
It is the duty of the Land Department, of which the Secretary of the Interior is the head, to determine whether land patented to a settler is of
the class subject to settlement under the pre-emption laws, and his judgment as to this fact is not open to contestation, in an action at law, by a
mere intruder without title.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.21r.J H. .. cune for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.

M . TUsTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for the possession of a tract of land in
Sacramento County, California, designated as the northeast

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

quarter of section six of a certain township, which is described.
The plaintiff below, the defendant in error here, deraigns her
title, through a patent of the United States embracing the demanded premises bearing date June 10, 1875, issued to one
Elkanah Baldwin, a settler under the pre-emption laws, and
his conveyance to her of the land patented to him. On the
trial the patent and the conveyance to the plaintiff were produced and given in evidence. The defendant thereupon admitted that he was in possession of twenty acres of the tract
covered by the patent, lying south of a certain fence, but contended that these twenty acres were swamp and overflowed
lands, which passed to the State of California under the act of
Congress of September 28, 1850. This character of the land
as swamp and overflowed he offered to prove by parol, but the
offer was rejected, and, we think, correctly. He did not connect himself in any way with the title to the twenty acres.
The certificate of purchase from the register of the State land
office, which he produced, related to different land-to what
constituted a portion of the southeast quarter of section six,
whereas the land in controversy is part of the northeast quarter of that section. He was, as to the twenty acres, a simple
intruder, without claim or color of title. He was, therefore,
in no position to call in question the validity of the patent of
the United States for those acres, and require the plaintiff to
vindicate the action of the officers of the Land Department in
issuing it. It does not appear that the twenty acres formed a
part of any land selected by the State or claimed by her as
swamp and overflowed land. A patent of the United States,
regular on its face, cannot, in an action at law, be held inoperative as to any lands covered by it, upon parol testimony that
they were swamp and overflowed and therefore unfit for cultivation, and hence passed to the State under the grant of such
land on her admission into the Union. In French v. Fyan, 93
U. S. 169, this Court decided that by the second section of the
swamp land act the power and the duty devolved upon the
Secretary of the Interior, as the head of the department which
administered the affairs of the public lands, of determining
what lands were of the description granted by that act, and

THE CHARLES MORGAN.
Syllabus.

made his office the tribunal whose decision on that subject was
to be controlling. And he was to transmit a list of such lands
to the Governor of the State, and at the latter's request issue
a patent therefor to the State. In that case parol evidence, to
show that the land covered by a patent to Missouri under the
act was not swamp and overflowed land, was held to be
inadmissible. On the same principle parol testimony to show
that the land covered by a patent of the United States to a
settler under the pre-emption laws was such swamp and overflowed land must be held to be inadmissible to defeat the patent. It is the duty of the Land Department, of which the
Secretary is the head, to determine whether land patented
to a settler is of the class subject to settlement under the preemption laws, and his judgment as to this fact is not open to
contestation in an action at law by a mere intruder without title.
As was said in the case cited of the patent to the State, it may
be said in this case of the patent to the pre-emptioner, it would
be a departure from sound principle and contrary to well-considered judgments of this court to permit, in such action, the
validity of the patent to be subjected to the test of the verdict
of a jury on oral testimony. "It would be," to quote the language used, "substituting the jury, or the court sitting as a
jury, for the tribunal which Congress had provided to determine the question, and would be making a patent of the
United States a cheap and unstable reliance as a title for lands
which it purported to convey." The judgment is, therefore,
.Afirned.

TEE CHARLES MORGAN.
APPEAL

FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 24, 1895.-Decided May 4, 1S5.

In case of collision on the Mississippi, if the facts show that the injured vessel
made the first signal, and that it was responded to by the offending vessel,
and that no question was made below as to its being made within the time

