GRANT v. PARKER.
Syllabus.

that Thomas set up no adverse claim, that in due time Fallon
got his patent, and this because under the law the United States
had the right to assume that no adverse claim existed. Having
failed to assert his claim he lost his title as against the United
States, the common source of title to all. The issue of the patent to Fallon was equivalent to a determination by the United
States, in an adversary proceeding to which Thomas was
in law a party, that Fallon had title to the discovery superior
to that of Thomas, and that consequently Thomas' location
was invalid. This barred the right of Thomas to apply to the
United States for a patent, and of course defeated his location.
From that time all lands embraced in his location not patented
to Fallon were open to exploration and subject to claim for new
discoveries. The loss of the discovery was a loss of the location. It follows that the court did not err in its instructions to

the jury, and the judgment is consequently
Affirmd.

GRANT v. PARKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TlE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued April 23, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1%5.
A syndicate, of which A and B were members, was formed to purchase a mine,
and it was agreed before the purchase, as a condition of A's subscription,
that he should "control the management of the mine." After the purchase
a board of directors was organized, of which A & B were members. At a
meeting of the Board, of which A had notice, resolutions were passed at the
instigation of B prohibiting the treasurer from paying checks not signed by
the president and vice-president, and countersigned by the secretary ; directing that all orders for supplies and materials from San Francisco should
be made through the head officer there; authorizing the vice president in
the absence of the president, to sign certificates of stock and other papers
requiring the president's signature ; and authorizing the superintendent of
the mine, in the absence from the mine of the president, to draw on the company at San Francisco for indebtedness accruing at the mine: Held, That
these resolutions were not inconsistent with the control of the mine by A.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
M r. TFhitaker X. Grant for appellant, submitted on his brief.
.lb'. John John8 [Nlfr. John NY. Rogers also filed a brief] for
appellee.
MR.CHIEF JUsTIcE Wirrn delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by a stockholder and director of
the Fresno Enterprise Company, a California corporation owning the Enterprise mine, against another stockholder and director, to restrain him "from attending any meeting of the
board of directors to enforce" certain resolutions passed at a
previous meeting, "which give the vice-president authority to
sign checks or certificates of stock," when the complainant, the
president of the company, is "not in the city of San Francisco,
or which authorize the superintendent to draw drafts on the
company when" the complainant is "not at the mine," and
also restraining the defendant " from voting on . . . five
thousand six hundred and sixty shares of stock issued to him
under the contract of 3d May, 1881, or any other shares of
stock owned by him, at any meeting of the stockholders for
electing directors or amending the by-laws ;" and "that on the
final hearing" the complainant "be decreed to have a continning proxy for said five thousand six hundred and sixty
shares."
The general ground on which the complainant seeks his relief is this:
In May, 1881, an association of capitalists, called in the bill
a "syndicate," to which both the complainant and defendant
belonged, bought 51,000 of the 100,000 shares of the capital
stock of the company, and in the contract under which the
syndicate was formed it was agreed that the complainant was
"to control the management of the mine." In the purchase
the complainant became the owner of 17,000 shares, and the
defendant of 5,660. Other persons divided the remaining
28,340 shares between them. The 49,000 shares not purchased

GRANT v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

were held by persons outside of the syndicate. At a meeting
of stockholders, held a few days after the purchase for the
election of directors, the complainant and the defendant, with
one other member of the syndicate, were elected directors, as
the representatives of the purchasers, and two others not in
the syndicate as representatives of the minority stockholders.
The complainant was elected presidefit of the board of directors
and general manager of the mine. The defendant and the directors who were elected in the interest of the minority stockholders seem to have been of opinion that some additional
rules for the government of the affairs of the company were
necessary, and so, as is alleged, by false representations the defendant, in December,. 1881, induced some of the members of
the syndicate to agree to the adoption of the following resolutions by the directors:
"Resolved, That the Bank of California, the treasurer of this
company, be, and is hereby, instructed to pay only such checks
as are signed by the president or vice-president and countersigned by the secretary.
"Resolved, That all orders for supplies and materials from
San Francisco for the company shall be made through the
head office in San Francisco, and payment for the same shall
be made by checks signed by the president or vice-president and
countersigned by the secretary, at the office in San Francisco.
"Resolved, That in the absence of the president from the
office of the company in San Francisco, the vice-president, in
accordance with the by-laws, be, and is hereby, authorized to
sign all certificates of stock that are legally issued by the
secretary, as well as all papers requiring the signature of the
president, if he were present at the office.
".Resolved, That in the absence of the president from the
mine that the superintendent at the mine be, and is hereby,
instructed to draw drafts on the company at San Francisco for
all indebtedness accruing at the mine."
These resolutions were adopted by the board on the 4th of
January, 1882, at a regular meeting held that day, of which
the complainant had knowledge, but which he did not attend.
A quorum of directors was present at the meeting and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant voted for the resolutions.

It was to restrain the

defendant from aiding the directors in the enforcement of
these resolutions, and from voting his shares acquired under
the syndicate contract, except in accordance with the will of
the complainant, that this bill was brought.
We are unable to discover any ground for equitable relief
in the case made by the bill. It is undoubtedly true that the
defendant was anxious to have the complainant interested in
the mine, and was willing to become one of a number of persons, of whom the complainant should be one, to purchase
enough of the stock to make the aggregate of their holdings a
majority of the entire capital of the company. It is also true
that the defendant, and all the other members of the syndicate,
yielded to the condition insisted on by the complainant that
"he should have the control of the management of the mine"
if the purchase of the majority of the stock was made, but this
was necessarily subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as should be adopted in a proper way, either by the stockholders or the directors, for the government of the conduct of
the officers of the company. No attempt has been made to
remove the complainant from his office of general manager.
He still "controls the management of the mine," so far as
anything appears in the bill. All that the directors have done
by their resolutions, of which complaint is made, is to prohibit
the Bank of California, the treasurer of the company, from
paying any checks of the company except such as are signed
by the president or vice-president and countersigned by the
secretary; to direct that all orders for supplies and materials
from San Francisco should be made through the head office in
San Francisco, and paid for in checks signed and countersigned
as above; to authorize the vice-president to sign certificates of
stock and all other papers requiring the signature of the president, when the president was away from the office, and authorizing the superintendent at the mine, in the absence of the
president, to draw drafts on the company at San Francisco for
debts incurred there. We see nothing in this inconsistent
with the control of the mine itself by the complainant "as if
he owned it."

RICHTER v. UNION TRUST COMPANY.
Statement of Facts.

Without, therefore, deciding whether, if the members of the
syndicate should undertake to remove the complainant from the
control of the management of the mine without just cause, he
could have preventive relief in equity, we affirm the decree.
4fflb'rned.

RICHTER v. UNION TRUST COMPANY & Others.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE PENDING ON APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUlT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TBHE WESTERN DISRICT
OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted April 20, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

On the facts appearing in the averments in the motion and in the affidavits,
the court declines to order a commission to take testimony de beve esse:
there being nothing to indicate that the testimony could not be taken under
the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 866.

This was a motion to take testimony de bene esse in a cause
pending in this court, on appeal. The motion was founded
upon the affidavit of appellant that the bill below was taken
pro confevso as to the Union Trust Company; that the other
defendant demurred and the demurrer was sustained, and the
cause was here on appeal from the judgment dismissing the
bill on the demurrer; that it could not be reached for hearing
"until the lapse of at least two or three years from the present date;" that several witnesses, named in the affidavit, by
whom the appellant expected to make the case stated in his
bill, a copy of which was on file in this court, were aged and
infirm, and resided more than five hundred miles from the
place of trial of the cause; and that several of them were single witnesses to material facts in the cause, which facts could
only be proved by them. After stating in detail the names of
the witnesses, and the facts to be proved by each, the deponent
further stated that he had applied to the Circuit Judge in the
district from which the appeal was taken, under the provisions
of Equity Rule 70 for a commission to issue in the cause, to

