ST. LOUIS, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. McGEE.

469

Opinion of the Court.

granting or dissolving an injunction, is allowed by a justice or
judge who took part in the decision of the cause, he may, in
his discretion, at the time of such allowance, make an order
suspending or modifying an injunction during the pendency of
the appeal, upon such terms as to bond or otherwise, as he
may consider proper for the security of the rights of the opposite party."
Here the judge who heard the case allowed the appeal, and
instead of suspending or modifying the injunction, he took occasion to give special notice that it was to continue in force,
and if the facts are correctly stated in his opinion, it was quite
proper he should do so.
The motion isdenied.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. McGEE.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Argued November 11, 18M.-Decided November 23, 1885.
In order that an act of Congress should work a reversion to the United States
for condition broken of lands granted by them to a State to aid in internal
improvements, the legislation must directly, positively, and with freedom
from all doubt or ambiguity manifest the intention of Congress to reassert
title and resume possession.
No such intention is manifested in the act of July 28, 1866, 14 Stat. 838, so
far as it affects the lands granted to the States of Arkansas and Missouri
by the act of February 9, 1853, 10 Stat. 155, except as to mineral lands.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
_3fr. A. B. Browne [iMr. A. 7'. B'ritton and -Mr. Tho'na8 J.
Portiswere with him on the brief] for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment brought by the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company against Hugh
McGee, to recover the possession of the N. J of N. E. - sec. 17,
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WArTE

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

-

T. 26, R. 11, in Stoddard County, Missouri. The Supreme Court
of Missouri rendered judgment in favor of McGee. To reverse
that judgment this writ of error was brought. The facts are
these:
On the 9th of February, 1853, Congress passed an act granting certain lands to the States of Arkansas and Missouri to aid
in building a railroad from a point on the Mississippi opposite,
the mouth of the Ohio, by way of Little Rock, to the Texas
boundary line near Fulton. 10 Stat. 155. Sections 4 and 5 of
that act are as follows:
"SEc. 4. That the said lands hereby granted to the said
States shall be subject to the disposal of the Legislatures
thereof, for the purposes aforesaid and no other; and the said
railroad and branches shall be and remain a public highway
for the use of the government of the United States, free from
toll or other charge upon the transportation of any property
or troops of the United States.
"SEc. 5. That the lands hereby granted to said States shall
be disposed of by said States only in the manner following;
that is to say, that a quantity of land not exceeding one hundred and twenty sections, and included within a continuous
length of twenty miles of said road, may be sold; and when
the Governors of said State or States shall certify to the Secretary of the Interior that twenty continuous miles of said road
i completed, then another like quantity of land hereby granted
may be sold; and so from time to time until said road is completed; and if said road is not completed within ten years, no
further sales shall be made, and the land unsold shall revert to
the United States."
The.land in dispute is within the limits of this grant.
The Cairo and Fulton Railroad of Missouri was incorporated
as a railroad company under the laws of Missouri, January 12,
1854, and on the 20th of February, 1855, the legislature of
Missouri passed an act vesting in that company full and complete title to the lands granted to the State by the act of 1853,
so far as the same were applicable to the building of the road
from the northern boundary of Arkansas to the Mississippi,
opposite the mouth of the Ohio. This grant by Missouri was

ST. LOUIS, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. McGEE.
Opinion of the Court.

made "for the uses and purposes, and subject to the condition,
reversion and provision set forth and contained in said act of
Congress and of this act." Section 5 is as follows:
"For the purpose of raising funds from time to time, for the
construction of the said railroad, the said company may sell
the said lands, in the manner provided for by the said act of
Congress, and may issue their bonds in such sums as they may
deem proper, at rates of interest not exceeding seven per cent.
per annum, payable semi-annually, and the principal of said
bonds payable at such time and place as they may designate;
and may secure the payment of said bonds by mortgage of said
lands, or any part thereof, to be executed by said company,
and may make the said bonds convertible into land or stock of
the company within such periods as they may prescribe: Provided, that the faith of the State is in no manner pledged for
the redemption of said bonds, or any part thereof: And provded further, that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to authorize said company to sell, dispose of, or apply
the said lands, or the proceeds thereof, in any other manner,
or to any other purpose, than as required and limited by the
said act of Congress." Laws of Missouri, 1855, 314.
On the 3d of January, 1859, the company sold and conveyed
the land sued for to McGee, who immediately went into possession, and has ever since occupied and improved it as his own,
and paid the taxes and assessments thereon. This deed was
duly recorded January 10, 1859. The land is more than forty
miles from the starting point of the road on the Mississippi,
and it does not appear that when it was sold a sufficient number
of miles of the road had been built to authorize its sale.
On the 19th of February, 1866, the legislature of Missouri
directed the governor of the State to sell at auction the Cairo
and Fulton Railroad of Missouri, so far as the same was "constructed or projected, together with their appurtenances, rolling-stock, and property of every description, and all rights and
franchises thereto belonging," "in pursuance of the provisions
of the several acts creating a lien on said railroads, their appurtenances, rights, and franchises, in favor of the State." Laws
of Missouri 1865-1866, 107.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 28th of July, 1866, Congress, 14 Stat. 338, ch. 300,
enacted that the original act of February 9, 1853, granting
lands to the States of Arkansas and Missouri, "with all the
provisions therein made, be, and the same is hereby, revived
and extended for the term of ten years from the passage of
this act; and all the lands therein granted, which reverted to
the United States under the provisions of said act, be, and the
same are hereby, restored to the same custody, control, and
condition, and made subject to the uses and trusts in all
respects as they were before and at the time such reversion took
effect: Provided, that all mineral lands within the limits of
this grant and the grant made in section two of this act, are
hereby reserved to the United States: And provided further,
that all property and troops of the United States shall at all
times be transported over said railroad and branches, at the
cost, charge, and expense of the company or corporation owning or operating said road and branches respectively, when so
required by the government of the United States."
By ยง 2 of the same act an additional grant of lands was
made, "subject to the same uses and trusts, and under the
same custody, control, and conditions, and to be held and disposed of in the same manner as if included in the original
grant." It was then provided "that the lands embraced in this
grant and the grant revived by section one of this act shall be
disposed of only as follows: Whenever proof shall be furnished,
satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior, that any section of
ten consecutive miles of said road . . . is completed in a
good, substantial, and workmanlike manner as a first-class railroad, the Secretary of the Interior shall issue patents for all the
lands granted as aforesaid, not exceeding ten sections per mile,
situate opposite to and within the limits of twenty miles of the
section of said road and branches thus completed," and so on,
as each section of ten miles was completed, until the end. It
was then provided that, if the road was not constructed within
ten years from the time the act went into effect, "the lands
granted, or the grant of which is revived or extended by this
act, and which at the time shall be unpatented to or for the
benefit of the road or company, . . . shall revert to the

ST. LOUIS, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. McGEE.
Opinion of the Court.

United States." By ยง 3 all lands "mentioned -in this act, and
hereby granted, are hereby reserved from entry, pre-emption, or
appropriation to any other purpose than herein contemplated,
for the said term of ten years from the passage of this act:
Provided,that all lands heretofore given to the State of Missouri for the construction of the Cairo and Fulton railroad, or for
the use of said road lying in the State of Missouri, and all lands
proposed to be granted by this act for the use or in aid of the
road herein named, and lying in said State of Missouri, shall be
granted and patented to the said State whenever the road shall
be completed through said State, which lands may be held by
said State and used toward paying the State the amount of
bonds heretofore issued by it to aid said company, and all
interest accrued or to accrue thereon."
After the passage of this act of Congress, the railroad
property was sold and conveyed by the State to certain persons,
under whom the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company claims title. The conveyance upon the sale was
of "the said Cairo and Fulton Railroad of Missouri, with all
the franchise, privileges, rights, title and interest appertaining
to said road, and all roads, road-bed, rolling stock, machine
shops, and all other property, both real and personal, of every
description, belonging or in any wise appertaining thereto."
The railroad was completed by the purchasers, or those
claiming under them, and, on the 23d of January, 1877, the
lands in dispute were patented, with others of the same class,
to the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Company.
The first question presented by the assignment of errors is
whether the act of July 28, 1866, was such a legislative declaration by Congress of a forfeiture of the grant of 1853 as would
divest the title of the State to unearned lands, and defeat conveyances thereof by the railroad company before that time.
It has often been decided that lands granted by Congress to
aid in the construction of railroads do not revert after condition broken until a forfeiture has been asserted by the United
States, either through judicial proceedings instituted under
authority of law for that purpose, or through some legislative
action legally equivalent to a judgment of office found at com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

mon law. United States v. Repentingny, 5 Wall. 211, 267, 268;
Se/ulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, 63; Farnsworthv. .innesota & Pacii Railroad Co., 92 U. S. 49, 66; .7l'Jicken v.
United States, 97 U. S. 217, 218; 'an Wyek v. .Knevals, 106
U. S. 360. Legislation to be sufficient must manifest an intention by Congress to reassert title and to resume possession.
As it is to take the place of a suit by the United States to enforce a forfeiture, and a judgment therein establishing the
right, it should be direct, positive, and free from all doubt or
ambiguity.
In the present case no such intention appears. On the contrary, the evident purpose of Congress was to waive a forfeiture and extend the time for earning the lands under the original act. The language is that the provisions of the act of
1853 be "revived and extended for the term of ten years from
the passage of this act." If this had been all, no one could
doubt that it was the intention of Congress to place all parties
interested in the grant just where they would be if the act of
1853 had fixed July 28, 1876, as the time for the completion
of the railroad. What follows does not, in our opinion, manifest any different intention. The words are: "and all the
lands therein granted, which reverted to the United States
under the provision of said act, be, and they are hereby, restored to the same custody, control and condition, and made
subject to the uses and trusts in all respects as they were before and at the time such reversion took effect." When this
act was passed the property of the original company had not
been sold by the State under its act of February, 1866. There
had been no proceedings by the United States to enforce a
forfeiture, and the possession of the lands under the original
grant had not been changed. Everything, so far as the United
States were concerned, remained after the original limit of time
for building the road had been passed, as it was before. Neither had the State done anything. to take back its transfer of
title to the company. Its legislation looked only to a sale and
to the passing of the franchises and property of the company
into the hands of those who would go forward and complete
the road. This implied a preservation of the title of the com-

ST. LOUIS, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. McGEE.
Opinion of the Court.

pany to the lands rather than its destruction. The language
of the new act is to be construed with reference to these facts,
and, inasmuch as there had not been in law any reversion of
the lands to the United States when the act was passed, the
words "reverted," "reversion," and "restored," are to be understood as implying nothing more than that no advantage
was to be taken by the United States of the fact that the condition subsequent in the grant had been broken by the failure
of the company to complete the road within the time originally
limited. Certainly there is nothing in the language employed
to show an intention of Congress by that act to declare a forfeiture. Taken as a whole, this provision of the act of 1866
amounts to nothing more than an amendment of the act of
1853, striking out the original time of limitation and inserting
in lieu, July 28, 1876.
Other provisions of the .act except from the grant of 1853, as
well as that of 1866, all mineral lands within their respective
limits, and also make patents necessary for the transfer of title
from the United States. This shows an intention to take advantage of the breach of the conditions of the original grant,
so far as was necessary to reassert title to, and reclaim possession of, any mineral lands that may have been included
in that grant, and to change the mode of passing title, but it
does not go further. To some extent, also, the obligations of
the company for the transportation of the property and troops
of the United States are changed. In this way the act of 1853
is ameifded, and the advantages, if any, gained by the United
States may be looked upon as in the nature of concessions exacted in consideration of the additional grant which was made,
and the extension of time which was given for the completion
of the road. On the whole, we conclude that there has never
been a forfeiture of the grant of 1853, so far as the lands now
in dispute are concerned, and that the title of McGee stands
precisely as it would if the original company had completed its
road within the time fixed in the act of 1853. The purchasers
at the sale made by the State in 1866 took subject to his rights,
and the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Company got
from these purchasers no better title than they had themselves.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.
Under these circumstances, the patent which issued in 187r
inured to the benefit of McGee just as it would if it had issued
to the Cairo and Fulton Railroad before the transfer under
which the new company claims.
The case of Tilson v. Boyce, 92 U. S. 320, is not in conflict
with this. There the question was whether a purchaser from
the company got title free of a lien of the State, as security
for a loan of State bonds to the company. The controversy
was about the construction of the words of description in the
statute which created the State's lien; one side claiming that
the land grant was not included, and the other that it was. If
it was included, the title of the purchaser from the company
would be bad; if not, it would be good. We held that the
grant was included, and gave judgment accordingly. Upon
the facts as presented by this record, no such question arises.
No title is set up under any lien in favor of the State superior
to that of McGee. There is no dispute about the right of the
State to sell under its act of 1866. If, at the time of such sale,
the title of the company under the act of 1853 had been
divested by forfeiture, and the company held only under the
new grant of 1866, the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern
Company is entitled to judgment. If, however, the original
grant had not been forfeited, and the Cairo and Fulton Company held under that grant when the sale was made, the new
company took title subject to the prior right of McGee, and
must fail in this action. As we decide that the company held
under the original title, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri was right; and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

