OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

TRAER & Another v. CLEWS.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argaed November 9, 10, 1885.-Decided November 23, 1885.

A suit in which the purchaser from a trustee in bankruptcy of property of the
bankrupt estate asserts title against a defendant claiming an adverse interest therein, though brought more than two years after the cause of action
accrues to the trustee, is not barred by the limitation of two years prescribed by Rev. Stat. § 5057, if the defendant acquired title by a fraud
practised by him on the trustee, and the fraud was concealed by the
defendant from the trustee and the purchaser, until within two years
before the suit was brought.
When an incorporated company has been dissolved, and its affairs are in the
course of liquidation, a sale and transfer by a stockholder of all his claims
and demands on account of his stock is not void, because the vendee may
be compelled to bring suit to enforce his right to such claims and demands.
There is nothing in the policy or terms of the bankrupt act which forbids the
bankrupt from purchasing from the trustee property of the bankrupt
estate.
A trustee in bankruptcy may sell the unencumbered property of the estate on
credit, when he thinks it most for the interest of the creditors.

Henry Clews, the defendant in error, on January 17, 1878,
brought this suit in the Circuit Court of Linn County, Iowa,
against John W. Traer and others, to recover the value of
fifty shares, of one thousand dollars each, of capital stock in
the Cedar Rapids Northwestern Construction Company, and
the dividends which had been declared thereon. The stock had
been originally subscribed and owned by Clews. The Construction Company was organized in 1870. The dividends sued
for were declared, ten thousand dollars in December, 1873, and
five hundred dollars in January, 1874, and were in the treasury of the company ready to be paid out to the holder of the
stock. On November 28, 1874, Clews was adjudicated a bankrupt, and his stock in the Construction Company, with the
dividends which had been declared thereon, passed to J. Nelson Tappan, trustee of his bankrupt estate. In February, 1875,
the Construction Company went into voluntary dissolution and
liquidation, and John W. Traer, John F. Ely, and William

TRAER v. CLEWS.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Green were appointed trustees to settle up its affairs and
divide its assets among its stockholders, according to their interest therein. Traer, knowing that the dividends above mentioned had been declared, and the same being unknown to
Clews and Tappan, his trustee in bankruptcy, on March 4,
1876, for the consideration of twelve hundred dollars, through
the intervention of one Armstrong, who did not disclose his
agency, purchased of Tappan, the trustee, the fifty shares of
stock above mentioned. Traer alleged, and it appeared, that
the purchase was made by him for his wife, Mrs. Alla D. Traer.
Afterwards, on December 6, 1877, Tappan, the trustee in
bankruptcy, assuming, as it may be supposed, that the sale of
the stock made at the instance of Armstrong was void for
fraud, sold all his claims and demands on account of the stock
to Clews, who, on January 17, 1878, brought this suit. John
W. Traer and others, who had been officers and trustees of the
Construction Company, were made defendants to the original
petition. The defendants demurred to the petition on the
ground that it did not state facts sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to the relief demanded.. The court overruled the demurrer.
Afterwards, the plaintiff having discovered that, on March 4,
1876, the stock in the Construction Company had been assigned
to Alla D. Traer, on October 28, 1879, amended his petition
by making her a party defendant to his suit. Upon final
hearing in the Circuit Court for Linn County, the suit was
dismissed as to all the defendants except John W. Traer and
Alla D. Traer, and judgment was rendered against them for
fifteen thousand dollars. Traer and his wife appealed from
this judgment to the Supreme Court of Iowa, which affirmed
the judgment of the Circuit Court. By the present writ of
error Traer and wife ask a review of the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Iowa.
.Xr. N. .. Hubbard and A!r. C ares A. Clark for plaintiffs
in error.-I. The jurisdiction of this court arises under Rev.
Stat. § 709, and is invoked upon two grounds. (1) To review
the action of the court below in deciding against defendants'
plea of the two years statute of limitations contained in the
VOL. cxv-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

bankrupt act, Rev. Stat. § 5057. This section applies to suits
by and against trustees, as well as assignees in bankruptcy.
Rev. Stat. § 5103. No question can arise as to the jurisdiction
under this head. (2) The plaintiffs in error specially set up
and claimed title to the stock and dividends under a written assignment from Tappan, trustee in bankruptcy, who held his
commission, and exercised his authority under the United
'States, and the decision below was "against the title thus
specially pleaded and claimed." This action of the State court
is subject to review in this court under the statute cited, which
confers jurisdiction to review the action of the State courts,
"Where any title, right . . . is claimed under any commission held, or authority exercised under the United States, and
the decision is against the title, right, . . . specially set
up or claimed by either party under such . . . commission
or authority." The decisions fully sustain the jurisdiction of
this court upon the last-mentioned ground. NZew Orleans, &ec.,
Railroad Co. v. Delamore, 114 U: S. 501 ; _Fators' & Traders'
I=. Co. v. XurjpAy, 111 U. S. 738; Ray v. .Norseworthy, 23
Wall. 128; Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610; Green v. Van Bu8kirk, 5 Wall. 307; Sharpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S.686.
II. As to the statute of limitations. (1) The stock and accrued dividends were assigned to Mrs. Traer March 4, 1876.
The dividends were paid to her March 20, 1876. The suit, as
to her, was begun October 28, 1879. In the absence of fraud
it was barred in two years from the time when the cause of
action accrued as to Tappan by the statute; and consequently
as to Clews who stood in his shoes. Gifford v. Hle ms, 98 U.
S.248; Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342. Thus the bar was
complete as to Mrs. Traer when the suit against her was commenced. To avoid this Clews alleged against her fraudulent
concealment, by amendments to his petition. The rules laid
down by this court in Vood v. Carpenter,101 U. S.135, as to
the fraud and concealment which will take a case out of the
statute of limitations hold the party attempting it to stringent
rules of pleading and evidence. Hle must declare what his discovery is, how it was made, why it was not made sooner, and
that he used due diligence to detect. As to all these the circum-

TRAER v. CLEWS.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

stances must be fully stated and proved, and the delay which
has occurred must be shown to be consistent with the requisite
diligence. Now the allegations as to the discovery are that
"Mrs. Traer's connection with the transaction was studiously
concealed from plaintiff and his assignor," and that plaintiff
had no knowledge of it previous to his discovery, September
24, 1879. The only proof to sustain this is the stipulation that
the plaintiff's attorneys, who "conducted all the investigations
touching such stock and dividends as such attorneys," had no
such knowledge or information. Here there is neither pleading
nor proof to avoid the bar, under the rulings above cited. (2)
As to Traer, the cause of action was first set up in the amendment filed February 9, 1880. It accrued in March, 1876,
when the dividends were paid over. The statute continued to
run, after the commencement of the action and until the
amendment was filed. Holmes v. Trout, 7 Pet. 171, 213; !Iiinoi* Central Railroad Co. v. Cobb, 64 Ill. 128, 140; Commi8sioner8 of Delaware County v. Andrew8, 18 Ohio St. 49;
Marble v. Hinds, 67 Maine, 203; Fooddridge v. Hathaway,
45 Texas, 380; Laniford v. Scott, 51 Ala. 557; Hfawthorne v.
State, 57 Ind. 286; Selma Railroad Go. v. Lacey, 49 Geo. 106.
Clews did not attempt to remove the bar as to Traer, by
charging discovery of the fraud within two years. He only attempted it as to Mi's. Traer. Hence as to Traer the charge is
complete so far as the dividends are concerned. An assignment of the stock would not carry accrued dividends unless
specially included. Jermain v. Lake Shore & .A/ich. Sou. Railroad Co., 91 N. Y. 483; Bright v. Lord, 51 Ind. 272.
III. The alleged assignment to Clews was not a conveyance
of the stock, nor of the dividends, but only a transfer of a right
of action to set aside a conveyance of the legal title to them
without the right of possession which alone gives a party a
standing place, even in a court of equity. Brace v. Reid, 3
Greene (Iowa), 422; French v. Slwtwell, 5 Johns. Ch. 555, 566;
S. C., 20 Johns. 668; Shufelt v. Shufelt, 9 Paige, 144, 146;
'De Hoyton, v. .ioney, 2 L. R. Ch. 164; Proseerv. Edmonds,
1 ,Young. & Col. Exch. Eq. 481; Dickinmon v. Beaver, 44
Mich. 631; Crocker v. Bellangee, 6 Wise. 645; Graha, v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 148. It does not admit of question
that Mrs. Traer took title to the stock and dividends by the
assignment. Johnston v. Laflin, 103 U. S. 800; .National
Bank v. Watsontown Bank, 105 U. S. 217.
IV. The assignment to Mrs. Traer in no event was void.
At most it was voidable. For decisions in parallel cases see
Tippecanoe County v. Reynolds, 44 Ind. 509, 514, 516; Carpenter v. &Danfort,52 Barb. 581; W'ardell v. Railroad Co.,
103 U. S. 651; Thomas v. Brownville Railroad Co., 109 U. S.
522; Pneumatic Gas Co. v. Berry, 113 U. S. 322, 327; and
especially Twin Lick Co. v. Xarbury, 91 U. S. 587. Mrs.
Traer is not a trustee. If she were so in any sense, she did
not unite the character of purchaser and seller at her own sale,
but purchased of Tappan, who was sui juris; and if there
was fraud, that rendered her solemn written muniment of title
subject to impeachment therefor, but not a nullity. Of course
an action at law for damages for the alleged fraud might be
maintained by the defrauded party if he elected not to avoid
the contract. But there can be no pretence that this is such
an action. This is in fact a suit to rescind and avoid the assignment, of the legal title to Mrs. Traer. Before any other
relief than an award of damages could be given, such rescission
must take place. As is said in Twin Lick Co. v. 31arbury,the
doctrine is well settled that the option to avoid such a contract
must be exercised within a reasonable time. Grymes v. Sanders, 93 U. S. 55, says, on page 62, it must be exercised at once.
V. There could be no rescission without tender. The party
seeking to avoid a contract for fraud must avoid in toto, if at
all. If he treats the property as his own he will be held to
have waived the objection, and will be bound as if the fraud or
mistake had not occurred. 3.Mason v. Bonet, 1 Denio, 74;
Grymes v. Sanders, cited above. See also Coolidge v. Brigham,
1 Met. 547; Perley v. Balch, 23 Pick. 283 ; Thayer v. Turner,
8 Met. 550; Bowen v. Schuler, 41 Ill. 192; Buchenau v. Horney, 12 Ill. 336; Cooley v. Harper,4 Ind. 454; .Noore v. Bare,
11 Iowa, 198; Baker v. Robbins. 2 Denio, 136; Bisbee v.
Ham, 47 Maine, 543; Potter v. .fonmouth Ins. Co., 63 MaiI~e
440.

TRAER v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

VI. Clews has no title. (1) As has been pointed out, Clews
does not show that he had received his discharge in bankruptcy
when he procured from Tappan, trustee in bankruptcy of his
estate, the assignment on which he sues, paying therefor one
dollar "and a, certain bond." It was surely not competent for
Clews while a bankrupt to purchase anything belonging to his
own estate from his own trustee, and pay for it with his own
bond, due in the future, on which nothing had been paid
when Tappan's deposition was taken, and on which it is
inconceivable that anything ever will be paid for the benefit of Clew's creditors. (2) If Tappan held avalid claim against
the Traers he was without authority of law to sell it to Clews
for a bond or obligation to pay. His powers in this respect
were those of an assignee in bankruptcy, Rev. Stat. § 5103,
who can only sell for cash. Under the law, Clews has taken
nothing by his alleged purchase. The payment of one dollar
gives him no standing in equity. His situation seems to be
aptly described by the language of Lord Abinger in Pros8erv.
'dinonds, cited above, quoted by this court with approval in
Graiam v. Railroad Co., cited above: "All our cases of maintenance and champerty are founded on the principle that no
encouragement should be given to litigation by the introduction of parties to enforce those rights which others are not disposed to enforce. There are many cases where the acts
charged may not amount properly to maintenance or champerty,
yet of which upon general principles, and by analogy to such
acts, a court of equity will discourage the practice."

fr. Frank G. Clark and Mr. Llewellyn Deanefor defendant
in error.
MR. JusTIOE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. After

stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
The defendant in error questions" the jurisdiction of this
court. As the record shows that the plaintiffs in error dispute
the validity of a transfer to the defendant in error of the property in controversy, made to him by a trustee in bankruptcy,
appointed under and deriving his authority from the bankrupt

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
act, and as the question is made whether the suit is barred by
the limitation prescribed by the same act, we are of opinion
that the jurisdiction of the court to decide these questions is
clear. Factors' & Traders' -Insurance Co. v. XErwhy, 111
U. S. 738 ; New Orleans,Spanish -Fort & Lake Railroad Co.
v. Delamore, 114 U. S. 501.
The record does not leave it in doubt that the purchase by
Traer from Tappan of the rights incident to the stock in the
Construction Company belonging to the bankrupt estate of
Clews was brought about by the fraudulent practices of Traer.
As stated by the Supreme Court of Iowa, he was a stockholder, officer, and trustee of the Construction Company, and
had been, from the first, actively engaged in the management
of its affairs. As trustee he was solely intrusted with the custody of the assets, books, and papers of the corporation, and
had full and complete knowledge of all matters pertaining to
the assets and business of the company. He knew that the
plaintiff or his bI2nkrupt estate was entitled to dividends
amounting to at least $10,500, received by Traer upon entering upon the discharge of his duties as trustee. The assets of
the company, much of them being in money, he held as a trustee for the stockholders, being so constituted by the act of dissolution of the corporation. He misrepresented the value of
these assets to both Tappan and Clews, and induced them to
believe that the sum to which they were entitled did not
greatly exceed $1200 in value, the amount of the consideration of the assignment of the stock by Tappan. Re employed
attorneys and agents to negotiate for the purchase of the stock,
who concealed from Tappan that the purchase was made for
Traer or his wife. These agents knew that they were making
the purchase for Traer or his wife, and neither of them at any
time was a good faith purchaser. In all of the transactions
connected with the purchase of the stock Traer acted as the
agent of his wife, who knew that her husband was a trustee
holding the assets for the stockholders of the Construction
Company, and knew their value, and was guided in her purchase by his advice and direction. She knew that Tappan was
ignorant of the value of the assets, and she had knowledge of

TRAER v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

the devices used by her husband to secure the purchase of the
stock and dividends.
By means of these fraudulent devices she purchased from
Tappan, for the price of $1200, property which the State Circuit Court found to be of the value of $15,000. The charge of
fraud made in the petition was, therefore, fully sustained.
Among other defences pleaded by Alla D. Traer was the
following: "That plaintiff's pretended right of action herein
accrued in favor of plaintiff's assignor, J. Nelson Tappan, as
trustee in bankruptcy of plaintiff's estate, more than two years
before the commencement of this suit against this defendant,
and more than two years before she was made a party defendant herein, and that this action is fully barred as to her by the
provisions of the act of Congress in that behalf, and was so
barred before she was made a party defendant herein."
This plea sets up the bar prescribed by the second section of
the bankrupt act, now forming § 5057 of the Revised Statutes,
which declares: "No suit, either at law or in equity, shall be
maintainable in any court between an assignee in bankruptcy
and a person claiming an adverse interest touching any property or rights of property transferable to or vested in such
assignee, unless brought within two years from the time when
the cause of action accrued for or against such assignee."
The suit was brought against John D. Traer within two
years after the fraudulent purchase and transfer of the stock
and dividends, but Mrs. Traer was not made a party to the
suit until after the lapse of three years and a half from the
time of the purchase and transfer. The question is presented
by one of the assignments of error whether, upon the circumstances of this case, the suit was barred as to 'Mrs. Traer.
The amended petition filed in the case on October 28, 1879,
the day after Mrs. Traer had been made a defendant, averred
that John W. Traer, while holding the office of trustee of the
Construction Company, falsely represented to Tappan that
there were no dividends due the estate of Clews from the
stock held by him in the Construction Company, and falsely
and fraudulently concealed from him the true condition of the
company with the intent of undervaluing the stock and divi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

dends declared thereon; that Traer and his wife employed one
Armstrong to purchase for Mrs. Traer the said stock and dividends; that Armstrong took from Tappan an assignment of
the certificate of stock to Mrs. Traer; that he forwarded the
certificate to one Howard, whom Traer and his wife had previously employed, and Howard, following the instructions of
Traer and his wife, carried the certificate to the headquarters
of the Construction Company at Cedar Rapids, and demanded
of Traer, as trustee, the dividends and interest thereon; whereupon Traer paid over to Howard, his own and his wife's attorney, the sum of $11,913.75 on account of said dividends and
interest, and Howard, while pretending to act for Armstrong,
"carefully concealed from those who might inform the said
plaintiff's trustee in bankruptcy, and from the papers and receipts, that he was acting as the attorney for John W. Traer
and Alla D. Traer, his wife," and that after receiving said sum
of money and receipting the vouchers prepared by Traer, as
trustee, he paid back the money to Traer and his wife, less the
amount of his own share as co-conspirator and attorney. Afterwards, it was alleged, Traer transferred the stock to his
wife upon the books of the company.
These averments show not only a fraudulent concealment of
the value of the stock and dividends from Tappan by Traer,
acting as agent for his wife, but a carefully devised plan by
which the payment of the dividends to Mrs. Traer was concealed from Tappan, and no trace of such payment left upon
the books and vouchers of the Construction Company. Subsequently, and before the trial of the case, the following amendment was made to the petition:
"That as to the matters and things herein set forth as a
cause of action against the said Alla D. Traer, the said fraudulent transactions with which she was connected and her part
therein were studiously concealed from the plaintiff and his assignor, and he had no means of discovering the same, nor had
his assignor any means of discovering the same until the same
were disclosed upon the examination of John W. Traer, as witness in this action, on the 24th day of September, 1879 ; that
the plaintiff and his assignor did not know of the said fraud

TRAER v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

and the fraudulent acts of the defendant, Alla D. Traer, until
the same were made known on the said examination." No
issue was tbiken on this amendment.
The State court having entered a general finding and judgment against the defendants, John W. Traer and Alla D. Traer,
his wife, the facts set out in the pleadings of the plaintiff, so
far as they are necessary to support the judgment, must be
taken as established by the evidence. The question is therefore, do the facts alleged constitute a good reply to the plea of
the two years' limitation filed by Mrs. Traer? We think they
do. The fraud by which Mrs. Traer succeeded in purchasing from Tappan for $1200 property to which he had the title
worth $15,000, must necessarily have been a fraud carried on
by concealment from Tappan of the true value of the property
purchased. Such is the averment of the plaintiff's pleadings.
But not only was fraudulent concealment in accomplishing
the fraudulent purpose averred, but also a studious concealment from the plaintiff Clews, and Tappan, the trustee, of the
connection of Mrs. Traer with the fraud, and their want of
means to discover the fraud, until it was revealed by the examination of John W. Traer on September 24, 1879. Thd case is
substantially the same, so far as the question now in hand is concerned, as that of Bailqy v. Glove', 21 Wall. 342. The averment of fraudulent concealment in that case was, as shown by
the report, as follows "The bill alleged that the" [defendants]
"kept secret their said fraudulent acts, and endeavored to conceal'them from the knowledge, both of the assignee and of the
said Winston & Co., [creditors of the bankrupt] whereby both
were prevented from obtaining any sufficient knowledge or information thereof until within the last two years, and that,
even up to the present time, they have not been able to obtain
full and particular information as to the fraudulent disposition
made by the bankrupt of a large part of his property."
The court in that case, upon demurrer, held in effect that
these averments were sufficient to take the case from the operation of the same limitation which is set up in the present case.
In delivering the judgment of the court, Mr. Justice Miller
said: "We hold that, where there has been no negligence or

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

laches on the part of a plaintiff in coming to a knowledge of
the fraud which is the foundation of the suit, and when the
fraud has been concealed, or is of such a character as to conceal
itself, the statute does not begin to run until the fraud is discovered or becomes known to the party suing, or those in privity with him."
So in the case of Rosenthal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 185, the
plaintiff averred that "both the said Carney and the defendant
kept concealed from him, the said plaintiff, the fact of the said
payment and transfer of the aggregate sum of $30,000,
and the fact of the sale, transfer and conveyance of the said
goods,

.

.

.

and that he, the said plaintiff, did not obtain

knowledge and information of said matter until the 29th day
of November, 1879, and then, for the first time, the said
matters were disclosed to him, and brought to his knowledge."
p. 187. These averments were held sufficient on exception
to the petition to take the case out of the bar prescribed by
§ 5057 of the Revised Statutes. The case of Bailey v. Glover,
has never been overruled, doubted, or modified by this court.
On the contrary, in Rosenthal v. Walker, it was reaffirmed, and
was dittinguished from the case of Wood v. Carpenter, 101
IT. S. 135, relied on by the appellants. The authorities cited
are in point and fully support our conclusion that, upon the
pleadings and evidence the suit of the plaintiff was not barred
by the limitation prescribed by § 5057 of the Revised Statutes.
The next contention of the appellants is that the transfer
executed by Tappan to Clews was not a sale to him of a right
of property in the stock of the Construction Company, and of
the dividends, but merely the transfer of a right to sue Traer
and his wife for a fraud, and was, therefore, void. The assignment was as follows:
"In consideration of the sum of $1.00 to me paid by Henry
Clews, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and for
other good and valuable considerations, I hereby sell, assign,
transfer, and set over unto the said Henry Clews any and all
claims and demands of every name, nature, and description
that I may now have or be entitled to on account of the fifty
shares of the capital stock in the Cedar Rapids & North-

TRAER v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

western Construction Company, which was subscribed for said
Henry Clews."
This paper will not, in our opinion, bear the construction
put upon it by the appellants. Treating the transfer to Mrs.
Traer as void, its evident purpose is to assign to Clews whatever property and rights were incident to the ownership of the
stock.
When this paper was executed, the corporation known as
the Construction Company had been dissolved and its affairs
were in the course of liquidation. The ownership of the stock
simply entitled the holder to a proportionate interest in the
unpaid dividends which had been declared before the dissolution of the company, and to a pro i'ata share of the proceeds
of the company's assets, and in this consisted its sole value.
The language of the assignment, by which Tappan undertook
to transfer to Clews all claims and demands which Tappan
then had or might be entitled to on account of the fifty shares
of stock in the company which had been subscribed by Henry
Clews, was aptly chosen to convey the dividends which had
been declared, and an interest in the property of the company
in proportion to the fifty shares of stock. It did no transfer
a mere right to sue Traer and his wife. That right was
simply an incident to the transfer of substantial and tangible
property.
The rule is that an assignment of a mere right to file a bill
in equity for fraud committed upon the assignor will be void
as contrary to public policy and savoring of maintenance.
But when property is conveyed, the fact that the grantee may
be compelled to bring a suit to enforce his right to the
property, does not render the conveyance void. This distinction is taken in the case of Dickinson v. -Burrell,L. R. 1 Eq.
337. The facts in that case were that a conveyance of an interest in an estate had been fraudulently procured from Dickinson, by his own solicitor, to a third party for the solicitor's
benefit, and for a very inadequate consideration. Dickinson,
ascertaining the fraud, by a conveyance which recited the facts,
and that he disputed the validity of the first conveyance,
transferred all his share in the estate to trustees for the benefit

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of himself and children. The trustees filed a bill to set aside
the fraudulent conveyance, upon repayment of the consideration money and interest, and to establish the trust. The
Master of the Rolls, Lord Romilly, in sustaining the bill, said:
"The distinction is this: if James Dickinson had sold or conveyed the right to sue to set aside the indenture of December,
1860, without conveying the property, or his interest in the
property, which is the subject of that indenture, that would
not have enabled the grantee, A. B., to maintain this bill; but
if A. B. had bought the whole of the interest of James Dickinson in the property, then it would. The right of suit is a
right incidental to the property conveyed." The Master of
the Rolls then refers to the cases of Cokemll v. Taylor, 15 Beav.
103, and Anderson v. Radclif, El. Bl. & El. 806, where he says
the same distinction is taken.
The rule was expounded by Mr. Justice Story in Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193, as follows: "In general it may be
affirmed that mere personal torts, which die with the party,
and do not survive to his personal representative, are not
capable of passing by assignment; and that vested rights, ad
rem and in re, possibilities coupled with an interest and claims
growing out of and adhering to the property, may pass by
assignment." p. 213.
In Erwin, v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, Mr. Justice Field,
who delivered the opinion of the court, said: "Claims for
compensation for the possession, use, or appropriation of tangible property constitute personal estate equally with the property out of which they grow, although the validity of such
claims may be denied, and their value may depend upon the
uncertainties of litigation or the doubtful result of an appeal
to the legislature." p. 396. And see .Jfo2lfahon v. Allen, 35
N. Y. 403, decided in the State where the assignment in question was made; TFeire v. TAe City qf Davenport, 11 Iowa,
49; and Gray v. .fcCalliater, 50 Iowa, 498, decided in the
State where the suit was brought. See also a discussion of
the subject in Graham,v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 148.
Applying the rule established by these authorities, we are
of opinion that, so far as the question under consideration is

TRAER v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

concerned, the assignment of Tappan to Clews was the transfer, not merely of a naked right to bring a suit, but of a valuable right of property, and was, therefore, valid and effectual.
It is next insisted by the plaintiffs in error, that Clews acquired no title to the dividends and other property which
Tappan attempted to transfer to him, because (1) he had not
been discharged as a bankrupt at the time of the transfer, and
(2) because Tappan had no authority to sell the stock and its
dividends for a bond or obligation to pay, as the evidence
shows was the case, but only for cash.
Whether Clews had been discharged at the date of the
transfer to him is immaterial. After his adjudication as a
bankrupt, and the surrender of his property to be administered
in bankruptcy, he was just as much at liberty to purchase, if
he had the means, any of the property, so surrendered, as any
other person. The policy of the bankrupt act was, after taking from the bankrupt all his property not exempt by law, to
discharge him from his debts and liabilities, and enable him to
take a fresh start. His subsequent earnings were his own.
A bankrupt might often desire, out of the proceeds of his
exempted property, or out of his means earned since his bankruptcy, to purchase property which he had surrendered to the
assignee. This he might do, and there is nothing in the letter
or policy of the bankrupt act which forbids his doing so until
after his discharge. For, having complied with the law, as it
must be presumed he has, he is, after the lapse of six months,
entitled, as a matter of course, to his discharge. His right to
purchase property surrendered cannot, therefore, depend on
his actual discharge, and, in this respect, he stands upon the
same footing as any other person.
As to the second ground upon which the validity of the
title of Clews is questioned, it is sufficient to say that, by the
bankrupt law, § 5062 Rev. Stat., it is provided: "The assignee shall sell all such unencumbered estate, real and personal, which comes to his hands, on such terms as he thinks
most for the interest of the creditors."
If, therefore, the plaintiffs in error occupied the position of
guardians for the creditors of the bankrupt estate, and had the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Counsel for Parties.

right, in this suit, to question the administration of the trustee,
the section referred to would be a sufficient answer to the
exception taken to the sale by Tappan to Clews of the property which is the subjeot of thi controversy. We think, therefore, that no ground is shown on which the title of Clews can
be successfully assailed.
Other points have been raised and argued by counsel, but
as these do not present any Federal question, it is not our
province or duty to pass upon them. furdock v. City of Aemphi8, 20 Wall. 590. All the Federal questions presented by
the record were, in our judgment, rightly decided by the
Supreme Court of Iowa.
Judgment affirmed.

FERRY & Another v. LIVINGSTO[.
LIVINGSTON v. FERRY & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF

MnCHIGAN.

Argued November 19, 1885.-Decided December 7,1885.

In this case, on the facts found, under Schedule N of section 2502 of Title
XXXIII. of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by section 6 of the act of
March 3,1883, ch. 121, 22 Stat. 489, imposing a duty of 20 per cent. ad
valorem on "garden seeds, except seed of the sugar beet" and under "The
Free List" in section 2503 of the same Title, as enacted by said act of 1883,
embracing "seeds of all kinds, except medicinal seeds not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," certain beet and cabbage seeds were
held to be "garden seeds" and subject to 20 per cent. duty, and certain
mangel-wurzel and turnip seeds were held not to be "garden seeds," and
to be exempt from duty.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Otto Eirchner for Ferry & Another.

Xr. iSolivitor-Generalfor Livingston.

