MAYFIELD v. RIOHARDS.
Statement of Facts.

MAYFIELD v. RICHARDS & Others.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREMLE COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIA..
Submitted April 2, 1885.-Decided Iay 4, 1&15.

The act of June 11, 1864, 13 Stat. 123, "That whenever, during'the existence
of the present rebellion, any action, civil or criminal, shall accrue against
any person who, by reason of resistance to the execution of the laws of the
United States, or the interruption of the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, cannot be served with process, . .
. the time during which
such person shall so be beyond the reach of legal process shall not be
deemed or taken as any part of the time limited by law for the commencement of such action," applies to cases in the courts of the States as well as
to cases in the courts of the United States; and, as thus construed, is
Constitutional.
Stewrart v. Hahn, 11 Wall. 493, affirmed and applied.

The facts shown by the record were as follows: On March
30, 1860, Walter 0. Winn, of the Parish of IRapides, in the State
of Louisiana, made and delivered to the firm of IRotchford,
Brown & Co., of the city of New Orleans, his nine promissory
notes, each for the payment to their order of $5,000, four of
which were to become due and payable on November 10, 1860,
and five on December 10, 1860. Winn died in 1861, leaving
a last will, which was afterwards duly proven, by which he
made his wife Mary E. Winn his universal heir and legatee
and executrix. As such she took possession of the estate. The
nine notes payable to the order of Rotchford, Brown & Co.
were presented to Mrs. Winn, as executrix, for her acknowledgment thereof as a debt against the succession of Winn, and
she indorsed on each of them such acknowledgment, with a
promise to pay the same in due course of administration.
These indorsements all bore date November 1, 1865. Mrs.
Winn continued in the office of executrix until September 30,
1873, when, by the order of the District Court for the Parish of
Rapides, she was "destituted "-that is to say, removed"from said executorship of the estate of Winn," and J. M.
Wells, Jr., appointed dative testamentary executor of said succession.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

On July 5, 1880, Wells, as such executor, filed a provisional
account of his administration in the District Court for the
Parish of Rapides, which had probate jurisdiction. In his account he recognized the nine notes above mentioned payable
to the order of Rotchford, Brown & Co., which, in January,
1866, had been transferred by the payees to the appellant,
John S. Mayfield, as valid claims against the succession, and
proposed to apply the assets in his hands to their payment.
Mrs. Winn,under the name of Mary E. Richards, she having intermarried with A. Keene Richards, filed, with the authorization of her said husband, on January 11, 1881, her
opposition to the allowance and payment of the notes, and
stated her ground of opposition as follows: "The notes are
prescribed and were prescribed at the date they were accepted
by the executrix, the date of acceptance being written on the
back of the notes long before they were accepted by the
executrix, and accepted in error."
One John D. DuBose, a creditor of the succession,.also opposed the recognition and payment of the notes, because "said
nine notes were all prescribed long before they were pretended
to be acknowledged by the executrix, Mrs. Mary E. Winn,and
the acknowledgment was made by her in the City of New Orleans, Louisiana, in January or February, 1866, and not on the
1st day of November, 1865, as it purports."
There was no charge, and no attempt to prove that the antedating of the acknowledgment of the executrix had been
fraudulently procured; and, if the notes were not prescribed
until long after January, 1866, as contended by Mayfield, there
was no motive to antedate the acknowledgment, and nothing
to be gained by so doing.
The contention that these notes were prescribed was based on
Article 3540 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, which declares that
"notes payable to order or bearer . . . are prescribed by
five years reckoning from the day when the engagements were
payable." Mayfield contended that the notes had been admitted as valid debts against the succession of Winn by the
executrix, on November 1, 1865, as appeared by her indorseinent thereon, and, as such indorsement was made before the

MAYFIELD v. RICHARDS.
Statement of Facts.

expiration of five years. after the maturity of the notes, it was
effectual to suspend prescription, and the notes were, therefore, not prescribed. Upon the opposition of Mrs. Winn and
DuBose the question whether the nine notes were prescribed
was tried by the judge of the District Court in which the opposition was filed. He admitted evidence to show, and upon it
decided, that the acknowledgment of hMrs. Winn, as executrix,
indorsed upon the notes, and purporting to be dated November 1, 1865, was not in fact made on that day, but some time
between the first and tenth days of January, 1866. As this
was more than five years after the maturity of the notes, it
was not competent for the executrix to acknowledge them, and
they were apparently barred by the prescription of five years
provided by the law of the State.
But the appellant, Mayfield, contended that the notes were
saved from the prescription of five years, by the act of Congress of June 11, 1864, 13 Stat. 123, entitled "An Act in relation to the limitation of actions in certain cases," which provided that "whenever during the existence of the present
rebellion any action, civil or criminal, shall accrue against any
person who, by reason of resistance to the execution of the
laws of the United States or the interruption of the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings, cannot be served with process,
the time during which such person shall so be beyond
the reach of legal process shall not be deemed or taken as any
part of the time limited by law for the commencement of such
action."
To bring the notes in controversy within the terms of this
statute, Mayfield offered to the District Court evidence tending
to show that Rotchford, Brown & Co., the payees, were
domiciled in the City of New Orleans, and were doing business
there when the city was taken by the Federal forces in 1862,
and that Shepherd Brown, one of the members of the firm, was
in the city in 1864, and that Mayfield, the appellant, was also
a resident of New Orleans.
He also introduced testimony tending to show that the
United States had no jurisdiction oyer the parish of fRapides
during the war, except a military one, and that such military

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

jurisdiction lasted for but a short time; that the Federal troops
came to Alexandria, the county seat of iRapides Parish, about
March 17, 1864, and remained in possession thereof until about
May 15, when they departed; that before leaving they burned
the town of Alexandria, including the court-house, after which
there was a state of disorganization, there was no court, and
there were no officers in the parish until after July 9, 1865;
that Mrs. Winn, the executrix, had gone as a refugee to Texas,
and no service could have been made on her from the time the
court-house was burned until she returned to iRapides Parish,
in December, 1865. This testimony was uncontradicted.
Upon this evidence the District Court decided that, conceding that the acknowledgement of Mrs. Winn as executrix was
not indorsed on the nine notes until some day between the first
and tenth of January, 1866, yet the prescription of the notes
was suspended by the act of Congress above recited for a period
sufficient to save them from the bar of Article 3540 of the
Code of Louisiana, and thereupon rendered judgment that the
claim of Mayfield was a valid and legal debt due from the succession of Winn, and was properly placed in the provisional
account as an ordinary claim.
Mrs. Winn and DuBose carried this judgment to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana for review. That court, assuming that the
facts which the evidence introduced in the District Court
tended to prove were established, reversed the judgment of the
District Court on the ground that the act of Congress on which
Mayfield relied to suspend prescription applied only to causes
and proceedings in the courts of the United States, and not to
causes and proceedings in the courts of the States, and that the
claim of Mayfield was therefore prescribed when Mrs. Winn,
*the executrix, undertook to acknowledge it in January, 1866.
The present writ of error, sued out by Mayfield, brought the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana under review.
Xr.. . T. iericl, for plaintiff in error.
s'.

Gus. A. Breaux for defendants in error.

MkFIELD v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JSTCE WOODS,

after stating the facts in the foregoing

language, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is well settled in Louisiana that when a claim against a
succession has been formally acknowledged by the executor or
administrator, no suit should be brought upon it, and no suit or
other proceeding is necessary to prevent prescription as long as
the property of the succession remains in the hands of the executbr or administrator under administration. Renshaw v.
,.fvord, 30 La. Ann. 853; .- araistv. Guilheau, 31 La. Ann.
713; .Porterv. .- orn,by, 32 La. Ann. 337; Cloutierv. Lem e, 33
La. Ann. 305; Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640. If, therefore,
the acknowledgment of Mrs. Winn, executrix, made in January, 1866, were made before the notes were prescribed, prescription has been suspended ever since, for the succession of
The notes were all
Winn is still under administration.
barred in November and December, 1865, by the prescription
of five years established by Article 3540 of the Civil Code of
Louisiana, unless prescription was suspended by the act of Congress above recited. The case, therefore, turned in the Supreme Court of Louisiana upon the question whether the act
of Congress was applicable. That court decided that it was not,
and denied to the appellant the right set up and claimed by him
under that statute. If the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana was wrong upon this point, this court has jurisdiction to review and reverse its judgment. Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
The facts of the case, as shown by the record, bring it within
the terms of the act of Congress. The parish of Rapides was
within the Confederate lines during the entire period of the civil
war, except for a few weeks, when it was occupied by the
Federal troops. The authority of the United States was reestablished over the City of New Orleans on -May 1, 1862.
The payees of the notes were shown to have been domiciled in
the city at that time, and as there is no evidence that they
afterwards changed their domicil, the presumption is that it continued unchanged. Desnmare v. United States, 93 U. S. 605.
Mayfield is shown to have been a resident in New Orleans.
It appears, therefore, that the executrix of the succession of
Winn was within the Confederate lines, and the payees and

OCTOBER TERM, 184.
Opinion of the Court.

the endorsee of the notes within the Federal lines. Under
these circumstances they could not lawfully institute proceedings against the succession of Winn, in the parish of Rapides,
to enforce the payment of the notes, for intercourse across the
military lines was forbidden by law. Moreover, while the prescription of five years was running, the courts of the parish,
which alone had jurisdiction of the succession of Winn, were
closed for more than a year, a period well described by Lord
Coke: "So, when by invasion, insurrection, rebellion, or such
like, the peaceable course of justice is disturbed and stopped,
so as the courts of justice be, as it were, shut up et silent leges
inter arma, then it is said to be time of war." Co. Lit. 249 b.
The case, therefore, falls within the letter of the act of Congress; and if that act applies to and governs cases in the courts
of the States, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
was erroneous.
The question thus raised was expressly decided by this court
in the case of Stewart v. Zahn. 11 Wall. 493, where it was
held that the act applied to cases in the courts of the States as
well as of the United States, and that thus construed the act
was constitutional. We are satisfied with the judgment of the
court in that case, and are unwilling to question or re-examine it.
The decision in Stewart v. Kahn was followed by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in Aby v. Brigham, 28 La. Ann. 8410.
These cases are conclusive of the present controversy, and,
adhering to the ruling made in them, we are of opinion that
the notes held by Mayfield were not prescribed, and that
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iouisianashould be
reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions to enter judgment that the claim of .3ayfield based
on the nine notes qf Walter 0. TFinn, is a legal and valid
debt due from his succession, and that it was properly
placed in the provisional account qf the dative testamentary
executor as an ordinary claim; and it is so ordered.

