OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

LANCASTER v. COLLINS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted October 23, 1885.-Decided November 2, 1885.
The bill of exceptions in this case contained all the evidence, and the charge
to the jury. There was no exception to the charge. The court refused to
direct a verdict for the plaintiff, it being asked for on the ground of a variance between the proof and the answer ; and there was a verdict for the
defendant : Held, That there was no such variance, and that the question
of the existence of the defence set up was fairly put to the jury, on conflicting evidence.
This court cannot review the weight of the evidence, and can look into it only
to see whether there was error in not directing a verdict for the plaintiff,
on the question of variance, or because there was no evidence to sustain the
verdict.
The question as to which party shall make the closing argument to the jury
is one of practice, and is not the subject of a bill of exceptions or of a writ
of error.
Rulings on the admission of evidence sustained.
No judgment should be reversed in a court of error when it is clear that the
error could not have prejudiced, and did not prejudice, the rights of the
party against whom the ruling was made.

On the 29th of September, 1873, Henry E. Collins executed
and delivered to the Big Muddy Iron Company his promissory
note, payable ninety days after date, to its order, for $10,000.
It was indorsed successively by the company, by Thomas
O'Reilly, by Amelia Collins, and by Richard D. Lancaster.
From the latter it passed to the National Bank of the State
of Missouri. The bank obtained a judgment on it against the
Company, and O'Reilly, and Henry E. Collins, and Lancaster,
for $11,290.68 and costs. O'Reilly paid to the bank one-half
of the amount due on the judgment, and Collins refunded it to
him. Lancaster paid to the bank the other half of the amount
due on the judgment, and then brought this suit against Collins
to recover from him the sum so paid.
Collins, in his answer to the petition, set up the following
defence: "That the Big Muddy Iron Company.was a corpora-

LANCASTER v. COLLINS.
Statement of Facts.

tion, duly organized under the laws of the State of Missouri,
and that, on the day of the execution of said note and the delivery thereof to the said company, the plaintiff in this suit was
the president thereof; that said note was given in part consideration for one hundred and thirty shares of stock of the
said Big Muddy Iron Company; that the plaintiff solicited this
defendant to subscribe for said stock at its par value; that,
yielding to the solicitation of the said plaintiff in that behalf,
this defendant did subscribe for said stock, and paid in cash
the sum of three thousand dollars, and executed the beforementioned note for the balance; that, before the defendant
would agree to subscribe for said stock, and execute the said
note, and pay the said sum of three thousand dollars, it was
agreed and understood, between the plaintiff and defendant,
that the defendant should pay in cash the sum of three thousand
dollars, and execute his note at ninety days for ten thousand
dollars, with the privilege, upon the part of this defendant,
to renew the same, from time to time, as it became due, and
that the one hundred and thirty shares of stock in the said Big
Muddy Iron Company, the par value of which was thirteen
thousand dollars, should be held by.the said plaintiff as collateral security for the payment of said note, with the right, upon
the part of this defendant, if he saw proper to avail himself of
it, within one year from the date of said note, to forfeit the
three thousand dollars in cash and the said one hundred and
thirty shares of stock, and be relieved from further liability on
said note; that, in pursuance of said agreement, the said one
hundred and thirty shares of stock were placed with the plaintiff
as collateral security, the three thousand dollars in cash were
paid, and the said note for ten thousand dollars was executed
and delivered; that defendant, before the expiration of said
year, notified the said plaintiff that he would forfeit said three
thousand dollars and stock, and that the note would not be
paid by him. Defendant says that the said stock was never
returned or offered to be returned to him by the plaintiff, or
any one for him. Wherefore, defendant says that the plaintiff
has no right of action against him, that he owes the plaintiff
nothing, and prays to be dismissed hence, with his costs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Issue being joined, the action was tried by a jury, which
found a verdict for Collins, and there was a judgment in his
favor, whereupon Lancaster brought this writ of error.
There was a bill of exceptions, containing all the evidence
in the cause. It also set forth the charge to the jury, but
there was no exception to the charge. The plaintiff, however,
requested the court, after the evidence was all in, to instruct
the jury to render a verdict for the plaintiff, which request was
refused, and the plaintiff excepted. This refusal was assigned
for error, on the- alleged ground of a variance between the
proof and the answer.
Xlir. George A. Castleman for plaintiff in error.-The refusal
of the court below to instruct the jury that the verdict in this
cause should be for plaintiff for the amount claimed in the petition was error; because the contract in evidence and submitted in
the charge was one between Collins and Lancaster, binding the
latter, at the option of the former, to take stock and assume the
payment of the note, while the contract alleged in the answer
was between Collins and Big Muddy Iron Company, whereby
the former was to forfeit his stock and be relieved of the note
given tor it. This constituted a total "failure of proof" as
provided in Rev. Stat. Missouri, 1879, ยง 3702, construed in
Faulkner v. FBulkner, 73 Missouri, 327; IFaldhier v. Raili'oacZ Co., 71 Missouri, 514; and not a "variance" provided
for in Rev. Stat. Missouri, 1879, ยง 3565 ; construed in XlJeyer
v. Chambers, 68 Missouri, 626; Olemen'ts v. .Maloney, 55 1KiIssouri, 352. The charge submitted to the jury as an open question of fact what is distinctly declared in the answer, viz.: that
the stock was deposited with and "should be held by the plaintiff as collateral security for the payment of said note." The
contract, as alleged in the answer, was collateral to the contract alleged of Big Muddy Iron Company to relieve Collins,
on his so electing, from the payment of the note; the contract
was shown by the testimony to have been not in writing,
and was, therefore, under the statute of frauds, void as a contract for the default of another.
It was further error to refuse plaintiff the right of closing.

LANCASTER v. COLLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

The affirmative in this case was upon plaintiff, for the affirmative matter set up in the answer was only a denial of the implied assumpsit growing out of the facts alleged in the petition,
and was not a confession and avoidance of plaintiff's cause of
action.
No appearance for defendant in error.
M. JUSTICE BLATeHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
It is contended that the answer alleges that the agreement
made by Collins with Lancaster was made with the latter as
president of the company, and that it does not allege any agreement by Lancaster personally, to take the stock subscribed for
by Collins and pay the note, while the verdict was rendered
for the defendant on the theory that there was such an agreement by Lancaster personally. We think that a fair construction of the answer, in view of the history of the case, as given
in the evidence, is, that it alleges such an agreement. Lancaster received from Collins the certificate for the stock, with a
transfer of it in blank signed by Collins, and indorsed the note,
and it was discounted for the benefit of the company. The
question of the existence of such an agreement by Lancaster
personally was fairly put to the jury in the charge of the court.
There was conflicting evidence in regard to it. This court cannot review the weight of the evidence, and can look into it only
to see whether there was error in not directing a verdict for
the plaintiff on the question of variance, or because there was
no evidence to sustain the verdict rendered.
It is also assigned for error, that the court refused to permit
the counsel for the plaintiff to make the closing argument to
the jury, the contention on the part of the plaintiff being that
the affirmative was with him. But this is purely a question of
practice, to be reviewed only by a motion for a new trial in
the trial court, and is not the proper subject of a bill of exceptions or of a writ of error, because it does not affect the merits
of the controversy. Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363, 370.
VOL CXV-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff, as a witness, at the trial, was asked, on crossexamination, by the defendant, what was the value of the 130
shares of stock, and whether it was good security for the
$10,000 note. The question was objected to as immaterial and
irrelevant, but was admitted. The answer was, that if it had
been paid up, he would have thought it good security, but it
was not paid up and he thought it was not good security. The
answer did not tend to prejudice the plaintiff, but the contrary;
for he was seeking to prove that he had not taken the stock
personally as security for his indorsement, and fhe fact that
the stock was inadequate security to him went rather to show
that he was not looking for security for his personal liability.
Besides, the question was put on cross-examination, and was
proper as showing the character of the stock, in view of the
evidence the plaintiff had given, on his direct examination, as
to the transaction respecting the stock.
The defendant was allowed, under objection, to put in evidence, from the book of minutes of the board of directors of
the company, the proceedings of the board at four meetings
held between the time of the original transaction in regard to
the stock and the date of the note on which the judgment was
recovered, that note being a renewal of prior notes. These
proceedings were in the handwriting of the defendant, who
was the secretary of the company, and the plaintiff, who was
a director of the company, was present at all of the meetings
in question. The proceedings contained nothing which appeared to relate to this controversy, but referred only to the
purchase of property by the company, and to the mode of
paying for stock, and the powers of the secretary, and sundry
minor matters. The objection made, at the time, to the introduction of these minutes, was, that they were irrelevant, incompetent, and immaterial, and tended to confuse, in the minds of

the jury, the true issue to be tried, and could not throw any
light upon the question on trial. The same objection was
made to the putting in evidence of the proceedings of a meeting of the stockholders of the company, at which the plaintiff
was pretent, held prior to the date of the note on which the
judgment was recovered, and of the proceedings of nine meet-

LANCASTER v. COLLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

ings of the board of directors, and one meeting of the stockholders, held after that date, at all of which the plaintiff was
present. These proceedings contained nothing which appeared
to relate to this controversy, but they showed the pecuniary
embarrassment of the company, and the execution by it of a
deed of trust to secure its indebtedness, and the final sale of
its property. The only matter in all these proceedings which
could possibly have operated to the prejudice of the plaintiff
was the fact that the stock had become worthless, it being
argued that the jury might have been induced thereby to relieve the defendant from paying any more on account of the
worthless stock, after he had paid the $3,000 to the company,
and the one-half of the judgment to O'Reilly. But we think
it sufficiently appears from other testimony that the stock became worthless. Aside from this, we do not see anything in
the proceedings objected to which could possibly have harmed
the plaintiff more than the defendant, or have benefited the
defendant to the prejudice of the plaintiff. To show that the
stock was worthless, showed that neither party could derive
any advantage from it, and left the case between the plaintiff
and the defendant to be decided without reference to any value
in the stock. No judgment should be reversed in a court of
error when it is clear that the error could not have prejudiced,
and did not prejudice, the rights of the party against whom
the ruling was made. Deery v. Cray, 5 Wall. 795, 803; Gregg
v. .11o8s, 14 Wall. 564, 569; Lucas v. Broo7s, 18 Wall. 436,454;
A7Uhs v. Insurance Co., 97 U. S. 144, 145; Cannon v. Pratt,
99 U. S. 619, 623; Jflning Co. v. Taylor, 100 U. S. 37, 42;
Hornbuckle v. Staford, 111 U. S. 389, 394.
Judgment affirmed.

