POPE v. ALLIS.
Statement of Facts.

pired ; and therefore, within the rule laid down in Marren v.
Stoddard, 105 U. S. 224, no damages should have been decreed.
But the Circuit Court having found, as facts, that various
negotiations were pending between the parties after the first
refusal until September 30, and that it was by reason of the
failure of the charterers to accept the ship, furnish a cargo, and
comply with their contract, that the owner suffered damages to
the amount decreed, no error in law is shown in the decree;
and it is not open to revision by this court in matter of fact.
Act of February 16, 1875, ch. '7, § 1, 18 Stat. 315 ; The Abbots1
ford, 98 U. S. 440; The .7 anci8 T2'ight, 105 U. S.381; Tie
Connemara,108 U. S.352.
-Decreeajfirmed.

POPE & Another v. ALLIS.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE NITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Argued October 2-9,1885.-Decided November 9, 1885.

Where the complaint alleged a contract for delivery of iron at one place, and
the answer a contract for delivery at a different place, evidence offered by
the plaintiff which tended to support the averment of the answer was properly admitted under § 2669 Rev. Stat. of Wisconsin, the defendants having failed at the trial to prove that they were misled by the variance
between the complaint and the proof.
Averments made under oath, in a pleading in an action at law, are competent
evidence in another suit against the party making them; and the fact that
the averments are made on information and belief goes only to their weight
and not to their admissibility as evidence.
Where goods of a specified quality, not in existence or ascertained, are sold,
and the seller undertakes to ship them to a distant buyer, and, when they
are made or ascertained, delivers them to a carrier for the buyer, the latter,
on their arrival, has the right, if they are not of the quality required by
the contract, to reject them and rescind the sale, and, if he has paid for
them, to recover back the price in a suit against the seller.

Edward P. Allis, the defendant in error, was the plaintiff in

the Circuit Court. He brought his suit to recover from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

defendants, Thomas J. Pope and James E. Pope, now the
plaintiffs in error, the sum of $17,840, the price of five hundred
tons of pig iron, which he alleged he had bought from them
and paid for, but which he refused to accept because it was not
of the quality which the defendants had agreed to furnish.
The plaintiff also demanded $1750, freight on the iron, which
he alleged he had paid.
The facts appearing upon the record were as follows: The
plaintiff carried on the business of an iron founder in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, and the defendants were brokers in iron in the city
of New York. In the month of January, 1880, by correspondence carried on by mail and telegraph, the defendants agreed
to sell and deliver to the plaintiff five hundred tons of No. 1
extra American and three hundred tons No. 1 extra Glengarnock (Scotch) pig iron. The American iron was to be delivered on the cars at the furnace bank at Coplay, Pennsylvania,
and the Scotch at the yard of the defendants in New York.
By a subsequent correspondence between the plaintiff and the
defendants it fairly appeared that the latter agreed to ship the
iron for the plaintiff at Elizabethport, New Jersey. It was to
be shipped as early in the spring as cheap freights could be
had, consigned to the National Exchange Bank at Milwaukee,
which, in behalf of the plaintiff, agreed tci pay for the iron on
receipt of the bills of lading. That quantity of American iron
was landed at Milwaukee and delivered to the plaintiff about
July 15. Before its arrival*at Milwaukee the plaintiff had not
only paid for the iron but also the freight from Coplay to Milwaukee. Soon after the arrival in Milwaukee the plaintiff examined the 500 tons American iron, to which solely the controversy in this case referred, and refused to accept it on the
ground that it was not of the grade called for by the contract,
and at once gave the defendants notice of the fact, and that he
held the iron subject to their order, and brought this suit to recover the price of the iron and the freight thereon.
The defences relied on to defeat the action were (1) that the
iron delivered by the defendants to the plaintiff was No. 1
extra American iron, and was of the kind and quality required
by the contract; and (2) that the title having passed to the

POPE v. ALLIS.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

plaintiff when the iron was shipped to him at Elizabethport, he
could not afterwards rescind the contract and sue for the price
of the iron and the freight which he had paid, but must sue
for a breach of the warranty.
It was conceded upon the trial that, if the plaintiff was entitled to recover at all, his recovery should be for $22,315.40.
The defendants pleaded a counterclaim for $5311, which was
admitted by the plaintiff. The jury returned a verdict for the
plaintiff for $16,513.11, for which sum and costs the court rendered a judgment against the defendants. This writ of error
brought that judgment under review.
3fl'. George P. .Miller for plaintiffs in error [.Ab. -rilliaim
P. Lynde also filed a brief for same].-Four hundred and
forty tons of the iron in controversy were delivered to the defendant in error at the furnace' bank, and sixty tons at Elizabethport. The contract was for the delivery of No. 1 Ex.
American Iron. When it was entered into in January, 1880,it
was executory. It became executed when the plaintiffs in
error appropriated particular iron to fulfil it. Browne v.
Hare, 4 H. & N. 822; Campbell v. .3-erey Docks, 14 C. B. N.
S. 412; Dixon v. Yates, 5 B. & Ad. 313, 340. And the
arrangement which was made for the shipment of the iron and
the sending of the bills of lading to the National Exchange
Bank of Milwaukee was entirely independent of the sale, and
the defendants were acting in that matter under the direction
and as the agents of the plaintiff, as the sale was completed on
the delivery of the iron at the place designated in the contract.
Hatch v. Oil Co., 100 U. S. 124, 137.
We asked the court to instruct the jury "to return a verdict
for the defendants," (1) Upon the ground that there was no
evidence in the case sustaining the contract as it was set forth
in the complaint, that the iron was to be delivered in Milwaukee. (2) That there was no evidence that the iron received by
plaintiff from lake vessels was the same iron delivered to
plaintiff at the furnace bank free on board the cars, or the
same that was shipped on the canal boats at Elizabethport,
New Jersey. (3) There was no legal evidence upon which a

OCTOBER TERM, 18e5.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

verdict for plaintiff could be sustained. We were entitled to
that instruction. See Lieb v. Henderson, 91 Il. 282. This
court has said in Mlanningv. Insurance Co., 100 U. S. 693, 697,
"It is error to submit to a jury to find a fact of which there is
no competent evidence." "We do not question that a jury
may be allowed to presume the existence of a fact in some
cases from the existence of other facts which have been proved.
But the presumed fact must have an immediate connection
with or relation to the established fact from which it is inferred. If it has not, it is regarded a8 too remote. The only
presumptions of fact which the law recognizes are immediate
inferences from facts proved. Remarking upon this subject,
in United States v. Ross, 92 U. S. 281, 284, we said, ' Whenever circumstantial evidence is relied upon to prove a fact, the
circumstances must be proved, and not themselves be presumed.'
Referring to the rule laid down in Starkie on Evidence, page
80, we added: 'It is upon this principle that courts are daily
called upon to exclude evidence as too remote for the consideration of the jury. The law requires an open and visible connection between the principal and evidentiary facts and the
deductions from them, and does not permit a decision to be
made on remote inferences. Best on Ev. 95. A presumption
which a jury may make is not a circumstance in proof, and is
not, therefore, a legitimate foundation for a presumption.
There is no open and visible connection between the fact out
of which the first presumption arises and the fact sought to
be established by the dependent presumption. -Douglass v.
Mitchell, 35 Penn. St. 440.'"
The iron in controversy was sold with warranty of quality.
It was to be No. 1 Extra American iron. Words of that
description in a sale of personal property constitute a warranty
that the property is of the quality described. Hogins v. Plympton, 11 Pick. 97; Henshaw v. Robins, 9 Met. 83; 1yon v.
Bertram, 20 How. 149, 153. On a breach of warranty of
quality, the purchaser of personal property cannot, in the absence of fraud, rescind the contract of purchase and sale, and
sue to recover the purchase price. There is a conflict of authority in the American courts on this point. See Benjamin on

POPE v. ALLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Sales, 4th Am. Ed. (1883), §§ 62-1-31. But the question has
been decided by this court, and it is unnecessary to discuss it.
7ornton v. TWynn, 12 Wheat. 183; Lyon v. Bertram, cited
above. In any aspect of the case, the attempted rescission of
the contract was not made within a reasonable time. Such
rescission should be made, if at all, within a time when the
seller could be put in stat uo. See authorities last cited.
. l.. ?Ipa H1unton [.
defendant in error.

. .G. Ten-in also filed a brief] for

MR. JUSTIcE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
He
stated the facts in the language above reported, and continued:
1. The first assignment of error relates to nine exceptions to
the admission of evidence by the court against the objection of
the plaintiffs in error. The complaint having alleged that
the contract between the parties was for the delivery of the
iron at Milwaukee, the plaintiffs in error objected to the introduction of evidence offered by the defendant in error which
tended to show a contract for the delivery of the iron at Coplay or Elizabethport, because the proof offered did not support
the averments of the complaint, and the court having overruled
their objections and admitted the evidence, they now contend
that the judgment should for that reason be reversed.
But it is clear that, under § 2669 Rev. Stat. of Wisconsin,
which constitutes a rule for the guidance of the Federal
courts in that State, this assignment of error is not well
taken. The section mentioned provides: "No variance between the allegations in pleading and the proof shall be
deemed material unless it shall actually mislead the adverse
party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defence
on its merits; whenever it shall be alleged that a party has
been so misled, the fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of
the court in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon
the court may order the pleading to be amended upon such
terms as may be just."
The answer of the plaintiffs in error denied that the contract
provided for the delivery of the iron in IMilwaukee, and averred

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

that the iron was to be delivered at Coplay. We do not think
that evidence offered by the defendant in error, which tended
to establish the averments of the answer rather than of the
complaint, was such a variance as could mislead the plaintiffs
in error to their prejudice in maintaining their defence upon
the merits.. But, if they had been really misled, they should
have proved the fact to the satisfaction of the court upon the
trial. Having neglected to do this, they cannot now complain.
It is clear that, under the statute of Wisconsin, the plaintiffs in
error had no just ground of exception to the admission of the
evidence objected to. Bonner v. Home Insurance Co., 13 Wise.
677 [Vilas & Bryant's Ed. 758] ; Leopold v. Van Erk, 30 Wisc.
548, 553 ; Grifert v. West, 33 Wise. 617. These cases show that
the discrepancy between the pleading and the proof was a variance within the meaning of the statute of Wisconsin, and that
the section cited is applicable to the question in hand.
2. The next contention of the plaintiffs in error is, that evidence was improperly admitted by the Circuit Court to show
that the iron landed at Milwaukee was not of the quality required by the contract, the defendant in error not having
shown or offered to show, as the plaintiffs in error insisted, that
it was the same iron which the defendant in error had purchased, and which had been shipped at Elizabethport. And on
the ground that the identity of the iron was not shown, the
plaintiffs in error insist that the court erred in refusing to
charge the jury, as requested by them, to return a verdict in
their favor.
We think the assignment of error is not supported by the
record. The defendant in error did introduce evidence, and,
as it seems to us, persuasive evidence, to show that the iron
shipped for the defendant in error at Elizabethport was the iron
landed and delivered to him at Milwaukee.
The testimony introduced tended to prove that one Hazard,
on whose dock, at Elizabethpoit, New Jersey, iron belonging
to the plaintiffs in error was stacked, shipped between April
28 and May 12, at Elizabethport, on five canal boats, whose
names are given, five hundred tons of American iron, consigned
to Thomas J. Pope & Brother, care iational Exchange Bank,

POPE v. ALLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Milwaukee, 'Wisconsin, and to be transported to Milwaukee by
the river, canal, and lakes; that about the same time there was
shipped to the same consignees, and to the care of the same
bank, the three hundred tons of Scotch iron, which had been
sold by the plaintiffs in error to the defendant in error.
It was further shown that, on June 9 and 15 following,
eight hundred tons of iron, five hundred being American and
three hundred Scotch, were transferred from the dock at Buffalo to two schooners, and the bills of lading given by the
schooners stated that the five hundred tons of American iron
were the cargo of canal boats of the same name as those on
which the iron had been shipped at Elizabethport, and it appeared that both the American and Scotch iron transferred to
the schooners was consigned to Thomas J. Pope & Brother,
care National Exchange Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It was
further shown that, about July 15, the two schooners, above
mentioned, landed at Milwaukee five hundred tons American
iron and three hundred tons of Scotch iron for the consignees
mentioned in the bills of lading, and the iron was delivered to
the defendant in error, and it was conceded that the three hundred tons of Scotch iron were the same which had been sold by
the plaintiffs in error to the defendant in error and shipped to
said consignees for him.
In addition to this evidence, the defendant in error introduced the deposition of James E. Pope, one of the plaintiffs in
error, in which he testified as follows : "There is a suit pending
between my firm, as plaintiff, and the Coplay Iron Company,
as defendant, relating to the American iron shipped to E. P.
Allis & Co." .As an exhibit to this deposition there was a copy
of the complaint in the suit, sworn to by James E. Pope, from
which it appeared that the action was brought to recover of
the Coplay Iron Company damages for the breach of a contract by which that company warranted that a certain five hundred tons of iron, sold by it to the plaintiff in said suit, as INo.
1 extra iron, was of that quality, and it clearly appeared from
the complaint referred to, that one of the facts on which the
cause of action was based was, that the five hundred tons of
iron sold and shipped by the plaintiffs in error to the care of
vOL. Cx-v-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the National Exchange Bank, for the defendant in error, as
No. 1 extra American iron, was the identical iron delivered for
him to the bank at i:lwaukee, and. which he had purchased
and paid for.
We, therefore, repeat, that there was persuasive evidence offered to show that the iron shipped at Elizabethport, for the
defendant in error at Milwaukee, was the identical iron landed
at Milwaukee and received by him. The assignments of error,
based on the contention that there was no such evidence, must,
therefore, fall.
3. The bill of exceptions shows that the complaint above
mentioned in the suit of the plaintiffs in error against the Coplay Iron Company was sworn to by James E. Pope, that it
contained an averment on information and belief touching the
quality of the iron in controversy in this suit, and that the
plaintiffs in error asked the court on the trial of this case to
charge the jury that such complaint was not evidence of any
facts therein stated on information and belief. The court refused the charge, but instructed the jury that, in determining
what weight as an admission the complaint should have, they
might consider the fact that the allegation in relation to the
quality of the iron in question was made on information and
belief.
The plaintiffs in error having excepted at the trial, now assign
as error the refusal of the court to give the charge requested.
We think the court did not err in its refusal.
When a bill or answer in equity or a pleading in an action
at law is sworn to by the party, it is competent evidence against
him in another suit as a solemn admission by him of the truth
of the facts stated. Studdy v. Sanders, 2 D. & R. 347; De
Whelydale v. 3Iilburn, 5 Price, 485; Central Bridge v. Lowell,
15 Gray, 106; Bl& v.Nieholo, 12 Allen, 443; Elliott v.1Tayden,
104: Mass. 180; Cook v. Barr 44 N. Y. 156; Taylor on Evidence, § 1753, 7th Ed.; Greenleaf Evidence, §§ 552, 555.
When the averment is made on information and belief, it is
nevertheless admissible as evidence, though not conclusive.
Lord Ellenborough, in Doe v. Steel, 3 Camp. 115. The authority cited sustains the proposition that the fact that the aver-

POPE v. ALLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

ment is made on information and belief merely detracts from
the weight of the testimony; it does not render it inadmissible.
The charge given by the Circuit Court on this point, therefore,
deprived the plaintiffs in error of no advantage to which they
were entitled.
4. The assignment of error mainly relied on by the plaintiffs
in error is that the court refused to instruct the jury to return
a verdict for the defendants. The legal proposition upon which
their counsel based this request was, that the purchaser of
personal property, upon breach of warranty of quality, cannot,
in the absence of fraud, rescind the contract of purchase and
sale and sue for the recovery of the price. And they contended that, as the iron was delivered to defendant in error
either at Coplay or Elizabethport, and the sale was completed
thereby, the only remedy of the defendant in error was by a
suit upon the warranty.
It did not appear that at the date of the contract the iron
had been manufactured, and it was shown by the record that
no particular iron was segregated and appropriated to the contract by the plaintiffs in error until a short time before its shipment, in the latter part of April and the early part of May.
The defendant in error had no opportunity to inspect it until
it arrived in Milwaukee, and consequently never accepted the
particular iron appropriated to fill the contract. It was established by the verdict of the jury that the iron shipped was not
of the quality required by the contract. Under these circumstances the contention of the plaintiffs in error is, that the defendant in error, although the iron shipped to him was not
what he bought, and could not be used in his business, was
bound to keep it, and could only recover the difference in value
between the iron for which he contracted and the iron which
was delivered to him.
We do not think that such is the law. When the subjectmatter of a sale is not in existence, or not ascertained at the
time of the contract, an undertaking that it shall, when existing or ascertained, possess certain qualities, is not a mere
warranty, but a condition, the performance of which is precedent to any obligation upon the vendee under the contract;

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

because the existence of those qualities being part of the description of the thing sold becomes essential to its identity,
and the vendee cannot be obliged to receive and pay for a
thing different from that for which he contracted. Chanter v.
qfopkins, 4 Mvf. & W. 399, 404; Barr v. Gibson, 3 M. & W.
390; Gompertz v. Bartlett, 2 El. & B1. 849; Okell v. Smith, 1
Stark N. P. 86 ; Notes to Cutter v. Powell, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 37, 7th Am. -Ed.; Proodle v. Whitney, 23 Wisc.
55; Boothby v. Scales, 27 Wisc. 626; Fairfield v. .Aadison
.Zan. Co., 38 Wisc. 346. See also HYichol v. Godts, 10 IExch.
191.

So, in a recent case decided by this court, it was said by Mm
JUsTicE GRAY: "A statement" in a mercantile contract "de-

scriptive of the subject-matter or of some material incident,
such as the time or place of shipment, is ordinarily to be regarded as a warranty in the sense in which that term is used
in insurance and maritime law, that is to say, a condition precedent upon the failure or non-performance of which the party
aggrieved may repudiate the whole contract." .Norrington v.
Wright, ante, 188. See also Filley v. Pope, ante, 213.
And so, when a contract for the sale of goods is made by
sample, it amounts to an undertaking on the part of the seller
with the buyer that all the goods are similar, both in nature
and quality, to those exhibited, and if they do not correspond
the buyer may refuse to receive them, or if received, he may
return them in a reasonable time allowed for examination, and
thus rescind the contract. lorymer v. Srth,1 B. & 0. 1;
Magee v. Billingsley, 3 Ala. 619.
The authorities cited sustain this proposition, that when a
vendor sells goods of a specified quality, but not in existence
or ascertained, and undertakes to ship them to a distant buyer
when made or ascertained, and delivers them to the carrier for
the purchaser, the latter is not bound to accept them without
examination. The mere delivery of the goods by the vendor
to the carrier does not necessarily bind the vendee to accept
them. On their arrival he has the right to inspect them to
ascertain whether they conform to the contract, and the right
to inspect implies the right to reject them if they are not of

BELL v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO.

373

Syllabus.

the quality required by the contract. The rulings of the
Circuit Court were in accordance with these views.
We have been referred by the plaintiffs in error to the cases
of Tflornton. v. Wfrynn, 12 Wheat. 183, and Eyon v. Bertram,
20 How.149, to sustain the proposition that the defendant in
error in this case could not rescind the contract and sue to recover back the price of the iron. But the cases are not in
point. In the first there was an absolute sale with warranty
and delivery to the vendee of a specific chattel, namely, a race
horse ; in the second, the sale was of a specified and designated
lot of flour which the vendee had accepted, and part of which
he had used, with ample means to ascertain whether or not it
conformed to the contract.
The cases we have cited are conclusive against the contention of the plaintiffs in error. The jury has found that the
iron was not of the quality which the contract required, and,
on that ground, the defendant in error, at the first opportunity,
rejected it, as he had a right to do. His suit to recover the
price was, therefore, well brought.
Other errors are assigned, but, in our opinion, they present
no ground for the reversal of the judgment, and do not require
discussion.
Judgment aflrmed.

BELL & Others v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
CHICAGO.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICr OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted October 30,1885.-Decided November 16, 1885.

A bill of exchange, dated March 4, payable in London, 60 days after sight,
drawn in Illinois, on a person in Liverpool, and accepted by him "due 21st
May," without any date of acceptance, was protested for non-payment on
the 21st of May. In a suit against the drawer, on the bill, it was not shown
what was the date of acceptance: Hed,That the bill was prematurely protested, it not appearing that days of grace were allowed.

