CLARK v. BEECHER MFG. COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

CLARK v. BEECHER MAIN-UFACTUR-TG COMPANY
& Another.
APPA.L FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued April 17, 1885.-Decided May 4, 185.

Letters patent No. 66,130, granted to James B. Clark, June 25, 1867, for an
"improvement in the manufacture of blanks for carriage tbill shackles,"
are not infringed by the manufacture of blanks for shackles in accordance
with letters patent No. 106,225, granted to Willis B. Smith, August 9,1870.
The features of the Clark patent are, that, by dies, the arms of the blank are
bent into an oblique direction, and the body into a curved form, so that the
parts where the arms join the body are rounded on the outside as well as
the inside ; and that when, subsequently, the curved body is straightened,
there will be in it sufficient metal to form sharp outside corners, by being
pushed out into them.
The arms of the Smith blank are not bent in an oblique direction, its body is
not curved, the parts where the arms join the body are not rounded, either
on the inside or on the outside, and, in afterwards straightening the back,
surplus metal is not pushed towards or into the corners, to form them, but
the existing corners, already formed, are forced further apart, by driving
surplus metal into the back, between the corners.
In view of the state of the art, and the terms of the Clark patent, it must be
confined, at least, to a shape which, for practical use, in subsequent manipulation, has a disposition of metal which causes a sharp corner to be formed
in substantially the same way as by the use of his blank.

This was a bill in equity to restrain an infringement of a
patent. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.iL,. TWilliam Edgar Simonds for appellant.
M'. 0. H. ]Platt for appellees.
Mi. JUSTICE 3LATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Connecticut, by James B.
Clark against The Beecher Manufacturing Company, a Connecticut corporation, and D. F. Southwick, for the infringement of letters patent No. 66,130, granted to the plaintiff,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

June 25, 1 S67, for an "improvement in the manufacture of
blanks for carriage thill shackles." The main defence to the
suit is non-infringement. The Circuit Court, after a hearing
and two rehearings, dismissed the bill, holding that infringement had not been proved. 7 Fed. Rep. 816. The plaintiff
has appealed.
A history of the state of the art, and of the progress of invention in making shackle blanks, will conduce to a determination of the questions involved. A carriage thill shackle is a
device by which the thills of a carriage are hinged to the axle.

The finished shackle is a horiz6ntal plate, with a pair of vertical ears rising therefrom, one at each end of the back. The
cockeye on the end of the thill is received between the ears,
and a bolt passing through the ears and the cockeye secures the
parts. The flat back or body part of the article is forged with
a projection at each side, forming what is commonly called the
"clip," by which the article is secured to the axle. In forming
the shackle, if is necessary that the outside corners, where the
ears join the back, should be sharp, full and square, to obtain
a good bearing on the axle, or the article will not be salable.
The old style of shackle was of this shape. It was formed by
Section Mn

X-- -X

TOP

bending up the two ears from a piece of metal of equal thickness, and the outer corners became round, and the bearing on
the axle was not firm and true. It was desirable to obtain in
some way a reservoir or surplus of metal, which could be utilized, in the bending, by being thrown out into or remaining in
the corners, to make them full and square on the outside. To

CLARK v. BEECHER MFG. COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

attain this result, one James P. Thorp made an invention for
which he obtained letters patent No. 28,114, granted May 1,
1860, which were reissued to his assignees, H. D. Smith and
others, as No. 2,362, September 18, 1866. Thorp's blank was
of the following shape: The two projections on the bottom of

TOp

Sedim

mfxt---x.

the blank were intended to furnish sufficient metal to make
the outer corners of the shackle square and sharp, when the
ears were bent in the direction indicated by the arrows. The
projections were at the places where the arms joined the body.
Thorp's patent showed a die for making the blank, constructed
with recesses or cavities to form the projections, and stated
that, after the arms were bent up, the blank, instead of being
of the old form, Fig. 6, with rounded corners, a, a, thus:

VOL. 0XV-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

would be of the form of Fig. 7, with square or right-angled
corners, a, a, thus:

the blank being stronger at the junction of the arms and body,
and the expansion of the metal, in bending the arm, being compensated for by a diagonal contraction of the metal, which
operated to prevent the destruction of the cohesion of the particles of the metal, and the consequent weakening of the blank
at the parts where it was bent.
The next step is shown in letters patent No. 65,641, granted
June 11, 1867, to Leander Burns and Josiah Wilcox, on the
invention of Burns. That patent shows, in Fig. 7, an upper die
M, and a lower die NT, and the blank made between them, with
square corners, L, L thus:
37.

-Fig. 7 is a transverse vertical section taken in the plane of the
line y y, in Fig. 6. Fig. 6 is a face view of the lower die, N,
and shows also the blank after it is acted on by the dies. The
specification states, that, if the arms of the blank are bent up
at right angles, in a direction towards each other, perfect square
corners will be left at L, L, with the metal through those corners and the other parts of a uniform thickness.

CLARK v. BEECHER MFG. COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

Then followed the patent to the plaintiff, the specification
and drawings of which are as follows:
"This invention relates to the construction of carriage shaft
shackles from solid blanks, and to the shape of the dies for
forming the same, so that, with the least amount of labor and
power, the said shackle may be gradually formed into the required shape. In the annexed drawings this invention is
illustrated. Fig. 1 is a vertical sectional view of a shackle
blank, showing it between the dies. Fig. 2 is a top or plan
view of a shackle blank, as the same is formed by the dies.
Similar letters of reference indicate like parts. The blank,
which is made in the shape of a cross, in the
usual manner, is placed upon the lower die

A, and the upper die B is then
forced down upon it, whereby the
arms a, a, of the blank are bent
into an oblique direction, and the body, b, is curved, as shown
in the figure. The portion of the blank where the arms join

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the body is rounded, as shown, on both the inside as well as on
the outside, the straightening of the body of the shackle pushing out sufficient material for forming the sharp corners, without having any hindersome and impracticable projections. The
dies are formed so as to give the blank the required shape.
This process of forming shackle blanks has proved, by practice,
to be the most expeditious and simple yet performed, as it requires the least amount of machinery, and forms each part of
the shackle with just the required amount and thickness of
metal for completing the article."
The claims, two in number, are these: "1. The carriage
shaft shackle blank, so formed between dies that the body b of
the blank is curved, substantially as herein shown and described.
2. The dies A and B, for making the said blank, when so constructed and arranged as to form the rounded corners and the
curved body of the said blank, substantially as herein shown
and. described."
The plaintiff, according to his description, takes a blank in
the form of a cross, and, by dies of proper shape, bends the
arms of the blank into an oblique direction, and the body into
a curved form, the result being, that the parts where the arms
join the body are rounded on the outside as well as the inside;
and when, subsequently, the curved body is straightened, there
will be in it sufficient metal to form sharp outside corners, by
being pushed out into them. The plaintiff's patent stops with
the curved blank shown in Fig. 1 of his drawings. That blank
is, in practice, afterwards formed, by other dies, into the following shape:

CLARK v. BEECHER MFG. COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

Putting the blank into that shape is what the specification
refers to when it speaks of "the straightening of the body,"
and "forming the sharp corners."
The defendants make shackle blanks by dies, under letters
patent No. 106,225, granted to Willis 13. Smith, August 9,
1870. Fig. 3 of that patent is a plan view of the blank which
the dies forge, and Fig. 4 is an end view of the blank. In

these figures, b, b, are the ears; d is the clip;f is the shaft ; g
is the body of the blank; It, A, are the corners at the junction
of the ears and the body; His the whole blank. The corners
1, 7, are formed at right angles to each other. The specification says, that the blank H is then placed in a trimming die,
and the surplus metal which projects from its edges is removed;
and that the blank is then heated, and the oblique portions of

the body, g, are bent, so as to throw the ears, b, b, upward, in
the form shown in Fig. 5, in which operation the corners, h, A,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

previously formed at right angles, remain unmolested, and are
square and full. The specification says: "I am aware that
dies for the same purpose have been previously used, as shown
in the patents to L. Burns, June 11, 1861, and J. B. Clark, June
25, 1867. In Burns' dies, the body of the shackle is formed
straight, while the ears are curved, the curve commencing
at the plane where the ears are to be bent to form the corners,
and, therefore, said corners are not right angled, neither is it
possible for curved ears to be both on one and the same line.
In Clark's dies, the ears are formed straight, but were arranged
on different lines, so that the edge of the blank at the side of
each ear was thrown out of a vertical line, which seriously interferes with trimming off the surplus metal. I make no claim to
either of the above or similar dies." Smith's patent claims the
blank so constructed and formed, and also the dies for forging it..
The Circuit Court was of the opinion, that, in straightening
the angularly bent back of the defendants' blank, to get it into
the shape of Fig. 5 of the Smith patent, surplus metal was not
pushed toward or into the corners to form them, but the existing corners were forced further apart, to the extent of one
fourth of an inch, by driving surplus metal into the back,
between the corners.
We are of opinion that this view is correct. Besides this,
the arms of the defendants' blank are not bent in an oblique
direction, its body is not curved, and the parts where the arms
join the body are not rounded, either on the inside or on the
outside. The defendants' blank, as in Fig. 4 of the Smith
patent, has abundance of material near the corners A,A,which
are to be sharp and square, and are already formed, while the
plaintiff's blank, by reason of its rounded corners, has a defioiency of material near the points where the square corners to
be formed are to be.
In the efforts to make, by dies, a shackle blank, which should
ultimately have sharp outside corners, the inventors, in succession, had the idea of a reservoir or surplus of metal. Thorp
had it in the downward projections. Burns had it in his sharp
lower corners with curved arms. The plaintiff had it in his

WOLLENSAK v. REIHER.
Opinion of the Court.

curved body and rounded corners. Smith has it in his shape.
But, in view of the state of the art, and the terms of his
patent, the plaintiff must be confined to a curved body, rounded
corners and oblique arms, or, at least, to a shape which, for
practical use, in subsequent manipulation, has a disposition of
metal, which causes a sharp corner to be formed in substantially the same way as by the use of his blank. The defendants' blank does not have such a shape.

WOLLENSAK v. REIhER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued April 14, 15, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

In view of the state of the art existing at the date of the patent granted to
John F. Wollensak for an improvement in transom lifters by original patent No. 136,801, dated March 11, 1873, and by reissued patent No. 9,307,
dated July 20, 1880, and the claims of that patent, it must be limited to a
combination, with a transom, its lifting arm and operating.rod, of a guide
for the upper end of the operating rod, prolonged beyond the junction with
the lifting arm, so as to prevent the operating-rod from being bent or displaced by the weight of the transom; and it is not infringed by the device
secured to Frank A. Reiher by patent No. 226,353, dated April 6, 1880.

This was a bill in equity to restrain infringements of a patent. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr.L. L Bond (Mr&. Epliraim Banning and Afr. Thoma8
A. Banning were with him) for appellant.
.l r. Clzarle. T. Brown submitted on his brief for appellee.
MAvrnEws delivered the opinion of the coiurt.
This bill in equity was filed by the appellant to restrain tho
alleged infringement by the defendant of re-issued letters
patent No. 9,307, dated July 20, 1880, the original patent, No.
MR. JusroE

