ARNSON v. MURPHY.
Syllabus.

manufactured into bone-black. A refusal by the court to direct
a verdict for the plaintiffs was excepted to, and it directed a
verdict for the defendant, which was also excepted to. After
such verdict and a judgment for the defendant, the plaintiffs
have brough a writ of error.
We are of opinion that the article was not free, nor liable to
a duty of 35 per cent. as a manufacture of bones, but that,
being bone-black, it was liable, as "black of bone," to the duty
imposed on it; and that it was proper to direct a verdict for
the defendant.
Objection was made to the admission of evidence to show
the difference in value between bone-black and crude bone;
and that between bone-black and white calcined bone-ash; and
that between bone-black before its use by sugar refiners and
after it was spent. We see no good objection to the evidence.
It went to show the character of the article in question.

Judgment fflrmed.

ARIISO1

& Another v. MURPHY, Collector.

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 19, 1M.-fDecided December 7,1885.

Where an action is brought, under section 3011 of the Revised Statutes, as
amended by section 1 of the act of February 27, 1877, ch. 69, 19 Stat.
247, to recover back an excess of duties paid under protest, the plaintiff
must, under section 2931 of the Revised Statutes, as a condition precedent
to his recovery, show not only due protest and appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury, but also that the action was brought within the time required
by the statute.
It is not necessary, under section 2931, that the decision of the Secretary on
the appeal should, in order to be operative, be communicated to the party
appealing.

The facts aie stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

gr. Iewis Sanders [-3r. George N. Sanders was with him
on the brief] for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.Solicitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE BLATcOUORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was commenced in May, 1879, in a State court of
New York, by Bernhard Arnson and Ellis Wilzinski, against
Thomas Murphy, and removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, to recover
moneys paid to the defendant, as collector of the port of New
York, between April 25, 1871, and November 30, 1871, as
duties on several importations of nitro-benzole. The defendant
set up, in his answer, that the moneys received were for lawful
duties, and also pleaded the six years' limitation of the New
York statute. The suit was tried, resulting in a verdict for the
defendant, by direction of the court, followed by a judgment,
to review which the plaintiffs sued out a writ of error, which
came before this court at October term, 1883, and the decision
on which is reported in 109 U. S. 238. It is there stated, that
there had been due protests and appeals to the Secretary of
the Treasury, but that no decision had been rendered by him
thereon prior to the commencement of this action, and that it
was not brought until after ninety days had elapsed from the
date of the latest appeal, and not until after the lapse of more
than six years from the expiration of that period. The Circuit
Court having sustained the bar by the New York statute, this
court reversed that ruling.
The cause of action arose while § 14 of the act of June
30, 1864, ch. 171, 13 Stat., 214, now embodied in Rev. Stat.
§ 2931, was in force, providing as follows: " On the entry of any
vessel, or of any goods, wares, or merchandise, the decision of
the collector of customs at the port of importation and entry,
as to the rate and amount of duties to be paid on the tonnage
of such vessel, or on such goods, wares, or merchandise, and
the dutiable c.,st and charges thereon, shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested therein, unless the owner,
master, commander, or consignee of such vesselin the case of

ARNSON v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

duties levied on tonnage, or the owner, importer, consignee, or
agent of the merchandise, in the case of duties levied on goods,
wares, or merchandise, or the costs and charges thereon, shall,
within ten days after the ascertainment and liquidation of the
duties by the proper officers of the customs, as well in cases of
merchandise entered in bond, as for consumption, give notice
in writing to the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied with his
decision, setting forth therein, distinctly and specifically, the
grounds of his objection thereto, and shall, within thirty days
after the date of such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal
therefrom to the Secretary of the Treasury, whose decision on
such appeal shall be final and conclusive; and such vessel,
goods, wares, or merchandise, or costs and charges, shall be
liable to duty accordingly, any Act of Congress to the contrary
notwithstanding, unless suit shall be brought within ninety
days after the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury on such
appeal for any duties which shall have been paid before the
date of such decision on such vessel, or on such goods, wares,
or merchandise, or costs or charges, or within ninety days after
the payment of duties paid after the decision of the Secretary.
And no suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery
of any duties alleged to have been erroneously or illegally exacted, until the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury shall
have been first had on such appeal, unless the decision of the
Secretary shall be delayed more than ninety days from the
date of such appeal in case of an entry at any port east of the
Rocky Mountains, or more than five months in case of an entry
west of those mountains." Section 2931 was in force when this
suit was brought.
Section 3011 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by § 1 of
the act of February 27, 1877, ch. 69, 19 Stat. 247, was also
in force when this suit was brought, reading as follows: "Any
person who shall have made payment under protest, and in
order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for him,
to any collector, or person acting as collector, of any money as
duties, when such amount of duties was not, or was not wholly,
authorized by law, may maintain an action in the nature of an
action at law, which shall be triable by jury, to ascertain the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

validity of such demand and payment of duties, and to recover
back any excess so paid. But no recovery shall be allowed
in such action unless a protest and appeal shall have been
taken as prescribed in section twenty-nine hundred and thirtyone."
In view of these provisions, it was held by this court, in this
case, that a suit against the collector was barred unless brought
within ninety days after an adverse decision by the Secretary
of the Treasury on an appeal; and that, while a suit might be
brought after the expiration of ninety days from the appeal,
in case there had not been a decision on the appeal, the claimant was not obliged to bring a suit until after such decision
had been made. It was further held, that the effect of the
legislation cited had been to convert the prior common-law
action into one based wholly on a statutory liability, and regulated, as to all its incidents, by express statutory provisions,
and, among them, "the conditions which fix the time when the
suit may begin, and prescribe the period at the end of which
the right to sue shall ceasoe;" and that the legislation of Congress on the subject was exclusive of State laws. As, therefore, it appeared that this suit had been brought in time, under
the act of Congress, -because it appeared that no decision had
been made on the appeals before this suit was brought, although more than seven years had elapsed, and the Circuit
Court had applied the New York statute as a bar, this court
reversed the judgment, and awarded a new trial. That trial
has been had, resulting in a verdict for the defendant by direction of the court, and a judgment accordingly, to review which
the plaintiffs have brought this writ of error.
The plaintiffs proved necessary preliminary matters and due
protests and appeals to the Secretary of the Treasury. The
latest of the appeals was taken November 29, 1871. The
plaintiffs rested their case without having given any evidence
as to whether there had or had not been any decision on any
of the appeals. The defendant then offered in evidence de.
cisions made by the Secretary on the appeals, one on July 12,
1871, and the rest on May 10, 1872, affirming the decisions of
the collector. The evidence consisted of certified copies from

ARNSON v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

the Treasury Department, of letters of the above dates, from
that Department to the collector of customs at New York,
which letters were recorded in the Department. It was conceded by the plaintiffs that those letters were the decisions of
the Secretary on the appeals in question, but the evidence was
objected to by them on these grounds: (1) That the defence
was not pleaded, it being one arising under a statute of limitation, and the object being to show that the suit was not brought
within ninety days after decisions on the appeals: (92)That it
did not appear that the decisions had been communicated to
the plaintiffs. The court, without then ruling on the admissibility of the evidence, held that the plaintiffs, in addition to
showing due protest and appeal, must, as a condition precedent
to recovery, show either that the suit had been brought within
ninety days after an adverse decision on the appeal, or that
there had been no such decision, and the suit had been brought
after the expiration of ninety days from the appeal. The
plaintiffs excepted to this ruling, and then called as a witness
one of the plaintiffs, and asked him if he had received any
notice, before the suit was brought, of the decisions of the Secretary on the appeals. On an objection by the defendant that
the evidence was immaterial, it was excluded, and the plaintiffs
excepted. The defendant then again offered the decisions in
evidence, and the plaintiffs objected on the grounds before
stated. The objection was overruled, the plaintiffs excepted,
and the papers were read in evidence. The court then directed
a verdict for the defendant, on the ground that, the action
being a statutory one, the plaintiffs had not complied with the
statutory conditions, and the plaintiffs excepted.
The statute makes the decision of the collector final and conclusive as to the rate and amount of duties, unless there is a
specific protest made to the collector within ten days after the
liquidation, and an appeal taken to the Secretary of the Treasury within thirty days after the liquidation. The decision of
the Secretary on the appeal is made final and conclusive, unless
a suit is brought within ninety days after such decision, in the
case of duties paid before the decision, or within ninety days
after the payment of duties paid after the decision; and no suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

can be brought before a decision on the appeal, unless the decision is delayed for the time specified in the statute.
We are of opinion that it is incumbent upon the importer to
show, in order to recover, that he has fully complied with the
statutory conditions which attach to the statutory action provided for. He must show not only due protest and appeal,
but also a decision on the appeal, and the bringing of a suit
within the time limited by the statute after the decision, or
else that there has been no decision, and the prescribed time
after the appeal has elapsed. The decision on the appeal is,
necessarily, a matter of record in the Treasury Department,
and, as is shown in the present case, it is communicated to the
collector by a letter to him, the letter itself being the decision.
The letter is a matter of record in the custom house. Inquiry
there or at the Treasury Department would always elicit information on the subject; and the importer, knowing when
his appeal was taken, can always protect himself by bringing
his suit after the expiration of the time named after the appeal,
although he has not heard of a decision, being thus certain that
he will have brought it within the time prescribed after a possible decision.
The conditions imposed by the statute cannot, any of them,
be regarded as matters a failure to comply with which must be
pleaded by the defendant as a statute of limitation. The right
of action does not exist independently of the statute, but is
conferred by it. There is no right of action on showing merely
the payment of the money as duties, and that the payment
was more than the law allowed, leaving any statute of limitation to be set up in defence, as in an ordinary suit. But the
statute sets out with declaring that the decision of the collector
shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested, unless certain things are done. The mere exaction of the duties
is, necessarily, the decision of the collector, and, on this being
shown in any suit, it stands as conclusive till the plaintiff shows
the proper steps to avoid it. These steps include not only protest and appeal, but the bringing of a suit within the time prescribed. They are all successively grouped together in one
section, not only in §.14 of the act of 1861, but in § 2931 of

ARNSON v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

the Revised Statutes; and the "suit" spoken of in those sections is the "action" given in Rev. Stat. § 3011.
The question involved is. analogous to the one presented in
Cb/eathant v. United States, 92 U. S. 85, which arose under
§ 19 of the act of July 13, 1866, ch. 184, 14 Stat. 152, in regard to internal revenue taxes. That section provided, that
no suit should be maintained in any court for the recovery of
any tax, until after an appeal to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue and his decision thereon, unless the suit should be
brought within six months from the decision, provided that, if
the decision should be delayed more than six months from the
date of the appeal, the suit might be brought within twelve
months from the date of the appeal. In that case, there was
an assessment of a tax, a proper appeal, a setting aside of the
assessment on appeal, a second assessment, less in amount, a
payment of the second assessment, and a suit to recover back
the money paid. But the suit was not brought within six
months from the appeal taken, and there was no appeal from the
second assessment. The court below having instructed the jury
that the statute imposed a condition without which the plaintiffs
could not recover, and was not merely a statute of limitation,
and that the plaintiffs had no right of action, this court affirmed
that ruling. It was urged that the requirement of bringing
a suit within six months from the decision was a statute of
limitation, and that the time under it could not begin to run
till the cause of action accrued, which was not till the money
was paid, and that time was, as to a larger part of the money,
within six months before the suit was brought; and that the
first appeal was the only one necessary to a right of action,
because the modified assessment was paid under protest. But
this court, while holding that an appeal from the second assessment was necessary to warrant a suit, also held, the opinion of
the court being delivered by Mr. Justice Miller, that, if the
appeal taken could be regarded as sufficient, the suit could not
'be maintained, because it was not brought within six months
after the decision on that appeal. The view taken was, that
the government had, by statute, as to both the customs and
the internal revenue departments, prescribed the conditions on

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

which it would subject itself to the judgments of the courts in
the collection of its revenues; and that the prescription of a
time within which a suit must be brought for the purpose, is a
condition on which alone the government consents to litigate
the lawfulness of the original tax.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court properly
held that it was incumbent on the plaintiffs, as a condition
precedent to their recovery, to show not only due protests and
appeals, but that the action was brought within the time required by the statute. This they failed to show, and it was
proper to direct a verdict for the defendant.
In regard to the point taken, that, when the defendant introduced in evidence the decisions on the appeals, he did not
show that they had been communicated to the plaintiffs,
although this case is disposed of on the failure of the plaintiffs
to make the proof necessary to recover, it is proper to say, as
the question has been argued, that we see nothing in the
statute which requires that the decision on the appeal shall be
communicated to the claimant by any action of the officers of
the government. All that the statute requires is that the Secretary shall make the decision. It is to be made in the usual
way in which the decisions of the department are made. If,
in any case, it should appear that, on due inquiry of the proper
officers, a party had been misled to his prejudice, in regard to
a decision on an appeal, a different question would be presented
from any now before us.
We find no error in the record and the judgment is

Afflrmed.

