THE CHARLES MORGAN.
Syllabus.

made his office the tribunal whose decision on that subject was
to be controlling. And he was to transmit a list of such lands
to the Governor of the State, and at the latter's request issue
a patent therefor to the State. In that case parol evidence, to
show that the land covered by a patent to Missouri under the
act was not swamp and overflowed land, was held to be
inadmissible. On the same principle parol testimony to show
that the land covered by a patent of the United States to a
settler under the pre-emption laws was such swamp and overflowed land must be held to be inadmissible to defeat the patent. It is the duty of the Land Department, of which the
Secretary is the head, to determine whether land patented
to a settler is of the class subject to settlement under the preemption laws, and his judgment as to this fact is not open to
contestation in an action at law by a mere intruder without title.
As was said in the case cited of the patent to the State, it may
be said in this case of the patent to the pre-emptioner, it would
be a departure from sound principle and contrary to well-considered judgments of this court to permit, in such action, the
validity of the patent to be subjected to the test of the verdict
of a jury on oral testimony. "It would be," to quote the language used, "substituting the jury, or the court sitting as a
jury, for the tribunal which Congress had provided to determine the question, and would be making a patent of the
United States a cheap and unstable reliance as a title for lands
which it purported to convey." The judgment is, therefore,
.Afirned.

TEE CHARLES MORGAN.
APPEAL

FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 24, 1895.-Decided May 4, 1S5.

In case of collision on the Mississippi, if the facts show that the injured vessel
made the first signal, and that it was responded to by the offending vessel,
and that no question was made below as to its being made within the time

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
required by the Rules of the Board of Supervising Inspectors, it will be
presumed to have been made at the proper distance, in compliance with the
Rules.
The Circuit Court, in an appeal from a decree of a District Court in admiralty,
may in its discretion permit amendments to the libel, enlarging the claims,
and including claims rejected below as not specified in the pleadings.
17w Lucille, 19 Wall. 73, affirmed and applied.
Vie North Carolina, 15 Pet. 40, distinguished.
The finding of the board of local inspectors, and the documents connected
therewith are not admissible in a collision suit in admiralty for the purpose of showing that the offending vessel was in her proper position in the
river, and had proper watches and lights set at the time of the collision.
When depositions of witnesses, made in another suit, are offered for the purpose of impeaching their evidence, and are admitted, and exception is
taken thereto, and the bill of exceptions shows that "in the cross-examination of each of said witnesses the attention of the witness was called
to the evidence" given by him in [the other case] and the said witnesses
were specifically examined as to the correctness of said evidence, and that
"at the offering, no objection was made that the evidence offered was not
the evidence of said witnesses respectively, or that the same had been imperfectly taken and reported," but the cross-examination is not incorporated into the bill of exceptions ; it will be presumed that ample foundation
was laid for the introduction of the evidence.
Although the general rule is that when contradictory declarations of a witness
made at another time in writing are to be used for purposes of impeachment, questions as to the contents of the instrument without its production
are ordinarily inadmissible : yet the law only requires that the memory of
the witness shall be so refreshed as to enable him to explain if he desires
to do so, and it is for the court to determine whether this has been done,
before the impeaching evidence is admitted.

This was a collision case in admiralty.
in the opinion of the court.
31Yr. . A. Lincoln [3fr. R.
appellants. '

The facts are stated

. 2 arr also fied a brief] for

-Up'. Richard H. Browne [_lfr. CharlesB. Singleton was with
him] for appeflees.
MiR. CQrEF JusTicE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in admiralty, brought by the owners of the
steamboat "Cotton Valley," to recover for the loss of their
boat, and certain articles of personal property belonging to
Martin H. Koun alone, in a collision on the Mississippi River

THE CHARLES MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

with the steamboat "Charles Morgan." In the original libel
filed in the District Court, claim was made only for the value

of the boat, and for an itemized account for clothes, jewelry,
furniture, etc., of the libellant Kouns. The District Court found
the Morgan in fault, and referred the cause to a commissioner

to take testimony and report the damages. The commissioner
reported that the libellants were entitled to recover the value
of the boat, and also the value of stores and supplies, $1,376.'16, and -500 cash in the safe of the boat, and belonging to
her, lost at the time of the collision; he also reported that
Martin H. Kouns, one of the libellants, should recover the
value of a lady's gold watch, $150; of a gentleman's gold
watch, $120, and $75 cash lost. The claimant of the Morgan
excepted to the allowance for stores and supplies, and for cash
in the boat's safe, on the ground that they had not been sued
for. The District Court sustained this exception, and gave a
decree only for the value of the boat and the allowances by the
commissioner to Kouns. From this decree both parties appealed to the Circuit Court. When the case got into the Circuit Court leave was granted the libellants to file a supplemental and amended libel setting up their claim for stores,
supplies, and cash, proved before the commissioner in the District Court, but rejected by that court because not included in
the original libel.
Upon the hearing in the Circuit Court that court found,
among other things, that at the time of the collision the Cotton Valley, bound for Red River, was the ascending boat, and
the Charles Morgan, bound for New Orleans, the descending
boat; that the collision occurred near Bringier's Point, about
three miles below Donaldsonville; that both boats were
properly officered and manned, and bad proper watches and
proper lights set.
"Third. That prior to the collision the Cotton Valley was
in her proper position in the river near the left bank, following
up the Bringier Point preparatory to rounding the same, while
the Charles Morgan was above the point, perhaps in the
middle of the river, but heading across and near the point to
a wood-yard light, in the bend of the river below the point.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"Fourth. That when the respective boats were in the positions just described, the Cotton Valley blew one whistle as a
signal that she would pass the Charles Morgan to the right,
which signal the Charles Morgan answered with one whistle,
as a signal that the pilot of the Morgan understood, and would
also pass to the right.
"Fifth. Both boats kept on their respective courses, approaching each other, when the pilot of the Morgan sounded
three or four short whistles, stopped the Morgan's engines, and
soon commenced backing the wheels, but not enough to stop
the Morgan's headway, and without in any wise changing her
course to starboard or port.
"Meanwhile, the Cotton Valley, rounding the point, at the
three or four short whistles given by the Morgan, understanding the signal as a hail, stopped the engines.
"At this time the boats were within one hundred yards of
each other, the Morgan, with her headway and the current,
coming straight on without changing her course, the pilot of
the Cotton Valley, foreseeing an inevitable collision if he remained still, started the Cotton Valley ahead, sheering to starboard; but this forwarding of the Cotton Valley was too late,
for almost immediately the Charles Morgan, head on, struck
her on the port side, about twenty-five feet forward of the
stern, and at an angle of about sixty degrees, with such force
as to cut through her guards into her hull nearly to the kelson,
and cause her to sink in about ten minutes.
"Sixth. That the Charles Morgan and her officers were in
fault, as the proper position of the boat was nearer the middle
of the river, and as her officers disregarded the passing signal
given and answered, and made no effort to change the boat's
course to the starboard, by which the boats would have been
so separated that a collision would have been avoided.
"Seventh. That the Cotton Valley was not in fault, as she
was in her proper place as the ascending boat, and as she gave
the proper signal for passing.
"The failure of the pilot to understand the signal of three
or four short whistles given by the Morgan was not, under the
circumstances of the case, a fault; and if the starting of the

THE CHARLES MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Cotton Valley's engines and sheering to starboard when the
Morgan was upon them was an error, it was an error of judgment in extremis, not putting the boat in fault."
Upon these facts a decree was rendered against the Morgan
and her owners and stipulators for the value o'f the Cotton
Valley, and for the value of the personal property belonging
to Kouns, the same as in the District Court, and also for the
value of the stores, supplies, etc., set forth in the supplemental
libel, .$,376.16. From that decree this appeal was taken.
The record contains a bill of exceptions, which shows that in
the progress of the trial in the Circuit Court the defendants
offered in evidence a certified copy of "the finding of the
board of local inspectors of steam vessels, New Orleans, December 18, 1878, being their .decision in the case of the collision
between the steamers Cotton Valley and the Charles Morgan,
and signed by C. B. Johnson and J. A. Moffat, United States
Local Inspectors." They also offered certain other documents
connected with that proceeding, including an appeal to the
District Inspectors and their decision thereon. To the introduction of this evidence the libellants objected, and their objection was sustained. To this ruling the claimant of the
Morgan excepted, and the exception was made part of the
record.
It is also shown by another bill of exceptions in the record,
that, after the depositions of Albert Stein, Harry W. Stein,
Sylvester Doss, John B. Evelyn, and Livingston McGeary had
been read on behalf of the claimant of the Morgan, the libellants, for the purpose of impeaching and contradicting their
evidence, offered certain depositions of the same witnesses used
on the trial of certain other suits, growing out of the same
collision, between one Menge and some insurance companies,
to which the claimant was not a party. To the introduction
of this evidence the claimant objected, on the ground that no
basis for offering said purported depositions had been laid, it
not having been shown or pretended that said purported depositions were ever submitted to the said witnesses, or otherwise
verified as their evidence in said causes; but as, "in the crossexamination of each of said witnesses in this case, the atten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the witness was called to the evidence given by him in
the cases of .3fenge v. Insurance Companies,
. .
and the
witnesses were specifically examined as to the correctness of
said evidence, and admitted having testified therein," and "no
objection was made that the evidence offered was not the evidence of said witnesses respectively, or that the same had been
imperfectly taken or reported," the depositions were admitted
for the purpose for which they were offered. The cross-examination referred to is not set forth in the bill of exceptions. To
the admission of this evidence the claimant excepted.
The following positions are taken by the appellants:
1. That the findings of fact are not sufficient to support the
decree.
2. That leave to file the supplemental and amended libel
should not have been granted, and consequently that the decree
should not have included the value of the stores, supplies and
money belonging to the Cotton Valley, which were lost.
3. That the record of the proceedings and findings of the
board of local inspectors, and the documents connected therewith, were improperly excluded as evidence; and
4. That the depositions taken in the Menge cases were improperly admitted.
1. The objection to the sufficiency of the findings is based on
Rule 2 of the Board of Supervising Inspectors of Steam Yes.
sels, which is as follows:
"Should steamers be likely to pass near each other and these
signals should not be made and answered by the time such
boats shall have arrived at a distance of 800 yards from each
other, the engines of both boats shall be stopped; or should the
signal be given and not properly understood, from any cause
whatever, both boats shall be backed until their headway shall
be fully checked, and the engines shall not be again started
ahead until the proper signals are made, answered and understood. Doubts or fears of misunderstanding signals shall be
expressed by several short sounds of the whistle in quick succession."
The particular specifications of insufficiency are:
1. That it does not appear that the signals for passing had

THE CHARLES MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

been made and answered before the boats came within eight
hundred yards of each other; and, 2, that the failure of the
Cotton Valley to understand the signal of doubt or fear made
by the Morgan was a fault on her part.
There is no complaint in the pleadings as to the time when
the Cotton Valley made the first signal, and neither party at
the hearing below seems to have considered that an important
fact in the case. So long as it was made and assented to by the
Morgan without any signal of misunderstanding, it will be presumed to have been at the proper distance, as nothing appears
to the contrary. The findings show affirmatively that it was
understood and assented to by the Morgan.
As the "several short sounds of the whistle" were only to
be given in case of doubt or fear of a misunderstanding of signals, it was not necessarily a fault in the Cotton Valley to misinterpret their meaning when made by the Morgan, so short a
time after her assent had been given to the signal of the Cotton Valley to pass to the right.
2. Admiralty IRule 24 provides that in all informations and,
libels, in causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, "new
counts may be filed, and amendments, in matters of substance,
may be made, upon motion, at any time before the final decree, upon such terms as the court shall impose." 3 How. xiv.
In Tw Lueffle, 19 Wall. 73, 74, it was decided that an appeal
in admiralty from the District to the Circuit Court "has the
effect to supersede and vacate the decree from which it was
taken. A new trial, completely and entirely new, with other
testimony and other pleadings, if necessary, or, if asked for, is
contemplated-a trial in which the judgment of the court below is regarded as though it had never been rendered. A new
decree is to be made in the Circuit Court." Clearly, under
this decision, after an appeal is taken, and the decree of the
District Court vacated, a motion to amend, made while the
case is pending in the Circuit Court for a new trial on its
merits, will be before the final decree; and, under the operation of the rule, we have no doubt the Circuit Court may, in its
discretion, permit an amendment of the libel, so as to include a
claim for damages growing out of the original cause of action

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and litigated in the court below, but rejected because not specified in the pleadings. It is true, that in the case of Tute -North.
Carolina,15 Pet. 40, 50, it was decided that a libel could not
be amended after an appeal, so as to bring ina new claim for
damages; but this was before the adoption of the admiralty
rules, the decision having been made in 1841, and the rules not
taking effect until September 1, 1845. 3 How. xix. The act
authorizing the rules was passed August 23, 1842, ch. 188, ยง 6,
5 Stat. 518, and it is quite possible iRule 24 was suggested by
that case. It has long been the practice of the Circuit Court
to allow such amendments. Weaver v. Thomson, 1 Wall. Jr.,
C. C. 343, decided in 1849 in the Third Circuit; lamb v. Parkman, 21 Law Rep. 589, First Circuit, in 1858; The C. if. Foster,
1 Fed. Rep. 733, same Circuit; The .ZorningStar, 14 Fed. IRep.
866, Seventh Circuit; The Oder, 21 .Blatchford, 26, Second Circuit; Phenix Ins. Co. v. Liverpool & Great TFestern,Steamslip
Co., 22 B3latchford, 372, same Circuit. In Lamb v. Parkmdn,
suPra,Mr. Justice Curtis, then holding the Circuit Court, said:
"The twenty-fourth rule, made by the Supreme Court to reguJat the practice of the instance courts of admiralty, applies to
this as well as to the District Court. Pursuant to it, amendments in matters of substance may be made on motion, at any
time before the final decree, upon such terms as the court shall
impose. What amendments shall be allowed, under what circumstances and supported by what proofs they must be applied for, and in what form they must be incorporated into the
record, are left to the sound discretion of the court, to be exercised in each case, or to be regulated by written rules of practice, so far as the court may find it useful to frame such rules."
In some of the circuits, rules upon the subject have been
adopted. The Second Circuit is among them. In the case of
Lamb v. Parkman,Mr. Justice Curtis, after saying that there
were no written rules in his circuit, proceeded to state what,
from the course of decisions in similar or analogous cases,
would, in his opinion, be proper guides to the exercise of the
discretion of the court. If proper care is taken to avoid surprise, and to confine amendments in the appellate court to the
original subject of controversy, so as not to allow matters out-

THE CHARLES MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

side of the general scope of the pleadings below to be brought
in, it is difficult to see how any possible harm can come from
permitting a libellant to amend his libel in such a way as to
give him the full benefit of his suit as it has been begun.
3. The finding of the board of local inspectors, and the documents connected therewith, were properly excluded. The proceeding in which the finding was made was instituted under
Ilev. Stat. ยง 4450, for an investigation of the facts connected
with the collision, so far as they had a bearing on the conduct
of the licensed officers on board the boats, and at most it only
showed the opinion of the board upon the subject from the
evidence adduced before them. It was offered, to use the language of counsel, "as tending to affect the evidence offered by
the libellants to show that the Cotton Valley was in her proper
position in the river, and had proper watches and lights set at
the time of the collision." Clearly it was not admissible for
any such purpose.
4. The specific objection to the depositions in the Menge
cases that were offered for the purpose of impeachment, is that
they were not exhibited to the witnesses whose testimony was
to be impeached upon their cross-examination, or otherwise
verified, as the evidence of the witnesses in the former causes.
The rule is, that the contradictory declarations of a witness,
whether oral or in writing, made at another time, cannot be
used for the purpose of impeachment until the witness has been
examined upon the subject, and his attention particularly directed to the circumstances in such a way as to give him full
opportunity for explanation or exculpation, if he desires to
make it. Co.wwad v. Gr~fey, 16 How. 38, 46. If the contradictory declaration is in writing, questions as to its contents,
without the production of the instrument itself, are ordinarily
inadmissible, and a cross-examination for the purpose of laying
the foundation of its use as impeachment would not, except
under special circumstances, be allowed until the paper was
produced and shown to the witness while under examination.
Circumstances may arise, however, which will excuse its production. All the law requires is, that the memory of the witness shall be so refreshed by the necessary inquiries as to enable

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

him to explain, if he can and desires to do so. Whether this
has been done is for the court to determine before the impeaching evidence is admitted. Here the cross examination, on which
the right to use the depositions depended, has not been put into
the record, but the bill of exceptions shows "1that, in the crossexamination of each of said witnesses, the attention of the witness was called to the evidence given by him in the cases of
and the said witnesses were specifically exMenge, . .
amined as to the correctness of said evidence, and admitted
having testified therein." From this, and the failure to incorporate the cross-examination into the bill of exceptions, we
must presume that ample foundation was laid for the introduction of the evidence, unless the failure to show the depositions
to the witnesses at the time of their cross-examination was
necessarily and under all circumstances fatal. The objection
is not to the cross-examination as to the contents of the depositions without their production, but to the admission of the
depositions after a cross-examination which was, as we must
presume, properly conducted in their absence. It is also stated
in the bill of exceptions that, "at the offering, no objection was
made that the evidence offered was not the evidence of said
witnesses respectively, or that the same had been imperfectly
taken or reported." This shows that the depositions must
have been sufficiently identified as the evidence of the witnesses
in the former cases.
In the case, as it comes to us, we find no error.
The decree of the Circuit Court i3 affi'med and intereet allowed.

