STEWART v. DUNHAM.
Statement of Facts.

187; Hancock v. HTolbrook, 112 U. S. 229; r'ayerv. ife .Asdociation, 112 U. S. 717; Nf. . Cent. Railroad Co. v. Aills,
113 U. S. 249; S8ully v. -Drennan,113 U. S. 287; Iouiiville
& 31ashvillee Railroad Co. v. Ide, 114 U. S. 52; St. ouis & San,
Francisco Rail'oad Co. v. Trilson, 114 U. S. 60; Putnam v.
Ingraham, 114 U. S. 57; Pirnev. Tvedt, ante, 41.
The decree of the Circuit Oourt is reversed, and the case
remanded to that court, with a direction to remand it to
the State court, for want of jurisdiction, with costs to
Crump against Thurber, in the Circuit Court.

STEWART & Others v. DUNHA2M & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U.KITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

Submitted April 20, 1885--Decided May 4,1885.

When a creditor's bill in equity is properly removed from a State court to a
Circuit Court of the United States on the ground that the controversy is
wholly between citizens of different States, the jurisdiction of the latter
court is not ousted by admitting in the Circuit Court as co-plaintiffs other
creditors who are citizens of the same State as the defendants.
On appeal by defendants from a decree of a Circuit Court on a creditor's bill,
in which the judgments are several, for the payment of amounts adjudged
to creditors s6verally, this court has jurisdiction only over such as appeal
from a decree for payment to a creditor of a sum, exceeding the sum or
value of $5,000. As to all others the appeal must be dismissed.
In the absence of fraud a transfer by a debtor in Mississippi of all his property to one of his creditors in satisfaction of the debt is valid ; nor is it invalidated if, before it was made, the same property had been transferred by
the debtor to a trustee to secure the same debt in like good faith, by an instrument which was void under the statutes of Mississippi, by reason of its
form and contents, and if the said trustee joins in the transfer by the debtor.
The facts in this case do not establish the charge that the sale of the property
to the creditor was made with a purpose to hinder or defraud creditors.

This was a bill in equity by creditors to reach property of
the debtor alleged to have been fraudulently transferred, as
against the creditors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
XI.

T. C. Catching8 for appellants.

.Mr. Joh nF.
Hanna and Xr. James X. Johnston for appellees.
MR.JusTio MATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees who composed the firms of Dunham, Buckley
& Co., who were citizens of New York, and of Edwin Bates &
Co., who were citizens of New York and South Carolina, filed
their bill in equity, on July 14, 1881, in the Chancery Court of
Jefferson County, Mississippi, against John W. Broughton, and
Andrew Stewart, Andrew D. Gwynne, and P. H. Haley, composing the firm of Stewart Bros. & Co., and others, all of whom
were citizens either of Mississippi or of Louisiana.
On September 16, 1881, the complainants filed a petition for
the removal of the cause from the State court to the Circuit
Court of the United States for that district, on the ground of
citizenship, the amount in controversy being in excess of $500
in value, and presented a bond in conformity with the provisions of law. This was denied, notwithstanding which a
certified transcript of the proceedings in the cause was filed in
the Circuit Court on November 3, 1881, and that court proceeded thereon to final decree.
The complainants in the bill were creditors severally of
Broughton, and its object and prayer were to set aside a conveyance of a stock of merchandise, made by him to the defendants Stewart Bros. & Co., alleged to be fraudulent as against
his creditors, and was filed on behalf of the complainants and
all other creditors who might come in and share the costs of
the litigation.
After the cause was removed into the Circuit Court, the bill
-was amended by permitting Sigmond Katz, Jacob Katz,
Nathaniel Barnett, and Selvia Barnett, partners as Katz &
Barnett, and John I. Adams and W. H. Renaud, composing the
firm of John I. Adams & Co., creditors respectively of Broughton,
to become co-complainants. The members of the firm of Katz
& Barnett are described as "resident citizens of and doing
business in the City of New Orleans, State of Louisiana, and in
the City of New York, State of New York." The citizenship

STEWART v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

of those who constitute the firm of John I. Adams & Co. does
not appear.
On final hearing, on November 25, 1882, a decree was rendered in favor of the complainants, finding that the transfer
and conveyance of his property by Broughton to Stewart Bros.
& Co., described in the pleadings, was made with the intent to
hinder, delay and defraud the complainants and other creditors
of Broughton, with the knowledge and connivance of Stewart
Bros. & Co., and the same was thereby cancelled, set aside, and
declared to be null and void. The decree proceeds as follows:
"It appears to the court that complainants, at and before the
making of said pretended transfer and conveyance, were, and
still are, creditors of the said John W. Broughton, and that the
amount due each of them respectively, including interest to
this date, is as follows: Dunham, Buckley & Co., ten thousand
dollars ($10,222.50); Edwin
two hundred and twenty-two
Bates & Co., four thousand three hundred and ninty-one Il
dollars ($4,391.08); John I. Adams & Co., seven hundred and
dollars (8706.37) and Katz & Barnett, nine hundred and
six
thirty
dollars ($930.82). Total, sixteen thousand two
hundred and fifty -j. dollars ($16,250.77). It appears to the
court that the defendant John W. Broughton is insolvent, and
without property or means, and that the defendants Stewart
Bros. & Co. had in their hands and possession, at the time of
filing the bill of complaint in this cause, and still have, property, assets, and money, being the same fraudulently transferred
and conveyed to them by the defendant John W. Broughton,
as aforesaid, and the proceeds of the same, amounting to a sum
largely in excess of the said sum of $16,250.77, due complainants as aforesaid. It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the defendants, John W. Broughton and Andrew
Stewart, Andrew D. Gwynne, and P. H. Haley, composing the
firm of Stewart Bros. & Co., do pay to the complainants the
above-mentioned sums respectively due them, with interest
thereon at the rate of six (6) per cent. per annum from this date
until paid, that is to say: To Dunham, Buckley & Co., ten
dollars ($10,222.50);
thousand two hundred and twenty-two
to Edwin Bates & Co., four thousand three hundred and ninety.%-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

one o%5 dollars ($4,391.08) ; to Katz and Barnett, nine hundred
and thirty

--u%
dollars

($930.82) ; and to John L Adams & Co.,

dollars ($706.37); for which amounts
seven hundred and six
and costs executions in favor of said creditors respectively may
issue as at law." The appeal is from this decree.
The appellants assign as error, that the court proceeded to
decree, after admitting Katz and Barnett and John I. Adams
& Co. as co-complainants, alleging, that, as the case then stood,
it was without jurisdiction, as the controversy did not appear
to be wholly between citizens of different States. This, of
course, could have furnished no objection to the removal of the
cause from the State court, because at the time these parties
had not been admitted to the cause; and their introduction
afterwards as co-complainants did not oust the jurisdiction of
the court, already lawfully acquired, as between the original
parties. The right of the court to proceed to decree between
the appellants and the new parties did not depend upon difference of citizenship; because, the bill having been filed by the
original complainants on behalf of themselves and all other
creditors choosing to come in and share the expenses of the
litigation, the court, in exercising jurisdiction between the parties, could incidentally decree in favor of all other creditors
coming in.under the bill. Such a proceeding would be ancillary to the jurisdiction acquired between the original parties,
and it would be merely a matter of form whether the new parties should* come in as co-complainants, or before a master,
under a decree ordering a reference to prove the claims of all
persons entitled to the benefit of the decree. If the latter
course had been adopted, no question of jurisdiction could have
arisen. The adoption of the alternative is, in substance, the
same thing.
It is, however, objected by the appellees, Edwin Bates &
Co., Katz & Barnett, and John I. Adams & Co., that, as to
them respectively, this court has no jurisdiction of the appeal,
for the reason that the"decrees in their favor are several, and
that the amounts adjudged to be paid to them respectively do
not exceed the sum or value of $5,000.
On the authority of Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall., 208; Achwed
.f

STEWART v. DUINHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

V. ,4n;th, 106 U. S. 18S: Farmers' loan and Trust Co. v.
IFatelvman, 106 U. S. 265; Adamns v. 6-'ittenden, 106 U. S.
576; HawleuY v. Fa,'bank7s,108 U. S. 543; and Fourth Nfational
B~ank v. Stout, 113 U. S. 684, the motion to dismiss the appeal

as to all the appellees, except Dunham, Buckley & Co., must
be granted.
As to the remaining appellees, the cause must be disposed of
on the merits. An outline of the transactions involved in the
controversy is as follows: Broughton carried on business as a
merchant in Rodney, Mississippi, and became indebted, by
reason of advances made on account of cotton purchases, to
the appellants, Stewart Bros. & Co., merchants in New Orleans,
in about the sum of $34,000. Being pressed for payment on
May 26, 1881, he gave his two promissory notes therefor, payable one in six, the other in eight, months after date, with
interest at the rate of eight per cent. per annum ; and, to secure
the payment of the same, a written instrument of that date was
executed, by which Broughton conveyed to 0. J. Pintard all
his stock of merchandise and assets and property, in trust, in
case he should make default in the payment of the principal or
interest of the notes, to sell the property conveyed, at public
auction, for cash, to the highest bidder, at the request of the
holder of the notes, on twenty days' notice. The instrument
also contained the following provisions: "It is understood and
agreed between the parties hereto, that the said party of the
first part shall have the right to carry on the business as heretofore, for the purpose of selling off the stock of goods and
collecting in the notes and accounts due and to become due,
and, in order to enable said party of the first part to carry on
said business, the said parties of the third part hereby agree to
advance to him the further sum of one thousand dollars, which
last amount is also understood and agreed to be included in and
covered by this deed in trust, and to be due and payable six
months after this date, the maturity of the first note." This
paper, executed by all the parties, was recorded on May 27,
1881.

On June 13,1881, having been advised that this conveyance
was probably ineffectual and void as to other creditors, by reaVOL. CXV-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

son of its form and contents, Broughton and Pintard, the
trustee, united in a conveyance of the same property unconditionally to Stewart Bros. & .Co., in satisfaction of the debt
represented by the notes, and the latter took possession of the
property conveyed; and on the same day Broughton executed
also a bill of sale, for the same property, upon the same consideration, to Stewart Bros. & Co.
It is contended by the appellees that these conveyances, the
last as well as the first, are fraudulent against creditors,
per se, and void on their face; and such was the ground of the
decree appealed from, as stated in the opinion of the court.
To this we cannot accede. Assuming that the conveyance to
Pintard, in trust, was of that character, according to the law
of IMississippi, it does not follow that the subsequent sale and
transfer, followed by delivery of possession, is tainted by the
vice of the original transaction. The objection we are considering assumes that the whole transaction, from the beginning,
was free from actual and intended fraud, and was meant to be
a mode of securing and paying an actual debt, in good faith,
without any design injurious to other creditors, beyond that
implied in obtaining a preference, which is not forbidden by
law. In this view, the admission that the conveyance to Pintard was illegal does not affect the subsequent sale, which, on
,the contrary, being free from objection, on account of its own
inature and form, served to remedy the defects in the original
security. It was quite competent for the parties to rescind
-and cancel the first conveyance, and unite in the execution of
another, free from objection. This is all they did.
It is further urged, however, that the sale to Stewart Bros.
& Co., however formally correct, and technically legal on its
face, was made in pursuance of a design, participated in by
both parties, actually to hinder, delay and defraud the creditors
of Broughton. On this point we have examined and weighed
the evidence with attention and care, and are of opinion that
it does not sufficiently establish the case of the appellees. It
would not be profitable to rehearse the testimony, and point
out the facts and circumstances relied on, on the one hand, to
establish the fraud charged, and those, on the other, adduced

EHRIIARDT v. HOGABOOM.
Opinion of the Court.
to rebut the suspicions of dishonest and unlawful combination
to defeat the claims of honest creditors. It is sufficient, we
think, to say, that the proof falls short of that which the law
requires to establish so grave a charge.
It follows, that
Thle decree in favor of 7ames H. -Dunham,William T.. Bucicy, and Charles H. I'ebb, partners as Dunham., Buckley
& Co., must be reversed and the cause remanded,with directions to dismiss the bill as to them ; and it is so ordered.
As to all the other appellees, the appeal is dismissed.

E1RRITARDT v. HOGA300M.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted April 22, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

In an action of ejectment for lands in California, where the plaintiff
traces title to the lands from a patent of the United States issued to a settler
under the pre-emption laws, oral evidence is inadmissible on the part of
the defendant to show that the lands were not open to settlement under
tho~o laws, but were swamp and overflowed lands, which passed to the
State under the act of September 28, 1850.
It is the duty of the Land Department, of which the Secretary of the Interior is the head, to determine whether land patented to a settler is of
the class subject to settlement under the pre-emption laws, and his judgment as to this fact is not open to contestation, in an action at law, by a
mere intruder without title.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.21r.J H. .. cune for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.

M . TUsTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for the possession of a tract of land in
Sacramento County, California, designated as the northeast

