PULLMAN CAR CO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC CO. 687
Statement of Facts.

PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY v. MISSOURI
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF M1ISSOURI.
Argued November 6, 9, 1885.-Decided December 7, 1885.

The consolidation of two or more railroad companies in Missouri, under authority derived from Rev. Stat. Missouri 1879, § 789, works a dissolution
of the old corporations and the creation of a new corporation to take their
place, subject to the then existing obligations of the old companies.
An agreement made by one of such companies before the consolidation, to be
carried out over its entire line of railway, and on all roads which it then
controlled or might thereafter control by ownership, lease, or otherwise,
does not affect roads not so owned, leased or acquired at the time of the
consolidation, but acquired by the new company subsequently to it.
An agreement by a railway company to haul cars over all roads which it controis or may control by ownership, lease or otherwise, does not oblige it to
haul cars over the connecting road of another company in whose stock it
acquires, subsequently to the agreement, a controlling interest, if the other
company maintains its corporate organization, and its directors retain the
control of its road.

This was a suit in equity brought by Pullman's Palace Car
Company to enjoin the iissouri Pacific Railway Company
and the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company from discontinuing the use of the drawing-room cars and
sleeping cars of the Pullman Company on the line of the St.
Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Company; from refusing
to haul such cars on passenger trains running on such line;
and from contracting with any other person for supplying like
cars for that use. The court below dismissed the bill on demurrer, and from a decree to that effect this appeal was taken.
The case made by the bill was in substance this:
On the 8th of March, 187, the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company was a Missouri corporation owning and operating a
railroad between St. Louis and Kansas City, and Pullman's
Palace Car Company, an Illinois corporation, engaged in the
business of manufacturing drawing-room cars and sleeping
cars, and hiring them to, or otherwise arranging with, railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

companies for their use upon railroads under written contracts
for a term of years. By a written contract entered into on
that day the Pullman Company agreed to furnish the Missouri
Pacific Company, for fifteen years, upon certain specified
terms, with drawing-room and sleeping cars sufficient to meet
all the requirements of travel, and the Missouri Pacific Company agreed "to haul the same on the passenger trains on its
own line of road, and on all roads which it now controls, or
may hereafter control, by ownership, lease, or otherwise."
The railway company also agreed that the Pullman Company
"shall have the exclusive right, for a term of fifteen years
from the date,

to furnish for the use of the railway

company drawing-room or parlor and sleeping cars on all the
passenger trains of the railway company, and over its entire
line of railway, and on all roads which it controls, or may hereafter control, by ownership, lease, or otherwise,
.
and
that it will not contract with any other party to run said class
of cars on and over said lines of road during said period of
fifteen years."
Some time during the summer or autumn of 1880, and as
early as October 7th, the Missouri Pacific Company "consoliated with itself certain other companies, under the laws of
Missouri, retaining its former name; and

.

.

.

said con-

solidated company assumed all the obligations of the separate
consolidating companies, and continued to use and operate the
former road, together with other consolidated lines."
The St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company was, and for many years had been, a corporation owning
and operating a railroad from St. Louis, in a southwesterly
direction, to Texarkana. On the 20th of November, 1871, that
company entered into a contract with the Pullman Company,
similar to the one with the Missouri Pacific Company, for the
hauling of the Pullman cars on its line until November 20,
1881.
In or about the month of December, 1880, the Missouri
Pacific Company "acquired and lecame the owner of more
than a majority of the stock of said St. Louis, Iron Mountain
and Southern Railway Company," and this, as the bill alleges,

PULLMAN CAR CO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC CO. 589
Statement of Facts.

was done " with the intent and purpose of controlling the management and administration of the said St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company, and for the purpose of
subordinating, in effect, the said St. Louis, lron Mountain .and
Southern Railway Company and the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company to the same management and control, and of running and operating said roads as one line, and in the interest of
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company."
Since that time the Missouri Pacific Company had acquired
all but about 1195 of the 220,682 shares of the capital stock of
the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Company. Five
of the directors of the Missouri Pacific were also directors in
the St. Louis, Iron Motntain and Southern Company, and the
two roads were operated under the same general management.
The general offices of the two companies were kept together,
and both roads were managed substantially by the same persons. All this was brought about and done, as was alleged, in
pursuance of an arrangement between the Missouri Pacific
Company and persons who were at the time the holders of
nearly all the stock of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and
Southern Company "for the transfer of the ownership and
control of the franchises, property, and business of said lastnamed corporation to the said Missouri Pacific Railway Company," it being part of the arrangement that the" stockholders
of the said St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway
Company should not divest themselves altogether of their interest in the franchises, property, and business thereof, but that
they should place the same under the control and management
of the said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, by the method
of the transfer of their stock in said St. Louis, Iron Mountain
and Southern Railway Company to the said Missouri Pacific
Railway Company, and retain their interest therein by receiving
in exchange therefor the stock of the said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, in the proportion of three shares of the stock of
the Missouri Pacific to four shares of said St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern; and it was understood that, as a part of said
arrangement, the stock of said Missouri Pacific Railway Company received in exchange for said stock of said St. Louis, Iron

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Mountain and Southern would represent in the hands of its
holders a combined interest in the properties of both of said corporations; and that the stock of said St. Louis, Iron Mountain
and Southern which was by the arrangement aforesaid acquired
by the said Missouri Pacific Railway Company should be retained, held, and used by it to control the franchises, property,
and business of the said St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern
lRailway Company, in pursuance and execution of the purpose
aforesaid, through the authority of the board of directors of
said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, and in the interest of
all persons so holding as aforesaid stock of the Missouri Pacific
Railway Company."
And this, it was further alleged, was clone in pursuance "of a
general purpose to place the affairs aforesaid of said St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company under the control of the said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, that they
might be operated together as one institution as nearly as possible, and was a mode adopted to that end in lieu of various
other methods and modes proposed and considered, namely,
by consolidation, by lease, and otherwise, as being least subject to objection, based upon considerations of policy or legalitv."
At the expiration of the contract between the Pullman Con.
pany and the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Company,
the president of the last-named company notified the Pullman
Company that the further right of that company to have its
cars hauled over the line of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and
Southern road was .denied, and that the railroad company
would cease to operate its road with the cars of the Pullman
Company.
As a ground of equitable relief, the bill contained the following allegations:
"Your orator further shows that the refusal to operate your
orator's cars upon the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern
Railway, and the denial of your orator's right as aforesaid, is
a plain and palpable violation of the provisions of the contract
between your orator and said Missouri Pacific Railway Company ; that such contract cannot be violated without the great-

PULLMAN CAR CO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC CO. 591
Statement of Facts.

est and most irreparable damage to your orator; that the cars
constructed for the operation of your orator's business are of a
very costly sort; that your orator has invested a very large
capital in the construction and operation of said cars; that the
business of your orator; under its charter, and for which it is
incorporated, is of such a nature that it can be transacted only
through the instrumentality of contracts of the character
heroin set forth with railroad companies engaged in the business of running railway passenger trains; that by means of
such contracts it can run through cars between remote points
and over distances far greater than the length of the separate
lines of road, to the great convenience of the public; and that
the upholding and enforcement of such contracts is of vital importance and relation to the exercise of the corporate franchises of your orator, and to the public convenience; that if
said contracts can be violated as is threatened in the matters
hereinbefore stated, the facilities of through travel aforesaid
will be broken up, and the property and estate of your orator,
to the extent of very many thousands of dollars, which largely
exists and inheres in such contracts, will be destroyed in value,
and the corporate franchises of your orator practically destroyed ; that by reason of the magnitude of the investment as
aforesaid, and the cost of operating such cars, your orator cannot receive a fair return, unless it can have the exclusive operation of said business, as rovided in said contracts, with the
several companies over wAose roads it operates, and that the
exclusive right bargained for, and obtained by your orator in
said contracts, as in the contract hereinbefore mentioned, is not
only reasonable but absolutely necessary for the success of your
orator's business, without which your orator could not make
desirable contracts, and would not have made the agTeement
with the said Missouri Pacific Railway Company hereinbefore
mentioned.
"Your orator further shows that in making the contract
hereinbefore set forth with said railroad companies, and in
making the provisions therein contained, for the extension of
the operation of your orator's cars upon such roads as should
come within their control, it has had in contemplation the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellant.

growth and development of the business which, in the performance of said contract for many years past, it has been
building up and developing in the region of country through
which the said lines of railway hereinbefore mentioned run;
that said business has been largely buil up and developed by
the efforts and instrumentality of your orator; that, in the
hope and prospect of its future development, your orator has
borne the burden of sustaining and upholding it, when "the
business was comparatively small and unremunerative; and
that it will be a gross injustice and inequity to permit said railroad companies, by violation of contract, as aforesaid, to remove at the present time the cars of your orator from the line
of the said St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway
Company, or to discontinue operating them thereon, or to substitute the cars of any other party thereon."
.Mt. Edward S. Isham for appellant.-The burden of this
bill is that the road of the Iron Mountain Railway Company
has by virtue of an executed agreement passed into the actual
control of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company. The bill
does not set out a written contract, and then aver its meaning
by the construction of its terms. It avers a contract, whose
terms are shown only by its averments; and in this respect
none of the authorities cited by appellees apply. The substantial averments are (1.) An agreement to unite the Iron Mountain Road with that of the Missouri Pacific, under the common
management of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, as a
part of one line with its own road. (2.) The massing of all or
substantially all the stock of the Iron Mountain Road in the
treasury of the Missouri Pacific, and a substitution by exchange
of the stock of the Missouri Pacific therefor, as one step taken
in carrying that agreement into effect. (3.) "The purpose
on the part of both of said corporations of putting the control" of the property of the Iron Mountain into the hands of
the said Missouri Pacific "and of subordinating in effect the
roads of both the said corporations to one and the same management and control," namely, that of the Missouri Pacific.
(4.) The consummation of that intent and purpose; in that im-

PULLMAN CAR CO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC CO. 593
Argument for Appellant.

mediately upon the acquisition by the Missouri Pacific of the
control of the affairs of the Iron Mountain Company, "and in
the exercise of the control of said Missouri Pacific Railway Company, they proceeded to put the persons who were charged with
the management of the affairs of the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company, into the actual control and management of the
franchises, property, business and road of the Iron Mountain
Company." (5) The actual fact of the present control and
management of the business and road of the Iron Mountain
by the Missouri Pacific; that the general offices of the Iron
Mountain have been everywhere abandoned and closed and
their business has been transferred to the offices of the Missouri Pacific, and in every respect there has been effected and
brought about a complete absorption of the said St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company, and a complete amalgamation of the said two companies, so far as the
actual conduct and administration of their business is concerned.
These averments (1) as to an agreement; (2) as to the intention of the parties; (3) as to the consummation of the agreement, are all questions of fact, not traversed, and are admitted
by the demurrer. Intention is a traversable fact. Moss v. Riddle, 5 Cranch, 351, 357; Thurston, v. Cornell, 3S N. Y. 281;
1]aight v. P7aight, 19 N. Y. 46-, 468; M1iller v. Miller, 15
Barb. 203; Forbes v. Waller, 25 N. Y. 430, 439; 010l v. White,
12 N. Y. 519, 538; De Ridder v. MeKnigkt, 13 Johns. 294;
Falker v. Sedgwiek, 8 Cal. 398. These averments, therefore,
are matters of substantive fact. If the appellees were not to
treat them as assumed to be true on demurrer, they ought to
have traversed them. If they are true the Iron Mountain road
is within the control of the Missouri Pacific.
-[Mr. Isha? also argued that appellant's only remedy for the
enforcement of those parts of the contract which were negative was by injunction, citing Testern, Union Tel. Co. v. Union
Paf/. Railway Co., 1 McCrary, 418, 558, and 581; Pomeroy
on Specific Performance, §§ 241, 25, 310, 311, 312; Singer Co.
v. Union Clo., 1 Holmes, 253, 256; Jones v. NZorth, L. R. 19
Eq. 426; De Jfattos v. Gibson, 4 DeG. & J. 276, 279; Yncent
VOL.

cxv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Chicago & Alton Railroad Co., 49 Ill. 33; Frank v. Brun,nemann, 8 W. Va. 462; Rankin v. Huskiwon, 4 Sim. 13; Cole
Xining Co. v. Virginia &c. Water Co., 1 Sawyer, 470 and
685; Ikfempis & Little Rock Railroad Co. v. Southern .Ex7press Co., 8 Fed. Rep. 799.
Xlr. John F. Dillon and -Mr. A. T. Britton for appellees.

:Mi. CHIEF JUSTICE W rrE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
The main questions involved in the merits of this case are,
1, whether the contract between the Missouri Pacific and Pullman Companies, made before the consolidation, binds the consolidated company to haul the Pullman cars over the road of
the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Company, if that
road is controlled by the consolidated company within the
meaning of the contract; and, 2, whether it is so controlled
by the consolidated company.
The present Missouri Pacific Company is a different corporation from that which contracted with the Pullman Company.
The original company owned and operated a railroad between
St. Louis and Kansas City. This company owns and operates
that road and others besides. It is a new corporation created
by the dissolution of several old ones, and the establishment of
this in their place. It has new powers, new franchises, and
new stockholders. Clearwater v. .feredith, 1 Wall. 25, 42;
Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319, 323; Railroad Co. v. .aine, 96
'U. S. 499, 508; Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359, 364;
Louisville & Fashville Railroad Co. v. Panes,109 U. S. 244,
254. The bill does indeed aver that the Missouri Pacific Company "consolidated with itself certain other companies, . . .
retaining its former name," but, as this was done under the
laws of Missouri, the effect of the consolidation depends on
those laws. Central Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665,
670. They provide that "any two or more railroad companies
in this State, existing under either general or special laws, and
owning railroads constructed wholly or in part, which, when

PULLMAN CAR CO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC CO. 595
Opinion of the Court.

completed and connected, will form, in the whole or in the
main, one continuous line of railroad, are hereby auth9rized
to consolidate in the whole or in the main, and form one company owning and controlling such continuous line of road, with
all the powers, rights, privileges and immunities, and subject
to all the obligations and liabilities to the State, or otherwise,
which belong to or rested upon either of the companies making such consolidation." In order to accomplish such consolidation an agreement to that effect must be entered into by the
companies interested. "A certified copy of such articles of
agreement, with the corporate name to be assumed by the new
company, shall be filed with the secretary of state when the
consolidation shall be considered duly consummated, and a certified copy from the office of the secretary of state shall be
deemed conclusive evidence thereof." "The board of directors
of the several companies may then proceed to carry out such
contract according to its provisions, calling in the certificates
of stock then outstanding in the several companies or roads,
and issuing certificates of stock in the new consolidated company under such corporate name as may have been adopted."
Rev. Stat. Missouri 1879, § 789. This clearly contemplates
the actual dissolution of the old corporations and the creation
of a new one to take their place.
The new company assumed on the consolidation all the obligations of the old Missouri Pacific. This requires it to haul
the Pullman cars, under the contract, on all roads owned or
controlled by the old company at the time of the consolidation,
but it does not extend the operation of the contract to other
roads which the new company may afterwards acquire. The
power of the old company to get the control of other roads
ceased when its corporate existence came to an end, and the
new company into which its capital stock was merged by the
consolidation undertook only to assume its obligations as they
then stood. It did not bind itself to run the cars of the Pullman Company on all the roads it might from time to time itself
control, but only on such as were controlled by the old Missouri Pacific. Contracts thereafter made to get the control of
other roads would be the contracts of the new consolidated

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

company, and not of those on the dissolution of which that
company came into existence. It follows that the present Missouri Pacific Company is not required, by the contract of the
old company, to haul the Pullman cars on the road of the St.
Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Company, even if it does
now control that road, within the meaning of the contract.
We are also of opinion that the railroad of the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Company is not controlled by the
present Missouri Pacific Company in such a way as to require
that company to haul the Pullman cars over it, if the contract
is binding on the new company to the same extent it would be
on the old were that company still in existence and standing
in the place of the new. Confessedly the St. Louis, Iron
Mountain and Southern Company keeps up its own corporate
organization. It operates its own road. It has its own officers
and makes its own bargains. The Missouri Pacific owns all, or
nearly all, its stock, and in that way can determine who shall
constitute its board of directors, but there the power of that
company over the management stops. The board when elected
has controlling authority, and for its doings is not necessarily
answerable to the Missouri Pacific Company. The two roads
are substantially owned by the same persons and operated in
the same interest, but that of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and
Southern Company is in no legal sense controlled by the Missouri Pacific.
It is true the bill avers in many places and in many ways
that the purchase of the stock of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain
and Southern Company was made by the Missouri Pacific Company for the purpose and with the intent of getting the control
of the road of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern,
and that the case is before us on demurrer to the bill. A demurrer admits all facts stated in the bill which are well
pleaded, but not necessarily all statements of conclusions of law.
What was actually done is stated clearly and distinctly. The
effect of what was done is a question of law, not of fact. It is
a matter of no importance what the purpose of the parties was
if what they did was not sufficient in law to accomplish what
they wanted. When there is doubt, the purpose and intention

PULLMAN CAR- CO. v. MISSOURI PACIFIC CO. 597
Opinion of the Court.

of the parties may sometimes aid in explaining what was done,
but here there is no need of explanation. The Missouri Pacific
Company has bought the stock of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain
and Southern Company, and has effected a satisfactory election of directors, but this is all. It has all the advantages of a
control of the road, but that is not in law the control itself.
Practically it may control the company, but the company
alone controls its road. In a sense, the stockh~olders of a corporation own its property, but they are not the managers of its
business or in the immediate control of its affairs. Ordinarily
they elect the governing body of the corporation, and that
body controls its property. Such is the case here. The Missouri Pacific Company owns enough of the stock of the St.
Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern to control the election of
directors, and this it has done. The directors now control the
road through their own agents and executive officers, and
these agents and officers are in no way under the direction of
the Missouri Pacific Company. If they or the directors act
contrary to the wishes of the Missouri Pacific Company, that
company has no power to prevent it, except by the election, at
the proper time and in the proper way, of other directors, or
by some judicial proceeding for the protection of its interest as
a stockholder. Its rights and its powers are those of a stockholder only. It is not the corporation, in the sense of that
term as applied to the management of the corporate business
or the control of the corporate property.
Something was intimated in argument about the duty of the
railway company to haul the cars of the Pullman Company,
because of the nature of the business in which the latter company was engaged, which consisted "of hiring or otherwise
arranging with railway companies to use its cars," "under
written contracts, for a term of years." The bill also alleges
that, "by reason of the magnitude of the investment" "and
the cost of operating such cars," the Pullman Company "cannot
receive a fair return unless it can have the exclusive operation
of said business, as provided in said contracts with the several.
companies over whose roads it operates." It may be, as is also
alleged, that it has "become indispensable, in the conduct of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

the business of a railroad company, to run on passenger trains
sleeping and drawing-room cars, with the conveniences usually
afforded by such cars for night travel," but it by no means
follows that the railway is, in law, obliged to arrange with the
Pullman Company for such accommodations. According to the
bill itself, two such car companies cannot successfully carry on
a competing business on the same road, and the custom has
been for the Pullman Company, if possible, to contract for the
exclusive right. The business is always done under special
written contracts. These contracts must necessarily vary, according to the special circumstances of each particular case.
Certainly, it cannot be claimed that a court of chancery is
competent to require these companies to enter into such a contract for the furnishing and hauling of Pullman cars, as the
court may deem reasonable. A mere statement of the proposition is sufficient to show that it is untenable.
An objection was raised to the jurisdiction of a court of
equity to grant relief such as is asked. This we do not consider,
as we are all agreed that the demurrer was properly sustained
upon the other grounds.
Decree afflrnwd.

HASSALL, Trustee, v. WILCOX & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted November 23, 188.-Decided December 7, 1885.

When separate judgments, for separate creditors, on separate claims, are
rendered in one decree in equity, and a general appeal is taken, the appeal
will, on motion, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction as to all who do not
recover more than $5000, and will be retained as to those who recover in
excess of $5000.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Waterman, 106 U. S. 265, approved and applied.

This was a motion to dismiss, with which was united a

