iHORNS3Y V. UNITID STATES.

[Slip. Ct.,

Syllabus.

It would be giving a most unreasonable construction to the
act were we to hold, that by mere]y delaying to appeal, when.
it was all the time in his power, he could have suspended
the running of the statute indefinitely. Deducting, then,
the four months and twenty-two days, during which his appeal was pending, and during whichf he was disabled, from
the four years and sixteen days that elapsed between the
inception of his right to sue and the commencement of his
suit, there remain much more than three years in which he
was under no disability, except such as was imposed by himself. The judgment of the Circuit Court on the demurrer
was, therefore, correct.
It remains only to add that the case was well removed
into' the Circuit Court of the United States.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH

HORNSBY ET AL. V. UNITED

COSTS.

STATES.

1. Grants of the public domain of 'Mexico, made by governors of the, department of California, were of three kinds: 1st, grants by specific
boundaries, where the donee was entitled to the entire tract described;
2d, grants by quantity, as of one or more leagues situated at some designated place, or within a larger tract described by out-boundaries,
where the donee was entitled out of the general tract only to the quantity specified; and 3d, grants of places by name, where the donee was
entitled to the tract named according to the limits, as shown by its
settlement and possession, or other competent evidence.
.2 Grants of the second elass,-those by quantity,-passed from the government to the grantees, upon their execution, the right to the quantity of
land specified therein, to be afterwards laid off by official authority at
the place or within the larger tract designated.
3. Under Mexico the measurement and segregation from the public domain
of the quantity, specified in this class of grants, could only be made by
the officers of the government. 'A measurement by the grantee was
inoperative for any purpose. Although a general possession of the
*

odgson v. Milward,. 3 Grant, 412 and 418; Bigelow v. Forrest, 9

Wallace, 339.

Dec. 1869.]

IORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

land ceded was permitted in California before the official measurement,
the grantee acquired by such possession no, absolute right to the tract
occupied, or any interest which could control the action of the officers
of the government in the segregation of the land.
Although the regulations of 1828, which were adopted to carty into
effect the colonization law of 1824, provided that a map of the land'
solicited should accompany the petition for a grant, a compliance with
the provision was not exacted in all cases. The governors exercised a
discretionary power of dispensing with it under special circumstances.
No motive existed for insisting upon its presentation when the information, which it was designed to impart, was already in the public
archives open to the inspection of the governor ; and such information
existed there in the present case.
Although the regulations provided that the governor, upon receiving a
petition for land, should proceed to obtain the necessary information as
to the qualifications of the petitioner and the character of the land;
they did not prescribe any particular mode by which this information
should be acquired. It might have been obtained by the governor from
his own investigations, or he might, as stated in the regulations, if that
course were preferred, consult the appropriate municipal authority,
which was that of the district, whether any objection existed to making
the grant. Formal reference to the local magistrate, and a report from
him, were not essential to give the information required, although this
course was usually adopted.
A clause in the grant in this case, subjecting it to the approval of the
departmental assembly, did not prevent the title from passing to the
grantees upon the execution of the instrument. Such approval was not
a condition precedent to the vesting of the title. According to the
regulations of 1828 the authority to make grants of land in California
was lodged solely with the governor. It was not shared by him with
the assembly. That body only possessed the power to approve or disapprove of grants made by him. Until such approval the estate
granted was subject to be defeated. With such approval the grant became, as it was termed in the regulations, ' Idefinitively valid,'" that is,
it ceased to be dofeasible, and the estate was no longer liable to be divested, except by proceedings for breach of its other conditions.
It was the duty of the governor, and not of the grantee, to submit to
the assembly grants issued by him for its approbation. His neglect in
this respect supended the definitive validity, as it was termed, of the
grants,; that is, it prolonged the liability of the estate to be defeated
by the action of the assembly, and of the supreme government thereon,
to which the matter was referred in case the approval of the assembly
was not obtained; and no other consequence followed. His neglect was
not permitted to operate to divest the grantees of the estate already
vested in them.
In passing upon claims under Mexican grants in California, the question
is,. what right did the grantees acquire in the land from the Mexican
VOL. X.

16

226

HORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
authorities? This court cannot inquire into any acts or omissions by
them since those authorities were displaced. It is not authorized to
pronounce a forfeiture for anything done, or anything omitted by them
since that period.
9. Thd political department of the government having designated the 7th
of July, 1846, as the period when the .conquest of California was completed, the judiciary follows the action of the political department. On
that date, therefore, the authority and jurisdiction of Mexican officials
in California are considered as having terminated.
10. The grant in this case was for the surplus land remaining in two places
after satisfying out of those places two previous grants to other parties,
'including other lands within the jurisdiction of the same pueblo to
make up the amount of nine leagues; and to it were annexed conditions, the second of which provided that the grantees should solicit the
proper judge to give them juridical possession of the land; and it was
here objected to the confirmation of the claim, that the grantees had
forfeited their rights under the grant by not applying for such possession,
and never entering upon the land. The objection was answered: 1st,
by the fact, that between the date of the grant and the displacenient of
the authority of Mexican officials only sixty-one days had elapsed, and
that within a period so limited juridical possession was seldom delivered
after the issue of a grant;, 2d, by the fact, that it was impossible for the
magistrate to deliver such possession until the previous grants in the
same general locality had been surveyed and severed from the public
domain, and no sach survey and severance were had, nor was tany action
ever taken by the previous grantees to have the quantity granted to
them segregated previous to the conquest; and the grantees in this case
could not of themselves have lawfully intruded upon the possessions of
the previous grantees, and undertaken themselves to determine what
part of the general tract should be set apart to those previous grantees,
and appropriate the balance as the surplus to which they were entitled;
8d, by the fact, that mere neglect to comply with the condition, even
if unreasonably prolonged, did not of itself work a forfeiture, of the
grantees right under the Mexican law, but only left the land open to
denouncement by other parties. Some formal and regular proceedings
were required to effect a divestiture of a grantee's interest under the
Mexican law, and these had their inception in what is termed a denouncement by a party desirous of obtaining the land. An investigation then followed whether or not the condition bad been complied with
or so disregarded as td justify a decree of forfeiture. Without such
inquisition and decree the title did not revert to the government, nor
was the land subject to be regranted.
11. The interest which passed by the grant in this case, whether it be regarded as a legal title, imperfect in its character, and to be perfected
by a subsequent official survey and segregation of the quantity designated, or as a mere equitable or inchoate title, constituted property
which the United States were bound to protect by the stipulations of

Dec. 1869.]

DopNSBY P.

UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.
the treaty of cession. By the term property, as applied to lands, all
titles are embraced, legal or equitable, perfect or imperfect.

frol the District Court of California.
This case was brought by the appellants, Hornsby and
Roland, for the confirmation of a claim made by them under
a Mexican grant for nine square leagues of land, situated in
California, under the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851, to
ascertain and settle private land claims in that State.* The
grant was issued to Luis Arenas (whose interest had since
passed to the claimant Ilornsby) and Jose Roland, May 6th,
1846, by Pio Pico, then governor of the Department of
California.
Some years before the issue of this grant, a grant of two
square leagues in the place called Las Animas had been
made to one Thomas Brown, from whom the property by
mesne conveyances had passed to a certain Charles Weber;
and ia grant of about the same quantity in the place called
Canada de Pala had been made to Jose Bernal and others.
For the surplus land remaining in these places, after satisfying the previous grants, including lands of the Cerro Colorado, within the jurisdiction of the same pueblo, to make
up the amount of nine leagues, Arenas and Roland, on the
5th of May, 1846, presented their petition to the governor.
No map of the land accompanied this petition, but the parties in the petition offered to present a map to the governor
at a convenient time.
On the margin of the petition, the governor made an order
that a decree of concession be issued, and the title (the grant)
be delivered to the parties for their protection. On the following day, the 6th, the governor made a full and formal
decree of concession, in which he stated that in the exercise
of the powers with which he wts invested by the supreme
government, and in the name of the Mexican nation, lie declared the petitioners owners of the land so located, and
directed that the title (titulo-the grant) be issued which
would secure to them the property.
APPEAL

* 9 Stat. at Large, 631.

HItORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The formal grant then issued; in it the governor recited
the petition, and then stated that the "necessary steps having been taken, and inquiries made," he bad, by a decree
of that day in the exercise of the powers with which he was
invested by the supreme government in the name of the
Mexican nation, declared, and did then declare the petitioners "owners in full property" of the land, describing
it as in the petition, in conformity with the law of the 18th
of August, 1824, and the regulations of November 21st,,
1828, "subject to the approval of the departmental assembly,
and under the following conditions:
"1st. They (the grantees) may inclose it without injuring
the passes, roads, and servitudes, and may enjoy it fully and
exclusively, appropriating it to such use as may suit them.,
"2d. They shall solicit the proper judge to give them juridical possession by virtue of this decree, and he shall mark
the boundaries with the proper landmarks.
"3d. Tie land hereby granted is nine leagues of the largest size, and is situated in the surplus or vacant lands of the
ranchos of Don Carlos Weber and Don Jose de Jesus Bernal,
including the lands of the Cerro Colorado towards the valley.
The judge who shall give the possession, shall have it measured in conformity to law, in view of the map which will
be presented by the parties interested."
Traced copies of the petition, the marginal order, the decree of concession, and of the draft of the grant, from the
archives of the Department of California, in the custody of
the Surveyor-General of the United States for California,
and the original grant issued to the petitioners, were produced before the board of land commissioners, and in the
District Court. No question appears to have been made in
either tribunal as to their genuineness. The grant issued
bore the signatures of the governor, Pio Pico, and of the
acting secretary of state at the time, Moreno. The genuineness of these signatures was proved by a witness produced
by the claimants before the commissioners; but they rejected
the claim on the ground that there was no evidence that the
grant was ever approved by the departmental assembly, or

Dec. 1869.]

HORNSBY V; UNITED

STATES.

Statenent of the case.

that juridical possession was ever given, or that tle grantees
were ever in possession of the land, or occupied it in any
manner; and that the description of the land was too vague
and indefinite to enable the commissioners to describe it
with any degree of certainty. The commissioners, without
making the fact a distinct ground of rejection, also observed,
in their opinion, that the governor, the day following the
receipt of the petition, had, "without, so far as appears from
the record, making any inquiries or investigations in relation to the matter, entered a decree of concession, and directed the title to be issued and delivered to th6 interested
parties."
From the decree of the board of land commissioners an
appeal was taken to the District Court. Whilst the case
was pending in that court, the parties entered into a stipulation that certain depositions of Pio Pico, of Moreno, and
of Rufus C. Hopkins, taken in another case in which Roland
was also a claimant, might be used in this case. In his deposition thus used, Pico testified to the genuineness of his signature to the grant in this case, and also that it was custornary to take inform~s (that is, to have an official report
upon the subject) as to the qualifications of applicants and
upon the land solicited before making a concession, but that
it was not indispensable, and that it was not unusual for a
petition to be signed, a marginal order and a decree of concession made, and a title issued on the same day; that often
a number of concessions were made on the same day; and in
the assembly a number of concessions were often confirmed
on the same day.
Moreno, in his deposition, also testified to the genuineness
of his own signature, and that of Pico, to the grant in this
case.
Hopkins, the keeper of the Mexican archives in California,
in his deposition, testified that he had made the archives of
the former Spanish and Mexican governments in California
his special study for the then last preceding' seven years;
that there was no book of record in the archives showing
petitions presented for land, and grants made with maps of.

230

HORNSBY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the lands qranted, as required to be kept by the regulations
of November, 1828, and that there was no trace whatever
amongst the archives of the existence of any such book at
any former time; that the nearest approach to any .such
record were the espedientes on file in the archives; that
these espedientes were the various proceedings in reference
to individual grants, written upon sheets of paper and
stitched together, and, when concluded, indorsed and numbered by the secretury, and filed in the archives.
In answer to the question as to what evidence, if there
was no record, did the archives furnish of the fact of the
issue of any grant whatever since 1828, the witness stated,
" That the only evidences to be found in the archives of the
issuance of grants since 1828, are 1st, the espedientes already referred to; 2d, a book in which titles (the grants) are
recorded, which were issued in 1833, '34, and '35; 3d, the
index known as the 'Jemino Ipdex,' embracing grants nmade
from 1833 to 1844, inclusive; 4th, a Toina do Razon, orygistry of grants issued in 1844, '45; 5th, an index knovn as
the 'I artuell Index;' 6th, Toma de Razon, kept by prefbcts
in 1843; 7th, journals of the departmental assembly, from
1829 to 1846; 8th, official correspondence in which grants
OVe refe4,red to;. 9th, some loose maps and borradors in ref
erence to gauts." He continued:
"The record I have referred to, of 1833 to 1835, contains
a copy of the entire grant or titulo-without the previous Iproceedings or maps;" and with respect to grants issued in 1846,
he testified that " the only evidence the archives furnish of
grants made in 1846, are the espedientes-referred to, journals of the departmental assembly, the Jlartuell index, and
official correspondence, borradors, &c."
The District Attorney of the United States admitted in
writing in the District Court, that the grant in this case was
issued by Governor Pico on the 6th of May 1846; and that
the extent of the surplus lands for which it was issued had
not then been ascertained.
The District Court affirmed the decree of the board of
land commissioners and rejected the claim, but the district

Dec. 1869.]

HORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

judge states in his opinion below, that the genuineness of
the papers produced from the archives and of the title produced by the claimants, was not disputed by the counsel of
the United States. The rejection of the claim was placed
on the ground that no investigation was had by the governor
as to the condition of the land, or the qualification of the
parties; that the whole proceeding was commenced and
consummated within two days; and that no evidence was
offered to show that either of the grantees ever settled or
attempted to settle on the land, or that any surplus lands
existed for which the grant called.
Of the regulations for the colonization of the territories
of Mexico, adopted November 21st, 1828, the following are
those which bear upon the questions raised in this case.*
1st. The governors (Gefes Politicos) of the territories are
authorized (in compliance with the law of the General Congress,
of the 18th of August, 1824, and under the conditions hereafter
specified) to grant vacant lands, in their respective territories,

to such contractors (empressarios), families, or private person's,
whether Mlexicans or foreigners, who may ask Ibr them, for the
purpose of cultivating and inhabiting them.
2d. Every person soliciting lands, whether he be an empressario, head of a family, or private person, shall address to the
governor of the respective territory a petition, expressing his

name, country, profession, the number, description, religion,
and other circumstances of the families, or persons, with whom
he wishes to colonize, describing, as distinctly as possible, by
means of a map, the land asked for.
3d. The governor shall proceed immediately to obtain the

necessary information, whether the petition embraces the requisite conditions, required by said law of the 18th of August, both
as regards the land and the candidate, in order that the petitioner may at once be attended to ; or, if it be preferred, the re-

spective municipal authority may be consulted, whether there be any
objection to making the grant or not.
4th. This being done, the governor will accede, or not, to such
Taken from the translation in Rockwell's Spanish and Mexictan Law
in relation to mines and titles to real estate, vol. i, p. 453.

IIORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.
petition, in exact conformity to the laws on the subject, and
especially to the before mentioned one of the 18th of August,
1824.
5th. The grants made to families, or private persons, shall
not be held to be definitively valid without the previous consent
of the territorial deputation, to which end the respective documents (espedientes) shall be fbrwarded to it.
6th. When the governor shall not obtain the approbationof the
territorial deputation, he shall report to the supreme government,
forwarding the necessary documents for its decision.
7th. The grants made to empressarios, for them to colonize
with many families, shall not be held to be definitively valid, until
the approval of the supreme government be obtained, to which
the necessary documents must be forwarded along with the report of the territorial deputation.
8th. The definitive grant asked for being made, a'document
signed by the governor shall be given to serve as a title to the
party interested, wherein it must be stated that said grant is
made in exact conformity with the provisions of the-laws, in
virtue whereof possession shall be given.
9th. The necessary record shall be kept in a book destined for the
purpose, of all the petitionspresented and grants made, with the maps
of the lands granted, and the circumstantial report shall be forwarded quarterly to the supreme government.
Messrs. M. Blair and F. A. Dick, for the appellants.
Mr. Wills, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
As we have bad occasion to observe in several instances,*
grants of the, public domain of Mexico, made by governors
of the department of California, were of three kinds: 1st,
grants by specific boundaries, where the donee was entitled
to the entire tract described; 2d, grants by quantity, as of
one or more leagues situated at some designated place, or
within a larger-tract described by out-boundaries, where the
donee was entitled out of the general tract only to the quan* Higdieras v. United States, 6 Wallace, 828; Alviso v. United States, 8
Id. 339.

Dec. 1869.]

HORNSBY V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

tity specified; and 3d, grants of places by name, where the
donee was entitled to the tract named according to the
limits, as shown by-its settlenent and possession, or other
competent evidence.
The greater number of the grants which have conic before
this court for examination have belonged to the second class.
They have usually designated the land ceded by the general
name of the valley or locality where situated, with a clause
annexed that the concession was limited to the specific
quantity mentioned, and that the magistrate of the vicinage, of whom possession was to be solicited, should cause
the same to be surveyed, and that any surplus existing
should be reserved for the use of the nation.
When the first grant of this kind was presented for -the
consideration of this court, in the Fremont case,* which was
for ten leagues within a tract of much greater extent, it wits
objected that the grant was void for uncertainty of description, and that no interest passed to the grantee until the
quantity was surveyed and severed by known boundaries
from the public domain; but the court held the objection
untenable, and that, as between the government and the
grantee, the latter had a vested interest in the quantity of
land -mentioned. "The right to so much land," said the
Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, "to be
afterwards laid off by official authority in the territory described, passed from the government to him by the execution of the instrument granting it." And in support of the
principle 'asserted, the court cited the case of 'Rutherford v.
Greene's heirs, reported in 2d Wheaton,t which arose upon
an act of the State of North Carolina, passed in 1782, providing that twenty-five thousand acres of land should be allotted and given to General Greene and his heirs, within
the bounds of a tract reserved for the use of the army, to be
laid off by commissioners appointed for that purpose. The
commissioners, in pursuance of the act, allotted the twentyfive thousand acres, and caused the quantity to be surveyed
* 17 Howard, 542, 558.

t Page 196.

HORNSBY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

off, and the survey to be returned to the proper office, and
the question upon which the case turned related to the validity of the title of General Greene, and the date at which
it commenced. The court held that the general gift of
twenty-five thousand acres lying in the territory reserved,
became by the survey a particular gift of the quantity
within the survey, and concluded an ehborate examination
of the title by stating, that it was the clear and unanimous
opinion of the court, that the act of 1782 vested a title in
General Greene to the twenty-five thousand acres to be laid
off within the boundaries designated, and that the survey,
made in pursuance of the act, gave preZ1UiQn to that title,
and attached it to the land surveyed.
And this court, in deciding the Fremont case, observed
in reference to this case of Butherford v. Greene's 1feirs, that
"it recognizes as a general principle of justice and municipal law, that such a grant for a certain quantity of land
'by the government, to be afterwards surveyed and laid off
within a certain territory, vests in the grantee a present and
im mediate interest. In the language of the court, the general
gift becomes a particular gift when the survey is made; and
when this doctrine has been asserted in this court, upbn the
general principles which courts of justice apply to such grants
from the public to an individual, good fitth requires that the
same doctrine should be applied to grants made by the Mexican government, where a controversy arises between the
United States and the Mexican grantee."*
Under Mexico the measurement and segregation friom the
public domain of the'quantity, specified in this class of grants,
could only be made by the officers of the government. A
measurement by the grantee was inoperative for any purpose. Although a general possession of the land ceded was
permitted in California before the official measurement, the
grantee acquired by such possession no absolute right to the
tract occupied, or any interest which could control the action
of the officers of the government in the se'gregation of the
17 Howard, 559.

Dee, 1869.]

D ORNSBY
9
V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

land. A private survey was as ineffectual under the former
government as under the present government. The right,
which the former government reserved to itself over the
survey, pussed, with all other public rights, to the United
States upon the cession of the country, and is now to be
exercised in pursuance of their laws.*
Now, if we consider the present case in the light of these
views, we shall find little difficulty in its disposition. The
grant here, like the one in the Fremont ease, is a grant by
quantity. It was made under the same law and regulations,
and like that, was subject to the approval of the departmental assembly, and has certain conditions annexed. It
was issued to Luis Arenas and John Roland, on the sixth of
May, 1846, by the then governor of California. A petition
for the land had been presented by them to him on the fifth
of May, and the same day he made an order on its margin
directing a decree of concession, and the issue of a grant
to the parties. On the subsequent day, the sixth, a formal
decree was signed by him deciaring the petitioners owners
of the land, and directing a grant to be issued, which would
secure to thern the property. The grant followed. The petition, the njarginal order, the decree of concession, and the
draft of the grant, are in the Mexican archives now in the custody of the Surveyor-General of the United States for California. Traced copies of these instruments, and the original
grant issued, were produced by the claimants before the land
commissioners and in the District Court. Their genuineness and authenticity were not disputed in either tribunal.
The issue of the grant by the governor was admitted in the
written stipulation of the counsel of the government.
Several years previous to the issue of this grant to iRoland and Arenas, a grant of two square leagues in the place
called Las Animas had been made to one Thomas Brown,
from whom the property by various mesne conveyances had
passed to one Charles Weber; and a grant of about the
same quantity in the place called Cafiada de Pala had been
* 17 Howard, 565.

HORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

made to Jos6 Bernal and others. For the surplus land remaining in these places, after satisfying the previous grants,
including lands of the Cerro Colorado within the jurisdiction of th:e same pueblo, to make up the amount of nine
leagues, the petition of Roland and Arenas was presen~ted,
and the grant to them was issued. No map of the land
solicited accompanied the petition, but the petitioners offered
to furnish a map to the governor at a convenient time, that
is, whenever there might be occasion for its use.
The grant, after reciting the petition, and that the necessary steps had been taken and inquiries made, proceeds to
state, that the governor, by a decree of that day, in the exercise of the powers with which he was invested by the
supreme government, and in the name of the Mexican nation, had declared and did declare the parties owners in full
property of the land solicited, describing it as in the petition, in conformity with the law of 1824 and the regulations
of 1828, subject to the approval of the departmental assembly
and certain conditions annexed.
The instrument purports on its face to transfer a full title
to the property solicited. If valid when issued, it passed,
according to the decision in the Freniont case, to the grantees a present and immediate interest in the quantity of land
specified, to be subsequently laid off by official authority.
And this brings us to the questions, whether there was anything in the action of the governor or of the grantees previous to its issue, which impaired its validity; and if the
instrument was valid when issued, whether there was any
such subsequent disregard of its conditions as to work its
forfeitu re.
That the governor, under Mexico, was authorized to make
grants of land in the department of California is not questioned; and that the instrument produced in this case is
genuine and was issued by him is admitted. But it is said
that the grantees did not accompany their petition with a
map of the land solicited, and that the governor did not
make any inquiries as to the qualifications of the petitioners,
and the condition of the land, as required by the regulations

:Dec. 1869.]

1HORNSBY

V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

of 1828, which were adopted to carry into effect the colonization law of 1824.
It is true, that the regulations provided that a map of the
,land solicited should accompany the petition, but a compliance with the provision was not exacted in all cases. The
governors exercised a discretionary power of dispensing
with it under special circumstances. No motive existed for
insisting uponl its presentation whien the information, which
it was designed to impart, was already in the public archives
open to the inspection of the governor; and such information existed there in the present case. At any rate, the
governor was satisfied with the offer of the petitioners to
furnish a map at the proper time subsequently. As was
said in the Fremont case, in answer to an objection of a
similar character, " the court could not, without doing inajustice to individuals, give to the Mexican laws a more
narrow and strict construction than they received from the
Mexican authorities who were intrusted with their execution."*
It is also true that the regulations provided that the governor, upon receiving a petition for land, should proceed to
obtain the necessary information as to the qualifications of
the petitioner and the character of the land. But they did
not prlescribe any particular mode by which thig information
should be acquired. It might have been obtained by the
governor from his own investigations, or he might, as stated
in the regulations, if that course were preferred, consult the
appropriate municipal authority, which was that of the district, whether any objection existed to making the grant.
In some instances, as in the case of Sutter, the character of
the petitioner, and of the land solicited, were matters of
general notoriety.t The objection appears to proceed upon
the idea that a formal reference to the local magistrate, and
a report from him, were essential to giye the information
required. This course was usually adopted, but it was not
* 17 HowarA, 561.

f United States v. Sutter, 21 Id. 172; The Sutter Case, 2 Wallace. 668.

ItORNSBY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup.'Ct.

Opini6n of the court.

essential. The grant ill this case recites that the necessary
steps had been taken, and inquiries made, and something
more than mere surmises at this day are necessary to show
-that the recital is false.*
There is nothing in thesa objections which touches the
validity of the instrument at the tinie it issued. And the
clause subjecting the grant to the approval of the departmental assembly did not prevent the title from passing to
the grantees upon the execution of the instrument. Such
approval was not a condition precedent to the vesting of the
title. According to the regulations of 1828, the authority
to make grants of land in California was lodged solely with
the governor. It was not shared by him with the assembly.
That body oly possessed the power to approve or disapprove of grants made by him. Until such approval the
estate gt~anted was subject to be defeated. With such approval the grant became, as it was termed in the regulations,
" definitively valid," that is, it ceased to be defeasible, and
the estate was no longer liable to be divested, except by
proceedings for breach of its other conditions.
Besides it was the duty of the governor, and not of the
grantee, to submit to the assembly grants issued by him for
their approbation. His neglect in this respect suspended
the definitive validity, as it was termed, of the grants; that
is, it prolonged the liability of the estate to be defeated by
the action of the assembly, and of the supreme government
thereon, to which the matter was reforred in case the approval of the assembly was not obtained; and no other consequence followed. His neglect was not permitted to operate
to divest the grantees of the estate already vested in them.t
In many instances years elapsed before the approval was
obtained, although the grantees were in the meantime in
the possession and enjoyment of the property; and in many
instances no approval was had previous to the conquest.
United States v. Johnson, 1 Wallace, 329.
t United States v. Rending, 18 Howard, 4; United States v. Vaca, .b.
556; 'United States v. Larkin, 1b. 558; United States v. Cruz Cervantes,
lb. 653; United States v. Johnson, 1 Wallace, 329.

Dec. 1869.]

eIoRNSBY V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

The grant being valid at the time of its issue, has there
been any such disregard of the conditions annexed as to
work its forfeiture? The objection taken is that the grantees never applied to the propqr magistrate for official delivery of possession, as provided in the second condition
and that they never entered upon the land. The objection
applies only to the period intervening between the date of
the grant, and the time when the country passed under the
jurisdiction of the United States. The question is, what
right did the grantees acquire in the land from the Mexican
authorities. The court cannot inquire into any acts or omissions by them since those authorities were displaced. It is
not authorized to pronounce a forfeiture for anything done,
or anything omitted by them since that period. Now the
military forces of the United States took possession of Monterey, all important town of California, on the 7th of July,
1846, and within a few weeks afterwards occupied the principal portions of the country; and this occupation continued
until the treaty of peace. Oi that date, therefore, the authority and jurisdiction of Mexican officials are considered
as having terminated. The political department of the government, at least, has designated that day as the period
when the conquest of California was completed, and the
judiciary in this respect follows the action of the political
department.*
Between the date of the grant under consideration, and
the period thus designated, only sixty-one days elapsed.
There are very few instances of grants in California where
a juridical possession was delivered to the grantees within
a period as limited as this after their issue. In many instances years elapsed before this proceeding was had; and
in many instances no juridical possession was ever delivered
previous to the conquest.
In the case at bar it was impossible for the magistrate to
deliver such possession until the 'previous grants to Weber
and Bernal, in the same general locality, had been surveyed
* United States v. Yorba, 1 Wallace, 428.

HORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. -Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and severed from the public domain. It was for the surplus
in that territory, remaining after the quantities granted to
them had been satisfied, that the present granit called. What
part of the general tract occupied by the previous grantees
would be finally set apart, to them, could not be known until
the official measurement. The grantees in this case were
therefore necessarily compelled to await the action of the
elder grantees; and no action was ever taken by them to
segregate the quantity granted to them previous to the conquest.
This want of segregation of the quantities clairmed by the
previous grantees furnishes also an excuse to the grantees
here for not entering upon the land without the delivery of
juridical possession. To have made such entry would have
been to intrude upon the possessions of others. They could
not of themselves have undertaken to determine what part
of the general tracts should be set apart to the earlier grantees, and appropriate the balance as the surplus to which
hey were entitled.
But independent of the considerations stated, it is a sufficient answer to the objection to say, that mere neglect to
comply with the condition did not of itself work a fbrfeiture
of the grantees' right under the Mexican law. The neglect
of a grantee to apply for or to take possession, if unreasonably prolonged, only left the land open to denouncement by
other parties. The interest of a grantee could not be divested under the Mexican hiw any more than at the common
law, upon mere allegations or surmises. Some formal and
regula:' proceedings were required to effect such divestiture,
and under the Mexican law these had their inception in
what is termed a denouncement by a party desirous of obtaining the land. An investigation then followed whether
or not the condition had been complied with or so disregarded as to justify a decree of forfeiture. Without such
inquisition and decree the title did not revert to the government, nor was the land subject to be regranted.
The object of the colonization laws and regulations of
Mexico was the settlement of the vacant lancts of the re-

Dec. 1869.]

HORNSBY r. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

public, and grants were usually made to accomplish this
purpose without other consideration. But the public, as
observed in the Fremont case, " had no interest in forfeiting
them even in these cases, unless some other person desired,
and was ready to occupy them, and thus carry out the policy
of extending its settle ments."*
The several cases cited by counsel, where the absence of
possession and the omission of proceedings usually taken in
obtaining concessions of land, are noticed and made grounds
of objection to a confirmation, have no application. They
are cases, where the grants produced were unaccompanied
by any archive evidence, and the attempt was made to uphold them by evidence of the recollections of witnesses.
Thus, in the Carnbustou case,t the alleged grant produced
was. unknown to any person beside the grantee and an interested party until July, 1850, although bearing date iii
May, 1846, and no trace of' its existence wats found in the
archives of' the country. So in the Castro case,. the instrument produced as a grant first made its appearance in June,
1849, though dated in April, 1846, and was not sustained by
a single document in the archives. The absence of all traces
of the grants, where evidence would usually be found, if it
had existed, naturally created a strong presumption against
their validity, which could not be overcome by testimony
resting on the uncertain recollections of Mexican officials.
There having been no forfeiture of the grantees' interest
in the present case, nor any such disregard of the conditions
annexed to their grant as to have justified a forfeiture, the
claimants under the grant are entitled to a confirmation.
The interest which passed by the grant, whether it be regarded as a legal title, imperfect in its character, and to be
perfected by a subsequent official survey and segregation of
the quantity designated, or as a mere equitable or inchoate
title, constituted property which the United States were
bound to protect by the stipulations of the treaty of cession.
That treaty provides fir the protection of the rights of propI Howard, 661.
VOL. x.

::0 Id. 59.
16

$ 24 Id. 346.

[Sup. Ct.

HORNSBY V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Davis, Clifford, and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

erty of the inhabitants of the ceded territory. And, independent of the treaty, they were entitled to such protection
by the law of nations, according to which, as said by this
court in Strother v. Lucas,* "the rights of property are protected even in the case of a conquered country, and held
sacred and inviolable when it is ceded by treaty, with or
without any stipulation to such effect."
By the term property, as applied to lands, all titles are
embraced, legal or equitable, perfect or imperfect. It was
so held by this court in the case of Soulard v. The United
S1ates,t when considering the import of the term in a stipulation contained in the treaty by which Louisiana was acquired, providing that the inhabitants of that territory should
be protected in the enjoyment of their property. "It comprehends," said the court, " every species of title, inchoate
or complete. It is supposed to embrace those rights which
are executory as well as those which are executed. In this
respect the relation of the inhabitants to their government
is not changed. The new government takes the place of
that which has passed away."
It follows from the views we have expressed that the appellants possessed under the grant in this case, at the date
of the cession of California to the United States, a right of
property in the land granted, and, as a consequence, that
their claim is valid and should be confirmed.
The decree of the District Court must, therefore, be REand the cause remanded, with directions to enter a
decree
VERSED,

CONFIRMING THE CLAIM OF THE PETITIONERS.

Mr. Justice DAVIS, with whom concurred CLIFFORD
and SWAYNE, JJ., dissenting.
-I am unable to concur in the decree of the court in this
case, and as the claim embraces a large tract of country
which is a part of the public domain, if this claim is not
*12

Peters, 436.

t4

Id. 51 1.

Dec. 1869.]

D 6omiNSBY

V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Davis, Clifford, and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

sustainable, I think it proper to state as briefly as possible
the grounds of my dissent. Similar claims have been so
frequently before the court, that any extended discussion
of the general rules of law applicable to them is not necessary, as these rules have been so often explained in our reported decisions. It is clear that valid claims should be
confirmed, and equally clear that those of a contrary character should be rejected. Tested by the rules of law established by this court in analogous cases, I am of opinion that
the claim of the appellants is invalid. The Mexican authority was overthrown in California on the 7th of July,
1846, but the history of the times made it clear to every
intelligent man for a considerable period before this date,
that the country would pass to the jurisdiction of the United
States. During this period grants of land were made very
freely by Pio Pico, the acting governor, and the records of
this court show that many of these grants were invalid and
fraudulent. Doubtless, grants were made by him within
that time which were valid, but all must agree, I think, that
every grant which bears his signature should be examined
with the most careful scrutiny. By the record in this case,
it appears that the petition for this grant is dated the 5th
day of May, 1846, and the grant, if any were made, was on
the following day, and did not comply with the requirements
of the law conferring power on the Governor of California
to grant lands. The Mexican law, to make a title valid,
required it to be evidenced by certain written instruments
which taken together constitute an expediente. The expediente, when complete (as decided by this court), consisted
of a petition, with a diseno or map annexed; a marginal decree referring the petition to a local officer to report whether
the land was vacant and grantable, and the petitioner a
proper person to obtain the bounty of the government; the
report of that officer on these subjects, called an informe;
the decree of concession and the copy or duplicate of the
grant, as the original was delivered to the petitioner. It
was in express terms required by the Mexican law, that the
petitions for lands; and the grants, with maps annexed,

HoRNsBY v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Davis, Clifford, and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

should be recorded.* It was insisted that the papers which
were produced in this case before the commissioners, constituted such an expediente, but if it be conceded the papers
are of Mexican authority, they do not contain any diseno or
map, or reference to the local officer, or his report thereon.
There could be no record of the petition and grant with the
map of the land granted, because no map of any kind was
annexed to the petition, and there is no evidence in the record that any part of the expediente was recorded as required
by Mexican law. Grants of this kind were made subject to
the approval of the departmental assembly, but there is
nothing to show an attempt, even, to comply with this requirement. On the contrary, there is every reason to conelude that it never was presented to that assembly, as it is
well known that therg were a large number of'grants made
about that time which were presented and approved, and as
this one was not approved, the inference is fair and reasonable that it was never presented for approval. It also ap.
pears that no judicial measurement of the land was made,
nor possession of it taken by the supposed grantees, as required by the Mexican law, and the conditions of the grant.
The documents offered in evidence are not shown by any
cornpetent'proof to be Mexican documents. The 'purt in
its opinion describes them as having been proddce from
the public archives, and this statement might create the impression that the expediente under consideration came from
the Mexican archives. This cannot be so, as the number
of the expediente proves beyond a doubt that it is one of
those papers found in the custom-house at Monterey the
latter part of the year 1847, or the fore part of the year
1848, which were stbsequently included in llartnell's Index.
This index is not, and never has been regarded as a Mexican document.t Since the decision 'of Castro's case,t this
court, until now, as I suppose, has adhered to the principle,
that whoever claims title to land in Califbrnia under a grant
* Knight's Case, 1 Black, 228.

$ 24 Howard, 349.

t Knight's Case, supra.

Dec. 1869.1

HORNSBY V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Davis, Clifford, and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

from a Mexican governor, must, as a general rule, produce
the grant and show that it came from the public archives of
laud titles in the proper office of that department, or that it
was found in Jimeno's Index, or that it was recorded in the
Toma de Razon. It is true, in that case, Chief Justice
Taney said that secondary evidenice could be received, when
it appeared that the grant had been properly made, and that
the papers, or some of them, in the office where they were
kept, had been lost or mislaid, but the court held, that a
party setting up a grant by such proofs, must also show that
there was a judicial survey of the land, and that the supposed grantees took actual possession of it, and exercised
acts of ownership over it, before the change of jurisdiction.
There are a number of cases in which the same rule is laid
down (some of earlier and others of later date than Castro's
case)., and it seems to me'they ought to control the decision
of this case,*
No possession of any kind is proved in this case, and the
authenticity of this grant, covering an area of over forty
thousand acres of land, depends on the testimony of a single
witness, unsupported by any proof, except the imperfect or
mutilated expediente, found among a mass of loose papers
on the floor of one of the rooms of the custom-house at
Monterey, after the Mexican officials had fled, on the approach of our forces.
Possession is essential in such a case to establish an equity,
and as none is proved, the claimant has no equity, and in my
judgment the decree ought to be affirmed.
"

The United States v. Cambuston, 20 Howard, 59; United States v.

Fuentes, 22 Id. 445; United States v. Bolton, 23 Id. 341

States, 1 Wallace, 660; United States v. Pico, 2 Id. 279.

White v. United

