Dec. 1870.]

Tim MABEY.

S419

Opinion of the court.

THE MABEY.
1. When a motion is made by an appellant to examine witnesses in this
court in an appeal in admiralty, the appellant should show some excuse
satisfactory to this court, for the failure to examine them in the courts
below, such as that the evidence was discovered when it was too late to
procure such examination, or that the witnesses had been subpmnaed
and failed to appear, and could not be reached by attachments, and
the like.
2. Hence, where, on such a motion, his affidavit stated only that the witnesses were material ones, without whose testimony he could not safely
proceed to the hearing, as he was informned and believed, and as he was
advised by his counsel after a full statement to him of the facts which
he expected to prove by the persons Whom it was proposed to examine,
the motion was denied.
ON motion. Atkins had libelled the steam tug Mabey in
the District Court at New York, for injury done by the
Mabey to a vessel of his, then in New York harbor. The
District Court decreed in his favcr, and the Circuit Court
affirmed the decree. The owner of the Mabey appealed to
this court; and Mr., T. M. Wheeler, in his behalf, now moved
the court for a commission to take further evidence to be
read in this court on the hearing. The affidavits on which
the motion was founded gave the names of several witnesses
represented as residing in New York and Brooklyn, and
swore that "they were material and necessary witnesses in
the action on behalf of the appellant, without the benefit of
whose testimony he could not safely proceed to trial, as he
is informed and believes, and as he is advised by his counsel therein, after a full and fair statement of the facts which
the appellants expect to prove by the said witnesses."

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
No excuse is shown in the papers, on which the motion is
founded, why-the witnesses named, and proposed to be examined,, were not examined in some one of the courts below
before the hearing there. The affidavit simply states that
the testimony of these witnesses is material, as advised by
counsel.

42-0

THE MABEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This is not in accordance with the practice of the court.
Some excuse, satisfactory to this court, should be shown for
the failure to examine them in the courts below, such as
that the evidence was discovered when it was too late to
procure such examination, or that the witnesses had been
subpoenaed and failed to appear, and could not be reached
by attachments, and the like.*
Many of the cases bearing on this subject are cases of
amendment in the appellate court by adding new allegations and giving new proof.t But they involve the practice applicable to motions simply to examine witnesses in
the appellate court. There can be no substantial amendment in this court; but if the pleadings or evidence are so
defective that no decree can be fbunded upon them, and the
vase appear to have merits, the court will reverse the decree
ana remand the cause to the court below with directions to
permit amendments and further proofs.1
It is quite apparent, if commissions were to be allowed by
this court to issue as a matter of course, on a formal application under the twelfth rule, without requiring any excuse
for not taking the evidence in the usual way before the
courts below, the privilege would be open to great abuse,
disturbing the orderly proceedings in courts of admiralty.
Instead of taking proofs in the cause in the courts below,
and there thoroughly trying it, much of the evidence could
safely be omitted, relying on the new evidence in this court.
There is no hardship upon the parties in guarding against
this abuse with great care and strictness, as they have two
opportunities to procure the attendance and examination of
the witnesses before they conic here on appeal: first, before
the District Court, and again before the Circuit.
MOTION DENIED.
-*

The Boston, 1 Sumner, 328, 331: Coffin v. J(nkins, 3 Story, 108; The

William, 7 Irish Jurist, 354; Jarvis v. Chandler, 1 Turner & Russell, 319.

t Parsons on Shipping, 2 vol., pp. 429, 430, 431, and note; Conklin's Admiralty, pp. 418, 419; Lamb v. Parkman (2d Circuit, per Curtis, J.), 21
Law Reporter, 589.
T Brig Caroline, 7 Cranch, 496-500; -Mary Anne, 8 Wheaton, 380.

