•MARSH

v. FULTON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ing the payment of-money, without an express delegation of
authority from the directors.*
Checks signed at the clearing-house and contracts for the
purchase and sale of New York funds are authorized by the
directors, and are sanctioned by usage, but cashiers have no
such authority to certify checks for third persons, which was
well known to the cashier of the plaintiff bank.
Associations organized under the ae of Congress to carry
on the business of banking are required by the express words
of the act to transact their usual business at an office or banking-house, located in the place specified in their organization
certificate,' and no individual officer ought to be allowed to
leave his bank and go elsewhere to make large contracts
without the instruction of the directors. Unless his power
in that behalf is limited to the established place of business
he may go wheiever he pleases for that purpose, and if he
certifies checks anywhere within the four seas of our continent, the bank is bound by his contracts. Stockholders and
depositors should take warning if such is the law, as the
National banks are liable at any moment to be overwhelmed
with pecuniary obligations, and involved in utter ruin.

MARSH V. FULTON COUNTY.
1. In February, 1853, the Mississippi and Wabash Railroad Company was
incorporated by the legislature of Illinois, and authorized to construct
a railroad from Warsaw, on the Mississippi Rivet', to the east line ofr
the State. In February, 1857, an act was passed by that legislature
amending the charter of the company, by which the line of the railroad
was divided into ihree divisions, designated as the Wesiern, the Central,
and the Eastern, and each division was created a new company; so that
there were three distinct corporations in place of the original corporation ;-Held, that a subscription of stock and issue of county bonds,
authorized upon a vote of the people of the county to the original corporation, couldnot be legally made to one of the three new corporations.
2. Where county bonds to a railroad company are issued without any
authority, they are invalid in the hands of an innocent purchaser.
United States v. Bank of Columbus, 21 Howard, 364.

Dec. 1870.]

MARSH

V. FULTON COUNTY.

Statement of the case.
The authority to contract must exist before any protection as innocent
purchaser can be claimed by the holder.
8. A ratification being in its effect, upon the act of an agent, equivalent to
the possession by him of a previous authority, and operating upon the
act ratified in the same manner as though the authority of the agent to
do the act existed originally, can only be made when the party ratifying possesses the power to perform the act ratified. Accordingly, where
supervisors of a county possessed no authority to make a subscription
or issue bonds to a railroad company, in the first instance, without the
previous sanction of the qualified voters of the county, they could not
ratify a subscription to the company already made without such authorization.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Illinois. The case was thus:
In 1849 the legislature of the State of Illinois passed h
act, which provided that whenever the citizens of any city
or county in that State were desirous that such city or county
should subscribe for stock in any railroad company already
organized or incorporated, or thereafter to be organized or
incorporated under any law of the State, such city or county
might and were authorized to purchase or subscribe for
shares of the capital stock in any such company, in any sum
not exceeding $100,000 for each of such cities or counties;
but that no subscription -should be made, or purchase or
bond issued, under the provisions of the act, whereby any
debt should be created, unless a majority of the qualified
voters of such county or city should vote for the same. The
act also required that the notices calling for the election
should specify the company in which stock was proposed to be
subscribed.
A law of the State of 1861 provided that the powers of a
county in Illinois could only be exercised by the board of
supervisors thereof, or in pursuance of a resolution by them
adopted,*
In February, 1853, the Mississippi and Wabash Railroad
Company was incorporated by the legislature of Illinois,
and authorized to construct a railroad from Warsaw on the
Mississippi River to the east line of the State.
Gross's Statutes of Illinois, 751.

MARSH

v.

FULTON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In September, 1853, the board of supervisors of Fulton
County, through which county the projected line of the road
was, to run, ordered that the question be submitted to the
voters of the county at the ensuing November election
whether the county should subscribe $75,000 to the capital
stock of this company, and a like sum to the capital stock
of the Petersburgh and Springfield Railroad Company, payable in the bonds of the county; such bonds not to be issued
to the former company until its secretary should certify to
the board that $700,000 had been subscribed to its stock
and 5 per cent. thereon had been paid. At the election
mentioned the vote was taken, and a'majority of the votes
of the county was cast in favor of the subscription.
In April, 1854, the board ordered its clerk to subscribe
the $75,000 voted to the Mississippi and Wabash Company,
and to issue the bonds when it should be certified to him by
the secretary of the company that $700,000 of the stock had
been subscribed and 5 per cent. thereon had been paid.
In September, 1855, a similar order was made by the
board, requiring its clerk to enter the subscription on the
books of the company in the name of the County of Fulton.
In February, 1857, an act was passed by the legislature of
Illinois amending the charter of thQ,Mississippi and Wabash
Coinpany, by which the line of the railroad was divided into
three divisions, designated the Western, the Central, and the
Eastern divisions, and each division was placed under the
management and control of a board of three commissioners,
to be elected by the stockholders of the division, and to be
invested with all the powers of the original board of directors of the company over the road in their division.
In April, 1857, the stockholders within the Central Division elected commissioners of the division, who thenceforth, until December, 1868, exercised all the powers conferred by this amendatory act.
Ou the books of the Central Division thus organized, the
clerk of the County Court of Fulton County, acting as clerk
of the board of supervisors of that county, made the subscription of $75,000 in the name df the county, and in Sep-

Dec. 1870.]

MARSH V. FULTON COUNTY.
Statement of the case.

tember following issued to this division the fifteen bonds
.which are in suit in this cause. These bonds purport to be
obligations of the County of Fulton to the Central Division
of the Mississippi and Wabash Railroad Company, and
pledge the fhith of the county, and its property, revenue,,
and resources for their payment.
The following is a copy of a bond and coupoD
$500.

"No. 11.
"UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
STATE OF ILLINOIS, COUNTY OF FULTON.

"Bond due in ten years after date.-Central Division, Mississippi and
Wabash Railroad Company.

"Know all men by these presents that there is due from
the County of Fulton to the Central Division of the Mississippi and Wabash Railroad Company,

OR BEARER,

five hun-

dred dollars, lawful money of the United States, with interest
at the rate of seven per cent. per annum, payable annually
on the first day of July in each year, at the treasury of said
County of Fulton, on the presentation and surrender of the
annexed coupons. The principal to be due and payable ten
years from the date hereof. For the performance of all
which the faith of the said County of Fqlton is irrevocably
pledged, as also the property, revenue, and resources of said
County of Fulton.
" In testimony whereof John H. Peirsol, clerk of the
County Court, has hereunto subscribed his name and affixed
the common seal of said County Court this 1st day of September, 1857.
[L. s.]

"JOnHN H. PEIRSOL,
'Clerk of the County Court."

-

$86.
STATE OF ILLINOIS.
"Bond No. 11.
"The County of Fulton will pay thirty-five dollars on this coupon on
the first day of July, 1859, at the treasury of said county.
"JOHN H. PIEIRSOL,

"Clerk of the County Court."

MARSH V. FULTON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

There were various acts of the board of supervisors of
Fulton County done after the issue of these bonds, which
tended to show that the board recognized them and considered the county bound for them.
Interest was on one occasion paid on .ome of the bonds
by the county treasurer, and the amount paid was allowed
to him by the board in settlement.
The records of the board, held on the 15th of September,
1857, showed the adoption of a report of the finance committee, estimating the amount required to pay the interest
on county bonds, " issued and to be issued" that year,. including county expenses and interest on railroad bonds, and
levying a tax to pay the same, with no reservation or exception as to these bonds.
At the same session the board appointed county agents.
hs t6 this railroad, and required them to attend the meetings of
stockholders, election of officers, and to represent the county "as a
stockholder." The clerk issued certificates of appointment to
the county.agents and they were paid by the county for
their services. At the session of March, 1858, the board
appointed a fiscal agent to manage the sinking fund on
"railroad bonds.;" and in the following September appointed
a committee to estimate the amount of money for the current year, required to pay interest on connty bonds "issued
for railroad purposes." The committee reported that $350
was needed to pay interest on $4500 of these bonds.
At the aessi6h of March, 1858, it was ordered that the
claim of OPaham, one of the agents of the county as to the
Mississippi and Wabash Railroad Company, for services as
such agent, be paid, and at the September session, 1859,
that the counity treasurer pay "the interest on the Fulton
bonds," and without any reservation of the bonds in'suit,
Qnd at the September session, 1860, that the countV treasurer
Iy all coupons presented prior to March, 1861, and from
June, 1861, purchase as many bonds, at not exceeding sixty
cents of the dollar, as the sinking fund would pay.
In September, 1865, the board paid two of the bonds at a
discount, protesting, however, against liability upon them.

Dec. 1870.]

MARSH V. FULTON

COUNTY.

Opinion of the court.

On the 13th of September, 1866, the board ordered payment of two mo'ie of the bonds in full, upon the recommendation of the finance committee, and their statement that
"they entertained no doubt that they ought to be paid," and the
bonds Were surrendered.
On the next day, however, the board, by order, reconsidered the vote ordering payment, and finally refused to pay
the bonds.
The present action was brought on fifteen bonds issued
by the clerk of the County Court of Fulton County, acting as
clerk of the board of supervisors of that county to the Central Division of the Mississippi and Wabash Railroad Company, and on the coupons annexed to said bonds.
The declaration contained special counts on the instru.
ments, and also the common counts. The defendants pleaded
the general issue, and judgment passed in their favor. The
plaintiff below brought the case here on writ of error.
Messrs. 0. H. Browning t.nd 0. C. Skinner, for plaintiff in
error, relied largely on the fact which they asserted, and
which they relied on as riot disproved, that the bonds were
in the hands of innocent holders for value; and that whether

regularly issued originally or not, they had been ratified by
the county in so many different ways, so advisedly arid so
unequivocally, that irregularity could not now be set up.
Mr. S. Corning Judd, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions .presented for our consideration are, first,
whether the bonds issued by the clerk of the County Court
of Fulton County to the Central Division of the Mississippi
and Wabash Railroad Company were, at the time of their
issue, valid obligations of the County of Fulton; and, second;
if not thus valid, whether they have become obligatory upon
the county by any subsequent rtifciation.
Were they valid when issued? The answer depends upon
the law of Illinois then in force. The clerk of the County
Court possessed no general authority to bind the county.

MARSH V. FULTON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

He was a mere ministerial officer of the board of supervisors;
and that body was equally destitute of authority in this particular, except as the law of Illinois gave it. That law
authorized any county of the State, and, of course, its supervisors, who exercised the powers of the county, to subscribe
stock to any railroad company in a sum not exceeding one
hundred thousand dollars, and to p'ay for such subscription
in its bonds, provided such subscription was previously sanctioned by a majority of the qualified voters of the county at
an election called for'the expression of their wishes on the
subject, and it prohibited any subscription or the issue of
any bonds for such subscription without such previous sanction. "1No subscription shall be made or purchase bond
issued by any county," says the law, "unless a majority of
the qualified voters of such county . . . shall vote for
the same." And the law further requires that the notices
calling for the election "1shall specify the company in which
stock is proposed to be subscribed."
These provisions furnish the answer to the first question
presented. The only subscription authorized by the voters
of Fulton County was that to the Mississippi and Wabash
Railroad Company, and one to the Petersburgh and Springfield Company. The Central Division of the Mississippi
and-Wabash Railroad Company was a different corporation
from the original company. It has been so held by the
Supreme Court of Illinois in a case involving the consideration of a portion of the bonds in suit and the remaining
sixty thousand dollars of bonds of the original subscription.
The amendatory act of 1857 dividing the road into three
divisions, and subjecting each division to the control and
management of a different board, clothed with all the powers
of the original board, so far as the division ias concerned,
worked a fundamental change in the characLer of the original corporation, and created three distinct corporations in
its place. A subscription to a company whose charter provided for a continuous line of railroad of two hundred and
thirty miles, across the entire State, was voted by the electors
of Fulton County; not a subscription to a company whose

Dec. 1870.]

MARSH V. FULTON COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

line of road was less than sixty miles in extent, and which,
disconnected from the other portions of the original line,
would be of comparatively little value.
But it is earnestly contended that the plaintiff was an
innocent purchaser of the bonds without notice of their invalidity. If such were the fact we do not perceive how it
could affect the liability of the County of Fulton. This is
not a case where the party executing the instruments possessed a general capacity to contract, and wliere the instruments might for such reason be takenwithout special inquiry
into their validity. It is a case where the power to contract
never existed-where the instruments might, with equal
authority, have been issued by any' other citizen of the
county. It is a case, too, where the holder was bound to
look to the action of the officers of the county and ascertain
whether the law had been so far followed by thern as to
justify the issue of the bonds. The authority to contract
must exist before any protection as an innocent purcbaser can
be claimed by the holder. This is the law even as respects
commercial paper, alleged'to have been issued under a delegated authority, and is stated in the case of Floyd Acceptanees.* In speaking of notes and bills issued or accepted by
an agent, acting under a general or special power, the court
says: "In each case the person dealing with the agent, knox%ing that he acts only by virtue of a delegated power, must,
at his peril, see that the paper on wh-ich he relies comes
within the power under which the agent acts. And this applies to every person who takes the paper afterwards; for it
is to be kept in mind that the protection which commercial
usage throws around negotiable paper cannot be used to
establish the authority by which it was originally issued."
It is also contended that if the bonds in suit were issued
without authority their issue was subsequently ratified, and
various acts of the supervisors of the county are cited in
support of the supposed ratification. These acts fall very
far short of showing any attempted ratification even by the
7 Wallace, 676.

MARSH V. FULTON COUNTY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

supervisors. But the answer to them all is that the power
of ratification did not lie with the supervisors. A ratification is, in its effect upon the act of an agent, equivalent to
the possession by him of a previous authority. It operates
upon the act ratified in the same manner as though the
authority of the agent to do the act existed originally. It
follows that a ratification can only be made when the party
ratifying possesses the power to perform the act ratified.
The supervisors possessed no authority-to make the subscription or issue the bonds in the first instance without the previous sanction of the qualified voters of the county. The
supervisors in that particular were the mere agents of the
county. They could not, therefore, ratify a subscription
without a vote of the county, because they could not make
a subscription in the first instance without such authoriza-tion. It would be absurd to say that they could, without
such. vote, by simple expressions of approval, or in some
other indirect way, give validity to acts, when they were
directly in terms prohibited by statute from doing those acts
until after such vote was had. That would be equivalent to
saying that an agent, not having the power to do a particular Act for his principal, could give validity to such act by
its indirect recognition.*
We do not mean to intimate that liabilities may not be
incurred by counties independent of the statute. Undoubtedly they may be. The obligation to do justice rests upon
all persons, natural and artificial, and if a county obtains
the money or property of others without authority, the law,
independent of any statute, will compel restitution or compensation. But this is a very different thing from enforcing
an obligation attempted to be created in one way, when the
statute declares that it shall only be created in another and
different way.
We perceive no error in the record, and the judgment of
the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
AniFIRM D.

]cCracken v. City of San lFrandisco, 16 California, 624.
M

