Dec. 1869.]

STIMPSON V.

WOODMAN.

Statement of the case.

STIMPSON V. WOODMAN.
Where a roller in a particular combination had been used before without
designs on it,. and a roller with designs on it had also been used in another combination, it was not a patentable invention to place designs on.
the roller in the first named combination. Such a change, with the
existing knowledge in the art, involved simply mechanical skill, which
is not patentable.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts
Woodman sued Stimpson, in the court below, t6 recover
damages for an infringement of a patent granted on the
29th March, 1864, for "a new and useful machine for ornamenting leather," as stated in the letters patent. In the
specification the plaintiff stated that he has "invented a new
and useful improvement in boarding or pebbling leather,"
and describes how this process was formerly carried on.

He says:
"What is known as a boarded or pebbled grain or finish, has
hitherto been given to leather by what is called the boarding
operation, which consists in doubling the skin over on to itself
on a table, so that the flesh side shall be out, and then forcing
or rucking one part over the other, in different directions, by
means of a flat ' cork-board,' which breaks or wrinkles the grain,
and gives it a rough, checkered, or pebbled appearance. This
operation is performed by hand, and is very slow and laborious,
and produces only one particular kind of finish."
He then observes:
"The nature of my invention, therefore, consists in producing
this ' pebbled' or ' boarded' grain or finish on leather, by subjecting it to the pressure of a short revolving cylinder or roller
of steel, or other suitable metal, having the required design or
figure engraved or sunk on its periphery. . . . My improvement
further consists in combining with shid roller a certain new and
useful combination of mechanical devices for carrying my invention into practical operation, so as to accomplish the object
desired with great rapidity and cheapness."

STIMPSON V. WOODMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

He further observes:
"It is obvious that my 'pebbled' roller maybe combined with
various mechanical devices, whereby it can be rolled with sufficient pressure over a skin of leather. I will, however, now
describe a combination of devices which I find to answer every
purpose required."
The plaintiff then describes with great minuteness the
machine, and every part of it, and closes with his claims:
"First. Boarding or pebbling skins or leather by means of a
single short cylinder rolling over a table with the requisite
pressure, substantially as described.
'Second. I also claim raising and lowering the table ' A' by
means of the toggles ' Q,' arm ' 8,' spring ' U,' arm 'T,' and cam
P,' or their equivalents, substantially as set forth, and for the
purposes described."
The second claim was not in the case, as the arrangement
or contrivance was not found in the defbndant's machine.
The -first was the only one in question. That, as already
stated, was "boarding or pebbling" skins or leather by
means of a single short cylinder rolling over a table with
the requisite pressure, substantially as described, which
means, as this court stated that they understood the claim,
finishing or figuring the leather, by means of a revolving
roller, the design or figure engraved or sunk on its periphery, and worked over the grain of the leather by the use
of the machinery described, or by machinery substantially
like it.
It was admitted, in the bill of exceptions, that evidence
was given on the trial, by the defendant, tending to show
that prior to the plaintiff's invention, boarded or pebbled
grain or finish, described in his patent as produced by him,
had been produced on leather by subjecting it to the pressure
of a short revolving cylinder of steel or other metal, having
the required design or figure engraved or sunk on its pe-.
riphery, and rolling over a table upon which the leather was
placed; and that the said revolving figured cylinders, which

Dec. 1869.]

STIMPSON V. WOODMAN.

Statement of the case.

are known iu the case as "pebbling rollers," were operated
requisite pressure by means of hand dcvices.
with
It the
was also admitted that the defendant gave
evidence
tending to show that prior to the plaintiff's improvement
there was known and used a machine (made by one Green)
which, in its substantial combination or arrangement of its
parts, co-operating together for the purpose of impressing
the surfaec of leather, differed in no material respect from
the machine described in the letters patent, whereof a model
was produced, except in respect to the mechanism for raising
and lowering the table (not in the defendant's machine),
and except that instead of operating a short revolving roller
like the plaintiff's, having a figured surface for the purpose of producing the pebbled grain on leather, it operated
a short revolving ectallic roller, having a smooth surfhce,
for the purpose of giving to the leather a closer natural
grain; that this was the only diversity between the two
machines; and that having the smooth roller instead of the
roller with the ornameinted surface, made no difference in
the substantial combination or arrangement of machinery
co-operating together in said machines for the purpose of
doing the work.
On this case- the defendatit asked the court to instruct the
jury as a second instruction, thus
"If they find that the form of the surface of the rollers in the
plaintiff's machine is not material to the mechanical action of'
the roller in combination with the other devices, and their airrangements, by which the roller is moved, the leather supported,
and the pressure made; and if they find that before the plaintiff's invention a machine wa known and used not differing
substantially from the plaintiff's machine in any other re-,
spect, but having a roller for giving a finish to leather, the surface of which roller was different from that specifically shown
and described in plaintiff's patent; and if they find that, before
the plaintiff's invention, rollers having such a surface as the
plaintiff's, substantially, were known and used ih other machines for the same purpose, the plaintiff's patent for the first
claim is void."

STIMPSON V.

WOODMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This was refused, and the jury found in favor of the plaintiff. The other side now brought the case here.

Messrs. B. R. Curtis and G. L. Roberts, for the plaintiff in
error; Mr. Wakefield, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
Taking the evidence as stated in the bill of exceptions, it
will be seen that the only difference between the prior machine and the plaintiff's, in its combination and arrange-

ment, and in its working and effect upon the leather, is that
the metallic roller in the former had a smooth, and in the
latter a figured surface. In all other respects the two machines were the same. But, as also appears in the bill of

exceptions, -this figured revolving roller was old, and the
use of it in pebbling leather was also old and well known.
Neither the plaintiff nor the defendant could claim aly right
to it as inventors. The same pebbled grain or finish, as
described in plaintiff's patent, had already been produced
on leather by subjecting it to pressure while rolling over the
table on which the leather was placed. But this pressure
was produced by means of hand devices. The field of invention was open to any person to construct new devices or

machinery by means of which to operate this old instrument
in "pebbling leather"-in the language of the patentee in
this case, "so as to accomplish the object desired with
greater rapidity and cheapness." And this the plaintiff
would have accomplished by his machine if he had not been
anticipated. But the case admits that evidence was given
tending to show that the device or machine he has patented
for the purpose, so far as used by the defendant, was the
same as the Green machine, which was prior in date.
The prayer for the second instruction to the jury prayed
for by the defendant is somewhat involved and obscured by
too much verbiage; but when analyzed and understood, it
was clearly warranted and supported by the evidence, and

should have been given.

In substance it is, if the jury

should find that the figured roller in the plaintiff's machine

Dec. 1869.]

STIMPSON V. WOODMAN.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

was not material to the mechanical action of the roller in
the combination and arrangement of *the machinery by
which it was moved, the leather supported, and the pressure
made; and if they find that before the plaintiff's a machine
was known and in use similar to his, except that the surface
of the roller was smooth; and if they find that before the
plaintiff's invention figured rollers were known and used
in other machines for the same purpose, then the plaintiff's
first claim was void. In other words, and, in short, if the
plaintiff's machine had been anticipated in every part of
its construction except the figures or designs on the roller,
which roller was old, he was not entitled to recover. This
instruction was refused, which, for the reasons already stated,
we think was error.
There is, also, another ground upon which we think this
instruction should have been given. Assuming the p4aintiff
to have been anticipated in the construction of his machine
in every part of it, except that the prior machine used a
smooth revolving roller, and the plaintiff a figured one, but
which figured roller had been used for pebbling leather by
pressure, and was well known, all of which the jury would
have been warranted in finding, the engraving or stamping of
the figure upon the surface of the smooth roller, or the substitution of the old figured- roler for the purpose, required no
invention; the change with the existing knowledge in the art
involved simply mechanical skill, which is not patentable.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

VENIRE DE NOVO.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting.
Inventions secured by letters patent are property, and as
such they are under the protection of the Constitution of the
United Stites and the laws of Congress. When duly secured
in that way the patentee acquires the exclusive, right, if the
invention is a machine, to make and use the same and to
vend it to others to be used during the entire term for which
it was granted, as provided by law. Vested with that exclusive right he may have an action on the case to recover
damages against any person who infringes his exclusive

122

STIMPSON V.

WOODMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

right; and on the trial of the case, to the jury he may introduce his letter's patent in evidence, and when so introduced
the letters patent afford a prirnafacie presumption that the
patentee is the original and first inventor of what is therein
described as his improvement; and the defendant, if he
denies that, proposition, takes the burden to establish the
affirmative of the general issue or of the notices filed in that
behalf.*
Letters patent bearing date the twenty-ninth of March,
1864, were granted to the plaintiff for a new and useful improvement in boarding and pebbling leather, which, as described, consists in giving to the surface of the leather a
checkered or pebbled appearance by subjecting the leather
on the finished side to the pressure of a short, engraved
revolving cylinder or roller, made of steel or other suitable
metal, having the required design or figure engraved on the
periphery of the device. My improvement, says the patentee, consists in conining with said roller a certain new and
useful coinbation of mechanical devices for carrying my
invention into practical operation, so as to accomplish the
object desired with great rapidity and cheapness.
Nothing can be plai~ier than is the meaning of those two
passages in the specification, the substance of whici is here
reproduced. In the first passage he describes the result or
effect which his invention will produce, and in the second
he gives a terse general description of the invention itself,
alleging that it consists in combining with the roller a certain new and useful combination of devices to accomplish
the work. Had the patentee stopped there the specification
might perhaps have been regarded as wanting that full, clear
and exact description of the invention which is required by
the sixth section of the Patent Act.t
But the patentee did not stop there, as fully appears by
what immediately follows in the specification. On the contrary, he gives a minute 4escription of the roller, and then
proceeds to describe the several mechanical devices to be
* Agawam Co. v. Jordan, 7 Wallace, 596.

t 5 Stat. at Large, 119.

:Dec. 1869.]

STIMPSON V. WOODMAN.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

combined with the roller, and which, as he says, will answer
every purpose to produce the required effect; and in conclusion he gives a minute description of every element composing the organized machine described in the patent as it
was issued.
Exact description is also given of the several devices conposin'g the apparatus for raising and lowering the table on
which the leather is placed as it is subjected to the operation
of the pebbling instrument. Such an apparatus is essential
to the effective operation of the machine, as the table must
be raised in order that the leather may be subjected to the
pressure of the roller or pebbling instrument as it passes
over the upper surface, and it must also be lowered in order
that the arm to which the pebbling instrument is attached
may pass back, and it is obvious that the contrivance is
ingenious and useful.
What the patentee claims is as follows: First, boarding
or pebbling skins or leather by means of a single short cylinder rolling over a table with-the requisite pressure substantially as described. Striking out the words substantially as
described, it might be contended that the claim is for the
effect and not for the means by which the effect is produced,
but such a construction cannot be maintained for a moment,
as it would be contrary to'the settled rules of law everywhere applied in such cases.
Patents for inventions are not to be treated as mere monopolies, and therefore as odious in the law, but they are to
receive a liberal construction, and under a fair application
of the rule that they be construed ut res magis valcat quam.
pereal. Hence where the claim immediately follows the description, it may be construed, says Curtis, in connection
with the explanations contained in the specification, and be'
enlarged or restricted accordingly.*
Qonstrued in riew of that rule, it is clear to a demonstration that the first claim of the patent is for the. 'means described in the specification for accomplishing the effiet,
225; Turrill v. Railroad, 1 Wallace, 510; Ryan v.
Goodwii, 3 Sumner, 520.
(jtjis
u
on Patents i

STIMPSON

V.

WOODMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

which is the exact view taken of the claim by the presiding
justice in the court below.
Strike out the second claim and it might be contended
that the first claim covers the whole invention, including
the apparatus for raising and lowering the table as well as
the combination of devices for pebbling the leather, but the
whole specification must be construed together, and when
so construed it is clear that the claims were intended to be
distinct, as the second claim not only specifies the "raising
and lowering of the table," but it also includes by name
every one of the described devices to perform that office.
Giving due weight to these considerations, it is as clear
as anything can be that the first claim of the patent is a
claim for a combination of the described mechanical devices, with the roller for carrying the invention into prac-

tical operation, and for accomplishing the described result
by the described means, excluding the apparatus for raising
and lowering the table, which is included in the second
claim.*

Influenced by these considerations I dissent from the
opinion of the court, because it adopts an erroneous construction of the patent, and one utterly at variance with the
whole tenor of the specification and the language of the
claim.
Some attempt was made at the trial to show that the invention of the plaintiff was superseded by the machine of
Garnar, or by that of Green, but the attempt was an utter
failure, and the jury found the issue in favor of the plaintiff.
Questions of fact are certainly for the jury, and it is too
plain for argument that the finding of the jury cannot be
revised here under a bill of exceptions. Suppose, however,
it were otherwise, still it would be impossible to come to
any other conclusion than that their finding is right.
Take the Gartnar machine, which is the first in order as
the evidence is exhibited In the bill of exception. Evidence
was introduced by the plaintiff, showing not only that the
machine differed from the machine of the plaintiff, but that
Le Roy v. Tatham, 22 Howard, 132.

Dec. 1869.]

STIMPSON V. WOODMAN.
Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

it operated in a substantially different manner, and produced
a substantially different effect upon the leather, -which must
be obvious, upon comparing the two machines, to every one
having any acquaintance with the subject. Equally decisive
evidence Was also introduced by the plaintiff showing that the
Green machine did not supersede his patent. Among other
things the plaintiff proved that the figuring instrument described in that patent was not a revolving instrument, but an
instrument for rubbing the leather, as appears by the model;
that the adaptation of the pebbling roller to that machine, so
that the same could be practically used therein, would require
invention and was not within the common knowledge and
skill of a mechanic, and that a figured, rotating cylinder,
such as is described in the plaintiff's patent, had not in fact
been introduced and operated in that machine prior to the
plaintiff's invention.
Remark upon the question of infringement is not necessary, as. that issue was found by the jury for the plaintiff, and
there is no exeeption calling for any review of the instructions given by the court.
Suggestion is made in the opinion just read that perhaps
the judgment mightbe reversed upon the ground that the
invention was not patentable.* Patented inventions which
are not new and useful, or which did not require any invention as compared with what exhisted,-and was in use before,
may doubtless be held invalid on that account, but the question whether a particular invention is new and useful, or
whether it did require any invention to produce it, as compared with what existed before, are everywhere admitted
to be questions of fact for the jury, and certainly no such
question is open here for the determination of this court
under this bill of exceptions.t Such a remark cannot have
been well considered, as the authorities are all the other
way; but if it were otherwise the bill of exceptions, shows
* Many v. Jagger, I Blatchford, 872; Wilbur v. Beecher, 2 Id. 132.

j- Curtis on Patents, 41; Lowell v. Lewis, 1 Mason, 182; Winans v.
Railroad, 2 Blatchford, 297; Bedford v. Hunt-, 1 Mason, 302; Hall v. Wiles,
2 Blatchford, 194.

STiMPSON V. WOODMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

that the finding of the jury was right, as it appears that the
pebble finish can be made cheaper and better by the plaintiff's machine than by any other machine or instrument
known in the trade, which is a complete answer to both
suggestions.
Valuable as the property of the plaintiff in this invention
is, I cannot concur in the judgment which assigns it to ai
infringer. Most modern patents are for new combinations
of old elements, just like the present one, but many of them
are of great utility, and they are as much within the protection of the patent law as those of any other class.* Such
patents being for the combination only, no one can beheld
liable for infringing the invention unless it be shown that
the infringer uses all of the elements which compose the
combination, showing that the public have the most ample
security that nothing will be protected by the patent except
what was in fact invented by the patentee.t
Where, an invention is for distinct combinations which
are separable, and where it embraces two distinct improvements, one having respect to the operative part of the machine and the other to the motive power, it is entirely
competent for the commissioner to grant separate claims
for the two combinations in the same patent, or he may,
under existing laws, grant separate patents for each combination, if it is new and produces a new and useful result.
Two combinations are embraced in this patent: one consisting of a combination of certain described mechanical
devices with, the roller to do the work of pebbling the
leather, the other consists of the described combination to
raise and lower the table; and the one last named is admitted to be new and useful, and therefore valid, but the
opinion of the court surrenders the first one to infringers,
and of course the property of the inventor is rendered of no
value.
* Union Sugar Refinery v. Matthiessen, 2 Fisher, 605.,

- Prouty v. Ruggles, 16 Peters, 341; Carver v. Hyde, lb. 620; Stimpson v. Railroad, 10 Howard, 346; Barrett v. Hall, 1 Mason, 477; Howe V.
Abbott, 2 Story, 194.

