Dec. 1869.]

THE

SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.
Syllabus.

to say that we have reconsidered the grounds of that decision, and are still satisfied with it.
It follows that, upon the whole case, our decree must be
for the complainant as to the bonds claimed by llardenberg.
STRONG and BRADLEY, JJ., bad not yet taken their
seats when this case was adjudged.

THE

SCHOOLS v. RSLEY.

1. Calls for the Mississippi River in deeds or conveyances from one private
individual to another private individual for lots in-St. Louis do not
give or create riparian rights in the grantees.
2. The eastern boundary of the corporation of'St. Louis of 1809, and the
eastern' line of the out-boundary of December 8, 1840, both extend to
the middle of the main chaniel of the Mississippi River.
8. A street or tow-path or passway or other open space permanently established for public use between the river and the most easte~n row of lots
or blocks in the former town of St. Louis,.when it was first laid out, or,
established, or founded, would prevent the owners of such lots or blocks
from being riparian proprietors of the land between such lots or blocks
and the-river. But this would not be true of a passage-way or tow-path
kept up at the risk and charge of the proprietors of thQ lots, and following the changes of the river as it receded or encroached, and if the inclosure of the proprietor was advanced or set in with such recession or
encroachment.
4. The act of June 13, 1812, reserving certain lands for the benefit of the
public schools of St. Louis, does not reserve lands made by accretion to
lots on the river which were inhabited, cultivated, and possessed by
persons at the time of the cession of December, 1803, and till the already
mentioned act of June 13, 1812.
5. A concession which would have effect to bind a person when claiming
under it and when it relates to one. piece of property, has no efftct when
the person does not claim under it and when it relates to another.
6. Where the instructions given to the jury are sufficient to present the
whole controversy to their consideration, and they are framed in clear
and unambiguous terms, it is no cause for the reversal of a judgment to
show that one or more of the prayers'for instruction presented by the
losing party and not given by the court were correct in the abstract.
7. The map known as Chouteau's map in the office of the record of land
titles at St. Louis is not evidence conclusive upon questions of the extent
of lots in that town. But it may go to a jury with other evidence.

THE SCHOOLS V.

RISLEY.

[SUP. Ct.

Statement of the case.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri,
the case being this:

The city of St. Louis, as is known, is situated on the west
side of the Mississippi River and faces the stream. It was
'fornmed by the French and Spanish in times as early as
1764; and passed to the sovereignty of the United States
by the cession which France made December 20, 1803, of
the large region then known as the province of Louisiana.
French subjects being already in possession of various rights
throughout the town, Congress by statute of 1812 enacted
that "the rights, titles and claims to those town 6r village
lots, out-lots, common field lots and commons, in, adjoining,
and belonging to the towns which had been inhabited, cultivated or possessed, prior to the 20th of December, 1803,
should be, and the same were thereby, confirmed to the
inhabitants of the town according to their several right or
rights in common thereto." The act proceeds, in its first
section:
"And it shall be the duty of the principal deputy surveyor
of the said territory to survey the out-boundary lines of the said
town, so as to include the out-lots, common field lots and commons thereto belonging. And he shall make out plats of the
surveys, which he shall transmit to the surveyor-general, who
shall forward copies of the said plats to the commissioner of the
General Land Office and to the recorder of land titles. The expense of surveying the said out-boundary lines shall be paid by the
United States."
The second section of the act provided that " all town lots,
out-lots or common field lots included in such surveys, which
were not rightfully owned, or claimed by any private individuals, or held as commons belonging to such towns and
villages, . . . should be reserved for the support of schools."
In 1803, and indeed till the year 1844, there was a street
running nearly parallel to the Mississippi River and within
less than two hundred feet of it (the river rather eating into
the bank, year by year), known as Second Street, or some-

THE SCHOOLS V. IRISLEY.

Dec. 1869.]

Statement of the case.

times (in its extension), Prairie-a-Catalan or Carondelet.
On the east side of this street, a' block of ground, No. 44,
ran eastward-ran, therefore, towards the river or to it; but
whether "towards" only or " to" was a matter of dispute.
On the north side of this block, for many years prior to the
cession of 1803, one Madame Charleville had been settled,
inhabiting and cultivating it; and on the south side, a free
negro, named Charles Leveille.
In 1844, an extraordinary flood in the Mississippi River
brought down such an immense quantity of saud that the
river edge, which had previously, as above said (though apparently with some irregularities herein), kept itself within
less than 200 feet of Second Street, now was left 600 or. 700
feet away from it. The diagram will illustrate sufficiently
the facts:
Lombard Street (now).

Madame Charleville's
Lot.•

.

'>

o,,s

0

Charles Leveille's

a>

Lot.

Land in controversy
in No. 27.

0

o Land in controversy
114
in No. 28.

0

Hazel Street (now).,

W-

I -E

The result was that the city caused to be extended down
to the new edge of the river those streets (Hazel and Lombard) which, running at right angles to the old stream, formerly met it at their extremity; and it made a new street

THE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

(New Main Street) parallel to old Second Street.
will be better understood from a diagram:

The idea

Lombard Street.

No. 44.,

No. 856.

...~r
.....
Hazel Street.

A new block (No. 856) was thus formed out of the alluvion, immediately in front of old 44, the block formerly
occupied by Madame Charleville'and Leveille. To whom
did this new block belong?
That was the question in this case. And as the riparian
owper, whoever he might be, took the accretions, the answer depended obviously enough on the fact whether the
old block (No. 44) had run down to the river or whether it
had stopped.short of the river, leaving a strip not owned by
any private person, and which, therefore, either belonged to
the city itself or else was property of the. United States, and
under the act of 1812, was reserved for the public schools.
In this state of facts the directors of the public schools
.of St. Louis brought ejectment, in one of the State courts,
against a certain Risley, who had succeeded to the rights
of Madame Charleville, and also against Fritz, who had
succeeded to the rights of Leveille, to
recover the block.
The former case (No. 27 on the docket) is here reported; it
being understood that.the latter case (No. 28) should follow
any decision given in the other.
THE PLAINTIFF, relying on the act of 1812, introduced a

Dec. 1869.]

TH1 SCHOOLS v. RISLEY.
Statement of the case.

large amount of documentary evidence, and among other
concessions one to a certain Louis Ride, and a confirmation
of it, with a survey of the same by the surveyor-general.
According to this survey, the claim was located in the northwest corner of block No. 44 and extended eastwardly no
further than 150 feet. He introduced also several plots of
the town, among them especially one known as Chouteau's
map, with the opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri
given in the case of St. Louis Public Schools v. Erskine.* In
that case, where apparently objection had been made to the
reception of the map at all, the court said:
"The first question that arises in this case is the propriety of
the action of the Land Court in admitting in evidence the plat of
the town of St. Louis, placed in the office of the record of land
titles by Auguste Chouteau in the year 1825. The plat was
made in 1764, about the period that the village of St. Louis was
founded, Chouteau is reputed as one of the founders of the
village. The recorder of land titles, who had been in the office
since 1837, testified that it was a public paper and as such had
been inventoried. Auguste Chouteau has been dead many
years. Mr. Geyer testified that he had seen the plot in the
recorder's office several times; that this map was produced in
a case he tried for the schools twenty-four or twenty-five years

ago.
"When we consider that in matters of public concern, traditionary evidence is admissible as to boundaries, we are at a
loss to conceive the ground on which the objection to the evidence is based. Chouteau was not the ow.ner of the land on
'which the vill ge was laid out, nor does it appear that he had
any previous authority to do the act. But his conduct and that
of his colleagues, in laying off the town, was sanctioned and
adopted by the Spanish government. For many years the map
has been placed in the public office where all the papers and
documents relating to the early land titles in this territory were
deposited. It has been exposed to the examination and scrutiny
of all, so that its errors might have been detected. The map
was made at a time and in a manner which show that its execution could not have been prompted by any sinister motive.
31 Missouri, 112, 113.

THE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.

" We know that it has frequently been in use in this court, to
show the plans and extent of the ancient village as originally
laid out by its founders. For such purposes, when all the circumstances attending this map are considorcd, it is not easy to
conceive mere satisfhctory evidence of facts of so ancient a date.
If authority is wanted, in support of this view of the subject, it
may be found in th6 cases of Morris v. The Lessees of Harmer's
Heirs (7 Peters, 560), and The Commonwealth v. Alburger (IWharton, 469)."
Chouteau's plat represented the place thus;
broad strip between block No. 44 and the river:

leaving a

THE DEFENDANT, On the other hand, introduced a concession by. the Spanish governor, dated Mareh 1,, 1788, to
the negro Leveille, for a lot in St. Louis of 60 by 150 feet,

D e. 1869.]

THE.SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

97

Statement of the case.

described in the concession as bounded on the one side by
the heirs of Louis Ride, on the, other by his Majesty's domain; on the rear by the Mississippi, and on the main front
by the road which follows from the second main street to
the Prairie-h-Catalan.
He also introduced a concession by Governor Manuel
Perez to Augustin Amiot, dated S'eptember 2, 1788, of a
lot in the southern part of St. Louis, described in the concession as " 120 feet front by 150 feet deep, bounded on the
north side by the lot of the free negro called Charles, on the
other side by the royal domain, on the rear by the Mississippi,
and on its principal front by the royal road leading to the
P~airie-A-Catalan."
BOTH PARTIES introduced parol evidence tending to show:

On the defendant's side, that in Spanish times the lots ran
to the river ; that there was never any street between the
east end of the lots and the river; that the ends of the
fence would sometimes have to be moved back on account
of the abrasion or falling in of the river bank; that the
river, for some years prior to 1844, occasionally slightly receded from the east bank, in low water, but that in consequence of high water in 1844, and of accumulations caused
by the materials used in constructing cross streets-out in the
river, the ground afterwards increased rapidly eastwardly.
On the plaintiff's side the parol evidence tended to prove
that there was always a path or road between the lots and
the river, in Spanish times, and that the road extended the
whole length of the town; that the government always left
a strip of land along the river for voyagers, but that the
road along the river was repaired by the voluntary act of
the people living along the road and not by public authority
or public taxes.
TIin DEFENDANT gave in evidence a resolution of the board
of aldermen of the city of St. Louis, authorizing a survey
and map of the city, and a lithographic copy of a map known
as Paul's map of 1823, which was proved to be a, true copy
of the original made under such resolution. It was admitted
that the field-notes of the survey and the original map were
VOL. X.

7

THE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

[Sup. C~t.

Statement of the case.

lost. From this map it appeared that the main street extended at the date of the map no further south than Plum
Street, and that the river covered all the eastern part of
Block 44. The defendant then introduced the ordinance of

the city, passed in 1851, -opening Main Street south of Plum
and through Block 44, and proved that defendant, in con-

Dec. 1869.]

THE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.
Statement of the case.

formity with the ordinance, relinquished the right of way;
also a tax sale of the lot of Leveille for the city taxes of' the
year 1820. The certificate of sale of the assessment describe
the lot as bounded east by the river.
The defendant also .showed in evidence the tax receipts
for his real property for the years 1837, 1838, 1839, 1845,
1846, 1847, 1848, 1849, 1853, 1854, 185.5, 1856, 1857. From
these receipts, it appeared that up to 1853 the defendant was
taxed for a lot in Block 44, as bounded on the east by the
river. The depth or the lot was described as increasing from
150 feet in 1837 to 800 feet in 1854. In 1854 and following
years the defendant was taxed for the property in dispute
as lying beween Main and Front Streets. The defendant
also showed that he had been assessed by the city, and
bad paid in 1854 a tax on the property in question for opening streets, and then introduced a map of Risley's Addition,
recorded in 1855.
The defendant then introduced one Marshall as a witness,
who testified that he was an examiner of titles to lands; that
he had examined almost all titles to lands in the city of St.
Louis, and he gave it as his conclusion, that the land of
Ride was north of Elm Stree.t, that is to say, was nowhere
in the neighborhood of Madame Charleville's lot, but was
in fact in a differe.t and distarlt part of the city. He also
read in evidence a deed of Tayon to Papin in 1832, in which
the lot was described as bounded eastwardly by the Mississippi River, or street if any there be; also the deed of Papn
to Stearne and Risley, containing the same bbundaries; also
the deed of Stearne to Risley in 1836, with the same boundaries.
There was much other testimony on both sides, but that
above stated constituted the controlling parts, and the residue was merely auxiliary or cumulative.
Upon this case the plaintiff's counsel asked the court to
give fourteen instructions, the purpose of which, in the general, and so far as insisted on here, was to charge the jury
'as to the effect in law of the evidence; and that the plan of
the town by Chouteau should be taken as a conclusive

'IHE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

muniment of title.*

tions.

The court gave none of these instruc-

But it did instruct the jury in eflect,

FOR THE PLAINTIFF:

1. That calls for the river, in the deeds or conveyances
read in evidence, from one private individual to another, did
not give or create riparian rights.
2. That the eastern boundary of the corporation of St.
Louis of 1809, and the eastern line of the out-boundary of
December, 1840, both extended to the eastern boundary of
Missouri, which is the middle of the river.
3. That if the jury-believed that a street, tow-path, or
passage-way, or other open space, was permanently established, for the public use, between the river and the most
eastern row of blocks (of which 44 was one) when the town
was founded and laid out, then that the owners of that block
were not riparian proprietors of the land between .the block
and the river.
FOR

THE DEFENDANT:

1. That if the jury believed that the original claimant,
prior to the cession, inhabited; cultivated, and possessed the
land described in the petition, claiming title to the same,
and that she and those claiming title under her continued
to inhabit, cultivate, and possess the premises to the passage
of the act of 1812, and that the land in controversy is a
part of the accretions made to that lot along the eastern line
extending to the river in its present position, then that the
verdict must be for the defendant.
2. That the evidence that a passage-way or tow-path existed along the river bank would not affect the rights of the
parties if the jury found that the same was kept up at the
charge and risk of the proprietor of the lot, and-that it followed the changes of the river, going to the east or west as
the river receded from or encroached upon the lot, and that
The reader interested specially in the case, can see these fourteen instructions in the report of the case below, 40 Missouri, 358.

Dec. 1869.]

THll SCHOOLS V.

RISLEY.

101

A-rgument for the schools.

the inclosure of the proprietor was advanced or set back
with such changes.
8. That the claim confirmed to Louis Ride could not affect
the rights of the parties, if the jury found that the claim was
located on a different block from that of Madame Charleville.
The jury found for the defendants, and judgment having
been entered accordingly and afterwards affirmed in the
Supreme Court of Missouri, the case was brought here
under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Messrs. M. Blair and F. A. Dick, for the plaintiff in error:
The court refused to instruct the jury for the plaintiff as
to the effect of evidence, but left the case to the jury on
their construction of it. It refused to give any effect in law
to the plan of the town made by Chouteau, and to the confirmations and surveys by the United States of the lot in
question, fixing the extent and boundaries of the lot, and
treated the case as one to be left exclusively to the opinion
of the jury on the weight of the parol evidence against 'the
documentary evidence. In fact, the court left the jury to
treat testimony of witnesses as of more effect than all the
documentary proof offered by the plaintiff; and, indeed,
allowed the record title of the plaintiffs to be overturned by
oral testimony which did not conflict with it.
Now it is matter of common knowledge that there is, in
the public archives, in the recorder's office and surveyorgeneral's office, in St. Louis, and in the land office here, full
evidence of the establishment of St. Louis as a Spanish
town, with streets and blocks, public places, and lots used
for cultivation, called common fieldilots, and town lots, and
barn lots. There were public authorities, who regulated
streets, commons, bridges, and all general matters.*
What had been public property when the town plan of
Chouteau was settled upon in 1764 for the common use of
the town, descended to the public when the country was
ceded in 1803; and even though in 1812 the land which
*

See Mackay v. Dillon, 4 Howard, 480; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 412.

THE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the schools.

embraced the lot in controversy was under water, yet, if by
the plan of the town there was a margin of public ground
in front of this block, and this block had by such plan an
actual bound-nry on a line in common with the blocks further
north, then such public plan must control the private property, and such public space is the actual limit of the blocks
and the lots composing them.
If there ever was a vacant public space reserved for common use as a landing or street by the public plat in front of
these lots, such as marked on Ch6uteau's map, the public
title would not pass to private lot-owners, even though the.
encroachments of the river might wear away that part of
the soil above water. The river bottom within such lines
would remain still subject to the same title. N(w, Chouteau's map is an ancient document which establishes the
line of this Block 44 in the relative position that it occupied
in 1764 with reference to the blocks north of it, and we thus
canl certainly fix the precise line of the front of Block 44 as
indicated on Chouteau's map, and as it was in 1764. The
blocks to the north, remaining as they were in 1764, and
giving a uniform and permanent front line to the old town
where they lie, thus serve to fix the precise position of such
front line of Block 44. Now the block there in 1764 had a
front line not touching the river, and there was this same
public wharf that then and still exists tothe north, extending along the entire front of the town. It was by Chouteau's map actual ground above the surface of the water.
This was public property, established by a title-paper of conclusive effect, if admissible at all.
The question, then, of controlling importance
is, whether
Chouteau's map and the other documentary evidence was
evidence of what was the plan of the town, showing the
blocks, streets, and lines of public and private property.
This depends upon the construction of the act of 1812.
This act required the United States surveyor " to survey
the' out-boundary lines of said towns so as to include the
out lots, common field lots, and commons;" and he was
directed to make out plats of the surveys, and transmit the

Dec. 1869.]

THE SCHOOLS v. RISLEY.
Argument for the schools.

same to the commissioner of the General Land Office and
recorder of land titles. The expense "of surveying the said
out-boundary lines shall be paid by the United States."
Section 2d says that all town lots "included in such surveys,
which are not-ri'ghtfully owned by private individuals, are
reserved for the support of schools."
This act is in all its provisions binding upon individual
owners, and they must take their titles subject to the survey
it calls for; what it reserved to the United States was, and
continued to be, public land, and the surveys it required
became, when made, muniments of title.*
By the construction of the act of 1812 given by the defendant, a public survey of a reservation which the President
might have chosen to make out of the public lands of St.
Louis, would not prevail over verbal proof of title such as is
offered here. This is contrary to the whole current of decisions of this court respecting surveys of grants of land
made under the laws providing for such grants.t
A grant of title, that Congress reserved the power to
locate by survey, and promises to so locate, is not available
as a title, if the very same act be interpreted to mean that
such location, when made, may, at any length of time, be
overthrown by parol evidence. This places the plaintiff's
title at the mercy of a single witness; for the act of Congress
provides for no other evidence of title in the plaintiff; and
we see the effect of this construction of the law in practice
when a jury decides in support of the views of the court
below, against the survey, on the recollection, perhaps, of
one single witness, testifying to what years before he thought
as to the description of the premises.
The possibility that a regular survey and assignment, of
the validity and effect given to this by this court in Kissell's
case,T can be overthrown by the recollections of a child as to
a matter that perhaps he had the slightest means of observ* Kissell v. Public Schools, 18 Howard, 21.

t West .v. Cochran, 'i6 Howard, 403; Willot v. Sandford, 19 Id. 71;
Carondelet v. St. Louis, 1 Black, 179; Menard v. Massey, 8 Howard, 318.
. I Supra.

THE SCIOOLS V. RISLEY.

,[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the schools.

ing, and not become material until he was perhaps eighty
years of age, shows a construction of this act by the court
below contrary to good sense, to security of titles, and to the
current of decisions of this court.
The surveyor-general, under the act of 1812, was charged
with a duty that he then could readily and accurately perform, and this was to 'gather together all the archives and
documents which had been before the boards of commissioners, and were recorded in the recorder of land title's
office, and determine where the different kinds of property
were located. The Spanish concessions were open to him,
Chouteau's map, and all that could furnish him with information; and also innumerable intelligent witnesses, including the large landowners, the proprietors of large tracts of
land, the members of the boards of commissioners, who had
investigated officially all these public fhcts' In the light of
all these investigations, Chouteau's plat was filed in the recorder's office, and no error in it has ever been pointed out.
It is from such material as all this that the assignment to the
schools is made up. On this material the surveyor-general
was made a special judge, and it was for him to. ascertain
and decide what was public land and what niot, and in Kissell v. Schools,* this court say: " We are of opinion that the
certificate of the surveyor-general . . . is record evidence of
tile," &e.
It could have been consistent only with the rulings of this
court to have declared that this survey was authoritative and
conclusive against another title under the same act, not sustained by a survey.
The defendants, to avoid this result, attempt to prove
another plan of the town,[ by showing that the street along
the rear of their lots shifted east and west as the river receded or encroached. But the little plassage-way spoken of
by the witnesses was not the public space marked on Chouteau's map. The court below made the decisive question
of fact the nature of this little pass-way as it was within the
*118 Htoward, 25'.

t Paul's map of 1823; supra, p. 98.

Dec. 1869.]

THE SCHOOLS v. RISLEY.
Argument for the private claimant.

knowledge of the witnesses. But this was turning attention
to a small and almost immaterial matter, and excluding the
public space shown by Chouteau's map, which established
the character of the land, from the jury.
The vivd voce testimony of old witnesses proved nothing
contradictory of the map and record offered by us, but only
the fact within their recollection, which was nearly, if not
altogether, after 1803, that the land above water did not
reach as far cast as the east line of Block 44. If, therefore,
the jury believed the testimony of these witnesses, they
would find for the defendant, notwithstanding they might
believe that, far east of the water-line, on the plan first
established for the town, there was a public wharf reserved
permanently for public use.
There was a direct and irreconcilable contradiction between the instructions given for plaintiff and defendant.
An instruction declaring on, the proof that, as a matter of
law, the lots did not rightfully extend across this public
wharf, under the act of 1812, ought to have been given.
Mr. J. J. Ganit, conlra
if the fact that the river was the boundary of the lot in
1803, carried the owner of it to the medium filum aqu e, the
lot, up to the middle thread of the stream, was confirmed by
the first section of the act of 1812. This was the whole
matter in dispute in this cause. And the case lies within
ordinary and narrow limits. The instructions given were
proper on this question.
The plaintiff assumes that the authorities of the Spanish
government had a fixed and ascertained plan for laying off
the town of St. Louis in 1764, and that this plan was not
only immutable, but that a paper called "Chouteau's map,"
which was first filed in the office of the recorder of land
titles, in St. Louis, in 1825, was the authentic, exclusive,
and infallible evidence of this scheme. These assumptions
are unwarranted. If we accept Chouteau's map as the
scheme or plan for laying off the town of St. Louis, which
he recommended to the authorities in 1764 (we have no sort

106

THE SCHOOLS

V. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of authority for assuming that he ever did this), nothing is
plainer than that one of two things must be true: either
Chouteau did not, in making this sketch, go upon the ground
and ascertain carefully whether natural obstacles interfered
with the plan sketched in his diagram; or else he attempts
to make these natural obstacles bend to his theory of what
the town should be. Chouteau was not proprietor of the
land to be covered by the town, nor an officer of the crown
of Spain, in 1764, when this plan is supposed to have been
made. We see plainly that the Spanish governor did not
pay any attention to this plan. Either he never heard of it,
or, knowing of it, he treated it as worthy of no heed; for
the grant to Leveille, the grant to Amiot, and the possession
of many others, permitted by the authorities, were inconsistent with Chouteau's plat. The refused instructions declared that the presumption of fact was that the Spanish
government sanctioned a particular plan of St. Louis;
whereas, the only evidence we have on the subject proves
clearly that all the limitations of the supposed scheme were
disregarded by the Spanish government. Chouteau's map
was deposited by Chouteau, in 1825, in the recorder's office.
There is no certificate upon it by him. Its character, whatever it was, must have rested upon Chouteau's parol statement, without any sanction of either an oath or official duty.
We do not know what his statement, if any, was. But whatever it was, it could be no more than a mere statement,
which is admitted as tradition. If the instructions refused
should have been given, it would follow, amoiig other things,
that the general plan of a town may be proved by parol, but
that particular deviations from that plan cannot be proved
by parol.
The whole instructions'given are consistent, and were the
right ones.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Possession of the colony or province of Louisiana, ceded
by France to the United States under the treaty of cession

Dec. 1869.]

Tiix SCHOQLS vi

RISLEY.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

of the thirtieth of April, 1803, was formally delivered to the
United States on the twentieth of December of that year;
and on the thirteenth of June, 1812, Congress passed the
ct making further provision for settling the claims to land
in the Territory of Missouri, the first section of which provides to the effect that the rights, titles and claims to town
or village lots, out-lots, common field lots and commons in,
adjoining and belonging to the several towns or villages
therein named, including St. Louis, in that Territory, "and
which have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed" prior
to the date of that formal delivery, " shall be and the same
are he'eby confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective
towns or villages aforesaid, accordihg to their several right
or rights in common thereto."*
Lands confirmed by the board of commissioners were not
included in that section, and the further provision is that
the principal deputy surveyor of the Territory shall survey
or cause to be surveyed and marked, where the same has
not been legally done, the out-boundary lines of the said
towns or villages, so as to include the out-lots, common field
lots, and commons thereto respectively belonging.
Provision having been made in the first section for snch
surveys, the second section provides that all town or village
lots, out-lots, or common field lots included in such surveys,
which are not rightfully owned or claimed by private individuals or held as commons belonging to such towns or villages, or selected by the President for military purposes,
" shall be and the same are hereby reserved for the support
of schools in the respective towns or villages aforesaid," not
to exceed, however, one-twentieth part of the whole latds
included in such general survey.
Part of block numbered eight hundred and fifty-six, situated in the city of St. Louis, is claimed by the plaintiffs in
this case under the second section of that act, as appears in
the description of the tract set forth in the petition, which
is in the nature of an action of ejectment to recover posses2 Stat. at Large, 748.

THE

SCHOOLS v. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

sion of the premises. Process was duly issued and served,
and the defendant appeared and filed an answer in which
he denied th'at the plaintiffs, at the commencement-of the
suit, were entitled to the immediate possession of the same,
and he also denied that he, the defendant, did, at the time
mentioned, unlawfully withhold from the plaintigs the possession thereof as alleged in the petition.
Application for change of venue was subsequently made
by the plaintiffs, and the cause, in pursuance of such application, Was transferred into the St.'Louis Circuit Court,
where the parties went to trial, and the verdict and judgment
were for the defendant, and the plaintiffs excepted and removed the cause into the Supreme Court of the State.
Subsequent to the removal of the cause into the Supreme
Court the defendant deceased and his legal representatives
became parties to the suit, and after hearing, the judgment
of the Circuit Court of the State was hi all things affirmed,
and the plaintiffs sued out a writ of error under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act, and removed the cause into
this court.
By the bill of exceptions it appears that the plaintiffs in
the trial before the jury in the Circuit*Court of the State
introduced the following evideoces of title in support of
their claim to the immediate possession of the premises:
(1) A. copy of the ordinance dated November '9,1809, incorporating the town of St. Louis. (2) Survey and plat of the
boundary of the town, which purport to have been made in
conformity to the requirements .of the first section of the
before-mentioned act of Congress. (3) School assignment
numbered four hundred, and dated December 10, 1855, as
more fully set forth in the transcript. (4) An act of the
State legislature, approved November 23, 1857, which it is
agreed may be read from the printed volume. (5) Copy of
the deed from the city of St. Louis to the plaintiffs relinquishing to them the land in controversy. (6) Quit-claim
deed from the plaintiffs to, the city of St. Louis relinquishing their title to certain tracts therein specified. (7) An act
of the legislature of the State, approved March 3, 1851, en-

Dec. 1869.]

THE

SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

titled "An act respecting swamp lands in St. Louis County."
(8) Three acts of Congress upon the subject, to wit, the act
passed June 18 1812, also the.act passed May 26, 1824, and
the act passe(! January 27, 1831, to which reference is made.*
(9) A stipulation waiving objections to certain depositions,
and. agreeing that the defendant was in the possession of the
premises at the commencement of the suit.
Separate examination of the respective evidences of title
introduced by the plaintiffs will not he necessary, for two
reasons: (1) Because the defendant concedes that -the as'signment of the land to the schools under the act of May 26,
1824, vested a good title'in the plaintiffs, unless the title. to
the same was confirmed by the first section of the prior act
to those under whom the defendant claims a superior title.
(2) Because the' questions to be determined are presented in
the exceptions to the refusals of the court to give the instructions as requested by the plaintiffs and to the instructions
given by the court to the jury.
Both parties agree that the land in controversy adjoins
block forty-four, which belongs in part at least to the defendant and is not claimed by the ' laintiffs. They also
agree that prior to 1844 block forty-four was the front block
facing the river, and that the land of the entire block in
controversy has been formed since that time by alluvial deposits, but the theory of the plaintiffs is that block foityfour, as originally located and marked on the -plan of the
town, never extended to the river, that there was in fact a
margin of shore between that block and the river, which
was reserved for public use as a way for voyagers or a towpath for persons engaged in propelling boats, and that such
way or tow-path never was a part of the block possessed
and claimed by the. defendant and his associates.
Suppose the fact to be so, then it is not pretended by the
defendant that the land described in the petition was confirmed by the first section of the act of June 13, 1812, but.
he denies the entire theory of the plaintiffs and insists that
* 2 Stat. at Large, 748; 4 Ibid., 656,435.

110

THE SCHOOLS v. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

there never was any such public reservation between the
block possessed and claimed by him and the river, as is supposed by the plaintiffs; that the use of the supposed margin
by voyagers and other persons as a way or tow-path, if any,
was permissive and by consent of the owners of the block,
and that the block as laid out, inhabited, cultivated and possessed was always understood to extend to the river, and
consequently that the same was confirmed by the first section of the before-mentioned act of Congress, as contended
by the defendant.
Conceded, as the fact is, that the title to block forty-four
was in those under whom the defendant claims, prior to the
alluvial deposits which formed the land described in the
petition, the principal contest in the State court was and
still is as to the extent and boundaries of that block antecedent to the time when the land in controversy was formed
by such alluvial deposits and accretions. Beyond doubt,
block forty-four, if it was inhabited, cultivated, and possessed prior to December 20, 1803, as claimed by the defendant, was confirmed by the first section of the act of
June 13, 1812; and if it extended to the river at that time
it is clear that the owners thereof were riparian owners;
and if so, it is equally clear that they were entitled, as such
to'all the accretion thereto occasioned by alluvial deposits
or by the gradual recession of the waters of the river from
the usual water-mark.*
On the other hand, unless that block extended to the
river, as supposed by the defendant, it is certain that he has
no title to the land-in controversy, as those under whom he
claims in that state of the case were not riparian proprietors,
and the act of Congress referred to as confirming the title to
that block could not and did not have the effect to enlarge
its boundaries.t
Evidence, written and oral, was introduced by the defendant to show that the northern half of block forty-four
* Kissell v. The Schools, 18 Howard, 21.

t Railroad v. Schurmeir, 7 Wallace, 287 ; 3 Kent's Commentaries, l1th
ed. 427.

Dec. 1869.]

THE SCHOOLS v. RISLEx.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

was inhabited, cultivated, and possessed by Madame Charleville and her children several years before the treaty of cession was ratified, and the witnesses testify that there was a
house and barn on the lot and*other improvements, and that
it extended to the river. She and her family occupied and
cultivated the northern half of the block, and the witnesses
also testify that it was fenced in on all sides excepting the
side bordering on the river, and the evidence to that effect
is full and satisfactory. They admit, however, that there
was a passage-way on the shore or bank of the river kept
by the owner for her own convenience, where people used
to pass as on a street or alley, but they generally agree that
it was not a public way, and that it was frequently interrupted
by fences built by the owner of the premises.
Parol evidence was also introduced by the defendant, showing that Charles Leveille inhabited, cultivated, and possessed
the southern half of that block prior to the ratification of
the treaty of cession, and the defendant introduced the original concession to him of that part of the block, dated March
1, 1788, and also a translation of the same, and the proofs
show that his lot was sixty by one hundred and fifty feet, and
that it was inhabited, cultivated, and possessed by the donee
of the tract some eight years before the date of the concession.
As there described, the lot is "bounded on one side by
the land of Louis Ride, on the other by His Majesty's domain,
on the rear 'by the Mississippi, and on the main front by
the road which follows from the second main street to the
Prairie-A-Catalan." He also introduced a concession from
the governor to Augustin Amniot, dated September 2, 1788,
of a lot in the southern part of St. Louis, described in the
concession as follows, to wit: " 120 feet front by 150 feet
deep, bounded on the north side by the lot of the free negro
called Charles, on the other side by the royal domain, on the
rear by the Mississippi, and on the principal front by the
royal road leading to the Prairie-A-Catalan." Other exhibits
were also introduced by the defendant as fully set forth in
the record, and the parties agreed that Prairie-h-Catala
and Carondelet, as used in the record, mean the same thing.

THE ScHOOLS V. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Defendant also introduced a resolution and ordinance of
the city, adopted in 1823, in relation to the survey of the
city, and also a lithographic copy of the map made by the
city surveyor in accordance with that ordinance; also the
revised ordinances of 1843, concerning streets. Proof was
also introduced by him to show that the original map was
lost and that the copy was correct, and it appears that it was
put in evidence to show that Main Street, at that date, extended no further south than Plum Street, and that the
eastern part of block forty-four, as now claimed, was a part
of the bed of the river.
By the record it also appears that the defendant introduced
a tax sale of the lot occupied by the colored man, Charles
Leveille, for the non-payment of the taxes for the year 1826,
and the assessment shows that the lot was therein described
as bounded east by the river. Tax receipts for ten or fifteen
years, given for the taxes paid by the defendant, as assessed
on his property, commencing in the year 1837 and ending
in the year 1857, were also introduced by the defendant,
and it appears that prior to the year 1853 he was taxed for
a lot in block forty-four, described as bounded on the east
by the river.
Rebutting evidence, written and oral, was then introduced
by the plaintiffs, tending to show that there was a public
passage-way or street between block forty-foar and the river,
and that no part of that block ever extended easterly beyond
that passage7way. Chouteau's map is one of the written
evidences referred to as having been introduced by the
plaintiffs, and they insisted, and still insist, that their title
to the land in controversy is conclusively shown by that
document.
When the plaintiffs rested, the defendant was permitted
to rejoin, and he introduced new evidence to show that the
block as originally inhabited, cultivated, and possessed did
extend to the river, and that there never was any such public passage-way or street as that described by the plaintiff's
witnesses.
Both parties resting, instructions were given by the court

Dec. 1869.]

THE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

to the jury, first at the request of the plaintiffs, and secondly
at the request of the defendant, but the finding of the jury
was adverse to the plaintiffs, affirming the theory of the defendant, that there was not any such public passage-way or
street between the river and block forty-four, as is supposed by the plaintiffs, and that the block referred to, as
originally located, did extend to the river, as claimed by the
defendant.
Five instructions presented by the plaintiffs were given
by the court to the jury as requested, and three presented
by the defendant were also given without any qualification,
but the plaintiffs presented at the same time fourteen other
prayers for instruction which were refused by the court.
Reference is made to therecord for the precise form of the
instructions as requested and given or refused, as they fill
too much space to be reproduced without abbreviation.
Those given at the request of the plaintiffs are in substance
and effect as follows: 1. That calls for the river, in the
conveyances read in evidence, do not give or create riparian
rights. 2. That the eastern boundary of the city and the
eastern line of the out-boundary, as read in evidence, extended to the middle of the channel of the river. 3. That
if the jury believe from the evidence that a street, tow-path,
or passage-way, or other open space, was permanently established, for the public use, between the river and block fortyfour when the town was founded and laid out, then, and in
that case, the owner or owners of that block were not riparian
proprietors of the land between that block and the river.
Two other instructions were given at the request of the
plaintiffs, but they are omitted as not material in this investigation, because they are the same in principle as those
already reproduced.
Instructions were then given to the jury as requested by
the defendant, which are in substance and effect as follows:
1. That if the jury believe from the evidence that the original
claimant, prior to December 20, 1803, inhabited, cultivated,
and possessed the land described in the petition, claiming
title to the same, and that she and those claiming title under
voI. x.

8

THE SCHOOLS v. IRISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

her continued to inhabit, cultivate, and possess the premises
to the passage of the act of June 13, 1812, and that the land in
controversy is a part of the accretions made to that lot along
the eastern line extending to the river in its present position,
thn the plaintiffi cannot recover, and the verdict must be
for the defendant. 2. That the evidence that a passage-way
or tow-path existed along the river bank will not affect the
rights of the parties if the jury find from the evidence that
the same was kept up at the charge and risk of the proprietor of the lot, and that it followed the changes of the
river, going to the east or west as the river receded from or
encroached upon the lot, and that the inclosure of the proprietor was advanced or set back with such changes. 3.
That the claim confirmed to Louis Ride cannot affect the
rights of the parties if the jury find from the evidence that
the claim was locatel in another and different block from
that inhabited,.cultivated, and possessed by Madame CharleVille.
Obviously the third instruction given at the request of the
plaintiffs is in substance and effect the same as the first instruction given at the request of the defendant, and it is
clear that those instructions fairly presented the whole merits
of the controversy to the jury as it is exhibited in the pleadings and evidence.*
No attempt is made by the plaintiffs to call in question
the instructions given at their own request, nor could they
be permitted to do so if the attempt was made, as such
errors, if any, are to be imputed to the party making the
request rather than to the court.t
They do insist, however, that the instructions given at the
request of the defendant are inconsistent with those given
at their request, but the court, after having carefully examined and compared the respective instructions referred
to, is of the opinion that the proposition finds no support in
the record.
" The Schools v. Risley ct al., 40 Missouri, 865.
t Buie v. Buie, 2 Iredell, 87.

Dec. 1869.]

THE ScRo-Ls v. RISLEY.
Opinion of the court.

Where the instructions given to the jury are sufficient to
present the whole controversy to their consideration, and
they are framed in clear and unambiguous terms, it is no
cause for the reversal of a judgment to show that one or
more of the prayers for instruction presented by the losing
party and not given by the court were correct in the abstract, as the refusal of the court to give the instructions as
requested, under those circumstances, would not work any

injury to the party making the request, and therefore cannot
be regarded as error.*
Apply that rule to the present case and it is not necessary
to add another observation in respect to the prayers for instructioll presented by the plaintiffs, and which were not
given by the court. Certainly the instructions given, as
well those given for the plaintiffs as those given for the defendant, are clear and unambiguous, and they expressly con-,
cede that the plaintiffs must recover if ,block forty-four was
bounded on the east by a street, passage-way, or tow-path,
which is all that the plaintiffs now ask, if the case is one to
be submitted to the determination of a jury. They contend
that Chouteau's map is conclusive in their favor, but the
court is of a different opinion, anid accordingly affirms the
correctness of the other branch of the instructions, in which
the jury were told that their verdict must be for the defendant if they found from the evidence that there was no such
street, passage-way or tow-path between that block and the
river, and that the river, when the town was laid out and
when the act of confirmation was passed, constituted the
eastern boundary of that block.t
Suffice it to say, without pursuing the argument further,
that the court is of the opinion that the instructions were,
in all respects, proper, and that they were clear and unambiguous, and amply sufficient to enable the jury to dispose
Law v. Cross, 1 Black, 586; Hall v. Hall, 6 Gill & Johnson, 886.
t Jones v. Soulard, 24 Howard, 41; Smith v. Public Schools, 80 Missouri,
801; Le Beau v. Gaven, 87 Id. 556; Dovaston v. Payne, 2 Smith Leading

Cases (6th Am. ed.), 248.

116

THE SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the whole controversy as exhibited in the pleadings and
evidence.*
Complaint is also made by the plaintiffs that the court
erred in not regarding Chouteau's map as a muniment of
title conclusive in their favor; but the court is of the opinion
that the view taken Of it by the State court is correct, and
that it was properly regarded as evidence of title, and not
as a muniment of title conclusive in itself, and that as such
it was regular to submit it to the jury with the other evidence
introduced by the parties. Neither party can justly complain,
as the action of the court in giving the instructions was in
accordance with their respective requests.
Ejectment was also brought by these plaintiffs in the same
court, at the same time, against Mary Fritz, to recover possession of the southern part of the same block. Before trial
the venue was changed, as in the preceding case, to the same
Circuit Court, where the parties went to trial, and the verdict
and judgment were for the defendant or her legal representatives. Appeal was taken by the plaintiffs to the Supreme
Court of the State, and the judgment in that court was
affirmed. They then removed the case into this court,
where it is numbered twenty-eight on the calendar, and it
was argued and submitted to the court here at the same
time with the case just decided. Since that time it has been
carefully examined, and it should b.e remarked that the facts
of the case are in many respects different from the case just
decided, but the differences are not of a character to affect
the iresult in this court, and as both parties. agree that the
decision of the case must follow that in the preceding case,
it is not thought necessary to point out those differences.
DECREE IN EACH CASE AFFIRMED.

* Savignac v. Garrison, 18 Howard, 136; New Orleans v. United States,
10 Peters, 662; Railroad Company v. Schurmeir, 7 Wallace, 287.

