HANNAUER V.

WOODRUFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement and opinion.

HANNAUER V. WOODRUFF.
Where, on a certificate of division from a Circuit Court, this court is equally
divided in opinion, the case will be remitted to the court below for the
purpose of enabling it to take such action as it may be advised.

ON a certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas,
The case was thus:
Woodruff made and delivered to Hannauer, at Memphis,
Tennessee, on the 22d of December, 1861, a promissory note,
dated that day, for $3099, with interest.
The only consideration of this note was certain bonds
issued by an ordinance of the convention which attempted
to carry the State of Arkansas out of the Federal Union, by
what is called the secession ordinance.
These bonds were issued for the purpose of supporting
the war levied by the insurrectionary bodies then controlling
the State of Arkansas against the Federal government, and
were styled " War Bonds" on their face, and the purpose of
their issue was well known to both parties to the note.
The bonds had at the time of the transaction a value not
much below their par value on their face, say ten per cent.,
at Memphis and in Arkansas.
The war bonds received by Woodruff were not used, or
intended to be used, by him in support of the war aforesaid.
. On these facts two questions of law arose on which the
judges of the circuit were divided in opinion, to wit:
1st. Was the consideration of the note void on the ground
of public policy, so that no action could be sustained on it
in the Federal courts?
2d. If the bonds were a sufficient consideration to sustain
the action, what was the measure of damages?
The case was submitted on a brief of Mr. Garland,for the
plaintiff, Hannauer; no counsel appearing contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON announced the judgment of this

Dec. 1870.]

IN RX PASCHAL.
Statement of the case.

court, to the effect, that it being equally divided in opinion
upon the questions, the case would be remitted to the court
below for the purpose of enabling that court to take such
action therein as it might be advised; this direction being in
conformity, the learned justice observed, with the opinion of
the court in Silliman v. The Hudson River Bridge Company.*
ORDER ACCORDINGLY.

IN RE PASCHAL.
1. The attorney or solicitor, who is also counsel in a cause, has a lien on
moneys collected therein for his fees and disbursements in the cause,
and in any suit or proceeding brought to recover other moneys covered
by the same retainer.
2. A motion to pay into court the moneys collected will not be granted,
but the parties will be left to their action, if the attorney is guilty of
no bad faith or'improper conduct, and has a fair set-off against his
client, which the latter refuses to allow.
8. A party has a general right to change his attorney, and a rule for that
purpose will be granted, leaving to the attorney the advantage of any
lien he may have on papers or moneys in his hands as security for his
fees and disbursements.
THESE were two motions on George W. Paschal, an attorney and counsellor of this court, and as such lately representing the State of Texas in suits which it had here. The
first motion being in the case of that State against White,
Chiles and others (No. 4 on the original docket), already
largely reported; the second, in the case of the same complainant against Peabody & Co. (No. 6 on that same docket),
not yet in any way adjudged.
In the first of the cases the motion was for an order on
Paschal to pay to the clerk of this court, for the benefit of
the State of Texas, the sum of $47,325 in gold, alleged to
have been received by him under the decree in the first of
the two cases above mentioned. In the other (the suit
* 1 Black, 582.

