566

LIVERPOOL INS. Co. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

We answer that the present case relates to transportation
on the navigable waters of the United States, and we are
not called upon to express an opinion upon the power of
Congress over interstate commerce whenyarried on by land
transportation. And we answer further, thlat we are unable
to draw any clear and distinct line betveen the authority
of Congress to regulate an agency employed in commerce
between the States, when that agency extends through two
or more States, and when it is confined in its action entirely
within the limits of a single State. If its authority does not
extend to an agency in such commerce, when that agency is
confined within the limits of a State, its entire authority
over interstate commerce may be defeated. Several agepcies combining, each taking up the commodity transpoi4ed
at the boundary line at one end of a State, and leaving it at
the boundary line at the other end, the Federal jurisdiction
would be entirely ousted, and the constitutional provision
would become a dead letter.
We perceive no error in the record, and the decree of the
AFFIRMED.
Circuit Court must be

LIVERPOOL

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MASSACHUSETTS.

1. A corporation created by one State can only exercise its corporate franchises in another State by tie comity of the latter.

2. A joint stock association, which by its deed of settlement in England
and certain acts of Parliament is endowed with the faculties and powers
mentioned below, is a corporat -in, and will be so held in this country,
notwithstanding the acts of Parliament ir accordance with a local policy

declare that it shall not be so held. These faculties and powers are:
1. A distinctive artificial name by which it can make contracts.
2.. A statutory authority to sue and be sued in the name of its officers
as representing the association.
8. A statutory recognition of the association as an entity distinct
from its members, by allowing them to sue it and be sued by it.
4. A provision for its perpetuity by transfers of its shhres, so as to
secure succession of membership.:
8. In this country the individual responsibility of the shareholder for the
debts of the association, is not incompatible with the corporate idea.

Dec. 1870.]

LIVE.POOL iNS. Co. v. MASSACITUSETTS.

567

Statement of the case.
4. Such corporations, whether organized under the laws of a State of the
Union or a foreign government, may be taxed by another State, for
the privilege of conducting their corporate business within the latter.

ERRoR to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts;
the case being this:
A statute of the State just named imposes upon "each
fire, marine, and fire and marine insurance company, inCorporaled or associated under the laws of any government or
State other than one of ihe United States, a tax of 4 per
cent. upon all premiums charged or received on contracts
made in this commonwealth for insilrance of property."
The same statute imposes a tax of but 2 per cent. upon such,
premiums when the company is incorporated under the laws
of any one of the United States other than Massachusetts;
upon which premiums, where the company is incopporated
by itself, it imoses but 1 per cent.; while no tax is imposed
by the laws of the State upon the business of insurances
tranacted by any natural persons citizens of the same.
With the enactment just mentioned on its statute-book,
the State of Massachusetts, in 1868, filed a bill ii its Supreine Judicial Court. against the Liverpool ahd London
Life and Fire Insurance Company (a company doing a large
business in that State), to collect a tax of 4 per cent. on its
premiums upoo contracts made in Massachusetts for insurance of property, and to restrain the company from doing
further business till the tax was paid. The company set up
that it was not "incorporated" at all, but was an association,
under the laws of Great I)ritain, of natural persons, some
of whom were citizens and residents of the country just,
named; and some citizens and residents of the State of New
York; formed for the purpose of condubting the business of
insurance under certain deeds of settlement, and having the
legal character of a partnershipj that accordingly it could Uot
be taxed as a " company incorporated under the laws of an r
government or State other than one of the United States;"
while, in so far as the discriminating tax of 4 per cent. was
sought to be laid against it as a company associated simply
and not incorporated, it violated, in regard to the members

568

LIvERPooL INs. Co. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the company who were subjects of Great Britain, a provision in the treaty of 1815, between that country and the
United States, by which it is agreed that the merchants and
traders of each nation respectively shall enjoy the most complete protection and security for their coumerce; and-in regard
to the citizens of New York, that provision in section 2,
article 4, of the Federal Constitution which secures to the
citizens of each State all the privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several States.
Of course, if the company was a corporation, the defence
failed: and it not being denied that the persons composing
the company were British subjects, with certain citizens of
New York with rights like theirs, the first question-and the
only one if it was resolved affirmatively-was whether the
company was a corporation or not.
The company had been originally formed, in May, 1836,
in Liverpool, by a " deed of settlement."
This instrument, as far as it could be done without the aid
of Parliament, established a company under the name of
" The Liverpool Life and Fire Insurance Company," with
a capital of £2,000,000 sterling, which was divided into
100,000 shares of £20 each, and declared its purpose to be
making insurance on life and against fire. These shares
could be sold and transferred, and executors and administrators represented them in the company on the death of the
owner. If, by the laws of the association, a share became
forfeited, the owner was released from all further liability
to the company. The business of the company was to be
conducted by a board of directors exclusively, and they could
make by-laws and change and modify them. There was a
covenant that suits might be brought by or against the company in the names of one or more directors, which should
bind the stockholders, and that no stockholder would plead
in abatement the nonjoinder of the others; and it was further covenanted that a' judgment so obtained against a
director might be made out of the property of any of the
stockholders. Numerous other provisions were found in
the originad articles, which consisted of over a hundred see-

Dec. 1870.]

LIVERPOOL INS. Co. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

569

Argument for the company.

tions, but only those are referred to here which bear on the
question which the court had before it. There were also
three subsequent deeds of settlement, and three acts of Parliament were passed to give efficiency to the purposes of the

association.
The first of these acts provided that the association might
sue and be sued in the name of the chairman or deputy
chairman of the board of directors; that the' stockholders
might sue the company us plaintiffs, or be sued by it as
defendants. It regulated the manner in which the share-

holders might be made individually liable for the debts of the association ; and it declared that the act should not be construed to
incorporate the company or relieve its members from their individual liability, except as provided in the act.
The second act of Parliament changed the hame of the
company to that which it now bears, and authorized it to
make contracts by the new name, and it also contained a
provision that the act should not make the company a corporalion; and there was a third act which authorized amalgamation with another company, and which again provides

against its being construed into an act of incorporation or a limited
liability partnership.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts gave a decree against the company, and enjoined it from the further
prosecution of its business till the taxes found to be due

were paid.
The case was now brought to this court on the ground
that inits application to the company the statute of Massachusetts was in conflict with the provision of the Constitution, which confers on Congress the right to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the States, and with
that which secures to the citizens of each State all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.

Messrs. B. R. Curtis and J. G. Abbott, for the company,
plaintiff in error:
Whatever may be the character of the defendants, their
association together and their relations to others, they must

570

LIVERPOOL INS. Co. V. MASSACH1USETTS.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument for the company.

depend upon the laws of Great Britain. If the defendants
are not a corporation by the English law, then they are not
by our law, because here they have done no act in any way
to alter or change their legal status or their relations to
others. Indeed, our law does not in any way apply to them,
act upon or affect their character, or profess to do it; it
leaves that to be defined by the laws of the country under
which they formed their association.
Now, under the laws of Great Britain, it cannot be maintained that the defendants are a corporation, or in fact anything more than a partnership of a large number of natural
persons, having procured certain privileges from the governmenf, under which they associated together for the convenience of those who deal with them.
In Great Britain, the King and Parliament alone can
create corporations. In this case, neither has exercioed the
power, but when Parliament granted to the company certain
privileges, especial care was taken to declare that the grant
made should not create a corporation.
This seems conclusive.
With us the defendants would not possess and enjoy the
Privilege, or be subject to the liability of being sued, and
suing in the name of an officer of their association, but
would be obliged to sue or be sued in the name of all partners, for tc acts of Parliament giving that right and imposing that liability', apply to the manner of enforcing a remedy,
and caunot avail beyond its own limits and courts.
So that when the defendants transact their business in
this country, the acts of Parliament, giving some of the
"privileges of corporations, are of no avail to them; in fact
they are like any partnership of natural persons, and must
be treated. in the sanie way, entitled to the same rights and
privileges, aid, subject to the same lialilities.
Numerous cases in the English Reports where the rights,
privileges, and-liabilities of such bodies as this one are passed
upon, show that the association here is not a corporation.*
Harrison v. Timmins, 4 AleMson & Welsby, 510; Bartlett v. Pentland,
Barnewall & Adolphus, 704; "Van Sandau v. Moore, 1 Russell, 44f; Cape's

Dec. 1870.]

LIVERPOOL INS. CO. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

571

Argument for the company.

But if the defendants were an association of our own
citizens, formed here under like deeds of settlement, and
,like acts of the legislature, they would not be held to be
corporations. The association does not make out of its
members a new artificial political person; it still remains a
body of natural persons, with certain privileges conferred
upon them. No new body is created by the legislature with
the property of individuality, and the capacity of holding
property and transacting'business. Indeed, the association
falls entirely short of being a corporation, as usually defined
and understood.*
Nor does this case fall within a principle often acted upon
by courts, that when a collective body of natural persons are
granted powers, rights, and privileges by a collective name,
and there is no mode in which they can be enjoyed and exercised, without acting in a corporate capacity, such a body
is held to be a corporation by necessary implication. Here,
such implication is precluded by the legislative declaration
that a corporation shall not exist, and by the fhct that the
deeds and legislative acts very minutely and carefully provide in what manner the rights and powers granted shall
be enjoyed and exercised. Indeed, it is always holden, that
where a corporation is so established by implication, the
legislative intention to confer a corporate existence must be
certain and plain.
Assuming that the plaintiff inerror was not a corporation,
but was, as they above argued, a partnership or association
of individuals, some of which were subjects of Great Britain
and others citizens of the State of New York, the learned
counsel argued further that the rights of the former were
protected by the treaty between the United States and Great
Britain, and the rights of the latter by section 2, article 4,
of the Federal Constitution referred to in the statement of
the case.
Executors, 2 De Gex, Iylne & G. 562; Mabew's Case, 5 Id. 562; Blakeley's
Exec., 13 Beavan, 13; Burncs v. Pennell, 2 House of Lord's Cases, 522.
* Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheaton, 636; Providence Bank
v. Billings, 4 Peters, 562.

572

LIVERPOO-L INS. Co. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State.

Mr. Charles Allen, Attorney- Generalof Massachusetts, contra:
It is true, that the various acts of Parliament conferring
corporate privileges upon the plaintiffs in error declare that
it is not the intention thereby to constitute them a corporation ; and if merely saying that they are not to be a corporation, at the same time when all the essential qualities and
privileges of a corporation' are bestowed upon them, would
make it that they are not in fact a corporation, then it would
have to be admitted that fhiey are not a corporation. But
in ascertaining the legal character of the company, we are
not to look at what they are called, but at what they are.
By what rule is the question to be tested ? The essential
characteristics of a corporation are not the same at different
times and in diffirent countries. The definitions of a corporation vary. Certain things were formerly deemed essential qualities of a corporation, which are so no longer. Thus,
a common seal formerly had essential signlificance, in those
days when it was considered that corporations could only
act by deed; but now, in this country, the common seal is
of no significance. It is a mere ornament, and without use.
The deeds of settlement of the company show that they
strained all laws applicable to partnerships to the very
utmost, in the endeavor to provide for the transaction of
their business before applying to Parliament for corporate
privileges. This company by their deeds of settlement, in
fact, made provisions and took upon themselves powers
which are inconsistent with the common law applicable to
partnerships.
For instance, carrying on business by means of directors
exclusively, and depriving the members of all voice in detei'nining matters. This is one. But it was in vain, with
the aid of all 'le provisions that were contained in the deed
of settlement, or that cotld be included in a private agreement aiong individuals; to attempt to stretch the law of
partnerships far enough to cover the business of this coinpany.
Accbrdingly acts of Parliament were obtained, which gave
them in direct terms the various powers; among these, that

Dec. 1870.]

LIvElPOOL INS. Co. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

573

Opinion of the court.

they might sue anl be sued in the name of one individual;
that the company might sue and be sued by members of the
company; that an amalgamation with another comipany
should be binding on all of their members, whether consenting or not.
After'these acts this company lacked no quality or characteristic of a corporation.
The exemption from individual liability is not now (how,ever it may have been heretofore) a characteristic test of a
corporation.
[Mr. Allen then replied (though he considered that the
court would not get so far as to these points) to the arguments as to rights of the British stockholders under the
treaty with Great Britain and of those of New York undr
the Federal Constitution.]
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The case of Paul v. Virginia,* decided that the business
of insurance, as ordinarily conducted, was not commerce,
and that a corporation of one State, having an agency by
which it conducted that business in another State, was not
engaged in commerce between the States.
It was also held in that case that a corporation was not a
citizen within the meaning of that clause of the Constitution, which declares that the citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in.
the several States, and that a corporation created by a State
could exercise none of the functions or privileges conferred
by its charter in any other State of the Union, except by the
comity and consent of the latter.
These propositions dispose of the case before us, if plaintiff is a foreign corporation, and was, as such, conducting
business in the State of Massachusetts, and we proceed to
inquire into its character in this regard.
The institution now known as the Liverpool and London
Life and Fire Insurance Company, doing an immense busi8 Wallace, 168.

574

LIVERPOOL INS. CO. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ness in England and in this country, was first organized at
Liverpool by what is there called a deed of settlement, and
would here be called articles of association.
It will be seen by reference to the powers of the association, as organized under the deed of settlement, legalized
and enlarged by the acts of Parliament, that it possesses
many, if not all, the attributes generally found in corporations for pecuniary profit which are deemed essential to their
corporate character.
1. It has a distinctive and artificial name by which it can
make contracts.
2. It has a statutory provision by which it can sue and be
sued in the name of one of its officers as the representative
oIV the whole body, which is bound by the judgment rendered in such suit.
3. It has provision for perpetual succession by the transfer
and transmission of the shares of its capital stock, whereby
new members are introduced in place of those who die or
sell out.
4. Its existence as an entity apart from the shareholders

is recognized by the act of Parliament which enables it to
sue its shareholders and be sued by them.
The subject of the powers, duties, rights, and liabilities
of corporations, their essential nature and character, and
their relation to the business transactions of the community,
have undergone'a change in this country within the last
half century, the importance of which can hardly be overestimated.
They have entered so extensively into the business of the
country, the most important part of which is carried on by
them, as banking companies, railroad companies, express
coinpanies, telegraph companies, insurance companies, &c.,
and the demand for the use of corporate powers in combining the capital and the energy required to conduct these
large operations is sQ imperative, that both b statute, and

by the tendency of the courts to me.et the requirements of
these public necessities, the lawo.f corporations has been so
modified, liberalized, and enlarged, as to constitute a branch

Dec. 1870.]

LIVERPOOL INS. CO. V. MASSACHUSETT

575

Opinion of the court.

of jurisprudence with a code of its own, due mainly to very
recent times. To attempt, therefore, to define a corpora-tion, or limit its powers by the rules which prevailed when
they were rarely created for any other than municipal purposes, and generally by royal charter, is impossible in this
country and at this time.
Most of the States of the Union have general laws by
which persons associating themselves together, as the shareholders in this company have done, become a corporation.
The banking business of the States of the Union is now
conducted chiefly by corporations organized under a general
law of Congress, and it is believed that in all the States the
articles of associ-tion of this company would, if adopted
with the usual formalities, constitute it a corporation under
their general laws, or it would become so by such legislative
ratification as is given by the acts of Parliament we have
mentioned.
To this view it is objected that the association is nothing
but a partnership, because its members are liable individually
for the debts of the company. But however the law on this
subject may be held in England, it is quite certain that the
principle of personal liability of the shareholders attaches to
a very large proportion of the corporations of this country,
and it is a principle which has warm advocates for its universal application when the organization is for pecuniary
gain.
So also it is said that the fact that there is no provision
either in the deed of settlement or the act of Parliament for
the company suing or being sued in its artificial name forbids the corporate idea. But we see no real distinction in
this respect between an act of Parliament, which authorized
suits in the name of the Liverpool and London Fire and
Life Insurance Company, and that which authorized suit
against that company in the name of its principal officer.
If it can contract in the artificial name.and sue and be sued
in the name of its officers on those contracts, it is in effect
the same, for process would have to be served on some such
officer even if the suit were in the artificial name.

576

LIVERPOOL INS. 0o. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J.

It is also urged that the several acts of Parliament we
have mentioned expressly declare that they shall not be held
to constitute the body a corporation.
But whatever may be the effect of such a declaration in
the courts of that country, it cannot alter the essential nature
of a corporation or prevent the courts of another jurisdiction
fro~m inquiring into its true character, whenever that may
come in issue. It appears to have been the policy of the
English law to attach certain consequences to incorporated
bodies, which rendered it desirable that such associations as
these should not become technically corporations. Among
these, it would seem from the provisions of these acts, is the
exemption from individual liability of the shareholder for
the contracts of the corporation. Such local policy can have
no plAce here in determining whether an association, whose
powers are ascertained and its privileges conferred by law,
is an incorporated body.
The question before us is whether an association, such as
the one we are considering, in attempting to carry on its
business in a manner which requires corporate powers under
legislative sanction, can claim, in a jurisdiction foreign to
the one which gave those powers, that it is only a partnership of individuals.
We have no hesitation in holding that, as the law of corporations is understood in this country, the association is a
corporation, and that the law of Massachusetts, which only
permits it to exercise its corporate function in that State on
the condition of payment of a specific tax, is no violation of
the Federal Constitution or of any treaty protected by said
Constitution.
Mr. JusticeBRADLEY:
Whilst I agree in the result which the court has reached,
I differ from it on the question whether the company is a
corporation. I think it is one of those special partnerships
which are called joint-stock companies, well known in England for nearly a century, and cannot maintain an action or
be sued as a corporation in this country without legislative

Dec.. 1870.]

THE COTTON PLANT.
Statement of the case.

aid. But as it is a company associated under the laws of a
foreign country, it comes within the scope of the Massachusetts statute, and cannot claim exemption from its operation
for the causes alleged in that behalf. It could not have been
the intent of the treaty of 1815 to prevent the States froni
imposing taxes or license laws upon either British corporations or joint-stock companies desiring to establish banking
or insurance business therein. And certainly these compa.
nies cannot be exempted from such laws on the ground that
citizens of other States have chosen to take some of their
shares.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE COTTON PLANT.
A capture made within the State of North Carolina on the Roanoke River,
130 miles from its mouth, by a naval force detached from two steamers
that had proceeded up the river, one about 80 miles and the other about
100, where they stopped in consequence of the crookedness of the stream
and apprehensions of low water, held to be a capture upon " inland
waters "' of the United States, as that phrase is used in the act of Congress of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat. at Large, 377), and therefore not to be
regarded as maritime prize.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, condemning as prize the steamer Cotton
Plat, and her cargo; the case was thus:
An act of Congress of July 2, 1864, passed during the late
rebellion, enacts that " no property seized or taken upon any
of the inland waters of the United States by the naval forces
thereof shall be regarded as maritime prize;" and directs
that all property so seized or taken shall be promptly delivered to the officers of the courts, to)be dealt with in a way
which the act prescribes.
The capture, which was the subject of this libel, took place
on the 101h day of May, 1865, in North Carolina, at the mouth
of Quankey Creek, on the Roanoke River, about half a mile
VOL. x.

37

