Dec. 1870.]

BETHELL V.

DEMARET.

Syllabus.

Hence, there is justice and fitness in.holding that the legal
title remains in the mortgagee until redemption, though the
debt has been paid. It is observable that the statute of 7
Geo. II, ch. 20, enacted that a mortgagee shall not maintain ejectment, after payment or tender by the mortgagor of
principal, interest, and costs. There could have been no
necessity for such an enactment if the legal title had not remained idi the mortgagee. The point has never been decided
by this court, but in Gray v. Jenks,* Judge Story intimated
at least that such was his opinion, though the case-did not
call for such a decision. It is true a different rule is said to
prevail in New York from that held in Massachusetts, but
it is not the rule of the common law, nor can it be so promotive of justice.
This is all that need be said of the case. Were it conceded that the Circuit Court was in error in instructing the
jury that the sale under the Kutz and Levan judgment
passed whatever title John Brobst had (which we do not
assert), or that the rulings respecting the partition and the
tax title were erroneous, it would not avail the plaintiff in
error, because, for the reasons mentioned, there can be-no
recovery in this action.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BETIIELL

v.

DEMARET.

2. The authority conferred by a State on its Supreme Court to hear and determine cases, is not the kind of authority referred to in the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, which gives this court a right to review the
decisions of the highest State court, where is drawn in question the

validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, &c., . • and the
decision is in favor of such validity.
2. The decision of a State court which simply held that promissory notes,
given for the loan of "Confederate currency," together with a mortgage
to secure' the notes, were nullities, on the ground that the considera• 3 Mason, 620.

BETHELL V.

IDEMARET.

[Su .'Ct.

Argument in support of the writ.
tion was illegal, according to the law of the State, at the time the contract was entered into, is not a decision repugnant to the Constitution.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Louisiana. The case was this:
Bethel brought suit against Demaret and others in a dis,
trict court of the State, to enforce a mortgage given to secure
the payment of two notes of $7500 each, given by them for
the loan of Confederate currency, on the 24 April, 1862, payable in two and three years after date, with interest. The
plaintiff recovered judgment, and the mortgaged premises
were directed to be sold to pay it. Whereupon an appeal
was taken to the Supreme Court of the' State, where the
judgment was reversed and the, suit dismissed. The decision was placed on the ground that the Confederate money
was illegal, and constituted no valid consideration for the
two notes and mortgage at the time they were executed, according to the code of the State.* The court say, in its
opinion, "The plaintiff is endeavoring to enforce a contract,
the consideration of which was Confederate currency. The
nullity of contracts founded upon that unlawful currency
has been frequently determined." The plaintiff then brought
the case here, assuming it to come within that clause of the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, which gives a right of
review to this court of the judgment in the highest State
court, "where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
of, or an auihority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, &c., . . and the
decision is in favor of such validity."
Mr. . A. Campbell now moved to dismiss the writ for
want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Miles Taylor, in support of the writ:
When the mortgage in this case was given, "-Confederate
notes" were the only money of the South. They were habitually in use there for procuring the necessaries of life,
* Art. 1887, 1889, 2026; Schmidt v. Barker, 17 Annual, 261.

Dec. 1870.]

BETHELL V.

DEMARET.

Argument in support of the motion.

and for paying for services of every kind. And by all principles of equity a mortgage to secufe the payment of a loan
of them was a "contract." In 'this case we sue on them,
and the defence is set up that the contract was unlawful.
We plead the obligation of the contract, and the provision
of the Constitution which forbids a State to violate its obligation. The Supreme Court of Louisiana decides against
us. It-decided, in effect, that the contracts contained in the
obligations sued on, were- null and void, because they-were
given for Confederate money; and, in consequence thereof,
the court exercised its power, under the authority of the
State of Louisiana, to prevent the plaintiff from enforcing
the payment of these obligations, so as not only to impair
the obligation of the contracts in question, but to destroy
them altogether.
Mr. Campbell, contra, in support of his motion:
The Supreme Court of the State decided that a loan of Confederate money could not be a lawful cause of a contract.
The judges did not consider the court in which they were
sitting as having been at any time independent of the laws
and statutes of the United States. Those laws and the acts
of the departments of the government have never regarded
the Confederate States as anything more than a name, or
the notes otherwise than as without authority, and for a purpose illegal, and hostile to the government of the United
States; issued to sustain and to promote what was declared
to be an existing insurrection, and carried the evidence of

that fact on their face.
The question now- submitted is, whether this judgment
presents any matter for the review of the Supreme Court of
the United States? Does the Constitution of the UJnited
States, or any treaty or law, authorize or protect the circulation of these Confederate notes, or prescribe that they
shall be a basis for a contract of loan ? The answer must
be in the negative.
Does the adjudication that they do not form a legal cause
for a contract of loan by the Supreme Court of the State

,40

"BETHELL V. DEMARET.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

violate any part of the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States? The answer must be the same.
The decision of the State court is, that the circulation of
those notes by any party for any cAuse, affected the public
order and disturbed the public peace of the United States.
Unquestionably this is true, and beyond this the court did
not go.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
There was no Federal question presented to the court below by the plaintiff in error, so far as appears froni the
record. There is no statute of a State in question here.
But it is insisted that there was an authority under the
State of Louisiaua exercised in the case drawn in question,
and which was repugnant to the Constitution, and the decision in favor of its validity, and that is,.the Supreme Court
of the State were acting under the authority of the State at
the time its decision was rendered.
There are two answers to this ground: 1st. That the authority conferred on a court to hear and determine cases in
a State, is not the kind of authority referred to in the 25th
section, otherwise every judgment of the Supreme Court of
a State would be re-examinable under the section; and 2d.
The decision of the court was not repugnant to the Constitution. It simply held that the promissory notes, together
with the mortgage in question, werenullities, on the ground
that the "Confederate currency," which coiitituted the consideration, was illegal according to the law of the State at
the time the contract was entered intq.
As no Federal question appears in ihe record the motion
to dismiss must be
GRANTED.

