Dec. 1869.]

IDOWNJIAM V. ALEXANDRIA COUNCIL.

173

Statement of the case.

DOWNHAM HT AL. V.

ALEXANDRIA

COUNCIL.

An ordinance of the city council of Alexandria imposed a license tax of
two hundred dollars upon dealers in beer or ale by the cask which wa4

not manufactured in that city, but-brought there for sale. The def~ndants were commission merchants in that city, and dealt in beer and

ale by the cask, not there manufactured, but brought there for sale
without having obtained a license therefor, or having paid the required
tax. In an action by the city council to recover of the defendants the
license tax, held, that the ordinance, so far as it operated upon the business of the defendants, was not in conflict with that clause of the Constitution which declares that "Congress shall have power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States ;" nor
.
with the clause which declares that " the citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several

States ;" it not appearing that the beer or ale in which they dealt was
m anufactured either in a foreign country or in another State of the

Union. If they were manufactured within the State, the exaction of
the special license tax for the privilege of selling them in casks in Alexandria, would not be obnoxious to either of those clauses of the Constitution.

to the Fourth Judicial District Court of the State
of Virginia. The case was thus:
The Constitution by one clause declares that " Congress
shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several States,;" and by another that "the
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the several States." With
these provisions existing, the city council of Alexandria, in
Virginia, passed in June, 1867, an ordinance for the purpose of raising revenue for that year, and by it imposed a
license tax, in proportion to the capital invested, upon all
merchants commencing business, and a tax proportioned to
their sales, upon all merchants who had been carrying on
business for one year, prior to the first of June. The same
ordinance also imposed a special license tax upon commission merchants commencing business, and a tax in proportion to the commissions received upon those who had been
doing business for one year prior to the first of June. The
ordinance further imposed a license tax of two hundred dolERROR

174

DOWNHAM

V.

ALEXANDRIA COUNCIL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

lars ".on all agents or dealers in beer or ale by the cask, not
manufactured in this city.(Alexandria), but brought there
for sale."
In this state of things Downham & Co. 'were, at the commencement of this action, in August, 1867, and bad been
from the first of the previous June, conducting the business of
liquor merchants and commission merchants in Alexandria,
and at the same time had been dealing on commission in
beer and ale by the cask, which was not manufactured in
the city, but was brought there for sale. They obtained, as
required by the ordinance, a license f'om the mayor of the
city, as merchants and commission merchants, for the year
ending June 1st, 1868, and paid the liquor tax; but they did
riot obtain a license to deal in beer and ale by the cask, which
were not manufactured in Alexandria, but were brought there
for sale; nor did they pay the tax of two hundred dollars required by the ordinance for such license. The city council
brought the present action to recover that sum.

The de-

fendants set up h way of defence, that the ordinance, in the
imposition of a Lax upon dealers in beer or ale by the cask,
when not maniufhctured in the city of Alexandria, but brought
there for sale, was in conflict with the two clauses of the
Constitution already above quoted.
The case was submitted to the Circuit Court of Alexandria
County upon an agreed statement of facts, the parties waiving all matters of form and pleading, and expressing a desire
to present for the decision of the court two questions:
1st. Whether the city council of Alexandria bad exceeded
its authority in imposing the tax upon dealers in "foreign
ale or beer?"
2d. Whether the license of the defendants, as merchants
and commission merchants, authorized them to deal in ale
or beer by the cask, which was not manufactured in Alexandria, but brought there for sale, when the ordinance imposed a specific license tax upon this particular branch of
the trade ?
The Circuit Court gave judgment for the city, and the
District Court affirmed the judgment, and this latter court

Dec. 1869.]

DOWNHAM V. ALEXANDRIA COUNCIL.

175

Opinion of the court.

being the highest court of law in the State in which a decision could be had, the case was brought here for review;
the plaintiffs in error assuming that the case came within
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act. ,
Messrs. Brent and Wattles, for the plaintiffs in error, urged
in this court the same positions which the defendant set up
below.
Mr. D. L. Smoot, for the city council of Alexandria, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court as follows:
The argument of counsel proceeds upon the supposition
that the beer and ale in which the defendants dealt was
manufactured either in a foreign country, or in another
State of the Union ; but there is nothing in the record to
warrant the supposition. The first question that the parties
desired to present in the agreed statement is not, in truth,
raised by the facts admitted. It is not alleged in the statement that the defendants were dealers in "foreign beer or
ale," or even in beer or ale manufactured without the State
of Virginia. If is only alleged that they were dealers in
beer and ale by the cask, which was not manufactured in
the city of Alexandria. For anything which appears, the
beer and ale in which they dealt may have been manufac-

tured in other parts of the State. If manufactured within
the State, the, exaction of the special license tax for the
privilege of selling them in casks in Alexandria, would not,
of course, be obnoxious to either clause of the Constitution
cited. In that case, it would not interfere with any regulation of commerce with foreign nations, or between the States,
or with any authority to make regulations for such commerce.
Nor would it, in that case, impair any privileges or.immunities of citizens of other States, who, equally with citizens
of Virginia, and upon the same terms, could deal in the city
of Alexandria in similar goods. It is only equality of privileges and immunities between citizens of different States
that the Constitution guarantees.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The defendants have, in fact, presented for our consider
ation a possible, but not an actual ques'tion, one which may
hereafter arise under the ordinance, but which has not arisen
as yet; at least the record does not aver any facts which show
that it has arisen, and we cannot indulge in presumptions
to supply the omissions of material averments.
The second question presented in the statement depends
for its solution upon the construction of local statutes, and
does not involve the consideration of any act of Congress,
or any provision of the Constitution of the United States.
We are of opinion that no question is raised by the record
which this court can consider under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act, and the writ of error must, thereDISMISSED.

fore, be

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.
1. When a common carrier shows that a loss was by some vis major, as by
flood, he is excused without proving affirmatively that he was guilty of
no negligence.
2. The proof of such negligence, if the negligence is asserted to exist, rests
on the other party.
S. In case of a loss of which the proximate cause is the act of God or the
public enemy, the common carrier is excused though his own negligence
or laches may have contributed as a remote cause.
4. The maxim causa proxima non remota spectatur applies to such cases as to
other contracts and transactions; and ordinary diligence is all that is
required of the carrier to avoid or remedy the effects of the overpowering cause.
5. The mere promise of a carrier, without additional consideration, to forward freight already on the route by an earlier train than usual, is not
evidence. from which a jury can infer a special contract to do so,

IN error to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Tennessee, the case being this:
Reeves sued the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company as a common carrier for damage to a quantity of
tobacco received by it for carriage, the allegation being
negligence and want of due care. The tobacco came by rail
from Salisbury, North Carolina, to Chattanooga, Tennessee,

