38

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V... MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

These views are well supported by recently adjudged cases
iii this country.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V.

MEMPHIS

RAILROAD..

A city invited bids for making a street railroad. Bids were made by an
unincorporated company, and accepted; accepted, however, with a
modification. To this modification the company agreed, expressing its
readiness to sign a contract embodying the terms and conditions of
it. The communication accepting the modification was referred to a
committee; but no contract in form was ever signed. At this point of
the matter the city passed a resolution giving permission to the unincorporated company to have themselves incorporated:
"The incorporation in no way to change the conditions of the propositions
heretofore made sndaecepted by the parties respectively, the same being intended
to secure the rights and more effectually preserve the remedies of parties against
each other respectively, in case of any violation of contract to be hereafter
entered into."
The unincorporated company accordingly got a charter, and so became
an incorporated one. Its charter authorized it to complcte all agreements
entered into, with the city, for the use of the streets ; AND, to operate
street railroadsin ALL the streets of the city with the consent qf the city;
The company, in its chartered form, now expressed to the city its readiness to execute their contract (which had been prepared by th city
solicitor), and to enter on the construction of the road. This communication was referred to a committee. In the meantime opposition was
made by the citizens to having rails in the streets, and the city resolved
to recede from its project of having them, recognizing, at the same
time, its "moral but not legal obligation to make good to those who
had been incorporated as a street railway any real damage sustained by
change of purpose."
Held,
1st. That there was no perfected contract between the city and the
unincorporated company.
2d. That if there had been, there was no evidence that the city had
accepted the incorporated company in place of the unincorporated
one.
*Fogg

v. Middlesex Manufacturing Co., 10 Cushing, 846; Hale v. M.

& F. Ins. Co., 6 Gray, 169; Young v. Eagle Ins. Co., 14 Id. 163; Grosvenor v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 17 New York, 391 ; State Mutual Fire Ins. Co.
v. Roberts, 31 Pennsylvania State, 438.

Dec. 1869.]

PEOPLE's RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD..

39

Statement of the case.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, the case being
thus:
The city of Memphis being by its charter empowered "to,
regulate the laying of railroad iron and the passage of railroad cars thr~ugh the city," and by general law " to grant
privileges in the use and enjoyments of the streets," passed,
on the 11th of November, 1859, an ordinance prescribing
the terms on which the board would grant the exclusive
privilege of constructing street railways in Main Street, and
other streets specially named, and operating them under
certain regulations for a term of twenty-five years.
By the ordinance, bids were invited to be made, on or
before November 20th, to the mayor and finance committee,
and were to be reported to and awarded by a board consisting of the mayor and aldermen, at the first meeting thereafter.
Accordingly, on the 29th of November, the board met, and
received from the finaoce committee a number of bids, including one from H. D. Small, William Kirk, and nine
persons named, "and others, as the People's Passenger Railroad Company of Memphis;" the proposition being made
by Kirk and Small as " business agents of the company."
The committee reported that the bid thus made was the best
one for the interest of the city; and the board proceeded to
make their award pursuant to the ordinance. The bid thus
reported on contained four propositions, each offering to pay
certain amounts, fixed or contingent, for the privilege of
running upon certain streets. The board made their award
by authorizing the mayor and city attorney to close a contract with Kirk, Small, and the others, upon the terms of
their second propositioun as to the amount and time of payment, but including other streets, making a reservation of a
right to determine the sort and weight of rail to be used,
and varying the time of completion.
These modifications were accepted by Kirk and Small, in
behalf of the persons composing the People's Passenger
Railroad Company, December 2d, and a notice thereof, in
writing, with great form and specification that they were so,

40

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

given to the board, and by the board, December 8th, " read
received, and ordered to be filed."
. On the same 8th day of December, the board passed a
resolution giving permission to tha associates, describing
them as "the parties to whom has been awarded the contract for
,
day of
city railroads,under the ordinancepassed the
1859," to have themselves incorporated, " the incorporation
in no way to change the conditions of the propositions heretofore made and accepted by the parties respectively, the same being
intended to secure the rights and more effectually preserve
the remedies of parties against each other respectively, in
case of any violation of contract to be hereafter entered into."
On the 1st of February, 1860, that is to say about two
months afterwards, Small, Kirk, and their associates were
incorporated by the styl'e of "The People's Passenger Railroad Company of Memphis," and by section 4 of their
charter authorized to complete all the contracts or agreements entered into with the city of Memphis, or other parties,
for the use of the streets of said city, and to enlarge and
alter the terms of the same with said parties-AND to operate
street railroads,by animal power, in ALL the streets of said city,
with the consent of the said city.
Section 5 authorized the company to extend said road or
roads outside the corporate limits.
On the 21st of February, 1860, the president and secretary
of the People's Passenger Railroid Company laid before the
board of mayor and aldermen a copy of their charter, and
expressed their readiness to sign the contract which had
been prepared for their signature by the city attorney. They
say:

"We think that the same is in accordance with the agreement
with the city as embodied in the ordinance on the bid and the
resolution of grant. -By a resolution of our board of directors
under the charter which you permitted us to obtain, we are
authorized to sign the contract, and hold ourselves in readiness
to do so.

. .

. We are prepared to give the required bonds as

soon as the.contract is executed."

Dec. 1869.] PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD. 41
Statement of the case.

They express also their readiness to enter immediately
upon the construction of the road, for which they say they
had made preparations.
This communication was referred to a committee, with
instructions to report.
In the meantime, opposition had arisen among the property-holders on Main Street, one of the streets named in the
contract, and the committee recommended a postponement
of action as to that street till March 20th, for the purpose
of obtaining information as to the effect of street railroads
on the value of property.
On the 22d of March the board resolved to recede from
the undertaking to have a street railway on Main Street,
recognized their "moral but not legal obligation to make
good to those who had been incorporatedas a street railway coinpany any real damage sustained by change of purpose," and
referred the matter back to the committee, "to modify the
plans for street railways with the company, if it'can be
effected, or, otherwise, to agree oil a settlement of the supposed damages, and report back to the board." .No opposition appeared to have existed on any street but Main Street.
The committee and the company came to no settlement
as to damages; and the commjttee made no report till the
23d of April, 1861, when they reported a resolution, which
was adopted by the board, ofiering to sanetion the construction of the road on any street, provided the consent of twothirds of the property-holders thereon were first obtained.
The occupation of the city by the army during the rebellion, and the suspension of the courts, prevented- any proceediugs by the company either to obtain the consent of the
property-holders or to enforce its rights by legal proceedifgs,
and so the matter remained until June, 1865.
In the month and year last named, the rebellion being
now suppressed, the legislature of Tennessee chartered a
new company, to wit, " The Memphis City Railroad Company,
with authority to construct, maintain, use, and operate
street railways by animal power on all or any of the streets
of Memphis," and to make all contracts and agreements

42

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS. RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the People's Company.

with the city or other parties in connection with the matter.
And it repealed the act by which the People's Passenger
Railway Company had been incorporated.
The new company having begun to lay its track on the
streets of Memphis, and opposition being made thereto, on
account of the former charter to the other company, the new
company filed its bill in chancery, in a State court of Tennessee, the old company being made a defendant, to test the
right of the mAtter. The old company set up as a defence
to the bill that they had an existing contract with the city;
and that the charter to the new company was a law impairing its obligation. The court decreed in favor of the new
company, and that decree being affirmed in the Supreme
Court of the State, the old company brought the case here.
The questions accordingly were:
1. Whether there existed any contract between the city
and the old company ? And if yea, then,
2. Whether the statute incorporating the second company
was a law impairing the obligation of a contract?
Of course, unless the first question was determined affirmatively, that is to say, unless it was determined that a contract had been entered into between the old company and
the city, then the second could never arise.

Messrs. McRae, Carlisle, and McPherson, for the old Company, plaintiffs in error:
1. Under the act of 1860 the old company acquired corporate rights in the very matter of this controversy, to wit,
the right of laying and operating street railways through
certain streets of Memphis.
The advertisement for proposals by the board of mayor
and aldermen on the 22d of November, 1859, the propositions of Kirk and Small and their associates offered on the
29th, their acceptance with the alterations in the resolution
of that date by the board, and the after-acceptance by the
associates, constituted a perfect and full agreement, i congregatio mentium, wherein the terms, stipulations, conditions,
and obligations were decided and mutually adopted; and

Dec. 1869.] PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

43

Argument for the People's Company.

from that moment became binding on all the parties, which
a court of equity would require the specific performance of,
notwithstanding the formal contract was to be reduced to
writing and cQnfirmed, and the bonds confirmed.*
And whem the consent of the city was solicited and
granted, by the resolution of 8th of December, that the associates should be incorporated for the security of the mutual
rights, it was a substitution of the corporation to the benefit
of the agreement, so that when the company was chartered
and tendered its acceptance of the contract, the previous
agreement not having been revoked, its rights became perfeet.
The legislature did but incorporate, at the instance of
both parties, certain natural persons who had been acting
under a company name into a legal entity, even their name
being retained, for the more convenient assertion and protection of the rights of both parties in respect of the contract which had been entered into. In other words, it did
but substitute, with the consent of both parties, the incorporated company-this plaintiff in error-for the unincorporated one, with which the city of Memphis had contracted.
To this the city had consented in advance. But if she had
not, the case shows a subsequent consent, and a complete
recognition of the incorporated company so created as standing in the place of the original unincorporated one with
which the city had contracted. If, therefore, any renewed
consent to the original contract was contemplated by the act
of incorporation, that consent was given,
But it cannot be maintained that an act of incorporation,
which was in effect applied for by both parties for the avowed
and single purpose of making that contract more effectual,
could have been intended by either of them, or by the legislature acting upon their joint solicitation, inot only to unsettle that contract, but absolutely to annul it. Yet this is'
the construction which opposing counsel would seek to establish.
Levering & Carncross v. The Mayor et al., 7 Humphreys, 558, 654,
555; Blight v. Ashley, 1 Peters Circuit Court, 15.

44

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the People's Company.

In addition, it is more than doubtful if any assent was required in regard to making those roads already contracted
for. The words of section four, which authorizes the conipany "to complete and execute all contracts and agreements
entered into with the city of Memphis, for the use of the
streets of said city, or building said railroad," point to a
past transaction, begun, which is to be concluded; an agreement entered into already beforehand, which is to be executed. This agreement was for the use of the streets of the
city or building said railroad; that is, the definite, fixed railroad heretofore agreed about. This agreement being already
entered into, the parties "may alter or enlarge the terms of
the same." But this agreement, as is evident from the future
words, did not include all the streets nor other roads to be run
on the excluded streets not yet the subject of any agreement.
So the section goes on to authorize that they " may operate
street rail ROADS (in the plural) by animal power on all the
streets of the city of Memphis, with the consent of the city"
(not yet had, but to be obtained), for they " may enter in to all
necessary contracts for the building and operating said roads."
Section 5 shows still further .this meaning. The words
are: "Said company may extend said road or roads outside
the corporate limits," &c.
The clear meaning of the legislature, then, was that the
company should have the use of the streets to operate its
road according to the terms of the agreement it had made
with the city, under the consent it had already obtained;
and with reference to all streets not included'in that agreement it might operate railroads thereon by obtaining the
city's consent, under contract to be entered into for that purpose.
2. The act of the legislature incorporating the Memphis
City Railroad Company impairs the obligation of' the contract of the People's Passenger Railroad Company.
[The learned counsel then argued fully this point, but the
court deciding, as it will be seen that it does, that no contract was ever made, the argument has no pertinence, and
is not reported.]

Dec. 1869.]

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

45

Restatement of case in the opinion.

We need go into no argument on the question how far
the municipal corporation, under its pretty broad powers,
had a power to grant a franchise to a railroad company to
use the streets. Such discussion would be unprofitable, because the board of mayor and aldermen not only made no
effort to grant a franchise in the streets, but expressly, and
by the consent of the contracting parties, limited themselves
to regulating the terms and conditions on which the iron
might be laid and the cars run, leaving the adventurers to
secure their rights by obtaining a charter, the city only
giving its conseit to the incorporation to strengthen its application for a charter in the mutual interest. Without'doubt
the legislature could have chartered the company with a
grant of the streets irrespective of this consent. And by
consequence, it might bestow the grant in a charter, drawn
conformably to this consent. In this point of view, the action of the city corporation would be regular, and the legislative action in conformity with it, would ratify and adopt it.
The question of the confirmation of a void estate does not
arise in the case. The act of the legislature is to be interpreted according to the intention appearing upon its face,
and if the intention appear to be, to make valid a void thing,
it is within the paramount authority of the legislature if no
constitutional restriction interpose.
Even if the act of the board went further and undertook
to grant the franchise, it would amount to no more than such
an irregularity as the after-ratification by the legislature
rendered valid.
But the whole discussion is irrelative.
Messrs. Wilson, Pike, and Johnson, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Express authority was vested in the Memphis City Railroad Company, by the fourth section of their act'of incorporation, to "construct, maintain, use, and operate street
railways by animal power, on all or any of the streets in the
city of Memphis, using for that purpose all necessary ma-

46

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[SUp. Ct.

Restatement of case in the opinion.

chinery and equipments," and "to make, complete, and execute all contracts and agreements" made with the city or
other parties for any purpose connected directly or indirectly
with the construction, maintaining, or operating such railway, and to alter or enlarge the terms of the same with the
said parties.*
Evidently the legislature assumed to confer the franchise
of the company without regard to the consent or action -of
the city, and upon the assumption that there was no valid
subsisting contract between any other parties and the city
for con'structing the described railroad and putting the same
in operation. Confirmation of that proposition, if anything
else is needed, is found in the ninth section of the act of incorporation, which provides that the act entitled an act to
incorporate the People's Passenger Railway Company of the
City of Memphis, passed February 1, 1860, be and the same
is hereby repealed.
Pursuant to the act of-incorporation the company was duly
organized, and the stock necessary to construct ten miles of
the railway track, and to equip, run, and maintain the same,
was duly subscribed, and the contract awarded to responsible
persons to construct and equip that part of the railway as
ahithorized by the terms ofthe charter.
Regularly organized and ready and willing to comply with
all the requirements of their charter, the co:poration complainants allege that their contractor, employees, and agents.
commenced to construct the railroad with the intention of
fulfilling all their obligations, and would have completed the
undertaking if they had not been interrupted and obstructed
in the work; that the mayor and aldermen of the city, or
some of them, in disregard of the franchise of the comipany,
forcibly and with violence caused the work to be discontinued
and stopped.
Based upon these and similar allegations the prayer of the
bill of complaint is that John Park, mayor, and the board
of mayor and aldermen, may be made parties respondents
* Sessions Laws, 1865, p. 88.

Dec. 1869.]

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD..

47

"Restatemient of the case in the opinion.

in the suit, and fbr an injunction. They were accordingly
made parties, and the complainants having executed a bond,
with the usual conditions, in the sum of twenty thousand
dollars, the writ of injunction was duly issued.
Service of the writ of injunction having been made, the
People's Passenger Railroad Company filed a potition in the
ease, representing that they were authorized by their charter, with the consent of the city, to execute all contracts made
with the city or other- parties, for the use of-the streets of
the city for operating street railroads thereon by animal
power, and praying to be made a party respondent'to the
bill of complaint. Hearing was had on the petition, and it
appearing that the petitioners were interested in the issue,
it was ordered by the court that the prayer of the petition
be granted.
Being the original respondents, the city authorities filed a
separate answer, in which they admit that the complainants
made the offer in writing, as required by their charter, to
construct the railroad, and that they took possession of one
or more of the streets of the city for' that purpose; that they
commenced the work and that the mayor of the city interrupted the work as alleged and caused it to be discontinued.
Extended answer was also filed by the other corporation
respondents, in which they set up their act of incorporation
granted February 1, 1860, and, especially the fourth section
thereof, which provides that they "shall have power'to complete and execute all contracts and agreements entered into
with the city of Memphis, or other parties, for the use of
the streets of said city for building said railroad, and may
alter or enlarge the terms of the same with said parties, and
may operate street railroads by animal power-on all the
streets in the city of Memphis, with the consent of said city."
They also allege that the 'city authorities, prior thereto,
invited bids for the construction of such railroad (n certain
streets in the city, including those mentioned in the bill of
complaint; that on the twenty-ninth of November, 1859, the
bids made for that object were reported to the mayor and
aldermen, and that they awarded the contract to William"

48

PEOPLE's RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

Kirk and H. D. Small, whose bid was made in their own
behalf, and as agents of certain associates since constituted
the People's Passenger Railroad Company of Memphis; that
the said contractors and their associates were subsequently,
with the consefit of the city authorities, incorporated by the
legislature of the State, and with the understanding that the
conditions of the contract as made and accepted should not
be changed; and the respondents aver that they are advised
and insist that the consent of the city given as stated and

subsequently ratified by the legislature, as by their charter
appears, is a contract between the parties which no subsequent legislature can constitutionally alter or impair without
their consent.
By virtue of those proceedings they claim that they are
invested with a franchise which neither the city council, nor
the legislature, nor any other party can constitutionily invade; and that the ninth section of the complainants' charter,
by which their act of incorporation was repealed, is nill and
void, because it was passed in contravention of that clause
of the Constitution which forbids the States from passing
any law impairing the obligation of contracts, and the respondents in conclusion submit to the court that the matters
set forth in the answer call for the interposition of the court
to protect their rights as though they were complainants
asking relief in the premises, and they pray that the answer
may stand as a cross-bill, and that the mayor and board of
aldermen, as well as the complainants, may be required to
answer the alregations, and that the injunction may be dissolved..
Complainants demurred to the cross-bill, and the demurrer
was sustained, and the cross-bill was dismissed. On appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State the decree was affirmed,
and the respondents in the original bill of complaint appealed
to this court.
Two things must clearly appear in order to justify the
court in adopting the views of the respondents: (1.) That
there was a contract between the respondents and the city

Dec. 1869.] JPEOPLE'S RAILROAD

V.

MEMPHIS RAILROAD. 49

Opinion of the court.

authorities, which was complete in itself, and which was
binding on both parties. (2.) That the charter subsequently
granted to the Memphis City Railroad Company impairs the
obligation of that contract.
I. Prior in date as the charter of the respondents is, it is
clear that the charter granted to the complainants invades
the rights of the respondents, if the exclusive rights which
they claim were ever perfected by a binding contract made
between them and the city authorities, unless it be assumed
that the charter under which they claim such exclusive
right could be repealed by a subsequent legislature. Viewed
in that light the case presents two questions for decision,
both of which must be decided in favor of the respondents,
or the decree of the Supreme Court of the State must be
affirmed: (1.) Whether the city authorities ever entered
into a binding contract with the respondents that the respondents might complete and execute all contracts and
agreem*ents previously made with the city, or other parties,
for the use of the streets of the city for building and operating said railroad; and if they did make such a contract,
then (2), whether the act of the legislature repealing their
act of incorporation is or is not a valid law.
Apparently, it was a question in the State court whether
the respondents were ever legally incorporated; but there
does not appear to be any substantial ground of doubt upon
that subject, as the persons named in the act, and their associates, are expressly constituted a body politic and corporate
under the name the'reiu set forth, and the first section also
provides that they may have succession for the term of
twenty-five years, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, may have and use a common seal, purchase and
hold real and personal estate, create stock, elect directors
and other officers, and may make all necessary by-laws,
subject to the usual condition that they shall not be inconsistent with the laws of the State. Unfounded as the objection is in any view of the case, it may be dismissed without
further consideration.
I. Apart from that topic, however, the real question is,
VOL. x.

4

50

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

whether the special powers, described in the fourth section of
their charter ever actually vested in the respondents, as they
allege in their answer. They insist that the exclusive right
to construct railroads for the transportation of passengers
over the streets of that city, and to use the streets of the city
for that purpose, was granted by the city authorities to certain individuals as contractors before the respondents were
incorporated, and that- they, the respondents, with the consent of the city, subsequently became the assignees of that
contract and agreemetit, and as such were and are invested
with the authority to complete and execute that contract
and agreement as ratified and confirmed by the legislature.
None of the elements of that proposition are admitted by
the complainants ; but they insist that municipal corporafions have no power to grant such a franchise to individuals
.or other corporations, unless thereto special ly authorized by
the legislature; and .they also insist that no such power is
shown to have been conferred in this case.
1I1. Seribus doubts are entertained whether the mayor
and aldermen of the citV of Memphis possessed any authority to make such a contract as that set up in the answer as
having been made by them with the persons under whom
the respondents claim, as it obviously amounts to a franchise
for twenty-five years; and if so, then it is clear that it could
not be granted by those authorities in virtue of'the ordinary
powers possessed by such municipaities.
Power to make laws is vested in the legislature, under the
constitution of the State, and it is very doubtfil whether
the legislative department can delegate to any other body or
authority the power to grant such a franchise, as the exercise of that power involves a high trust created and conferred
for the benefit of those who granted it, and as the trust is
confided to the legislature it must remain where it is vested
until the constitution of the State is changed.*
Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, 117; Thorne v. Cramer,*15 Barhour, 112; Barto v. Himrod, 8 New York, 483; Parker v. Commonwealth,
*6 Pennsylvania State, 607; Sedgwick on the Constitution, 166; Wayman
v. Sotithard, 10 Wheaton, 46.

Dec. 1869.] PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD. 51
Opinion of the court.

Franchises, it is conceded, cannot, as a general rule, be
granted by such a corporation, and it is clear that the privilege of making a railway or turnpike, or establishing a ferry
and taking tolls for the use of the same, is a franchise, as
the public have an interest in the same, and the owners of
the privilege are liable to answer in damages if they refuse
the use of the same, without any reasonable excuse, upon
being paid or tendered the usual fare.*
IV. Consonant with that view this court held, in the case
of the Bank of Augusta v. Earle,t that franchises are special
privileges conferred by the goveinment on individuals, and
which do not belong to the citizens of the country generally
'of common right; and that in this country no franchise can
be held which is not derived from the law of the State.1
Contracts undoubtedly may be made by such municipalities to the extent of the authority conferred for that purpose
by the legislature, but the granting of a franchise is not the
same thing as a contract, and the exercise of such a power
cannot be upheld or vindicated as falling within the same
rule as the power to make contracts.
By the amendment to their charter, passed February 13th,
1854, the authorities of the city were empowered to regulate
the laying of railroad iron and the passage of railroad cars
through the city; but the better opinion is, that the provision in that behalf relates to the construction of railroad
tracks and the running of railroad cars through the city by
incorporated companies whose cars are propelled by steam,
and that it has no reference whatever to the construction or
authorization of a street passenger railway within the corporate limits, as claimed by the respondents in their answer.ยง
Authority.is also conferred on municipal corporations, by

the code of that State, "to grant privileges in the use and
* 3 Kent (11th ed.),.590; Willoughby v. Horridge, 16 English Law and
Equity, 487; Beekman v. Railroad Company, 3 Paige Ch. 45.
j- 13 Peters, 595.
1 Angell & Ames on Corporations (8th ed.), 2; State v. Armstrong, 3
Sneed, 634; Mayor, &c. v. Shelton, 1 Head, 24,
Sessions Laws, 1854, p. 294; Moses v. Railroad Company, 2 Illinois,
522.

52

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

enjoyment of the streets" of the municipality; but it would
be a very forced construction to hold that the power to grant
such a franchise for twenty-five years is included in that provision.*
V. Independently of those provisions, it is quite clear
that the municipal authorities of the city possessed no such
power as is supposed by the respondents. Such corporations are usually invested with the power to lay out, open,
alter, repair, and amend streets within the corporate limits;
but the rule is well settled, that by virtue of those powers,
without more, they cannot grant to an association of persons
the right to construct and maintain for a term of years a
railway in one of the streets of the municipality for the
transportation of passengers for private gain, and that an
ordinance or resolution of the authorities granting such a
right is, void.t
Special powers are given to such corporations to lay out,
open, and repair streets as a trust to be held and'exercised
for the benefit of the public, from time to time, as occasion
may require, and the general rule is, that those powers cannot be delegated to others, nor be effectually abridged by
any act of the municipal corporation without the express
authority of the legislature.1
Municipal corporations are doubtless invested with subordinate legislative powers to be exercised in the passage of
ordinances for local purposes, connected with the public
good, but they are merely derivative, and are subject, at all
times, to the legislative control.ยง
VI. Suppose, however, the authority to make the contract
set up in the answer of the respondents may be derived from
the statutory provisions to which reference is made, still the
* Code, 1858, p. 308.

t Davis et al. v. The Mayor, 14 New York, 514.
I Milhau v. Sharp, 27 New York, 611; People v. Kerr, 27 lb. 188; Elliott
v. F. and W. Railroad, 82 Connecticut, 570; Wager v. Troy Union Railroad, 25 New York, 526; People v. Th',-d Avenue Railroad, 45 Barbour,
63; Street Railway v. Cununingsville, 14 Ohio, New Series, 523; State v.
Council of floboken, 1 Vroom, 225.
2 Kent, 11th ed., 317; Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wallace, 663.

Dec. 1869.]

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

53

Opinion of the court.

court is of the opinion that the decree of the State court
should be affirmed upon two grounds, which will be separately and briefly explained: (1.) Because the supposed contract with the persons under whom the respondents claim
was never perfected between those persons and the city authorities. - (2.) Because the respondents fail to show, even if
it be admitted,that the contract between those parties was
perfected, that the city authorities ever consented to accept
the respondents as the successors of the supposed prior contracting party.
1. Examined carefully, the evidence will show that at
every stage of the negotiations something remained to be
done to complete the contemplated arrangement.
Prior to the twenty-second of November, 1859, the proper
authorities of the city passed an ordinance proposing to grant
the right to construct and operate street railroads for the
transportation of passengers in cars to be drawfi by horses
or mules, for twenty-five years from the passage of the ordinance. Bids ,ere subsequently, invited for that purpose,
and the persons before named submitted four propositions
as bids for the contract. On the twenty-ninth of the same
month the city council authorized the may.or and corporation attorney to close a contract with those persons to construct such a railway on certain streets and on certain prescribed terms-they to pay to the city the sum of one hundred and twenty-seven thousand five hundred dollars, at the
times and on the terms named in their second proposition.
But the city authorities reserved the right to determine what
description of rails and weight of iron should be used by
the contractors, and the stipulation' was that they should give
a bond to the city in the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars
to indemnify the city and individuals against damage. Subsequent proceedings intervened before any further action was
taken under that resolution.
Kirk and Small, professing to act in behalf of the association called the People's Passenger Railroad Company of
Memphis, December 2, 1859, addressed a letter to the mayor
and aldermen of the city occepting the -grant of the streets

54

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPiIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

named as set forth in the " general railroad ordinance" and
in the aforesaid resolution, subject to the terms, conditions,
privileges, and restrictions of said ordinance and resolution,
and expressing their readiness to sign a contract embodying
those terms and conditions.
Permission was given by the city authorities to those persons, on the eighth of the same month, to procure for themselves an act of incorporation, provided it did not change
the conditions of their proposition, and was granted subject
to the consent of the city, and was so framed as not to prevent any other company from building street railroads.
They were accordingly incorporated February 11, 1860, and
the act of incorporation provides, as before explained, that
the respondents, " with the consent of said city," may exercise the powers described inthe fourth section of the charter.
No contract was ever executed between the persons before
named and the city authorities, and no further efforts were
made to complete the proposed arrangement until after the
act of incorporation was passed.
Granted and accepted, as the charter was, on the condition that the respondents should secure the consent of the
city before they could exercise the franchise in question,
they are not at liberty to set up any other theory. Conclusive proof that the original arrangement was not concluded
is exhibited in the letter of the president and secretary of
the respondent corporation, written after the respondents
were organized, and addressed to the board of mayor and
aldermen, in which they refer to a contract as one prepared
by the corporation attorney, and say that they are authorized
to sign the contract on the part of the corporation. They
say they are prepared to give the required bonds as soon as
the contract is executed, but they do not pretend that any
draft of a contract was ever before presented to the city
authorities.
Nothing of the kind is suggested in the communication,
but they speak of the contract as one prepared "for our
signature," and the bid as- " our bid," assuming throughout
that the pesois who viade the bid and conducted the nego-

Dec. 1869.] PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V. MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

55

Opinion of the court.

tiations and the corporation respondents are ideutical, which
is a fatal mistake. They are not the same, and it is clear
that the proposed contract between those who made the bid
and the city was never completed.*
2. Attempt is made by the respondents to give a restricted
construction to the phrase " with the consent of the said
city," as contained in the fourth section of their charter, but
the court is not able to concur in that suggestion. Briefly
stated, the suggestion is that the phrase, as properly construed, only requires that the consent of the city should be
obtained in case the company should desire to construct
railways on streets other than those designated in the contract, but it is not possible to adopt that construction of the
phrase. On the contrary it seems clear that the franchise
described in the fourth section was granted subject to the
condition precedent, that the respondents should obtain the
consent of the city to use the streets for the purpose therein
described.t , Granted on that condition the charter would
not avail the respondents in this case even if it appeared
that the consent to that effect had been given to the two
persons who made the bid and conducted the negotiations
antecedent to the act of incorporation.t
Consent to those individuals, even if given as supposed,
did not bind the city to accept an incorporated company in
their stead, as the legislature might, for good reasons, require that such consent should be again given after the franchise was grahted ;and as such consent was never obtained,
it is quite clear that the decree of the State court must be
affirmed. Influenced by that view of the case, the court
does not think it necessary to refer to the subsequent proceedings between the parties, as it is clear that none of them
are of a character to give any different aspect to the controversy.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

- Governor v. Petch, 10 Hurlstone & Gordon, 610; Musser v. Street
Railway Co., 7 American Law Register, 284.
t Walker v. Devereaux, 4 Paige Ch., 251.
+ King v. Mlayor, 3 Barnewall &Adolphus, 271; King v. Justices, 1 Neville
& Mlanning, 67.

56

REILLY V. GOLDING.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, with NELSON and DAVIS, JJ.,
dissented, Mr. Justice DAVIS saying for himself and them,
that they thought that there was a contract between the
People's Passenger Railway Company and the City of Memphis which could not be impaired by State legislation, but
that he did not go into the question at length, as it was of
no general interest, and of importance only to the parties to
the suit.
Justices STRONG and BRADLEY had not taken their
seats on the Bench when this case was adjudged.

REILLY V. GOLDING.
1. By the practice of the courts of Lo6isiana, a practice which has been
adopted in the Circuit Court in that district, the mode of proceeding in
an attachment suit against a surety on a forthcoming bond given to obtain a release of property attached, is by rule to show cause ; and this
proceeding being merely incidental to the original suit, a jurisdiction
existing in such suit will not cease, because the parties to the rule are
citizens of the same State.

2. Especially is this true where the defendant in the rule has appeared and
answered on merits, and the case has gone to judgment.
8. A judgment affirmed where there was no finding of facts in the case.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
Golding, a cittizen of Louisiana, brought suit against Milne
& Co., of Mississippi, to recover a certain sum due for machinery furnished the last-named parties. The suit was
commenced by an attachment against the property of the
defendants, situate within the former State, and then in possession of the factors of the defendants, Bradly & Co. Bradly
& Co. intervened, and obtained the redelivery of the property to them on executing a forthcoming bond, one Reilly
being the surety. Afterwards the defendants, Milne & Co.,
appeared and removed the cause to the Circuit Court of the
United States, and put in an answer to the suit. Judgment
was subsequently rendered in favor of the plaintiff against
ERROR

