MEROHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

in this case, there is no equity raised in favor of the Ohio
Company against the United States.
Without pursuing the subject further, or noticing the
various repbrts in Congress adverse to this claim, we are
satisfied it is not a just charge on the treasury of the United
States.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.
I am of opinion that the demand of the plaintiff is a just
obligation of the United States, as binding as any part of
the public debt of the country.

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.
1. Evidence of powers habitually exercised by a cashier of a bank with its
knowledge and acquiescence, defines and establishes, as to the public,
those powers, provided that they be such as the directors of the bank
may, without violation of its charter, confer on such cashier.
2. .Where the authority of the agent is left to be infeired by the public from
powers usually exercised by the agent, it is enough if the transaction
in question involves precisely the same general powers, though applied
to a new subject-matter.
Thus, if in the case of a bank having power by its charter to buy and
sell exchange, coin and bullion, its cashier have habitually, with the
knowledge of the bank, dealt with the public as authorized to buy and,
sell exchange, then the power to buy and sell coin also (the right to
do both being conferred by the same clause of the charter), may be
inferred by a jury.
So, if a cashier is shown to have frequently pledged in writing the credit
of his bank for large amounts in the usual course of business, with the
knowledge of the bank-borrowing and lending its money, and buying
and selling exchange-doing all this usually by cashier's checks, though
sometimes by certificates of deposit and sometimes by memoranda, the
transactions being uniformly made in faith of the implied powers of
the cashier, without inquiry as to special authorization, and such is
shown to be the usage of other banks as. aJbove stated, it is evidence
from which a jury may itlfer that such cashici is authorized to pledge
the bank's credit by certifying a check to be 1 good; " this last method
being one not distinct in its nature from the others named, but similar

-Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS'"BANK V. STATE BANK.

605

Statement of the case.
to them, and involving in form and substance the same obligation and
consequence to the bank.
3. These principles hold even though it is not shown that any cashier of
any bank in the particular place where thd transaction which was the
subject of the suit arose, evei- used his powers to purchase coin, or ever
certified a check to be good.
4. The National Currency Act of 1864, authorizing the banks created under
it to buy and sell coin, a bank having coin in pledge may sell and
assign its special property; in which case the assignee will become
vested with the legal rights of the assignor.
5. If a cashier, without authority to buy coin in behalf of his bank, do so
buy it, and it goes into the funds of the bank, the bank is liable upon
the principle of quantum valebat.
6. The clause of the National Currency Act of 1864, which directs that
"the usual business'" of the banks created under it shall be transacted
"at an office or ba:.king-house in the place specified in its organization
certificate," does not prevent the purchase of coin by one bank at the
banking-house of another.
7. The certifying as "good" of checks given in the course of business for
convenience, is not within the prohibition of the 23d section of the
Natibnal Currency Act of 1864, which forbids the issue of post notes or
" other notes'"to circulate as money, other than the ordinary bank bills
authorized by the act.
8. A stamp, such as the Internal Revenue Act requires, for the acceptance
of adraft, is not required on the marking of a check "good; " "certified
checks" being taxed specifically in another way.
ERItOR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachu-

setts, in a suit by the Merchants' National Bank against the
State National Bank, upon three checks of Mellon, Ward
& Co., on the latter bank, marked "good" by its cashier,
nd given to the formner bank; amounting, the thlce, to

$600,000.
The case, as developed by admitted facts and by the plaintiff's evidence alone, was thus:
Both banks were associations organized under the Na-

tional Currency Act of 1864; the State Bank with a capital,
as its articles of association seemed to show, of $1,800,000,
capable of being increased.
Under this National Currency Act the affairs of "every
such association shall be managed by not less than five
directors, one of whom shall be president." The dir ectors
during their whole term of office must be citizens of the

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

United States. Three-fourths of them must have resided
in the State one year preceding their election, and reside
there during their continuance in office. Each must own
at least ten shares of stock, and as such owner he is personally liable to twice their value. All areto be sworn to the
diligent and honest administration of the affairs of the association.
The total liabilities of any person, or
firm or association,
to the bank, shall never, by section twenty-nine of the act,
exceed one-tenth of its capital. Bonds are to be deposited
as security for the bills of the bank, which by section twentyone may never exceed 90 per cent. of the bonds deposited.
Section twenty-three enacts that no bank shall issue post
notes, or other notes, to circulate as money than such as are
authorized by the foregoing provisions of the act, and by
various sections* care is taken to restrain the circulation,
and to secure its redemption.
The act by its eighth section enacts that each association
organized under it may, "by its board of directors appoint
a president, vice-president, cashier, and other officers, define their duties," &e., &c. And, it authorizes the association
to exercise all such incidental powers as shall be necessary to
carry on the business of banking by discounting and negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and other
evidences of debt; by receiving deposits; by buying and selling exchange, coin, and bullion, &c. The directors are empowered to regulate by by-laws the manner in which its.
general business shall be conducted.

"1And its usual busi-

ness," says the same section, "shall be transacted at an office
or banking-house located in the place specified in its organization certificate."
The directors of the State Bank defined the duties of their
cashier, no otherwise than that by the 1st article of the bylaws he was to notify corporate meetings, and act as clerk
at them; by article 7th was to be responsible for moneys,
funds, and all other valuables of the bank; by article 11th
"

2227, 47, 50.

Dee. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

607

Statement of the case.

"was-(either he or the president)-to sign all conveyances
of real estate voted by the directors; and by article 17,th was
-(either he or the president again)-to siy?. all contracts,
checks, drafts, receipts," &c.; and also all indorsements necessary to be made by the bank.
Evidence, however, showed that, as matter of fact, the
cashier of the Merchants' Bank was intrusted by its directors
with large and comprehensive powers in dealing with the
funds; so much so that instead of his transactions going
regularly, as they occurred, through the books of the bank,
and being credited or debited to the accounts to which they
severally belonged, there was opened on the books of the
bank one general account with the cashier, in which all the
debits and the credits arising out of them, were entered to his
debit or credit, that these transactions, thus entered on the
books, embraced the giving of checks in lieu of bills where
discounts were made; giving checks for the purchase of exchange; giving checks for money bori'owcd of other banks;
that the amount of cheeks thus given for exchange, and in
lieu of bank bills on discounts, during the five montlis prior
to the transaction which was the subject of this suit, was
$2,500,000, and in addition, that the amount of such checks
given for money borrowed of other banks during the same
period, was $1,547,000. And that regular printed blank
checks were kept by the bank to facilitate these operations
of their cashier.
So also evidence derived from the officers of twenty-two
banks of Boston, in relation to the dealings of such banks
with each other, showed a usage by which, without by-law
or vote, powers were intrusted to cashiers of such banks to
borrow and lend the money of their banks of and to each;
to buy and sell exchange of and to each other, and in all
such transactions to pledge the credit of their respective
banks-usually by cashiers' check, sometimes by certificates
of deposit or memoranda; that these transactions were f'equent, involving large sums of money, and that they were
uniformly conducted in fhith of the implied powers of cashiers, without inquiry; but the usage shown with regard to

608

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the powers exercised by the twenty-two cashiers failed wholly
to show that any one cashier had ever used his powers to the
purchase of gold coin, or had ever certified checks to be
"good."
Nor was it shown that the cashier of the State
Bank had, either before or since the transactions on which
this suit arose, ever certified as good the check of either
depositor or stranger.
In fact, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts had decided
in Mssey v. Eagle Bank* that a teller could not so certify
phecks; placing the decision on grounds that seemed general.
Such a power, said the court in that case, "is in fact a power
to pledge the -credit of the bank to its customers; a power
which, by the constitution of a bank, can alone be exercised
by its president and directors, unless specially delegated by
thein, and consequently it cannot be implied as a resulting
duty or authority in any individual officer." Touching the
matter of usage, the court said:

"But if a usage had been proved of the certifying by the
tellef that th6 check is good, to enable the holder to use it afterwards at his pleasure, such a-usage would be bad and could not
be upheld. It would.giveto bank checks, which are intended
for immediate use And are the-substitute for specie, in the ordinary transactions of businesk ~le character of bills of exchange,
payable to the bearer- the bapk being the acceptor, and payable
at an indefinite tine, It would lead to loans to favored individuals, without. the -usual security. It would substitute checks
for cash in the hands of tellurs who receive them, and would
confer the power upon.a single officer to pledge the credit of the
bank by the mere -;ting of his name; a power never contemplated by the legislature, nor intended to be confered by the
stockholdvrs-'"
On the other hand, Congress, by its Internal Revenue
Act of Jnne 30, 1864,t under the head of" Banks and Banking," had lIid "a duty of -one-twelfth of one per cent. each
month upon the average amount of circulation issued by any
bank, &c., including as circulation all eertfied checks, and all
*

Mtcal,
0 313

9 Metcalf, 818.

1

ta,

a

arer28

t 13 Stat. at Large, 278.

Dee. 1870.]

MERCIHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

609

St. cent of the case.

notes and other obligations, calculated or intended to circulate or to be used as money."
In this state of pre-existent laws and usage, or-absence of
it, the plaintifft' evidence showed that the Merchants'
National Bank of Boston Were applied to on the 22d of February, 1867, by Ward, Mellon & Qo., brokers, with the statement that they wereoabout to purchase in New York, "for
responsible parties," three or four hundred thousand dollars
of gold, and with the request that the Merchants' Bank
would take and pay for the golas it came from New York
at $1.25 in currency (about 15 per cent. below the value at
that time inlcurrency); that these responsible parties would
be prepared to take it in a few &is, and1 that When thus
taken away, it would go through probably some other bank,
mentioning, perhaps, the State Batik.
There had been previous transactions in gold between the
bank and Mehlei, Ward & Co.; and the proposition now
made was accepted upon the terms previously fixed in them,
viz., that the gold should be a purchase Iy the bank, with
a right of repurchase by Mellon, Ward & Co.,.on repayment
of the cost and a premium "' equivalent to interest on the
amount invested by the bank ott the gold."
Under this arrangement, the Merchants' Batik, on notice
from Mellon, Ward & Co., on the 26th and 27th of February,
took from the Second National Bank, and paid that banl
for the same, $400,000 gold certificates, which, so far as up.
peared, had never beeni in the hands of or owned by Mellen',
Ward & Co., and added the same to the gold of -the bank.
No obligation, note or memorandum accompanied the transaction as made; it being, as the direct testimony of, the
cashier and teller of the Merchants' Batik stated, and so far
as the transaction appeared on its face, a sale of gold with a
right to repurchase; although both the officers named, in
written instruments, spoke of it as a loan.
On the 28th of February, Smith, the cashier of the State
Bank, came to the Merchants' Bank, in company withiCartcr,
VOL. X.

89

610

MERCHANTS' BANK V.

STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

one of the firm of Mellen, Ward & Co., and said to the
cashier there, "We have come in to get an amount of gold,"
and that he "would pay for the gold bycertifying the checks
when he saw that the gold was all right." The coin certificates to the amount of $400,000 were by the cashier of
the Merchants' Bank, "passed out to Mr. Smith, cashier of
the State Bank." He counted them, and then handed to the
cashier of the Merchants' Bank the two checks of Mellen,
Ward & Co., on the State Bank, certified "Good, C. H.
Smith, cashier." These checks were certified, not at the
State Bank, but in the Merchants' Bank, "on the spot;"
and after it was ascertained that the gold certificates received coirresponded with the amount for which the checks
had been drawn. They had no stamp on them but the
usual two cent bank check stamp, that is to say no such
stamp as the law requires for an acceptance. On the same
day, Smith, the cashier of the State Bank (Carter accompanying him) applied to and received from the teller of the Merchants' Bank $60,000 more of gold, which the bank had
previously purchased at the request of Mellen, Ward & Co.,
upon the same terms as above stated. The cashier was
absent, and the teller took from Smith in payment a check
for $75,000, similar to ones already mentioned, for the reason, as he says, that "I delivered the gold to the cashier of
the State Bank." Although it appeared that Mellen, Ward
& Co. had been somewhat speculating in a copper stock, and
had once obtained a loan on it from the Merchants' Bank,
and that the. cashier of the bank had a small interest with
them in the stock, there seemed to be no proof in the case
as it stood before this court, that is to say as it was presented
by the plaintiff's evidence alone, that the cashier of the Mer.chants' Bank, in the delivery of the gold, or the cashier of
the State Bank in certifying the checks in payment for it,
acted otherwise than with good faith.
On or before the 1st of February following, Ward, Mellen
& Co. failed. The subsequent history of the checks was
thus given by Mr. Haven, the president of the plaintiff or
Merchants' Bank.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

611

Statement of the case.

"The first time I saw these checks was a little after twelve
o'clock, on Friday,. the 1st day of March, 1867. I took the
checks in my hand a little after one o'clock, on that day, and
presented them to the cashier of the State Bank. I said to him,
'I thought you were coming in to pay the money for these
..checks early this morning.' The cashier replied, 'Yes, I am
going'out now to attend to it, and get the money.' 'Get the
money?' said I; 'didn't you have the money-the gold? were
not the gold certificates delivered to you?' 'Yes,' said he; 'I
had them here, but they are not here now. I am going out to
get it, and will come in and attend to it.' I spoke rather abruptly, and said that le should do it immediately. He looked
up and said, 'You hold th~e State Bank.' I came back and laid
the checks on the desk of the teller. About a quarter before
two o'clock I took the checks into the directors' room of the
State Bank. There were three or four gentlemen present.
Either Mr. Me regor (who was a former president of the bank)
or Mr. Dana, introduced me to the president of the bank, Mr.
Stetson. I presented the checks to Mr. Stetson, th6 president.
Mr. Stetson took the checks and deliberately read them, one
by one, aloud to his directors, and those gentlemen who were
present. He then said to me that they had not authorized
their cashier to certify checks. He turned to Mr. McGregor
and said, 'Have we, Mr. McGregor?. Mr. McGregor made no
reply. I then said, 'He has certified checks, and those checks
were given, to the cashier of the Merchants' Bank for gold delivered to him, the property of the Merchants' Bank, and I want
payment for that gold.' The gentlemen were considerably excited, and I wanted action. I said to them, 'I have just heard
that there is trouble at the sub-treasury. I think you had
.better go down there; perhaps you will find your gold there,
and if you Wish it, I will go with you.'

The gentlemen went,

twp of them, Mr. Stetson, the president of the bank, and Mr.
--McGregor, the ex-president, and we entered the room of the
assistant treasurer. I think I introduced them, saying to the
assistant treasurer, 'These gentlemen have come in to see if
there has not been a large amount of gold placed to thecredit
of the State Bank.'"
Farther than as it was to be inferred from thi8 testimony,
it did not appear whether the State Bank had or had not

612

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Merchants' Bank.

got the use of the gold. No proof was given that it did not
go to that bank. However, that particular fact might have
been, the State Batik refused to pay thecchecks of Mellen,
Ward & Co., certifiqd "good" by Smith, its cashier, and
the Merchants' Bank sued in assumpsit for the amount;
some of the counts being special on the transaction, others
on a quantum valebat, mocny had and received, &c.
The case was tried before CLIFFORD, Presiding Justice,
and the plaintiff having closed his case, the defendants
moved the court to instruct the jury that the evidence was
not sufficient to warrant them to find a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff; under any or the counts in the declaration, and
that as matter of law, the verdict of the jury upon each of
them should be for the defendant; and this instruction the
court gave.
The case being brought here on error, was elaborately
argued at the last term.
Messrs. S. Bartlett, J. G. Abbott, and TV. fL Ebvarls, for the
plaiitiff in error:
The contest turns, itis submitted, upon the following propositions, which, if successfully maintained by the plaintiff,
are decisive on the question whether the case was properly
withdrawn from the jury :
1. If in the absence of regulation by charter, by-law, or

vote, and with no evidence as to the powers actually exer.
cised by the cashier, and acquiesced in by the bank, nor of
the powers usually intrusted to cashiers of banks established
in the same community, the court can judicially know what
the powers and duties of such cashiers are; yet it is a principle perfectly well settled, that under the foregoiih circumstances (and even when by-laws and votes on this subject
exist), evidence of the powers habitually or usually exercised by the cashier, with the knowledge and acquiescence
of the bank, defines and establishes as to the public these
powers, provided that the powers thus exercised may, without violation of the charter, be by the directors or corpora*
tion conferred on such cashier.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

613

Argument for the Merchants' Bank.

2. The evidence ofired by the plaintiffs at the trial of the
cause was competent and sufficient to have bcen submitted
to the jury, on which they might lawfully find that the
powers habitually or usually exercised by the defendants'
cashier, with their knowledge, embraced the power to make
for the defendaiits, the contracts declared on or some one or
more of them, aind that such powers might, without violation of the charter or law, be confided to such cashier.
1. The soundness of the first of the above propositions is
obvious. To hold that the public mayi not safely confide in
the existence of powers NN
hich by charter can be lawfully
delegated, arid which are openly exercised, but must investigate and find if those powers have been the sulbject of bylaw or vote, and act accordingly, would not only s1nopen d
the business of commerce, but tend to make transactions
with corporations a snare and a cheat.* So far as the public
are concerned it is immaterial whether the powers thus exercised are in disregard of tie by-laws of the corporation
or not, provided they are within the corporate powers conferred by the charter.t
2. Then was the evidence offered by the plaintiffs competent and sufficient to be submitted to a jury in support of
the claims made by the declaration ?
The main original contract (laying aside for the present
the question of certified checks), and of which, eviduence
(sufficient at least to be submitted to the jury) was offered
by the plaintiffi, was a contract for the purchase and delivery
of gold by the plaintiffs to the defendants. The charters of
both banks in terms authorized them to carry on the business of ba~uking, by '' buying and selling exchange, coin and bullion"," so that the contract set up by plaintiffs was within the
Bank of the United States v.Dandridge, 12 Wheaton, 61-70; Minorv.
Bank of Alexandria, 1 Peters, 46-70; Wild v. Bank of Passamaquoddy, 3
Masan. 505; Nicoll v. American Insurance Company, 3 Woodbury & Minot,
630; (Maule, J.) in Smith v. Hull Glass Company, 8 C. B., 668, S. C. 11 Id.
897.
t Agar v. Atheneum Insurance Company, 3 0. B. (N. S.) 725; Royal
Bank, &c. v.Turquand, 6 Ellis & Blackburn, 327; Prince of Wales Insurance Company v. Atheneum Insurance Company, 3 C. B. (N. S.) 75f, note.

MERCHANTs'

BANK V. STATE. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Merchants' Bank.

corporate powers of both parties. The transaction then
being legitimate, and in its character forming part of the
business of both banks, the principal question is, have the
plaintiffi lost this large sum of money by improperly trusting in the assumed powers of the defendants' cashier. The
buying and selling of gold must of coui'se be intrusted, under
general powers, to some officer of the bank. A vote of di-"
rectors authorizing each daily or hourly transaction would
be impracticable. In this attitude of the case, we ask attention to the evidence offered by us as to the powers habitually
exercised with the knowledge of the defendants by their
cashier, to the end that the correctness of the ruling wi'thdrawing the case from the jury may be determined; and
attention also to the evidence of the officers of numerous
other National banks established at Boston, as to the powers
and duties usually exercised by their cashiers in dealing with
the public and with other banks. The competency of this
evidence has been thus declared by this court.*
"Considering that all insurance companies in Boston have
similar charters, and the same kind of officers to cbnduct their
business, we think that there is competent evidence that presidents of insuranco companies in that city are generally held out
to the public as having authority to act in this matter, viz., to
make oral insurance."
The legal principles that are to govern the application of
the testimony in the case we submit, are these:
Where the authority of an agent is left to be inferred by
the public from powers usually exercised by the agent, it is
sufficient ifthe transaction in question involves precisely the same
generalpowers though applied to a new subject-niktter. Weire
this otherwise, the general authority to make purchases in
the usual course of the business of the principal, could never
be relied on, unless upon proof of previous purchase of the
identical article, the authority to purchase which is in conCommercial Insurance Company v. Union Insurance Company, 19
Howard, 818.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

615

Argument for the Merchants' Bank.

troversy Thus if it be shown that the defendants' cashier
had habitually, with the knowledge of the bank, dealt with
the public as authorized to buy and sell exchange, and still
more if that power is shown to have been habitually exercised by the cashiers of all other banks established in the
same community and " having similar charters," then the
power to buy and sell gold (the right to do both which is
conferred by the same clause of the charter) may be inferred
by the jury.
Again, if a cashier is shown to have usually or frequently

pledged in wriling the credit of the bank in the usual course of
business, with the knowledge of the bank, and such is shown
to be the usage of other banks, as before stated, it is evidence from which the jury may infer that he is authorized
to pledge that credit in all transactions authorized by the
charter, and which could lawfully be intrusted to a cashier.
It is not contended by the plaintifT that a power to buy
may be inferred from an exercise of a power to sell, however
frequent that exercise may have been, nor that a power to
indorse may be showi from i. umerous instances of signature
as promissor. The contracts in such cases are wholly dissimilar; acts distinct in their nature. But when the powers
exercised are shown to be of the same character, involving

both in form and substance the same identical obligation, and the
sarneconsequenceto the principal, and in the course of' his business, it cannot be necessary to show that in their previous
exercise they have been applied to contracts for the same
article.*
The American Leading Casest thus speak:
"With regard to the limits of the general agency, which is
created by a series of acts or course of dealing, the language of
Lord Eldon's, in Davison v. Bobertson,t has generally been considered as defining the principle with accuracy. In that case
the position had been stated that an' indorsement per procuration required a special mandate, but Lord Eldon's opinion was,
" Tripp v. Swanzey Manufacturing Company, 13 Pickering, 291.
" Edition 1857, p. 573.

1 3 Dow, 219, 229.

616

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Ierchants' Bank.
that no such thing was absolutely necessary: 'for if'from the
general nature of the acts permitted to be done, the law would
infer an auth6rity ; the law would say that such 'an authority
might exist without a special mandate.'
The author goes on to say:
"This is illustrated in Commercial Bank of Erie v. Norton."*
In the case thus cited, Cowen, J., states the exact principles thus :
"It is not necessary, in order to constitute a general agent,
that he should have done before an act the same in specie with that
in question. If' he has usually done things of the same general
character and effect with the assent of his principals, that will be
enough."
The doctrine thus stated was in that case applied where
the agent of a firm, who with their knowledge and assent,
was in the habit of draiwing bills and making notes and indorsements for them, had made an a(ceptance, bat no proof
was offered that he had-ever pretqously made an acceptance. The
principal was charged. The case is cited as sound, in Parson's Mercantile Law,t and Paley's Agency.j In Watkhs
v. Vince,ยง Lord Ellenboroughi
carried the doctrine so far as
to hold that a son who had signed for his fitther in three or
four instances and had accepted bills, could bind the father
by a guarantee. In Prescott v. Flinn,j C. J. Tindall says:
"It may be admitted that an authority to draw
part in itself an authority to indorse bills, but still
of such authority to draw is not to be withheld from
are to determine on the whole evidence, whether such
indorse exists or not."

does not imthe evidence
the jury, who
authority to

The evidence to which these principles are to be applied,
appears in the statement of the case.
It shows that the
cashier of the defendants was intrusted by them with powers
- 1 Hill, 502.
2 Starkie, 824.

t Page 136, note.
119 Bingham, 22.

I Edition of 1856, p. 169, note.
See it supra, p. 607.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

617

Argument for the Merchants' Bank.

the largest and most comprehensive in dealing wifh the
funds of the bank, giving its checks, pledging its credit, and
making its contracts and purchases. Similar powers were
openly and habitually exercised by the cashiers of banks in
Boston, in the dealings of such banks with each other.
In view of such proofs, we ask if it ought to be determ-ined
that thjere was no legal competent evidence proper to be submitted to a jury, from which they might infer that, as among
the wide powers openly exercised by Smith, the defendants'
cashier, in numerous instances and for large amounts, was
the authority to purchase exchange, he had or not also intrusted to him the power to purchase gold, and thus to find
their verdict for the plaintiffs upon the counts framed uponsuch purchase?
We next submit, that upon the evidence the question,
whether the defendants" cashier, clothed as he was with the
powers stated in the proofs, had or not the incidental power to
certify the checks declared on, was fit to be submitted to
the j ury.
In discussing this point we assume that there was evidence competent to le submitted to the jury to show the
large powers intrusted to the cashier to pledge the credit
of the bank-that the -jury might well find that lie had
power to make the purchase of gold from the plaintiffs, and
that .hie might have given a cashier's check on his own bank,
a certificate of deposit, or a credit for the purchase-money.
Now, the form of pledging the credit of the bank at the
moment the gold was received, viz., by certifying the checks
of the parties for whom the arrangement was made, is of the
same character and nature as a cashier's certificate of deposit,
checks, itr memorandums of credit, referred to in the history
as to usage. Like these, it is an absolute and not a contin.
gent promise to pay, and in view of the wide powers exercised by the defendants' cashier, the jury had a legal right
to infer that this mode of pledging the credit of the bank,
suited as it was to the circumstances (the cashier having full
authority to make the purchase),,was within his delegated
powers.

618

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Merchants',Bank.

The view of the court below rests on the doctrine, that
if a charter Prescribes the mode in which the officers of the
bank must act or contract, that mode must be strict 4y pursued, and the power cannot be delegated. But this doctrine
has no application in this cause, since the National Currency
Act prescribes neither the mode nor the officers by whom
the acts or contracts necessary to the course of business
shall be made, but merely confines the general oversight
and management to a board of directors.
This precise question as to power of the directors to authorize'other officers of a bank, by a general vote, to exercise in the name of the bank, at all times, the power to borrow
money and give notes, has been raised and carefully discussed
in a case where the charter, in terms, provided " the affairs
of the company shall be conducted by the directors," and
the careful judgment of Chief Justic'e Tilghman, displaying,
as it does, the practical difficulties wlich would arise from
a denial of the power, seems conclusive.*
If the power to borrow money, at all times, for the purposes of the bank, and give notes therefor, can be delegated
by the directors to the cashier, the power to purchase exchange and gold, in pursuance of the charter, can be so
delegated. Whether the power to delegate to a cashier authority to certify checks exist, has nowhere been settled,
As to conferring such authority on tellers by usage, the power
is negatived in Massachusetts,t while in New York it is settled that such power may be conferred,t and a statute of the
United States recognizes certified checks, and makes them
in common with the circulation subject of taxation.
Whether the control of the great leading buginess for
which a bank is created, viz., loans and discounts, can be
Ridgway v. Farmers' Bank, 12 Sergeant & Rawle, 256-261. As to the
incidental powers of banks to borrow money, see Beers v. Phoenix Glass
Company, 14 Barbour, 858.
t Mussey v. Eagle Bank, 9 Met. 306.
1 Farmers' and Mechanics' Biknk of Kent County, Maryland v. The

Butchers' and Drovers' Bank, 4 Duer, 219; affirmed on appeal, 16 New
York, 125; Willets v. Phcenix Bank, 2 Duer, 121.

Dec. i870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

619

Argument for the State Bank.

delegated, may be doubted. The prevailing practice known
and acted upon by the public, is to apply to a board of directors for discounts. But it does not follow that the whole of
the other functions of a bank can only be performed by a
vote of directors, upon each hourly transaction. The authorities cited above are repugnant to any such doctrine.
But if the power to certify was not under the evidence
fit to have been submitted to the jury, still the right to recover the purchase-money for the gold, stands unaffected by
the giving of the checks. They were received in the faith
that, in dealings of bank with bank, the defendants' cashier
had authority to certify them. If they were void, no payment has bean made. It is equivalent to a payment in
forged bills. The debt remains.
No proof was offered by defendants that the gold purchased of the plaintiffs-was not carried to the defendants'
bank and placed with their funds; although if it was not so,
the onus is on the defendants.
Proof that the gold was so carried and placed is found in

the occurrences on the occasion of the demand made at
defendants' bank of its cashier and of its directors. The
cashier of the defendants admitted that he had hadthe gold
certificates in their bank; and that the State Bank was held.
So at the interview of Mr. Haven with the defendants' directors, when he stated to them that their cashier had certified checks, and those checks were given to the cashier of
the Merchants' Bank for gold delivered to him, the property of the Merchants' Bank, and that he wanted payment
for that gold, there was no denial that the gold had been
received by the State Bank, but merely a statement that the
directors had not authorized their cashier to certify checks.
Messrs. B. R. Curtis, C. B. Goodrich, and B. F. Thomas,
contra, and in support of the ruling below:
The main question'is, whether the cashier had authority
to bind the defendants in the contracts declared on.
I. Had he authority to certify the checks?
It is clear that no express authority had been given to trim

620

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State Bunk.

to do so. Certainly no such power was conferred upon him
by the act of Congress, from which the corporation derives
all its powers and functions; for by it the entire control and
managernent of the bank are vested in the directors, and
with this view, both as to qualifications and responsibility,
their office and trust is most carefully guarded.
If, then, the cashier was authorized in any way to certify
the cheeks, lie must have been so through the action of the
directors. But no such power was conferred upon him by
any by-law; nor by any vote of the directors; no ratification
or sanction by the directors as a board, or separately, of the
use of such power by him ; no evidence that lie ever in a
single instance, before or since the acts in question,
made
any certificate upon any check of depositor or stranger.
1ow then, if at all, have the directors clothed him with
the power to make the contracts declared on ? They had
the power to appoint a cashier and to " define his duties."
But they had no power to transfer or make over to him the
duties and powers of the directors. They had power only
to point out, and (dfile what lie was to do, not trenching
upon but in just subordination to their own powers and
duties.
Though the power to define the duties of the cashier is
vested by the act of Congress with the directors, we concede
tiat the appointment or a cashier devolves upon him various
powers and duties. The inquiry then is as to their nature
and extent.
Speaking in general terms, they are executive and ministerial, not discretionary or quasijudicial. His function is to
carry into effect the contracts made by the directors, and to
execute their orders. If in carrying into execution the contracts and orders of the directors, his acts sometimes assume
the form of contracts, they are ancillary and accessory, and
not substantive and independent agreements.
It is plain that the appointment of cashier does not confer
upon the appointee any power, duty, or function which the
courts of law, and especially this court, have said do not
appertain to the office.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

621

Argument for the State Bank.

What, then, has been determined by this court on this
subject ?
In Fleckner v. Bank of the United States,* the earliest case,
the obligation of a bank for the acts of its cashier is limited
to those done in the ordinary course of business intrusted to
him.

In Minor v. The Mechanics'. Bank of Alexandria,t it was
held that no usage, even under the sanction of the board of
directors, would justify a cashier in allowing customers to
overdraw. The case at bar is not merely a case of overdrawing by a depositor, but a case of drawing to the amount
of- $500,000 by a firm who were not, so far as appears, depositors, and who had ilot and never had had funds in the
bank.

In Bank of the United States v. Dunn, this court hel, that
the president and cashier of a bank, acting together, had, no
power to bind the bank by a representation to an indorser
where there was collateral security, that he would not be
bound by his indorsement.

The United States v. The Bank of COlumbus,ยง recognizes
and affirms as settled law, that the making of a contract involving the payment of money, or the purchase or sale of
property, is not within the ordinary business of a cashier,
and that if a party relies upon such contract by a cashier,
he must show (at the least) a special delegation of power
from the directors. The court say:
"The term, ordinary business, with direct reference to the
duties of cashiers of banks, occurs frequently in English cases,
and in the reports of the decisions of our State courts, and in no
one of them has it been judicially allowed to comprehend a con.
tract made by a cashier without an express delegation of power
from a board of directors to do so, which involves the payment
of money, unless it be such as has been loaned in the usual and
8 Wheaton, 838.
t 1 Peters, 46.
: 6 Id. 61, and see United States v. The Bank of Columbus, 21 Howard,
856.
21 Howard, 856.

622

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument for the State Bank.

customary way. Nor has it ever been decided that a cashier
could purchase or sell the property, or create an agency of any
kind for a bank which he had not been authorized to make by
those to whom has been confided the power to manage its business, both ordinary and extraordinary."
It is vain to say that the contract in that case was ultra
vires. The case was neither argued nor decided on that
ground, but was argued and decided on the power of a
cashier to make the contract. The principles involved in
the decision are therefore authority in the case at bar.
The leading case in Massachusetts, where the contracts
sued on purport to have been made, is Mussey v. The Eagle
Bank.* The case, though arising as to a check certified by
a teller, in its reasonings and the principles affirmed, applies
as well to those by a cashier. The argument made here,that this certificate of "good," on the check, is but another
form of the exercise of a usage, so common in banks, of
granting a cei'tificate of deposit of money to the credit of a
third person, was made there. What say the court?
"We are of opinion, that usage of the one will not support the
practice of the other. The two practices, while having the appearance of resemblance, and although one may be used for the
same purpose as the other, in the form of a remittance, are, in
their character, essentially distinct."
And the court show wherein they are so.
The cases decided in New York do not really touch the
question of authority. They have no tendency to show that
the power to certify checks was inherent in the cashiers of
banks in .2Jassacliusetts, existing under the laws of the State,
or of the United States.
It is true that the 17th article of the by-laws of the State
Bank provides that "all contracts, checks, drafts, receipts,
&c., shall be signed either by the cashier or by the president." But the duty of' signing contracts is ministerial and
executive, not discretionary. The power to sign, without
* Supra, 608.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

(623

Argument for the State Bank.

more, excludes the idea of a power to make. The contracts
and the checks to be signed are the checks of the bank and
not of third persons.* The drawer of the check is the debtor
to the payee. It is his contract, he standing to the payee as
the maker of a promissory note or acceptor of a bill of exchange. The check does not contemplate or' require acceptance, and, in the usual course, is not accepted. Smith here
put his name upon contracts, which had their existence as
contracts when signed by Mellen, Ward,& Co. They were
in no sense contracts made by the directors, or which had
been prepared by them for signature by the cashier.
Nor does the production of a contract signed by the
cashier furnish primd facie evidence that the contract was
made by the proper authority. Though such presumption
may attach to payments made or received by the cashier
over the eounter of the bank, or other acts within the scope
of his ordinary business and duties, it is limited to them.
No rule of law is better settled than that a party contracting
with a corporation of limited and defined powers, or the
servant or agent of such corporation of limited agency, is
always -put upon his inquiry as to the extent of the power
of both principal and agent.t
The distinction between natural -and political persons in
this regard is obvious. A natural person may appoint an
agent to do what he may do himself. Not so with corporations. They can exercise no powers not delegated, and
must use them in the mode prescribed by their charter.
He who relies upon a contract as binding upon a corporation, when such contract can be made only by its directors,
must show affirmatively not only that the directors made it,
but that it is within the scope of their powers and duties.t
But a like rule of agency, applies even to natural persons.
Under certain circumstances an authority arises to an agent
v. Filica, 7 Manning & Granger, 513.
See, among other cases, Lowell Savings Bank v. Winchester, 8 Allen,
109; Zabriskie v. Cleveland, 23 Howard, 398; Pearce v. Madison, 21 Id.
443; Salem Bank, v. Gloucester Bank, 17 Massachusetts, 1.
4 Burnes v. Pennell, 2 House of Lords' Cases, 520, 521, 522.
*Fearn

MEICtORANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State Bank.

to do a certain act, but you must show the occurrence of
the circumstances before you can count upon his act. Familiar illustrations occur. -Ex. gr., the master of a ship
may give a bottomry bond under certain circuran;tances;
the lender must show the circumstances. The master may
sell in case of necessity; the purchaser must show the necessity. The master may give a bill of lading for goods put
on board; the holder must show that the goods were on
board. So a power to draw and indorse bills for and in
the name of the principal will not authorize a drawing or
indorsing in his name for the accommodation of third
persons.*
The plaintiffs argue that the defendants, by putting a
cashier into the bank, and not defining or restricting his
powers, held him out to the world as the organ of the bank
for doing the business of banking, and that, therefore, any
acts done by him in carrying on the business of banking, as
receiving deposits or buying and selling gold, are -at least
prim6 ficie valid. But the directors have done no such
thing; they put the cashier into their bank as cashier, they
held him out as cashier, and nothing more. The appointment to the office of cashier was a limitation of his powers.
Whosoever dealt with the bank was bound to know the law,
and especially a bank organized under the same laws, and
doing business at its side. The defendants neither did nor
could hold themselves out except as a banking association
organized under the act of Congress, with the powers given
by and to be exercised in the manner prescribed by that act.
That the putting a cashier behind the counter of a bank
gives him no power to bind the batik, by representing that
he has power to do what he cannot lawfully do, is plain.
There could be no effectual definition or restriction of the
powers of an agent if his representation of what he is authorized to do is to bind the principal. Though as to statements of fhcts on matters falling clearly within the agent's
See the distinctions set forth in 1 American Leading Cases, 4th ed., 549,
Batty v. Carswell, Peck v. Harriott, and note.

Dec.

1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.
Argument for the State Bank.

sphere of power and duty, he may bind the principal; that
is the outside limit. Something more then was necessary
to be shown than putting Smith into the bank as cashier,
and a failure to define all his duties.
If the power to make these contracts was not inherent in
the office of cashier, and the directors have not defined or
pointed it out as one of his functions, it could not spring
out of their silence. It was not necessary for the directors
to negative its existence, because there was neither law nor
usage to require them.
Then, have the directors so conducted themselves as to
their cashier and, third persons, as to warrant them in believing that the cashier had been so authorized? They have
not acquiesced in the use of the specific power, for there is
no evidence that the cashier ever certified a check before or
since h'e certifiefd those in suit.
The plaintiffs' evidence is offered to show that defendants' cashier had been permitted to make contracts pledging
the credit of the bank, and that it was the usage or course
of business for cashiers in Boston to make such contracts.
From the existence of a power to make the class of contracts
testified of, they would infer a power to make the contracts
sued upon. So far as the evidence concerns the conduct of
the State Bank and its relations with its cashier, it tends to
show that the cashier had, before these transactions, been
accustomed to borrow money of other banks to make up deficiencies at the clearing-house and give his check therefor;
to lend money for 'the same purpose, and receive a cashier's
check therefor; to sell exchange on New York, and to draw
on the bank's correspondent fbr the same; to buy exchange
on New York, and give a cashier's check for the same, and
(when discounts had been made) to give checks in lieu of
bills to customers of the bank. But none of these acts, if
proved to have been done by the cashier of his own motion,
would have any tendency to show or warrant the jury in
finding, that Smith had authority to go to the Merchants'
Bank and certify cliecks of Mellen, Ward & Co., given to it
in payment of a previous loan to them, or in payment for
VOL. X.

40

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the State Bank.

gold which the Merchants' Bank was under contract to sell
to them. The calling of the cashiers of twenty-two banks
to prove the borrowing of other banks and giving checks
therefor, and the purchase and sale of New York exchange,
and the absence of evidence of the certifying of a single
check by a cashier, is the most forcible of negatives pregnant. It shows not merely that there is no evidence in the
case, but that none was to be had.
So far as the evidence tends to show a usage or course
of business, it clearly marks and defines it, and the line of
demarcation falls outside of the class of acts counted upon
by the plaintiff.
But it is asserted that the classes of acts shown to have
been done by the defendants' cashier, and the acts sued
upon, though not alike in form, are alike in principle in this
regard, that they both pledge the credit of 'the principal.
Seemingly there are few agencies, general or limited,
which do not more or less concern and involve the credit of
the principal; but a power to pledge the credit of the principal for one purpose has no tendency to show the power to
pledge it for another and distinct purpose. If A. authorizes
B. to buy cotton on time, and he buys wool, or even real
estate, all these acts assume to pledge the credit of A., but
only the first does pledge it. The law does not extend or
expand the powers of agents by analogy. On no subject are
its rules of limitation more rigid.
Moreover we object to what constitutes the principal part
of the evidence of the plaintiffs, the testimony of the cashiers
of banks in Boston, as to the powers exercised by those
cashiers, as incompetent and immaterial. The plaintiff cannot show that the defendant bank had conferred a substantive power upon their cashier, by showing that cashiers of
other banks used such powe r; aforiori not by showing that
cashiers of other banks used powers entirely distinct from
the one relied upon.
In appointing a cashier, the directors charged him with
the powers and duties which the law had declared to be inherent in the office of cashier. As to modes and f6rms of

Dec. 1870.1

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

627

Argument for the State Bank.

business, they authorized him to follow the usage and custom of the city of the bank's location, so far as they did not
conflict with positive law. But these were the outside limits. To say because cashiers of debtor banks borrow ,money
of creditor banks at the clearing-house to make up their
balances, or buy or sell exchange on New York, that therefore the cashier of the defendant batik could by certifying
checks pledge the credit of the bank without limit, for persons who were not depositors at the bank, who had no funds
there, lending in effect not merely more than a tenth, but
nearly one-third of the bank's capital, contrary to the 29th
section of the National Currency Act, by acts done outside of the banking-house or office where its business was
by law to be transacted, without the knowledge of the directors or any one of them, or of any other officer of the
bank, without any coilsideration to the bank for the responsibility assumed, paid or promised-is not merely to make the
cashier the bank, but to take the bottom out of the bank
itself.
Mellen, Ward & Co. not being depositors, having no account with the State Bank, had no right to draw a check
upon that bank, and its cashier had no power to receive or
recognize it. Paying the check of a depositor to the extent
of his deposit is but paying as the bank has agreed to pay.
Paying the check of a non-depositor, or guaranteeing its
payment, is doing just what the bank had never agreed to
do. Nor does it follow because the cashier might pay or
guaranty the payment of a check where there were funds,
he could do it where there were not.* There is no evidence
of any agreement of Mollen, Ward & Co. and the defendants' cashier to place the gold coin or gold certificates in the
defendant bank. Mr.Haven, indeed, the president of the
Merchants' Bank, testifies that at noon on the 1st of March,
in the State Bank, he asked Smith, its cashier, "if he did
* Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank v. Butchers' and Drovers' Bank, 16
New Yoi-k, 125; Schooner Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 Howard, 182;
Lowell Savings Bank v. Winchester, 8 Allen, 109; Grant v. Norway, 10
Common Bench, 665.

28

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State Bank.

not have the money? if the gold certificates were not delivered to him?" and that Smith said: "Yes, I had them
here, but they are not here now." Giving full force to this
testimony, it is, that Smith had the certificates with him in
the bank edifice, not that they were ever mingled with the
funds of the bank. As the cashier had no authority to buy
the gold for the State Bank, or contract for its deposit there,
that bank could not be responsible for it, until with the
knowledge and assent of the directors it had been mingled
with the bank's own funds.* And as the cashier had no
authority to deal with the gold, either by purchase or receiving it on deposit for Mellen, Ward & Co. to draw upon
it, he clearly has not the power to bind the bank by any
declarations concerning the transaction. In addition to
which, when Smith made this declaration he was not acting
as agent of the bank.
If it be said that the certificate of the cashier is prim4 facie
evidence that the drawers were depositors, and had-funds to
meet the checks, it comes to the same thing, as asserting
that a cashier has power to certify where the drawers were
not depositors, or had no credit at the bank.
The relation created by depositing money in a bank is
that of debtor and creditor,-the depositor, the creditor; the
bank, the debtor. The money deposited becomes the money
of the bank. The depositor has for it the promise of the
bank to pay him so much money on his orders or checks.
The relation is the result, then, of contract. When a cashier
or teller pays the check of a depositor having credit at the
bank, he pays as the bank has promised; every dollar that
is thus paid out discharges so much of the debt due the depositor from the bank. The cashier is but executing the
contract of the bank. When the cashier accepts the draft
or check of a non-depositor, a new and different contract is
entered into. The bank agrees to advance or lend so much
money to the drawer. The bank becomes the creditor, and
Bank, 10 Gray, 532; Skinner v. Mer* Atlantic Bank v. Merchants'
chants' Bank, 4 Allen, 290.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE

BANK.

629

Argument for the State Bank.

the drawer of the check the debtor. It is not enough to
say the two thbings differ; there is no resemblance between
them. The ba)k may be very willing to have A. its creditor, and very unwilling to have him its debtor.
A specific objection to the givinjg to the cashier the power
to accept these drafts, or the exercise of it by the directors
themselves, is, that it clearly contravenes the provisions of
the 29th section of the Batnking Act. It would create a
liability of Mellen, Ward & Co. to the defendant bank, exceedinig one-tenth part of the capital of the bank; to the
extent, indeed, of nearly a third of the capital.
II. Then, as to the sale of gold certificates and coin to the
State Bank through its agent and cashier, Smith. The considerations, as to the power of the cashier to enter into contracts by certifying the checks, already suggested, apply with
equal force here. The cashier had no authority to make the
purchase; none under the act of Congress, none under the
by-laws, none under any vote of the directors, none under
the oral consent of the directors, or any one of them, none
under any piactice or any one precedent of his own. There
is no evidence that the State Bank ever engaged in the business of buying and selling gold, or so held themselves out
to the public. Though the statute permits it does not require
the bank to deal in gold. It is for the directors to decide
whether they will enter upon this business or not; without
their consent, express or implied, the cashier could not do it.
If the cashier had made the most formal purchase of the
plaintiffs' gold, the defendants could not be holden. If the
directors had received the gold coin or certificates, and had
not within a reasonable time, or on reasonable request, returned them, the barik might be charged with their value.
But the putting them into the hands of Smith (if proved) is
nothing; for if Smith had no authority to make the contract for the gold, lie certainly was not the defendants'
agent to receive the gold. Nor would the delivery to, and
receipt of the gold or gold certificates by the defendants'
cashier, when absent from the bank, create a deposit for
Mellen, Ward & Co., or render the bank liable on any ira-

630

MERCHANTS'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State Bank.

plied assumpsit to the owner. If one delivers money to the,
cashier of a bank when absent from the bank, to deposit, or
to pay a note in the bank, he makes the cashier his agent
to deposit or pay; and if the money be lost or stolen before
it reaches the bank, the bank is not liable.*
This rule, appti.'able to banks generally, has peculiar force
to one organized under the United States Banking Act,
wheh requires that "its usual business shall be transacted
at an office or banking-house located in the place specified
in its orgamization certificate."
If the cashier of the State Bank had the power to purchase,
the Merchants' Bank had no right to selL Mellen, Ward &
Co. had a right to the gold at any time by paying the advance. The Merchants' Bank had the right at any time to
demand the payment of the money. Interest was to be paid
on the sum advanced. No matter what name the parties
give to the transaction, these essential featares remain and
show conclusively a loan. But whether a loan or conditional
sale is not important. Mellen, Ward & Co., it is certain, had
a right to receive the gold upon payment of. the amount
advanced, with interest. Neither the bank nor Smith had
such right. If Smith was not an agent to contract, he was
not to receive. At the time of the delivery, Carter and
Smith were present. Carter said he, had come in for his
gold; it was delivered. The delivery in contemplation of
law was to Carter, the only person present competent to
receive. Whether the manual caption was by Carter or
Smith is immaterial.t"
The payment, it' any was made, was made by Mellen,
Ward & Co. The checks were their checks, none the less
after the certificates than before. If the word " good" can
be treated as a guaranty by the bank, Mellen, Ward & Co.
were the principals. If the checks, when certified, were
acceptances of the bank, yet ifi contemplation of law they
were drafts on and to be paid from their funds in the hands
Manhattan Company v. Lyd(ig, 4 Johnson, 37 ; Bullar..v. Randall, 1
Gray, 605; Thatcher v. Bank of Sthgte of New York, 5 Sandford, 121.
- tFrost v. Cloutmap et ux., 7 New Hampshire, 15.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

631

Reply.

of the bank, charged to account of Mellen, Ward & Co., and
of course their property.
Other objections, somewhat more technical, may be sug
gested.
(a) The certificates having been made by the cashier when
absent from the banking-house, were in violation of the 8th
section of the act of Congress requiring its business to be
done at its office or banking-house. None of the presumptions which would attach to payments made, or other acts
done over the bank's counter, apply to these.
(b)Certified checks.are against the policy of the Banking
Act, which prohibits the issue of bills exceeding 90 per cent.
of the bonds deposited. It is familiar history that certified
checks have been used chiefly, if not wholly, to eke out. a
currency larger than the act allows.
They are equally illegal and void, as within the prohibition of the 23d section of the Banking Act, which forbids
any banking association to issue post notes, or any other
notes, to circulate as money than such as are authorized by
the act. It is sufficient to bring the certified checks within
the provision that they are capable of being so used, and
that the general purpose fbr which they had been used was
a substitute for bills.
(c) The written contracts relied upon could not be offered
in evidence, because not duly stamped. If the certificates
were valid, and to bind the bank, they engrafted upon the
checks new and distinct contracts, to wit, acceptances of bills,
,and must be stamped as such.

Reply: The defendant's view is, that in the absence of
definition by charter, by-law, or vote, the law prescribes the
extent and limit of the powers of a cashier. But this view
is not supported either by principle or authority.
Doubtless there exist classes of commercial agencies,
whose powers and duties are so fixed and defined by the
common law, after ages of judicial proof and investigation,
that they are not only no longer the subject of inquiry but
cannot be varied and controlled as against the public by

632

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

proof of special contract limiting those powers. Such are
partners, shipmasters, brokers, factors, &c. The powers
and duties of such agenfs are fixed by the law, not in the
absence of powers prescribed by writing or contract (as is
claimed for cashiers), but in utter disregard of such prescription. But a cashier, the offspring of modern commerce, is,
as stated by Baron Parke of bill brokers, "not a character
known to the law with certain prescribed duties, but his
employment is one that depends entirely on the course of
dealing. It may differ in different parts of the country.
The nature of these powers and duties in any instance, is a
question of fhct, and is to be determined'by the usage and
course of dealing in the particular place."*
That this is the precise doctrine applicable to cashiers is
obvious, since even the defendants must admit that, in the
absence of regulations by charter, by-law, or vote, the powers
and duties of a cashier may be shown by the course of dealing lawfully committed to his charge by the bank. :Now if
this be so, defendants' proposition must be, that in the absence of all regulation by charter or vote, and of all evidence
of the powers actually exercised by a cashier with the knowledge and ratification of the bank, the law prescribes the
powers of a cashier. The value of which doctrine, if true,
will appear, whensoever such a state of facts shall (if ever)
occur.
But in no one of the cases decided by this court and relied on by the defendants, has the court attempted to rest
its decision upon an assumed judicial knowledge of the common law powers and duties of a cashier, where the acts in
question were within the pale of the charter. There are in
several of the cases recitals of what the court suppose are
the ordinary powers of cashiers, but no judicial decision has
turned upon those recitals.
In .Fleclkerv. Bank of United Slates,t an early case, the question was, whether a cashier had a right to indorse the note
* Foster c. Pearson, I Crompton, Mdeson & Roscoe, 858.
t 8 Wheaton, 860-1-2.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK

V.

STATE BANK.

G33

Reply.

in suit. In the course of the judgment it is said: "We are
very much inclined to think" that the indorsement falls within
the ordinary duties and rights of a cashier, at least if his office
be lice that of similar institutions. "The cashier is usually," &c.
"It does not seem too much to infer." "But waiving this consideration." The case is decided on another ground.
Minor v. Bank of Alexandria,* was debt on a cashier's
bond; the defence set up a usage sanctioned by directors, t6
allow parties to overdraw, and the case was decided on the
ground that it was "a usage to misapply the funds of the
bank and connive at their withdrawal, and could not be suppdrted by any vote of the directors, however formcl." The case
states with great fulness the rights of the public in dealing
with the officers of banks. "The ordinary usage and practice of a bank, in the absence of counter proof, must be supposed to result from regulations prescribed by the board of
directors, &c. It would be not only inconvenient, but perilous,
for the customers or any other persons dealing with the bank, to
transact thcir business with the officers upon any other presumption. The officers of a bank are held out to the public as
having authority to act according to the general us ,ge, practice, and course of their business, and their acts within the
scope of such usage, would bind the bank in fivor of third
persons having no other knowledge."
Then follows next the case of -Bank of the United States v.
Dunn,t in which the defence was set up by an indorser that
prior to the discount of the note, both the -president and
cashier represented to him that the note was secured and his
liability no-Ainal. The evidence was held as inadmissible,
both as contradicting the note and upon the ground that
"all discounts are made under the authority of directors, and it
is for them to fix any conditions." " The agreement was not
made by persons who have power to bind the bank in such
cases, nor have they power to bind the bank except in discharge of the ordinary duties." There is no other or further
remark in the case as to powers of cashiers.
* 1 Peters, 72.

f 6 Peters, 51.

634

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE *BANK.

[SUp. Ct.

Reply.

The last case is the United States v. Bank of Columbus.*
The question at issue was the authority of the cashier to
contract with the United States in the name of the bank for
the gratuitous transfer of $100,000 from New York to New
Orleans. The important feature of the case as showing that
it really decided a question of corporate powers is, that there
was no offri of evidence to show the extent and character of
the functions actually intrusted in the course of its business
by this bank to its cashier, from which the inference might
be drawn whether the bank had or haa not intrusted him
with powers involving the same principle.

It has been determined by the same judge who delivered
the opinion of this court in, United States Bank v. Dunn,
relied on by defendants, that " the cashier of a bank authorized by its charter to deal in bills of exchange, may accept
such bills as the agent of the bank. This is in the scope of
his agency, and is sanctioned by universal usage."t
It is argued:
(a) That in view of the testimony as to the transaction by
which the gold was delivered to the defendants' cashier,.it
was not and could not be intended or legally held to be a
sale or delivery of the gold by the plaintifi to the defendants.
(b)That ac a matter of law the transaction by which the
plaintiTh originally received the gold, under the arrangement with Mellen, Ward & Co., must be held to be a loan
by the plaintiff on a pledge of the gold, and that, considered
as a loan, it violated the provisions of section twenty-nine
of the National Currency Act, and by reason thereof the
plaintiffs cannot by law maintain a suit for the price of the
gold under the sale to defendants.
1st. Tihe ground on which the defendants assert that the
question whether there was a sale of gold to defendants, is
not to be submitted to the jury, is that there was in legal
21 Howard, 356.
t Lafayette Bank v. State Bank of Illinois, 4 McLean, 208.
Sturges v. Bank of Circleville, 11 Ohio State, 163.

See also

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

685

Reply.

contemplation no evidence of such sale, but that the court
must rule, as matter of law, that it was a sale and delivery
to Mellen, Ward & Co.
This view assumes, for the purposes of the argumenti that
the contract of plaintiffs with Mellen, Waid & Co. was a
contract to purchase the gold, with an agreement as to the
right of Mellen, Ward & Co. to repurchase it. Now this
right to repurchase was capable of being transferred to the
defendants. Indeed the testimony shows that at the outset,
it was agreed or contemplated that it would be so trans-,
ferred "iin the course of a few days, and that the gold, when
taken away, would go through, probably, some other bank,
mentioning, perhaps, the State Bank." The transfer of this
right to the State Bank (within two days) was, in fact accomplished. There was a transfer to the State Bank of
Mellen, Ward & Co.'s right to repurchase the gold, and an
exercise of that right by their cashier. Nor does the fact
that the attempted payment was by checks of Mellon, Ward
& Co. certified by the defendants' cashier negative tIhe view
that the State Bank were purchasers. The inference, without further evidence, would be strong that they made the
same arrangement with Mellen, Ward & Co. as had been
previously made with them by the plaintiffs (perhaps upon
easier terms), as they agreed to pay the plaintiffs precisely
what the plaintifls had pait, viz., 125 per cent. The moment that the defendants got the gold, they had ftnids in
their hands, and the certified checks could be drawn against
those funds, and were drawn fbr the identical anmount which
the plaintiff s had agreed originally with Mellen, Waid & Co.
to pay.
But however all this might have appeared to a jury, it was
a question to be submitted to them.
2d. As to the defendants' other proposition, that the
arrangement between the plaintiffs and Mellen, Ward &
Co. must in law be held to be a loan, with a pledge of
the gold as security, it is submitted, that if there 1e any
evidence of the amount of their capital stock upon which
to rest the averments that if it were a loan, it exceeded

636

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

the quantum permitted by the 29th section of the National
Currency Act, such evidence was for a jury and not for a
court.
Certain features of the transaction are relied on by the
defendants which, if there were no direct evidence of what
the exact contract was, and that it was intended by both
parties to be a purchase and not a loan, might support, with
more or less strength, the position that in law such features
would constitute a loan. But the direct evidence of the
terms of the contract negatives any inference which the jury
might otherwise draw from these detached features. In
such a conflict the question is for the jury, with instructions
as to what facts, if found by them, would in law constitute
a loan, and what a purchase.
But assume that the court or a jury should arrive at the
conclusion that the transaction was a loan accompanied by
a pledge, can the State Bank avoid their contract to pay the
agreed price of their purchase of the pledge from us (an
agreement made with the assent of the pledgor) on the
ground that we received the pledge under a contract with
the pledgor, which is illegal? Or can a party, who has accepted the draft of a pledgor given in settlement of a transaction which is an infraction of a statute, set up the illegality of that transaction to avoid his acceptance ?
The minor objections are of small weight.
(a) The requirement that the " usual business" of the bank
is to be transacted at its banking-house, means that the
bank shall not carry on banking in distant places. Under
the construction of the other side, how could two banks.ever
conclude any business between thlnmsehres? It would have
to be done at the banking-house of one, and so out of the
banking-house of the other. This business was done at the
banking-house of the Merchants' Bank.
(b) "Certified checks" are indirectly authorized by Congress, by being taxed. If they contravene the National
Banking Act they do so by leave of the legislature.
(e) Being specifically taxed they do not require a stamp
as Acceptances.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

637

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts. The plaintiff in
error was the plaintiff in the court below. It appears, by
the bill of exceptions, that upon the evidence in behalf of
the plaintiff being closed, the defendant's counsel moved
the court to instruct the jury that it was not sufficient to
warrant them to find a verdict for the plaintiff upon either
of the counts in tha declaration. This instruction was
given. The jury found for the defendant. The plaintiff
excepted, and has brought that instruction here for review.
This renders it necessary to examine the entire case as presented in the record. According to the settled practice in
the courts of the United States, it was proper to give the
instruction if it were clear the plaintiff could not recover.
It would have been idle to proceed further when such must
be the inevitable result. The practice is a wise one. It
saves time and costs; it gives the certainty of applied science
to the results of judicial investigation; it draws clearly the
line which separates the provinces of the judge and the
jury, and fixes where it belongs the responisibility which
should be assumed by the court. The ficts disclosed in the
bill of exceptionh'are neither numerous nor complicated.
The detendant called no witnesses. There is no conflict in
the testimony. The questions which it is our duty to examine are questions of law. None are made upon the pleadings, and it is unnecessary to consider them. It is sufficient
to remark, that the declaration is so framed as to meet the
case in every legal aspect which it can assume.
On the 26th of February, 1867, Fuller, the plaintiff's
cashier, received from the Second National Bank of -Boston
$200,000 of gold certificates, and paid the bank, uplon their
delivery, the amount of their face and a premium of 25 per
cent. Paymnt was made in currency and legal tender notes.
Tie next day lie received from the same bank $200,000 more
of like certificates, and paid for thein at the same rate in currency and a ticket of credit by the Merchants' Bank in ftvor
of the National Bank for $175,000. Both transactions were

638

MERCHANTS'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion of the court.

pursuant to an arrangement with Mellen, Ward & Co.,
brokers, in Boston. The market premium upon gold at
that time was 40 per cent. It was understood between
Fuller, the cashier, and Mellen, Ward & Co., that the latter
might receive the same amount of gold from the Merchants'
Bank, at any time thereafter, by paying the amount advanced, compensation for the trouble the bank had incurred,
and interest at the rate of six per cent. There had been like
transactions upon those terms between the parties prior to
that time. The president of'the bank was consulted in advance as to both the purchases from the Second National
Bank, and approved them. The following testimony is
taken from the record:
" George II. Davis testified as follows: I am the paying
teller of the Merchants' Bank. From about the 1st of Janunry, 1867, and previous to the 23d of February, the bank
several times received gold, or gold certificates from Mellen,
Ward & Co., for which it paid currency I the rate of $125
for $100 in gold. At that time they had deposited in the
bank about $90,000 in gold. No note, memorandum, or
check was taken connected with it in any way. The gold
was added to the gold of the bank; on my cash book it was,
added to the item of gold, and the gold was mixed with the
gold of the bank in the vault. If it consisted of certificates,
they were put in a pocket-book kept in my trunk with other
certificates and bills. (The payillg teller's book was put in,
and from the entries in it on the 26th, 27th, and 28th of
February, 1867, it appeared that the gold received from
Mellen, Ward & Co. was added to the gold of the bank.)"
On the 28th day of February, Carter, of the firm of Mullen,
Ward & Co., and Smith, the cashier of the State Bank, called
together at the Merchants' Bank. Carter said to Fuller,
" We have come in for gold."
Smith, the cashier, said,
"We have come to get an amount of gold," and that lie
would "pay for it by certifying these checks," referring to
two papers which Carter held in his hand. The teller handed
Fuller 84 gold certificates of $5000 each, making the sum
of $420,000. Fuller announced the amunt. Smith said

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

689

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion of the court.

that was the amount wanted, and the amount covered by
the checks. He received the certificates, certified the checks,
and handed them over to the plaintiff's cashier. They were
drawn by Mellen, Ward & Co. upon the State National Bank
in favor of Fuller, the plaintiff's cashier, or order, and were
certified "Good; C. II. Smith, cashier.',' One was for
$250,000, and the other for $275,000. Smith thereupon left
the bank with the certificates in his possession. Nothing
was said by Fuller to Carter, or by Carter to Fuller, in relation to the checks, atd Fuller did not know what checks
Smith referred to until they were delivered to him. Smith
did not certify or deliver the checks until he had got possession and control of the funds upon which his certificates
were apparently founded, and this was known to the plaintiff's agent when he received the checks. Later, on the
same day, Smith and Carter called again at the Merchants'
Bank. Fuller was absent. Smith received $60,000 more
of,gold and gold certificates from the teller, and gave in
return a check for $75,000, drawn by Mellen, Ward & Co.
on the State Bank, payable to "gold or bearer." Like the
two previous cheeks, it was certified " Good; C. H. Smith,
cashier." This arrangement was in pursuance of the same
agreement as that under which the gold certificates were
delivered in the earlier part of the day. Both transactions
were alike within its scope.
On the 1st of March, Havens, the president of the Merchants' Bank, called at the State Bank and complained that
Smith had not paid the checks. Smith said he was going
out to get the money. Havens inquired, "Didn't you have
the money-the gold? Were not gold certificates delivered
to you?" He answered, "Yes; I bad them here, but they
'Ire not here now. I an going out to get it, and will come
in and attend to it." Subsequently, in the same conversa.
tion, he said, " You hold the State Bank." Later in the
day Havens called upon Stetson, the president of the State
Bank. Stetson denied that Smith was authorized to certif~r
the checks, and appealed to a director who was present.
The director was silent. In an account which Fuller ren-

640

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion of the court.

dered to Mellen, Ward & Co. after their failure, showing
the disposition of various collaterals which Mellen, Ward
& Co. had deposited from tim3 to time with the Merchants'
Bank, the amount paid for gold was put down as a loan,
and interest was charged, but in his testimony before the
jury lie denied that the money was loaned, and insisted that
the gold was bought by the Merchants' Bank. The agreement between Mellen, Ward & Co. and the Merchants'
Bank rested wholly in parol. No written voucher was given
or received on either side touching any of the transactions
between the parties. The record discloses nothing else in
this connection which it is material to consider.
The State Batik was organized under the act of Congress
"to provide a national currency," &c., of the 3d of June,
1864.* The eighth section of that act authorizes such associations. by their directors, to appoint a cashier and other
oflicers, and to exercise, " under this act, all such incidental
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of
banking by discounting and negotiating promissory notes,
drafts, bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt; by
receiving deposits; by buying and selling exchajge, coin,
and bullion; by loaning money on personal security; by
obtaining, issuing, and circulating notes, according to the
provisions of this act," &c. It is further provided that the
directors may, by by-laws, regulate the manler in which
its business shall be conducted and its franchises enjoyed;
and that its general business shall be tranisacted at an office
"located in the place specified in its organization certificatc."
The 5th of the articles of association authorizes the board
of directors to appoint a cashier and such other officers as
may be lecessary, and to define their duties. The 7th
by-law declares that the cashier "shall be responsible for
the moneys, funds, and other valuables of the bank, and
shall give bond," &c. The 17th by-law requires that all
"contracts, checks, drafts, receipts, &c., shall be signed by
*13 Stat. at Large, 99.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

641

Opinion of the court.

the cashier or by the president, and that all indorsements
necessary to be made by the bank shall be under the hand
of the cashier or president," unless absent.
The by-laws contain nothing further upon this subject.

The directors failed to define more specifically the powers
and duties of the cashier.
Smith, the defendant's cashier, exercised habitually very
large powers without any special delegation of authority.
An account was kept on the books of the bank with him as
cashier, which represented these transactions, and printed
blank checks were kept in the bank to facilitate them. The
checks given by him for the proceeds of bills discounted
and for the purchase of exchange during the five moi'ths
preceding the 23d of February, 1867, amounted in the aggregate to two and a half millions of dollars. This was exclusive of his clearing-house checks. His checks for money
borrowed of other banks, during the six months preceding
the same 23d of February, amounted to one million five
hundred and forty-seven thousand dollars. A large number of the cashiers of other banks in Boston were examined,
and testified that they exercised the same powers under
like circumstances. There is no proof that either they or
Smith ever certified checks. It is not shown what became
of the gold. Perhaps some light is thrown on the subject
by the remark of the president of the Merchants' Bank to
the president of the State Bank, "that the latter had better
go to the sub-treasury, and that he would perhaps find his
gold there." We find no reason to doubt that both banks,
as represented by their cashiers, acted in entire good faith
throughout the transactions, until they were closed by the
delivery of the last of the certified checks. Neither could
then have anticipated the difficulties and the conflict which
subsequently arose.
The first question presented for our consideration is,
what was the title of the plaintiff, and what were the rights
of Mellon, Ward & Co., in respect to the gold certificates

delivered by the Second National Bank to the Merchants'
VOL. X.

41

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

.[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Bank? No very searching analysis of the facts disclosedis
necessary to enable us to find a satisfactory answer to this
inquiry. It does not appear that Mellen, Ward & Co. had
any connection with the certificates received from the
Second National Bank until after the plaintiff took the
action which they invoked, and came into possession of the
property.
The Merchants' Bank applied for them, bought them,
paid for them, received them, and deposited them with its
other assets of like character. It does not appear that any
special mark was put upon them, or that anything was done
to distinguish them from the other effects of the bank with
which they were mingled. Upon the face of the transaction
it was a simple sale by the Second National Batik, whereby
the entire title and property becamevested in the plaintiff.
But gold was then at a premiam of 40 per cent. in currency.
The Merchants' Bank paid but 25, according to the contract between the bank and Mellen, Ward & Co. The latter
were to pay, and it is to be presumed did pay, the additional
15 per cent. This was a part of the consideration upon
which the Merchants' Bank entered into the contract. It
is evident that the bank did not agree to deliver to Mellen,
Ward & Co. the identical gold certificates which were purchased, but gold, or its equivalent in certificates to the same
amount, and any gold, or anycertificates would have satisfied the contract. The bank cannot, therefore, be regarded
as holding the certificates in pledge. The want of the element, that the identical certificates were to be delivered, is
conclusive against that view of the subject. If Mellen,
Ward & Co. had tendered performance and called for gold,
and the bank had failed. to respond, Mellen, Ward & Co.
could have sustained an action for the breach of the contract. But they could not have maintained detinue, trover,
or replevin against the batik. The real character of the
transaction was, that the bank took the title and entire property, but Mellen, Ward & Co. had the right to purchase from
the bank the like amount of gold, or its equivalent in certificates, according to the terms of the contract, which were,

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

643

Opinion of the court.

that they should pay what the bank paid, compensation for
its trouble, and interest from the time the purchase by the
bank was made.
In respect to the $60,000 of gold and gold certificates delivered by the teller in the absence of the cashier, and the
excess of gold certificates over '400,000 delivered by the
cashier, the facts are substantially the same as those in regard to the $400,000, except that the excess of certificates,
and what was delivered by the teller, had reference to gold
and gold certificates deposited in the bank by Mellen, Ward
& Co. This difference is not material. With this qualification the same remarks apply which have 'been made touching the $400,000 of certificates, and we are led to the same
legal conclusions.
The transactions between the State Bank and the Merchants' Bank were apparently of the same character as that
between the Merchants' Bank and the Second National
Bank. What the understanding between Mellen, Ward &
Co. and the defendant was is not disclosed in the evidence.
But it is fairly to be inferred that it was the same as that
between them and the Merchants' Bank. When the arrangement was proposed by Carter to Fuller, on the 22d
of February, Carter said that "when the gold was taken
from the Merchants' Bank he thought it would go through
some other bank or banks." The assent of Mellen, Ward
& Co. to the sale to the State Bank by the Merchants' Batik
extinguished their claim upon the latter. The Merchants'
Bank certainly had a title of some kind, and whatever it
was it passed to the State Bank,- unless the contract was
void, because the State Bank had no corporate power, or its
cashier had no authority to make the purchase. The act of
Congress expressly authorizes the banks created under it to
buy and sell coin. No question of ultra vires is therefore
involved.
If the Merchants' Bank h <d the certificates as a pledge
it had a special property which might be sold and assigned.
The assignee in silch cases becomes invested with all the
legal rights which belonged to the assignor. Such is the

MERCHANTS'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the dourt.

rule of the common law, and it has subsisted from an early
period.*
But we are entirely satisfied with the other view we have
expressed upon the subject. Modus et conventio vineunt legem.
It is insisted by the defendant's counsel that the transaction was a loan to Mellen, Ward & Co. As the bank parted
with its title, if there were a loan in the eye of the law, it
would not in any wise affect the conclusions at which we
have arrived.
. Recurring to the subject of the authority of the cashier
of the State Bank to make the purchase, and excluding
from consideration for the present the certified checks,
three views, we think, may be properly taken of the case
in this aspect.
1. If the certificates and the gold actually went into the
State Bank, as was admitted by Smith to Havens, then the
bank was liable for money had and received, whatever may
have been the defect in the authority of the cashier to make
the purchase, and this question should have been submitted
to the jury.
2. It should have been left to the jury to determine
whether, from the evidence as to the powers exercised by
the cashier, with the knowledge and acquiescence of the
directors, and the usage of other banks in the same city, it
might not be fairly inferred that Smith had authority to
bind the defendant iy the contract which he made with the
Merchants' Bank.
3. Where a party deals with a corporation in good fiththe transaction is not ultra vires-and he is unaware of any
defect of authority, or other irregularity on the part of those
acting for the corporation, and there is nothing to excite
suspicion of such defect or irregularity, the corporation is
bound by the contract, although such defect or irregularity
in fhct exists.
If the contract can be valid undec any circumstances, an
*Mores

v. Conham, Owen, 123; Anon., 2d Salkeld, 522; Coggs v. Bern-

ard, 3d Id. 268; Whiaker ,,. Sumner, 20 Pickering, 899, 405; Thompson
V. Patrick, 4 Watts, 415; Story on Bailments, 824.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

645

Opinion of the court.

innocent party in such a case has a right to presume their
existence, and the corporation is estopped to deny them.
The jury should have been instructed to apply this rule
to the evidence before them.
The principle has become axiomatic in the law of corporations, and by no tribunal has it been applied with more
firmness and vigor than by this court.*
Corporations are liable for every wrong of which they are
guilty, and in such cases the doctrine of ullravires has no
application. t
Corporations are liable for the acts of their servants while
engaged in the business of their employment in the same
manner and to the same extent that individuals are liable
under like circumstances.1
Estoppel in pais presupposes an error or a fault and implies an act in itself invalid. The rule proceeds upon the
consideration that the author of the misfortune shall not
himself escape the consequences and cast the burden upon
another.ยง Smith was the cashier of the 'State Bank. As
such he approached the Merchants' Bank. The bank did
not approach him. Upon the faith of his acts and declarations it parted with its property. The misfortune occurred
through him, and as the case appears in the record, upon
* Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 Wallace, 784; Knox Co. v. Aspinwall, 21
Howard, 539; Bissell v. Jeffersonville,'24 Id. 288; Moran v. Commissioners,
2 Black, 722; Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 203; M6rcer Co. v. Hacket,
Id. 93; Mayor v. Lord, 9 Id. 414; Royal British Bank v. Turquand, 6 Ellis &
Blackburn, Q. B. & Ex. 327; The Farmers' Loan and Trust Co. v. Curtis,
3 Selden, 466; Stoney v. American Life Ins. Co., 11 Paige, 635; Society
for Savings v. New London, 29 Connecticut, 174; Commonwealth v. The
City of Pittsburg, 34 Pennsylvania State, 497; Commonwealth v. Allegheny
County, 87 Id. 287.
t Philadelphia and Raltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley, 21 Howard, 209;
Green v. London Omnibus Co., 7 C. B. N. S. 290; Life and Fire Ins. Co.
a. Mechanic Fire Ins. Co., 7 Wendell, 31.
I Ranger v. The Great Western Railway Co., 5 House of Lords Cases,
86; Thayer v. Boston, 19 Pickering, 511; Frankfort Bank v. Johnson, 24
382, 388.
Maine, 490; Angel and Ames on Corporations,
Swan v. The British North Australasian Company, 7 Hurlstone & Norman, 603; Hem v. Nichols, 1 Salkeld, 289.

646

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the plainest principles of.justice the loss should fall upon
the defendant. The ethics and the law of the case alike
require this result,*
Those who created the -trust, appointed the trustee and
clothed him with the powers that enabled him to mislead,
if there were any misleading, ought to suffer rather than
the other party.t
In the Bank of the United States v. Davis,j Nelson, Chief
Justice, said: "The plaintiffs appointed the director and
held him out to their customers and the public as entitled
to confidence. They placed him in a position where he has
been enabled to commit this fraud."
The director had fraudulently appropriated the proceeds
of a bill discounted for the drawer. It was held the drawer
was not liable.
The reasoning of Justice Selden in the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of Kent Co. v. The Butchers' and Drovers' Bankยง
is also strikingly apposite in the case before us. He said:
" The bank selects its teller and places him in a position of
great responsibility.

Persons having no voice in his selec-

tion are obliged to deal with the bank thlough him. If,
therefore, while acting in the business of the bank and
within the scope of his employment, so far as is known or can
be sen by the party dealing with him, he is guilty of misrepresentation, ought not the bank to be responsible ?"
The same principle was applied in the New York and New
Haven Railroad Co. v. Schuyler.j.
It was explicitly laid down by Lord Holt, in .ern v.
He there said: "For seeing somebody must be a
.Vichols.
loser by this deceit, it is more reason that he that employs and
puts trust and confidence in the deceiver should be a loser
than a stranger," "and upon this the plaintiff had a verdict."
Dezell v. Odell, 3 Hill i 216.
t Farmers' and Mechanics'. Bank of Kent Co. v. Butchers' and Drovers'
Bank, 16 New York, 133; Welland Canal Co. v. Hathaway, 8 Wendell, 480.
Supra.
1 2 Hill, 465.
38 Barbour Supreme Court, 586; S. C., affirmed, 34 New York, 80.
1 Salkeld, 289.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTs'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

647

Opinion of the court.

SmitIT, by his conduct, if not by his declarations, avowed
his authority to buy the certificates and gold in question
from the Merchants' Bank, and the bank, under the circumstances, had a right to believe him.
We have thus far examined the controversy as if the certified checks were void or had not been given. It remains
to consider that branch of the case. Bank checks are not
inland bills of" exchange, but have many of the properties
of such commercial paper; and many of the rules of the law
merchant are alike applicable to both. Each is f6r a specific
sum payable in money. In both cases there is a drawer, a
drawee, and a payee. Without acceptance, no action can
be maintained by,the holder upon either against the drawer.
The chief points of difference are that a check is always
drawn on a bank or banker. No days of grace are allowed.
The drawer is not discharged by the laches of the holder in
presentment for payment, unless he can show that he has
sustained some injury by the default. It is not due until
payment is demanded, and. the statute of limitations runs
only from that time. It is by its face the appropriation of
so much money of the drawer in.the hands of the drawee to
the payment of an admitted liability of the drawer. It is
not necessary that the drawer of a bill should have funds in
the hands of the drawee. A check in such case would be a
fraud.*
All the authorities, both English and American, hold that
a check may be accepted, though acceptance is not usual.t
By the law merchant of this country the certificate of the
bank that a check is good is equivalent to acceptance. It
implies that the check is drawn upon sufficient funds in the
hands of the drawee, that they have been set apart for its
* Grant on Banking, 89, 90; Keene v. Beard, 8 0. B. N . S. 873 ; Serle

v.'Norton, 2 Moody & Robinson, 404, n. ; Boehm v. Sterling, 7 Term, 430;
Alexander v. Burchfleld, 7 Manning & Granger, 1067.
.t Robson v. Bennett, 2 Taunton, 895; Grant on Banking, 89; Ch. on
Bills, 10 ed. 261 ; Boyd v. Emmerson, 2 Adolphus & Ellis, 184; Kilsby v.
89,
Williams, 5 Barnewall & Alderson, 816; Story on Promissory Notes,
490.

648

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

satisfaction, and that they shall be so applied whenever the
check is presented for payment. It is an undertaking that
the check is good then and shall continue good, and this
agreement is as binding on the bank as its notes of circulation, a certificate of deposit payable to the order of the depositor, or any other obligation it can assume. The object
of certifying a check, as regards both parties, is to enable
the holder to use it as money. The transferee takes it with
the same readiness and sense of security that he would take
the notes of the bank. It is available also to him for all the
purposes of money.

Thus it continues to perforn its im-

portant functions until in the course of- business it goes
back to the bank for redeniption and is extinguished by payment.
It cannot be doubted that the certifying bank intended
these consequences, and it is liable accordingly. To hold
otherwise would render these important securities only a
snare and delusion.
A bank incurs no greater risk in certifying a check than
in giving a certificate of deposit. In well-regulated banks
the practice is at once to charge the check to the account of
the drawer, to credit it in "a certified check account," and
when the check is paid to debit that account with the
amolint. Nothing can be simpler or safer than this process.
The practice of certifying checks has grown out of the
business needs of the country. They enable the holder to
keep or convey the amount specified with safety. They
enable persons not well acquainted to deal promptly with
each other, and they avoid the delay and risks of receiving,
counting, and passing from hand to hand large sums of
money.
It is computed by a competent authority that the average
daily amount of such checks in use in the city of New York,
throughout the year, is not less than one hundred millions
of dollars.
We could hardly inflict a severer blow upon the commerce
and bu iness of the country than by throwing a doubt upon
their validity.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK

V. STATE BANK.

649

Opinion of the court.

Our conclusions as to their legal effect are supported by
authorities of great weight.*
Congress has made them the subject of taxation by name.t
But it is strenuously denied that the cashier had authority
to certify the checks in question. To this there are two
answers:
1, In considering the question of his 'authority to buy the
gold, the evidence that he had given his checks for loans to
his, bank, and for the proceeds of discounts, was fully considered. Our reasoning and the authorities cited upon that
subject apply here with equal force. We need not go over
the same ground again. The questions whether the requisite authority was not inferable, and whether the principle of
estoppel in. pai- did not apply, should in this connection also
have been left to the jury.
2. As before remarked, the organic law expressly allowed
the bank to buy coin and. bullion. 'We have also adverted
to the provisions of the by-laws, that the cashier shall be
responsible "for the moneys, funds, and all other valuables
of the bank;" and that ",all contracts, checks, drafts, receipts, &c., shall. be signed either by the cashier or president." The power of the bank to certify checks has also
been sufficiently examined. The question we are now considering is the authority of the cashier. It is his duty to
receive all the funds which come into the bank, and to enter
them upon its books. The authority to receive implies and
carries with it authority to give certificates of deposit and
other proper vouchers. Where the money is in the bank
he has the same authority to certify a check to be good,
charge the amount to the drawer, appropriate it to the
payment of the check, and make the proper entry on the
* Bickford v. First National Bank, 42 Illinois, 238; Willets v. Phcenix
Bank, 2 Duer, 121 ; Barnet v. Smith, 10 Foster, New Hamsphire, 256; MGeads
v. Merchants' Bank, 25 New York, 146; 'Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank
v. Butchers' and Drovers' Bank, 4 Duer, 219; affirmed, 14 New York, 624;
Brown v. Leckie et al., 43 Illinois, 497; Girard Bank v. Bank of Penn Township, 39 Pennsylvania State, 92.
" 13 Stat. at Large, 278.

650

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

books of the bank. This he is authorized to do virtute ojjlcii.
The power is inherent in the office.*
The cashier is the executive-officer, through whom the
whole financial operations of the bank are conducted. He
receives and pays out its moneys, collects and pays its debts,
and receives and transfers its commercial securities. Tellers
and other subordinate officers may be appointed, but they
are under his direction, and are, as it were, the arms by
which designated portions of his various functions are discharged. A teller may be clothed with the power to certify
checks, but this in itself would not affect the right of the
cashier to do the same thing. The directors may limit his
authority as they deem proper, but this would not affect those
to whom the limitation was unknown.t
The foundation upon which this liability rests was considered in an earlier part of this opinion. Those dealing
with a bank in good faith have a right to presume integrity
on the part of its officers, when acting within the apparent
sphere of their duties, and the bank is bound accordingly.
In Barnes v. The Ontario Bank,t the cashier had issued a
false certificate of deposit. In the Farmers' and Mechanics'

Bank v. The Butchers' and Drovers' Bank,ยง and in lead v.
The Merchants' Bank of Albany,1I the teller had fraudulently
certified a check to be good.

In each case the bank was

held liable to an innocent holder.
It is objected that the checks were not certified by the
Wild v. The Bank of Passamaquoddy, 3 Mason, 506; Burnham v. Web-,
ster, 19 iMaine, 234; Elliot v. Abbot, 12 New Hampshire, 556; Bank of
Vergennes v. Warren, 7 Hill, 91; Lloyd v. The 'West Branch Bank, 15
Pennsylvania State, 172; Badger v. The Bank of Cumberland, 26 Maine,
428; Bank of Kentucky v.The Schuylkill Bank, 1 Parsons' Select Cases,
182; Fleckner v. Bank of the United States, 8 Wheaton, 860.
t Commercial Bank of Lake Erie v.Norton et al., 1 Hill, 601; Bank of
Vergennes v. Warren, 7 Id. 94; Beers v. The PhcBnix Glass Company, 14
Barbour, 858; Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank v. Butchers' and Drovers'
Bank, 14 New York, 624; n orth River Bank v. Aymar, 3 Hill, 262, 268;
Barnes v.Ontario Bank, 19 New York, 156, 166.
$ 19 New York, 156.
14 New York, 624; S.'C., 16 New York, 133.
25 New York, 146...

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

651

Opinion of the court.

cashier at his banking-house. The provision of the act of
Congress as to. the place of business of the banks created
under it must be construed reasonably. The business of
every bank, away from its office-frequently large and important-is unavoidably done at the proper place by the
cashier in person, or by correspondents or other agents. In
the case before us, the gold must necessarily have been
bought, if at all, at the buying or the selling bank, or at
some third locality. The power to pay was vital to the power
to buy, and inseparable from it. There is no force in this
objection.*
It is also objected that each of the checks, after being certified, required an additional stamp. The act of Congress
relating to the subject directs certified checks to be included
in the circulation of the bank for the purpose of taxation.t
This is a conclusive answer to the objection.
In Brown v. London,J judgment in a suit upon two accepted
bills of exchange was arrested after verdict because "1entire
damages" were given, and the count, upon one of the bills,
failed to aver that by the custom of merchants and others
trading in England the acceptor was obliged to pay. This,
was in 1671. Other decisions in this class of cases, not less
remarkable, are familiar to those versed in the learning of
the elder reports. The law merchant was not made. It grew.
Time and experience, if slower, are wiser law makers than
legislative bodies. Customs have sprung from the necessities and the convenience of business and prevailed in duration and extent until they acquired the fbrce of law. This
mass of our jurisprudence has thus grown, and will contin'ie
to grow, by successive accretions.
We have disposed of this case as it is before us.
How far it may be changed in its essential character, if at
all, by a full development of the evidence on both sides in.
the further trial, which will doubtless take place, it is not
for us to anticipate.
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 619: Pendleton v. Bank of Kentucky, 1 T. B. Munroe, 182.
t 13 Stat. at Large, 278, ch. 173,

110.

$ 1 Levinz, 298.

652

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

The judgment below is

REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO

AWARDED.

Mr. Justice MILLER was not present at the argument of
this case, and did not participate in its decision.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD (with whom concurred Mr. Justice DAVIS), dissenting.
Persons uniting to form an association for carrying on the
business of banking are required, as a condition precedent
to their right to do so, to make an organization certificate,
specifying, among other things, the name assumed by the
association, the place where its operations of discount and
deposit are to be conducted, designating the State, Territory,
or district, and also the particular county and city, town or
village, and shall transmit the same, duly acknowledged, to
the comptroller of the currency, to be recorded and carefully
preserved in his office; and the provision is that the usual
business of the association shall be transacted at an office
or banking-house located in the place specified in their
organization certificate.*
Such afti association, when duly organized, have a succession by the name designated in the organization tertificate
for the period of twenty years, and they may adopt a common seal, may make contracts, sue and be sued, complain
and defend in any court of law or equity as fully as natural
persons, and may elect or appoint directors, and may exercise all such incidental powers as may be necessary to carry
on the business of banking. They may also, by their board
of directors, appoint a president, vice-president, cashier, and
other officers, and define their, duties, .

.

. and they may,

by their directors, dismiss said officers, or any of, them, at
pleasure, and appoint others to fill their places. By the
terms of the act the directors shall consist of "not less than
five," and the express enactment is that the affiirs of the
association shall be managed by the directors.
Rflridence that that requirement is regarded as one of im*

13 Stat. at Large, 101.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

653

Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

portance, and that it is intended to be peremptory, is also
found in the provision prescribing the qualifications of directors as well as in the one defining their duties. None but
citizens of the United States are. eligible under any circumstances, and the further regulation is that three-fourths of the
number must have resided in the State, Territory, or district,
one year next preceding their election, and that they must be
residents of the same during their continuance in office.
Besides these guarantees of fidelity, the additional requirement is that each director shall own in his own right at least
ten shares of the capital stock, and when appointed or elected
shall make oath that he will, so far as the duty devolves on
him, diligently and honestly administer the affairs of the
association, and will not knowingly violate, or willingly permit to be violated, any of the provisions of the act under
which the association was formed.*
Organized under that act, as both of these banks were
when they assumed the name and character of national
associations, they are both subject to its provisions and
bound by its regulations.
Three checks were held by the plaintiffs, each dated Boston, February 28th, 1867, and signed Mellen, Ward & Co.,
with the words, Good-C. H. Smith, cashier, written across
the face of the checks. Separately described they read as
follows: (1) State National Batik pay to J. K. Fuller, cashier,
or order, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. (2) State
National Bank pay to J. K. Fuller, or order, two hundred
and seventy-five thousand dollars. (3) State National Bank
pay to Gold, or bearer, seventy-five thousand dollars.
Smith was the cashier of the defendant batk, and the
plaintiffs claimed that tixe defendants, inasmuch as Mellen,
Ward & Co. had failed, were liable to pay the whole amount,
as the words written across the face of the respective checks
were in the handwriting of their cashier; and the defen'dants
refusing to pay the same as requested, the plaintiffs commenced an action of assumpsit against them in the Circuit
Court, the declaration containing eleven counts.
* 13 Stat. at Large, 102.

MEERCIIANTS' BANK V. STATE BANk.

[Sup. Ct.

Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

Eight of the counts are founded upon the checks, of which
it will be sufficient to refer to the first, which alleges in substance that the signers of the checks made the same to enable
the defendant bank to obtain from the plaintiff bank certain
gold certificates held by the latter, of great value, and that
the plaintiff bank received the checks and delivered to the.
defendant bank the gold certificates, and that the defendants,
in consideration thereof, declared that the checks were good,
and promised to pay the same on presentment, as more fully
set forth in the record.
Two of the counts, to wit, the ninth and tenth, allege a
sale ard purchase of the gold certificates for the sum of six
hundred thousand dollars, and that the defendants have
refused to pay as they promised. Superadded to these is a
count for money had and received for the same amount,
which is in the usual form. Process was issued and served,
and the defendants appeared and pleaded the general issue,
and upon that issue the parties went to trial.
Pursuant to the usual course the plaintiffs introduced the
checks described in the declaration, and examined the officers of their bank in support of the cause of action therein
set forth. .They also read from the books of the defendant
bank, produced for their use by the order of the court passed
on their motion, the fifth of the articles of association of that
bank, and article seventeen of their by-laws. Besides the
officers of their own bank, they also examined the bookkeeper of the defendant bank in respect to the account of
their cashier as exhibited in the general ledger of the bank.
Twenty-two of the cashiers of the national banks doing
business in that city were also examined by the plaintiffs in
respect to the powers of a cashier as exemplified in the usage
there of -uch institutions, no one of whom testified that he,
as cashier of a national bank, ever certified as good the check
of a third person under any circumstan'ces.
Certain other exhibits were also introduced in the course
of the examination or cross-examination of the witnesses, as
for example the letter of the president to the comptroller of
the currency, and the exchange slip,so called, showing that

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

655

Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

the checks in suit were not sent to the clearing-house with
the other transactions of that day, and that they remained
in the hands of the paying teller until the president took
the same th next day to present them to the State Bank.
No testimony was introduced by the defendants; but the
court, when the plaintiffs rested, oil the prayer of the defendants, instrtcted the jury that the plaintiffs, on the whole
evidence, were not entitled to recover, and the jury, under
that instruction, returned a verdict for the defendants. Exceptions were taken by the plaintiffs to that ruling, and they
sued out a writ of error and removed the cause into this court.
Power to grant a peremptory non-suit is not vested in a
Circuit Court; but the defendant may if he sees fit, at the
close of the plaintiff's case, move the court to instruct the
jury that the evidence introduced by the plaintiff is not sufficient to warrant the jury in finding a verdiet ii his fvor,
and that their verdict should be for the defendant, as was
done in this case. Such a motion is not one addressed to
the discretion of the court, but it presents a question of law
"which it is the duty of the court to decide in view of the
whole evidence, and the decision of the court in granting or
refusing the motion, is as much the subject of exceptions as
any other ruling of the court in the course of the trial.
In considering the motion the court proceeds
upon the
ground that the facts stated by the witnesses examined by
the plaintiff are true, but that those facts as proved, with
every inference which the law allows to be drawn from
them, would riot warrant the jury in finding a verdict in his
favor. When viewed in that light the plaintiff's case, as
shown in the evidence, presents a question of law, and it is
well settled by the decisions of this court, that it is the duty
of the Circuit Court'to give the instruction whenever it ap.pears that the evidence is riot legally sufficient toserve as
the foundation of a .verdict.*
Founded as the ruling was upon the assuniption that the
cashier of the State Bank had no authority under the cirSchuchardt v, Aliens, 1 Wallace, 870; Parks v. Rogs, 11 Howard, 862;'
Bliven v. N. E. Screw Company, 23 Howard, 4383.

656

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup, Ct.

Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

cumstances to certify the checks in suit, it becomes necessary to examine that question. Whether he had such authority or not presents a mixed question of law and fact
dependent upon the evidence and the legal principles applicable to the case.
Testimony was introduced by the plaintiffs showing that
the president of the plaintiff bank exercised very comprehensive powers, including the loan of money, discounts, and
the general. superintendence of all the affairs of the bank,
he reporting and holding himself responsible to the directors
for the perfinrmance of his duties.
On Saturday, the twenty-third of February, 1867, the
cashier of the plaintiff bank .inforined the president, as the
latter testified, that Mellen, Ward & Co. were going to purchase in New York a large amount of gold, and that they
desired to know whether the bank would take it as it arrived, aid pay for it at the rate of $125 in currency for every
$100 of gold. Inquiries were made upon the subject- by
the president, and explanations were given to him by the
cashier, but the result was that the president told the cashier
that he might take the gold and pay for it on the same terms
that he had taken gold on several previous occasions from
the same parties.
Reference is there made to the conceded fact that those
parties had, at several times within two or three months
previous, brought gold into that bank and received currency
for it on the same terms as' those proposed to the cashier,
and the president testified that he told-the cashier that he
might, take the gold as it arrived on the same terms, and
that he, the cashier, might give the parties the right to come
into the bank at any time afterwards "and take th gold
from the bank, paying the bank for the gold $125 in currency for every $100 in gold, and such premium or compensation as would be equivalent to intereit," taking no obligation or note of any kind, but to rely entirely on the purchase
of the gold.
Two hundred thousand dollars of the gold arrived-on the
twenty-sixth of the same mouth, and the president states

Dec. 1870.] MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

657

Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

that he was informed by the cashier on that day that it was
in the Second National Bank, in gold certificates. Not being
familiar with such certificates he advised the cashier that he
had better go to the office of the assistant treasurer and
ascertain whether the certificates were correct before taking
them, as previously arranged. On the following day two
hundred thousand dollars more in similar certificates arrived, and similar directions were given by the president to
the cashier. Due inquiry was made at that office in both
cases, and all of the certificates, amounting to four hundred
thousand dollars, were received and transferred to the plaintiff bank.
Correspondence ensued between the comptroller of the
currency and the president of the bank, and the president,
in reply to the letter of the comptroller, stated that on the
twenty-sixth of the same month the cashier of the bank
made an advance to Mellen, Ward & Co. of two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars in legal tender notes and currency
upon two hundred thousand dollars in gold certificates, that
no note or security was taken for the amount of the advance
except a check signed by the parties for fifty thousand dollars, to be kept in the teller's cash in order to balance his
cash account; that on the following day a similar advance
upon gold (certificates) was nlhde by the eashier for the same
amount to the same parties and in the same manner in all
particulars, no note or obligation being taken for the amount
so advanced.
Prior to the first of these transactions the same parties, as
the president states in the communication, had deposited in
the bank the sum of ninety thousand dollars in gold, and
received therefor currency at the rate of $125 for $100 in
gold, the bank taking no note or obligation on account of
the transaction.
Fuller, the cashier, was also examined, and be testified
that the inquiry whether the bank would take the gold on
its arrival and pay for it was made of him by Carter, the
junior member of that firm, and that he, the witness, stated
to him to the effect that he could not answer the question,
VOL. x.

42

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

. Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

that he should have to consult the president in regitrd to it,
that he did consult the president of the bank, and that the
president told him that if it would not interfere with their
ability to- make their regular discounts he might take the
gold on the same terms as the bank had taken gold-of those
parties on previous occasions. Notice was accordingly given
to Mellen, Ward & Co. by the cashier, as he states, either on
that day or'on the Monday following, that the bank would
afford them theaccommodation.
Gold had been taken by the bank of that firm before, and
the cashier testified that "they asked if the bank would
take gold and pay for it at such time as either party might
wish-either the firm of Mellen, Ward & Co., or the Merchants' Bank-at $125 currency for $100 gold, they paying
the bank for the trouble, &'c., a sum equal to the interest on the
amount of the currency loaned, and the witness in response to

that question, after having consulted the president, said we
would do it."
Evidently both parties understood that the deposit of the
gold with the bank was only for a brief period, and in confirmation of that theory the cashier also testified that Carter
said to him, in their preliminary interview, that they, the
firm, wanted the bank "to take the gold and pay for it, and
that it would be taken away again in a few days, mentioning perhaps the last day of the month or the first day of the
following month." He also admits that when the first instalment was received he took a chlck from the parties for
fiftythousand dollars, but he says it was without.the knowledge of the president.
On the twenty-eighth of February, which was the last day
of the month, at half-past one o'clock, Carter and the cashier
of the defendant bank called at the plaintiff bank and went
together to the desk of the 6ashier, they being outside of the
counter. Carter said, "We have come for the gold." Smith,
the cashier of the defendant bank, said, "We have come in
to get an amount of gold," and that he would pay for it by
certifying the two checks which he held in his hand when
ie saw that the gold was al[ right.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

659

Case as stated in the dissenting opinion.

Responsive to that remark the cashier of the plaintiff bank
said, step to the paying teller, and he did so, passing on the
outside of the counter to that desk, the cashier of the plain.
tiff bank passing to the same desk on the inside of the counter, and that the latter said to the paying teller, the cashier
of the State Bank has come to take some gold, and the paying teller immediately handed to the cashier of the plaintiff
bank the package containing eighty-four gold certificates of
five thousand dollars each, saying, there are eighty-four in
the package, to which Smith, the cashier of the State Bank,
standing outside the counter, replied, that is the amount
wanted, that is the amount of these checks. They were
passed out to Smith and he certified the two checks and
handed them to the cashier of the plaintiff bank. Both
were certified in the bank by the cashier of the State Bank
subsequent to the delivery to him of the gold certificates
and not until he had examined the certificates; and the
president, in his letter to the comptroller of the currency,
states that the two checks, amounting to $525,000, were
certified as good "on the spot" by the cashier of the State
National Bank.
Davis, the paying teller of the plaintiff bank, was also examined by the plaintiffs, and he testified that the cashier on
that day came down to his desk, on the inside of the. counter, the cashier of the defendatit bank, accompanied by Girter,
being on the outside; that he, the paying teller, handed to
the cashier of his bank eighty-four gold certificates of five
thousand dollars each; that the cashier counted the sane
and passed them over the counter to the cashier of the State
Bank; that the cashier of the latter bank handed back two
checks drawn by Mellen, Ward & Co. on the State National
Batk, one for $250,000, the other for $275,000, ce'rtified
"Good-C. I. Smith, cashier." They were handed to the
cashier and by him to the paying teller, and by the latter to
the receiving teller to be added to his account for that day.
Later on the same day, and after the cashier had left the
bank, Ward, of the firm of Mellen, Ward & Co., called at
the bank and said to the paying teller, "We shall want

660

MERCHANTS' BANK V..STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

some more gold," and immediately, left the bank, and in a
few minutes the cashier of the State Bank and Carter of the
same firm came in, and the former handed to the paying
teller a check for seventy-five thousand dollars, signed by
Mellen, Ward & Co., with the words, "Good-C. I. Smith,
cashier," written across the face of the check, which is the
third check describcd in the declaration. Carter wrote the
check in the bank at the desk for customers, situated outside the counter, and it was certified at the same time by
the cashier of the State Bank before it was handed to the
paying teller.
The check, as the teller testified, called for $60,000 in
gold, and he states that he handed thirty thousand, to wit,
$10,000 in gold certificates and four bags of gold of five
thousand each, to Smith, passing it over the counter, and
that Carter took the gold and carried it away, but whether
or not he also took the gold certificates he cannot state*
Thirty thousand remained to be paid, and after Carter left,
he, the teller, took from the vault of the bank six bags of
gold, of five thousand each, and placed the same outside the
counter in charge of Smith, he being the only person present. Some third person, however, came in while the gold
was there, and the impression of the witness is that it was
Mellen, of the firm of Mellen, Ward & Co., and that he
assisted in carrying it away from the bank.
Evidently the first question upon the merits is whether
the State Bank received the gold or the gold certificates,
withdrawn from the Merchants' Bank, when the checks in
suit were given; for if they did, or if they authorized their
cashier to certify the same, they are clearly liable for the
whole amount claimed by the plaintiffs. Evidence to show
that they authorized their cashier to certify the checks is
entirely wanting, and it is quite obvious from the whole case
that neither the State Bank nor any of its officers, except
the cashier, had the slightest knowledge of the transaction
or of any of its incidents until the president of the plaintiff
bank, at a quarter past two in the afternoon of the following

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS! BANK V. STATE BANK.

661

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

day, presented the checks to the president of the State Bank
for payment.
When presented, the president of the State Bank took
them and read them, and immediately replied that they-had
not authorized their cashier to certify checks, to which the
president of the plaintiff bank rejoined in substance and
effect as follows: "He has certified checks, and those checks
were given to the Merchants' Bank for gold, the property
of that bank, delivered to him, and that he," the 'p'esident
of that bank, "wanted payment for that gold." He did not
pretend that they had conferred any actual authority upon
the cashier to certify the checks, but evidently based his
claim upon the ground of an implied legal liability, and
there is. not a scintilla of evidence ini the case tending to
show any express authority on the part of the cashier to certify the checks.
Suppose that is so, still it is suggested that there is some
evidence tending to show that the gold and gold certificates,
when they were withdrawn from the Merchants' Bank, were
transferred to, and actually deposited in, the defendant bank,
and the argument is that the Circuit Court erred in not submitting that question to the jury.
Before the president of the plaintiff bank visited the president of the State Bank he called on the cashier of that
bank, and whatever evidence there is in the case applicable
to the issue, which it is supposed should have been submitted to the jury, consists of the conversation which took
place between those officers during that interview before
the other officers of the defendant bank knew anything of
the transaction.
Just after one o'clock of that day the president of the
plaintiff bank called on the cashier of the State Bank with
the checks in his hands, and he states the conversation as
follows: "I said to him, I thought you were coming in to
pay the gold for those checks early in the morning. Question.-To pay the gold? Answer.-To pay the money. I
didn't say gold; to pay the money on those checks early in
the morning. The cashier replied, Yes, I am going out

662

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

now to attend to it and get the money. Get the money?
said I; didn't you have the money-the gold? Were not
the gold certificates delivered to you? Yes, said he, I had
them here, but they are not here now; I am going out to
get'it, and will come in and attend to it. I spoke rather
abruptly and said he should do it immediately. He looked
up and said, You hold the State Bank. I came back and
laid the checks on the desk of the teller."
Grave doubts were entertained by the circuit judges
whether the evidence, if it had been objected to, would have
been admissible, as it can hardly be, maintained that the
cashier, under the circumstances, was the agent of the bank
to make any such 'admission in respect to a past transaction;
and still graver doubts were entertained whether the supposed admission was understandingly made, as it was obvious that the cashier was abruptly and unexpectedly arraigned for his unauthorized and illegal acts in terms of
complaint and in tones of accusation and command, but the
judges were quite satisfied, even if the language as reported
was deliberately employed, that the statement was untrue;
that the admission, even if it was made, was contrary to the
fact; that every dollar of the gold and of the gold certificates went directly from the Merchants' Bank to the office
of the assistant treasurer for the benefit of the drawers of
the checks, as the circumstances abundantly prove.
Regarded in that light, it is settled law that the remark
of the cashier was entitled to no weight, as it was an admission contrary to the fact. Direct proof to that effect was
not introduced in this case, as the defendants did not introduce any testimony, but the circumstances shown in evidence were equally persuasive and convincing, leaving no
doubt in the mind of the Circuit Court that the whole fund
withdrawn from the Merchants' Bank was transferred directly to the office of the assistant treasurer to supply a corresponding deficiency in the deposits in that iistitution
which had been embezzled and loaned to the persons whose
firm name was signed to the checks.
Some of the circumstances referred to have already been

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

663

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

mentioned, and there are many others reported in the transcript which tend very strongly in the same direction.
Enough is exhibited in the record to show beyond all doubt
that Mellen, Ward & Co. were extensively engaged in speculations; that they were largely interested in copper stocks;
that in their first interview with the cashier of plaintiff bank
they disclosed to him the fact that they only wanted the
bank to take the gold for a few days, naming the day when
they would desire to withdraw the same, and the arrangement as completed with the cashier, and as sanctioned by
the president of the bank, gave them the right to call for
that amount of gold whenever they might see fit by paying
for the same at the same rate, and an additional sum equal
to interest from the time the-gold was deposited in the bank
to the time it should be withdrawn. Authority was given
to the cashier to take the gold as it arrived, on the terms
proposed, and he was told at the same time that the parties
depositilg it would be allowed to call 'for the same amount
on the same terms, paying also for the trouble a sum equal
to interest while it remained in the bank.
Weighed in the light of these explanations it must require
the exercise of much incredulity not to see in the acts, conduct, and declarations of the parties plenary proof that the
gold and gold certificates, for which the checks were given,
were withdrawn from the bank in pursuance of that arrangement. First Carter appears, then Ward, then Carter again,
and finally Mellen, the three being all the members of the
firm.
They had informed the cashier through their junior partner that the gold "would be taken away" on the last day
of the month or the first day of the following month, and
on the last day of the month Carter called and said "we
have come for the gold," and when Ward came at a later
hour on the same day, to give notice that their necessities
were not fully supplied, he made no inquiry, nor did he submit any proposition, but said, " we shall want some more
gold," and immediately left, showing, conclusively that the
contract had been previously made; and finally Mellen, the

664

MERCHANTS? BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford andlDavis, JJ., dissenting.

senior partner, called to assist in carrying-away the last
thirty thousand dollars, which, with the thirty thousand
previously taken, was delivered by the teller in the absence
both of the cashier and of the president.
Loaned and withdrawn as the gold and gold certificates
were but for one day, the president the ne~kt forenoon, when
he found that the same were not returned, nor the amount
of the checks paid, immediately took the matter into, his
own hands. He at once, or just before one o'clock, having
previously "heard that there was trouble at the sub-treasury,"
called upon the cashier of the State Bank, and failing to
obtain satisfaction there, he proceded, at a quarter before
two on the same afternoon, to the room occupied. by the
president and directors of that bank, and he states that he
found the president of the bank and two or three other
persons present. Much of what was said on the occasion
has already been narrated and need not be repeated.
Two of the persons present were the president of the State
Bank and his predecessor in that office, and the president of
the plaintiff bank testified that they were considerably excited; that he informed them that he had just heard that there
was t'rouble at the sub-treasury, that he thought they had better
go to that office, adding that if they did perhaps they would find
their gold there, offering at the same time to go with them if
they desired him to do so, and it.a]ppears that he and those two
persons went to the room of the assistant treasurer, and that
he introduced them to that officer, saying that they had come

to see if a large amount of gold had not been placed there to the
credit of the State Bank.

What further was said or done on the occasion does not
appear, as the plaintiffs' testimony stopped there in respect
to that interview, and none was introduced by the defendants. Sufficient, however, was given to satisfy the court
beyond doubt that every dollar of the gold and gold certificates was transferred to that institution for the benefit of the
drawers of the checks, and that no part of the same was
ever received by the defendant bank.
Courts of justice have sometimes said that it is necessary

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

.665

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.,

in all cases to leave the question to the jury if there is any
evidence, even a scintilla, in support of the issue, but it is
well settled law that the question for the judge is not whether there is literally no evidence, but whether there is nonie
that ought reasonably-to satisfy the jury that the fact sought
to be proved is est.blished.*
Judges are no longer required to submit a case to the jury
merely because some evidence has been introduced by the
party having the burden of proof, unless the evidence be of
such a character that it would warrant a jury in finding a
verdict in favor of that party.t
Formerly it used to be held, say the court in that case,
that if there was what is called a scintilla of evidence in
support of a case the judge was bound to leave it to the
jury, but that a course of recent decisions has established a
more reasonable rule, to wit, that in every case, before the
evidence is left to the jury, there is or may be a preliminary
question for the judge, not whether there is literally no evidence, but whether there is any upon which a jury can properly proceed to find a verdict for the party producing it,
upon whom the onus of proof is imposed.t
Apply that rule to the present case and it is clear to a demonstration that the ruling was correct, as there is no evidence reported which would warrant a jury in finding that
the, gold or gold certificates or any part of the same ever
went into the defendant. bank.ยง
Express authority in the cashier, either from the directors
orunder any act of Congress, to certify the checks of third
persons is not pretended, and it appearing that no part of
the funds withdrawn from the plaintiff bank was ever received by the defendant bank, or that they had any knowleq(ge of the transaction prior to the interview between the
presidents. of the respective banks, the plaintiffs are forced
*.Ryder v. Wombwell, Law Rep. 4, Exchequer, 39.
t Law Rep., 2 Privy Council Appeals, 835.
: Jewell v. Parr, 13 C. B., p. 916; Toomey v. L. & B. Railway Company,
8 Id. N. S. p. 150; Wheelton v. Hardisty, 8 Ellis & Blackburne, 262, 266.
Schuchardt v. Aliens, 1 Wallace, 869.

MERCHANTS' BANK V.. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

to invoke usage as the source of the cashier's authority to
certify the checks, or to put their case, as in the opinion of
the court,.upou the legal proposition that the power of the
cashier to perform those acts is inherent in the office; that
the certificates of the cashier import on their face that he
was authorized to exercise that power in behalf of the bank,
and that it makes no difference whether the acts were performed in the banking-house of the institution or elsewhere,
provided it appears that he added to his signature the word
cashier, at the time lie certified the instruments.
. Whether a usage exists or not, to confer power to do an
act which otherwise would not be authorized, is a question
of fact dependent upon the evidence, and he who alleges that
such a usage exists must prove it, unless it is general- and
of such long standing that it has become incorporated into,
and. may be regarded as, a part of the commercial law,
which cannot be pretended in this case, as it clearly appears
that no such usage exists in the State where the transaction
took place. No such evidence was introduced, and the
settled rule of law in the highest judicial tribunal of the
State is that the cashier of a bank possesses no such authority, unless it is specially delegated to him by the directors, which is in exact accordance with the rule prescribed
in the act of Congress giving to the directors the power to
appoint or elect a cashier and to manage the affiirs of the
institution.*
Such a power, sey the court in that case, that is, the power
of certifying checks, is in fact a power to pledge the credit
of the bank to its customers, and is a power which, by the
constitution of a bank, can alone be exercised by its president and directors, unless specially delegated by them, and
consequently it cannot be implied as a resulting duty or authority in any individual officer. Evidence of usage, therefore,.
cannot cpnfer any original, inherent, and implied power to
certify such instruments. Checks had been certified in that
case by the teller, but the rulb as laid down is equally appli*

13 Stat. at Larg6, 102.; Mussey v..Eagle Bank, 9 Metcalf, 813.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

667

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

cable to cashiers, as the court say that the authority is vested
in the president and directors, and that it cannot be implied
as a resulting duty in any individudl officer, which includes
the cashier as well as the teller.*
Established as that rule was in that State more than
twenty-five years-ago, by the unanimous decision of the
highest court of the State, it is not strange that no cashier
in the State could be found who would testify that there
was any such usage as is supposed by the plaintiffs. They
called twenty-two cashiers, including the cashier of their
own bank, but they did not venture to ask the question at
all whether there was any such usage, though one or more
of the number volunteered to say that none such existed,
which was equally well proved by the silence of all the
others. Proof of usage authorizing a cashier to certify
checks, even if such proof would confer such an authority,
which is denied, is certainly wanting, as there is not a scintilla of evidence to that effect to be found in the record.
Evidence of usage is admissible in mercantile contracts to
prove that the words in which the contract is expressed, in
the particular trade to which the contract refers, are used in
a particular sense, and different from the sense which they
ordinarily import, and it is also admissible in certain cases
for the purpose of annexing incidents to the contract in
matters upon which the contract is silent, but it is never admissible to make a contract or to add a new element to the
terms of a contract previously made by the parties. Such
evidence may be introduced to explain what is ambiguous
and doubtful, but it is never admissible to vary or contradict
what is plain. Where the language employed is technical
or ambiguous, such evidence is admitted for the purpose of
defining what is uncertain, but it is never properly admitted
to alter a general principle or rule of law, nor to inake the
legal rights or liabilities of the parties other or different
from what they are 13y the common law.t
9 Ib. 813.
]-Oelricks et al. v. Ford, 23 Howard, 63; Barnard v. Kellogg et al.,

spra, 883; Insurance Company v. Wright, 1 Id. 457; Simmons v. Law, 3

668

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

Whether such evidence is admissible or inadmissible to
prove such an authority, it is quite clear that there was none
in this case of any kind, and certainly none which would
have warranted the jury in finding that the cashier of the
defendant bank had any authority whatever to bind his bank
by his certificates that the checks were good.
Interrogatories, however, were put to the cashiers examined as witnesses touching their powers in respect to other
transactions, and they testified that the business at the clearing-house was usually conducted by the cashier of the bank,
and that in adjusting balances occurring there the cashiers
whose banks belonged to that association were accustomed
to draw checks for that purpose, and that they were in the
habit of receiving each other's checks in such adjustments
as the checks of their respective banks; and they also testified that they bought and sold New York funds, as their
banks redeemed very largely in that city, which created a
necessity for the daily use of such funds in con(ducting the
usual and regular operations of the banks; but the Circuit
Court was of the opinion that the evidence was entirely
unimportant in this case, as there was no evidence of any
usage showing that the cashiers were authorized to certify
the checks of third persons, and the judges were-confirmed
in that conclusion by the fact that it had long been the settled law of the State that no individual officer of a bank
possessed any such authority.
Giving full effect to the usage proved, it only shows that
a cashier may borrow money of the other banks, in the settlement of balances through the clearing-house, and that he
may sign the checks given for the same, and that he may
buy and sell New York funds, that is, he may buy for use
in redeeming their bills, and he may sell the same when
they have an excess beyond what is necessary for that purpose; but the evidence, in the opinion of that court, had no
Keyes, 219; Beirne v. Dord, 1 Selden, 97; Bliven v. iScrew Company, 23
Howard, 431; Dickinson v. Gay et al., 7 Allen, 37; Dodd v. Farlow, 11
Id. 428; Spartali v. Benecke, 10 C. B. 222; Trueman v. Loder, 11 Adolphus
& Ellis, 698; The Reeside, 2 Sumner, 567.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

669

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

tendency to prove that the cashier of a National bank might
certify the checks of a third person, as in this case, as the
settled law everywhere is, that a power evidenced by usage
must be considered as defined and limited by the usage.*
Nothing remains but to examine the question, whether
there is anY such inherent power in the office of a cashier as
is supposed by the plaintiffs, as it is clear that the act of
Congress confers no such power, and that there is no proof
of any such usage in the case eveii if it be admitted that
evidence of usage would be sufficient to establish that theory.
Special reference to the by-laws of the bank is unnecessary,
as it is not pretended: that the.- confer any such power upon
the cashier, and there is not a particle of evidence that the
directors, directly or indirectly, ever gave lim any such
power.
Before attempting to answer the inquiry, what are the
usual and ordinary duties of a cashier, it becomes necessary
to look somewhat more closely at the circumstances which
attended the transaction at the time the checks were certified. None of the checks were signed by the drawers or
certified by the cashier in the banking-house of the defendants. On the contrary, the cashier left his own bank and
went to the banking-house of the plaintifif, and there, in
the presence of the cashier of the plaintiffs, who knew full
well what the arrangement was between his bank and the
signers of the checks, and that by virtue of that arrangement they had a right to withdraw from the bank on that
day that amount of gold and gold certificates, and that he
as cashier was fully authorized by The president of his bank
to deliver it tothem, on the terms and conditions specified
in the arrangement.
He knew, also, that he himself, as cashier, had no authority
to certify checks; that the law of the State did not authorize
such an act; that he had never done such an act; that it had
never been done by the cashier of a National bank in that
city; that the act of certitinig these checks had not been
* The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wallace, p. 678.

670

MERCHANTS'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

done in the usual course of business, nor in the presence of the
directors of the defendant bank, as he testifies that the first
two checks, amounting to five hundred and twenty-five
thousand dollars, were certified "in the bank after the delivery and examination of the certificates;" and the pres-.
ident of the bank, in his letter to the comptroller of the currency, states that they were "certified as good on. the spot
by the cashier of the State National Bank."
Known to the cashier of the plaintiff bank as all the antecedent circumstances were, the judges of the Circuit Court
did not entertain a doubt that he knew full well that the gold
and gold certificates were withdrawn for the benefit of the
drawers of the checks, and that the cashier of the defendant
bank certified the checks as a mere surety or guarantor. Unmistakably he knew that the funds were withdrawn only for
a day, for he testified that he was informed when the arrangement was made that the same would be taken away
on the last day of the month or the first day of the'following month, and the president, in his interview with the
cashier of' the defendant bank the next day, just before one
o'clock, opened the conversation by saying, "I thought you
were coming in to pay the gold or the money on those
checks early in the morning." Both the president and
cashier of the plaintiff bank knew what that arrangement
was, and the cashier also knew all the circumstances which
attended the execution of the checks and the delivery of
the funds. Actual knowledge of all the circumstances on
the part of the cashier of the plaintiffs is fully proved, and
if he wanted more information he knew that the means of
knowledge were at hand, as the cashier of the State Bank
was there in his presence, and that if he was not satisfied
with his answers he could ascertain the whole truth from
the directors.
Suppose it be conceded, for the sake of the argument,
that the checks were negotiable instruments, standing upon
the same footing as bills of exchange and promissory notes,
still the plaintiffs cannot recover if the cashier had no power
to execute the certificates, as all the facts and circumstances

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS'

BANK V. STATE BANK.

671

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

were known to the cashier of their bank. Indorsees of such
negotiable instruments for value in the usual course of business are not obliged to make inquiries, as was held in Goodmqn v. Simonds;* but it was also hld in that case, and is
believed to be settled law everywhere, that an indorsee in
such a case must not wilfully shut his eyes to the means ofknowledge which he knows are at hand, for the reason that
such conduct is equivalent to notice, and is plenary evidence
of bad faith4t
Precisely the same rule was laid down by Baron Parke
in the case of May v. Chapman,t and the same rule has been
applied by thig court in the case of The Lulu,ยง decided at the
last term.
He knew that he hirtself had no authority to do such an
act as cashier; that the law' of the State forbade it; that no cashier of a National bank in that city had ever exercised
any such authority, and that the means of ascertaining
whether the cashier of the defendant bank had such authority were at hand, and the rule, under such circumstances, is
well settled that the party must inquire before assuming to
act or take the risk that the necessary authority exists.
Examined in the light of the. undisputed circumstances,
the case is as strong for the defendants as it would be if the
defect of authority had been apparent on the face of the instruments, as it in fact was to one having such knowledge.
Where the defect or infirmity appears on the face of the
instrument, the question whether the party who took it had
notice or not is a question of law, and must be determined
by the court as matter of construction.II
Unable to maintain the suit upon these grounds, the
plaintiffs are forced back to the grounds assumed by their
president in his first interview with the president of the
defendant bank, when he said, in effect, that your cashier
has certified those checks and I want payment for the gold,
20 Howard, 367.
$ 16 Mleeson & Welshy, 865.

t

Stagg v. Elliott, 12 C. B., N. S. 880.

0 Supra, 192.

II Goodman v. Simonds, 20 Howard, 866; Andrews v. Pond et al., 18
Peters, 65; Fowler v. Brantly, 14 Id. 318; Brown v. Davis, 3 Term, 80.

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

and to that it comes at last. Undoubtedly the cashier of the
defendant bank certified the checks, but the circumstances
show that the cashier of the plaintiff bank must have known
that he did so without the knowledge of the directors, and
if the cashier of the defendaut bank had no authority, and
the cashier of the plaintiff bank knew it, it is clear to a
demonstration that the defendant bank is not liable. Circumstfinces, altogether inconclusive, if separately considered,
may, by their number and joint operation, especially when
corroborated by moral coincidences, be sufficient to constitute the most convincing and conclusive proof.*
Repeated decisions of this court have determined the
question that the power to certify the checks of third persons
in behalf of the corporation is not inherent in the office of
the cashier of a bank, and also that the exercise of such a
power is not within the scope of his usual and ordinary
duties.
Cashiers of a bank are held! out to the public as having
authority to act according to the general usage, practice,
and course of business conducted by the bank, and their acts,
within tha scope of such usage, practice, and course of busi-

ness, will in general bind the bank in favor of third persons
possessing no other knowledge.t
So where a contract was made by the president and cashier
of a bank with the indorser of a promissory note due to the
bank, that he should be discharged in a certain event, this
court held that it was not a part of their duty to make such
a contract, and that they had -no power to bind the bank
except in the performance of their ordingry duties, which
was a much stronger case than the one before the court, as
the president of the bank joined with the cashier in making
the contract.1
His ordinary duties are quite extensive, but it is settled
law in this court that they do not comprehend the making
of a contract which-involves the payment of money, without
Castle et al. v. Bullard, 23 Howard, 187.
t Minor v. Mechanics' Bank, 1 Peters, 70.
$ United States Bank 'v. Dann, 6 Peters, 59.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

673

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

an express authority from the directors, unless it be such as
relates to the usual and customary transactions of the bank.*
Authority to certify the checks in this case, except what
is supposed to be implied, is not pretended, and if i4 were
the theory could not be supported for a moment, as there is
no such evidence reported and none such was introduced.
Recurring to the two principal checks it will be seen that
the plaintiff bank or their cashier, which is the same thing,
is the payee, and inasmuch as the same were certified in the
presence of the cashier of the plaintiffs, who know all the
circumstances, the suggestion that they are innocent holders
as against the defendants cannot be supported. If a bank
may be held liable in any case upon a certificate of their
cashier that a check is good when they have no fu'nds of the
drawer, it is not because the cashier is deemed authorized to
make such a certificate, but because the bank is bound by
his representation, notwithstanding it is false and unauthorized.t
Substantially the same concession is also made in the case
of North River Bank v. Aymar,.T and in F. &' M. Bank v.
B. & D. Bankยง Like concession is also made in the case
of Railroad Co. v. Schuyler.I1 Evidently the case of the
Mechanics' Bank v. Railroad, makes the same concession,
even if it does not fully sustain the English doctrine as exemplified in the leading case of Grani -'. Norway,** which, in
the judgmient of the Circuit Court, contains the true rule.tt
Much vacillation is exhibited in the decisions of the New
York courts upon this subject, but they agree at present that
the certificate of the cashier or teller, as the case may be, if
reguldr, in form, and unattended with any special circumstances, amounts tb a representation that the drawer of the
check has funds in the bank to meet the same, and that the
* United States v. Bank of Oolumbus, 21 Howard, 864.
t F. & M. Bank v. B. & D. Bank, 16 New York, 131.
3 Hill, 266.
14 Noew York, 681.
I 84 New York, 72.
3 Kernan, 615.
,** 10 C. B. 686.
ti Kirk v. Bell, 12 English Law & Equity, 889; Coleman v.,Riches, 29
Id. 829.

voL. x.

48

674

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

certificate unexplained binds the bank whether accurate or
erroneous, but that no such consequences will follow if there
is anything on the face of the instrument to show the contrary, or if the payee or holder knew that the authority of
the cashier to make the certificate depended upon the existence of funds in the bank to meet the liability, and that the
bank had none such at the time, and that the payee or party
presenting the check knew that fact.*
Carefully examined it will be found that in every one of
the cases decided by the courts of that State where the more
stringent. rule is applied the check was'presented at the
bank in the usual course of bitsiness, and that the act of the
cashier, in making the certificate did in fact amount to an
actual representation that the bank held the funds of the
drawer to meet the demand.
Some of those decisions are doubtless inconsistent with
the decisions of this court and with the English decisions
and those of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts inpon the
same subject; but there is not one of them, if the facts of
the case before the court are properly examined and understood, which will sustain the claim of the plaintiffs.
Beyond all question the cashier of the plaintiff bank represented his bank, he was an agent with full authority, and
what he knew in respect to the transaction in question must
be regarded as known to his bank. Viewed in the light of
the circumstances it is clear that he did not receive the certificates as a representation that funds to that amount were
in the State National Bank to meet the checks. He knew
that the fact was not so, as the drawers were the customers.
of his own bank, and the case does not show a single instance
in which they ever had any dealings with the defendant
bank. Instead of that he regarded the acts of the certifying
cashier as constituting the defendant bank a surety of the
drawers of the checks to his bank, and the conduct of the
president the next day in first arraigning the signer 'of the
certificates before he presented the checks to the president
Clarke National Bank v. Bank of Albion, 52 Barbour, 596; Irving Bank
.v.
Wetherald, 36 N ew York, 837; Mead v. Merchants' Bank, 25 Id. 145.

Dec. 1870.]

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

675

Opinion of Clifford and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

of the defendant bank strongly confirms that view of the
evidence.
Agents, held out as such by their principals for certain
defined purposes, well known to the public, cannot bind
their principals by any acts done outside of, the scope of
their authority, as defined by the well-known purposes of
their agency. Masters of vessels are authorized to sign bills
of lading, and the instruments when duly executed in the
usual course of business bind the owners of the vessel if the
goods were laden on board or were actually delivered into
the custody of the master, but it is well settled law that the
owners are not liable if the party to whom the bill of lading
was given had no goods or the goods described in the bill
of lading were never put on board nor delivered into .the
custody of the master.* Like principles are applied in all
cases where the authority of the agent is limited and the
limitations as defined by the purposes of the agency are well
known to the public.t
Persons dealing with an agent, knowing that he acts only
by virtue of a delegated power, must, at their peril, see in
each case that the paper on which they rely "comes within
the power under which the agent acts."T
Where the plaintiff in the suit is the payee of the instrument, the correctness of that rule cannot be questioned, and
this court decided in that case that the same rule applies to
every subsequent taker of the paper, adding, what is certainly
correct, where the suit, as in this case, is in the name of the
payee, "that the protection which commercial usage throws
around negotiable paper cannot be used to establish the
authority by which it was originally iss-ted."
Cashiers are forbidden by the express decision of this
court from making contracts on behalf of their banks not
within the scope of their usual and ordinary powers, involv*

The Schooner Freeman, 18 Howard, 187.

Mussey v. Beecher, 8 Cushing, 511; Lowell Bank v. Winchester, 8
Allen, 109; Benoit v. Conway, 10 Id. 628; Grant v. Norway, 10 C. B. 666;
Stagg v. Elliott, 12 Id. (N. S.), 878; Hubersty v. Ward, 8 Exchequer, 880;
Alexander . Mackenzie, 6 C. B. 766.
$ The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wallace, 676.

โขMARSH

v. FULTON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ing the payment of-money, without an express delegation of
authority from the directors.*
Checks signed at the clearing-house and contracts for the
purchase and sale of New York funds are authorized by the
directors, and are sanctioned by usage, but cashiers have no
such authority to certify checks for third persons, which was
well known to the cashier of the plaintiff bank.
Associations organized under the ae of Congress to carry
on the business of banking are required by the express words
of the act to transact their usual business at an office or banking-house, located in the place specified in their organization
certificate,' and no individual officer ought to be allowed to
leave his bank and go elsewhere to make large contracts
without the instruction of the directors. Unless his power
in that behalf is limited to the established place of business
he may go wheiever he pleases for that purpose, and if he
certifies checks anywhere within the four seas of our continent, the bank is bound by his contracts. Stockholders and
depositors should take warning if such is the law, as the
National banks are liable at any moment to be overwhelmed
with pecuniary obligations, and involved in utter ruin.

MARSH V. FULTON COUNTY.
1. In February, 1853, the Mississippi and Wabash Railroad Company was
incorporated by the legislature of Illinois, and authorized to construct
a railroad from Warsaw, on the Mississippi Rivet', to the east line ofr
the State. In February, 1857, an act was passed by that legislature
amending the charter of the company, by which the line of the railroad
was divided into ihree divisions, designated as the Wesiern, the Central,
and the Eastern, and each division was created a new company; so that
there were three distinct corporations in place of the original corporation ;-Held, that a subscription of stock and issue of county bonds,
authorized upon a vote of the people of the county to the original corporation, couldnot be legally made to one of the three new corporations.
2. Where county bonds to a railroad company are issued without any
authority, they are invalid in the hands of an innocent purchaser.
United States v. Bank of Columbus, 21 Howard, 364.

