Dec. 1870.]

e ARNARD V.

K]ELLOGG.

Syllabus.

may waive a constitutional provision which applies in his
favor.* Fraud or mistake in the execution of a deed may
be shown at law.t The most solemn contracts under seal,
where the statute of frauds is not involved, may be changed
or abrogated by a new parol agreement, express or implied;
and a contract within the statute may be taken out of it by
the conduct of the parties.1 If Stone's administrator were
to sue Trimble, and the facts should be established as Trimble alleges them to be, the action would be barred by estoppel
in pais. We think the instruction was correct, and that it
properly submitted this part of the, case to the jury.
The plaintiffs in error submitted eight prayers for instructions. The 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 8th, were refused.
The refusal was excepted to. Some of the points which
they present were not insisted upon in the argument at the
bar. The others are sufficiently answered by what has
already been said.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY dissented, on the ground that
there was not enough language in the assignment of Howe
to Trimble to show that a transfer of the extension was intended.

BARNARD V.

KELLOQGG.

A wool broker in Boston sent to a dealer in wool tt Hartford samples of foreign wool in bales which he had for sale, on commission, with the prices,
and the latter offered to purchase the different lots at the prices, if equal
to the samples furnished. The wool, broker accepted the offer, provided
the wool dealer in Hartford would come to Boston and examine the

wool on a day named, and then report if be would take it.

The wool

- dealer went to Boston, and after examining certain of the bales as fully
as he desired, and being offered an opportunity to examine all the

remainb;g bales and to have them opened for his inspection (which
*

Baker v. Braman, 6 Hill, 48.

J hartshorn, Executor, v. Day, 19 Howard. 223.
: Emerson v. Slater, 22 Howard, 41.

BARNARD V. ]KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
offer he declined) purchased. The wool proved, the vendor knowing
nothing of it, to have been deceitfully packed, rotten and damaged wool
and tags being concealed by an outer covering of fleeces in their ordinary state. On action brought to recover damages, held1. That the sale was not one by sample: and there having been no express
warranty that the bales not examined should correspond with those
which were, nor any circumstances from which the law could imply
such a warranty, that the rule of c'aveal emptor applied.
2. That proof could not be received to control the said rule, that by the
custom of merchants and dealers in wool in bales at Boston and New
York, the two principal markets of the country for foreign wool, there
is an implied warranty of the seller to the purchaser that the same is
not falsely or deceitfully packed; especially where the parties did not
know of the custom.
3. The office of a custom or usage in trade is to ascertain and explain the
meaning and intention of the parties to a contract, whether written or
in parol, which could not be done without the aid of this extrinsic evidence. It does not go beyond this, and is used as a mode of interpretation on the theory that the parties knew of its existence and contracted
with reference to it.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut, the case being this:

In the summer of 1864, Barnard, a commission merchant
residing in Boston, Massachusetts, placed a lot of foreign
wool, received from a shipper in Buenos Ayres, and on
which he had made advances, in the hands of Bond & Co.,
wool brokers in Boston, to sell, with instructions not to sell
unless the purchaser came to Boston and examined the wool
for himself. These brokers sent to E. N. Kellogg & Co.,
merchants and dealers in wool, in Hartford, Connecticut, at
their request, samples of the different lots of wool, and communicated the prices at which each lot could be obtained.
Kellogg & Co., in reply, offered to take' the wool, all round,
at fifty cents a pound, if equal to the samples fturnished, and
Bond.&Co., for their principal, on Saturday, the 6th day of
August, by letter and telegram, accepted this offer, provided
Kellogg & Co. examined the wool on the succeeding Monday and reported on that day whether or not they would
take it. Kellogg & Co. acceded to this condition, and the
senior member of the firm repaired to Boston on the day

Dec. 1870.]

BARNARD

V. KELLOGG.

S8

Statement of the case.

named and examined four bales in the broker's office as
fully as he desired, and was offered an opportunity to examine all the bales, and have them opened for his inspection.
This he declined to do, and concluded the purchase on the
joint account of all the plaintifl.
Some months, after this,
on opening the bales it was ascertained that a portion of
them were falsely and deceitfully packed, by placing in the
interior rotten and damaged wool and tags, which were
concealed by an outer covering of fleeces in their ordinary
state. This condition of things had been unknown to Barnard, who bad acted in good faith. It was, however, communicated to him, and he was asked to indemniftythe purchaser against the loss he sustained in consequence of it.
This he declined to do, and the purchaser brought this suit.
The declaration counted:
1st. Upon a sale by sample.
2d. Upon a promise, express or implied, that the bales
should not be falsely packed.
3d. Upon a promise, express or implied, that the wool
inside of the bales should not differ from the samples by
reason of false packing.
The court below, trying the cause without the intervention of a jury, held that there was no express warranty that
the bales not examined should correspond to those exhibited
at the brokers' store, and that the law under the circumstances could not imply any. But the court fond as matters
of fact, that the examination of the interior of the bulk of
bales of wool generally, put up like these, is not customary
in the trade; and though possible, would be very inconvenient, attended with great labor and delay, and for these
reasons was impracticable; and that by the custom of me'chants and dealers in foreign woopl in bales in Boston and
New York, the principal markets of this country where such
wool is sold, there is an implied warranty of the seller to
the purchaser that the same is not falsely or deceitfully
packed, and the court held as a matter of law, that the custom was valid and binding on the parties to this contract,
and gave judgment for the purchaser.
VOL. X.

25

BARNARD V. KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the custom,

This writ of error was taken to test the correctness of this
ruling.
Mr. N. Shiprnan, in support of it:
1. While it is true, to a limited extent, that courts will
not recognize customs directly contrary to a well-settled
rule of law, yet courts are continually, and of necessity, upholding customs not in conformity with the'common law.
Indeed, as Lord Kenyon says, it is of the very essence of a
custom that it should vary from the common law.*
Neither can there be a precise and definite rule established as to the admission of customs. Each custom must
.stand or fall by itself. If the custom and the common law
can both exist, and the custom does not entirely abrogate
the law, and is proved by strong testimony, then the custom
stands and the common law yields.
Indeed, within its proper sphere, that is to say not destroying the common law, but modifying it in accordance
with the suggestions of practical experience, courts regard
usage as entitled to the highest consideration. -Baldwin, J.,
in Wilcocka v. Phillips,t says:

"Its influence is universal. It attaches to nations and individuals. It creates obligations. It interprets laws. General
custom is a general law, and forms the law of contracts, and
this sometimes, though it be at variance with their terms. It
controls even the principles of law. Thus the right to the wayging crops, days of grace, and time of protest, are regulated by
the usage of the place or bank, and affect (;ven those who have
no notice of the custom. The ancient, established, uniform, and
known custom of persons engaged in any trade, makes a law
f-r that trade, though it is not ap'plicable to other trades. It is
their way of doing business. It is the rule to which all who
enter that trade, are understood to consent. It makes, supplies,
and regulates their contracts. Known (nd settled usage ought
to be respected by courts and juries, nless sudh usages are
against the law or policy of the country, otherwise our deal.
* Horton v. Beckman, 6 Term, 764.

t- I Wallace, Jr., 63.

Dec. 1870.]

BARNARD V. KELLOGG.

Argument in support of the custom.

ings with foreigners in foreign lands will fall into disorder and
confusion."

2. The custom of warranty against false packing of wool
in bales, is not contrary to the rule of caveat emptor, but is
based upon, and is a part of a well-known and established
exception to the rule; for when there is no opportunity to
inspect the commodity, the maxim caveat emptor does not
apply.* Now the interior of wool in bales is in fact as much
concealed from the buyer as if the bale was in the hold of a
vessel on the ocean. The court below finds that the inspection of the interior of the bale is "impracticable." As matter of fact it is known that foreign wool or cotton comes into
market packed in bales of about one thousand pounds each,
secured by iron hoops, and having been subjected to very
great pressure. From the nature of the commodity, the
difficulty and expense of opening the bales, the lack of machinery with which to repack them, the delay and labor incident to an attempt to examine the interior of the bulk, a
personal inspection of the contents of each bale and of each
fleece is impossible. Fraudulent packing is thus rendered
easy and difficult of detection. Pecuniary redress for the
fraud i impracticable unless there is a general rule of warranty extending from the consumer to the original packer
or grower. For it would be well-nigh impossible for each
successive person through whose hands the goods passed,
from .the parties in South America to the manufacturer in
the United States, to take a special warranty against false
packing. A general and universal rule prevents fraud, and
renders the rights and liabilities of all parties certain and easy
of enforcement. Courts have therefore been constrained to
decide that on every sale of cotton or, wool in bales, there
is an implied warranty, that substances foreign to the article
sold were not concealed in the interior of the package.t
* Gardiner v. Gray, 4 Campbell, 144; Hyatt v. Boyle, 6 Gill & Johnson,

110.
t Oneida Manufacturing Co. v. Lawrence, 4 Cowen, 444; Beebee v. Robert,
12 Wendell, 413; Boorman v. Johnson, lb. 566; Gallagher v. Waring, 9
Wendell, 20; Manufacturing Co. v. Dixon, 3 Cushing, 407.

BARNARD V. KELLOGG.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

8. The customs, contravening the rule of caveat emptor,
which have been disregarded by the courts, are of a different
nature from the one now under consideration. The former
were customs whereby the seller impliedly warranted his
wares to be " merchantable," and were thus directly at variance with the common law. This custom is not a warranty in regard to character or quality, but is in effect a
warranty against fraud; that "material foreign to, and not
properly belonging to or with" the article sold has not been
secretly placed within the bale.
Mr. Charles -E. Perkins, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
No principle of the common law has been better established, or more often affirmed, both in this country and in
England, than that in sales of personal property, in the absence of express warranty, where the buyer has an opportunity to inspect the commodity, and the seller is guilty of no
fraud, and is neither the manufacturer nor grower of the
article he sells, the maxim of caveat en rtor applies. Such a
rule, requiring the purchaser to take care of his own interests, has been found best adapted to the wants of trade in
the business transactions of life. And there is no hardship
in it, because if the purchaser distrusts his judgment he can
require of the seller a warranty that the quality or condition of the goods he desires to buy corresponds with the
sample exhibited. If he is satisfied without a warranty, and
can inspect and declines to do it, he takes upon himself the
risk that the article is merchantable. And he cannot relieve
himself and charge the seller on the ground that the examination will occupy time, and is attended with labor and
inconvenience. If it is practicable, no matter how inconvenient, the rule applies. One of the main reasons why the
rule does not apply in the case of a sale by sample, is because
there is no opportunity for a personal examination of the
bulk of the commodity which the sample is shown to represent. Of such universal acceptance is the doctrine of caveat

Dec. 1870.]

BARNARD

V. KELLOGG.

Opinion of the court.

empIor in this country, that the courts of all the States in the
Union where the common law prevails, with one exception
(South Carolina), sanction it.
Applying this acknowledged rule of law to this case, it is
easy to settle the rights of the parties, and to interpret the
contract which they made. That the wool was not sold by
sample clearly appears. And it is equally clear that both
sides understood that the buyer, if he bonght, was to be his
own judge of the quality of the article he purchased. Barnard expressly stipulated, as a condition of sale, that Kellogg
should examine the wool, and he did examine it for himself.
If Kellogg intended to rely on the samples as a basis of purchase, why did he go to Boston and inspect the bales at all,
after notice that such inspection was necessary before the
sale could be completed? His conduct is wholly inconsistant
with the theory of a sale by sample. If he wanted to secure
himself against possible loss, lie should either have required
a warranty or taken the trouble of inspecting fully all the
bales. Not doing this, he cannot turn round and charge the
seller with the consequences of his own negligence' Barnard acted in good faith, and did not know or have reason
to believe that the wool was falsely packed. The sale on his
part was intended to be upon the usual examination of the
article, and the proceeding by Kellogg shows that he so
understood it, and it is hard to see what ground of complaint even lie has against Barnard. 'It will not do to say
that it was inconvenient to examine all the bales, because if
inconvenient it was still practicable, and that is all, as we
have seen, that the law requires. The case of Salisbury v.
Stainer, reported in 19th Wendell,* is similar in its facts to
this case, and the court applied to it the rule of caveat emptor.
There bales of hemp were sold which turned out to be fidsely
packed. The purchaser wished to treat the sale as a sale by
sample; but the court said to him, "You were told to examine for yourself, and having opened one bale, and at
liberty to open all, and omitting to do it, you cannot be per* Page 158.

BARNARD V. ]KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

mitted to allege that the sale was a sale by sample, nor to
recover damages as on an implied warranty." It is, therefore, clear by the general principles of law, adopted in the
interests of trade and commerce, that the seller in this instance was not answerable over for any latent defects in the
bales of wool.
But the learned court below having found that by the custom of dealers in wool in New York and Boston there is a
warranty by the seller implied from the fact of sale, that the
wool is not falsely packed, and having held Barnard bound
by it, the inquiry arises whether such a custom can be admitted to control the general rules of law in relation to the
sale of personal property.
It is to be regretted that the decisions of the courts, defining what local usages may or may not do, have not been
uniform. In some judicial tribunals there has been a disposition to narrow the limits of this species of evidence, in
others to extend them, and on this account mainly the conflict in decision arises. But if it is hard to reconcile all the
cases, it may be safely said they do not differ so much in
principle, as in the application of the rules of law. The
proper office of a custom or usage in trade is to ascertain
and explain the meaning and intention of the parties to a
contract, whether written or in parol, which could not be
done without the aid of this extrinsic evidence. It does not
go beyond this, and is used as a mode of interpretation on
the theory that the parties knew of its existence, and contracted with reference to it. It is often employed to explain
words or phrases in a contract of doubtful signification, or
which may be understood in different senses, according to
the subject-matter to which they are applied. But if it be
inconsistent with the contract, or expressly or by necessary
implication contradicts it, it cannot be received in evidence
to affect it.* Usage, says Lord Lyndhurst, "may be admissible to explain what is doubtful; it is never admissible
* See Notes to Wigglesworth v. Dallison, 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 498;
2 Parsons on Contracts, 9, 535; Taylor on Evidence, 943, and following.

Dec. 1870.]

BARNARD V. KELLOGG.
Opinion of the court.

to contradict what is plain."* And it is well settled that
usage cannot be allowed to subvert the settled rules of law.t
Whatever tends to unsettle the law, and make it different in
the different communities into which the state is divided,
leads to mischievous consequences, embarrasses trade, and
is against public policy. If, therefore, on a given state of
facts, the rights and liabilities of the parties to a contract are
fixed by the general principles of the common law, they cannot be changed by any local custom of the place where the
contract was made. In this case the common law (lid not,
on the admitted facts, imply a warranty of the good quality
of the wool, and no custom inthe sale of this article can be
admitted to imply one. A contrary doctrine, says the court,
in Thompson v. Ashlon,t "would be extremely pernicious in
its consequences, and render vague and uncertain all the
rules of law on the sales of chattels."
In Massachusetts, where this contract was made, the more
recent decisions on the subject are against the validity-of he
custom set up in this case. In Dickinson v. Gay,ยง which
was a sale of cases of satinets made by samples, there were
in both the samples and the goods a latent defect not discoverable by inspection, nor until the goods were printed,
so that they were unmerchantable. It was contended that
by custom there was in such a ease a warranty implied from
the sale that the goods were merchantable. But the court,
after a full review of all the authorities, decided that the
custom that a warranty was implied, when by law it was not
implied, was contrary to the rule of the common law on the
subject, and therefore void. If anything, the case of Dodd
v. I'arlow,II is more conclusive on the point. Therc forty
bales of goat skins were sold by a broker, who put into the
memorandum of sale, without authority, the words " to be
of merchantable quality and in good order."
It was contended that by custom, in all sales of such skins,
there was an implied warranty that they were of merchant* Blackett v. Royal Exchange Assu. Co., 2 Crompton & Jervis, 249.
- See Note to 1st Smith's Leading Cases, supra.
II 11 Allen, 426.
7 Allen, 29.
. 14 Johnson, 317.

BARNARD V. KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

able quality, and, therefore, the broker was authorized to insert the words, but the court held the custom itself invalid.
They say, "It contravenes the principle, which has been
sanctioned and adopted by this court, upon full and deliberate consideration, that no usage will be held legal or binding on parties, which not only relates to and regulates a
particular course or mode of dealing, but which also engrafts
on a contract of sale a stipulation or obligation which is inconsistent with the rule of the common law on the subject."
It is clear, therefore, that in Massachusetts, where the wool
Was sold and the seller lived, the usage in question would
not have been sanctioned.
In New York there are some cases which would seem
to have adopted a contrary view, but the earlier and later
cases agree with the Massachusetts decisions. The question
in Prith v. Barker* was, whether a custom was valid that
freight must be paid on goods lost by peril of the sea, and
Chief Justice Kent, in deciding that the custom was invalid,
says: "Though usage is often resorted to for explanation
of commercial instruments, it never is, or ought to be, received to contradict a settled rule of commercial law." In
Woodruff v. Merchants' Bank,t a usage in the city of New
York, that days of grace were not allowed on a certain description of commercial paper, was held to be illegal. Nelson, 'chief justice, on giving the opinion of that court, says:
"The effect of the proof of usage in this case, if sanctioned,
would be to overturn the whole law on the subject of bills
of exchange in the city of New York;" and adds, "if the
usage prevails there, as testified to, it cannot be allowed to
control the settled and acknowledged law of the State in
respect to this description of paper." And, in Beirne v.
Dord,t the evidence of a custom that in the sale of blankets
in bales, where there was no express warranty, the seller
impliedly warranted them all equal to a sample shown, was
held inadmissible, because contrary to the settled rule of lawon the subject of chattels. But the latest authority in that
* 2 Johnson, 327.

t" 26 Wendell, 673.

I 1 Selden, 95.

Dec. 1870.]

BARNARD

V. KELLOGG.

Opinion of the court.

State on the subject, is the case of Simmons v. Law.* That
was an action to recover the value of a quantity of gold-dust
shipped by Simmons from San Francisco to New York on
Law's line of steamers, which was not delivered. An attempt
was made to limit the liability of the common carrier beyond the terms of the contract in the bill of lading by proof
of the usage of the trade, which was well known to the
shipper, but the evidence was rejected. The court, in commenting on the question, say: "A clear, certain, and distinct
contract is not subject to modification by proof of usage.
Such a contract disposes of all customs by its own terms, and
by its terms alone is the conduct of the parties to be regulated, and their liability to be determined."
In Pennsylvania this subject has been much discussed,
and not always with the same result. At an early day the
Supreme Court of the State allowed evidence of usage, that
in the city of Philadelphia the seller of cotton warranted
against latent defects, though there were neither fraud on
his part or actual warranty.t Chief Justice Gibson, at the
time, dissented from the doctrine, and the same court, in
later cases, has disapproved of it,t and now hold that a usage,
to be admissible, "must not conflict with the settled rules of
law, nor go to defeat the essential terms of the contract."
It would unnecessarily lengthen this opinion to review
any further the American authorities on this subject. It is
enough to say, as a general thing, that they are in harmony
with the decisions already noticed. See the American note
to Wigglesworth v. Dallison, 1 Smith's Leading Cases, where
the cases ate collected and distinctions noticed.
The necessity for discussing this rule of evidence has often
occurred in the highest courts of England on account of the
great extent and variety of local usages which prevail in that
country, but it would serve no useful purpose to review the
cases. They are collected in the very accurate English note
* 3 Keys, 219.

t Snowden v. Warder, 3 Rawle, 101.
: Coxe v. Heisley, 19 Pennsylvania State, 243; Wetherill v. Neillson, 20
Id. 448.

BARNARD

V.

KELLOGG.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

to Wiglesworth v. Dallison, and are not difTfrent in principle
fron. the general current of the American cases. If any of
the cases are in apparent conflict, it is not on account of any
difference in opinion as to the rules of law which are applicable.
These rules, says Chief Justice Wilde, in Spartali v. Benecke,* "are well settled, and the difficulty thht has arisen
respecting them, has been in their application to the varied
circumstances of the numerous cases in which the discussion
of them has been involved." But this difficulty does not
exist in applying these rules to the circumstances of this
case. It is apparent, that the usage in question was inconsistent with the contract which the parties chose to make for
themselves, and contrary to the wise rule of law governing
the sales of personal property. It introduced a new element
into their contract, and added to it a warranty, which the
law did not raise, nor the parties intend it to contain. The
parties negotiated on the basis of caveat emptor, and contracted accordingly. This they had the right to do, and by
the terms of the contract the law placed on the buyer the
risk of the purchase, and relieved the seller from liability
for latent defects. But this usage of trade steps in and seeks
to change the position of the parties, and to impose on the
seller a burden which the law said, on making his contract,
he should not carry. By this means a new contract is made
for the parties, and their rights and liabilities under the law
essentially altered. This, as we have seen, cannot be done.
If the doctrine of caveat emptor can be changed by a special
usage of trade, in the manner proposed by the custom of
dealers of wool in Boston, it is easy to see it can be changed
in other particulars, and in this way the whole doctrine
frittered away.
It is proper to add, in concluding this opinion, that the
conduct of the parties shows clearly that they did not know
of this custom, and could not therefore have dealt with ref.
erence to it.
10 Common Bench, 222.

:Dee. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HODSON.
Statement of the case.

JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to award a

VENIRE DE NOVO.

BRADLEY and STRONG, JJ., dissented.

UNITED STATES V. HODSON.
1. Revenue statutes being remedial in their character are to be construed
liberally to carry out the purposes of their enactment; and the rule of
construction applicable to statutes generally, that what is implied in
them is as much a part of the enactment as what is expressed, holds in
regard to them. This principle of construction applied to the 53d and
57th sections of the Internal Revenue Act of June 80, 1864.
2. Where a statute directs a bond to the government to be given by persons
exercising certain employments, and to be conditioned for the performance of several particular acts which it specifically states, and the agent
of the government takes a bond conditioned, not in the .specific way
that the statute directed, but for the parties' compliance with "al the
provisions" of the act, "and such other acts as are now or as may hereafter be in this behalf enacted," the bond, if it have been voluntarily
given, and is not contrary to law or public policy, is valid-as against a
party who has enjoyed benefits under it. And this, although the statute which required the bond to be conditioned in a particular way,
contain numerous other provisions, which it makes the duty of persons exercising employments under it, to comply with, but for which it
does not contemplate the giving of any bond.
3. On such a bond, suit in the present case was sustained for breaches which
the court adjudged to be within the conditions that the statute enacted
that the bond shquld contain;,the opinion of the court, however, asserting the validity of the bond on grounds more broad than it declared
necessary to the judgment; that is to say, more broad than to the extent
of the breaches assigned.
4. A bond which a statute says that a party whom it requires to be licensed
as a distiller, "shall" give before his license is issued, and which makes
it a penal offence for him to exercise the business of a distiller without
taking out such license, is a voluntary bond.
IN error to the Circuit Court of the District of Wisconsin,
the case being thus:
The Internal Revenue Act of June 30, 1864,* makes it
18 Stat. at Large, 242.

