Dec. 1870.]

UNITED

STATES V.

VIGIL.

Syllabus.

fraudulenjt omission, if available at all to the maker of the
note, can only be set up by special plea or urged on the trial.
It cannot be taken advantage of on demnurrer.
In the second place, if a stamp were -essential to the validity of paper of this kind, the averment in the declaration
that the defendants had made and delivered to the plaintiff
their promissory notes, would imply that the instruments
were at the time in the form and condition required by law.
It bas been held that in a declaration upon a conitract, some
memorandum of which, under the statute of frauds, must
be in writing, a compliance with the requisition of the statute
is implied in the averment that the contract was made, and
that such compliance need not be specifically stated, although
it must be proved if denied by the defendant. So in this
case the existence of a stamp upon the notes, as in the case
stated, the existence of a writing, is a matter of evidence
and not of pleading.*
In the third place, the filing of a plea to the merits after
the demurrer was overruled, operated as a waiver of the
demurrer. The pleading was thus abandoned, and ceased
thenceforth to be a part of the record.t
The defence is without merit, and the writ of error appears to us to have been prosecuted merely for delay. The
judgment will therefore be
AFFIRMED WITH TEN PER CENT.

UNITED

DAMAGES.

STATES V. VIGIL.

1. The court refused to dismiss an appeal by the United States from the
Territory of New Mexico, though, contrary to the usually obligatory
rule of practice, a transcript of the record bad not been filed in this
court until about two years after the end of the next term after the
1 Chitty, Pleadings, 804.
t Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Wallace, 42; Aurora City v. West, 7 Id. 92;
Young v. Martin, 8 Id. 354; Brown v. Saratoga Railroad Company, 18 New
York, 495.

UNITED STATES V.

VIGIL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
allowance of the appeal; it appearing, in excuse for the delay, that an
appeal had been properly prayed for in open court at the time that the
judgment was rendered, and was then granted; but that the clerk, for
some unexplained reason, had neglected to make an entry in his minutes
of what was thus done; that the district attorney, on whose application
the appeal was granted, not long after retired from office; that so soon
as the omission of the clerk was brought to the notice of a new district
attorney of the United States, succeeding, he made application to the
.court to amend the records so that it might appear in accordance with
the facts that the appeal had been prayed for at the term in which
the judgment was rendered, that the court granted the application and
ordered an entry to be made nune pro iunc of an appeal asked for at the
term when the judgment was given, and that it be granted.
2. The court adverts to the fact that the.government is obliged to trust the
conduct of cases in remote parts of the country to subordinate agents;
and that where the distance of the seat of government is so great from
them as it was here, the difficulty of communication should be taken
into view when considering the question of delay.

THIS was a motion- to dismiss an appeal taken on the part
of the United States from the Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico.
The suit was brought by Vigil and others to recover a
parcel of land in that Territory, under a special act of Congress, passed 21st June, 1860, which gave the right of appeal to either party, if asked for within one year from-the
rendition of the judgment. A judgment was rendered
against the United States in the court below, at the January
nrm,1867, from which an appeal was sought to be taken.
The only question was as to its regularity. It was maintained on the part of the government that the -appeal was
prayed for by the district attorney of the United 'States in
court at the time already mentioned, when the judgment
was rendered, and was granted, but that the clerk, for some
unexplained reason, neglected to make an entry in the minutes of what was thus done.
This omission of the clerk did not appear to have been
discovered by the district attorney till January Term, 1869.
In the meantime this officer in the Territory had retired
from the office, and when the omission was brought to his
notice by his successor he expressed his surprise, and stated
that he not only prayed for the appeal but charged the clerk

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.
Opinion of the court.

to make the entry, and, as he believed, gave him a memorandum to that effect. As soon as the omission came to the
knowledge of his successor, he made an application to the
court below to amen'd the. record so that it migbt appear
that the appeal had been prayed for, according to the facts,
at the term in which the judgment was rendered.
The court granted the application and ordered that an
entry be made, nunc pro tune, of an appeal in the cause,
asked fbr at the January Term, 1867, and that the same be
granted. But, of course, no transcript of the record was
returned and filed in this court before the end of the next
term after the allowance of the appeal regarding it as of
that date.
Messrs. Watts and .Ewing, Jr., in support of the motion,
Adverting to the fact that the record showed no citation,
insisted that although the pi'oceedings finally taken below
might establish the appeal and make it valid, as of the
January Term, 1867, yet, according to the settled practice
of the court, a transcript of the record in the court below
must be returned by the clerk and filed in this court before
the end of the next term after the allowance of the appeal;
otherwise that it would be dismissed for want ofjurisdiction,
and that, in this respect, the appeal was defective.
Mr. Akerman, Attorney- General, and Mr. C. H. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The action of the court below, granting the application
made to it by the new district attorney, and ordering that
an entry be made nunc pro tunc of an appeal in the cause,
asked for at the January Term, 1867, and that the same be
granted, completed the appeal, and we think it was well
sustained by the proof' before the court.
The practice relied on for the present motion for dismissal, may be admitted,* but there are exceptions to the
Castro v. United States,-8 Wallace, 46; Edmonson v. Bloomshire, 7 Id.
306.

UNITED STATFS 1. VIGIL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

rule. The United Slates v. Gomez* ia an instauce. There the
proeeedings on the appe-i had ben Suspended for the purpose of a motion in the court below to set it aside, and the
clerk also had refused to return and file the transcript.
These facts were regarded as a sufficient excuse for the delay in filing the record in this court at a subsequent term.
The United States v. Bootht had already established an exception. That was the case of a writ of error and the clerk
had refused to return or file the transcript, which occasioned
the delay.
The same principle was adopted in the case of Alviso v.
The United States.T The case had been dismissed at the December Term, 1866, for want of a citation. A motion was
made at the succeeding term to reinstate it upon the docket
on the production of proof that a citation had been signed
by the judge and served on the United States district attorney in due time. Ojection was taken that the proof came
too late, as, according to the settled practice of the court,
the motion to reinstate must be made at the same term at
which the motion to dismiss was granted. But it appearing
from the proofs that the clerk's office, where the records
were kept, had been partially destroyed by fire in July, 1866,
which occasioned great confusion and some loss of the papers, the court regarded the facts as affording a sufficient
excuse for the delay.
Now in the case before us the fault of the clerk in not
entering the prayer for the appeal has mainly occasioned
the delay in perfecting it. It is true the vigilance of the
United States district attorney might have corrected the
error, but unfortunately he labored under the conviction
that the appeal had been prayed for, and allowed, at the
time the judgment was rendered, and that nothing was left
to be done but the return and filing of the transcript by the
clerk, and was not undeceived till his attention was called
to the case by his successor.
This neglect of duty by the clerk and inattention of the
*8

Wallace, 762.

t 21 Howard, 512.

$ 6 Wallace, 457.

Dec. 1870.1

TAPPAN V. BEARDSLEY.
Syllabus.

district attorney led to the necessity of a motion to the court
to amend the record, so as to make it appear thereon that
the proper steps had been taken in due time to secure av
appeal on the part of the government. The prayer for an
appeal in due time, although not granted then by the court,
secures this right, and no delay by the court in its allowance
can impair it. The order nune pro tune contains the allowance. It is true some considerable delay has taken place in
perfecting this appeal, but the court is of opinion that it has
been sufficiently accounted for from the facts and circumstances appearing on the face of the record. The governmient is obliged to trust the conduct of cases, in remote
parts of the country, to subordinate agents, and the distance
in the present instance is so great from the seat of government that a very considerable lapse of time is required to
communicate with the head of the departmeint. In such
cases some indulgence must be extended to the officers thus
engaged, and this difficulty of communication should be
taken into consideration in determining the question of
delay in conducting the legal proceediirgs of the government.
The want of a citation was mentioned on the argument as
another ground of dismissal, but the answer is, the appeal
was taken in open court at the term in which the judgment
was rendered. In such cases no citation is necessary.
MOTION DENIED,

TDAPPAN

v.

BEARDSLEY.

1. It seems that, to establish the fact that a certain suit was brought, or the
time of its comtnencement, the record of it may be used .against one who
was no party to it; but only so much as is necessary for that purpose is
admissible.
2. Depositions which are incorporated into such a record are not admissible
in another suit, where the witnesses are competbnt, and can be procured in the second suit.
8. The right and 'he opportunity in a person to cross-examine are essential
to the use of such depositions against him.

