464

CORBETT V. NUTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabusl

CORBETT V. NUTT.
1. Statutes authorizing redemption from sales for taxes, are to be construed
favorably to the owners of the land, and particularly when such statutes
provide full indemnity to the purchaser and impose a penalty on the
delinquent.
2. Mrs. H., a resident at the time of Virginia, devised in April, 1863, certain lands situated in that State, and also other lands situated in the
District of Columbia, to N., in trust for two married women. On bill
filed by the cestuis que trust, the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia appointed M. trustee in place of N., and with the latter's
powers and duties; HeldThat although the appointment was invalid so far as the land in Virginia
was concerned; and that M. was thus not legally trustee of that land,
yet inasmuch as he was apparently clothed by the decree of the court
appointing him with the legal title and acted as trustee, and was treated
as such trustee by the cestuis que tust, the tax commissioners under the
act of June 7th, 1862, to collect taxes in the insurrectionary districts,
(and which provides that if the owner of land be under a legal disability
the trustee or other person having charge of the person or estate of such
owner may redeem the land sold for unpaid taxes), were authorized to
allow him to redeem the lands in Virginia sold under the said act, in
which such cestuis que trust were interested; that the commissioners
were not obliged to inquire into the validity'of the decree; and that it
was sufficient for them to allow. the redemption, when they found that
the party offering to redeem furnished primfaecieevidence of possessing
the character which entitled him under the statute to do so.
That M being thus clothed apparently with the legal title, and acting
under his appointment with the consent of the cestuis que trust, was a
person "having charge" of their estate, and was thus entitled to make
redemption for them of the lands sold for taxes within the meaning of
the said act.
8. The 7th section of the amendatory act of March 3d, 1865, which declares
"that no owner shall be entitled to redeem unless, in addition to the
oath prescribed by existing laws, he shall swear that he has not taken
part with the insurgents in the present rebellion, or a 'y way given
them aid or comfort, and shall satisfy the board of commissioners that
the said oath is true," applies only to owners seeking in person to
redeem, and not to trustees, guardians, and agents redeeming for others
whose property they have in charge.
4. The voluntary residence of a person within the Confederate lines during
the late rebellion, did not incapacitate him, under the act of July 17th,
1862, " to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize
and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes" (which act
makes -null and void all sales, transfers, and conveyances, of any estate

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT V. NUTT.
Statemenat of the case.

and property, of persons engaged in armed rebellion against the United
States, or aiding and abetting such rebellion, who after sixty days'
warning and proclamation duly given and made by the President, did
not cease to aid, countenance and abet such rebellion and return to their
allegiance to the United States, and which act prescribes proceedings to
condemn svch property, and apply the proceeds to the support of the
army), from makinga last will and testament, further, if at all, than as
against the United States.
5. Assuming (what is not decided) that a devise is within the terms "sales,
transfers, and conveyances," invalidated by the act, and that a person
who during the rebellion left loyal territory, and went to and resided
in and died in the rebel lines, is within the category of persons for whom
the, warning and proclamation of the President prescribed by the act'
was intended, the invalidity declared is to be regarded as limited, and
not absolute; and it is only as against the United States that the
sales, transfers, and conveyances," of property liable to seizure, are
null and void. They are not void as between private persons, or against
any other party than the United States.
6. Where land sold under the said act'of June 7, 1862, has been redeemed,
the owner is entitled to recover it from the purchaser at the tax sale,
without showing that the certificate of redemption has been forwarded
to the Secretary of the Treasury, and that the purchaser has been paid
his purchase-money by. draft drawn on the treasury of the United
States.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia; the
case being thus:
The seventh section of the-act of June 7th, 1862, for the
collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts, after
directing the advertisement and sale of lands, upon which
taxes due the United States remained unpaid, after a time
specified, enacts*By a first clause, that the owner Of the land, or any loyal
person of the United States having any interest in it, may
at any time, within sixty days after the sale, appear before the
board of tax commissioners, in proper person, and redeem
it from sale upon paying the amount of the tax and penalty,
with the interest and expenses prescribed, and taking an
oath, if a citizen, to support the Constitution of the United
States.
And by a second clause, that if the owner of the land be
12 Stat, at Large, 428, 424.
VOL. x.

80

CORBETT v. N'UTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

under a legal disability, the trustee, or other person having charge
of the person or estate of such owner, may redeem tit any
time within two years after the sale.
An act of March 3d, 1865, amendatory of the act just.mentioned, enacts that when a redemption is made the board of
tax commissioners shall certify the fact to the Secretary of
the Treasury, and that he shall repay the purchaser, by draft
on the treasury, the principal and interest of the purchasemoney; and that the purchaser shall deliver possession to
the owner redeeming.
It also enacts,* "that no owner shall be entitled to redeem
unless, in addition to the oath prescribed by existing laws,
he shall swear that he has not taken part with the insurgents
in the present rebellion, or any way given them aid or coinfort, and shall satisfy the board of commissioners that the
said oath is true."
,An act of July 17th, 1862, originating like the other two
in the exigencies of the late civil war, and entitled '1 An act
to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to
seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other
purposes," enacts by its fifth section,t that "to insure the
speedy t ermination of the present rebellion, it shall be the
duty of the President of the United States to cause the
seizure of all the estate and property, money, stocks, credits,
and effects of the persons" thereinafter named, "and to
apply and use the same, and the proceeds thereof, for the support
of the army of the United States."
The section then enumerates six classes of persons whose
property is thus made subject to seizure. The fourth class
ernlraces persons " who, having held an office of honor,
trust, or profit under the United States, shall thereafter hold
office in the so-called Confederate States."
The sixth section enacts that if any person within any
State or Territory of the United States, other than those
named in the previous section, being engaged in armed rebellion against the United States, or aiding or abetting such
* 13 Stat. at Large, 502.

t 12 Id. 590.

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT

v.

NUTT.

Statement of the case.

rebellion, shall not, within sixty days after public warning
and proclamation by the President of the United States,
cease to aid, countenance, and abet such rebellion, and return to his allegiance to the United States, all-the estate and
property, money, stocks, and credits of such person shall be
liable to seizure as aforesaid, and it shall be the duty of the
President to seize and use them as aforesaid, or the proceeds
thereof.
It continues:
"And all sales, transfers, or conveyances of any such property,
after the expiration of the said sixty days from the date of such
warning and proclamation, shall be null and void; and it shall be
a sufficient bar to any suit brought by such person for the possession or the use of such property, or any of it, to allege and
proVe that he is one of the persons described in this section."
[The proclamation of the President was made July 25th,
1862.]
The seventh section directs the proceedings to be instituted for the condemnation and sale of the property seized.
Witr these enactments of June and July, 1862, in force,
Mrs. Louisa Hunter died, April, 1863, seized of a tract of
land consisting of sixty acres, situated in the county of
Alexandria, in the State of Virginia, leaving a last will and
testament, by which she devised the premises, along with
certain real estate in the city of Washington, to one W. D.
Nutt, in trust for Marion Young, her adopted daughter, and
Emily Featherstonaugh, her niece, both of whom were then
and still are married women.
Prior to the war Mrs. Hunter resided in the county of
Alexandria, in Virginia, but after the occupation of Alexandria by the forces of the United States, she went within the
Confederate lines, apd there remained until her death.
Immediately preceding the commencement of the war,
Nutt held an office under the governrnent of the United
States. This he resigned in February, 1861, and in Septembee: following went within the Confederate lines, and took

CORBETT

v.

NUTT.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

office under the Confederate government, which he held at
the time of Mrs. Hunter's death.
On the 29th of February, 1864, the land in Virginia was
sold for taxes due the United States under the first of the
above quoted acts of Congress, the act, namely, of June
7th, 1862, providing for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States4 and at the
sale one W. P. Corbett became the purchaser, received the
commissioners' certificate of sale, and took possession of the
premises under the title thus acquired.
In July, 1865, the cestuis que trust, under the will of Mrs.
Hunter, filed a bill in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia to obtain the appointment of a new trustee in place
of the one named in the bill, setting forth that the testatrix
had left a large and valuable estate, the greater part of
which lay within the District; that the settlement of the
estate was impossible, by the terms of the will, without the
intervention of the trustee named therein, or another in
his stead, invested with his powers and duties; and that
they were informed that the trustee named declined to
qualify, or to accept the trusts reposed in him.
Nutt appeared to the suit and answered the bill, admitting
that he was the person named in the will, and that he had
declined to accept the trust thereunder. The court thereupon, at the hearing, adjudged that the complainants, the
cestuis que trust, were catitled to the relief prayed, and by its
decree appointed J..D. McPherson, of Washington, D. C.,
trustee, in "the name, place, and stead," "clothed with all
the powers and charged with all the duties reposed and
vested in said Nutt as trustee, by the testatrix mentioned in
the will," first requiring of him the execution of a bond in
the penal sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned for the
faithful performance of his trust.
On the 10th of February, 1866, McPherson, as trustee,
appeared before the tax commissioners and paid to them the
several sums required for the purpose of eficting a redemption of the property from the tax sale, and received from
them a certificate of redemption, stating the payments rdade

Dec.1870.]

CORBETT

v. NUTT.

Statement of the case.

by him, and that he had taken an oath to support the Constitution of the United States; and that Marion Young and
Emily Featherstonaugh, owners of the property, and married women at the time of the sale, and still under the same
disability, had sworn that they had not taken part with the
insurgents in the rebellion, or in any way given them aid or
comfort, and had satisfied the commissionei's that the oath
was true.
Nutt, the trustee appointed by Mrs. Hunter's will, now
brought suit in one of the State courts of Virginia to recover
the property, and on the trial offered in evidence the certificate of redemption against the objection of the defendant
that the redemption was illegal and did not sustain the claim
of the plaintiff. The court admitted it. To this ruling of
the court the defendant excepted.
The testimony being closed, the defendant requested instructions thus:
1. If the jury shall believe from the evidence that Nutt,
the plaintiff, who sues as trustee, held a position under the
government of the United States, and resigned said office,
went voluntarily within the lines of the Confederate States,
and accepted office under the Confederate government, and
held said office at the time of the death of the testatrix, and
that the said Louisa Hunter was a resident of the county of
Alexandria at the time of the breaking out of the civil war,
and after its breaking out went voluntarily into the Confederate lines and resided therein up to the time of her death,
and that the premises in the summons described were at all
times in the military lines and under the jurisdiction of the
United States, then that said devise to the plaintiff was inoperative to pass or transfer any title to him, and he cannot
therefore recover in this action.
2. That to enable the plaintiff to recover in this action,
he must show that the certificate of redemption was forwarded to the Secretary of the Treasury, "and me defendant
repaid his purchase-money by draft drawn on the treasury
of the United States.
The object of the instruction prayed, the defendant stated

CORBETT V.

NUTT.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument in favor of the purchaser.

in his petition to the Court of Appeals of Virginia, was to

raise the question as to the effect and meaning of the sixth
section of the above-quoted act of Congress of the 17th of
July, 1862, " to suppress insurrection, punish treason," &c.
The court refused to give the instructions thus asked for,
and the defendant excepted. Verdict and judgment havi:>l
gone for the plaintiff, the case was taken to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia, which sustained the judgment.

The case was now brought here under the 25th see-

tion of the Judiciary Act; the only ground of error alleged
in this court being that there was drawn in question the construction of,
1st. The act of Congress of June 7th, 1862, "for the collection of direct taxes in the insnrrectionary districts within
the United States, and for other purposes."
2d. The act passed July 17th, 1862, "to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes."
3d. The act of March 3d, 1865, amendatory of this last
act.
And that the decision of the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia was adverse to the right and title claimed under
the said acts.
Messrs. G. W. Brent and C. W. Wattles, for the plaintiff in
error:
One of several points argued and passed on in the court
below, was of course the point whether, after his answer in
the Supreme Court of the District, that he had declined to
accept the trusts under Mrs. Huntet's will, Nutt was still
trustee and could maintain a suit to recover the land, even
admitting that the redemption was rightly made. If that
matter is open in this court, it deserves consideration. Passing it by, however, we come to the matters excepted to.
1. As to the evidence. The certificate ought to have been
excluded, for it proved on its face that the redemption was
had. It describes McPherson as "trustee." But he was
not trustee of this land, for the court of the District of Co-

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT V.

NUTT.

Argument in favor of the purchaser.

lumbia could not appoint a trustee for lands in Virginia;
and as trustee of such land he had no power to redeem. It
is in vain to say that he redeemed as a person "having
charge" of the person or estate of the owner. The case
does not show that he had any charge of this land, inanother
State, still held in trust by a recognized trustee, if this suit
is rightly brought by Nutt. On the contrary, as trustee of
land in the District alone, he could have no lawful charge of
the other land; and the fact of Nutt's now bringing suit,
indicates rather that he, if any one, and not McPherson, had
the care of it. There is nothing which shows any relation
in McPherson to the two ladies except as he got it from the
court in the District, which could not give him charge of
lands out of it.
2. As to the instructions refused. The first one should have
been givem The act of 17th July, to suppress insurrection,
&c., makes by plain terms " null and void" "all sales, transfers, and conveyances" of persons "aiding and abetting"
the rebellion; and by it Mrs. Hunter was prevented from
selling, transferring, or conveying any estate and Nutt from
accepting any. When Mrs. Hunter left loyal territory to
go, and went, into the rebel lines, she became a rebel, for it
has been settled that all the citizens of the rebel "government " became enemies to the United States.* Moreover, a
person holding by devise, holds, in the language of the law,
'"by purehase." Where there has been a purchase, there
has, of necessity, been a sale. And, without resort to technical rules, a devise must be admitted to be " atransfer."
It has been decided to be "a conveyance."t We have thus
the case of a rebel, "sellin g transferring, conveying;" and
of an office-holder, who transfers the scene of Iris officeholding, attempting to take. But the statute declares all
"null and void." It cannot be said that no one but the
United States can object. The statute was a measure of
war. It comes, and was meant to come like "a tyrant;"
M
-rs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wallace, 404; The Venice, 1b. 258.
t Seaburn v. Seaburn, 15 Grattan, 423.

472

CORBETT

v. NUTT.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument in favor of the redemption.

its purpose was to inflict the greatest possible injury; to
make war short, by making it sharp and decisive. Office
found may be dispensed with by the sovereign ;* and under
this statute it was dispensed with, and the invalidity of the
transfer is allowed to be taken advantage of by any one concerned.
The second instruction refused should also have been
given. The object of the provision in the amendatory act
of March 3d, 1865, is twofold. First, to protect the treasury;
secondly, to benefit the purchaser. It invests the secretary
with a superintendency or revisory power over the tax commissioners. Before the owner is entitled to possession the
secretary must be satisfied that the lands have been duly
redeemed, and on being so satisfied he repays the purchaser,
and not until then is the owner entitled to the possession.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson, contra:
The matter of Nutt's right to sue was a matter of local
law decided affirmatively below, and not open as a Federal
question for discussion here. We proceed to the exceptions.
1. Selling land for taxes with no actual notice to owners,
is an extreme exercise of sovereign power; and as authorities show, the right of redemption being a right in favor of
property, is to be liberally construed. Courts support it,
and have presumed and intended against many probabilities
in support of it.1 Now here it is sufficiently plain that
McPherson had charge of this land. The oaths of the ladies
made in furtherance of his purpose to redeem, show that at
the time he redeemed he did have charge, and had it by
their assent, for they were acting in turtherance of his purpose as he was of theirs. From the time of his appointment
as trustee by the court of the District, his relation was necessarily confidential to them both. What so natural as that
he, who had their moneys from the District property, should
be in charge of property near it; the "trustee" of it deSmith v. Maryland, 6 Cranch, 286,

t Patterson v. Brindle,9 Watts, 100; Gault's Appeal, 33 Pennsylvania
State, 94; Dubois v. Hepburn, 10 Peters, 1.

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT

v.

NUTT.

Opinion of the court.

clining to take actual charge, and McPherson not being
able under his appointment to act as trustee in his place?
The statute does not speak of the time when the charge is
to begin. If it be within two years, it is enough. The certificate was then rightly admitted.
2. The instructions asked for were rightly refused. There
was no condemnation under the seventh section by the government. This justified the refusal of the first one.* And
the request for the secon'd proceeds on a misconception of
the act on which the request was founded.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Several questions were raised and elaborately examined
in this case in the courts of Virginia, both in the lower
courts and in the Court of Appeals cf the State, which are
not open f6r consideration here. The only questions which
we can consider, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, arise upon the ruling of the court admitting the
certificate of redemption issued to McPherson, and the refusal to give certain instructions prayed by the defendant.
The seventh section of the act of June 7th, 1862, for the
collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts, after
directing the advertisement and sale of lands, upon which
taxes due the United States.remained unpaid, after a designated period, contains two clauses relating to the redemption
of th land from such sale.t The first clause provides that
the owner of the land, or any loyal person of the United
States having any valid lien upon or interest in the land, may
at any time, within sixty days after the sale, appear before
the board of tax commissioners, in proper person, and redeem
the land from sale upon paying the amount of the tax and
penalty, with the interest and expenses prescribed, and taking
an oath, if a citizen, to support the Constitution of the United
States. The second clause provides that if the owner of the
land sold be a minor, a non-resident alien, a loyal citizen
beyond the seas, a person of unsound mind, or under a legal
* Fairfax v. Hunter, 7 Cranch, 603.

t 12 Stat. at Large, 423, 424.

474

CORBETT V. NUTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

disability, the guardian, trustee, or other person having
charge of the person or estate of such owner, may, in the
same manner and with like effect, redeem the land at any
time within two years after the sale.
By these provisions persons entitled to make redemption
are divided into two classes. The first class embraces persons who are residents in the country, and are not laboring
under any legal disability. They may well be supposed to
have had personal knowledge of the assessment of the taxes
and of the sale made, and for this reason, it may be inferred,
their privilege of redemption was limited by Congress within
the narrow period prescribed.
The second class embraces loyal citizens beyond the seas,
non-resident aliens, and persons laboring under some legal
disability, to whom the reason for the limitation prescribed
to the first class was not applicable. To those absent from
the country, personal knowledge, either of the assessment or
sale, could not be justly imputed; and those under disability, if possessed of the knowledge, might reasonably expect that the matter would receive the attention of the parties
intrusted with the charge of the property. Congress, therefore, gave to the persons of this class a much more extended
period within which to exercise the privilege of redemption,
and allowed the redemption to be made by "the guardian,
trustee, or other person having charge of the person or
estate" of the owner. The position of the persons composing this class, absent from the country, or under legal
disability, was such that their .property would, in the ordinary course of things, be in the "charge" of others, but, lest
the latter might, from any cause, n eglect the interests of the
owners, the period of redemption -was prolonged to two
years. It was for the benefit of the owners of the property,
that they might not suffer from the remissness or faithlessness of their guardians, trustees, or agents, that the privilege was thus extended, and to secure that benefit the act
should be liberally construed. It is the general rule of
courts to give to statutes authorizing redemption from tax
sales a construction favorable to owners, particularly when

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT

v. NUTT.

Opinion of the court.

they provide, as in the present case, full indemnity to the
purchaser, and impose a penalty upon the delinquent.*
In this case it appears to be conceded that the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia exceeded its authority in
appointing McPherson trustee, in place of Nutt, of the land
in Virginia. That court could not by the mere force of its
decree transfer the title to land lying without its juiisdiction
from the party in whom it was vested by the will of Mrs.
Hunter. A court of equity acting upon the person of a defendant may control the disposition of real property belonging to him situated in another jurisdiction, and even in a
foreign country. It may decree a conveyance and enforce
its execution by process against the defendant, but neither
its decree nor any conveyance under it, except by the party
in whom the title is vested, is of any efficacy beyond the
jurisdiction of the court. This is familiar law, and was
declared by this court in Watkins v. Holman,t the court observing that- " no principle was better established than that
the disposition of real estate, whether by deed, descent, or
by any other mode, must be governed by the law of the
state where the land is situated."
McPherson was not, therefore, legally trustee of
the property in Virginia, and if his right to interpose for the redemption depended upon the possession of the legal title,
his action might be treated as that of a stranger to the land.
But the absolute possession of such title by him was not
essential under the circumstances. He regarded himself as
trustee of the property. The cestuis que trust so regarded
him. He professedly acted in their behalf and for their interests. He was apparently, from the decree of the Supreme Court of the District, clothed with the legal title.
The'commissioners treated him .as a person entitled to make
the redemption. They were not obliged to inquire into the
validity of the decree. They were not expected to enter upon
investigations of title any further than was necessary to prevent the impertinent intermeddling of strangers. It was
*Dubois v. Hepburn, 10._Peters, 22.

t 16 Peters, 67.

CORBETT v. N UTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sufficient for the commissioners to allow the redemption,
when they found that the party offering to redeem furnished
primdfacie evidence of possessing the character which entitled him under the statute to make the redemption.
The trustee named in the will not having accepted the
trust reposed in him when the decree of the Supreme Court
of the District was made, it is reasonable to suppose from
the subsequent conduct of McPherson that he immediately
took actual charge of the estate for the cestuis que trust, and
was in such charge when the redemption was made. If
such were the case, and we think there is little doubt of it,
McPherson was by the very words of the statute authorized,
without regard to the validity of the decree, as a person
"having charge" of the estate of the owners, who were
laboring under disability by reason of their coverture, to
make the redemption ; although from the ineffectual parol
disclaimer of his trust by Nutt, the legal fitle may have remained in the latter, which required the present action for
the recovery of the property to be brought in his name.
It is further objected that, assuming that McPherson was
entitled to redeem, the redemption was ineffectual because
he did not take the oath required by the seventh section of
the amendatory act of March 3d, 1865, which declares
"that no owner shall be entitled to r~deem unless, in addition to the oath prescribed by existing laws, he shall swear
that he has not taken part with the insurgents in the present
rebellion, or any way given them aid or comfort, and shall
satisfy the board of commissioners that the said oath is
true."*
But the objection is untenable. McPherson did not redeem as owner, but as trustee of the owners, or as a person
"having charge" of their property. The act of 1862 distinguishes between owners appearing in their proper persons
and redeeming, and owners beyond the seas or laboring
tinder some legal disability and redeeming through trustees,
guardians, or persons having charge of the pr6perty.t It
*13

Stat. at Large, 60.2.

t-1.2
Staf.tt

arge, 423-4.

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT

v. Nk]UTT.

Opinion of the court.

requires both of the owners redeeming in person, and of the
trustees, guardians, and agents redeeming for 'others, an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States. It
specifies the taking of the oath as one of the terms on which
the redemption can be made by owners and loyal persons
having a lien upon or interest in the property sold, When
appearing in person before the commissioners. And it subsequently authorizes a redemption by trustees, guardian's,
and parties acting for others, "in the manner above provided ;" that is, by making the like payments and taking a
similar oath. But the additional oath imposed by the act
of 1865 is, in our judgmen~t, required only of owners seeking in person to redeem. It declares that "no owner shall
be entitled to redeem " unless he take the additional oath.
If the requirement extended also to owners beyond the
seas or laboring under legal disability, it could not in many
cases be complied with, and the beneficial object of the act,
which was to secure to them the right of redemption, would
be defeated.
We have not overlooked the fact that, in the present case,
the certificate of redemption states that the additional oath
was taken by the owners. * I nis circumstance is not entitled
to weight because the owners do not themselves make the
redemption; and if they could be themselves considered as
redemptioners, they failed to take the oath to support the
Constitution required by the act of 1862.
We proceed to consider the prayers for instructions presented by the defendant and refused by the court. By the
first of these prayers the court was requested to declare, in
effect, that the voluntary residence of the testatrix within.
the Confederate lines incapacitated her from making a last
will and testament; and the resignation by the plaintiff of
an office under the United Statqs, and acceptance of an office
under the Confederate government incapacitated him from
acting as trustee under her will, and taking the devise in
that capacity.
The object of the instruction prayed, says the defendant

CORBETT

v. N

UTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in his petition to the Court of Appeals of Virginia, was to
raise the question as to the effect and meaning of the sixth
section of the act of Congress, passed on the 17th of July,
1862, entitled "Ai! act to suppress insurrection, to punish
treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of
rebels, and for other purposes."
The previous section of the act provides that, "to insure
the speedy termination of the present rebellion, it shall be
the duty of the President of the United States to cause the
seizure of all the estate and property, money, stocks, credits,
and effects of the persons" thereinafter named, "and to
apply and use the same, and the proceeds thereof, for the
support of the army of the United States."*
The section then enumerates six classes of persons whose
property is thus made subject to seizure. The fourth class
embraces persons "who, having held an office of honor,
trust, or profit under the United States, shall thereafter hold
office in the so-called Confederate States." The section concludes by declaring that "all sales, transfers, or conveyances
of any such property shall be null and void."
The sixth section provides that if any person within any
State or Territory of the Utited States, other than those
named in the previous section, "being engaged in armed
rebellion against the United States, or aiding or abetting
such rebellion, shall not, within sixty days after public warning and proclamation duly given and made by the President
of the United States, cease to aid, countenance, and abet
such rebellion, and return to his allegiance to the United
States, all the estate and property, moneys, stocks, and
credits of such person shall be liable to seizure as aforesaid,
and it shall be the duty of the President to seize and use
them as aforesaid, or the proceeds thereof.
"Ahid all sales, transfers, or conveyances of any such
property, after the expiration of the said sixty days from the
date of such warning and proclamation, shall be null and
void; and it shall be a-sufficient bar to any suit brought by,
12 Stat. at Large, 590.

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT

v.

N'UTT.

Opinion of the court.

such person for the possession or the use of such property,
or any of it, to allege and prove that he is one of the persons
described in this section."
The seventh section of the act directs the proceedings to
be instituted for the condemnation and sate of the property
seized.
If the devise of Mrs. Hunter can be brought within thie
language of this last section, it must be because a devise is
embraced within the terms "sales, transfers, and conveyances ;" and because her "aiding and abetting" the rebellion, and her refusal to return to her allegiance to the
United States, are legitimate and necessary inforences from
her voluntary and continued residence within the Confederate lines, for there is no direct evidence on either of these
latter points, nor any evidence tending to establish either of
them except such voluntary residence. Assuming, however,
that a devise is within the " sales, transfers, and conveyances" invalidated by the act, and that Mrs. Hunter is within
the category of persons for whom the warning and proclamation of the President were intended, we are of the opinion
that the invalidity declared is lira;ted and not absolute; that
it is only as against the United States that the "sales, transfers, and conveyances" of property liable to seizure are null
and void; and that they are not void as between private persons, or against any other party than the United States.
The object of the provisions cited is manifest. It is declared, in express terms, to insure the speedy termination of
the existing rebellion. The confiscation of the property of
persons engaged in the rebellion, and the appropriation of
it, or its proceeds, to the support of the army of the United
States, were supposed to have a tendency to advance that
object. The seizure of the property of particularly designated classes, and of others engaged in the rebellion, or aiding and abetting it, who should not heed the public warning
and proclamation of the President, was therefore directed,
as also the institution of proceedings required in the courts
of the United States for its condemnation and sale.
It was to prevent these provisions from being evaded by

480

CORBETT V.

NUTT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the parties whose property was liable to seizure that "1sales,
transfers, and conveyances" of the property were declared
invalid. They were null and void as against the belligerent
or sovereign right of the United States to appropriate and
use the property for the purpose designated, but in no other
respect, and not as against any other party. Neither the
object sought, nor the language of the act, requires any
greater extension of the terms used. The United States
were the only party who could institute the proccedings for
condemnation; the offince for which such condemnation
was decreed was against the United States, and the property
condemned, or its proceeds, went to their sole use. They
alone could, therefore, be affected by the sales.
Any other construction would impute to the United States
a severity in their legislation entirely foreign to their history. No people can exist without exchanging commodities.
There must be buying and selling and exchanging in every
community, or the greater part of its inhabitants would
have neither food nor raiment. And yet the argument of
the defendant, if good for anything, goes to this extent, that
by the act of Congress "all sales, transfers, and conveyances"
of property of the vast numbers engaged in the late rebellion against the United States, constituting the great majority of many towns, and cities, And even of several states,
were utterly null and void ; that even the commonest transactions of exchange in the daily life of these people were
tainted with invalidity. It is difficult to conceive the misery
which would follow from a legislative decree of thiswidesweeping character in any community, where its execution
was conceived to be possible, or confidence was reposed in
its validity.
We do not notice that part of the instruction prayed
which relates to the status of the plaintiff as an office-holder
under the United States just previous to the commencement
of the war, and subsequently taking-office under the Confederate government, as it was not his property, the sale of
which is assailed. If he was incapable of taking the devise,
it was not from his participation in the rebellion, but because

Dec. 1870.]

CORBETT V.

NUTT.

Opinion of the court.

the testatrix was incapable of passing her property by will
under the act of Congress, a position which we have already
shown to be untenable.
The second, and the only other prayer for instruction presented by the defendant, and refused by the court, which
we can* take notice of, is this: "That to enable the plaintiff
to recover lie must show that the certificate of redemption
was forwarded to the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
defendant repaid his purchase-money by a draft drawn on
the Treasury of the United States." This prayer was based
upon a misapprehension of the seventh section of the act of
Congress of March 3d, 1865,* which provides that when a
redemption is made the board of tax commissioners shall
certify the flct to the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
secretary shall repay the purchaser, by draft on the treasury,
the principal and interest of the purchase-money; and that
the purchaser shall deliver possession to the owner redeeming. These provisions only prescribe the duty both of the
secretary and purchaser when the redemption is made, but
they do not make the performance of the duty of the purchaser dependent upon the previous performance of the duty
resting on the secretary. The act was intended for the
benefit of the purchaser, to enable him to obtain the repayment of the purchase-money and interest thereon; but the
validity of the redemption does not depend upon such repayment. That is a matter between the purchaser and the
secretary, with which the owner or redemptioner has no
concern.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia must be, therefore,
ArFirRMED.

13 Stat. at Large, 502.

VOL.

X.

