TIE COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE COLUMBIA.
A steamer crossing another so as to involve risk of collision, condemned in
a case of collision:
that when steam1st. For violation of the regulation, then existing,
vessels we'e so crossing, the one which had the other on her own starboard should keep clear.
2d. For not keeping clear, being the following vessel.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York.
The owners of the propeller Jersey Blue libelled the steamship Columbia, one of the Charleston line of steamers, in the
District Court for the Southern District of that State, on account of a collision which occurred in the harbor of New
York, on the afternoon of the 7th of January, A.D. 1860.
The case, as assumed by the court on the testimony, was thus:
The propeller started on a voyage from the coal docks in
Jersey City across the Hudson to the Fast River. The tide
was strong ebb, and there was very little wind. From her
start her course was nearly towards the Battery, New York,
somewhat south of east, and she kept on that course until
almost immediately before the collision. Her rate of speed
was probably not far from six miles an hour. Soon after
she left the docks the 6teamship Columbia pushed out from
pier No. 4, on the New York side of the Hudson, to conmence her voyage to Charleston. There was at that time a
body of floating ice, extending outward from the piers'six
or eight hundred feet, but beyond the ice the river was clear.
As the ship hauled out into the stream her bow was swung
by the tide downward, and her helm was put to the starboard. Whether she had cleared the ice-fields before she
headed down the bay, was a matter somewhat disputed, but
not one of importance. If she had not entirely cleared it,
she had so far done so as that only her port wheel was in
the ice-field W',hen she met the propeller. All was open on
her starboard side. She proceeded down the river, in a
course nearly parallel with the outer ends of the piers, prob-

Dec. 1869.]

THE COLUMBIA.
Statement of the case.

ably just on the 6uter edge of the ice-field, and at the rate
of not less than four miles an hour. When she came to a
point nearly opposite Castle Garden, and a little below the
Battery, she collided with the propeller, her starboard wheel

(44
0
0
G~vernors
Island

mounting the deck of the propeller about midships, on the
larboard side, and walking over it forty or fifty feet, doing
considerable damage' Tjhere were other important circumstances. preceding the collision. The Columbia was seen
fronfthe propeller soon after she hauled out from the pier
andcommence4, swinging down the river. The propeller
then'Jblew one w;histle, which was not answered. When the
vessels approached each other and danger of collision appeared, the propeller again blew one whistle, 'thus signalling
that she, intended to pass on the right. This second signal

THE

COLUMBrA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

was not answered. But when they came within six or seven
hundred feret of each Other the pilot of the Columbia hailed
that he could not stop, and the engine of the propeller was
immediately reversed, and she commenced backing.. The
backing was continued until the collision, entirely stopping
the headway of the propeller, and swinging her head somewhat outwards fi'om New York. On the other hand, the
propeller was seen from the Columbia when the latter was
only about one hundred yards from pier No. 4, and before
she had taken her course down the river. She was seen to
be heading from Jersey City about towards the Battery, and
to be, at most, about half a mile distant. She was off the
starboard bow of the Columbia, and only her port side could
be seen. It was apparent that her course must cross any
course the Columbia coul take. After the latter had headed
down the river and had come within six or seven hundred
feet oF the propeller, her helm was put to the starboard, so
that she headed inside of Governor's Island, instead of west
of the island, her proper course out to sea. She then hailed,
but did not stop her engine, or certainly not, until the collision had taken place.
Thus far there was very little controversy in regard to the
facts. Most of them appeared in the answer to the libel.
and irom the testimony of the pilot of the Columbia.
But the libellants relied, for the condemnation of the
steamer, on another ffict, which they conceived that the evidence showed; the fact, namely, that the Columbia was the
followvng vessel, and so by the rules of navigation bound to
keep out of the propeller's way. On this part of the case,
Chadsey, the captain of the Jersey Blue, testified that he
first saw the Columbia when his own vessel was south of
pier No. 1, and two or tl4ree hundred yards distant; that he
saw her over his left shoulder as he was standing at the
wheel; that she was then just coming out of pier No. 4, and
swinging down the river. This was evidently before she
had straighteied on her course. If this was so, the Columbia
must have been above, namely, further up the river, and the
fbllowing vessel. Captain Chadsey's testimony was corrob-

Dec. 1869.]

THE COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the court,

orated by that of Green, the engineer, Taylor, a deck hand,
and by the testimony of Klickner and Pritchard, shipwrights,
who repaired the propeller after the collision. The shipwrights both testified that " the character of the injuries
showed that the steamship must have struck her and worked
forward on her;" "that the motive force must have come
from aft forward;" that the chain-bolts of the propeller were
bent forward; and that this could not have been, but on the
contrary, the exact reverse, unless the Columbia overtook
the propeller and struck her from aft.
The evidence offered to rebut this was that of Iutchinson,
the engineer of the Columbia, who stated that when he saw
the propeller she was some two hundred yards distant, headed
obliquely to the Columbia, and as he thought, above, le
added immediately: "lHowever, my not being on the deck to
notice the compass, everything appeared abeam to me." Kelso,
the pilot, stated that when he first saw the propeller (his own
ship being one hundred yards out from pier No. 4) she was
half a mile distant, and his impression was that she was above
at the time, though lie adds, "I cannot swear she was above;
the boats were angling towards one anolher." There was no
other testimony given to prove that the Columbia was not
the following vesse
The District Court dismissed the libel, but on appeal to
the Circuit Court the decree was reversed, and judgment
given against the Columbia. The case was now here on appeal from that decree.
Mr. Benedict, for the appellant; Mr. Donohue, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
From those facts which appear in the answer to the libel,
and from the testimony of the pilot of the Columbia, and
about which there is very little controversy, it is not difficult
to determine where the fault of the collision in this case lies.
The propeller was all the time, from the moment she was
first seen, off the starboard side of the Columbia. It was

THE COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

therefore the duty of the latter to keep out of the way. The
regulationis then existing required.that when two steam vessels were crossing, so as to involve risk of collision, the one

which lhd the other on her own starboard should keep clear.
Plainly she had no right to expect the propeller to change
her course. It was therefore a fault in the Columbia that
she did not port her helm and go astern of the other vessel.
And thb fault was the more inexcusable because she knew,
even before she had settled on her course, that the course of
the propeller must take her across any line the Columbia
could take in going directly out to sea. There was nothing,
then, to prevent her adopting such a course as would have
avoided all danger of a collision. Instead of thtt she went
straight down the river, in a line nearly parallel with the
ends of the piers and very near to them, and', as the vessels
approached each other on converging lines, she swung to
port, so as to conic more directly into the line.of the propeller's course. This, was the exact opposite of what she
should have done.
We think also the evidence establishes that the Columbia
was the following vessel, and, if she was, another regulation
required her to keep out of the way of the propeller. There
is no satisfactory evidence to rebut the testimony of Captain
Chadsey as to the positions of the vessels, and it is corroborated by the testimony of Green, the engineer, Taylor, a
deck hand, and of both the shipwrights Who repaired the
propeller. They both testify that the force of the collision
must have come firom aft forward. The chain-bolts of the
propelicer were bent forward, which could not have been
unless the Columbia overtook the propeller and struck her
from aft. The testimony giveln to prove that the Columbia
was not the following vessel manifestly tends to prove the
contrary. Maps have been exhibited to us describing the
situation of the piers and the course of the propeller from
the coal docks to the place of collision. If they are to be
relied upon, and if the propeller was not more than a half
mile from the Columbia when Kelso (the pilot) saw her, she
must have been below pier No. 1, as the evidence for the

Dec. 1869.]

DEmiN'G'S A PPE4L.
Statement of the case.

libellant shows she was, when the Columbia was only one
hundred yards from pier No. 4. It seemsto be satisfactorily
established, therefore, that the Columbia was the followingo
vessel. Of course the fault of the collision was hers. She
had two courses before her, either of which would have
avoided the disaster. Had she put farther out from her
pier, where she had clear water, before heading down the
river, or if, after heading down, she had ported her helm, as
the regulations required, instead of starboarding, or even if
she had stopped when she, saw danger of collision, she would
have passed astern of the propellerand. no injury would have
been done. By so doing she wobld have pursued her most
direct course out to sea. But she did neither. She made
no attempt to slacken her speed'when the danger became
imminent, and by starboarding she precipitated herself
directly upon the libellant's vessel.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED, WITH INTEREST
AND COSTS.

DEMING'S APPEAL.

Motion to reinstate a supposed legal tender case denied on the ground
chiefly of laches; notwithstanding consent of the other side, the
United States.
LATHAM and Deming being entitled, each of them, to
recov.er a certain sum of money from the United States for
work done prior to the act of February 25th, 1862, known
as the first of the." Legal Tender Acts," appealed, after the
passage of the acts, to the Treasury for payment. They
demanded coin, but were offered and accepted paper; "protesting," when receiving the paper, against such miode of
payment. They then brought, each of them, a suit in the
Court of Claims against the government to recover the
difference in value between the coin Which t-hey had asked
for and the paper which they accepted. The Court of
Claims decided against them, and they both appealed to

