Dec. 1870'.]

BROBST v.

BROCK.

Statement of the case.

BRoBST V. BROCK.
1. If for any reason appearing in the record it is clear that a plaintiff in
error, who was also plaintiff below, cannot recover in the. action, the
court will not determine whether error was committed in instructions
given to the jury respecting other parts of the case. To warrant the
reversal of a judgment, there must not only be error found in the record,
but the error must be such as may have worked injury to the party complaining.
2. A mortgagor of land, as between himself and his mortgagee, has only an
equitable title. He cannot, therefore, recover in ejectment against the
mortgagee in possession, after breach of the condition, or against persons holding possession under the mortgagee.
Quore, whether such a suit can be maintained until redemption, even
though the money secured by the mortgage has been paid or tendered.
8. Twenty-five adjoining tracts of wild and uninhabited land, surveyed in
a block, and separated by no marks on the ground, were pprelhased from
the commonwealIth by one person at one time, and subsequently conveyed by him as an entirety by one deed. His grantee also conveyed
them as a whole by one deed, and the second grantee mortgaged tltfm
as a whole in the same way. After the debt secured by the mortgage
fell due, the mortgagee placed a tenant upon the lands, whose actual
occupancy, or pedis possessio, did not extend beyond the limits of a
single tract"
Held, that the possession of the whole body of land, as described in the
deed, must be presumed to have been taken by the mortgagee in right
of the mortgage.
4. An irregular judicial sale made at the suit of a mortgagee, even though
no bar to the equity of redemption, passes to the purchaser at such sale
all the rights of the mortgagee as such.
5. No presumption of payment of a mortgage can arise from lapse of time
against a mortgagee or his assigns in possession, when the mortgagor
became insolvent and died before the debt fell due, and when his vendee
of the equity of redemption also became insolvent before the maturity
of the debt, removed from the State, and never afterwards returned.

E RROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, the suit below being an ejectment ibr an undivided fourth of a tract of land, and the case bcing this:
The tract for a fourth of which the ejectment was brought,
was the easternmost of twenty-five adjoining tracts in Pennsylvania which were surveyed in 1793, on warrants issued
the same year, and for which separate patents were issued

520

BROBST V. BROCif.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

on the 9th and 10th of May, in 1816, to one George Grant,
who in the same year conveyed the whole, forming a tract
of 10,000 acres, to Thomas B. Smith. Smith conveyed the
whole in undivided fourths, on the 27th of September, to
Michael Brobst and three other pexsons, one-fourth to each.
On the 6th March, 1817, Brobst mortgaged his undivided
fourth to Samuel Wood, for $1500, payable on the 1st of
April, 1821; the mortgage being properly recorded. The
deeds of both Grant and Smith, and the mortgage of Brobst
described the land collectively as one tract.
Michael and John Brobst were brothers, and were engaged in partnership in making iron in Berks County, in
the eastern part of Pennsylvania. They failed in business,
and confessed several judgments, among them one, January
17, 1817, for $1000, to Jacob Kutz and Jacob Levan.
On the 15th May, 1817, Michael Brobst conveyed to his
brother, John Brobst, his undivided fourth of the twentyfive tracts and went to Illinois, where he died, in 1820, never
having married; news of his death being brought to Pennsylvania about 1823.
John Brobst left the eastern parts of Pennsylvania, where
he lived, about the year 1820, went to distant parts of the
State for a short time, and in 1824 out of it to Maryland.
His place of residence was unknown to his relatives in
Pennsylvania. He was supposed to be-dead, and 'about the
year 1847, letters of administration on his'estate were issued;
though in point of fact-he did not die till 1861.
The mortgage already mentioned as given in 1817 by
Michael Brobst to Wood, having been assigned in the same
year by Wood to a certain Dunn, and by him to one'Boyer,
Boyer on the 3d of November, 1825, proceeded by the mode
usual in Pennsylvania; where mortgages. are recorded, and
considered, in some respects, as records, to foreclose it; that
is to say, he issued upon it a wr4 of seirefacias, under an
act of 1705.
By this old act the mortgagee is authorized a year and i
day after the mortgage is payable, to sue forth, if it remains
unpaid, a writ of scire facias from the Court of Common

.Dec..l70.]

"3

Dec.. 1870.]

B~OBST v. BROOK.

,OBST

v. BROCK!

Statement of the case.

Pleas, of the. county where the mortgaged premises lie,
directed to the proper o1ficer, requiring him, by honest and
lawful men of the neighborhood,
"To make known to the mortgagor, his, her, or their heirs, executors or administrators,that he. or they be and appear before
the magistrates, judges, or justices of the said court or courts,
to show if anything he or they have to say wherefore the said
mortgaged premises ought not to he seized or taken in execution
for payment of the said mortgage-money, with interest, &c.
And if the defendant in such scirefacia6 appears, he or she may
plead satisfaction or payment of part or all the mortgage-money,
or any other lawful plea; but if such defendants in such scire
facias will not- appear on the day whereon the writ shall be
made returnable, then, if the case be such as damages only are
to be recovered, an inquest shallTorthwith be charged to inquire
thereof, aqd the definitive judgment therein as well as allother
judgments to be given upon such scire facias shall be entered,
that the plaintiff in the scirefaciasshall have execution by levari
facias, directed to the proper officer, by virtue whereof the said
mortgaged premises shall be taken in execution and sold," &c.
The writ issued as already mentioned was directed against
"Michael Brobst with notice to terre tenant," and confessedly
was not served in the way the most proper. There was. no
personal service upon the mortgigor, who in fact was dead,
nor any upon his heirs or representatives, nor any upon the
true terre tenant, that is to say, upon John Brobst; the holder
of the title being the only person regarded in Pennsylvania
as falling within thai designation. Neither was this want
of aciual service supplied by a return of two nihils, which in
Pennsylvania are commonly regarded as the equivalent of
service. The return was thus:
"Served upon Jacob Rodeberger, terre tenant, 21 miles. Sci.
fa. sur mortgage, debt $3000. March 29, 1826, judgment lev.
fac. July Term, 1826, 46."
Upon this irregular service, judgment was entered on mo.
tion that the mortgaged lands be sold to satisfy the debt. And

BROBST V. BROCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

upon this judgment all the mortgaged property was sold on
the 22d March, 1828, to one Chales Frailey, to whom a
sheriff's deed was made; Frailey purchasing at the request
of Boyer, assignee of the mortgage, and with his money.
lHe subsequently conveyed to John Smull, whose title became vested in Brock and others, defendants in the case.
The body of lands patented to Grant were uninhabited
until about 1824, when one Philip Rodeberger erected a
small log tavern in what was still a wilderness, upon a tract
adjoining the tract whose fourth part was here sued for, and
cleared an acre or two of ground.
In 1834 a partition of some sort, valid or invalid, was
made of the four undivided fourths of the whole twenty-five
tracts, and the parties who had been originally co-owners
with the Brobsts took what they considered their own purparts in severalty.
No further improvements than Rodeberger's were made
on any of the purparts until 1847, when the owners of some
of the purparts (not derived through the Brobsts) laid out
towns, began building railroads, opening coal mines, and
making extensive and costly improvements, which had
been continued to the present time, when not less than ten
thousand people live in the various towns laid out on the
land-with their churches, halls, manufactories, stores,
school-houses, dwellings, cemeteries, &c., &c.
About the year 1848, possession was taken of the purpart
allotted to the Brobst alienees, by the present defendants,
and those from whom they derived title, who had paid
taxes from that time to the present; and on these purparts,
also, similar improvements had been made and hundreds
of houses and other buildings erected, and inhabited by a
large population, and more than half a million of dollars
expended in mining improvements.
In this state of things the heirs and devisees of John
Brobst brought the present ejectment, A.D 1865, against
Brock and others to recover, as already stated, an undivided
fourth of one of the tracts; one warranted in the name of
Deborah Grant.

.Dec. 1870.]

B ROBST v. BROCK.

Argument for the mortgagors.

In' addition to the title made, as already stated, under the
mortgage, the defendants asserted that they were possessed
of a title under the partition made in 1834; also by virtue
of a sheriff's sale of the property under the judgment of
Kutz and Levan, already mentioned as entered against the
Brobsts, also under a tax sale, as the property of John
Brobst, of the particular lot sued for.
Every one of the titles set up by defendants, including all
the last-mentioned titles, were disputed by the plaintiff; as
irregular, null, and void.
The court below (GRIER, J.) charged that the title set
up under the partition was good enough, as also that set up
under the judgments of Kutz and Levan. In regard to the
title set up under the mortgage, he said that it was not
necessary to decide whether those proceedings were regular
and sufficient to extinguish the equity of redemption and
vest a title in the purchaser; but that admitting that they
might have been set aside or could be, it was first necessary
to show that the mortgage debt was paid or offered to be
paid, which was not shown; that as to redemption now,
more than thirty years had elapsed, during which time John
Brobst, the owner of the equitable title, had taken no step
to assert or establish his right to redeem. That in such
case the'presumption of lawwas that he had released his
equitable right, and equity would give him no remedy after
his sleep of thirty years. " He must now," said the court,
"as plaintiff in this case, show a legal title. He has shown
no valid title, either legal or equitable."
Judgment having gone for the defendant, the plaintiff
brought the case here.
It was fully and ably argued on all the points decided
below; Messrs. G. W. Woodward, Brent, and Crittenden,for the
plaintiff, contending that the partition of 1834, the sale under
the judgment of Kutz and Levan and the purchase at the tax
sale were severally void; Messrs. George W. Biddle and J. P.
Brock, on the other side, supporting their case under those
titles. The ground, however, upon which this court rests the

BROBST

v. B.R0K.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the mortgagors.

case, avoiding, as it does, any decision on those points, report
of this argument would be useless. On the other point, the
title derived under the mortgage, the ground taken was thus:
For the plaintiffs:
I. The defendant sets up title through a purchase under a
statutory foreclosure of a mortgage. The proceeding under
the Penisylvania act is one in rem and strictissimijuris. For
every reason, therefore, the party setting up the foreclosure
must show a compliance with the statute. Now, here the
writ was issued against the mortgagor. But he, confesse'dly,
was dead at the time, and of course was not served. His
"heirs, executors, and administrators," the parties mentioned in the act, are nowhere referred to in writ, service,
judgment, or other part of the record. These are not irregularities but fatal defects.
Is the matter helped by the service upon Rodeberger,
"terre tenant ?" The act does not speak of terre tenants, nor
does it authorize any such service; though by the Pennsylvania practice, besides service upon the mortgagor, notice is
sometimes given to the terre tenant. But service upon Rodeberger amounted to nothing; because1. He was not tenant of anything, but of one tract, and
that tract was not the one sued for, but a tract at best adjoining it. It is impossible to consider the possession of
a person thus putting himself down on one tract, surveyed
specifically, and patented by a patent defining its dimensions, as working a possession of twenty-four other tracts.
He occupied but a spot even on the tract where he was. It
is difficult to regard such possession as extending even to its
boundaries. The case of Ellicott v. Pearl,in this court,* sustains our views.
2. He was not tcrre'tenantof even the spot where he was.
A terre tenant is the holder of the title to the ground; and
the reason why notice is given (when it is given) to him, is
in order that if he has any title, other than that derived
10 Peters, 412.

Dec. 1870.]

B

ROBST

v. BiROCx.

Argument for the purchasers.

through the mortgagor, he may come in and set it up in
defence to the scire facias, when the mortgagee is about to
take possession as owner under his mortgage.
Everything was void, therefore, in form, without the least
alleviation in substance.
IL After such a lapse of time as exists here, the debt of
Brobst must be presumed to. be paid. And, if all were regular in form,-instead of being fatally defective, the defendants
stand in the position of parties claiming under a mortgage
actually satisfied.
Contra,for the defendants:
The judgment on the mortgage was but erroneous, not
void. The proceeding was not upon an original cause of
actibn, but upon that which was the equivalent of a record
of the court, namely, a mortgage acknowledged and recorded
and already a lien on the defendant's property. The judgment was not that the plaintiff should recover a sum of
money, &c., from the defendant, as in ordinaay cases, but in
the language of the act of 1705,. that the defendant, the
mortgagor, &c., should show, if he could, wherefore the said
mortgaged premises ought not be seized and taken in execution for the said mortgage debt. The writ of scire facias
was therefore substantially mesne process, and required no
personal service; for, by the well-known practice, the sheriff
was only bound to make reasonable efforts to find out the
mortgagor (he not being entitled of right to personal notice),
and these reasonable efforts being made, he was considered
to have had notice of the iitended taking in execution of
the mortgaged premises. It is only under this theory that
two returns of nihil habet are regarded as the equivalent of
the return of service. In such a proceeding, therefore, the
personal knowledge of the defendant of the writ was not
necessary, and its absence did not vitiate the proceeding.
It has been decided in Allison v. Rankin* that one return of
nihil was enough to prevent the judgment being void or im7th Sergeant & Rawle, 269, and see Feger v. Keefer, 6 Watts, 297.

BROBST v. BROCK.

[Sup. Ct.

A.rgument for the purchasers.

peachable collaterally; but there is no difference in reality
between a return, that the defendant cannot be found, and
an omission to state this fact in the return by the sheriff.
In Warder v. Tainter,* the court say:

"But is it necessary that the court should have jurisdiction
of the person in a proceeding by scire facias upon a mortgage?
If it be, then, I apprehend that many judgments and sales of
mortgaged land, made under them, that have hitherto been considered valid, are void."
We have in this case, as in Allison v. Rankin, a judgment in.
a court of record having jurisdiction of the subject-matter, in
full existence When the lerari issued. We have also the additional fact apparent, that before this judgment was entered,
the sheriff had gone upon the land to look for the mortgagor,
for the purpose of serving the writ upon him. This is plain,
from the return of service upon the only persoi then in
possessiouf of this undivided portion of twenty-five tracts.
No partition had then been made, and, of course, Michael
or John Brobst's interest was, as to his undivided fourth,
commensurate with the extent of all the tracts. The judgment was, therefore, valid to sustain a sale made under it.
But suppose, for the sake of argument, that the judgment
in question did not authorize the issuing of a writ of levari
upon it, what then is the case? We have a mortgagee
solemnly asserting, by the process of the law, that the mortgage debt was unpaid, and that lie was entitled to take the
mortgaged lands in execution. We have a writ of execution
issued upon a judgment containing this assertion; also a
sheriff's sale, and a deed under it, carrying into consummation this assertion, so far as the mortgagee is concerlned. In
the face of this assertion, published to the whole world in
the form of a judicial proceeding we find no counter assertion by the mortgagor for nearly forty years. No attempt
is made by him, or his heirs, or by his alienee, in all this
period, either to review the proceeding or to impeach it in
4 Watts, 277.

Dec. 1870.]

:BRoBsT V. :BROCK.
Argument for the purchasers.

any way, or to enter upon the mortgaged land, or to pay the
taxes upon it, or to 'exercise any act of dominion or ownership over it. The sheriff's vendee was the mortgagee claiming to be in possession under a foreclosure of a mortgage.
He stood ready, in all this time, to contest the right of the
mortgagor, or those claiming under him to redeem. At
the end of twenty years, the right of a mortgagor, to redeem, or against a mortgagee claiming to he in possession,,
is barred. Their right, therefore, to redeem, now is gone.
. In Slicer v. Bank of Pitsburq,* on a question of the right
of mortgagors to redeem land, which, by improvements and
the general increase of the value of real estate, had become
of great value, 'the court dwell with emphasis upon this
state of things. * They say:
"Thirty years have elapsed since it was sold, under the.appearanee, at least, of judicial authority."
And cases are cited to
turbed possession, without
the mortgage, or treating
period, is a bar to a bill to

show that twenty years' undisany admission of holding under
it as a mortgage, during that
redeem.

Repl'y: The case and argument of 'the other side assume
that John Brobst, finding himself insolvent, left the State
years ago, and after these lands had been applied to the pay.
ment of his debts and taxes, bought by honest purchasers,
and coal veins opened, towns and railroads built, and expensive improvements erected, that he is aroused from his sleep
of years, and comes to reclaim his abandoned property. But
that is not the true case. The true case is that of an unfortunate man who, believing that his fourth part of inaccessible, untaxed, mountain land, was worthless, left his native
State to seek a home among strangers, and was overtaken
by death ; then a rush of speculators to these immense fields;
hunters of void executions and worthless papers, and the
seizure of the lands of the abseitee upon less than twenty
16 Howard, 671.

BROBST

v.,

[Sup. Ct.

BROCK.

Opinion of the court.

years' possession, to bar the true owner. If the defendants
are even now ejected; they will retire enriched by nearly
twenty years of lucrative trespass.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
-Much of the very elaborate argument addressed to us on
be'half of the plaintiff in error was directed to the consideration of questions not necessary to the decisionof this case.
Whether the judgment in the scirefaciasupon the mortgage
was absolutely void, or only irregular, we are not called
upon now to determine, for on the trial of the case in the
court below no effect was allowed to it. The learned judge
who presided at the trial did not rule that the judgment was
yalid, or that the sale made under it divested the equity.of
redemption of the mortgagor, or of John Brobst, to whom
the equity had been conveyed. It is true the defendant set
up that he had acquired title under thatsale, and, had that,
been his only defence, it would be necessary to consider
whether it was sufficient to extinguish the equity of redemption. But there were several other defences, two of which
the court below ruled sufficient to protect the defendant in
his possession.

If the ruling was correct, or if either of

these defences was perfect, it matters not what may have
been the instruction given to the jury respecting other parts
of the case. It would be idle to reverse the judgment and
send the case. back for a new trial if, it be certain that the
plaintiff cannot recover in the action. In Greenleaf's Lessee,
v. Birth,* it was stated to be "a general rulle that where
there are various bills of exceptions filed according to the
local practice, if, in the progress of the cause, the matters
of' any of those exceptions become wholly immaterial to the
merits as they are finally made out at the trial, they are no
longer assignable as error, however they may have been
ruled in the court below. There must be some injury to the
party to make the 'matter generally assignable as error."

So in Campbell's Executors v. Pratt et al.,t the court refused
* 6 Peters, 136.

-t 2 Id. 854.

Dec. 1870.]

BROBST v. BROCK.
Opinion of the court.

to reverse a decree of the Circuit Court, although an error
had been committed, as no benefit could result to the appellant from the reversal.
Without noticing, therefore, for the present at least, the
particular exceptions taken in the court below, we proceed
to inquire whether the record exhibits any insuperable obstacle to the plaintiff's recovery in this action. Both parties
claim under Michael Brobst, who, on the 27th day of September, 1816, became the owner of one undivided fonrth
part of twenty-five adjoining tracts of land, of which the
tract now in controversy wag a part. The whole body was
then, and during many years thereafter, wild, uncultivated,
and uninhabited. While thus, the owner, Michael Brobst,
on the 6th day of March, 1817, mortgaged his interest in
the entire body of lands to Samuel Wood to secure the paynent of fifteen hundred dollars, with interest, on the 1st
day of April, 1821. This mortgage, by subsequent assign.ments made in the same year, became the property of Boyer.
On the 15th of May, 1817, after the execution of the mortgage, Michael Brobst conveyed his remaining interest in the
lands to John Brobst in fee, who does not appear ever to, have
made any entry upon them, or to have claimed possession
prior to his death, which occurred in 1861. It is as an heir
anid devisee of John Brobst that the lessor of the plaintiff
claims. The defendants claim under Wood, the mortgagee,
through Boyer, the assignee of the mortgage. They also
set up several other titles, which it is not necessary now to
notice. It thus appears that what John Brobst acquired by
the deed of Michael Brobst to him was only an equity of
redemption. As between his grantor and Wood, or Wood's
assigyees, the legal title was then in the latter, and so it continued notwithstanding the conveyance of the equity of redemption to John Brobst.
It is true that a mortgage is in substance but a security
for a debt, or an obligation, to which it is collateral. As
between the mortgagor and all others than the mortgagee,
it is a lien, a securi'ty, and not an estate. But as. between
the parties to the instrument, or their privies, it is a grant
VOL. x.

34

630

BROBST v. BROOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which operates to transmit the legal title to the mortgagee,
and leaves the mortgagor only 4 right to redeem. Formerly,
if the .condition was not strictly performed, the estate of the
mortgagee, at first conditional, became absolute, and the
mortgagor's right to redeem was lost., The estate or interest, though defensible at its inceptio n became uncondi-tional on the, failurie of the mortgagor to pay the money
secured, or fulfil the condition at the time appointed for
performance.*
Courts of equity have in modern times relieved against
such forfeitures, and, in favor of a mortgagor, have extended
the time for redemption. But such courts, as fully as courts
of law, have always regarded the legal title to be in the
mortgagee until redemption, and bills to redeem are entertained upon the principle that the mortgagee holds for the
mortgagor when the debt secured by the mortgage has been
paid or tendered.. And such is the law of Pennsylvania.
There, as elsewhere, the mortgagee, after breach of the condition, may enter or maintain ejectment for the land. And
having entered he cannot be dispossessed by the mortgagor
so long as the mortgage continues in force. Applying these
principles to this case it is plain that John Brobst, having
acquired only an equity by the deed from Michael Brobst,
neither he nor his heirs can recover in ejectment against
those in possession under the mortgagee while the mortgage
remains in existence, or until there has been a redemption.
it is true that in the State courts of Pennsylvania ejectment may be maintained upon an equitable title, hut such
has never been the rule in the Federal courts. It becomes,
therefore, a material inquiry whether the legal title which
was in Wood has ever been acquired by John Brobst or his
heiis, and "also whether the d{fendants are in possession
n(ler Wood, and in virtue of the. mortgage. It has already
beel noticed that Boyer became the assignee of the nfort-"
gage in 1817. It was assigned by Wood to Dunn, and by
rowell on Mortgages, 9-10; 2 Blackstone's Commentaries, 158; LittleP
ton, 332.

Dec. 1870.]

BROBST v. BROCK.

Opinion of the court.

Dunn to Boyer. The assignments were undoubtedly sufficient to transmit the rights and estate of the mortgage'.
When the debt secured by the mortgage fell due in 1821,
no effort was made to redeem, and none has been made to
the present day. There is no evidence that any one was in
actual possession of the lands before 1821, or at any time
before the condition of the mortgage was broken. But
after that time Boyer had possession by his tenant, Roderberger, who occupied a house upon the body of lands mortgaged, certainly as early as 1825. In regard to this there is
no dispute and no contradictory evidence. It is true Roderberger was resident upon one of the twenty-five tracts which
adjoins the tract now in dispute. But, though for the purpose of acquiring title from the commonwealth several patents were taken, they described collectively but one tract.
Several patents were elequired under the law of the State
when there were, as in this case, several warrants. - The warrants were each issued foir four hundred acres, and an allowance of six per cent., and the law required the patents to
follow the surveys made on each warrant. The whole
twenty-five tracts belonged to one person. They were all
patented to George Grant on the 9th and 10th days of May,
1816, and they adjoined each other, so as to constitute one
tract or body. Grant sold them together, as a whole, to
Smith, who in turn sold al undivided fourth part of the
whole body to Michael Brobst by one deed. So Michael
Brobst mortgaged.his entire estate in the whole to Wood,
and conveyed his equity of redemption by one deed to John
Brobst. From the beginning the entire body of land was
treated as one subject of grant or mortgage, though held
under several conveyances. After Grant became the owner
nothing in the title ever separated the tracts before Boyer
took possession. Having been paid for originally by one
person, and one warrant calling for another as an adjoiner,
it is not probable the interior lines of the block were ever
run. We have not the surveys before us, but when surveys
in Pennsylvania are laid in a block (that is so as together to
constitute one tract), under warrants issued at the same time

BROBST v.

BROox.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and calling for each other, it is not required, nor is it usual,
that the surveyors run more than the exterior lines.
It is then to be presumed there was nothing upon the
ground to distinguish one part of the entire body from any
other part, and the mortgage treated it all as one hypothecation. The entry of Boyer, therefore, by his tenant, Rodeberger, upon any part of this large tract must be held to
have been an entry upon the whole, a taking possession of
the whole. There is nothing in Ellicott v. Pearl,*in conflict
with this. On the contrary it was there held, as had been
frequently held before, that one, entering under color of title
by deed-, is deemed to have taken possession coextensive
with the bounds of the deed, that is, of all the land conveyed by the deed, if it is not in any adverse possession.
Here Boyer entered under a deed. Having a right to enter
only in virtue of the mortgage of which he was assignee, it
is a legal presumption that his entry was in right of it, under
color of his title, and that he intended to assert .his claim to
the entire subject of the grant. It follows that the entry
transferred the possession of the whole body of the land
from John Brobst to Boyer, and that no matter where his
"pedis possessio" was taken, he acquired possession to, the
extent of the mortgage deed. There is no distinct evidence
how long lie continued an actual occupation by his tenants.
It is enough that Brobst never afterwards sought to regain
possession, and the presumption of law therefore is that the
possession remained in Boyer so long as his rights under the
mortgage continued. Oi the .3d of November, 1825, he
caused a scirefiacias to be issued under the statute law of the
State against the mortgagor, with notice to terre tenants, requiring them to show cause why the lands should not be
sold, and the proceeds of sale applied to the payment of the
debt. This writ was not served upon the mortgagor, or
upon John Brobst, the owner of the equity of redemption,
The sheriff's return was, " Served upon Jacob Rodeberger;
terre tenant." Nevertheless a judgment was entered on mo* 10 Peters, 412.

De..187.]

BROBST

v.

BROdK.

583

Opinion of the court.

tion. That judgment was, that the lands mortgaged be sold
to satisfy the debt. IHad the judgment been" authorized,
even though erroneously entered, a sale under it would have
passed to the purchaser both the interest of the mortgagee
in the lands and the equity of redemption then in John
Brobst.
But it is contended the judgment was void in law because
no service of the seirefacias was made upon the mortgagor,
or the actual terre tenant, John Brobst (no one but the holdr..
of the title being recognized as a terre tenant), and because
there was no return of "Nihil" in default of such service.
We shall not discuss that. Assuming that the objection is,
well taken, and so it was assumed in the court below, it is
still true that the record exhibited a formal judgment. Upon
this a writ of levari facias was issued, and all the landsAd".
scribed in the mortgage were sold under it to Charles
Frailey, on the 22d of March, 1828, to whom a sheriff's
deed was duly made. Frailey purchased at Boyer's instance,
with Boyer's money, and, of course, for Boyer. Subsequently, at Boyer's request, he conveyed the property to
John Smull, whose title the defendant, Brock, has. In regard to all this -there is no controversy. The evidence submitted by the plaintiff shows how Frailey purchased and
conveyed. Now, the worst that can be said of the sheriff's
sale under the judgment so obtained is, that it did not pass
the title to'the equity of redemption ; that it did not operate
as a foreclosure of the mortgage. But did it not, in connection with Frailey"s deed to Smull, made at Boyer's instance, and the subsequent conveyances by which Brock
became invested With the title, operate to transmit to Brock
th'e rights of the mortgagee? We think it did. It would'
be "passing strange" if Boyer, after having requested
Frail6y to buy at the sheriff's sale, and after having furnished him with the money to purchase, and directed him
to convey to Smull, could have asserted his mortgage against
Smull or Smull's grantee. Beyond-question the conveyance
by Frailey under the ciI'cumstances. was a conveyahlce in
effect by Boyer, and it passed all the right to the land which

:BROBST v.

:BRociK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Boyer had. It is not necessary to this conclusion that we
should hold the sale under the judgment cut off the equity
of redemption. We express no opinion upon that subject.
It is enough that an- irregular or a void judicial sale, made
at the instance of a mortgagee, passes to the purchaser all
the rights the mortgagee, as such, had. For this authoity
is hardly needed. We may, however, refer to Gilbert v.,
Cooley,* where it was held that though a statutory foreclosure of a mortgage be irregular, and no bar to the equity of
redemption, yet the purchaser at the sale succeeds to all the
interest of the mortgagee. In that case there was no evidence that the purchaser bought at the instance Qf the holder
of the mortgage. A fortiori, must one who has bought from
the mortgagee, or from a purchaser at such a sale for the
mortgagee, as in this instance, obtain all the rights which
the mortgagee held. To the same effect as Gilbert v. 'Cooley
is the case of Jackson v. Bowen and Neff t If, therefore, it
could be held that Boyer's possession, through his tenant,
Roderberger, did not, of course, extend over the Deborah
Grant tract (which is the tract in contest in this suit), it
would still be established that the defendants are assignees
of the mortgage in possession. The principal defendant,
Brock, consequently, is clothed with the rights of the mortgag'ee. He is protected by the legal title, even though it be
conceded that the equity of' redemption is still in existence.
From 1821 to 1861, the date of John Brobst's death, and, indeed, until 1860, when this suit was brought, no claim for
redemption was ever asserted. As a general rule, a mort.gagor, after his mortgagee has been in possession twenty
years, cannot be heard in advancing a claim to redeem. As
was said in the court belov, it is presumed he has released
his equity. A chancellor will not entertain stale claims. It
is true that in most cases where this doctrine has been
avowed the mortgagee had been in continued actual occupancy, having not merely a right, but a pedis possessionem.
But the cases are not rested upon that ground, nor is it easy
*Walker's Chancery, 494.

t 7 Cowen, 13.

Dec. 1870.]

BaOBST V. BROCK.
Opinion of the court.

to see how that can make any difference in the rule when
the mortgagor is out of possession, and knows, or is bound
to know, that a right is asserted against him. The refusal
of a court of equity to biterfcre is because of the laches of
the holder of the equitable right, and a sleep of forty years
such as there was in this case, may well raise every presumption against a claim merely equitable. All such rights are
imperfect, and hence they must be asserted with vigilance.
It was said in the argument, on behalf of the plaintiff in
error, that the lapse of more than twenty years raised a presumption that the mortgage had been paid, and that thd
mortgagee's rights had been extinguished before this suit
was brought. No such point appears to have been presented
in the court below, and hence it ought not to be mooted here.
But how any such presumption can arise against a mortgagee, or his alienee, when he has been in possession under
the mortgage, we have not been shown. Even if it could, it
was completely rebutted in this case by the evidence submitted by the plaintiff in error. It was proved, without
contradiction, that Michael Brobst, the mortgagor, became
insolvent, and died in 1820, befbre the mortgage debt became
due, never having been married, and leaving no personal
representatives, and none but collateral heirs. John Brobst,
his alienee, also became insolvent, removed to the western
part of the State, and thence to Maryland in 1827, where
he resided until his death in 1861, never having returned to
Pennsylvania, so far as it appears, and having been supposed to be dead. These facts, showii by the plaintiff, were
qu.ite enough to repel any presumption of payment arising
frtom the lapse of time. Had they been submitted to the
jury, it would have been their duty to find that the legal
presumption, if any could arise under the circumstances,
was rebutted. To this the authorities are numerous.*
Filadong v. Winter, 19 Vesey, 196; Blacket
119, note; Daggett v. Tallman, 8 Connecticut,
I Starkie, 81 ; Shields v. Pringle, 2 Bibb, 387;
Connecticut, 1; Bailey v. Jackson, 16 Johnson,
Washington Circuit Court, 323.

v. Wall, 3 Meoson & Roscoe,
176; Newman v. Newman,
Boardman v. De Forrest, 5
210; Godhawk v. Duane, 2

]B1OBST

v. BIROCK.

(Sup. (3t.

Opinion of. the court.

The defendant, Brock, then, if all his other titles are shut
out of view, is, as has been said before, in the position of
a mortgagee in possession, and the lessor of the plaintiff
has at most only an equity of redemption-an equity more
than commonly stale. From 1825, when Rodeberger was
certainly in possession under Boyer, until 1865, when this
suit was brought, no attempt was made to assert the equity
or to redeem the land. Meanwhile extensive improvements
have been made upon the property,'and it has been converted from a, wilderness to a populous settlement. It is
'hardly probable that at this late day a bill to redeem would
be entertained by any chancellor. But this we need not
now decide. It is sufficient that there has been no redemption. It has been held that ejectment will not lie at the suit
-of a mortgagor against his mortgagee in possession, after
breach Of the condition, even if the money secured by the
mortgage be paid or tendered. This was said by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in Hill v. Payson et al.,* and
solemnly decided by the same court in Parsons v. Wells et
al.,t where may be found a thorough discussion of the subject. The doctrine of that case is, that the only remedy for
a mortgagor or his assignee, after payment of the debt, if
the mortgagee, having entered for condition broken, refuses
to relinquish possession of the-mortgaged premises, is by
bill in'equity. This was shown to be in accordance with
the rules of the common law, as well as implied in the
statutes of the State, and this seems to rest upon correct
principles. If it were not so, a mortgagor might remain
quiet until his mortgagee in possession (the property being
unimproved, as in this case) had made improvements necessary for obtaining any income therefrom. He might then
tender the debt and interest, and recover the possession
without making any compensation for the improvements.
The mortgagee in stich a case would have no remedy foi
his disbursements. But if the mortgagor must file a bill to
redeem, asking for equity, he may be compelled to do equity.
-

*8

Massachusetts, 559.

f" 17 1 d. 419.

Dec. 1870.]

BETHELL V.

DEMARET.

Syllabus.

Hence, there is justice and fitness in.holding that the legal
title remains in the mortgagee until redemption, though the
debt has been paid. It is observable that the statute of 7
Geo. II, ch. 20, enacted that a mortgagee shall not maintain ejectment, after payment or tender by the mortgagor of
principal, interest, and costs. There could have been no
necessity for such an enactment if the legal title had not remained idi the mortgagee. The point has never been decided
by this court, but in Gray v. Jenks,* Judge Story intimated
at least that such was his opinion, though the case-did not
call for such a decision. It is true a different rule is said to
prevail in New York from that held in Massachusetts, but
it is not the rule of the common law, nor can it be so promotive of justice.
This is all that need be said of the case. Were it conceded that the Circuit Court was in error in instructing the
jury that the sale under the Kutz and Levan judgment
passed whatever title John Brobst had (which we do not
assert), or that the rulings respecting the partition and the
tax title were erroneous, it would not avail the plaintiff in
error, because, for the reasons mentioned, there can be-no
recovery in this action.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BETIIELL

v.

DEMARET.

2. The authority conferred by a State on its Supreme Court to hear and determine cases, is not the kind of authority referred to in the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, which gives this court a right to review the
decisions of the highest State court, where is drawn in question the

validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, &c., . • and the
decision is in favor of such validity.
2. The decision of a State court which simply held that promissory notes,
given for the loan of "Confederate currency," together with a mortgage
to secure' the notes, were nullities, on the ground that the considera• 3 Mason, 620.

