:Dee. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HODSON.
Statement of the case.

JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to award a

VENIRE DE NOVO.

BRADLEY and STRONG, JJ., dissented.

UNITED STATES V. HODSON.
1. Revenue statutes being remedial in their character are to be construed
liberally to carry out the purposes of their enactment; and the rule of
construction applicable to statutes generally, that what is implied in
them is as much a part of the enactment as what is expressed, holds in
regard to them. This principle of construction applied to the 53d and
57th sections of the Internal Revenue Act of June 80, 1864.
2. Where a statute directs a bond to the government to be given by persons
exercising certain employments, and to be conditioned for the performance of several particular acts which it specifically states, and the agent
of the government takes a bond conditioned, not in the .specific way
that the statute directed, but for the parties' compliance with "al the
provisions" of the act, "and such other acts as are now or as may hereafter be in this behalf enacted," the bond, if it have been voluntarily
given, and is not contrary to law or public policy, is valid-as against a
party who has enjoyed benefits under it. And this, although the statute which required the bond to be conditioned in a particular way,
contain numerous other provisions, which it makes the duty of persons exercising employments under it, to comply with, but for which it
does not contemplate the giving of any bond.
3. On such a bond, suit in the present case was sustained for breaches which
the court adjudged to be within the conditions that the statute enacted
that the bond shquld contain;,the opinion of the court, however, asserting the validity of the bond on grounds more broad than it declared
necessary to the judgment; that is to say, more broad than to the extent
of the breaches assigned.
4. A bond which a statute says that a party whom it requires to be licensed
as a distiller, "shall" give before his license is issued, and which makes
it a penal offence for him to exercise the business of a distiller without
taking out such license, is a voluntary bond.
IN error to the Circuit Court of the District of Wisconsin,
the case being thus:
The Internal Revenue Act of June 30, 1864,* makes it
18 Stat. at Large, 242.

UNITED STATES V. HODSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

obligatory on persons meaning to be distillers to take out a
license, and makes the business of distilling without a license
an offence punishable by fine and imprisonment. And the
53d section of' the statute enacts
"That any person required by law to be licensed as a distiller
in addition to what is required by other provisions of law,
make an application therefor to the assessor of the district, and
before the same is issued, the person so applying shall give bond
to the United States in such suni as shall be required by the
collector, with one or more sureties to be approved by said collector, 'conditioned'SHALL,

in effect"(1.) That if he shall use any additional still he.will report
the fact to the assessor.
"(2.) That he will from day to day enter in a book to be kept
for that purpose the number of gallons that may be distilled,
and the quantity of grain he may use; and that the book shall
be open at all times to the inspection of the assessor.
"(3.) That he will render to the assessor, on certain days of
each month, an exact account in writing of the number of galIons distilled, of the number placed in warehouse, and of the
number sold or removed for consumption and sale, and also of
the quantities of grain used fbr the fractional part of a month
next preceding the report, and the proof thereof, which report
is to be verified by affidavit.
"(4.) That he will not sell, or permit to be removed for consumption and sale, any spirits distilled under his license until
they have been inspected, gauged, proved, and entered upon his
books, as aforesaid.
"(5.) That he will, at the time of rendering his account to
the collector, pay the duty imposed by law upon such spirits."
"And the said bond," the act proceeds, "may be renewed
or changed from time to time in regard to the amount and sureties thereof, according to the discretion of the collector."
The statute, which is entitled "An Act to Provide Ways
and Means for the Support of the Government and for
other Purposes," is a statute of 182 sections, many very long,
and contains a great variety of provisions on a great variety

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. IHODSON.

397

Statement of the case.

of subjects; some being matters enjoined, and some matters
forbidden; some enforced by penalties, fine, and imprisonment; and some not so made operative. The statute, however, obviously not contemplating that the bond shall be
conditioned for the performance of any duties but those for
which it says that it shall be.
In section 57th, separated both as to place and by intervening topics from that one (the 53d), which sets out in what
the bond of the distiller is to be conditioned, it is enacted
"That... every person who shall use any still, boiler, or other
vessel as aforesaid, . . . shall from day to day make true and exact
entry, in a book to be kept for that purpose, the number of gallons of
spirits distilled, and also the number of gallons placed in warehouse,
and also the number sold and removed for consumption and sale, and
the proof thereof."
But it is not enacted that the distiller's doing this shall be
incorporated among the conditions of the bond which the
53d section declares that he shall give.
With this statute in force, the United States took from
one William Hodson, a distiller, to whom license had been
granted, a bond precedent to the grant of license. The bond
was not conditioned in the way that the already quoted 53d
section prescribes, nor conditioned for the doing of specific
things at all. The language of the condition was thus:
"That whereas the said William Hodson has made application to the collector of internal revenue for the second collection
district of the State of Wisconsin for a license as a distiller at
Turtleville. Now, therefore, if the said William Hodson shall
truly and faithfully confbrm to all the provisions of an act entitled
' An act to provide internal revenue,' approved June 30, 1864,
AND such other acts as are now or may hereafter be in this behalf
enacted, then the above obligation to be void and of no effect,
otherwise it shall abide and remain in full force and virtue."

The United States sued for the penalty of the bond, and
assigned various breaches, and among them this as part of

UNITED

STATES V. HODSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States,

a first one, "that the defendant Hudson did manufacture a
large quantity of distilled spirits, to wit, 100,000 gallons, and
did not from day to day make a true entry in a book kept for that
purpose of the number of gallons by him distilled, and also of the
number of gallons by him placed in warehouse, and of the number
of gallons by him sold and removed for consumption and sale, and
the proof thereof."
Several other breaches were assigned, which were not
denied to be breaches of Acts for the performance of which
the statute requires the bond to be conditioned.
The defendants traversed each of the breachet, inclh)cing
of course the part of the first above given one.
Upon the trial the United States offered in evidence the
bond and proof of the several breaches. The defendants
objected to the evidence on the ground that the conditions
were not required by, and were not in conformity with, the
statutes of the United States. The court sustained the objection. And the correctness of this ruling was the matter
now here for review.
Mr. Bristow, Solicitor-General,and Mr. C. H. JIill, Assistant
Attorney- General, for the United States:
1. It nowhere appears that the bond in question was exacted or extorted by the collector in the particular form in
which it was given. Accordingly, the rule that a bond taken
by a public officer colore officii, who has illegally exerted his
authority, and thereby compelled the obligor to enter into
an obligation not required by law is void, has no application
here.
The condition of the bond embraces two separate and
distinct matters, which make it divisible into two parts.
The latter part, we admit, does not come within the requirements of the act directing the bond to be taken. Yet,
even as a statutory bond, it is not to be regarded as ineffectual on that account. For if a bond taken under a
statute contain, in addition to the condition prescribed by
the statute, a condition not required by it, such condition
may be void; but unless the statute provides that the

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HODSON.
Argument for the United States.

bond shall be void if it contain any other condition than
that required, the bond will be valid and binding for the
performance of the legitimate condition.* So where part
of the condition of a bond taken under a statute is prescribed
by the statute, and part is not, if the condition be divisible,
a recovery may be had for breach of the former.t The
several parts of such'a condition are as much independent
of and unaffected by each other as if the obligors had become bound thereto severally by separate instruments.t
2. That part of the condition which requires the principal
obligor to "truly and faithfully conform to alt the provisions" of the act of 1864, ex vi termini includes the various
duties enumerated in the section describing the particulars
in which the bond shall be conditioned; and the instrument,
being thus in substantial though not in literal compliance
with the statute, is good as a statutory bond. Now in such
bonds, where there is a substantial compliance with the law
the want of a rigid conformity with its letter is not a fatal
objection to the bond.ยง And when the substance of a bond
is prescribed by statute, if the bond be so drawn as to in
clude all the obligations imposed by the statute, and to allow
every defence given by law, it will be valid, though variant
from the form prescribed.1I
It is true, the phraseology ofthe condition of this bond,
viz., to " conform to all the provisions" of the act, may, in
its generality, include more than the statute required to be
inserted 'in the condition. But the bond being given with
reference to the statute, must be construed by the statute,
so that the unnecessarily comprehensive language of the
* Anderson v. Foster, 2 Bailey, 600; Walker v. Chapman, 22 Alabama,
116; United States v. Brown, Gilpin, 155.
f The Ordinary v. Executors of Smith, 2 Green, 479; United States v.
Bradley, 10 Peters, 343.
$ Harrison v. Seymour, I Law Rep., C. P. 518.
Central Bank v. Kendrick, Dudley, 66; Gardener v. Woodyear, 1 Ohio,
170; Yale v. Flanders, 4 Wisconsin, 96; Nunn v. Goodlett, 6 English, 89.
I Rhodes v. Vaughan, 2 Hawks, 167; Cobb v. Commonwealth, 8 Monroe, 391.
Baker v. Morrison, 4 Louisiana Annual, 373.

400

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES V. HloDsON.
Argument for the United States.

condition will be restrained in its operation to what may be
lawfully included therein. Accordingly, no breaches are
properly assignable thereunder for anything not within the
requirements of the statute.*
The case of Ohio v. Findley,t which arose under a law of
that State, passed in 1831, prescribing the duties of county
treasurers, is in point. One sectiodi of that act required
"that each county treasurer, previous to entering on the
duties of his office, shall give bond . . . conditioned for
the paying over, according to law, all moneys which shall
come into his hands for State, county, township, or other
purposes."
Subsequent sections prescribed various other
duties to be performed by the county treasurer. The court
held that a bond given by a county treasurer under that act
conditioned that he should "faithfully and impartially discharge all the duties of his said office agreeably to law," is a
good statutory bond for so much as is prescribed by the statute
and comprehended in the condition, even though it may be void
for the residue.
But if the bond is not good as a statutory bond, yet having
been voluntarily given, and being neither prohibited by the
statute nor against the policy of the law, it is valid as a common law obligation.
Story, J., giving an opinion of the court, fully admits, and
indeed asserts this doctrine in United States v. Tingey.1
In Bank of Brighton v. Smith,ยง it is said by Bigelow, C. J.:
"'The rule of law is well settled, that a bond given for the
faithful performance of official duties, or in pursuance of some
requirement of law, may be valid and binding on the parties,
although not made with the formalities or executed in the mode
provided by the statute under which it purports to have been
given. This rule rests on the principle that, although the instrument may not conform to the special provisions of a statute or

regulation in compliance with which the parties executed it,
nevertheless, it is a -contract voluntarily entered into upon a
Hall v. Cushing, 9 Pickering, 895.

" 10 Ohio, 61.

6 Pet rs, 116; and see United States v. Linn, 15 Id. 290.
ยง 6 Allen, 415.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V.

IIODSON.

Argument for the distiller.

sufficient consideration, for a purpose not contrary to law, and
therefore it is obligatory on the parties to it in like manner as
any other contract or agreement is held valid at common law."
In support of this doctrine additional authorities may be
cited :*

The 57th section of the act does in fact require no more
than what the united conditions of the bond, as prescribed
by the 53d section, do. He is to keep "books" as to all the
matters mentioned in the conditions, so that assigning
breaches in the language of the 57th section is, in truth,
.assigning them in what would have been the language of
the condition of the bond in this case if the condition had
been in literal compliance with the words of the statute.
Mr. IV. IT. Carpenter, contra:
The bond sued on was void. By the act under which it
was given, no person could carry on the business of a distiller
without giving a bond conditioned in a mode particularly
prescribed. And it is plain that in regard to the condition
prescribed, Congress meant that the collector should not
make a change. Why otherwise is the condition minutely
and with such pains prescribed ? and why in regard to
amount and sureties is the collector authorized to make a
change ? The act expressly refers to other duties "required
by other provisions of law," which are "'iin addition " to
those which the bond is meant to enforce. But these former
it enforces not by bond with sureties, but by penal or other
sanctions. Such is the system w,,hich Congress, in its wisdom, saw fit to adopt. The collector here, has, therefore,
taken a bond which no law required, one which supersedes
the system of Congress and adopts a new system of the collector's own instead. The bond is thus one which '' under
color and pretence of an act of Congress, and under color of
Morse v. Hodsdon, 5 Massachusetts, 314; Burroughs v. Lowder, 8 Id.
378; Sweetser v. Hay, 2 Gray, 49; Dunbar v. Dunn, 10 Price, 54; Justices
v. Smith, 2 J. J. Marshall, 473; Hoy v. Rogers, 4 Monroe, 225; Lane v.
Kasey, 1 Metcalfe (Ry.),, 410; Gathwright v. Callaway County, 10 Missouri, 463; Horn v. Whittier, 6 New Hampshire, 88.
VOL. X.

26

UNITED STATES v. HODSON.

[Slip. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

office was required and extorted against the form and effect
of a statute." Such a bond is adjudged in United States v.
Tingey, cited on the other side, to show it good, to be void;
'the nullity of the bond being in truth, the only point adjudged in the case, and the various remarks relied on by the
other side, about the difference between such a bond and voluntary bonds being mere dicta of Story, J., extra-judicial,
and irrelative, and.from the purpose of the judgment which
declared the bond bad.
That a bond was required, or exacted, or extorted, is certain. The distiller had to give it or give up -his vocation.
He "shall " give it, is the language of the act of Congress,
before he gets his license. Certainly no distiller gives voluntarily such a bond as distillers are required by the statute
to give, or gives it otherwise than because he is required by
the law, which commands obedience from all, to give it, and
because if he don't give it he can get no license, and will be
fined and irnprisoned for exercising his business. Is a bond
thus given, voluntarily given-given by choice ? Certainly
not. If it were, a statute requiring it-declaring that the
party SHALL give it, and visiting him with a loss of his license
if he does not-would be useless. A bond may be exacted
or extorted by influences, having nothing in them-of duress
of person. When the law speaks it compels, it forces. The
collector presents his bond ready drawn. Re is particularly
bound to know what sort of security the government requires. The distiller can rarely know. Independently of
which the collector is "in office," and " obeyed," of course.
The bond is presented for the distiller's signature, and he
must sign or forfeit his 'ight to exercise his calling. le
acts at his peril if he misjudges as to the right of the government to have the exact bond put before him for his signature. And he does not presume to judge at all, but signs
it as of course.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Wisconsin. The action was debt

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED

STATES V. HODSON.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

upon a penal bond in the sum of five thousand dollars. The
condition was not s~t out and no breaches were alleged in
the declaration. The declaration was framed to recover the
penalty. The defendants craved oyer of the condition, and
it was given. It is set out in the record, and is substantially
as follows:
That William Iodson had applied to the collector of in.
ternal revenue for the second collection district in the State
of Wisconsin for license as a distiller at TurIeville, in that
State, and that if the said William Hlodson should faithfully
conform to all the provisions of an " act to provide internal
revenue to support the government, and to pay interest on
the public debt, and for other purposes," approved June
30th, 1864, and such other acts as now are or may be hereafter in this behalf enacted, then the above obligation to be
void, otherwise to remain in full force.
The defendants pleaded performance. The plaintiffs thereupon replied and assigned the following breaches in their
replication:
(1.) That the defendant, Hodson, did manufacture a large
quantity of distilled spirits, to wit: 100,000 gallons, and did
neglect to make a true entry and report of the same, and did
not from day to day make a true entry in a book kept for
that purpose of the number of gallons by him distilled, and
also of the number of gallons by him placed in warehouse,
and of the number of gallons by him sold and removed for
consumption and sale, and the proof thereof, and that he
did not cause the same to be done.
(2.) That the said Hodson did not conform to the provisions of said act and acts in this, to wit: that he did sell and
remove from his distillery, for consumption and sale, a large
quantity of distilled spirits manufhctured by him, to wit:
50,000 gallons, and did neglect to render to the assessor or
assistant assessor of the said second collection district, &c.,
a true account in duplicate, taken from his books, of the
number of gallons of spirits distilled by him, and also of the
number of gallofis sold and removed for consumption and

sale.

404

UNITED STATES V. HODSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

(3.) That the said Iodson did not conform to the laws
aforesaid in this, to wit: that he did remove from his distillery a large quantity, to wit: 100,000 gallons of spirits,
then and there by him manufactured, upon which duties
were by law imposed, and which duties he neglected to
pay.
(4.) And that the said Hodson did not conform to the provisions of the laws aforesaid in this, to wit: that he did
manufacture a large quantity of spirits, to wit: 100,000 gallons, and did remove the same from his distillery for consumption and sale, before the same were inspected, gauged,
and branded by an inspector appointed to perform such
duties, and did neglect to cause the spirits so removed to be
inspected, gauged, and branded before the same were removed, as aforesaid.
The defendants filed a rejoinder, specially traversing each
of the breaches assigned, and concluded to the country.
.This put the cause at issue. Upon the trial the United
States offered in evidence the bond and proof of the several
breaches. The defendants objected to the evidence upon
the ground that the conditions were not required by, and
were not in conformity with, the statutes of the United
States. The court sustained the objection and excluded all
the evidence. A verdict and judgment were thereupon
rendered for the defendants. The United States excepted,
and have brought this ruling here for review.
The only inquir'y presented for our consideration is the
validity of the bond upon which the suit was founded.
It would have been more:regular to raise the question by
a demurrer after oyer, or by a motion in arrest of judgment.
But if the bond were void it was competent'for the defendants to raise the objection at any stage of the trial. The
court was not bound to pr'oceed further, when it became
clear that, whatever the verdict, the plaintiff could not recover. To proceed with the trial under such circumstances
would have been idly to waste the time of the court and
trifle with the forms of justice.
The bond was taken under the 53d section of the act of

Dec. 1870.1

e

NITED STATES V. HODSON.
Opinion of the court.

June 80th, 1864, ch. 173.* That section required a bond to
be given by every licensed distiller, and prescribes its conditions. They are substantially:
That if the distiller shall use any additional still he will
report the fact to the assessor.
That he will from day to day enter in a book to be kept
for that purpose, the number of gallons that may be distilled, and the quantity of grain he may use; and that the
book shall be open at all times to the insuection of the
assessor.
That he will render to the assessor, on the 1st, 11th, and
21st days of each month an account in writing of the number
of gallons distilled, of the number placed in warehouse, and
of the number sold or removed for consumption and sale,
and also of the quantity of grain used for the fractional part
of a month next preceding the report, and the proof thereof,
which report is to be verified by affidavit.
That he will not sell, or permit to be removed for consumption and sale, any spirits distilled under his license
uhtil they have been inspected, gauged, proved,'and entered
uponhis books, as aforesaid.
And that he will at the time of rendering his account
to the collector pay the duty imposed by law upon such
spirits.
It is not denied that all the breaches are within the requirements of the statute touching the bond, except that
part of the first one, which is, that the licensee did not, from
day to day, "make true and exact entry thereof in a book
to be kept for that purpose, of the number of gallons by
him placed in warehouse, and the number of gallons by him
sold and removed for consumption and sale, and the proof
thereof." It is said the statute required him to do this, but
did not require him to give a bond that he would do so.
The statute required the bond to be conditioned that he
would, from day to day, enter in a book to be kept for that
* 13 Stat. at Large, 242..

UNITED STATES

v.

HODSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the ,ourt.

purpose, the number of gallons distilled; that the book
should be open to the inspection of the assessor; that. he
would. render, at the time specified, "an exact ace6unt in
writing" of the number of gallons sold, or removed for sale
and consumption, and the proof thereof; and that he would
not sell, or permit to be sold or removed, for consumption
or sale, any spirits distilled by him until the quantity had
been "duly entered upon his books, as aforesaid." Considering these provisions together, we think the implication
clear, that they require such an account to be kept as the
breach alleges was not kept, and that if the conditions, as
prescribed, had beet! set out at length in the bond, such
would have been their legal effect. The first part of the
57th section is silent as to the bond, but is explicit as to the
account, and strongly supports the conclusion at which we
have arrived. The question must be considered in the light
of the entire context bearing upon the subject. What is
implied in a statute is as much a part of it as what is expressed.*
Revenue statutes are not to be regarded as penal, and
therefore to be construed strictly. They are remedial in
their character, and to be construed liberally, to carry out
the purposes of their enactment.t
We bold this, like all the other breaches, to be within the
conditions which the statute enacts the bond shall contain.
In one view of the case, this fact is important; in another
and perhaps more important one, it is no wise material.
Both will be presently considered.
The record is silent as to any coercion or duress. The
bod is, therefore, to be considered a voluntary one.1 A
bond in this form is not prohibited by the statute, nor is it
contrary to public policy. It was founded upon a sufficient
consid eration, and was intended to subserve a lawful purpose.
In The United States v. TVpgey,ยง the suit was upon the bond
* United States v. B'abbit, 1 tlack, 55.

t Cliquot's Champagne, 8 Wallace, 145.
$ United States v.Bradley, 10 Peters, 345.

5 Peters, 127.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HoDsoN.
Opinion of the court.

of a purser in the navy., The statute declared "that every
purser, before entering on the duties of his office, shall give
bond, with two or more sufficient sureties, in the penalty of
two thousand dollars, conditioned faithfully to perform all
the duties of purser in the navy of the United States."*
The court said "it is obvious that the condition of the present bond is, not in the terms prescribed by the act, . . .
and it is not limited to the duties or disbursements of Deblois
as purser, but creates a liability for all moneys received by
him, and for all public property, committed to his care,
whether officially as purser or otherwise." The bond was
held to be valid. The decision was put upon the grounds
that the government had the capacity to make the contract,
that the United States were a body politic, and that. as incident to its general right of sovereignty, it was competent to
enter into any contract not prohibited by law, and found to
be expedient in the just exercise of the powers confided to
it by the Constitution. Dugan v. The United Slatest was
referred to as sustaining this proposition. It was remarked
that a different principle would involve a denial to the General and the State governments of the ordinary rights of
sovereignty. In conclusion, it was said, in relation to the
bond there in question, "The United States have a political
capacity to take it. We see no objection to its validity in a
legal or moral view." Tingey, who was a surety, pleaded,
among other things, in the court belor, that the bond " was
under color and pretence of said act of Congress, aid, under
color of office, required and extorted from the said Deblois,
and from the defendant, as one of his sureties, against the
form and effect of the said statutes, by the then secretary
of the navy." The United States demurred. The court
overruled the demurrer, and gave judgment for the defendant. The United States prosecuted a writ of error. This
court held the plea sufficient and affirmed the judgment.
In the case of The United States v. Bradley,j the views of
Act of March 80, 1812, 2 Stat. at Large, 699, ch. 47.

t

8 Wheaton, 172.

$ 10 Peters, 343.

408

UNITED STATES

v. HODSON.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the court expressed in The United States v. Ti gey were restated and, upon the fullest consideration, were reaffirmed.
The United States v. Linn,* was an action against a receiver
of public moneys and his sureties. The statute in that case
required that the receiver Should "give bond, with approved
security, in the sum of ten thousand dollars, for the faithful
discharge of his trust." The instrument given was without
seal, and was, therefore, not the security required by the
statute. The counsel for the defendants insisted that the
instrument was void for the reasons, among others, that it
was not the form of security required by the statute; that
the prescribing of one security was an implied prohibition
of all others, and that if the instrument in question could
be sustained, the statute might in all cases be disregarded
and a mortgage of realty or personalty or any other imaginable security might be substituted for that which the statute
required. The court responded: "If this is a contract, entered into by competent parties and for a lawful purpose,
not prohibited by law, and is founded upon a sufficient consideration, it is a valid contract at common law." " A
mortgage, or any other approved security voluntarily given,
would no doubt be valid."
These cases are conclusive of the question before us.
Their authority has not been shake by any later adjudication; we think they rest upon the soundest principles,
and are in accordance with a wise and salutary policy. We
feel no disposition to re-examine the propositions they affirm.
A narrower view of the instrument in question may be
taken, which will also maintain its validity to the extent of
the breaches assigned "in the declaration. It is a settled
principle of law that where- a bond contains conditions,
some of which are legal and others illegal, and they are
severable and separable, the latter may be disregarded and
the former enforced. Applying this principle to the case
before us, all which this in.strumeiit contains with reference
15 Peters, 290.

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED STATES V. HloDsoN.
Opinion of the court.

to statutes other than the act of 1864, under which it was
taken, may be rejected, and the generality of the reference
to that act may be so limited as to include only what iGcovered by the conditions prescribed by the statute, as if those
conditions were incorporated and set but in the bond in hcee
verba. An authority exactly in point, for this construction,
is found in the well-considered case of Ohio v. Findley and
others.* The prinoipal in the bond in that case was a county
treasurer. The bond was conditioned that be should perfoirm his official duties according to law. The statute, as in
the case before us, was specific in its requirements as to
what the bond should contain, and the condition, it was
admitted, largely exceeded them. The court said: "That
part which is legal is marked out in the sfatute.book itself,
and is therefore as completely severable from the rest as if
the two parts were separated in the condition of the bond."
But we prefer to place our judgment upon the broader
ground marked out by the adjudications of this court, to
which we have referred. Every one is presumed to know
the law. Ignorance standing alone can never be the basis
of a legal right. If a bond is liable to the objection taken
in this case and the parties are dissatisfied, the objection
should be made when the bond is presented for execution.
If executed under constraint, the constraint will destroy it.
But where it is voluntarily entered into and the principal
enjoys the benefits which it is intended to secur3 and a
breach occurs, it is then too late to raise the question of its
validity. The parties are estopped from availing themselves
of such a defence. In such cases there is neither injustice
nor hardship in holding that the contract as made is the
measure of the rights of the government and of the liability
of the obligors.
Judgment REVERSED, and the cause remanded with an
order to issu- a
VENIRE
* 10 Ohio Rep. 51.

DE NOVO.

