BOYLAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The court made the rule absolute, and rendered judgment
against the surety for the whole amount of th-e claim of the
plaintiff.
There is no finding of the facts in this case, and no reason
for taking it out of the general rule on the subject, which,
under like circumstances, as is well settled, is to
AFFIRM Tu1E JUDGMENT.

BOYLAN V. UNITED STATES.
1. Under the 96th section of the Excise Act of June 30th, 1864, exempting
from a tax laid on sundry articles oP dress by section 95, clothes manufacturod of materials on which a duty had been paid, unless ,the inoroased value" exceedsfiveper cent. ad valorem, such "increased value "1
is to be ascertained by a comparison between the market value of the
materials at the time the tax on them was paid, with the market value
of the manufactured goods at the time of the assessment of the tax upon
them.
2. When the sale and delivery is to the government which imposes and collects the tax, the market value of the goods may be well enough determined by the price which the government agrees to pay, and the contractor agrees to receive.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of New York, the case being
this:
By the 95th section of the act of June 30th, 1864, a tax
of five per cent. was imposed on ready-made clothing, and
sundry other articles of dress.* But the 96th section of the
same act exempted from the tax goods manufactured of materials on which duties had ,been paid, unless the increased
value of such goods exceededfive per cent. ad valorern.t
These provisions of the statute being in force, Boylan, a
manufacturer of clothing, on the 10th of May, 1864, entered
into a contract with the United States to manufacture and
deliver to it at times specified, a certain amount of army
clothing, for which he was to receive a price fixed. He did
*13

Star. at Large, 269.

t lb. 212.

Dec. 1869.]

]BOYLAN V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the tax-payer:

manufacture and deliver the clothing during the month of
October, 1864, under his contract, and received the contract
price from the United States. These goods were manufactured of materials, the cash value of which, in open market,
was more than the price received by him for the goods.
But the cost of manufacturing the goods was more thanfive
per cent. of their value when manufactured. Boylan, in his
return of manufactures for October, 1864, under the internal
revenue laws, made return of the goods. An internal revenue tax of five per cent. ad valorem upon the price received
by Boylan for the goods having been assessed, the suit below,
'an amicable one, was brought to recover the amount of the
tax. The materials of the maiufactured goods had been
previously assessed under the internal revenue law, and the
tax on them had been duly paid :, though when paid was not
shown. Judgment having been rendered in favor of the
United States, Boylan brought the case here to reverse it;
the general question being whether the assessment was made
in accordance with the proper 'construction of the act of
Congress; or, in other words, by what rule the "increased
value," spoken of in the 96th section of the act, was to be
ascertained.
The case did not show what was the actual cost to Boylan
of the materials, nor so whether the price agreed on for the
clothes was greater than the actual cost by more thanfve per
cent. ad valorem.
Mr. Evarts,for the plaintiff in error:
At the time when these goods becam liable to duty-if
liable at all-the materials were worth more in the market
than the price received for the completed goods; the "increased value," therefore, does not exceed five per cent. ad
valorem, and they are exempt. Had Boylan sold the materials in the market, instead of manufacturing and delivering
them to the United States, he would have received more than
lie did receive. That is to say, by the process of manufacture he did not increase their value at all. But an increase

BOYLAN V.

UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Reply for the tax-payer.

of value by that process to the extent of more than five per
centurn is necessary to render the product taxable.

Mr. TV. A. Field, Assistant Attorney- General, contra:
To entitle a person, a manufacturer of clothes, to exemption from the payment of this tax, he must prove thcts that
bring him within tile provisions that grant him the exemption.
Now this case does not show,
1st. What was the market value of the clothes when manufactured, and whether this market calue was greater than the
market value of the materials by moie than five per cent. ad
valorem; nor does it show,
2d. What the actual cost to Boylan of the materials was,
so as to enable us to know whether the agreed price of the
pantaloons was greater than this actual cost by more than five
per cent. ad valorem.
The presumption, in such an omission, is that the increase
of value of the pantaloons over the value of the materials
out of which they were made was more than five per cent.
ad valorem. Admitting the whole case shown, the defendant may have made, and the presumption is that he did make
a fair and even an enormous profit upon this transaction, a
profit consisting in the advance in value of materials held
by him between the date of the contract and the delivery of
the goods. Shall he yet be allowed to obtain exemption ?
.Reply
1. The taxable value of the manufactured goods in this
case is the price obtained by actual sales; that is, the contract price.
2. The government would introduce a new element into
the computation-that of time, and hold the defendant liable
on the ground that the goods were increased in value, not
by manufhcturing them, but by the length of time during
which he held them. Assuming this to be true, it could
not render the goods taxable. If we suppose the tax itself

Dec. 1869.]

BOYLAN V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

levied on the increased value of any manufacture, no one
wvould doubt that the increase of value by the process of manufacture is that which is to be taxed. The manuftacturer
might have held the materials for ten years, or forty; or
might have obtained them by inheritance or by gift; still,
the taxable increased value is the added value by the process
of manufacture. In this case it is admitted that no value
was added by this process. What has the tax claimed to
do with any additions to their value made by other causes ?
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The general question in this case is, by what rule is the
increased value to be ascertained ?
It was insisted in argument that the true mode of ascertaining the amount of increase is to deduct from the price
of the manufactured goods sold and delivered, the market
value of the materials at the time of the delivery.
And we think it reasonable that in a case where the sale
and delivery is to the government which imposes and collects the tax, that the market value of the goods shall be
taken as determined by the price which the government
agrees to pay and the contractor agrees to receive. But it
is not so clear that the value of the materials is to be determined by their market value at the time of the delivery of
the manufactured goods. On the contrary, it seems to us
that when the legislature made the degree of increased value
after the payment of the tax on materials, the criterion by
which to determine whether the manufactured goods should
be liable to, or exempt from taxation, its intention was to
require a comparison between the market value of the materials at the time'the tax on them was paid, with the market
value of the manufactured goods at the time of the assessment of the tax upon them. The time of this assessment in
the case before us was in October, 1864, and the market
value, on that day, must, as we have just said, be taken as
determined by the contract price.
When the duties on the materials were paid is not shown,
but it is agreed that they were paid, and that the market

MAHONEY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

value of the clothing at the time of delivery to the United
States was greater than the market value of the materials
when made or sold by the manufacturers, or purchased by
the plaintiff in error, by more than five per cent. ad valorem.
We infer that the duties on the materials were paid when
or before they became the property of the plaintiff in error.
And these circumstances, as it seems to us, take the manufactured goods out of the category of exemption established
by the law.
The language of the act seems, indeed, hardly to admit of
any other interpretation. In terms stripped of superfluous
words, it provides that goods manufactured from materials
upon which duties have been paid, when the increased value
shall not exceed the amount of five per cent. ad valorem,
shall be exempt. The obvious construction of this language
is, that increased value means the value augmented since the
original payment of the duties; and that the five per cent.
is to be computed on the value of the materials when those
duties were paid.
This construction requires the affirmance of the judgment
of the Circuit Court, and it is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

MAHONEY V. UNITED STATES.
The provision of the act of Congress of May lst,.1810, fixing a salary to
the consul at Algiers and assigning to him certain duties, treating that
place as belonging to a Mohammedan power, ceased to be operative
when the country, of which it was the principal city, bAcame a province
of France. The construction of the Secretary of State to this effect, irnpiiedly sanctioned' by the act of Congress of Maroh 1st, 1855, ,to remodel the diplomatic and consular systems of the United States?" (10
Stat. at Large, 621), and expressly sanctioned by the act of August 18th,
1866, to regulate those systems. (11 Id. 52.)

from the Court of Claims, the case being this:
An act of Congress, ".fixing the compensation of public
ministers and~of consuls residing on the coast of Barbar-,
APPEAL

