Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. McCLURE.

511

Statement of the case.

that conferred these rights and privileges upon the Territory
of Iowa provided that they should be subject to be altered,
modified, or repealed by the governor and legislative assembly of the said Territory. If,therefore, anything is found
in this act of partition in conflict with these provisions, to
that extent they must be regarded as altered or modified,
which affbrds a complete answer to the ground relied upon
under the ordinance.
MOTION GRANTED.

Mr. Justice MILLER took no part in the decision, having
been counsel in the case.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MCCLURE.
1. No jurisdiction exists in this court under the 2.5th section of the Judiciary
Act, to review a decision of the highest court of the State, maintaining
the validity of a law which it has been set up "1impairs the obligation
of a contract," when the law set up as having this effect was in existence when the alleged contract was made, nd the highest State court
has only decided that there was no contract in the case.
2. A constitution of a State is in this case admitted to be a " law,'" within
the meaning of that clause of the Constitution of the United States,
which ordains that "no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts."
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Iowa; the case in its principal features being thus:

The District Court of Washington County, Iowa, on a bill
by the county to restrain the collection of taxes for the payment of certain county bonds issued to railroads in June and
July, 1858, and where the fact whether, at the tine the bonds
were issued, the then constitution of the State gave authority
to counties to issue such bonds, was one of the issues raised
by the pleadings, enjoined the collection; so apparently, in
effect, deciding that the bonds were void under the constitution of the State existing when they were issued. The

512

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MCCLURE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

creditors appealed, to the Supreme Court of the State. That
court affirmed, the judgment. The record brought here
from it showed that the creditors made the question before
that court, "that the decision of the court below violated
that clause in the Constitution of.the United States which
provides that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts; and the decision of this court was
against the right set up under such clause of the Constitution."
The creditors now brought 'their ease here as within the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, which enacts that final
judgments in the highest court of a State where is drawn in,
question the validity of a statute of, or authority exercised.
under any State on the ground of their being repugnant to
the Constitution

.

.

.

of the United States, and the de-

cision is in favor of such, their validity, may be re-examined
and. reversed or affirmed in this court.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, as appeared from its published opinion, considered that the decision of the inferior
court, which, it stated, had adjudged the bonds to be Unconstitutional, and so null and void ab initio (in other words, had
adjudged that there was no contract in the case), was not a
decision against the clause of the Constitution of the United
,States which' says ":thatato State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts;" and on this ground
affirmed it.
Mr. Grant,for the plaintff i&error, referred to cases in the
Supreme Court of Iowa to show that at the time when the
bonds were issued, the constitution of that State, now construed by its courts in the decision below. so as not to
authorize the issue by counties of railroad bonds, had been
construed so as to authorize such issues;* and argued that
the later interpretation, adverse to the validity of'the bonds,
impaired the obligations of-a contract; as this court had
decided.t
See the whole history set forth in Gelpcke v. City of Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 175.

t Ib.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MCCLURE.

618

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE. stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the'Supreme Court of the State
of Iowa. The case is brought into this court under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
Nathaniel McClure, and the other complainants who are
shch in their own r'ight, filed a bill in equity in the District
Court of Washington County, whereby they sought to enjoin the'collection of taxes, to be applied in the payment
of the interest upon certain bonds issued by that county to
the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, as set forth in
the bill.
Samuel S. Owen, the county treasurer and collector, and
S. P. Young, the county judge, were made defendants.
McClure died, and his legal representatives wee made
parties complainant in his stead. A preliminary injunction
was granted. The Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company
prayed to be made a party; was made a party accordingly;
and filed an answer, alleging, among other things, that
Thomas Durant, Betsey D. Tracey, Joseph E. Sheffield,
Clark'Durant, Thomas Dunn, and William Newton, were
bondfide holders of $132,000 of said bonds, and that, without
their being parties, no decree could be made in the cause.
The complainants amended their bill by making those persons defendants, and those defendants thereupon prayed to
have the cause removed to the District Court of the United
States for the Southern Division of Iowa. The application
was overruled. They then filed an answer, wherein they
maintained the validity of the bonds, and averred that they
and the other holders, held them bond fide, and prayed that
the county judge and:the county treasurer should be decreed
to collect the amount of taxes requisite to pay the interest
which had ac~rued. They afterwards filed a supplemental
answer, in which they set forth that, on the 15th of August,
1860, Clark Durant, for himself and the other defendants,
owners of said bonds, cominenced in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Iowa an action at law
against the County of Washington upon the bonds and cou.
VOL. X.

88

514

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. MCCLURE.:

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

pons referred to in the bill, to recover the instalments of
interest due thereon for July, 1859, January, 1860, and
July, 1860, and that the County of Washington appeared
and pleaded in bar the .same matters that are set up in the
bill, and particularly that the issuing of the bonds was unconstitutional and void, that judgment was rendered in favor
of the plaintiff, and that the said. county thereupon removed
the cause to the Supreme Court of the United States, where
it was still pending. The board of supervisors were subsequently made defendants in.this case. The District Court
of Washington County decreed a perpetual injunction as
prayed for. The case-was taken- by appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State. In that court the defendants filed two
supplemental answers. In the first it was alleged that since
the filing of their preceding answer the case of Durant v. The
County of Washington, taken to the Supreme Court of the
United States, had been dismissed from that court, and that
the judgment of the District Court of the United States for
the District of Iowa then stood in force, and was unsatisfied.
day of
The second answer set forth that on the
1867, the defendants, Clark Durant and others, by the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Distict of Iowa, upon due process of law, recovered a further
and other judgment upon interest warrants of said bonds
to the amount of $70,652.37; that in said action Clark Durant was plaintiff and the County of Washington defendant,
and that the complainants are taxpayers of that county, and
privies to said judgment. The board of supervisors also
answered in the appellate court. A stipulation was filed by
the counsel of the parties admitting the facts set forth in the
supplemental answers as to the judgments alleged to have
been recovered and the dismissal of the writ of error from
this court. The motion to remove the cause to the proper
court of the United States was renewed and overruled, as it
had been in the court below. The Supreme Court of the
State affirmed the decree of the District Court of Washington County. The record shows that the counsel for the
plaintiff in error waived in the Supreme Court of the State

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MCCLURE.

515

Opinion of the court.

all questions except the one relating to the validity of the
bonds. The opinion of the court was confined to that subject. The bonds were held to be invalid upon the ground
that they were unauthorized and were fbrbidden by the constitution of the State. The same counsel in his brief and
argument here has discussed only that subject. He has presented no other proposition for our consideration. Under
these circumstances we have not deemed it proper to extend
our examination of the case beyond this point.
The question of the validity of the bonds is not one of
Federal jurisdiction. The Constitution of the United States
declares,* that no State shall pass a law "impairing the obligation of contracts." The constitution of a State is undoubtedly a law within the meaning of this prohibition.. A State
can no more do what is thus forbidden by one than by the
other. There is the same impediment in the way of both.
But the State has passed no law upon the subject, and the
constitution of the State, which, as construed by the Supreme
Court of the State,has worked the result complained of, was
in force when the bonds were issued. The 26th section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789 specifies the questions of which
we can take cognizance in this class of cases, and expressly
excludes all others from our consideration. It is clear that
the question before us is not within the affirmative category.
If the case had been brought up from the Circuit Court
under the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, this question and
all others arising on the record, would have been open for
examination. The 25th section is more limited in its operation.
The case will be DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION, and
•emanded to the court whence it came.
Article I,

10.

