Dec.. 1870.]

THE COTTON PLANT.
Statement of the case.

aid. But as it is a company associated under the laws of a
foreign country, it comes within the scope of the Massachusetts statute, and cannot claim exemption from its operation
for the causes alleged in that behalf. It could not have been
the intent of the treaty of 1815 to prevent the States froni
imposing taxes or license laws upon either British corporations or joint-stock companies desiring to establish banking
or insurance business therein. And certainly these compa.
nies cannot be exempted from such laws on the ground that
citizens of other States have chosen to take some of their
shares.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE COTTON PLANT.
A capture made within the State of North Carolina on the Roanoke River,
130 miles from its mouth, by a naval force detached from two steamers
that had proceeded up the river, one about 80 miles and the other about
100, where they stopped in consequence of the crookedness of the stream
and apprehensions of low water, held to be a capture upon " inland
waters "' of the United States, as that phrase is used in the act of Congress of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat. at Large, 377), and therefore not to be
regarded as maritime prize.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, condemning as prize the steamer Cotton
Plat, and her cargo; the case was thus:
An act of Congress of July 2, 1864, passed during the late
rebellion, enacts that " no property seized or taken upon any
of the inland waters of the United States by the naval forces
thereof shall be regarded as maritime prize;" and directs
that all property so seized or taken shall be promptly delivered to the officers of the courts, to)be dealt with in a way
which the act prescribes.
The capture, which was the subject of this libel, took place
on the 101h day of May, 1865, in North Carolina, at the mouth
of Quankey Creek, on the Roanoke River, about half a mile
VOL. x.

37

THE COTTON PLANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the steamer.

below Halifax, and about 130 miles above Plymouth, which
lies at the mouth of the river, where the river falls into
Albemarle Sound; the river at that point being narrow and
shallow. An expedition, consisting of the United States
steamers Ioscoe and Valley City, with a picket launch, went
up the. Roanoke River. The Ioscoe proceeded to Hamilton,
which was 50 miles from the place of capture; the Valley
City went up the river to a point 32 miles from the place of
capture; both vessels stopping at the places where they did.
on account of the winding course of the stream and from
fear of getting aground. An officer and six men were placed
on the picket launch, attended by an armed crew from the
Ioscoe. The launch, with these crews, proceeded up the
river to the place of capture, and there seized the steamer
with her cargo then on board, cotton chiefly, and putting on
her some other cotton that they brought from a barn on
land, recently landed from this same steamer and put in the
barn for temporary safe keeping until reladed, sent her to
Philadelphia, where she was libelled in the District Court
and condemned, as already mentioned.
Her owners appealed to this court. There was no allegation of any breach of blockade.

Messrs. W. L. Hirst and T. .R. Eleock, for the appellants:
It is matter of public history that Lee surrendered on the
9th day of April, 1865; Johnston, on the 26th day of the
same month ; and that thus ceased all hostilities and opposition to the United States, in Virginia and North Carolina.
How, in the face of such facts, can the Cotton Plant, on the
10th of Mayfollowing all this,'have been the subject of lawful
capture as prize under any circumstances?
But situated where she was, the steamer was not a subject
for prize even if war had still been flagrant. The entire expedition by the picket I "inch was a raid rather than a lawful act of iAar. The act of July 2d, 1864, is conclusive;
declaring as it does, that no property taken, upon any of
the "inland waters" of the United States by the naval frces
shall be regarded as maritime prize, and provides, as it also

Dec. 1870.]

TnE COTTON PLANT.
Argument in favor of the captors.

does, another system for all such seizures. "Inland" means
"remote from the sea." In the case of iirs.Alexander's Cotton,*
the cotton was captured much as some of this was, on the
Red River, a few miles above the point where it enters the
Mississippi. This court declared that it could not be the subject of a libel as maritime prize, but should have been turned
over to be treated as captured and abandoned property under
the statutes of 1863 and 1864. It follows that the court below had no jurisdiction. The steamer and her cargo should
have been "promptly" handed over to the agent of the Secretary of the Treasury. Want of jurisdiction in the court
bell)w, however, does not prevent this court from assuming
jurisdiction on appeal for the purposes of reversing the decree rendered by the court below, and of vacating its unwarranted proceedings.t
111'. C. I. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General,for the United
States ; Mr.Ashton, for the captors, contra:
Although Generals Lee and Johnston had surrendered in
April, 1865, General Richard Taylor did not surrender Mobile till May 4th, six days before this capture, and General
Kirby Smith did not surrender until after it, May 23d.
The.,e are public historical facts, known to all and of which
the court takes notice. War, therefore, still existed, and this
capture, to use the words of Lord Tenterden, was "a hostile
seizure, made, if not flagranlte, yet nondum cessante bello."T
The Roanoke River, where the capture was made, was
not "inland waters" within the act of July 2d, 1864. It is
a short navigable river, flowing directly into tidal waters.
The term "inland waters" has been generally considered
as applying( to the lakes or to the immense rivers like the
Missouri, Mississippi, Ohio, &c., which have their courses
a thousand miles from the sea. To come within the act
all the waters should be " inland." But water which rhns
directly into the sea is not "inland," though the term may
i,2 Wallace, 204.
+ Morris's Cotton, 8 Id. 507.
1 Elphinstone v. Bedreechund, I Knapp, 316.

THE COTTON PLANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

apply to such waters as flow into other waters that do discharge themselves into the sea.
This case is different from that of Mrs. Alexander's Cotton.
That was cotton seized wholly on land and which grew oil
the plantation where it was deposited. No maritime capture
was made with it, and there was nothing to distinguish it
from any other property on land which is ordinarily exempt
from condemnation as prize. The Red River, on whose
banks that seizure was, enters the Mississippi at a distance
of 334 miles from the sea.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered-the ol)inion of the court.
Whether the steamer Cotton Plant and her cargo of cotton
were subject to lawftl capture when seized, is a question.
that need not now be considered; for if it be conceded that
they were, we are still of opinion that they were not liable
to condemnation as maritime prize. The capture was made
within the State of North Carolina, on the Roanoke River,
and about one hundred and thirty miles above its mouth. It
was made by a naval force detached from two steamers that
had proceeded up the river from Albemarle Sound, one
about eighty, and the other about one hundred miles, where
they stopped, in consequence of the crookedness of the
stream and apprehensions of low water. A picket launch,
with a crew of six men, and two other boats' crews, were
then sent forward, and they effected the capture. It was,
therefore, an inland capture, though made upon a river
which empties into an arm of the sea, and it was at a point
where ordinary vessels of war could not safcly go. There
was nothing in the situation of the property that required
peculiarly a naval force or maritime service to effect its
capture. The seizure might as well have been made by a
detachment from the army, as by one from the navy. It
appears to us, therefore, that in view of the legislation of
Congress, the property cannot be regarded as a maritime
prize. By the seventh section of the act of July 2d, 1864,*
*

13 Stat. at Large, 377.

Dec. 1870.]

THE COTTON PLANT.
Opinion of the court.

it was enacted "that no property seized or taken upon any
of the inland waters of the United States by the naval forces
thereof, shall be regarded as maritime prize; but all property so seized or taken shall be promptly delivered to the
proper officers of the courts (or) as provided in this act, and
in the said act approved March twelve, eighteen hundred
and sixty-three."
The language of this section is very
comprehensive. It embraces allproperly seized or taken by
the naval forces upon. any of the inland waters of the United
States. It would be difficult to give any reason for holding
that tflie part of the.Roanoke River upon which the Cotton
Plant was seized is not described by the phrase "any of the
inland waters of the United States," as understood by Congress. The river is wholly inland. It is true that it discharges its waters into Albemarle Sound, and that it is accessible directly from the ocean. But, in speaking of inland
waters, Congress must have intended waters, within hind
indeed, yet waters where a naval force can go, and where
naval captures could be made. And it is obvious that other
waters than those of the great lakes were contemplated and
dcsigned to be included. The act was passed during the
war of the rebellion, and it was part of a system devised for
seen ring captured and abandoned property in States and districts declared to be in insurrection by the President's proclamation of July 1st, 1862. There was no war upon the
lakes, and they were not within insurrectionary districts.
If; therefore, the act does not apply to rivers, and to rivers
accessible from the sea, upon which naval captures could be
made, it could never have had any practical effect. .But if
it applies to captures upon rivers, what reason can there be
for confining its operation to seizures by the naval forces
upol, rivers that run directly into the sea? The act speaks
of captures upon any of the inland waters of the United
States. It makes no distinction between rivers that run
directly into the sea, aunl those that flow into others that
discharge into the sea. If any distinction exists it is purely
arbitrary and judicial, rather than legislative. Both classes
of rivers are inland waters; equally such. Maritime service

MILLER V. MCKENZIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

can be no more meritorious or efficient upon one than upon
the other. In the absence of express legislative enactment
to that effect, no satisfactory reason can be given why a
vessel captured on the Red River five miles above its junction with the Mississippi should be iurned over to the courts
to be treated as captured and abandoned property under the
statutes of 1863 and 1864, which does not apply to a capture made on the Mississippi itself, five hundred miles
farther from the Gulf of Mexico. Congress probably anticipated, especially in view of the state of the war when the
act was passed, that most of the captures on the rivers would
be made by the army, and thought it unwise to continue
two modes for the disposition of the property taken.
Such being our opinion of the meaning of the seventh
section of the act of July 2d, 1864, we must hold that the
property captured and condemned in this case ought not to
have been regarded as maritime prize, and subject to condemnation as such.
The decree of the District Court is therefore REVERSRD,
and the case is remanded, in accordance with the rule stated
in United States v. Veed,* for further proceedings, if the government shall see fit to institute them.

MILLER V. MCKENZIE.
A writ of error dismissed as defective in respect to parties, where the suit
was against four persons by name, and the writ recited that it was
against two which it named, "and others."

ERROR to the District Court for the Northern District of
Mississippi.
Pitzer Miller brought suit in £he 'court just named against
Larkin McKenzie, James Hamer, Joseph Iamer, and Ezekiel Wall, to recover the value of several bales of cotton.
* 5 Wallace, 62.

