Dec. 1870.]

WARD V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

the commission on the renewal pren-iums, like 'those on
the original prerniums, was to be paid only so long as the
plaintiff continued to be the agent of the comIpany.
Nor can we doubt for a moment that the later circular
must be held to represent the agreement of the parties as
to coml)ensation. After having received that circular and
acted on it for fifteen years, received and adjusted his compensation by it, he is estopped to deny that it was the contract under which he acted. If there was any other contract
it was for him to show it. lie does not do this by producing
the circular of the year previous. If' there was anything
fraudulent, unfiir, or illegal iu the new terms offered, or in
the mode in which lie was induced to accept them, he should
have shown it, but he has not even attempted it.
We are, therefore, clearly of opinion that when it is shown
that, as agent of the company, he received and acted upon
that circular, he is bound by its terms as the mcasure of his
compensation.
JUDGMENT A FriRmED.

WARD v. UNITED STATES.
An ancient claim against the United States, founded on loan certificates
issued by the Continental Congress in 1777, and sent to the loan office
in Georgia, to be given in exchange for money when countersigned by
the loan officer of that State, rejected; there being no sufficient evidence that the certificates were countersigned and issued as required by
the legislation which authorized them; the amu claim having been rejected in 1792 by Alexander Hamilton, then Secretary () the Treasury,
and there being no sufficient evidence now that the facts then assumed
by him as the basis of his conclusions were unfounded. The claim being
moreover considered by this court as without equity.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
The Continental Congress, on the 3d clay of October,
1776, being in want of five millions of dollars to prosecufe
the war, resolved to borrow it on what were called loanTeL. x.

88

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statdment of the case.

office certificates, and to establish a loan office in each State
for the convenience of the lenders of money. The resolution directed the appointment by the authority of the State
of a commissioner of loans, whose duty it was to receive the
certificates from the Treasurer of the United States, and to
deliver them for such sums of money as he should be able
to borrow. The faith of the government was pledged to
redeem these certificates when countersigned by this officer.
In continuation of its policy on this subject, Congress, on
the 15th of January and the 22d of February, 1777, provided
for a further issue of this class of securities on the basis of
the resolutions of the preceding October. Accordingly, certificates in proper form, duly signed by the designated Federal officer, were transmitted to the different loan offices of
the country to be given in exchange for money, when countersigned by the loan officer of the State. Some of these
certificates were sent to the loan office of Georgia, and
among them forty-three, now in the possession of one Ward,
as treasurer of a company called the Ohio Company, an old
land company composed originally largely of Revolutionary
soldiers, and which forty-three certificates made the foundation of the claim in the court below. His petition alleged
that they were duly issued and in possession of a bona fide
holder on December 23d, 1781, and about 1787 came into
the possession of the Ohio Company, and he now claimed
payment from the United States; representing apparently
the Ohio Company, the real owner in the matter.
The Court of Claims decided at first in favor of the claim,
but the matter was referred back by Congress for a further
consideration.
On this second hearing the court found as matter of fact
thus:
"2. That it was unknown and could not be ascertained who
was the commissioner for the State of Georgia, or whether any
such commissioner had been appointed and authorized to countersign such loan certificates; that at the time of the transaction there was no formal loan office in Georgia, and that a large
part of the State was in the possession of the public enemy.

Dec. 1870.]

WARD V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

"3. That the said loan certificates were not signed by any
duly authorized commissioner for the State of Georgia, but that
they bore a certificate in the words following, to wit:
" 'Countersigned:
Georgia.

By order of J. A. Treutlin, Esq., Governor of
E. DAvIS, JR.'

"4. That there was no evidence to show that E. Davis, Jr,,
was a commissioner for Georgia, or that he was ever reputed to
be such, or that he was authorized to countersign such loan
certificates by the State or by the governor of Georgia, or that
these are the veritable signatures of E. Davis, Jr.
" 5. That interest on certain loan certificates, similar to those
in action, was paid by the Treasury Department up to the 23d
December, 1781, and that on twenty-nine of the certificates in
action interest for four years has also been paid by the defendants, and duly noted and indorsed thereupon, and that no objection to these or similar loan certificates, or to the authority
of E. Davis, Jr., to act as commissioner, was taken by the defendants until the year 1792.
"6. That no direct consideration or value ever passed to the
defendants from the claimant or from any other person for the
said loan."
In regard to the question about which the Court of
Claims certified that no evidence showed it, to wit, whether
E. Davis, Jr., was commissioner of loans for the State, &c.,
it appeared that the questions had. been considered in 1792
by Mr. Hamilton, then Secretary of the Treasury, and that
in a report dated the 28th of March, 1792, and published at
the time, he stated as the result of '' diligent inquiry" on the
subject, that lie had been unable to obtain evidence either
of the appointment of E. Davis to the office of commissioner of loans for Georgia, or that he was ever known or
reputed to have acted in that capacity; and that there was
no evidence that the paper which he put in circulation had
been issued for any purpose of the United States. With
this report papers were transmitted to Congress tending to
justify his conclusion, and to show that the certificates were
placed in the hands of Davis hy the executive council of
Georgia, to purchase goods for the State. These papers con-

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sisted qf an affidavit of John Wereat, auditor of Georgia,
and a long time resident there, denying that Davis, whom
he well knew, was at any time commissioner of loans; of
letters from Richard Wyllzhyr, commissioner of loans of the
State in 1791, giving his opinion to the same effect, and a
communication from Samuel Steick, of Gove,.rnor Houston's
staff, that the certificates were issued on State account.*
The payment of interest Secretary Hamilton conceived to
have been unauthorized, and made by mistake of one of the
treasurers, a certain Hillegas. Ile notes that such mistakes
had occurred, and that there were examples of payment on
both forged and counterfeit -certificates; a payment which
he observes " could not confer validity upon. a claim originally destitute of it, though it might occasion hardship to
individuals, who, on the faith of fhat payment, might have
been induced to become possessors of these certificates fbr a
valuable consideration." There was, however, no intimation
that such was the case with regard to these certificates.
In 1795 the same certificates apparently were presented
by one Tracy "for Benjamin Talmadge,"t who sought to
have them funded, but, in consequence of the objections previously made to then by Mr. Hamilton, they were rejected.
According to a statement of Ward, found among the
public documents,t the certificates w6re presented to the
treasury in 1792 by Mr. Talmadge (who was treasurer of the
Ohio Company from 1791 until 1825), and remained there
until 1812. In that year having, according to this statement
of Ward, been sold by Mr. Talmadge, treasurer of the company, at public auction, and bought by one John Delafield
(though still according to Ward's statement considered the
property of the Ohio Company), the certificates were withdrawn from the treasury, and Congress was asked to pay
them, on the petition of Delafield, who states in his petition
that he owned them, and wished them funded for his benefit.
See American State Papers, class ix, vol. Claims, pp. 464-5.
t Ib. 179.
See Report, No. 101, House of Representatives, 19th Congress, 1st session, by Mr. Little, from the Committee on Revolutionary Claims.

Dec. 1870.]

WARD V.

"UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

Before the committee of Congress which had charge of
the subject, and of which Mr. Talmadge was chairman,
.many. letters and documents were produced; letters from
Major Hugh McCall, a revolutionary officer of Georgia, and
others, to show that the claim was well founded; 'among
them a letter giving a history of the two persons already
named (Wereat and Steick), who had certified in the papers
accompanying Mr. Hamilton's report, in a way which made
against the claims; Major McCall's letters tending to prove
that Wereat and Steick were uninformed 'of the passing
events during Governor Treutlin's administration; also a
certificate of Sheftall, Esq., stating that E. Davis did in the
latter part of 1777 receive an appointment from Governor
Treutlin " similar to that of commissioner of loans," and
countersign certificates. Divers well-known persons testified that Mr.Sheftall's integrity was great, and his knowledge of events in the revolutionary war was supposed to be
superior to that of any person living; that he had "an unusually strong memory," and that they would consider him
in 1816 quite competent to speak about the matter in question.
The committee, of which Mr. Talmadge was chairman,
reported in successive sessions of the Fourteenth Congress
in favor of the payment.* But Congress did not pay the
claim.
On the case as found by them the Court of Claims decided
as matter of law:
"1. That no cause of action would arise upon the said loan
certificates unlessthe same were duly countersigned by a commissioner for the State of Georgia.
"2: That in the absence of other evidence the indorsements
of E. Davis, Jr., did not raise a legal presumption that E. :Davis,
Jr., was a commissioner for the State of Georgia, or that he was
authorized to countersign such certificates, or that the signatures are the veritable signatures of the said E. Davis, Jr.
* Se American State Papers, vol. Claims, p. 468, report 296, 1st session,
14th Congress; 1b. p. 496, report 325, 2d session of the same Congress.

WARD V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

"3. That the payment and cancellation of certain similar loan
certificates and the payment of interest for four years upon certain of the loan certificates in action did not raise a legal presumption that E. Davis, Sr., was a commissioner for the State
.of Georgia, or authorized to countersign such loan certificates,
and do not estop or conclude the defdndants from controverting
such authority and signature."
The claimant now brought the case here.
Mr. Stanbery and Mr. T. Ewing, Jr., for the appellant:
This claim is old, but not by the fault of the claimant;
for until 1855 there was no forum provided by the United
States to hear and decide it. Meanwhile, as is matter of
historical knowledge, all the executive records in Georgia
were destroyed by fire, in 1780.* And "the papers of the
State of Georgia, on which a settlement was made by the
United States with that State," were burned in August,
1814, with other records of the United States Treasury.t
Evidence of contemporaries abundant to prove the claiml
perished before the United States provided a court to hear
or perpetuate it. The time of the issue was not favorable
to strict method in governmental transactions, and they
were very loosely conducted. These certificates were executed and sent to Georgia while the Continental govei'nment was on the wing from Philadelphia to Lancaster, and
thence to Yorktown.ยง The date was left blank, and apparently also the name of the payee, to be filled up by the
State agent, and they were charged in the first instance to
nobody. The State was at that time invaded and this fund
was sent to enable the local government and forces to make
head against the enemy, which soon after overran the rest.
of Georgia, took its capital, and drove its executive officers
from the State.II
In a report to the House of Representativ6s, in 1797, the
Statement of Peter Deveaux, member of Executive Council,..A merican
State Papers, vol. Claims, p. 599.
t Report of Register of the Treasury, 1816, lb. p. 466.
$ lb. 599.
38 Journals, 400.
I Lee's Memoirs, vol. i, p. 6870.
American State Papers, vol. Claims, p. 202.

Dec. 1870.]

WARD

V. UNITED

STATES.

Argument against the claim.

Honorable Dwight Foote, chairman of the committee on
claims, said:
"It will be recollected that at the commencement of the war
the United States were destitute of money, and during a long
period of years afterwards were obliged to rely principally on
credit in all of their important operations. Having at that time
no settled National government, a regular system for conducting public business, especially money transactions depending on
credit, was not to be expebted. Great numbers of individuals
were necessarily invested with the power of binding the-public
by their contracts. Almost every officer of the army, whether
in the commissary department or otherwise, in different stages
of the war, had it in his power to contract debts legally or equit.
ably binding on the United States."
In view of these circumstances, this case should be judged
without unfriendly presumptions from the absence of evidence which perished by time or fire before a court was
allowed to hear or perpetuate it, or from that apparent want
of method in the transaction which came of the exigencies
of the Revolution, to promote which these certificates were
expended.
But the positive recognition of the claim is great. The
payment of interest for four years, which was of course indorsed on the certificate, gave them a currency which was
above all reproach. They were payable to bearer. The report of 1792, doubtless prepared by a clerk, bears the signature of Alexander Hamilton, and the shadow of his great
name seems to have thenceforth obscured the case. But
that report was largely founded on the testimony of Wereat
and Steick, whose knowledge, the far better information of
Mr. Sheftall shows to have been bad, in regard to the relation which E. Davis, Jr., bore to these certificates; and in
this tribunal no name, however high, and no error, however
ancient or often repeated, if finally refuted, should stop the
course of justice.
Mr. Talbot, for the United Slates, relied largely upon the
report of Mr. Hamilton, whose knowledge was contempo-

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

rary knowledge, and who above all statesmi of the day
would have paid any claim against the United States which
was not plainly unfounded. There was no evidence whatever that he suffered his clerks to make reports for him on
subjects involving the credit and good faith of the United
States.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States deny their obligation to pay the certificates in controversy, because they were not countersigned
in conformity with the prescribed regulation of Congress,
nor used for their benefit. It will be conceded, if they were
not executed as required by the legislation on the subject,
that they were irregularly issued, and the United States
under no obligation to pay them unless they are estopped
in some way from interposing this defeuce.
It becomes, therefore, of importance, in the first instance,
to ascertain whether E. Davis, Jr., who countersigned them,
as he says, by order of J. A. Treutlin, governor of Georgia,
was commissioner of loans for the State, and whether he
negotiated them on account of the United States.
Fortunately, these questions were considered in 1792 by
Alexander Hamilton, then Secretary of the Treasury, who
was chaiged by Congress with their investigation. In his
report of the 28th of March of that year, he *states as the
result of diligent inquiry on the subject, that he had been
unable to obtain evidence either of the appointment of E.
Davis to the office of commissioner of loans fo Georgia,
or that he was ever known or reputed to have acted in that
capacity, and that there was no evidence that the paper
which he put in circulation had been issued for any purpose
of the United States. With this report papers were transmitted not only justifying the conclusion reached by the
Secretary, but tending strongly to show that the certificates
were placed in the hands of Davis by the executive council
of Georgia to plrchase goods for the State. These papers
consist of an affidavit of John Wereat, auditor of Georgia,
and a long time resident there, denying that Davis, whom

Dec. 1870.]

WARD V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

he well knew, was at any time commissioner of loans; of
letters from Richaf'd Wyllzhyr, commissioner of loans of the
State in 1791, giving his opinion to the same effect, and a
communication from Samuel Steick, of Governor Houston's
staff, that the certificates were issued on State account.*
This report, with the accompanying papers, was published,
and, of course, read by the holders of the disputed paper.
If in their power to deny it, interested as they were to do so,
it would at least have beeh attempted. As no contradictory
proof was furnished to the Treasury Department, always
ready and willing to receive it, it isfair to infer that none
existed. But this consideration did not pievent the holders.
:of this paper from seeking to get iLfunded in 1795. They
were met by the accounting officers of the treasury with the
same objections taken by Mr. hIamilto n,and, as these were
not removed, the same result followed. In this condition
of things, if the controversy had been between individuals,
and there had been another forum to hear 'and decide it, it
would have been resorted to at once, unless the decision of
the first tribunal was accepted as final. But the holders
of these certificates acted differently. Instead of taking an
immediate appeal to Congress from the decision of the
treasury, they waited until two decades had passed away.
INahum Ward says that these identical certificates were presented to the treasury in 1792, by Mr. Talmadge, and
remained there until 1812,' when they were withdrawn and
Congress asked to pay them, on the petition of John Delafield, who professed to possess them in his own right. t
Why this delay of twenty years? No reason is even suggested for it, and none can be given which is consistent
with the conduct of mii -in the ordinary aflhairs of life. It
is absurd to suppose that any one, informed of the grounds
of. objection to a controverted claim, if there were evidence
to remove them, would delay action on the subject until
See American State Papers, class ix, vol. Claims, pp. 464, 465.
t See Report No. 101, House of Representatives, 19th Congress, 1st seslion, by Mr. Little, from the Committee on Revolutionary Claims.

WARD V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

thirty-fo ur years had passed since the transaction, out of
which the claim hadarisen, occurred.
It is said the forum was changed because of newly discovered evidence, and for proof of this we are referred to
the reports of Mr. Talmadge, chairman of the committee,
on the petition of John Delafield, made to Congress in 1816
with the accompanying papers. It is hard to reconcile these
reports with the ownership of the property as claimed by
Nahum Ward. He says the Ohio Company has owned the
forty-three certificates since 1791, and yet Delafield stated
in his petition that he owned them, and wished them funded
for his benefit, and we must suppose the Congress of that
day, and especially Mr.'Tallmadge, believed the fact to. be
aยง stated by Delafield. At any rate the Ohio Company is
estol)ed from denying the change of ownership, as Ward
says that Mr. Talmadge, who was treasurer of the company
from 1791 until 1825, was ordered to sell the certificates by
the company, and did sell them at public auction to Delafield. It is true he couples this statement with another, that,
notwithstanding Delafield's purchase, they were :eensideied
as the company's property; but this would place Mt,. T!lrnadg6 in the predicament of aiding, while a member, of ie
National legislature, to procure the payment of a dsputid
debt for a company of which he was an important ofieer.*
And why the necessity of selling at all unless there were
an honest purpose of parting with the title to the property ?
It surely was as easy to prosecute a just claim before CuO,
gress in the name of a corporation as in the name of a natural person. If, then, Delafield purchased the claim free
from any trust, as we are bound to suppose in order to relieve the Ohio Company and their treasurer -rom censure,
he did it at his own risk and for a venture, and took it subject to all equities. lie cannot plead want of' notiee of the
defences interposed by the United States, because the company of whom he bought, and of which he was a member,
See Report, No. 101, House of Representatives, 19th Congress, 1st
session.

Dec. 1870.]

WARD V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

were well informed on the subject. It does not appear how
or when the title got back in the Ohio Company, nor is it
of any consequence, as the company occupies the same position in this litigation that Delafield would had he retained
the ownership of the certificates.
. But, apart from this view of the subject, these reports do
not change the status of the parties to this controversy.
The evidence they furnish comes too late, is chiefly hearsay
in its character, and shoffld have. no weight in the determination of the questions in dispute. It consists mainly of
lengthy letters from Major Hugh McCall, of Georgia, iddressed to Mr. Talmadge, which seem to be in the nature
of arguments against the position taken by the government.
One of them is devoted to a futile effort to prove that Wereat
and Steick were uninformed of the passing events during
Governor Tr~utlin's administration. It,is true the certificate of Mr. Sheftall tends to show that Davis did act in the
capacity of commissioner of loans, but although it is certified
that he had an unusually strong memory, we place but little
reliance on his recollection in 1816, of what transpired in the
commissary department of Georgia in 1777-78. Especially
do we distrust his memory of these events when it is in opposition to the recollection of others, equally trustworthy, who
testified in 179 , twenty-four years nearer.the time when the
certificates were put in circulation.
It is urged that the United States is not in a position to
contest the validity of these certificates, because of the payment of interest for a period of four years. The report of
Mr. Hamilton takes the ground that the interest was paid
by the mistake of the treasurer, and without authority, and
therefore not binding on the United States. It is very clear
that there was no purpose on the part of the government to
ratify the acts of Davis, for the paper bearing his name was
rejected, as soon as the attention of the proper department
was called to it. But it is not-necessary to discuss the general rules of law on the subject of ratification, and to show
in what state of case they are applicable, for, in our judgment, under the circumstances of the claim, as they appear

MEROHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

in this case, there is no equity raised in favor of the Ohio
Company against the United States.
Without pursuing the subject further, or noticing the
various repbrts in Congress adverse to this claim, we are
satisfied it is not a just charge on the treasury of the United
States.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.
I am of opinion that the demand of the plaintiff is a just
obligation of the United States, as binding as any part of
the public debt of the country.

MERCHANTS' BANK V. STATE BANK.
1. Evidence of powers habitually exercised by a cashier of a bank with its
knowledge and acquiescence, defines and establishes, as to the public,
those powers, provided that they be such as the directors of the bank
may, without violation of its charter, confer on such cashier.
2. .Where the authority of the agent is left to be infeired by the public from
powers usually exercised by the agent, it is enough if the transaction
in question involves precisely the same general powers, though applied
to a new subject-matter.
Thus, if in the case of a bank having power by its charter to buy and
sell exchange, coin and bullion, its cashier have habitually, with the
knowledge of the bank, dealt with the public as authorized to buy and,
sell exchange, then the power to buy and sell coin also (the right to
do both being conferred by the same clause of the charter), may be
inferred by a jury.
So, if a cashier is shown to have frequently pledged in writing the credit
of his bank for large amounts in the usual course of business, with the
knowledge of the bank-borrowing and lending its money, and buying
and selling exchange-doing all this usually by cashier's checks, though
sometimes by certificates of deposit and sometimes by memoranda, the
transactions being uniformly made in faith of the implied powers of
the cashier, without inquiry as to special authorization, and such is
shown to be the usage of other banks as. aJbove stated, it is evidence
from which a jury may itlfer that such cashici is authorized to pledge
the bank's credit by certifying a check to be 1 good; " this last method
being one not distinct in its nature from the others named, but similar

