HANRICK v. NEELY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

HANRICK V. NEELY.
Where a party having a good title in fee to lands gives a power of attorney
to sell them, and the person having the power executes in proper form
in behalf of his principal a conveyance, the facts that he was com-

pelled to make the conveyance by a decree of court on a litigation consequent on a difference between himself and persons to whom he had
contracted to sell, as to the terms of the contemplated sale, and on the
trial gives no proof of the decree in connection with the deed, is no
ground for rejecting the deed on a question between subsequent parties.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Texas.
This was an action of trespass, according to the local
practice of Texas, to try the title to several leagues of land,
in Falls County, in that State.'
On the trial-of the case befbre a jury the plaintiff proved
title in one Pedro Zarsa to the lands in controversy, and
gave in evidence a letter of attorney, executed in 1831, from
Zarsa to McKinney, authorizing him to sell the lands or to
substitute another person in his stead for that purpose.
McKinney did not execute the power conferred on him, but,.
in 1833, delegated it to one Williamson by a letter of substitution, which was also received by the court in evidence.
In further derivation of title the plaintiff offered in evidence
a deed of the property made in the name of Zarsa, in 1851,
by Williamson, under the substituted power, to Hanrick,
the plaintiff.
It appeared, from the evidence, that Williamson, on behalf of Zarsa, had contracted to sell the several tracts of land
to Hanrick, and that the sale was not completed, owing to
differences concerning it, which had arisen between the
parties. These diflhrences produced litigation, in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Texas, which resulted in the court decreeing that Williamson, on behalf of his principal, should convey to Hanrick.
This deed, offered as above stated, by the plaintiff, was
rejected by thfe court below on the ground that as it was
made and delivered in pursuance of a decree of the District

Dec. 1870.]

DHANRICK V. NEELY.
Opinion of the court.

Court, the decree was necessary to support the deed, and
without proof of it (which was not furnished) the deed could
not be read in evidence to the jury. The court also apparently based its rejection of the deed on the ground that it
was delivered by the clerk to IHanrick in obedience to the
decree of the court, and that therefore proof of the decree
was necessary to support the delivery. There was other
evidence offered, rejected, and exceptions taken, but the
only point in the case wiich the court deemed it necessary
to notice related to the ruling of the court, excepted to at

the time, excluding this deed from the consideration of the
jury. The main question was whether the deed was good
without the decree?
Mr. W. G. -Hale,for the plaintiff in error. No opposing
counsel.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It may be true that the deed which the court below rejected was executed because of the decree made by the
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, and that it
would not have been made if the decree had not been rendered, but it does not follow that the decree was necessary
to its validity. The fee of the lands was in Zarsa, and the
power of Williamson, his attorney in fact, to sell and convey
them to Hanrick, was plenary, and did not require, to be
employed, that a court of justice should act on it. If Williamson was stimulated by the decree to exercise the power
thus vested in him by Zarsa, what right have the defendants
to question his action or complain of it? They are not concerned with the reasons that induced him to act, nor with
the nature or result of the litigation with Ilanrick. All
that they are interested to know is, that Zarsa had title to
the lands, that he authorized Williamson to sell, and that
the conveyance to Hanrick was in due fbrm of law. The
decision by this court in Games v. Stiles* is a direct authority
against the position taken by the court below. In that case,
Buchanan, the purchaser from the United States of lands in
* 14 Peters, 822.

tIANRICK v. NEELY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Ohio, sold them to Sterling, but recited in his deed, that the
conveyance was made in pursuance of a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Virginia. The
court held that it was not necessary to prove the decree to
sustain the deed; that as Buchanan was the patentee of the
land, although lie made the deed under the authority of the
decree, yet the deed was good without the decree, which
could add nothing to its validity. -If anything, the case at
bar is stronger than the case just cited, because Zarsa does
not recite in the body of the deed that the conveyance is
made in consequence of the decree, and we only learn the
fact that it was so, by an indorsement on the back of the deed.
One other point remains to be noticed. It seems that the
court based its rejection of the deed also on the ground that
it was delivered by the clerk to tIanriek in obedience to the
decree of the court, and that therefore proof of the decree
was necessary to support the delivery. But the deed was
not complete without delivery, and the decrue of the court
was no more essential to give validity to the delivery than
it was to any other formality necessary to the full execution
of the instrument. Williamson autiiorized the delivery,
and has acquiesced in it, and no one else can object to the
mode by which the act was accomplished. All that the defendants are interested in, is the flict of delivery, and about
this there is no dispute. They are no more concerned with
the considerations that induced Williamson to deliver the
deed to Tlanrick, through the clerk of the court, than they
are with the motives that prompted him to affix his signature and sea] to the instrument.
Apart from this, Hanrick, the grantee, being in possession
of the deed, which upon the face of it is regularly executed,
and, having had it recorded, the presumption is that it was
duly delivered.*
It is, therefore, clear that the Circuit Court erred in rejecting the deed, and on that account its judgment is
REVERSED AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

Carver v. Jackson, 4 Peters, 84; Ward v. Lewis, 4 Pickering, 620.

