Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

339

Syllabus.

possible advantage.

No look-out would have ventured, or

presumed, to interfere with the captain, who had the helm
at the time. It would probably have been rathier an interference and a hindrance to the safe management of the boat
for any third person in such an exigency to have diverted
his attention. The obstacle was there in plain sight. Its
position was better known to the captain than to any other
person. No look-out could have aided him in tile emergency. But, if a look-out were needed, we have the evidence of the mate that he was on the hurricane-de-ek watching the course of the steamer at the time; and, had it been
possible for any look-out to have been of any service, he
would have rendered it. Clark, the captain of the canalboat, was also on the watch as well as Nolte, the ship's carpenter, and one of the owners of the steamer. It is perfectly
.evident that the absence of a special look-out had uothing
at all to do with the happening of the accident, and therefore it can have nothing to do with fixing the liability of the
parties.
It is also evident that the loss was occasioned by the violence of the cross-current, which was due to the great height
of water prevailing at the time, and was therefore the result
of one of the ordinary dangers of river navigation.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.
1. Equity will enjoin one partner from violating the' rights of his copartner in partnership matters, although no dissolution of the partnership
be contemplated.
2. Where a person makes an entry on land owned by others jointly interested with him in working it, but which is held by these last subject to
a right of entry and possession in him, for fnilure or refusal by them
to fulfil certain conditions and stipulations about the products of the
land, which they have covenanted to fulfil, so that primd facie his
entry is a deforcement of the owners and an invasion of their rights

340

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
as such, the burden is on the party entering to show that his entry
was justiflabl .
3. Where a deed from one owner conveyed quarry lanus to his co-owners,
reserving a right in the grantor, if the grantees did not furnish marble
from them, to enter and keep possession. and take the marble himself,
till the grantees should be ready and willing to fulfil the conditions of
the contract on their part, an injunction which, after unwarrantable
and illegal entry for alleged condition broken, enjoined the grantor
from hindering the grantees from retaking possession and occupying
and using the premises until the further order of the court, was held.too
broad, and on appeal was modified so as only to enjoin against an entry
for any cause theretofore existing; thus leaving the grantor to enjoy
his reserved right thereafter untramelled.
4. Where a corporation, by its own voluntary act, has bought lands charged
by covenants inseparable from the deed by which the land was originally conveyed, and which were part of the consideration of the grant,
a court of equity cannot strike out a part of the covenants, because
though originally intended to operate for the equal benefit of both
parties, they have become in progress of time oppressive and burdensome to the grantee; or because the purchase would make the corpora.
tion partners with the grantor in working the land, whether they
would or not, contrary to their duties as a corporation, and the con-'
tract would thus become one restraining the alienability of property.
5. Specific performance of a contract will not be decreed:
(a) Against one party in favor of another who has disregarded his
own reciprocal obligations in the matter; as ex.gr., against a grantee
of land charged with certain duties in regard to it, in favor of a
grantor who has made a re-entry both unlawful and fraudulent.
(b) Nor where the duties to be fulfilled by the grantee are continuous and involve the exercise of skill, personal labor, and cultivated judgment; as ex. gr., to deliver marble of certain kinds, and
in blocks of a kind that the court is incapable of determining whether
they accord with the contract or no:
(c)Nor where there is a want of mutuality in the contract; as ex.
gr., where it is stipulated that one of the. parties may abandon the
contract at any time on giving a year's notice:
(d) Nor where the party (a grantor) has a complete remedy at
law; as ex. gr., in a grant of quarry land, the grantee agreeing to
quarry and deliver to the grantor certain sorts of marble from it,
and the grantor reserving a right of re-entry in case of non-perform.
ance, in order to supply himself, and having moreover a remedy by
an ordinary suit at law on the contract.
6. A restriction upon absolute ownership in a grant of land having on it a
quarry, where the grantees agree to deliver to the grantor, his heirs,
&c.,so long as they might want, a certain number of feet, per annum,
of stone of certain kinds, for a partnership purpose (the grantor reserving a right of re-entry and of taking the stone himself, if the

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

341

Statement of the case.
grantees do not fulfil their agreement) is not to be raised by implication. Hence, in the case of such a grant, where there is no obvious
restriction upon the quantity of stone which the grantees may take out,
it cannot be inferred that the grantees were meant to be limited to
taking out no nore stone than that which they have agreed to deliver
to the grantor.
7. Such a grant and reservation as that described in paragraph No. 3,
supra,limited however in the extent to which the grantees were bound
to furnish marble, does not leave in the grantor a corporeal interest
in the marble "in situ," and hence his interest is not exclusive of
the right of the grantees to take marble on their own account " ad
libitum."
THESE were appeals from the Circuit Court for the District of Vermont, in two decrees, one of them on a bill filed
by the Rutland Marble Company against a certain Ripley
and one Barnes, and the other one a cross-bill filed by the
same Ripley again'st the company just named. The case
was this:
On the 22d of January, 1850, the said Ripley and the said
Barnes together owned a tract of land in Rutland township,
Vermont, containing about twenty-one acres, in which was
a valuable marble quarry. On that day Ripley, by his deed,
released and quit-claimed unto his co-tenant, Barnes, in fee
simple, the tract of land. The deed contained a reservation
to the releasor, his heirs, executors, administrators, and
assigns, of "the right to enter upon and take possession of
the said twenty-one acres, for the purpose of digging, quarrying, and carrying away all the marble lie or they might
want, according to the stipulations and conditions of a contract that day made and concluded between the said Ripley
and Barnes, in case 'the said Barnes, his heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns, should refuse, or fail on their
part to fulfil the conditions and stipulations of the said contract." By the contract referred to, which was made on the
same day, Barnes agreed, " for himself, his heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns, to quarry marble from the marble
quarry, and draw and deliver at the mill of the said Ripley,

in Rutland, from the layers of marble usuallq denominated the
white layers in said quarry, all the marble that the said Ripley

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

might want to saw, manufacture, and sell, in good sound
blocks, of suitable size, shape, and proportion, and to quarry
to order as might be wanted to keep the mill fully supplied
at all times, the amount to be not less than 75,000 feet per
annum, and for so long a time as the said Ripley, his heirs,
executors, administrators, and assigns might want." It was
also agreed that should Ripley, his heirs, &c., at any fhture
time desire to increase the business, Barnes, his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, should furnish the blocks,
as aforesaid, to the extent of 150,000 feet per annum of twoinch marble slabs, on receiving one year's notice to that
effect. It was also agreed that Ripley, his heirs, &c., or his
or their agents, might have the privilege of dividing each
lot of blocks, as taken and drawn from-the quarry, taking
an average share as to quality, size, and shape, before any
blocks should be taken from the lots by any other person,
the first choice always being taken by Ripley, or for his
mill. It was also stipulated that Ripley might abandon the

contract at any time on givinq one year's notice. The contract
further stipulated that if Barnes, his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns should fail or refuse to fulfil its
conditions, Ripley, his heirs, executors, administrators, or
assigns, or his or their agents, might enter upon the quarry

and the premises attached to, and connected with it, and might
quarry and dig, take and carry away, as much marble as they
might want; and night have the use of, and enjoy all the
rights, privileges, and appurtenances belonging to, or connected with, the said quarry, without hindrance or ohstruction, or in any way paying for the same, and might keep

possession until Barnes, his heirs, executors, administrators,or
assigns, should be ready and willing to fulfil the conditions (fthe
contract on their part; it being also provided that if, after
making an entry as aforesaid, Ripley, or his heirs, &c., should
make an opening, or put the quarry in a better condition.
for getting out marble, Barnes, his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns should not re-enter, or resume possession, until Ripley, his heirs, &c., should have had the benefit
of the work done and money expended by them, unless

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.
Statement of the case.

Barnes should make payment for the same. It was further
provided that Ripley, his heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns should receive the marble blocks so delivered at
the mill; should saw, trim, and prepare them for market;
should sell them, advancing from time to time to Barnes,
as the blocks should be delivered, twelve cents per foot of twoinch marble, as payment for drawing and quarrying, and
retaining from the proceeds of sales of the marble an equal
sum per foot, as payment for sawing and trimming, retaining also from the proceeds of sales the expenses of transportation to market, and all the necessary expenses of doing
the business and collecting payment for the marble (not including payment fbr his own time and labor), and should
divide the remainder of the proceeds of sale equally between
Barnes and himself, as collected. Ripley further agreed to
pay Barnes one cent per foot of two-inch marble for drawing and transporting the marble from the quarry to the
mill, the payment to be made from his own funds. At the
date of this contract the quarry had been opened at the
north end only, though Barnes contemplated making an
opening on the south end, for two persons named Allen and
Adams. Tlie contract contained accordingly still another
provision, evidently an alternative ; to wit, that if the marble contained in that part of the ledge which Barnes was
about to open for Allen and Adams should prove to be of
better quality than the marble from the quarry then opened
and worked upon the land, Barnes should open on the south
end of the lot cdnveyed to him, and furnish Ripley with
marble from that place on receiving reasonable notice.
Barnes having thus become the owner in severalty of the
land containing the quarry, conveyed it, on the 1st of June,
1854, to sundry persons, expressly excepting the right reserved by Ripley in his deed aforesaid, and reserving to
himself -a right of entry in case his grantees should fail to
perfbrm his contract with Ripley. By several mesne conveyances the property became vested in the Rutland Marble
Company on the 31st of October, 1863. In all the deeds,
including that to the company, the right of entry reserved

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

by Ripley in his conveyance to Barnes, and his rights under
the contract, were expressly excepted, and the grantors reserved also a right of entryon the failure of their grantees
to comply with the engagements of the contract of January
22d, 1850.
Soon after the contract was made, Ripley gave notice
that
he i'equired his supply of marble under it to be increased
from 75,000 to 150,000 feet, and on the 24th of July, 1854,
he gave notice that he wanted the whole of his marble
quarried from the south end of the ledge, next to the opening of Allen and Adams, according to the contract. On the
22d of August, 1855, he again gave notice that he claimed,
under his contract of January 22d, 1850, to be forever thereafter .upplied with marble from a proper opening of the
ledge-for the purpose, on the south end of the lot conveyed
by his deed 'o Barnes. Accordingly an opening was made
at the south end, necessarily at considerable expense, and he
was supplied therefrom for years, until the spring of 1864,
and until differences arose which resulted in these suits.
Until that opening was made in 1854, or 1855, there was
none on the land except the due which had been made
at the north end before the contract between Barnes and
Ripley was signed.
In the year 1854, while Barnes was still the owner of the
land, a modification of the contract was agreed upon between
him and Ripley, the particulars of which it is not necessary
here to notice. The modification expired by its own limitation on the 1st of February, 1864, leaving the original
agreement in full force. As already said, the marble cornpany had, prior to that time, become the owners of the
property; and they had fulfilled, so far as it appeared, the
requirements of the modified contract. But very soon after
its expiration, if not before, differences arose betweei .them
and Ripley respecting their rights under the agreement.
On the 15th of February, 1864, he gave them notice that
he claimed a right to divide every lot of blocks at all times
thereafter, when taken from the quarry, insisting on a right
to a first choice; and when this demand was resisted by the

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

345

Statement of the case.

marble company it was renewed by Ripley. Differences
also arose between the parties respecting Ripley's obligation under the terms of the contract, calling for "layers of
marble usually denominated the white layers," to receive
crtain kinds of marble called brocadilla, havinig in a basis
essentially white considerable deposits of blue or green ; differences also respecting his right to demand payment for
unloading at his mill, and respecting his obligation to pay
for quarrying and hauling.
In this state of things, on the 5th of April, or within a day
or two after it, a strike took place among the workmen at
the quarries. On its occurring Ripley advised the company
to hold out, saying "that he would aid in whatever way he
could; that the workmen had had their way long enough;
that the company ought to resist the thing 'now, and ought
to have done it years before." When replied to by the agent
of the company that the difficulty to resistance was in the
contract with him about the mill, he said "that the strikes
affected his men and all the men at the mills, and that
he would rather wait six months, or even twelve, and have
the company get possession of the quarry and manage it as it
ought to be managed." Evidence, however, showed that it
was observed about the 13th or 16th of April, that Ripley
himself was having drills made of the sort used in quarrying, and that lie kept persons in ignorance of the purpose for
which he meant to use them, and that when told by an agent
of the company whom he had advised to hold out against
the strike, " that the men understood that he was going to
set then to work, and that he was thus helping the strike
along as much as any one;" his reply was "that they did not
know bnt that lie was going to quarry somewhere else; that
they did not know where he was making drills to be used."
Whether the company had furnished to Ripley all the marble
that he had a right to demand, under the contract of January 22d, 1850, was one of the mattcrs in controversy. HIs
mills had been enlarged after the date of that contract, so
that they could saw 300,000 feet; and so enlarqed, were perhaps not fully supplied at all times. It appeared, however,

346

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

by the testimony of Ripley himself, and by his cross-bill, that
between the 1st of February, 1864, when the already-mentioned modification of the contract expired, and the 3d of
April (about which time the strike began), the marble compauy had delivered at Ripley's mill about 26,687 feet of
marble. Ripley, it appeared, was in arrears at this time
with his payments; and quarrying in the winter, it was
proved, is a sort of work which in a latitude so high as that
of Vermont, where frost necessarily pervades a quarry, is
performed with injury to the quarry worked on.
On the 26th of April, soon after the strike was complete,
Ripley, without giving any notice of his intended action,
caused an entry to be made upon the entire property, as well
the southern opening as the northern. The entry was made
about three o'clock in the morning, by Barnes, acting for
Ripley, and a large number of men were set at work, to the
exclusion of the marble company.
The company hereupon filed a bill in the court below,
setting forth various alleged pretensions of Ripley, which it
said were unfounded; the strike and his complicity with
the workmen ; that his mill was always sufficiently supplied,
&c.; and praying
That Barnes and Ripley might be enjoined against further
unlawful interference with, or occupation of the then, the
complainants' said property:
That the contract might be decreed rescinded and terminated, or, if not, that various questions respecting its construction might be settled by the decree of the court, and
that the defendant, Ripley, might be required to account for
the money of the complainants in his hands.
To this bill answers were put in by the defendants, and a
cross-bill was filed by Ripley. The answer of Ripley, more
material than Barnes's, after a general history of things, denied most of the important allegations of the bill. It admitted, however, the strike, as stated in it, and after saying
that he had expressed the opinion that the compapy should
at once have refused all further employment of the laborers
when the men struck, and have employed a new set of men,

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RrPLEY.
Stateient of the case.

which he believed might have been done long before April
26th (the date of his entry),'he proceeded to answer that the
company totally disregarded his said opinions, and wholly
neglected, so far as he could learn, to make any arrangement to substitute new laborers or to renew the business of
quarrying, and being reliably informed and believing that
no arrangement would ever be made with the laborers for their
return to work, and the use and possession of the quarries having
been to all appearanceentirely vacated from the time of the strike
(which was April 5th or 6th), he entered.
The cross-bill, after setting forth the same sort of a general
history, and an account of the disputes that had arisen, &c.,
went on to represent that the marble company were working the quarries to an enormous excess over and above the
quantity authorized or required by the contract of 1850, or
any reasonable or proper expectation of the parties under
the same, and were supplying other parties, and the trade
in gerneral, with great quantities of marble taken from the
quarries, in violation of the rights of Ripley; that the whole
mass and quantity of marble of the kind and description
mentioned in the contract contained on the land, was limited
and not inexhaustible, and that a continuance by the company in their then present rate of exhaustion and supply of
the general market therefrom, would in a short time so exhaust the quarry as to render the perform'ance of the contract
of 1850 impossible, whereby he, the defendant, Ripley, would
be entirely deprived of his beneficial interest in the quarry
arising under the contract, and the whole profit and advantages thereof would be absorbed and exhausted by the company. The cross-bill prayed accordingly that the company
might be decreed to perform specifically the contract by furnishing the marble as therein required, or deliver up the
possession of the quarry and property to the said crosscomplainant, free and discharged 'from all claim, right, or
title which the said company ever had, or then had, in and
to the same; and that in the meantime they be restrained
from operating or working the quarry, or selling any marble
taken therefrom; that they be decreed to pay such damages

MARBLE COMPANY V.

RiPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as the complainant might have sustained in consequence of
their not having supplied his mill with marble as required
by the contracts of 1850 and 1854, and pay the same by a
specified day, and that the quarry be held as security therefor, and in default of such payment the company should be
foreclosed of all equity of redemption or claim in and to
said quarry and property.
The answer to the cross-bill, denying many other allegations, denied upon belief, that the quarry was likely to be
exhausted, at least within a century, by any amount of
work within the power of the company to give, or justified
by their interests, and it insisted that the contract did not
secure to Ripley the exclusive product of the quarry, but
that the company had a right to work it for their own benefit independently of the arrangement; and admitting that
they were taking from the quarry, and were disposing of
more marble than was required to supply Ripley under the
contract.
The grounds upon which the marble company rested their
prayer that the contract might be rescinded and cancelled
were, that Ripley had not performed the duties which it imposed upon him ; that though it wlias, when made, intended
to operate for the equal benefit of both parties, it had become, in the lapse of time, with the increased demand fbr
marble, the greatly enhanced cost of production, and the
entire change in the character and results of the marble
business, grossly unfair and unequal; so much so, indeed,
that the defendant's net receipts under it had become more
than twelve times as much as those of the complainants; to
him, yielding a yearly revenue of $40,000; to Ihem, resulting
in a very great loss on the marble supplied, and a return

barely sufficient to defray the expenses of executing the contract; an inequality which they alleged was not denied, and
was plainly unconscionable; that in addition to this, the
contract made the company partners with Ripley, or his successors, in title to the mill, whether they would or not; and
that, if corporations could not enter into partnership, they
could not purchase the lands subject to the obligation of

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY v. RIPLEY.

349

Statement of the case.

becoming partners, and therefore that the contract restrained
the alienability of the property.
One of the grounds on which Ripley rested his claim to a
decree for specific performance of the contract was a potice
from the marble company, given to him on the 18th of June,
1864, that they would maintain that the facts set forth in

their bill amounted to a permanent breach and violation on his
part of the contract, authorizing them to treat it as rescinded, and
that they therefore rescinded it, asserting that they had always
performed it on their part until it was thus violated and
broken by him.
The Circuit Court, after a hearing, granted an injulnction
in accordance with the prayer of the Rutland Marble Cornpany, restraining the defendants, Ripley and Barnes, from
the further occupation or possession of the premises and
property described in the bill, and from any interference
therewith, and enjoining them against hindering or disturbing the complainants from taking possession of, occupying,
and using the same until the further order of the court. But the
court refused to decree a rescission and cancellation of the
contract itself.
The court also, in effect, decreed a specific performance
of the contract, as prayed in the cross-bill, and made several
decretal orders respecting the manner in which the contract
should be performed, but the injunction asked for in the
cross-bill was denied.
Among the decretal orders was one, that Ripley should
pay over monthly to the company its share of the money received by him from the' marble business; and there was
none, as he by this cross-bill had prayed for, that the court
would enjoin the company from selling and disposing of
marble taken from the quarry. From the decrees above
mentioned, and the decretal orders, appeals were taken to
this court; Ripley, in his appeal, specifying as a second
ground for it, the manner in which, as above stated, he was
required to account with the company; -and as a sixth
ground,

850

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"The omission and refusal of the court to enjoin the company
from selling or disposing of marble taken from the quarry."
The matters considered by the court, accordingly, were:
I. Upo~n the bill by the marble company.
1. Whether the case was one for the injunction prayed
for by the company against Ripley and Barnes.
2. Whether the case was one for the cancellation of the
contract of January 22d, 1850.
II. Upon the cross-bill by Ripley.
1. Whether, it being decided'that the contract.was not to
be cancelled, Ripley was entitled to a decree for specific performance of it by the company.
2. Whether the decretal orders above quoted and objected
to by Ripley were erroneous.
The case, of which the transcript filled 904 printed pages,
was elaborately argued by Messrs. B. R. Curtis and E. J.
Phelpis,for the Rutland Marble Company; and by Messrs. George
F. Edmunds and W. M. .Evarts,'contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The first question presented for our consideration is whether the pleadings and proofs exhibited a proper case for an
injunction upon the defendants, Ripley and Barnes, against
disturbing the complainants in their right to take possession,
occupy, and use the property entered upon by-the said defendants, and against continuing the occupation which they
had commenced of the quarries and other property, real and
personal, of the company. The solution of this depends
upon another question, which is, whether the entry made
by Ripley, through his agent, Barnes, on the 26th day of
April, 1864, was lawful under the circumstances-in which it
was made.
It is to be observed that the contract of January 22, 1850,
between Ripley and Barnes, was in a very practical sense a
contract of partnership, and that to Barnes's position under

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COM'PANY V. IRIPLEY.

851

Opinion of ilie court.

it the complainants have succeeded. By its terms each of
the parties was bound to contribute to a common enterprise.
Each had his own duties to perform. Barnes was to furnish the marble needed for the mill, and Ripley was to
bestow his own labor and care in rhanufacturing it for the
market and selling it. When this had been accomplished
the net proceeds of sale were to be equally divided. Neither
of the parties had a right to'interfere with the specified duties of the other so long as that other discharged his obligations under the contract. But they had a common interest
in the business carried on, quite as truly as if theirs had
been an ordinary partnership. Any unauthorized attempt
by one to oust the other from the position and rights assigned
to. him by the contract was, therefore, not only a breach of
their agreement, but a fraud upon the relation they had assumed to each other. Such a wrong it is the province of a
court of equity to prevent. A chancellor will interfere by
injunction to restrain one partner from violating the rights
of his copartner, even when a dissolution of the partnership
is not necessarily contemplated.*
PriAfacie,-the entry of Ripley upon the quarry property
and the consequent deforcement of the complainants was an
invasion of their rights as owners of the land, and as jointly
interested with him in th6 marble business. The burden is
upon him, therefore, to show that his entry was justifiable.
Has he shown it? Under the reservation in Ripley's deed,
and under the contemporaneous agr.eement, his right to enter
existed only in case Barnes, or his successors in the title,
should fail or. refube to fulfil the conditions and stipulations
of the contract; that is, should fail or refuse to deliver the
marble as required by it. A right to enter for any other
cause is not claimed. After a careful examination of the
evidence we do not find that there had been _ny such failure
on the part of the complainants to deliver marble prior to
April 26, 1864, as justified Ripley in eutering upon their
possession. They were not bound to keep in full supply
* Story's Equity,

669.

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the mill which he then had. The contract had reference to
a supply of the mill as it was in 1850, when its capacity was
less than 150,000 feet per annum. And when, afterwards,
he enlarged his mill so that he could saw 300,000 feet,
nothing in the contract required Barnes, or his alienees, to
keep the enlarged mill supplied. The obligation was only
to furnish 150,000 feet per annum, as it might be wanted to
supply the old mill. Nor did the contract require that any
defined portion of the whole quantity should be delivered at
any specified season of the year. Undoubtedly its spirit
demanded that the deliveries should be reasonable. But it
is in evidence that quarrying marble must be principally in
moderate or warm weather, when there is no frost. It is,
therefore, a reasonable construction that the parties intended
the deliveries should be greatest in the summer and fall.
Yet the evidence is, that the complainants delivered at his
mill, during the months of February, March, and April of
1864, more than 26,000 feet, besides other blocks which he
refused to receive. In fact a considerably greater quantity
was delivered. All this was between February 1st (when
the modification of the contract before mentioned expired)
and the 3d of April. This was in excess of a ratable proportion of what the company was bound to quarry and deliver.
After the 2d of April there was an interruption of deliveries,
caused by a general turn-out of the workmen at the quarries,
of which we shall have more to say hereafter. But what is
most significant and convincing that there was no failure on
the part of the company is Ripley's own sworn answer to
their bill. It appears from what lie himself states in this answer, that the reason for his entry was, not that there had
been any failure or refusal to supply his mill with marble,
so far as he had a right to claim it, but that the marble company disregarded his opinions, and he was apprehensive
they would not be able to induce the laborers to return to
work. It is plain that for such reasons neither the rcsetvatiou in his deed nor he provisions of the contract gave
him any right of entry. His intrusion upon the complainants' possession was, therefore, entirely unjustifiable, and a

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RiPLEY.

353

Opinion of the court.

wrong the continuance of which a court of equity may well
restrain.
We are also of opinion, that his entry was not made in
good faith, merely to supply himself with marble. Very
soon after the modified contract came to an end he set up
claims, some of which, at least, had no foundation in the
contract. On the 15th of February he gave notice that le
claimed a right to divide every lot of blocks, at all times
thereafter, when taken from the quarry referred to in his
deed and in the contract, insisting upon a right to the first
choice; and this, though he had elected forever to take all
his marble from the south opening, which he had required
to be made under the alternative provision of the contract.
This was either claiming inconsistently with his demand for
all his marble from that opening, or it was, in effect, requiring the company to take therefrom twice as much as was
necessary to supply the 150,000 feet for his mill. When the
demand was resisted it was renewed, though without right.
Differences of opinion also arose between the parties respecting Ripley's obligation to receive particular kinds of marble, respecting his right to demand payment for unloading
it at his mill, and respecting his obligations to pay for quarrying and hauling. We do not enter now upon any consideration of the inquiry which of the parties was right. It
is sufficient to notice that the'e were differences. It was
while they existed, early in April, the strike of the laborers
occurred. The evidence establishes beyond any reasonable
doubt, that Ripley advised the agents of the company to hold
out against the strike, and that when told the mill contracts
made a difficulty, he said he would rather go without marble
six months, or a year, than that the company should submit
to the strikers. Yet at this time when giving this advice
and making these professions, he was preparing secretly to
make an entry on the property. Ie was having drills made
at least a week or ten days before he made his entry at night,
concealing the purpose for which they were made, and his
design to enter. When told that he was aiding the stvike,
as the men understood be was intending to set them at work,
23
voL. x.

MARhLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. (3t.

Opinion of the court.

he replied the men did not know but that he was going to
quarry somewhere else. Meanwhile he was himself refusing,
or at least neglecting to pay what he was bound to pay, at
the time when it was due. It is impossible to read the evidence without being convinced that he intended to secure
the possession of the property by surprising the complainants, and thereby force then to assent to his demands and
his interpretation of the contract. Such being the conclusions to be drawn from the evidence, we cannot doubt that
the injunction decreed by the Circuit Court was correctly
awarded.
It was, however, too broad. It restrained the defendants,
Ripley and Barnes, not only from the further occupation or
possession of the premises and property described in the
bill, and from any interference therewith, but it enjoined
them against hindering or disturbing the complainants from
taking possession of, occupying and using the same, until
the farther order of the court. The effect of this is to deny to
Ripley the right of entry reserved in his deed, and forbid
his exercising' it, though the complainants should hereafter
wholly refuse to deliver any marble, unless the court by a
future order shall allow an entry. This is probably more
than was intended. The decree should be modified so as
only to enjoin against an entry for any cause heretofore
existing, leaving Ripley to enjoy his reserved right hereafter
entirely untrammelled.
We proceed next to inquire whether there is any sufficient
reason for decreeing a cancellation of the contract of January
22, 1850, as prayed for by the marble company. This is a
call for an exercise of the highest chancery power, a power
most frequently exerted in cases of fraud, accident, or mistake. The grounds upon which the company rest their
claim that the contract may be decreed to be rescinded and
cancelled are, that Ripley has not performed the duties
which it imposed upon him ; that though it was, when made,
intended to operate for the equal benefit of both parties, it
has become, in the progress of time, oppressive and burden-

Dec. 1870.]

355

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.
Opinion of the court.

some to the complaintnts, or, as they denominate it, unconscionable ; that it makes them partners with Ripley, or his
successors in title to the mill, whether they will or not; and
that, if corporations cannot enter into partnership, they cannot purchase the lands subject to the obligation of becoming
partners, and therefore the contract restrains the alienability
of the property.
Before proceeding to a consideration of these it is proper
to remark that the agreement is inseparable from the deed
for the land made by Ripley to Barnes. They were m t.le
at the same time, and they are parts of one arrangement..
What is asked, therefore, is, not to rescind an entire contract, but to strike qut of it a part which has become onerous
to one of the parties. It is clear that the rights secured to
Ripley by the agreement were a part of the consideration
for his grant of the land, and so it was understood at the
time his deed was made. If there were nothing else to
show this, it is made apparent by the reservation in the
deed of a right of entry to secure the fulfilment of the stipulations of the agreement. But the deed was an executed
contract. It conveyed the title tothe grantee. . If, therefore, the agreement is rescinded by a decree of the court,
the consideration of the grant is taken from the vendor after
his conveyance has taken effect, and yet his grant is enforced. It is believed that such action by a court of equity
is quite unprecedented. It has been ruled that when a party
seeking to set aside a conveyance made by him has received
part of'the consideration, he must return it before a court
of equity will cancel the conveyance,* That one party to
an executory contract, partly executed, has violated his engagements, is generally no sufficient reason for a decree by
a court of equity, at the suit of the other party, that the contract shall be annulled. Certainly it is not in the.'present
case. If the contract has been broken by Ripley, the marble
company has an adequate remedy at law. Nor is it any
reason for rescinding the contract that it has become more
*

Miller v. Cotten, 5 Georgia, 341 ; Story's Equity,

707.

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

burdensome in its operation upon the complainants than
was anticipated. If it be, indeed, unequal now, if it has
become unconscionable, that might possibly be a reason why
a court should refuse to decree its specific performance; but
it has nothing to do with the question whether it should be
ordered to be cancelled. It is not the province of a court of
equity to undo a bargain because it is hard. Nor have the
other reasons assigned in support of the complainants' prayer
for cancellation any more weight in view of the circumstances of the case. The marble company have, by their
own voluntary act, placed themselves in the position they
occupy. With a full knowledge of the reservation in Rip.ley's deed to Barnes, and of the contract, the performance
of which the reservation was intended to secure, they purchased the quarries. They purchased expressly subject to
the rights guaranteed to Ripley, and they undertook with
their grantors to perform the promises Barnes had made, so
long as they held the land. At the time when they purchased, the contract had been in operation for years, and
they knew its effect. It is fair to presume that the burden
of the contract was considered in fixing the price they paid.
They are, therefore, not in a condition to ask for its rescission, and the Circuit Court rightly refused to decree a cancellation.
The next question is, whether Ripley, the defendant, was
entitled, upon his cross-bill, to a decree against the marble
company for a specific performance of the contract. The
court below substantially directed such performance, and
from that decree the marble company have appealed, and
they now urge that the contract, though supposed to be fair
and equal when made, has, in the lapse of time, and by the
operation ofi unforeseen causes, arising from changed circumstances, become exceedingly unfair, unreasonable, and
unconscionable, so that a decree for its specific performance
would tend to their oppression and ruin. It may be doubted,
however, whether the hardship of the contract is any greater
than must have been contemplated when it was made. It is

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RiPLEY.
Opinion of the court.

not unconscionable beca'ise Ripley obtains a larger profit
from it than was at first expected, or because the other party
obtains less. Those were contingencies, the possibility of
which might have been foreseen. It could not have escaped
the thought of the contracting parties that the expense A
quarrying might possibly increase, and that the expense of
sawing and preparing for market might either increase or
diminish in the progress of time. Of that they took their
chances. Besides, it is by no means clear that a court of
equity will refuse to decree the specific performance of a
contract, fair when it was made, but which has become a hard
one by the force of subsequent circumstances or changing
events. Mr. Fry, in his work on Specific Performance,*
asserts that "the question of the hardship of a contract is
generally to be judged of at the time at which it is entered
into; that if it be then fair and just, it will be immaterial
that it may, by the force of subsequent circumstances or
change of events, have become less beneficial to one party,
except when these subsequent events have been in some way
due to the party who seeks the performance of the contract."
Judge Story, indeed,t states the rule somewhat differently,
and there are some cases that support his statement; but the
rule as stated by Mr. Fry must be applicable to contracts
that do not look to completed performance within a defined
or reasonable time, but contemplate a continuous performance, extending through an indefinite number of years, or
perpetually.
There are other objections, however, to a decree for a
specific performance in this case which are more serious.
Such a decree is not a matter of right. It rests in the sound
discretion of the court, and generally it will not be made in
favor of a party who has himself been in default. In Story's
Equitable Jurisprudence,J it is said that "in cases of covenants and other contracts, where a specific performance is
sought, it is often material to consider how far the reciprocal
*Page

116, and see entire chapter 6.

f Equity Jurisprudence,

760 and 776.

:

736.

858

MARBLE

COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

obligations of the party seeking the relief have been fairly
and fully performed. For, if the latter have been disregarded, or they are incapable of being substantially performed on the part of the party so seeking relief, or from
their nature they have ceased to have any just application
by subsequent events, or it is against public policy to enforce.
them, courts of equity will not interfere." To the same
effect are Smith's Principles of Equity;* Thompson v. Tod,t
Lewis v. Wood,t and many other cases. Applying these
principles to the case in hand, it would appear that the conduct of the cross-complainant has not been such as to justify
the court in decreeing a specific performance, at his suit,
against the marble company. Without relying upon his
alleged unfounded claims set up from time to time, or his
alleged refusals or failures to make the payments due from
him at the times required by the contract, or his alleged
comfort given to the turn-out of the workmen,- and his
advice that the company should resist it, his unlawful and
unwarranted entry and ouster of the..marble company was
such an invasion of the contract as leaves him no'standing
as a complainant asking for its performance in a court of
equity.
Another serious objection to a decree for a specific performance is found in the peculiar character of the contract
itself, and in the duties which it requires of the owners of
the quarries. These duties are continuous. They involve
skill, personal labor, and cultivated judgment. It is, in
effect, a.personal contract to deliver marble of certain kinds,
and in blocks of a kind, that the court is incapable of determining whether they accord with the contract or not. The
agreement being for a perpetual supply of marble, no decree
the court can make will end the controversy. If performance
be decreed, the case must remain in court forever, and the
court to the end of time may be called upon to determine,
not only whether the prescribed quanktity of marble has been
220.
: 4,Howard's Mississippi, 86.
*Page

t Peters, Circuit Court, 380.

Dec.

1870.]

MARBLE

ICOMPANY

V. RIPLEY.

Opinion of the court.

delivered, but whether every block was from the right place,
whether it was sound, whether it was of suitable size, or shape
or proportion. Meanwhile the parties may be constantly
changing. The marble company' are liable so long as they
hold the land, and Ripley's rights exist only while he holds
the mill. It is manifest that the court cannot superintend
the execution of such a decree. It is quite impracticable.
And it is certain that equity *ill not interfere to enforce
part of a contract, unless that part is clearly severable from
the remainder.* Many of the dificulties in the way of
decreeing specific performance of a contract, requiring, as
this does, continuous, personal action, and running through
an indefinite period of time, are well stated in The Port
Clinton Railroad Company v. The Cleveland and bledo Railroad Compainy.
Another reason why specific performance should not be
decreed in this case is found in the want of mutuality. Such
performance by Ripley could not be decreed or enforced at
the suit of the marble company, for the contract expressly
stipulates that he may relinquish the business and abandon
the contract at any time on giving one year's notice. And
it is a general principle that when, from personal incapacity,
the nature of the contract, or any other cause, a contract is
incapable of being enforced against one party, that party is
equally incapable of enforcing it specifically against the
other, though its execution in the latter way might in itself
b.e free from the difficulty attending its execution in the
former.1
But what is a still more satisfactory reason for withholding a decree for specific performance is, that the party who
asks for it has an en'tirely adequate remedy provided by the
reservation in his deed, and by the contract itself. In addition to his remedy by suit at law, he has a right of entry
and the privilege of supplying himself with .marble, as much
as he may want, if the owners of the land do not fulfil the
Ogden v. Fossick, 9 Jurist, N. S. 288.
: Fry on Specific Performance,

286.

t 13 Ohio, 544.

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

conditions and stipulations of the contract. He may take
marble without making payment for it, and in case of such
entry he may hold possession until the tenants of the fee are
ready and willing to carry out the agreement, and until he
has been compensated for all his expenditure. This is a
remedy more adequate and full than any decree for specific
performance could give him, and it renders such interference
of a court of equity entirely unnecessary.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the Circuit Court
should not have decreed performance in specie of the contract, but should have left the cross-complainant to his action
at law, or to the remedy reserved in his deed.
It is true that the marble company, on the 18th of June,
1864, gave notice to Ripley that they would claim that the
facts set forth in their bill amounted to a permanent breach
and violation on his part of the contract, authorizing them
to treat it as rescinded, and that they therefore rescinded it,
asserting that they had always performed it on their part
until it was thus violated and broken by him. But this was
after his wrongful entry, which certainly relieved them for a
time from delivering marble, and the notice in no way interferes with any remedy he may have at law, or with any
righthe has to enter under the reservation in his deed.
The decree, so far as it orders specific performance, will
therefore be reversed, as also all the decretal orders that
direct the mode of performance.
We have thus disposed of all the questions raised by the
appeal of the complainants, The Rutland Marble Company,
and of most of those raised by the appeal of the defendant,
Ripley. Two or three questions remain to be considered.
It is sufficient to say, in answer to the second specification
of his appeal, that we do not perceive that he was required
to pay the company's share of the money received by him
from the marble business any more rapidly than the contract, giving to it a reasonable construction, demanded.
In the sixth specification it is averred that the decree is

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE

COMPANY V.

RIPLEY.

Opinion of the court.

erroneous, in that it omits to order and direct that The Rutland Marble Company, their agents, servants, and assigns,
be enjoined from selling or disposing of marble taken from
said quarry of said company. Though the appeal is in these
broad terms, it is presumed the appellant does not mean to
be understood as claiming that the marble company should
be enjoined against selling as much marble as the quantity
furnished by them for the mill. If this is not so, then the
construction he would have given to the contract is that the
tenants of the fee must quarry every year 300,000 feet, and
deliver one-half thereof at the mill, leaving the remainder
unsold and undisposed of. This is a construction so unreasonable and so at variance with the words of the contract,
that it needs only mention to show its inadmissibility. Assuming, then, it to be meant that the court should have
enjoined against a sale of marble from the land greater in
quantity than that which was required by the contract to be
delivered at the mill, we are of opinion the claim cannot be
maintained. It has been argued in support of it that the
evidence shows the quarry to be exhaustible within a defipite number of years; that the contract contemplated a perpetual supply for the mill, or a supply so long as the marble
shall last, while the quarry shall be worked in the manner
contemplated and prescribed by it; and hence that taking
out marble and disposing of it in greater quantities than the
mill requires, with a right of choice of blocks in Ripley, is
an invasion of his right.
The argument is faulty in several particulars. It assumes
that the contract prescribed a mode of use of the quarries
exclusive of any other. Such is not the agreement. It bears
upon its face the evidence that supplies of marble to other
consumers than Ripley's mill was contemplated. Thece
certainly is no express restriction of the quantity which te
owners of the land may take out, and restriction upon the
absolute rights of ownership in fee is not to be raised by
mere implication. When Ripley required, under the last
provision of the agreement, all his marble to be furnished
from the south opening on the lot, and when, in obedience

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to his demand, the opening was made by Barnes, it should
require unarmbiguous language to satisfy a court that Barnes
and his successors in the title were excluded from taking
marble from any other opening foir the purpose of sale.
The argument also risapprehends the nature of such a
right as Ripley's, even though it be conceded that it was intended to provide fbr a perpetual enjoyment of a marble
supply. Neither the contract nor the reservation in his
deed gave him a corporeal interest in the marble in situ.
It was not a grant to him of the marble, or a grant of a right
to quarry and take it all. If his interest was real in any
sense, which may be doubted, it was incorporeal. Of course
it was not exclusive of the right of the owners of the land
to take marble on their own account ad libitlan. In Lord
Mountjoy's case, reported by Godbolt,* by Lconard,t in
Coke Littleton,t by Moore, and more fully by Anderson,I
a leading case, the words of the reservaion were:
"Provided always, and it is covenanted, granted, concluded
and agreed between the said parties to this indenture, and the
said John Brown and Charles (the grantees), and their heirs
covenant and grant to and with the said Lord Mountjoy, his
heirs and assigns, by these presents, in form following, that is to
say, that it shall be lawful for the said Lord Mountjoy, his heirs
and assigns, at all times hereafter, to have, take, and dig inand
upon the heath ground of the premises, from time to time, sufficient ores, heath, turves, and other necessaries for the making
of alum and copperas."
Here was a reservation from grantees and their heirs to a
grantor, his heirs and assigns, quite as larg6'as in the present
case. Yet it was held an incorporeal hereditament, and not
a grant of an exclusive right. It was likened to a grant
of common sans nombre, leaving the grantors a right to dig
and take ore, though their so doing might exhaust it. Chetham v. Willianson, is another case equally decisive to the
same effect. Other decisions asserting the same doctrine
Case 24.
SPage 174.

t 4 Leonard, 147.
I Page 807.

1 Page 104.
4 East, 469.

iDec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V, RIPLEY.
Opinion of the court.

are at hand: Caldwell v. Fulton,* Johnston Iron Company v.
The Cambria Iron Company,t Gloninger v. The Franklin Coal
Company.1 In all of them the covenants ran with the land.
The grants were of undoubted real interests. They contemplated a perpetual supply to the grantees as plainly as it
was contemplated in this case. The rights of the grantees
were not limited, as here, to any defined quantity, and yet it
was held they did not'interfere with the right of the grantors
to take ore, coal, &c., from the property out of' which the
incorporeal interests issued, and to take it without stint.
The appeal of the cross-complainant cannot therefore be
sustained.
Nor, under the circumstances of the case, can the marble
company be decreed to account for failures to supply the
marble required by the contract to be delivered at the mill,
if there have been such failures. 'Holding as we do that
there can be no decree for a specific performance, and that
Ripley is not entitled to an injunction against selling marble
from the quarry, the substantial basis of the defendant's
cross-bill fails, and having disturbed the plaintifis' possession
wrongfully, and thereby interfered with their power to perform the contract, he is not in a situation to invoke equitable
aid. If he has any claim to damages for a breach of the
contract, it must be asserted at law, and there his remedy
is complete.
It remains only to add, 'what must now be apparent, that
that part of the decree which directed Ripley to pay the
taxable costs, except such as accrued from the portion of the
complainants' bill which sought to annul the contract, was
correct.
DEcREE REVERSED, and the cause remitted with directions
to enter a decree in accordance with the opinion above given.
The costs of the appeals to be divided, and one-half be paid
by each of the parties.
* 31 Pennsylvania State, 482.

f 8 Id. 241.

$ 55 Id. 9.

