Dee. 1870.]

EX PARTE GRAHAM.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

Ex PARTE GRAHAM.
Proceedings to confiscate real estate under the act of July 17th, 1862, entitled " An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion,
to seize and confiscate the property of rebels," &c., are not " proceedings in admiralty," although the act declares that they "shall be in rem,
and conform as near as may be to proceedings in admiraity or in revenue cases."
Accordingly, no w~it of prohibition from this court to a District Court lies
in the case of such proceedings; the writ being confined bytheJudiciari
Act to cases where the District Courts are proceeding as courts of ad.
miralty.

ON petition for a writ of prohibition to the District Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana.

Mr. Durant,for the petitioner; Mr. Cushing, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
A rule was granted by this court that the district judge
show cause why a writ of prohibition should not issue agreeably to the prayer of the petitioners.
The petition upon which the rule was founded discloses,
so far as it is necessary to state them', the following facts:
The United States instituted in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, under
the act of Congress approved July 17th, 1862, entitled "An
act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion,
to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other
purposes," proceedings in confiscation against sixteen. lots
of ground, the property of Duncan Kenner. The lots were
condemned as forfeited to the United States and ordered to
be sold by the marshal. This was accordingly done. Grahiam and Day became the purchasers of certain portions of
the property. They complied with the conditions of the
sate and received deeds from the marshal. The court ordered the proceeds of the sale, less the costs, to be paid over
to the United States. Subsequently, on the 9th of February,

EX PARTE GRAHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1869, Kenner, as is alleged for the purpose of clouding the
title of the purchasers, and of annoying and harassing them,
filed in said court what purports to be a libel of review,
wherein he prayed that the decree in confiscation condemningthe property and ordering it to be sold, should be reviewed and reversed for errors of law apparent on the face
of the record.
On the 29th of November, 1869, for the same purposes as
is alleged, he filed, by leave of the court, an amendment to
his, original libel of review, whereby and by process duly
served upon them, Graham and Day were made parties to
the proceeding.
In addition to the prayer of the original libel the amendment prays that they should render an account of the rents
and profits of the property while in their possession, and
that they should be required respectively to pay to Kenner
such sums as should be found due to him.
The district judge, it is alleged, holds that the proceeding
in confiscation was a proceeding in admiralty, and that it
was therefore competent for him to entertain the libel of
review and to exercise the jurisdiction which it invoked.
The jurisdiction is denied by the petitioners and a remedy
is prayed for by a writ of prohibition.
The district judge has filed an answer to the rule, but the
view which we take of the case renders its consideration
unnacessary.
Our jurisdiction is specific, and limited. It is defined by
the Constitution and laws of the United States. I We can
exerciseinone but what is conferred by one or the other.
The thirteenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789* authorizes this court " to issue writs of prohibition to the District Courts when proceeding as courts of admiralty."
The question whether the District Court, in entertaining
the libel of review, is proceeding as a court of admiralty,
meets us, therefore, at the threshold of. the case before us.
It is only in such cases that it is conipetent for this court to
1 Stat. at Largei 81.

Dec.

1870.]

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

543

Syllabus.

issue the writ.* The seventh section of the act of 1862,t
under which the decree sought to be reviewed was made,
provides that proceedings against the property seized shall
be in rem, and "shall conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in admiralty or in revenue cases." It is too clear
to admit of doubt that the original case was not one in admiralty, and it is equally clear that the proceeding sought
to be prohibited is- not within that category.
The suppleiental case is an elongation of the original
case, and necessarily of the same nature and jurisdictional
character.
These conclusions are fatal to the case of the petitioners.
If the District Court shall err in the proceedings upon the
libel of review, the remedy of the petitioners will be by a
writ of error from the Circuit to the District Court, and, if
need be, finally by a like writ from this court to the Circuit
Court.
The rule is discharged and the
MOTION DENIED.

BALTIMORE

v.

BALTIM01I

RAILROAD.

t. A railroad company wanting to borrow $4,500,000 to complete its unfinished railroad, a city, its chief stockholder, and interested in the
completion, agreed to lend to it the sum. The arrangement resolved
on and carried out was this:

The city was to issu3 and sell, from time to time, as the railroad needed.
the money, its own bonds (having about 35 years to run), for $4,5600,000,
at a price, however, not below par; and was to issue to the commissioners
of its sinking fund similar bonds for $500,000, which, wita the constant
accumulations of interest (to be invested in the purchae of the city

* debt), were to constitute a sinking fund for payment of the whole debt
at maturity. Any premiums which the city might get by the sale of
* United States v. Peters, 8 Dallas, 121; Ex parte Christy, 3 Howard, 292.

t 12 Stat at Large, 689.
$ The Union Insurance Co. v. United States, 6 Wallace, 759; United

States v. Armstrong's Foundry, lb. 766; United States v. Hart, lb. 770p
The Sarah, 8 Wheaton, 391.

