DEAN V.

NLSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

count'for money had and received, on the ground that the
rule ex xquo et bono would be applicable, as -the bank, having
assented to the order and communicated its assent to the
paymaster, would be considered as holding the money thus
appropriated for the plaintiff's use, and therefore, under an
implied promise to him to pay it on demand.
It is hardly necessary to say, that the check in question
having been drawn on a public depositary, by an officer of
the government, in favor of a public creditor, cannot change
the rights of the parties to this suit. The check was commercial paper, and subject to the laws which govern such
paper, and it can make no difference whether the parties to
it are p)rivate persons or public agents.*
As soon as the deposit was made to the credit of Lawler
as paymaster, the bank was authorized to deal with it as its
own, and became answerable to Lawler for the debt in the
same manner that it would have been had the deposit been
placed to his personal credit.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

DEAN V. NELSON.
1. A sale of stock in a company at its par value, the consideration to be
paid out of the net receipts of earnings of the stock, received quarterly
by the company, and a note given therefor, with the condition that the
principal should become due if the instalments were not regularly paid;
h-eld a valid sale under the circumstances.

2. Such a condition in the note is not a penalty, but is of the substance of
the 'contract.
3. A mortgage to secure such note being given upon the grantee's interest.
as a stockholder in the property of the company, the equity of redemp,tion is not extinguished by proceedings to foreclose the same during the
war, when such proceedings were taken within the Union lines, whilst
the defendants were absent in the Confederate lines and were prohibited
from entering the Union lines.

The United States v. Bank of Metropolis, 15 Peters, 877.

Dec. 1869.]

DEAN V. NELSON.
Statement of the case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
West Tennessee; the case having been thus:
Thompson Dean, of Cincinnati, prior to the breaking out
of the late rebellion, was the owner of a large amount of'
capital stock in the Memphis Gaslight Company, a corporation of Tennessee, situated and doing business at Memphis,
in that State. In May, 1861, he transferred his entire stock
to one Pepper, secretary of the company, to enable him
(Pepper) to make some disposition of it in view of approaching hostilities.
On the 11th day of June, 1861, Pepper sold and transferred fifty shares, of $100 each, to a certain Nelson, then
of Memphis, at par, receiving for the consideration Nelson's note, under seal, dated June 11th, 1861, whereby be
promised to pay to the order of Pepper $5000, with interest
at six per cent. per annum out of the net receipts of earnings
Oii the sum of $5000 of the capital stock of the company,
payable in quarterly instalments, the interest being first
paid and balance of said net receipts then to be applied
upon the principal, which instalments should amount to
such sum of money as should be equal to the quarterly net
receipts of earnings on $5000 of the capital stock of the
company; it was further expressed in the note that it was
given for the purchase-money pf $5000 of the. capi tal stock
of the company, sold and transferred to Nelson by Pepper;
and that if Nelson failed to pay any of the instalments quarterly, as aforesaid, after the receipt by the company of said
net earnings, then the full sum of $5000, with interest, less
interest and instalments paid, should become due and
payable.
To secure the payment of this note Nelson, on the same
day, executed to Pepper a paper, in the ordinary form of a
mortgage, conveying to Pepper, his heirs and assigns, the
following real and personal. property, viz., " so much of
Nelson's individual interest, right, title, and estate in the
property and premises of and belonging to the Memphis
Gaslight Company as should be represented by and equal
to the $5000 of capital stock of said company at par," then

DEAN V. NELSON.

[SUP.'Ct.

Statement of the case.

describing the real and personal property which the company owned, being gas works and other property in Memphis, and concluding with the usual condition, to be void on
the payment of the note according to the tenor and effect
thereof. This instrument was duly acknowledged and recorded in the registry of mortgages for Shelby County. On
the 20th day of July, 1861, Pepper sold and transferred to
Nelson one hundred and fifty-four additional shares of said
company, at the par value of $15,400, and received a similar
note and instrument for the consideration thereof. It appeared from the evidence in the case that Pepper sold this
stock to Nelson and. the remainder of Dean's stock to other
persons, when he did, under apprehension that it would be
confiscated by the Confederate authorities,.as was threatened
to be done, and from a desire to leave Memphis (which he
soon afterwards did do, going north) for his own personal
safety, Bdt Nelson swore that he made the purchase of the
stock in good faith, and that he received it without any trust
or pledge for its return.
The war soon began to rage with severity, and all intercourse between the Sthtes in rebellion (including Tennessee)
and the other States of the Union was not only interrupted,
but was prohibited by President Lincoln's proclamation of
August 16th, 1861, made in pursuance of the act of Congress
of the 13th of July previous.
Nelson continued to reside at Memphis, within the Confederate lines, and received the regular quarterly dividends
on the two hundred and four shares of stock, but did not
and could not make any payment to Pepper or to Dean, to
whom Pepper assigned the notes and mortgages, they both
being within the Union lines. The amount of dividends
thus received by Nelson was $3672.
.Onthe 1st of June, 1862, Nelson transferred one hundred
and ninety-four shares of the stock to Miriam Nelson, his
wife, having previously transferred ten shares to a certain
Benjamin May. Both transfers were without consideration,
except that the object of the transfer to May was to make
him a director, and the professed object of the transfer to

Dec. 1869.]

DEAN V. NELSON.
Statement of the case.

Nelson's wife was to make her a separate provision for maintenance.
On the 6th of June, 1862, the Federal forces entered
the
city of Memphis, and held military possession of that part
of Tennessee until the close of the war. Dean visited Memphis during the summer and autumn of 1862, and saw Nelson
there, who failed to make any payment on the notes. Nelson
swore in the proceeding below, that Dean refused to receive
any payment, alleging that the stock was absolutely forfBeitebd&
le failure to pay. Dean swore that he asked
Nelson what he proposed to do about the payment of the
net earnings which be had received, and that Nelson answered that he was not disposed to pay it, because he might
have to pay it again to the Confederate government. From
the evidence in the case this court expressed itself as inclined to believe that this ground was assumed by Nelson,
and that he did not make an unequivocal tender of the
money due, and whilst it admitted that it was probably true
that Dean insisted- that the stock was forfeited, it was not
satisfied that his conduct was such as to obviate the necessity of a tender by Nelson if the latter wished to prevent
the principal from becoming due. At this time Nelson was
allowed to remain peaceably within the Union lines, and
there was no reason why he shopld not have paid the money
to Dean.
On the 5th of April, 1863, Nelson, with his family, was
ordered to remove south of the lines of the United States
forces, and not to return. This order was made in retalia.
tion for some outrages committed by guerillas in the vicinity.
In pursuance of it-Nelson and his family removed within
the Confederate lines, and remained therein during the remainder of the war; and were not permitted to re-enter
Memphis, although Nelson, at one time, requested perinission to do so. The other complainant, May, was within the
Confederate lines during the entire contest.
On the 25th of April, 1863, General Veatch, then commandingthe military district of Memphis, by a special order,
established and organized a court or civil commission for
YOL. X.

11

DEAN

v.

NELSON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the hearing and determination of all complaints and suits
instituted by loyal citizens for the collection of debts, enforcement of contracts, prevention of frauds, recovery of
the possession of property, and generally to do whatever can
be done by a court deriving its powers from military authority. Before this court or civil commission, on the 1st
day of September, 1863, Dean filed a petition setting forth
the fact of the sale of the stock to Nelson, that Nelson had
given a note, and to secure the payment of said note had
executed and delivered mortgages on all the interest of said
Nelson in said company, represented by said stock, which
mortgages were recorded, &c.; and praying for the foreclos re of the "said mortgages," and sale of the two hundred
and four shares of stock, in order to raise. the amount due
on the notes. Nelson and wife, and May, were made defendants, but were returned "_Not found;" and publication
of notice to them to appear was made in accordance with
the laws of Tennessee existing prior to the rebellion. No
appearance being effected, a decree was made, execution
issued, and the stock was sold by the marshal on the 23d
day of October, 1863, to one Hanlin, and was subsequently
transferred to him on the books of the company by the sec.
retary, pursuant to an order of the civil commission. Hanlin
immediately transferred the stock to Dean. From that time
till June, 1865, Dean drew the dividends on the stock.
In the month just named, Nelson, his wife, and May, filed
a bill in the court below, praying, in substance, that the
stock might be decreed to belong to them, and that Dean
might account for all the dividends received by him, to be
applied to the payment of the notes, &c., and fbr general

irelief.
Dean, in his answer, set up and insisted upon two grounds
of defence:
First, the forfeiture of the condition of the mortgage,
which, under the circumstances of the case, and from the
unconscionable nature of the transaction, he insisted should
* be held to be an absolute forfeiture, without benefit of redemption; in other words, that the instrument should be

Dec. 1869.]

DEAN V. NELSON.

163

Statement of the case.

regarded as a conditional assignment or transfer, and not as
a mortgage.
Secondly, he set up the proceedings before the civil commission, by which, as he contended, even if the instrument
were a mortgage, all equity of redemption in the stock was
foreclosed. The defendants, Nelson, his wife, and May, on
the contrary, insisted that the paper was a mere mortgage;
that the condition in the notes making the principal due if
the instalments were not regularly paid, was in the nature
6f a penalty, and should not have been enforced in an equitable proceeding; that the court or civil commission was
illegal and without authority; that it never had any jurisdiction of the person of the appellants, nor of the property
attempted to be foreclosed; that the existence of the war,
and the residence of the appellees within the Confederate
lines, forbade any legal proceedings against them or their
property; that, therefore, they had been illegally dispossessed of the latter, and were entitled to have it restored
to them without conditions; and, finally, that Dean was accountable to them for the dividends received by him, to be
credited on the notes.
The court below decreed that Dean should transfer to
Mrs. Nelson, for her sole and separate use, one hundred and
ninety-four shares of the stock, and to May ten shares, so as
to restore the-stock to them respectively, as they had it prior
to the decree of the civil commission divesting it out of them.
And that a master should take and stateAn account of what amount of dividends had been declared and paid on the said two hundred and four shares
since the sale to Nelson by Pepper, and when, how, and to
whom they were paid:
And an account between Nelson and Dean, as assignee of
Pepper, which should show the amount of principal and interest of the notes executed by Nelson to Pepper, for the
two hundred and four shares, with all amounts of dividends
and profits received on them by Dean, applied as credits according to the laws of Tennessee, as to the application of
partial payments, and showing what balance, if any, was now

DEAN

v.

N ELS0ON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

due upon the said obligations, or what balance, if any, was
due from Dean, after paying the said obligations in full.
From this decree Dean took an appeal here.

Mr. Hlolman, for the appellant:
The assignments of stock by Pepper to N~elson were made
without any consideration whatever. There was no mutuality in the contracts. They imposed no obligation on Nelson. His agreemeht to pay for the s ock out of his own net
earnings was not a valuable consideration for its assignment to him. Pepper acted under what was, practically,
duress; under an influence which disturbed his judgment,
and deprived him of the capacity to act calmly; and this
condition of mind was brought about by the prospect of a
rebellion; by the acts of traitors, with whom Nelson was
doubtless himself in concert. Is he to profit by a profitable
contract obtained by him at such a moment? Certainly,
if this contract were executory, equity could not, under the
decision in this court of Dorsey v. Packwood,* enforce it.
But Dean, without fraud on his part, has, through the decree
of the military court, got the legal title to the stock in his
hands, and the other side come in to ask the aid of equity.
In such a case the court will consider the original contract,
its fairness, and the consideration on which it was founded, in
determining whether the party asking relief is in equity entitled to it, and the court will refuse its aid, as in case of a
bill for specific performance, if the original contract, if executory, ought not to have been enforced.
These instruments were not mortgages, but were absolute
conveyances of the stock with defeasance, to be null and
void if the conditions were performed, but to be absolute
upon default. The condition of paying over dividends re
ceived has been broken. The conveyances, therefore, have
become absolute, and all of Nelson's title has been divested,
and vested in Pepper, and in Dean, his assignee, even without reference to the decree of the civil commission. Cer* 12 Howard, 126.

Dec. 1869.]

DEAN

v. NELSON.

Argument for the appellant.

tainly, in view of the unconscionable character of the bargain
on Nelson's part, this is the light in which the court must
consider the instruments.
We assume, of course, that whatever the instruments
were, they operated on shares of stock. Nelson, indeed,
had nothing else on which they could operate.
If prior to June 6th, 1862, Nelson could pretend to be
excused from paying the dividends he had received by reason of the hostile military power, which he had himself
doubtless contributed to organize, between the city of Memphis and Cincinnati, the domicile of Dean, no such excuse
could avail after the 6th of June, 1862, when the Federal
forces took possession of Memphis, or when he met Dean
in Memphis, in the autumn of that year. And, considered
as contracts, time was clearly of their essence.
Even if the instalments are to be regarded as mortgages,
still upon the failure of Nelson to fulfil his contracts, if he
possessed any right or interest in this stock, it was only a
right in equity to redeem; and a court of equity will not aid
a party to redeem, and relieve him from the consequence
of his default, when he seeks thereby to obtain the benefit
of an unconscionable contract, which, if executory, a court
of equity would not enforce.
But a right of redemption arises, in any case, but from the
payment or tender of payment of the debt. Here Nelson
and May, still retaining the $3672 of dividends received on
this stock, without payment or tender to Dean of that sum,
or of any portion of the debts, both long since due by the
terms of the contracts, seek by their bill to be reinvested
with the title to the stock. The clain set up is against
equity and good conscience.
But, independently of this, the decree of the civil commission affords a judicial bar to this' ill. That a military
commander, in a conquered district, in which the civil authority is overthrown or suspended, may, to aid him in the
protection of private rights and to preserve civil order, establish agencies of civil government, and among them courts
of justice, is scarcely open to discussion. The humane prin-

DEAN v. N ELSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

ciples of modern international law not only recognize this
power in a military commander, but would seem to demand
its exercise, thus ameliorating as far as may be the severitios
of military law. The duty of the Federal government to
protect the rights of all of its loyal citizens rendered the
application of those enlightened principles of international
law to the districts of country under military occupation in
the late war imperative. General Veatch, commanding the
military district of Memphis, a cohmercial city of sixty
thousand people, with intimate commercial 'relations with
many' of the loyal States of the Union, was not only authorized, but was bound to establish in that city, while held
by force of arms, such a tribunal. The validity of the proceedings of such tribunals, established by military power,
seems to be sustained by many decisions in the courts of
this country.*

Mr. P. Phillips, contra; a brief of Messrs. Kortrecht and
Craft being also filed:
1. Even if this were a bill for the specific performance of
an executory contract it would be maintained; for it is not
necessary that a consideration should be adequate, but only
that it be valuable. The parties themselves are the best
judges of the adequacy, and, therefore, inadequacy will not
be an answer in equity to the prayer for specific performance, if not so gross as to prove fraud or imposition. But
we here stand on an executed contract, and ask relief only to
enforce the rights which pertain to it. The distinction between the two classes of cases is elementary.t Where in
such a contract there is neither fraud, accident, nor mistake,
however absurd the stipulations, the contract will be enforced. In those cases where the inequality of the bargain
* Jecker v. Montgomery, 18 Howard, 116; Cross v. Harrison, 16 Id. 164;
Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 Id. 176; Hefferman v. Porter (Supreme Court of
Tennessee), American Law Register for January, 1870, 41; Rutledge v.
Fogg, 3 Coldwell, 564; The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 129.
1 Ellison v. Ellison, 6 Vesey, 662, Pulvertoft v. Pulvertoft, 18 1U. 99;
Bunn v. Winthrop, 1 Johnson's Chancery, 337.

Dec. 1869.]

DEAN

V. INELSON.

Argument for the appellee.

is so gross that the mind cannot resist the inference of fraud,
the court interposes, not on the ground of the inequality,
but because from its grossness there arises the most vehement presumption of fraud.* The inadequacy complained
of in this case is, that the payments were to be made only
out of the dividends received from the stock; but as these
dividends were regarded as certain to be made, they were
merely taken as the measure of the payments.
The contract in this case is no doubt an unusual one; but
the condition of the country when it was made, and by
which it was suggested, was unusual; far more unusual than
a contract of such a nature itself.
It is again objected that the complainant is not entitled
to relief, because the sale of the stock was made under circumstances which constituted duress. Admit that these sales
would not have been made if the country had been at peace.
What has that to do with the result? When it was supposed, as for a- short time during the rebellion it was by
some, that Washington would be captured by the rebels,
the stress of that belief forced sales of property at great
sacrifices. The contingencies of the war operated in determining the judgment and action of men; but such considerations, in the absence of fraud or imposition, have not
heretofore been considered as sufficient to avoid a contract
for duress. We do not deal with the question of "free will"
as one of metaphysics. All that the law requires is the exercise of a sane mind, with liberty of action. That Pepper
and Dean were of sound mind and discretion is admitted.
They speculated as to the chances of war. If they had firmly
believed in the defeat of the rebel cause, the sale would not
have been made. That it was made, is but an evidence they
did not so believe.
The force which deprives the party of his free will must
have a direct relation to, and connection with the contract which
is sought to be avoided. Violence, and the rule of a mob, or
the action of the elements, may create such apprehension
* Dunn v. Chambers, 4 Barbour, S. C., 379; Eyre v. Potter, 15 Howard, 60.

DEAN

v.

NELSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

for the safety of property as to induce its sale for an inadequate consideration. But however strong the apprehension,
and however it may sway the mind, the will is still left free,
what to choose, and what to do. The owner may retain his
property, and take the hazard of its destruction, or he may
dispose of his title to others Who have more confidence in
its safety. If his judgment, influenced by fraud or imposition, induces him to select the latter course, this is the exercise of flee will. He cannot in legal parlance assert that
he was forced to enter into the contract. If Pepper had
made the sale in Cincinnati, and to one of its citizens, with
what pretext could he have maintained the right to annul it?
How would such a sale differ from the sale made in Memphis in execution of the determination arrived at in Cincinnati? If the apprehension that confiscation laws might be
passed induced the sale, this is not a duress which authorizes a repudiation of the contract, when the danger had
ceased to exist.
2.. If the instruments which we call mortgages were, as it
is contended on the other side they were, conditional sales,
still they are conveyances only of Nelson's interest in the
property of the Gaslight Company, and stock would'not
pass under them. But we submit that this theory is too far
at'variance with the whole 'history of the transaction, and
with Dean's statements' made in the petition filed in the
civil commission, to be now considered. As a question of
law, however, this transaction has none of the elements of
conditional sales.* If they had been conveyances of stock,
only the equitable title would have passed, because the legal
title could not be transferred except upon the stock books of
the company. The legal principles as to conditional sales,
sought to be relied upon, have application only to legal titles.
3. The decisions cited on the other side in support of the
lawfulness of the civil commission, fail to show that a military commander of a city in easy communicatiOn, as it is
matter of public history that Memphis then was, with the
Hickman v. Cantrell, 9 Yerger, 172.
R

Dec. 1869.]

DEAN V. NELSON.

Argument for the appellee.

capital, may without any authority from Congress or the
President establish courts of justice. If not confined to the
commander-in-chief, then it must exist in every officer in
command of a particular place, even though the command
may not extend beyond a corporal's guard.
4. But if it were a lawful court, of what value was its decree of divestment in this special case? The same military
power which sent Nelson beyond the Federal and into the
rebel lines, with a prohibition against return, a few months
thereafter, renders a decree pro confesso against him, because
he did not respond to an advertisement directing his appearance, and because though called to come into court, he
made no answer. Such a decree oannot be maintained except we adopt the fiat of arbitrary power "sic volo, sicjubeo."
Then, indeed, no -advertisement and no proclamation are
necessary. But tested by the principles of universal justice,
it is a mere nullity. The law of nations, the acts of Congress, nay, the direct command of this military power itself,
forbade Nelson from appearing, even if accident had brought
the publication to his notice. The law cannot create a default
when the law forbids a performance. In England, in Sir
Alexander Don's case,* in the House of Lords, a decree was
reversed which permitted a judgment against Don recovered
in France without personal service, during the war, to be
given in evideice to avoid the plea of prescription in a suit
brought against Don iil Scotland after the war; Don, at
the institution of the proceedings, being a subject of Great
Britain, resident therein.
In the northern part of our own country (Illinois),t a decree
of foreclosure, founded on such an advertisement as the one
here, was set aside, though the statutory period of redemption had passed. The court considering that "titles thus
acquired would rest on the basis of robbery, not upon a judicial divestiture of the debtor's interest recognized as just
'jure genkium.' " And the same doctrine is held in the south* 5 Clark & Finelly, 21.

t Connecticut Insurance Company i. Hall, 16 American Law Register,
606.

DEAN V. NELSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ern part (Georgia), in a case where the jurisdiction was exercised within Confederate lines against a defendant being
at the time in one of the loyal States.*
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In determining the questions raised by this record, the
court is of opinion in the first place, that Dean must be regarded as concluded on the question of the sale of his stock.
Had the transaction been merely an agreement for a sale
upon the terms on which the sale was actually made, and
this a bill by the vendees for a specific performance, we
should find great difficulty in distinguishing this case f'om
that of Dorsey v. Packwood.t But here the sale was actually
made, and the stock was actually transferred to Nelsonj so
that, in the absence of fraud, it became absolutely his. And
in support of the bona fides of the transaction, it may be
said that in view of all the contingencies of the situation,
the arrangement was at the time an advantageous one for
Dean. At all events, he chose, on the whole, to acquiesce
in it, and in his bill to foreclose the stock, presented before
the civil commission, he makes no claim but that of holder
of the mortgage, affirming and claiming under Nelson's title
throughout. And in his answer to the present bill he nowhere hints that Nelson was guilty of any bad faith in the
transaction, or made any agreement to hold the stock for
him, or in any other way than as a bonafide purchaser thereof. And it is hardly correct to say that Nelson incurred no
obligation in the transaction. He agreed to pay the whole
amount immediately in case of failure to pay any instalment
after the receipt by the company of the net quarterly earnings.
And this condition was not in the nature of a penalty, as
surmised by the appellees; but was of the substance of the
contract. So that, on failure to pay or tender the money received by him, or by the company, on account of the stock
\

Cuyler v. Ferrill, 8 American Law Register, New Series, 100.
t 12 Howard, 126.

Dec. 1869.]

DE.AN V. NELSON.
Opinion of the court.

purchased, the whole debt became due and payable as a personal obligation of Nelson.
But, at all events, the stock was actually sold and transferred, and became the property of Nelson, and was possessed by him. The contract was an executed contract, and
that transaction cannot now be impeached.
The next question relates to the character of the instrument given by Nelson to Pepper as security for the payment
of his notes. Was it a conditional sale, or was it a mortgage? On this question hardly a doubt can be raised. The
court is asked by the appellant, under the circumstances of
the case, which the appellant asserts to have been unconscionable on Nelson's part, to consider the instrument as a
conditional conveyance of the stock, and not a' mortgage.
But the court has no power over the transaction to make it
other than, or different from, what thd' parties themselves
made it. If it is a mortgage, it is the duty of the court to
declare it a mortgage; and if it is a mortgage it has, perforce, all the incidents and privileges of a mortgage; and
that it is a mortgage there is no room for question. The
principal engagement is contained in the note, which creates
a debt as soon as earnings or dividends are received. The
other instrument is secondary, and is intended as security
for the payment of the note. The appellee himself, in his
proceedings before the civil commission, treats his claim as
a debt, and the instrument of security as a mortgage. He
calls it a mortgage; and the doctrine of "once a mortgage,
always a mortgage," applies to it.
Then, being a mortgage, whether of real or personal property, the mortgagor has an equity of redemption, unless it
has been extinguished in some legal way. The great ques-

tion of the cause is, whether the equity of redemption has
been extinguished.
It is unnecessary to decide whether the mortgage was one
of real or of personal estate, or whether it was a legal or
only an equitable mortgage. As no attempt has been made
to cut off the equity of redemption, in any other manner

than by legal, proceedings, the question is reduced to the.

172

DEAN V. NELSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

simple one, whether those legal proceedings are valid and
effectual for the purpose.
It is objected that the court or civil commission was not
legally established; but it. is not necessary to determine that
question, as the proceeding's themselves were fatally defective. The defendants in the proceedings (the appellees here)
were within the Confederate lines at the time, and it was
unlawful for them to cross those lines. Two of them had
been expelled the Union lines by military authority, and
were not permitted to return. The other, Benjamin May,
had never left the Confederate lines. A notice directed to
them and published in a newspaper was a mere idle form.
They could not lawfully see nor obey it. As to them, the
proceedings were wholly void and inoperative.
This leaves the equity of redemption in the mortgaged
property unextinguished; and it is, therefore, the right of
the appellees to redeem it.
In the opinion of the court, the whole principal and interest of the notes have become due and payable, and a redemption and retransfer of the stock should be decreed only
on. condition of the payment of principal and interest in full,
after giving to the appellees credit for the sums received by
the appellant; legal interest on each side to be allowed.
The decree of the Circuit Court, therefore, will be so far
modified that, instead of requiring the appellant to forthwith
transfer the stock, asdirected in the decree, he be decreed
to transfer it to the defendants, Miriam W. Nelson and Benjamin May, respectively, as therein directed, upon payment
by the appellees to the appellant of the amount which shall
be found to be due to him on the said two notes, after taking
and stating the account in the said decree afterwards directed; neither party to recover costs of the other in this
appeal.
DECREE MODIFIED ACCORDINGLY.

