Dec. 1870.]

PENNSYLVANIA V. QUICKSILVER COMPANY.

;553

Statement of the case.

If there were injury at all, the city sustained it, and, as it
did not avail itself of the privilege to sue, it cannot turn
round and litigate the legality of the tax with the railroad
company. This tax was exacted under color of law, and the
company, having notified the city of the demand of the
United States and the proceedings taken to enforce it, and
having protested against its collection, were justified in paying it.
And it cannot be required in this state of case, on its own
behalf, to test the correctness of the ruling of the revenue
officers.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PENNSYLVANIA V. QUICKSILVER COMPANY.
1. In a suit against a corporation by one State, an averment that the defendant is a body politic by the law of another State, named end "doing
business'' in it, is not sufficient to give jurisdiction to this court.
2. This court has no original jurisdiction of a suit brought by a State against
its own citizens.

ON motion to dismiss an original writ:
The first clause of the second section of the third article
of the Constitution ordains that the judicial power shall extend to certain cases named, and among them "to controversies between a State and the citizens of another State."
The -second clause of this same section provides:
"That in all cases affecting ambassadors, &c., and those in which
a State shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall have original
jurisdiction," and that "in all the other cases before mentioned
it shall haye appellate jurisdiction."
The 13th section of the Judiciary Act provides:
"That the Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of
all controversies of a civil nature where a State is a party, except between a State and its citizens, and except also between

554

PENNSYLVANIA V. QUICKSILVER COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Arguments for and against the jurisdiction.

a State and citizens of another State, or aliens, in which latter
case it shall have original, but not exclusive jurisdiction."
In this state of the law, constitutional and statutory, the
commonwealth of Pennsylvania brought an original suit
against the Quicksilver Mining Company. The declaration
was thus:
"The commonwealth of Pennsylvania, by her attorneygeneral, complains of the Quicksilver Mining Company, a body
politic in the law of, and doing business in, the State of California,
of a plea that the said company render unto the said commonwealth the sum of $100,000, &e."

Mr. .. 1. Carpenter, on behalf of the Quicksilver Company,
defendant in the case, now moved to dismiss the writ, resting his motion on the ground that as the record did not aver
or in any way show that the said company was incorporated by the laws of any other State or nation than those of
Pennsylvania, or was resident elsewhere than in that State,
no cause of action within the jurisdiction of this court was
disclosed.
Mr. F. Carroll Brewster, in support of the jurisdiction:
We admit that the Quicksilver Company was incorporated
by Pennsylvania, and we have no knowledge that it is incorporated by California. But it does business in California.
Its. mines are there; its office, officers, agents and concerns.
Citizenship when spoken of in the Constitution in reference
to the'jurisdiction of the Federal courts, means, as is well settled, nothing more than residence. What then constitutes
the residence of a corporation? This seems to have been
ruled by McLean, J.,* in the seventh circuit. The declaration there characterized the plaintiff as "doing business and
resident in the State of New York." Mr. Stanbery demurred
for want of jurisdiction. The opinion of the court is thus:
McLean, J.: " Where a corporation of another State sues in
this court, an allegation of citizenship is not now necessary, as
*

ew York and Erie Railroad v. Shepard, 5 McLean, 455.

Dec. 1870.]

PENNSYLVANIA V. QUICKSILVER COMPANY.

555

Opinion of the court.

was formerly required. The State where the corporation is
located, and in which its corporate functions are exercised, if
alleged, is sufficient to give jurisdiction. The demurrer is overruled."
Now, here we allege that the company is "a body politic
in the law of, and does business in California;" which brings
us sufficiently within the language of the opinion cited.
But, independently of this, under the second clause of the
second section of the third article of the Constitution, this
court hs original jurisdiction in all cases where a State is a
party; jurisdiction even where the party is one of its own
citizens.. The language is express, and this view is expressed
by Marshall, C. J., and by Thompson, J., in the Cherokee
Nation v. The State of Georgia.* The former says:
"The second section of the third article of the Constitution
describes the extent Of the judicial power. The second section
closes an enumeration of the cases to which it is extended with
'controversies' between a State or the citizens thereof, and
foreign States, citizens or subjects. A subsequent clause of the
same section gives the Supreme Court original jurisdiction in
all cases in which a State shall be a party. The party defendant may unquestionably be sued in this court."
The latter says.
"The Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction in all
cases where a State shall be a party."
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
By the second section of the third article of the Constitution it is ordained that the judicial power shall extend "to
all controversies between a State and the citizens of another State." The second clause of this section provides
"that in all cases affecting ambassadors, &c., and those in
which a State shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall
have original jurisdictiou. . . In all other cases before mentioned it shall have appellate jurisdiction."
5 Peters, 15, 52.

556

PENNSYLVANIA V. QUICKSILVER COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This second clause distributes the jurisdiction conferred
upon the Supreme Court in the previous one into original

and appellate jurisdiction; but does not profess to confer
any.

The thirteenth section of the Judiciary Act,* which provides for the jurisdiction of this court, accords with this construction.
A State, therefore, may bring a suit, by virtue of its original jurisdiction, against a citizen of another State, but not
against one of her own. And the question in this.case is
whether it is sufficiently disclosed in the declaration that
this suit is brought against a citizen of California. And
this turns upon another question, and that is, whether the
averment there imports that the defendant is a corporation
created by the laws of that State; for, unless it is, it does
not partake of the character of a citizen within the meaning
of the cases on this subjcct.t
The court is of opinion that this averment is insufficient to
establish that the defendant is a California corporation. It
may mean that the defendant is a corporation doing business in that State by its agent; but not that it had been incorporated by the laws of the State. It would have been
very easy to have made the fact clear by averment, and,
being a jurisdictional fhct, it should not have been left in
doubt. Indeed, it was admitted in the argument that the
defendant was a Pennsylvania corporation, and the jurisdiction sought to be sustained by a suit against this agency.
We have already shown that this is unavailable to support
the jurisdiction.
Motion granted, and the
WRIT DISMISSED.
Quoted supra.
t Marshall v. The Baltimore and Ohio R. R. Co., 16 Howard, 814, and
cases there cited.

