Dec. 1869.]

THE DAVIS.
Syllabus,

gree meritorious, as a total loss of the ship and cargo must
have been the consequence of any considerable additional
delay. Those who embarked in the enterprise incurred
considerable danger from the fire, in laying alongside of the
burning vessel, and also from the risk that the mast would
fall in consequence of the fire between decks. Dangers of
the kind were apparent, and there were others apprehended
which proved not to be real.
Viewed in the light of all the circumstances, as they are
exhibited in the record, our conclusion is that the amount
allowed is no more than a just salvage compensation for the
entire service performed by the firemen and the steamtug,
her officers and crew, but it must be remembered that the
libellants, to wit, the steamtng, her officers and crew, were
not the sole salvors, and it is clear that the sum decreed is
for the whole service. Whether the fire department might
or might not have been joined in the libel is not a question
in this case. They were not made parties to the libel, and
consequently their claim, if any, was not before the court,
and the decree must be reversed on that ground.
Our conclusion is that a moiety of the amount allowed as
salvage belongs to the libellants, and we express no opinion
whether the other moiety may or may not be claimed by the
fire department; but if not, then it enures to the shipowners.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause REMANDED, with directions to enter a decree for the libellants in the sum of five
thousand dollars, with costs, in the District and Circuit
Courts, and with interest from the date of the former decree.

TiE DAVIS.
1. Personal property of the United States on board of a vessel, for transportation from one point to another, is liable to a lien for salvage services

rendered in saving the property.
2. Such lien cannot be enforced by the courts by a suit against the United
States.

16

THE DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of.the case.
3. Nor by a proceeding in rem when the possession of the property can only
be had by taking it out of the actual possession of the officers or agents
of the government charged therewith.
4. It may be enforced by a proceeding in rem where the process of the court
can be enforced without disturbing the possession of the government,
which, being thus compelled to appear in the court to assert its claim,
must discharge the lien before the property will be delivered to it.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, the case being thus:
In 1865, Simeon Draper, treasury agent of the United
States, shipped from Savannah a quantity of cottoy on the
schooner Davis, of which one Kemplen was master, to be
carried and delivered to him, the said cotton agent of the
United States, or his assigns, in New York. For this, the
master gave the usual bills of lading, and was to run freight
at the rate of fifteen cents a ton per day. On the voyage,
the vessel met with a disaster, and she and her cargo were
saved from total loss by the meritorious service of one Douglas and others. The vessel was carried by Douglas and the
others, her salvors, to a place of safety, and left to find her
'way into the port of New York. Immediately on her arrival,
and before any of the cotton was delivered to. the agent,
Douglas libelled the vessel and cargo, and a writ being issued,
the marshal took possession of them under it. The United
States appeared by attorney as claimant of the cotton, and
interposed the defence that it was not liable to salvage under
the circumstances.
The District Court admitted that the services were salvage
services, and fixing their worth at a certain sum, entered a
decree against the vessel for its proportion of the same; but
"inasmuch as the cotton saved was in possession of and
claimed by the United States, as the United States intervened, claiming the said cotton, and setting up that no lien
existed, and that no attachment could be made against it in
possession of thee United States," dismissed the libel as to
the cotton. The Circuit Court reversed the decree, so far
as it relieved the cotton, affirming it in other respects.
From this decree of the Circuit Court the United States
appealed, and two questions were raised by the record:

Dec. 1869.]

THE DAVIS.

17

Argument for the United States.

1st. Whether personal property of the United States, on
board a vessel for transportation from one point to another,
was subject to a lien for salvage services rendered in saving
the property.
2d. Under what circumstances, if any, could the lien be
enforced, if any lien existed.
Mr. Roar, Attorney-General, and Mr. TV. A. Field, Assistant Atlorney- General,for the United States:
In The Siren,* this court, after saying that it is a familiar
doctrine of the common law, that the sovereign cannot be
sued in his own courts without his consent; that this doctrine is equally applicable to the supreme authority of the
United States; that, therefore, they cannot be subjected to
legal proceedings at law or in equity without their consent,
and that whoever institutes such proceedings must bring his
case within the authority of some act of Congress, says:
" The same exemption from judicial process extends to the
property of the United States, and for the same reasons. As
justly observed by the learned judge who tried this case, there
is no distinction between suits against the government directly
and suits against its property."
The case of The Siren was decided in accordance with the
doctrine, that,
"Although direct suits cannot be maintained against the
United States, or against their property, yet when the United
States institute a suit, they waive their exemption so far as to
allow a presentation by the defendant of set-off, legal and equitable, to the extent of the demand made or property claimed,
and when they proceed in ren, they open to consideration all
claims and equities in regard to the property libelled."
The United States, in answer to the libel, here excepted
to the jurisdiction of the District Court over the cargo of
cotton, because it was the property of the United States,
and could not be made subject to process in that court, nor
7 Wallace, 164.
VOL. X.

2

18

THE

[Sup. Ct.

DAVIS.

Opinion of the court.

to the compulsory exaction of salvage therefrom, by the process or decree of that court, and that exception and claim in
this suit the United States have never abandoned.
The cases on this question are all collected in the opinion

of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in Br qgs et al. v'
Light Boats,* and they show by a decisive weight of authority that, in the absence of any statute permitting it, the
property of the United States is not liable to judicial process
in rem.
Messrs. Donohue, Beebe, Cooke, and Flagg, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are raised by the record in this case, both
of which are of importance.
The first is whether personal property of the United
States on board a vessel for transportation fronA one point to
another, is subject to a lien for salvage services rendered in
saving the property.
The second is, under what circumstances, if any, can the
lieu be enforced, if one exists.
Of the first proposition there does not seem to be any
reasonable doubt, upon a view of the authorities. Brown v.

Stapyleton,t The Marquis of iUntley,t The Lord Nelson,ยง The
United States v. Wilder,Ij The Siren, are .ll cases in which
maritime liens are recognized and enforced against the property of the supreme government, the liens having their inception while the ownerfhip of the.property was in the government. The case of briggs v. The Light Boats,** is a case
in which a lien is recognized on property of the United
States, created before the title and possession passed to the
United States, but in. which it was finally held, by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, that it could not be enforced
because the United States could not be sued in a personal
action, and their possession could not be disturbed by a suit in
t 4 Bingham, 119.
11 Allen, 158.
Edward's Admiralty, 79. 113 Sumner, 808.
*

7 Allen, 287; S. (.,

11 Id. 167.

.

3 Haggard, 246.
7 Wallace, 152.

Dmc 1869.]

THE DAVIS.
Opinion of the court.

rem. The proposition is treated by the modern text-writers
as settled.* We are quite satisfied with the reasons on
which the principle rests, and are of opinion that when the
property of the government'has been saved from destruction by salvors, or by those sacrifices which are compensated
by a contribution in general average,justice and sound policy
require that it should be held to bear its share of the burden
which the unanimous voice of maritime nations imposes on
all other property in like condition.
The second of the questions above stated presents the
more difficult problem.
Perhaps the two most authoritative and well-considered
cases on that subject are The Siren,t and Briggs v. The Light
Boats.1 Both these cases assert the doctrine, after a full review of the authorities, that such a lien cannot be enforced
where, in (rder to do this successfully, it is necessary to
bring a suit against the United States, because the doctrine
is well established that no suit can be sust4ned in which the
United States is made an original defendant, to be brought
into court by process, without some act of Congress expressly
authorizing it to be done.
They also both assert the proposition that no suit in rem.
can be maintained against the property of the United States
when it would be necessary to take such property out of the
possession of thie government by any Writ or process of the
cqurt.
There are some expressions in the opinion of this court in
the case of The Siren, which seem to imply that no suit in
ren can be instituted -against property of the United States
under any circumstances. But a critical examination of the
case and the reasoning of the court, will show that that question was not involved in the suit, and that it was not intended to assert such a proposition without qualification.
In that case a prize, after capture and before condemnation,
* See Marvin on Wreck and Salvage,
324; 2 Ibid. 625.
t 7 Wallace, 162.

122; 1 Parsons, Maritime Law,
: 11 Allen, 167.

TnE DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

had collided with another vessel and was in fault, and it was
held that as the government had brought the prize into
the court for condemnation, and was before the court as
plaintiff, and had placed the res in possession of the court,
the lien for the damages growing out of the collision could
be enforced against the United States. It was not, therefoi'e, necessary to define all the circumstances under which
the court, having control of the res, might enforce a lien on
property of the United States ; and the learned judge who
delivered the opinion cites with approval the case of The
Light Boats, in 11 Allen, in which the doctrine is laid down
and well supported that proceedings in rem to enforce a lien
against property of the United States are only forbidden in
cases where, in order to sustain the proceeding, the possession of the United States must be invaded under process of
the court. With the principle as thus stated w'e agree, and
do not see in it anything inconsistent with the case of The
Siren.
In the English courts, when it is made to appear that property of the government ought, in justice, ,tO contribute to a
general average, or to salvage, it seems to be the usual
course of proceeding for the proper officer of the government to consent in court that it may take jurisdiction of the
matter. This consent is given by the authority of the king,
who thus submits to be sued in his own courts. The liberal
exercise of this authority removes the difficulty presented
here, where no power to do this exists in any officer of the
government, and prevents any apprehension of gross injustice in such cases in England.*
We are therefore compelled to inquire into the special
circumstances of this case to ascertain whether the cotton,
which was the subject of salvage, can be brought within the
jurisdiction of the court without violating the principle we
have stated. In doing this the absence of any such power
to submit the case to the jurisdiction of the court, as that
exercised in England, seems to justify a liberal construction
Marquis of Huntley, 3 Haggard, 246.

Dec. 1869.]

TnE DAVIS.
Opinion of the court.

of the rule on which we are to act, in favor of the promotion of justice. That rule, as we have already stated, recognizes the existence of the lien for salvage, and admits that
the lien can only be enforced by the coirts in a proceeding
which does not need a process against the United States,
and which does not require that the property shall be taken
out of the possession of the United States. But what shall
constitute a possession which, in reference to this matter,
protects the goods from the process of the court? The possession'which would do this must be an actual possession,
and not that mere constructive possession which is very often
implied by reason of ownership under circumstances fhvorable to such implication. We are speaking now of a possession which can only be changed under process of the court
by bringing the officer of the court into collision with the
officer of the government, if the latter should choose to resist.
The possession of the government can only exist through
some of its officers, using that phrase iin the sense of any
person charged on behalf of the govenment with the control of the property, coupled with its actual possession. This,
we think, is a sufficiently liberal definition of the possession
of property by the government to prevent any unseemly
conflict between the court and the other departments of the
goveinment, and which is ' consistent with the principle
which exempts the government from suit and its possession
from disturbance by virtue of judicial process.
Bringing the facts of the case before us to the test of these
principles, the case was the usual one of a common carrier
contracting to deliver goods on his own responsibility, and
not the case, as alleged by the United States, of a charter of
the vessel. The.goods were then delivered to the master,
and he contracted to deliver them to the agent of the United
States in New York. Immediately on her arrival, and before any of the cottoAi was delivered to the agent, the vessel
and cargo were libelled and taken possession of by the marshal under the writ which issued on the libel being filed.
The possession of the master of the vessel was not the possession of the United States. He was in no sense an officer

MCKEE V. RIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the government. He was acting for himself, under a
contract which placed the property in his possession and exclusive control for the voyage. His obligation was to deliver
possession in New York to the agent of the government.
This he had not done when the process was served on the
cotton. The marshal served his writ and obtained possession without interfering with that of any officer or agent of
the government. The United States, without any violation
of law by the marshal, was reduced to the necessity of becoming claimant and actor in the court to assert her claim
to the cotton. Under these circumstances we think it was
the duty of the court to enforce. the lien of the libelants for
the salvage before it restored the cotton to the custody of
the officers of the government.
DEGREE AFFIRMED.

MCKEE V. RAINS.
1. A marshal of the United States sued in a State court after the 2d August,
1866, and convicted of a trespass in levying upon property not the defendant's in his writ, cannot remove the suit into the National courts
either under the act of April 9th, 18q6 (14 Stat. at Large, 27), or the
act of Mardh 3d, 1863 (12 1b. 755), as a suit brought against him in a
State court for a trespass made or committed during the rebellion by
ahthority derived from an act of Congress.
2. A writ of error which, if sued out after certain decisions announced,
might be to be regarded' as sued out merely for delay, and be followed
by an affirmance of the judgment below, with damages at the rate of
ten per cent. per annum on the amount of the judgment, as provided for
by the 23d Rule of Court, will not be so regarded, nor -the suing 6ut of
it so punished in a case where the principle which it sought to establish
had not been adjudged by this court and the judgment announced, but
as yet was seriously controverted.

to the Circuit Court for Louisiana.
Louise Rains brought trespass, Noverhber 26th, 1866, in
one of the State courts of Louisiana against McKee (who
was marshal of the United States), Cady, and others, sureties
of McKee in his official bond. The petition and supplemenERROR

