Dec. 1869.]

BATES. V. EQUITABLE INSURANCE COMPANY.

83

Syllabus.

contested without paying the redemption-money as a condition precedent. The decision of the court makes that part
of the statute requiring the payment as a condition precedent to contesting the deed a nullity. The policy of the act
is clear, and it is wise. It has been a desideraturn for years
to provide a law which would secure payment of taxes on
real estate, and at the same time give the owner of the property, who may not have been prompt, some reasonable opportunity to save it. This law is happily conceived. It says in
effect if no valid tax was levied, or if it has been paid, or no
notice was given of proceedings for sale, the deed is void,,
and this may be shown at any time without condition.' But
if there has been a valid levy of a tax and a sale, and the
tax has never been paid, either before or after sale, the party
who should have paid this ,tax and has neglected to do so
must pay it now before he can conteo , the deed made by the
proper officer on such sale. This is fuiir, it is just, and would
tend to procure bidders at tax sales, and to admit of redemption on just terms. As there is no decision of the State
court of Illinois directly on this point, under this statute, I
regret the construction that this court has placed upon it.

BATES V. EQUITABLE IhSURANCE COMhANY.
1. A policy of insurance contained the usual covenant that if the property
was sold the insurance ceased, unless the consent of the insurer was given
in writing to the sale.
Held, that an indorsement on the policy by the assured,
" Payable, in case of loss, to E. C. Bates " (the plaintiff),
and under this, the indorsem.nt by the insurer that
" Consent is hereby given to the above indorsenent,"

did not iuply either a knowledge or consent to the sale of the goods
insured.
2. Such indorsements are entirely consistent with the property in the' goods
remain-insg in the assured, and mean no more than that the loss of the
assured shall be paid to the third party.
3. If such third party had really purchased the goods before the loss, then
the party assured sustained no loss andl the policy covered none, and no
action could be sustained on it.
VOL.

X.

8

84

BATES V. EQUITABLE INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Rhode Island; the case
being this:
W. D. Philbrick being the owner of certain goods, got
them insured by the Equitable Insurance Company of Providence. The policy contained a clause that if the property
insured should be sold or conveyed, or if the policy should
be assigned without the consent of the company, the risk
should cease and the policy become void. It contained also
provisions such as are cited below:
"And this company agree, that if the assured shall sell
the
aforesaid property, or any part thereof, before he expiration of

this policy, a proportion of the premium received shall be repaid,
upon receiving notice of such sale befbre a loss happens; .. .
or this policy may be continued for the benefit of such purchaser,
if this company give their consent thereto, to be evidenced by
a certificate of the fact, or by indorsement on this policy."
Philbrick, the party insured, sold the goods during the
life of the policy to one Edward C. Bates, and indorsed on
the policy,
"Payable, in case of loss, to B. C. Bates.
"W. D. PHILBRICK."

The policy, with this indorsement, was sent by a policybroker to the insurance company, and one Frederick W.

Arnold, the secretary of the company, placed under the above
indorsement these words:
" Consent is hereby given
INSURANCE COMPANY.

to the above indorsement. EQUITABLE
"FRED. W. ARNOLD, Secretary."

The goods having been destroyed by fire after the sale,
and the indorsement by Arnold in behalf of the company,
Bates, the owner of them, brought assumpsit on the policy.
The company refused to pay on the ground that Philbrick
had ceased to be owner before the loss occurred, and that
the company had never consented to any change of owner-

Dec. 1869.] BATES V. EQUITABLE INSURANCE COMPANY.

35

Opinion of the court.

ship in the property. And the question was whether on the
facts, this defence ought to be sustained.
Arnold, the secretary of the company, swore that he had
no knowledge of the sale, nor was there any evidence that
any officer of the company had notice of it, unless it was to
be implied from the request to give their consent to the indorsement made by Philbrick, and the consent so given.
The court below was of the opinion that on the case stated
the plaintiff could not recover, and judgment having been
entered accordingly, the record was brought here.

Mr. Goodrich, for the plaintiff in error:
The indorsement by Philbrick being absolute without
reservation, and accompanied by delivery of the policy, is
an assignment of his entire interest both in the instrument
and in the property insured. The words are capable of this
construction. It is indeed their natural construction. The
indorsement on the policy operated like an indorsement on
a-note. It carries all the indorser's interest in the subjectmatter. There is no proof that Philbrick did not intend to.
sell the property, and no ground, therefore, on which the
defendants can restrain the practicable and natural interpretation. The certificate of the company which is found on
this policy, and under Philbrick's assignment, is just such a
certificate as the policy providds that the company shall give
when "the policy is to be continued folthe benefit of the
purchaser," but such as it does not provide or contemplate
shall be given in any other case. Th company have therefore interpreted in the sense in which we say it was made,
this indorsement of Philbrick's.*

Messrs. W. 1. Potter and A. I. Brown, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
One of the conditions of the policy was that if the property
insured should be sold or conveyed, the risk assumed ceased,
*Hooper

426-8.

v. Hudson River Railroad, 17 New York Court of Appeals,

36

BATES V. EQUITABLE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and the policy became void; and there can be no doubt that,
looking to both the provisions of a policy, such as this one
contained, and which are cited in the statement of the case,
it ceases to be binding when the assured parts with his interest in the property insured, unless the company be notified of the sale. When this is done before a loss happens,
the company is bound to refund a part of the prepaid premium, to be apportioned in reference to the Unexpired time
for which the policy was given.
If, however, the purchaser and the assured ask it, and the
company consent to it, the policy may continue for the benefit of the purchaser. This latter proposition is founded upon
the knowledge of the sale, and upon the consent of the company to accept the purchaser as the party whose interest is
insured, instead of the vendor who was originally insured.
As there is no evidence, outside of the two indorsements,
already quoted from the policy,* that there was any consent
to accept Bates, the purchaser, as the party whose interest
was insured, and as the presumption, if there is one arising
from those indorsements of a notice of sale, is not supported
by anything d1se, it becomes important to determine what
those indorsements imply on those two points.
If Philbrick could not, in law or in fact, have directed the
payment of the loss, if one should occur to him, as owner
of the property, to another party, with the consent of the
company, then it would be a reasonable inference that the
indorsement made by him implied a sale of his interest.
But if he could make, with the consent of the company, a
valid appointment that any loss covered by the policy should
be paid to a third person, though he remained the owner of
the goods, and the loss was his loss, then the indorsenient
of Philbrick does not necessarily convey the idea of a sale,
nor the consent of the company imply a consent to-a sale.
Now, it is a well known and frequent thing in insurance
business, for a person to insure his life, or his property, and
either in the policy itself, or by indorsement at the time it
* Supra, p. 84, REP.

Dee. 1869.] BATES

V. EQUITABLE INSURANCE

COMPANY.

37.

Opinion of the court.

is made, or by subsequent indorsement, to which the consent of the company is generally required, to direct the loss
to be paid to some third party. And this is done in language similar, if not identical with that used in this case.
It is a mode of appointing that the loss of the party insured
shall be paid by the company to such third person. This
traiisaction is a very common mode of furnishing a species
of security by a debtor to his creditor, who may be willing
to trust to the debtor's honesty, his skill and success in trade,
but who requires indemnity against such accidents as loss by
fire, or the perils of navigation. The property of the debtor
at risk being thus insured for the benefit of the creditor,
gives him this indemrnity.
In the face of this frequent use of the two indorsements
on the policy, it cannot be held that they imply of themselves
a knowledge of the sale or a consent to insure the purchaser.
If it could be shown that it had been the course of dealing, between these particular parties, to recognize the indorsernent of the party first assured as evidence of a sale,
and the indorsement of the company as a consent to the
sale ; or if it could be shown that by custom and usage, in
any particular place, these indorsements were so treated,
the case might be different; but, in the absence of such
usage or customn, we can see in these indorsements nothing
more than the direction of Philbrick, and the consent of the
company, that any loss sustained by Philbrick, covered by
that policy, should be paid to Bates. As Philbrick did not
have any interest in the goods when the fire occurred, he
sustained no loss, and the policy covered none.
The analpgy of the effect of such indorsements en promissory notes, in assigning the notes to the indorser, is very
imperfect. In such case the sum mentioned in the note is
payable absolutely, and without regard to the interest of the
original payee in any other matter. It is all contained iii
the note whose contents, to use the language of the Judiciary
Act, are thus made payable to the indorsee, and the indorser
necessarily parts with his interest in the subject-matter of
the contract.

38

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V... MEMPHIS RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

These views are well supported by recently adjudged cases
iii this country.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PEOPLE'S RAILROAD V.

MEMPHIS

RAILROAD..

A city invited bids for making a street railroad. Bids were made by an
unincorporated company, and accepted; accepted, however, with a
modification. To this modification the company agreed, expressing its
readiness to sign a contract embodying the terms and conditions of
it. The communication accepting the modification was referred to a
committee; but no contract in form was ever signed. At this point of
the matter the city passed a resolution giving permission to the unincorporated company to have themselves incorporated:
"The incorporation in no way to change the conditions of the propositions
heretofore made sndaecepted by the parties respectively, the same being intended
to secure the rights and more effectually preserve the remedies of parties against
each other respectively, in case of any violation of contract to be hereafter
entered into."
The unincorporated company accordingly got a charter, and so became
an incorporated one. Its charter authorized it to complcte all agreements
entered into, with the city, for the use of the streets ; AND, to operate
street railroadsin ALL the streets of the city with the consent qf the city;
The company, in its chartered form, now expressed to the city its readiness to execute their contract (which had been prepared by th city
solicitor), and to enter on the construction of the road. This communication was referred to a committee. In the meantime opposition was
made by the citizens to having rails in the streets, and the city resolved
to recede from its project of having them, recognizing, at the same
time, its "moral but not legal obligation to make good to those who
had been incorporated as a street railway any real damage sustained by
change of purpose."
Held,
1st. That there was no perfected contract between the city and the
unincorporated company.
2d. That if there had been, there was no evidence that the city had
accepted the incorporated company in place of the unincorporated
one.
*Fogg

v. Middlesex Manufacturing Co., 10 Cushing, 846; Hale v. M.

& F. Ins. Co., 6 Gray, 169; Young v. Eagle Ins. Co., 14 Id. 163; Grosvenor v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 17 New York, 391 ; State Mutual Fire Ins. Co.
v. Roberts, 31 Pennsylvania State, 438.

