Dee. 1870.]

STOVALL

v. BANKS.

Syllabus.

Such proceedings were had that a judgment was rendered
for the defendants, whereupon the plaintiff brought this
writ of error; the writ reciting that the proceedings were
between "Peter Miller, Larkin McKenzie, and others."
Mr. P. Phillips, on the part of the defendants, now moved
to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. T. Wilson, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears, from an inspection of the record, that the writ
of error is defective in respect to the parties. It is therein
recited that the proceedings are between Pitzer Miller and
Larkin McKenzie, and others. This defect has been held so
many .times in this court as fatal to its jurisdiction that it
need be but mentioned to require a dismissal of the case.
1,1oTION GRANTED.

STOVALL

V.

BANKS.

1. A decree which adjudges a certain sum of money to be due from an administrator to each of the distributees of his int(state's estate, and

awards execution to collect it, is a final decree.

An added direction

that the defendant be allowed, as payment to each of the distributees, the

amount of any note held by him against them, and also that the several
shares of the parties to whom the estate is awarded, shall be subject to
ratable deduction for fees yet unpaid for the collection of notes belonging to the administrator, does not make the decree less final; especially
when it does not appear that the administrator held any notes against
any of the distributees, or that there were any unpaid fees.

2. Sureties in an administration bond are bound by a decree against their
administrator finding assets in his hands, and nonpayment of them
over, to the same extent to which the administrator himself is bound.

The, cannot attack collaterally a decree made against him on such a
subject.

8. A decree of a court of competent jurisdiction awarding a sum in the
hands of an administrator to distributees, cannot be attacked collaterally.

5841

STOVALL

v.

BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ERRtoR to the District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia.
This was an action of covenant upon an administration
bond, brought by the ordinary of Morgan County, Georgia,
for the use of persons claiming to be distributees of the
estate of Alfred Eubanks, deceased, against the adnunistrator, who was the principal obligor, and against his sureties in the bond. At the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence the record of a suit in chancery in the Morgan County
Superior Court, in which the persons for whose use this suit
was brought were complainants, and the administrator, with
others who also claimed to be heirs and distributees of the
estate of the decedent, were defendants. By that record it
appeared that the Superior Court adjudged the sum of $31,743.50, assets of the decedent's estate, to-be in the hands of
the administrator, and made an order distributing the whole.
In the distribution $3820 were decreed to be paid to each
of the complainants in the bill, and it was ordered that they
,should have executions for the respective sums adjudged to
them on application to the clerk of the court after ibur days
from its adjournment. The record further exhibited that
executions were issued upon the decree, that no objection
was made to the issue, and that to all of the executions the
sheriff returned, "No property of the defendant or of the
estate of Alfred Eubanks to b& found upon which to levy."
In addition to this, however, the record showed that the
court, after having fixed the sum due to each complainant,
and ordered its payment, and after having awarded execution, went on to direct that the administrator should be
allowed as payment to the respective parties, to be deducted
from the amounts therein adjudged to them, the principal
and interest of any note held by him against either of them;
and also that the several shares of the parties to whom the estate
was awarded should be subjected to ratable deduction for fees ,Vjet
unpaid for the collection of notes belonging to the administrator.
When this record was offered in evidence the District
Court rejected it, holding that the decree was not final, and
consequently that it could not be read in evidence for any

Dec. 1870.]

STOVALL

v.

BANKS.

Argument for and against the admission.

purpose- in the case.
for review.

This action of the court was now here

Mr. J1. D. Pope, for the plaintiff in error:
The last sentence in the decree was the ground doubtless
for the rejection. But it was insufficient. It does not appear
that any portion of the litigation was held back for future
adjudication. A decree in which nothing is so held back
must be final. The right rserved in the present case is no
more than a right reserved to pay in any specific piece of
property or in a designated kinid of currency. A dec'ree is
not less final in its nature because some future orders of the
court may possibly become necessary to carry it into effect.*

Mr. D. '. Walker, contra:
1. The record of the suit in the Morgan County court,
offered in evidence and rejected by the court below, was so
incomplete that it would not sI)po't an actiOn. Matters
were left open by it, and until these were adjusted the decree hud nothing specific and final in it. The case of Sadler
v. Poits, 1 Campbell's Nisi Priuis,t seems exactly inl point.
The attention of this court is directed to it.
2. If.admitted, the decree would have such effect only as
it had in the State court, and in that court it was only
prinafacie evidence as to the surety. Judgments bind none
but parties and privies, and there is no such privity between
principal and surety.-j If it had been admitted, and that
effect had been given to it, the result in this case would
have been the same.
3. Finally, the court of Morgan County and the Supreme
Court of the State, we may add, on appeal, fell iiit(, the fatal
error of holding the marriage, in virtue of which the distributees in this case claimed, to have been voidable instead
of void.
[The counsel then went into an argument upon evidence
Thompson v. Dean, 7 Wallace, 842; Railroad Compathy v. Bradley, lb.
575.
t Page 253.

: Bryant v. Owen, 1 Kelley, 369-371.

586

STOVALL v. BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

taken on commissions from the court of Morgan County
and found in the transcript, to show that the distributees,
for whose use the suit below was brought, claimed in virtue
of a marriage which had no legal existence.]
Mr. Pope, in rep&y, went largely into this same evidence,
to show that the conclu'sions of the opposing counsel could
not on the evidence be sustained.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below rejected the record of the suit in chancery
in Morgan County Superior Court, holding that the decree
was not final, and consequently could not be given in evidence for any purpose in the case. In this we think there
was error. It cannot be maintained that a decree which
adjudges a certain sum of money to be due from a defendant
to the complainant, and awards execution to collect it, is not
a final dec'ee conclusive upon the parties. We do not overlook the fact that in this instance the court, after having
determined the sum due to each of the complainants and
directed its payment, and after having awarded execution,
went on to direct that the administrator be allowed as payment to the respective parties, to be deducted from the
amounts therein adjudged to them, the principal and interest of any note held by him against either of them. It also
directed that the several shares of the parties to whom the
estate was awarded should be subjected to ratable deduction
for fees yet unpaid for the collection of notes belonging to
the administrator. But we think the decree was not, for
this reason, the less final.
Even if the sum decreed was left indeterminate, it was
certainly adjudicated that the complainants were entitled to
participate in the distribution, and the extent of their interest was defined. But it does not appear that there were any
unpaid fees, or that the administrator held any notes against
either of the distributees. All that these parts of the decree
meant, therefore, was either direction to the sheriff respect:
ing the execution of the ft. fa8., or liberty to the defendant

Dec. 1870.]

STOVALL V. BANKS.

Opinion of the court.

to move for a modification of the decree,-a motion never
made. Plainly they were not intended to prevent the enforcement of the decree by executions against the administrator, for such executions were expressly allowed. It is not
unusual in courts of equity to enter decrees determining the
rights of parties, and the extent of the liability of one party
to the other, giving at the same time a right to apply to the
court for modifications and directions. It has never been
doubted that such decrees are fin'al. They are all that is
necessary to give to the successful party the full benefit of
the judgment. In Daniell's Chancery Practice,* the effect
of allowing the privilege of making such applications to the
chancellor, is stated to be no alteration of the final nature
of the decree. Says the author, "A decree with such a liberty reserved is still a final decree, and, when signed and
enrolled, may be pleaded in bar to another suit for the same
mafter." So in Mills v. floaq,t it was said that "a decree
is not the less final in its nature, because some future orders
of the court may possibly become necessary to carry such
final decree into effect." In the case before us no future
orders were necessary. The decree was ripe for execution,
and execution was ordered.
We are referred, however, to the nisi prius case of Sadler
v. Robins, 1 Campbell's Nisi Prius Reports.1 Without dwelling upon the fact that those Reports have not always been
considered safe authority, an examiuttion of the case, as reported, will reveal that it does not sustain the ruling of the
District Court. It was an action of assumpsit on a decree
of the High Court of Chancery in Jamaica. The decree was
for a certain sum, current money of the island, "first deducting thereout the full costs of the defendants expended in the.
said suit, the same to be taxed by George Howell, Esquire,
one of the masters of the said court, and also deducting all
and every further payment or payments which the said
James Sadler and R. Haywood, or either of them, might,
on or before the first day of January, 1806, show to the sat*Vol.

2, pp. 641, 642.

"t 7 Paige, 19.

I Page 253.

STOVALL

v. BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

isfaction of the said George Howell that they or either of
them had paid on account of their said testator's estate."
This decree Lord Ellenborough held to be incomplete, and
ruled that assumpsit would not lie upon it. But it must be
observed that there were certainly unascertained deductions
to be made. Costs had been expended by the defendants,
and the plaintiff might have had them taxed, even if the
defendants had not appeared to tax them. It was for this
reason the decree was adjudged not complete. There was
not, as in the present case, an award of execution to enforce
the decree, and there could not have been, for there was a
reference to a master to ascertain definitely its amount.
It has been argued on behalf of the defendants in error
that the decree of the Superior Court, if admitted, would
have been only prima facie evidence against the sureties in
the bond. Were that conceded it would not justify the
exclusion of the evidence. But the concession cannot be
made. The decree settled that the administrator of the intestate, Alfred Eubanks, held in his hands sums of money
belonging to the equitable plaintiffs in this suit, as distributee of the intestate's estate, which he had been ordered
to pay over by a court of competent jurisdiction, and the
record established his failure to obey the order. Thereby a
breach of his administration bond was conclusively shown.
Certainly the administrator was concluded. And the sureties in the bond are bound to the full extent to which their
principal is bound. A principal in a bond may be liable
beyond the stipulations of the instrument, independently of
them, but so far as his liability is in consequence of the
bond, and by force of its terms, his surety is bound with
him. There may be special defences for a surety arising
out of circumstances not existing in this case, but in their
absence, whatever concludes his principal as an obligor concludes' him. ie cannot attack collaterally a decree made
against an administrator for whose fidelity to his trust he
has bound himself.
Much of the argument upon both sides of this case has been
devoted to the consideration of the inquiry whether the Su-

Dec. 1870.]

STAGG V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
Statement of the case.

perior Court of Morgan County and the Supreme Court of
Georgia rightly adjudged that the equitable plaintiffs are
entitled to a share of the estate of the decedent in the adininistrator's intestate. That is no longer an open question.
It was concluded by the decree offered in evidence. It cannot be tried again in this case.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

STAGG V.

INSURANCE COMPANY.

1. Where there is an express contract for the compensation of an insurance
agent, no proof of a general custom as to such compensation is admissible which is in conflict with the contract.
2, Where such agent had received a general circular from his company,
which contained in clear language the terms of his compensation, and
had acted on that circular without complaint for several years, he is
es'topped to deny that he was employed on those terms.
8. The production of a circular of prior date, with other terms as to compensation, does not alter the case.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri;
the case being this:
Stagg became the igent of the Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Company, in October, 1849, by his acceptance of
a circular which contained this language:

"The usual compensation of agents, so far as we know, is 10
per cent. commission on the premiums, with one dollar for each
policy, and 5 per cent. on the premiums on the renewal of

policies."

This circular gave him certain instructions about his
agency, and some suggestions as to the modes of inducing
persons to insure with the company. In about a year afterwards he received another circular like the former one in its
nain purpose, but' much more full and specific; a sort of
short essay on the subject of life insurance, setting forth its

