26

LITTLE V. IIERNDON.

[Sup. :Ct.

Syllabus.

Nor does it seem necessary to consider the right to remove
this case claimed under the act of April .Oth, 1866. The
counsel for the plaintiffs did not insist upon it in argument;
and it is evident, upon looking into the act, that the suits,
for ther removal of which it provides, are such as have arisen
or may a 'ise under that act; and it is quite clear that the
suit before us is not of that description.
The order of the Circuit Court remanding the case to the
AFFIRMED.
State court must, therefore, be
The counsel. for the defendant in error asks, under the
twenty-third rule, that the order may be affirmed with damages at thi rate of ten per cent. per annum on the amount of
the judgment in the State court. If, upon the application for
removal, the decisions of this court recently made had been
announced, there might be ground for argument that the
writ of error was sued out merely for delay. But it must
be remembered that at the time of suing 'ut the writ of error
in this case, all the questions settled by those decisions were
seriously controverted.
We cannot say, therefore, that the writ was not prosecuted
in good faith, and in the expectation of obtaining a reversal
of the order. The motion for affirmAice with ten per cent.
DENIED.
damiages must be

LITTLE V. HERNDON.
1. A defendant, claiming under an Illinois tax-deed, who would avail himself of the statute of Illinois, of February 2lst, 1861, setting forth what
facts may be shown to establish the invalidity of such a deed, and precluding, except upon certain conditions, a question of it for any other
cause, must show not only a tax-deed in proper form, but show-also a
judgment under which the tax sale was made.
2. On an objection to the admission of a deed because of an alleged erasure
and interlineation apparentbn its face, the court may properly admit
the deed, leaving it to the jury to determine whether tlere was any alteration.
3. A deed for lands in Illinois, executed in Virginia and acknowledged in

Dec. 1869.]

LITTLE V. HERNDON.
Statement of the case.

conformity with its laws at the time of execution, may be lawfully recorded in Illinois, and read in evidence without further proof of execution.

ERROR to the Circuit Court fbr the Northern District of
Ill.inois, the case being thus:

A statute of- Illinois, on the subject of sales of land for
taxes, passed 21st February, 1861, makes this enactment:
"All deeds hereafter made by the proper officer in pursuance
of sales of real estate for the non-payment of taxes shall be held
to be null and void, if it be shown that said taxes had been paid
before the sale, or that said real estate was riot subject to taxation, or that it had been redeemed fom said sale, or if notice
required by the constitution was not giiren, or that the Oieseription of said land was not sufficiently definite; and the validity
of all such deeds hereafter made by the proper officers, for real
estate sold for the non-payment of taxes, shall not be questioned
in any suit or controversy in this State for any other cause, unless
the party.wishing to contest the same shall tender to the claimant under said tax-deed, or deposit in the court in which such
suit is pending, for his use, the amount of the redemption-money
now provided for by law, with ten per cent. per annum interest
thereon from-the date of said deed to the time of said tender or
deposit; and after said tender or deposit is made, the validity
of said deed may be questioned in the same manner and to the
same extent as now provided by law-"
At the time of the passage of this act, by the decisions of
the courts of Illinois, full and explicit,* a tax-deed, executed
by the proper officer, had no validity unless founded upon
a judgment against the parcel of land in default fbr non-payment of the tax, an order for the sale, and precept thereon,
and it was necessary that these preliminary steps should be
first shown in order to give any effect to a.title under the
deed.
In this state of the law, one Herndon brought ejectment
against Little, 'in the court below, to recover possession of
Spelman v. Curtenius,.12 Illinois, 409; Marsh v. Chestnut, 14 Id. 224;

Charles v. Waugh, 35 Id. 317.

LITTLE V. HERNDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement and opinion.

a lot of land in Illinois, describing it. He gave in evidence
two patents, including the premises, from the government
to one Hood, each dated November 1st, 1839; and a deed
from Hood to himself, dated February 4th, 1842, and recorded in the recording office where the land was, and
rested.,
.The'defendant, in his defence, offered in evidence a deed
from the sheriff of the county where the land was, to a certain Peck, including the premises, dated July 1st, 1864,
purporting to be a deed given in pursuance of a sale for the
non-payment of taxes for the year 1861, but he did not show
a judgment under which thetax-deed was made. He offered,
also, a quit-claim deed from Peck and wife to one Bourland,
dated July 1st, 1864, and from Bourland and wife to one Underhill, dated April 29th,.1865, and then offered in evidence
five tax certificates, for taxes paid on the premises for the
several years therein mentioned, stating that the object of
offering the same in evidence was to recover the amount of
the taxes and costs paid upon the land, in case the deed from
the sheriff should be questioned as title by the plaintiff, under
the terms of the act of February 21st, 1861, and to defeat his
using his patents as a title, if he refused to pay the taxes according to the statute. But the court was of opinion that the
defendant had not brought himself within the statute, for the
reason, among others, that he must first show there was a
judgment, as the foundation of the tax sale and deed. And
so ruled. Judgment having been accordingly rendered for
the plaintiff, the other side now brought the case here.
I The principal question argued here was, whether upon a
true construction of the act of February. 21st, 1861, the plaintiff was bound to pay the taxes which had been paid by the
defendant, aad by those under whom he claimed, as a condition of being permitted to attack the deed under the tax sale;
the defendant taking the position that upon a true-construction of the act, the sheriff's deed of the sale properly exe.
cuted, with its recitals, was sufficient evidence,i:h the first
instance, to impose this condition upon the plailitiff
Some minor objections, it should 'be added,. were taken

Dec. 1869.]

LITTLE V. HERNDON.

Opinion of the court.

below by the defendant to the admission of evidence, as, 1st.
To the admission of one of the patents; the ground of the
objection being. an alleged erasure and interlineation, apparent, as he asserted, on the face of the same, by the erasure
of the word six, and the interlineation of the word seven
therefor in description of the premises. The court overruled the objection, and left it to the jury to determine whether there was any alteration. 2d. To the admission of the
deed from Hood to Herndon. The ground of this objection
being the acknowledgment. But the acknowledgment was
in conformity with the requirements of the law of Virginia.
And by statute of Illinois,* a deed acknowledged in conforimity with the laws of the State in which the deed is executed, may be aamitted to record in the county where the
land is situated; ad after being so recorded, may be used
in evidence without further proof of the execution thereof.
The' court below overruled the objection, and allowed the
deed to be read.
Mr. B.

. Clark,for the plaintiff in error.

Mr.Conway Robinson, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question is, whether there is anything in the
act of February 21st, 1861, indicating an intention, on the
part o f the legislature, to change the course of decision
which the courts of Illinois had made, on the subject of a
tax deed, made without evidence of a preceding judgment,
and to give validity and effect to the naked deed of the
officer ?
The argument in favor of the construction of the statute
which the plaintiff in epror would establish is placed upon
the introductory words of the act: "All deeds hereafter
made by the proper officer in pursuance of sales of real
estate for the non-payment of taxes shall be held," &c. It
is contended that the words should be construed as meaning
Session Laws, 1847, p. 47,

8; Secrist v. Green, 8 Wallace, 750.

LITTLE V.- IIERNDON.

[Sup..Ct.

Opinion of the court.

simply the deed of the "proper officer," and nothing more,
and that they impliedlv, at least, exclude the necessity of
giving any evidence of the judgment, order of sale, or precept. But we are inclined to think that this idea fails to give
full effect to the language used. The deed must not only be
made by t^je proper officer, but must be made "in pursuance
of sales ot real estate for the non-payment of taxes." How
are those sales made according to the law of Illinois? As
we have seen, after a judgment rendered by the court against
the parcel of land. for default in payment of the taxes, on
order of sale, and prebept to the officer. Unless these steps
have first been takep, the sale catnnot be said to be in pursuance of sales of real estate for the non-payment of taxes, as
provided in the act. It is, perhaps, not inappropriate to look
*at the consequences that might attend any different interpretation.. If the naked deed of the' officer is sufficient t6 impose the condition upon the owner to pay all taxes and costs,
and ten per cent. interest, before he can be permitted to attack the deed for any irregularity, except as specified in the
act itself, then a deed without a judgment, or order of sale
(as these are not within the exception), would be just as
available for the purpose -as if founded on a judgment and
order of sale. It is not necessary to stop to point out the
abuses to which such ao interpretation would naturally lead.
In the case of Spelman v. Curtenius,* the court observed
"that a regular tax deed, founded upon a valid judgment
and precept, is made by the statute primd facie evidence of
every fact necessary to authorize a recovery upon it; but, as
it is only primd facie evidence, it follows that there must be
some way of contesting the case made by deed, else it would
be conclusive of those facts of which the statute expressly
declares it shall be prima. facie evidence merely."
The
opinion then points out niany.grounds and objections "that
would overthrow this primnd facie evidence and defeat the
title. And, we.think, it is this primO facie title, thus explained, which is fairly embraced in the introductory language of the act of 1861,
12 Illinois, 411.

Dec. 1869.]

LITTLE

V. HERNIDON.

81

Opinion'of the court.

In the ordinary case of a title to land, set up by virtue of
a sale under a judgment and execution, the party is bound
to give evidence of the judgment and execution to support
this title. Without these, the sheriff's or marshal's deed
would be a nullity. And it would be singular, in these tax
sales, so stringently scrutinized by the courts, and every prerequisite prescribed by the legislature before a sale rigidly
enforced, if the act in question was intended to dispense
with the necessity of producing the judgment and. precept
as the foundation of the sale and of the validity of the deed.
For these reasons we are incli'ned to think that the construction of the statute by the court below was right, and should
be affirmed.
We regret that this statute has not come under the review
of the courts of the State, as we should have been relieved
froi this examination of it. But, after a diligent search into
the reports of their decisions, we have not been able to find
any case involving its construction except one, which holds
that the act is not retrospective.*
A minor objection below was to the admission of one of
the patents, on the ground of an erasure. The court left
the question to the jury, which was quite as favorable a
ruling as the defendant could ask. In the absence of any
proof on the subject the presumption is that the correction
was made before the execution of the deed. In a recent
case in the Queen's Bench, Lord Campbell, Chief Justice, in
delivering the opinion of the .court, after referring to the
note in Hargreve & Butler's C6ke Littleton, 225 b,where
this rule was asserted, observed: "This doctrine seems to
us to rest on principle. A deed cannot be altered after it is
executed without a fraud or wrong; and the presumption is
against fraud or wrong."t The cases are not uniform in
this country, but the most stringent leave the question to the
jury._
Conway v. Cable, 37 Illinois, 90.
t Doe v. Catomore, 16 Adolphus & Ellis, New Series, 745.
I Lewis v. Payn, 8 'Cowen, 76; Jackson v. Jacoby, 9 Id. 126; Hatch v.
Hatch, 9 Massachusetts, 312.

LITTLE V. HERNDON[

[Sup. _Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

Another objection was to the admission of the deed in evidence from Hood to Hlerndon, which was executed and acknowledged in the State of Virginia. But it appears that
the acknowledgment was taken in conformity with the laws
of Virginia at the time the deed was executed, which, according to the laws of Illinois, was sufficient to admit it to
be there recorded, and to be given in evidence.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case on the,
construction of the statute of Illinois of February 21, 1861.
That act mentions certain facts which may be shown without alny condition precedent in order to establish the invalidity of a tax deed. These are: 1. That the tax had been
paid before sale. 2. That the land was not subject .to taxation. 3. That it had been redeemed from the tax sale. 4.
That the notice required by the constitution had not been
given. 5. That the description of the land was not sufficiently definite.
It then provides that a Lax deed, made after the passage
of that act, shall not be questioned in any suit for'any other
cause, unless the party wishing to7 contest the same shall
tender to the claimant under the tax deed, or deposit in the
court in which the suit is pending, for his use, the amount
of redemption-money required by law to redeem, and ten
per cent. per annum interest.
The defendant in this case offered his tax deed, and required of the cour't to have the a'mount which he showed by
the deed and tax receipts paid or deposited, before the plaintiff should be permitted to question it. The court refused
to receive the tax deed in evidence, and permitted the plaintiff to contest it and exclude it from the jury on the ground
that no judgment was produced by defendant under which
the tax sale was made. The absence of such a judgment is
not one of the grounds mentioned for which a deed may be
Secrist v. Green, 3 Wallace, 744; Carpenter v. Dexter, 8 Id. 513.

Dec. 1869.]

BATES. V. EQUITABLE INSURANCE COMPANY.

83

Syllabus.

contested without paying the redemption-money as a condition precedent. The decision of the court makes that part
of the statute requiring the payment as a condition precedent to contesting the deed a nullity. The policy of the act
is clear, and it is wise. It has been a desideraturn for years
to provide a law which would secure payment of taxes on
real estate, and at the same time give the owner of the property, who may not have been prompt, some reasonable opportunity to save it. This law is happily conceived. It says in
effect if no valid tax was levied, or if it has been paid, or no
notice was given of proceedings for sale, the deed is void,,
and this may be shown at any time without condition.' But
if there has been a valid levy of a tax and a sale, and the
tax has never been paid, either before or after sale, the party
who should have paid this ,tax and has neglected to do so
must pay it now before he can conteo , the deed made by the
proper officer on such sale. This is fuiir, it is just, and would
tend to procure bidders at tax sales, and to admit of redemption on just terms. As there is no decision of the State
court of Illinois directly on this point, under this statute, I
regret the construction that this court has placed upon it.

BATES V. EQUITABLE IhSURANCE COMhANY.
1. A policy of insurance contained the usual covenant that if the property
was sold the insurance ceased, unless the consent of the insurer was given
in writing to the sale.
Held, that an indorsement on the policy by the assured,
" Payable, in case of loss, to E. C. Bates " (the plaintiff),
and under this, the indorsem.nt by the insurer that
" Consent is hereby given to the above indorsenent,"

did not iuply either a knowledge or consent to the sale of the goods
insured.
2. Such indorsements are entirely consistent with the property in the' goods
remain-insg in the assured, and mean no more than that the loss of the
assured shall be paid to the third party.
3. If such third party had really purchased the goods before the loss, then
the party assured sustained no loss andl the policy covered none, and no
action could be sustained on it.
VOL.

X.

8

