Dec. 1869.]

FEILD V. FARRINGTON.
Syllabus&

designs, and will make them profitable to the original inventors or owners of them, if they choose to employ it.
We are of opinion that the first question should be answered in the affirmative and the second in the negative.

FEILD v. FARRINGTON.
L In a suit between a consignor, and his factors, who had made advances on
the consignrnent nearly equal to its value-the allegation of the consignor being non-compliance by the factors with his order to sell-the
alleged order, however, having been but a verbal one, and a conflict
of testimony existing as to whether such an order was given at allan instruction was rightly refused to the consignor, which rested the
liability of the factor on the bare fact of an order to sell, and which made
no allusion either to the large advances or to the fact that three weeks
after the alleged order to sell was given the factors wrote to their eonsignor a letter informing him that they had not sold his goods, as the market
had been dull and on the decline every day since he left them; that the goods
would not then sell for more than so iauch (a decline from former prices) ; that
they would be compelled to sell unless be made other shipments, or remitted in
cash as a margin, the money market being tight; that they had held on thus far
to neet his views, but that the declining tendency of the market induced them to
write, and asking to hear from him on his receipt of their lieter; which
letter the consignor received, and purposely declined to answer.
2. Where factors have made large advances, or incurred expenses on account
of the consignment, the principal cannot by any subsequent orders control their right to sell at such a time, as in the exercise of a sound discretion, and in accordance with the usage of trade, they may deem best
to secure indemnity to themselves and to promote the interests of the
consignor; they acting, of course, in good faith and with reasonable
skill.
3, The effect of the refusal by the consignor to reply to such a letter as the
one mentioned in the first paragraph above, within a reasonable time
after he received it, was to raise a presumption that he approved of what
his factors had done,'qo far as their letter informed him; and in the
absence of anything to rebut that presumption, he was to be regarded
as having consented to wbatever delay had occurred in effecting a sale,
even though the delay was contrary to his directions.
4. The receipt and non-acknowledgment of such a letter would not, however,
relieve the factors from a continuing obligation to sell within a reasonable time, all the circumstances of the case being considered; and at
the best prices that could be obtained.

FEILD V. FARRINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Hence where, after writing such a letter, the factors did not sell for nearly
ten months afterwards, the market declining all the while; Held, that

though the letter was never acknowledged, it was a question which
should have been submitted to the jury, whether this long delay to sell
in view of a market falling the whole time, was in the exercise of
sound discretion, good faith, and reasonable diligence; and that an instruction that the consignor should bear all losses sustained after his
refusal to answer the factors' letter without excepting such portion of
the loss as might have been caused by the factors' fault, was error.
This, notwithstanding that the court charged that, as a general principle, the factors were found to use due diligence, care, and skill in the

sale of the goods, and to obey instructions given to them by the consignors in regard to the sale; this charge not having been given by way
of qualification to the specific instructions previously given.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Arkansas, the case being this:

Feild, a resident of Little Rock, Arkansas, owning a quantity of cotton, put it, personally, on the 9th October, 1865,
into the hands of Farrington & Howell, commission 'merchants of Memphis, Tennessee, with directions to sell it;
cotton being then worth not less than 50 cents a pound.
On the next day, being now on his way homeward, he, tele-graphed to them, "Do not sell my cotton till I see you."
The market at this time was excited, and higher than at any
subsequent time. A short time after this, Feild returned to
Memphis, and being about to visit the Eastern cities, requested Farrington & Co. to make him an advance of $11,000
on the cotton, which they made him. The advance Wv'as
very nearly if not quite equal to its value. Ie then went.
to the Eastern cities. According .to the testimony of Farrington, by whom the business of the firm with Feid was
chiefly managed, Feild, on that occasion, left the cotton" to
be sold at their discretion; but expressed great confidence
in higher prices;" and according to the same testimony, on
his return from the Eastern cities, approved of the course
of the firm in not selling, and " said he would appreciate it,
and remember it in future." The market was all this time
rather a declining one, and the firm justified whatever of
irregularity their action in not selling in the face of their

Dec. 1869.]

crEILD v. FARRINGTON.
Statement of the case.

quite large odvance might be supposed to have, on the
ground, sworn to by Farrington, " that Mr. Feild was always
represented to them as entirely solvent and able to pay his
debts, and that they wished to follow his own'views about
the sale." Feild, it was testified, had promised them, when
making this one, further consignments.
According to the testimony of Feild, however, lie gave
Farrington & Co., when he was going to the Eastern cities,
express instructions to sell within ten days , and to reimburse
themselves for the money advanced; which according to his
testimony they promised to do. Feild's testimony proceeded
thus:
"I then went East, and returned in about fourteen or fifteen
day's to Memphis, where I only made an hour's stay on my way
home to Little Rock, which I occupied in seeing the firm. Cotton had declined one cent on the pound since I had told them
to sell, and I remonstrated with them for not having sold.
They excused themselves by saying that they had only been
acting for my interest, which excuse I accepted. I, however,
renewed my instructions, and the last words I said to Mr. Farrington, on shaking hands with him, were these: ' Whatever
you do, do not let the cotton fall one cent lower.'"
This the witness testified was between the 25th and the
28th of October, 1865. Nothing further took place till the
16th of November following, when cotton having declined,
the firm thus addressed Feild:
MEmrI.is, November 16th, 1865.

We have not sold your cotton, as the market has
been dull and on the decline every day since you left. The dispatches fnom New York yesterday quote middling cotton about
50c., and very dull. The public dispatches quote 50@51ec, white
the private give 49@50. Your cotton would not, in the present
market, sell here for over 43@44c. As. the money market is
very tight, we will be compelled to sell your cotton unless you make
other shipments, or remit us as a margin in cash.
We have held on thus far to meet your views, but the declinDEAR SIR:

FEILD

v.

[Sup. Ct.

FAAtRINGTON.

Statement of the case.

ing tendency of the market induces us to write this letter.
.Please to.let us hearfrom you on receipt.
Very truly, your friends,
FARRINGTON

&

HOWELL.

This letter Feild received, but never answered or in any way
took notice of. Referring in his testimony on the trial to his
receipt of it, and to his omission to answer, he said thus:
"I was surprised to learn that the cotton had not been sold.
I thought the plaintiffs had made themselves liable by their
neglect to sell. I was afraid to answer their letter, as I regarded it
as a mere endeavor to obtain some admission or concession from me;
and I concluded to abandon the matter, leaving them With whatever
responsibility they might have incurred. Cotton had fallen in the
market, and I did not feel disposed to make myself a party to
their delinquency."
Nothing further was said or written, on either side, till
August 8th (nearly nine months after the preceding letter),
when cotton still declining the firm wrote again to FQild
thus:
M Mpnis, August 8th, 1866.
DEAR SIR:

We have been much astonished at not hearing

from you in regard to your cotton. We wrote you on the subject,
and requested a reply, but have heard nothing from you. By
the same mail we wrote to other parties in your city, and we
received due acknowledgment. This was many months ago,
date not recollected. When you left your cotton here you were not
satisfied with the market, although that was about 50c. When you
returned from the Northern cities you approved of our efforts to
promote your interest, and that the cotton had not been sold. The
price has greatly declined, and the expenses have been going
on. Now let us hear your, views. The cotton will not pay your
account, as you know, and we ask you to remit us for the balance. According to the present market the cotton would be
well sold at 32c., including internal revenue. We have now'
waited to meet your views until it is necessary for something to be
done. Will you please write us on receipt of this, for we are anxious
to hearfrom you.?
Very respectfully,
FARRINGTON & HOWELL.

Dec. 1869.]

FEILD V. FARRINGTON.
Statement of the case.

This letter the firm inclosed to one of their correspondents
at-Little Rock (Feild's residence), in order that it might be
certainly delivered to him, and it was delivered, and the
firm advised accordingly. Of this second letter Feild took
11o notice.; stating in his testimony on the trial that he had
omitted to do so for the same reason that he had omitted to
take notice of the first one.
About five weeks afterwards, that is to say, on the 12th
September, 1866, cotton having gradually declined from the
month in which it was put into the hands of Farrington &
Co. till now, they sold it all; the chief part at 30 cents a
pound, and the residue at 25 and 20 cents. " The cotton
was sold at this time," said Fa.rrington in his testimony,
" because we had despaired hearing of Mr. Feild, who appeared to us to have abahdoned it, and to have had no intention of assuming the control of it, or of paying us the
amount he owed us. . . . I had but one wish," he continued,
"and that was to act in a manner which would be satisfactory to Mr. Feild."
Feild was immediately advised by letter of the sale, and
that low as the prices obtained seemed, the sale was at the
highest rates of the then market, and that the firm would
send account sales and account as soon as the cotton was
delivered. To this letter Feild paid no attention.
Five days afterwards, that is to say, on the 17th September, 1866, the cotton being now delivered, the firm sent the
accounts, and drew [or $6695, the difference between the
sum due on the advance made in October, 1865, and the
sum for which the cotton was now sold. Feild took no
notice of this letter, and refused payment of the draft.
Whereupon in January, 1867, Farrington & Howell sued
him in the court below for the balance.
On the trial the defendant asked the court to give the following instructions, to wit:
"1. If the jury find from the evidence that, after the cotton
was placed in the hands of the plaintiffs, Feild gave them instructions to sell before the price should fall any lower, and that
vOL. ,X.

10

FEILD

v.

FARRINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the plaintiffs failed to do so, then the plaintiffs must suffer any
loss occasioned by reason of their failure to sell at that time, and
Feild is entitled to a credit for the amount that the cotton would
have brought if sold at the time such instructions were given.
" 2. If the jury find from the evidence that the cottbn was
left by the defendant in the hands of the plaintiffs to sell without any specific orders as to the time and mode of sale, and
that the plaintiffs had made large advances on account of said.
cotton, then the plaintiffs were bound to sell, in the exercise of
a sound discretion, at such time and in such mode as the usage
of trade might require, and to reimburse themselves for their
advances out of the proceeds of the sale, and the defendant
could not, by his silence, prevent the plaintiffs from making such
sale; and if the jury find from the evidence that the plaintiffs
did not exercise a sound discretion in the premises, and kept the
cotton on hand for an unreasonable and improper length of
time, then the defendant is entitled to a credit for the amount
which it would have brought, if sold in accordance with the usage
of trade and the exercise of such discretion.
"3. If the jury find from the evidence that the cotton was
shipped, by the defendant, to the plaintiffs, as commission merchants, to be sold; and that the plaintiffs made large advancements on the same ; and that the plaintiffs wrote to the defendant
that, unless other shipments were made them, or the defendant
made them remittances in cash, they would sell the cotton, then,
on the failure of defendant to write to plaintiffs in reply, the
plaintiffs were bound to sell the cotton in a reasonable time; and
the defendant is entitled to a credit on the plaintiffs' demand for
the amount which the cotton would have brought, if sold within
a reasonable time after the failure of the defendant to answer
said letter."
But the court refused to give these instructions, or any of
them; and in lieu thereof, instructed the jury:
"That in case they find that defendant gave the plaintiffs instructions orally to sell the cotton before any further fall in tAe
price ; and that the plaintiffs failed to do so, but afterwards, on
the 16th day of November, 1865, wrote the letter of that date;
and that Feild refused to abswer the same, then the plaintiffs
are responsible for any loss sustained by reason of the fall in

Ded). 1869.]

FEILD

v.

FARRINGTON.

Opinion of the court.

prices up to the time of the failure of the defendant to reply to
said letter, but all losses sustained after that time must be borne
by the defendant."
The court also charged that, as a general principle, the
plaintiffs, as factors, were bound to use due diligence, care,
and skill in the sale of the cotton committed to them for
sale; and that it was their duty to obey instructions given
them by defendant in regard to a sale.
Exceptions were taken to the refusal to charge as asked,
and to the charge as given, and verdict and judgment having
gone for the-plaintiffs, in $5690, the defendant brought the
case here, where it was submitted on briefs.

i.

AMessrs. IWhtkins and Bose, for the plaintiffs in error; Mr. A.
Garland,contra.

Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
There is some conflict in the testimony respecting the instructions given to the plaintiffs below by the defendant, at
the time when he obtained the advance on his consignment,
and at the time when he last saw them, some fifteen days
afterwards. It is claimed that he then gave them instructions to sell the cotton befbre the price should fhll any lower,
and that this direction was given not later than the 28th of
October, 1865. It was upon this theory that his first prayer
for instructions to the jury was framed. It is very obvious
that no such directions, as that prayer asked for, should have
been'giveu to the jury. The prayer was based upon a very
imperfect statement of the case. It overlooked material
facts, without considering which it could not be determined
to what amount of credit he was entitled. There was undisputed evidence that on the 16th of November, 1865, some
three weeks after the defendant's alleged directions were
given to the plaintiffs, they wrote to him a letter informing
him that they had not sold his cotton, as the market had been
dull and on the decline every day since he left, that his cotton
would not then sell for more than from forty-three to forty-

&
FEILD v.

ARRINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

four cents per pound, and that they would be compelled to
sell unless he made other shipments, or remitted in cash as
a margin, the money market being tight. They wrote farther that they had held on thus far to meet his views, but
that the declining tendency of the market induced them to
write, and they asked to hear from him on' his receipt of
their letter. It was also in evidence that the defendant received'this letter, and that he purposely declined to answer
it. No allusion was made to these facts in the defendant's
first prayer for instructions to the. jury. Yet it is manifest
they ought not to have been overlooked by the court, for
they bear directly upon the question whether the defendant
was entitled to credit for the sum for which the cotton would
have sold if the plaintifi had sold it before the price fell in
the market. The effect of his refusal to reply to their letter
within a reasonable time after he received it, was undoubtedly to raise a presumption that he approved of what his
fictors bad done, so far as their letter informed him. In
the absence of anything to rebut that presumption, he must
be regarded as having consented to whatever delay had occurred-in effecting a sale, even though it was contrary to his
directions. He could not, therefore, hold his factors responsible for the consequences of acts which he bad ratified.
Mr. Liverm'ore, in his Treatise on Agency,* says that "when
the relation of principal and agent does in fact exist, although
in the particular transaction the agent has exceeded hig authority, an intention to ratify will always be presumed from
the silence of the principal who has received a letter informing him what has been done on his account." And in Story
on Agency,t it is said that, "In the ordinary course of business between merchants and their correspondents, it is understood to be the duty of one party receiving a letter from
the other to answer the same within a reasonable time, and
if he does not, it is presumed he admits the propriety, of the
acts of his correspondent, and confirms and adopts them."
* Vol. 1, p. 5.0.
t
269; see also Abbe v. Rood, 6 McLean, 106, and Norris v. Cook, I
Curtis, 464.

Dec. 1869.]

FEILD

v.

FARRINGTON.

Opinion of the court.

Whatever, then, may have been the instructions given to
the plaintiffs by the defendant respecting the time of sale,
even though they were disobeyed, and though the cotton
was not sold before the price had fallen, his refusal or neglect to reply to the plaintifi' letter of November 16th, 1865,
which notified him of the fall in the market price, and informed him that they had not sold but had held on thus far
to meet his views, must be deemed an approval of their
delay, and equivalent to an antecedent authority. It has
been argued that at most it raised a presumption of fact that
should have been submitted to the jury. To this it may be
answered there was nothing in the case to repel the presumption, and the jury would, therefore, have been bound
by it had it been submitted. But the defendant's prayer for
instruction ignored it, arid, in effect, called upon the court
to withdraw it from the jury.
There is still another reason why the court should not have
affirmed the defendant's first proposition.
The plaintiffs
had made large advances on the cotton consigned to them,
advances very nearly, if not quite, equal to its value, and
much more than its market value at any time after their
letter to the defendant was written. They had, therefore,
acquired a special property in the cotton, and they held it
for their own indemnity as well as for the benefit of the
defendant. Now, though it is true that factors are generally
bound to obey all orders of their principals respecting the
time and mode of sale, yet when they have made large advances or incurred expenses on account of the consignment,
the principal cannot by any subsequent orders control their
right to sell at such a time as in the exercise of a sound
discretion, and in accordance with the usage of trade, they
may deem best to secure indemnity to themselves, and to
promote the interests of the consignor. Of course they
must act in good faith and with reasonable skill. This is
the rule as laid down in Brown v. McGran,* in which it was
said that "where a consignment has been made generally
14 Peters, 479.

FEILD

v.

FARRINGTON.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

without any specific orders as to the time or mode of sale,
and the factor makes advances or incurs liabilities on the
footing of such consignment, then the legal presumption is,
that the factor is intended to be clothed with the ordinary
rights of factors to sell, in the exercise of a sound discretion,,
at such time and in such mode as the usage of trade and his
general duty require, and to reimburse himself for his advances and liabilities out of the proceeds of sale, and the
consignor has no right, by any subsequent orders givel] after
advances have been made or liabilities incurred by the factor,
to suspend or control this right of sale, except so far as respects the surplus of the consignment not necessary to the
reimbursement of such advances or liabilities." In view of
this it is apparent that the jury had more to find than the
fact that Feild gave instru3tions to sell the cotton before any
fall in the price, in order to justify a credit to him for the
amount the cotton would have brought if sold at the time
the instructions were given. There was, therefore, no error
in denying the defendant's first prayer for instructions to
the jury.
And the second prayer was correctly refused for the reason
that it allowed no effect to the letter of November 16, 1865,
and the defendant's refusal to reply.
But we think there was error in refusing to affirm the
defendant's third proposition, and the instruction which, was
given.
The instruction given, we think, was not sufficiently qualified. It gave undue effect to the plaintiff's letter and to
the defendant's neglect, or refusal, to reply to it. Surely it
cannot be maintained that, by leaving their letter unanswered, the defendant relieved the plaintiffs front the consequences of subsequent neglect, or want of good faith.
His silence, at most, was an assent to what they had done
up to the time when they informed him of their breach of
his orders. It was a condonation of past neglect, not a permission given for future negligence or faithlessness It did
not relieve the plaintiffs from their continuing obligation to
sell the cotton within a reasonable time, all the circumstances

Dec.: 1869.]

FEILD

v.

FARRINGTON.

Opinion of the court.

of the case being considered, and to sell at the best price
that could be obtained. They were still his factors, and
under the obligations of factors. Though the order to sell
before a fall in the price had expired, they were still agents
to sell, and without any particular instructions. It cannot
-be said that the letter of the plaintiffs proposed, or that the
defendant by his silence assented to an indefinite ,or unreasonable postponement of a sale of the cotton. On the
contrary, the letter threatened an immediate sale, unless
other shipments were made or cash was remitted, and the
silence of the defendant can be deemed no more than an
assent to what his correspondents had done, and to what
they proposed to do. Yet the charge of the court shielded
them against all responsibility for good faith and diligence
after the defendant neglected to reply to their letter, and
threw upon him all loss sustained after that time, though it
may have been occasioned in whole or in part by their
failure to sell when they should have sold. The plaintiffs
held the cotton, without making a sale, nearly ten months
after their letter of November 16, 1865, in which they, notified the defendant that they would be compelled to sell unless he made other shipments .or remittances. During this
period the price of cotton was constantly falling in' the
market, until at last they sold what they said was worth in
November, 1865, forty-three to forty-fbur cents, for thirty,
twenty-five, and twenty cents. Whether this long delay, in
view of a falling market, was in the exercise of a sound discretion, good faith, and reasonable diligence, was a question
that should have been submitted to the jury. If the delay
was unreasonable, if it was in Violation of the plaintiflW'
duty as factors, they, rather than the defendant, should bear
the loss that resulted from it. Such was. the instruction the
defendant sought to obtain by his third prayer; but it was
denied, and the jury were charged that he must bear' all
losses sustained after his refusal to answer the plaintiffs'
letter, without excepting such portion of the loss as may
have been caused by the fault of the plaintiffs. Herein we
think was error.

152

BANK OF THE REPUBLIC V. MILLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It is true the court also charged that, as a general principle, the plaintiffs, as factors, were bound to use due diligence, care, and skill in the sale of the cotton, and to obey
instructions given them by the defendant in regard to the
sale. But this was not said as a qualification of the specific
instructions previously given, and the jury must have understood that if they found the facts as stated by the court,
they must charge the defendant with all the loss which
accrued after his failure to answer the plaintiffs' letter.
The judgment must, therefore, be
REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

BANK OF THE REPUBLIC V. MILLARD.
1. The holder of a bank check cannot sue the bank for refusing payment in
the absence of proof that it was adcepted by the bank or charged against
the drawer.
2. The fact that the check was properly drawn on a National bank (a public
depositary) by an officer of the government in favor of a public creditor,
does not alter' this general rule.

IN errorto the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
the case being this:
Millard, a captain in the military service of the United
States, was, in 1865, on leaving the service, a creditor of the
government for $859, arrears of pay as captain. In settlement of this account the proper paymaster of the army drew
and issued a check for that sum upon The National Bank
of the Republic, a depositary of public moneys and financial
agent of the United States, for the custody, transfer, and disbursement of the government funds, having funds for the
payment of the check.
Tile bank, as testimony tended to show, had once paid the
check on a forged indorsement of Millard's name. Ascertaining and exposing. the forgery, and recovering possession
of the check, Millard' now presented the same, demanding

