Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Syllabus.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

THE BUTCHERS' BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION OF NEW ORLEANS V.
THE CRESCENT CITY LIVE-STOCK LANDING AND SLAUGHTERHOUSE COMPANY.
SAME DEFENDANTS V. SAME PLAINTIFFS.
ITOTAIR IMBAU ET AL. V. THE CRESCENT CITY LIVE-STOCK
LANDING AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSE COMPANY.
THE LIVE-STOCK DEALERS'

AND BUTCHERS'

ASSOCIATION OF

NEW ORLEANS v. THE CRESCENT CITY LIVE-STOCK LANDING
AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSE COMPANY.
PAUL ESTEBEN ET AL. V. THE STATE OF LOUISIANA, EX RELATIONE.
1. A writ of error has the effect to remove the record into the court granting the writ, and when the conditions prescribed in the 23d section of
the Judiciary Act are complied with, the jurisdiction of the subordinate court is suspended until the cause is remanded from the appellate
tribunal.
2. Neither appeals nor writs of error become a supersedeas and stay execution by virtue merely of process issued by this court ; but this effect is
derived from the Judiciary Act on complying with its conditions.
8. When these conditions are complied with, if the subordinate court proceeds thereafter to issue final process, it is competent for this court, in
the exercise of its appellate pqwer, to correct the error by a supersedeas,
and this may be done though the application for the supersedens is made
before the reti rn day of the writ of error.
4. Where injunctions had been granted in the District Court of the State
of Louisiana, and suspensive appeals had been taken to the Supreme
Court of the State, where the decrees granting the injunctions had been
affirmed, and a writ of error under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act sued out to that judgment of affirmance, the writ of error and bond,
though filed within ten days of the affirmance, did not authorize this
court to enjoin or supersede the action of the District Court in giving
effect to the said injunctions subsequent to the issuing of the writ of
error. The supersedeas of the act operated alone upon the Supreme
Court of the State to which the writ of error is directed under the said
26th section.
5. The appeals from the District to the Supreme Court of the State operated
as a stay of execution, and suspended all jurisdiction to proceed further
until the cause was remanded. But when the Supreme Court rendered
VOL. X.

18

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
its final judgment and perpetuated the injunction, whatever conditions
were annexed to the appeal were abrogated, as the appeal was then fully
executed.
6. A writ of error to a State qourt cannot have any greater effect than if the
judgment or decree had been rendered or passed in a Circuit Court;
and neither an injunction nor a decree dissolving an injunction passed
in a Circuit Court is reversed or nullified by an appeal or writ of error
before the cause is heard in this court.
THESE were motions made at the close of this term (December, 1869), in behalf of several plaintiffs in error, to
enforce the supersedeas on writs Qf error which had issued
in five several cases to the Supreme Court of the State of
L6uisiana, returnable to the term now coming (December,
1870), of this court.
The case was this:
By the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, this
court has power, on writ of error, to re-examine afinaljudgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of law or
equity of a State in which a decision in the suit could be
had, "where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of,
or an authority exercised under, any State, on the grotnd
of their being repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, and the decision is in favor of such their validty."
By this same section the writ of error to such Supreme Court
of the State "shall have the same effect as if the judgment
or decree complained of had been rendered or passed by a
Circuit Court."
By a prior section of the act (the 22d) it is enacted that
"final judgments and decrees in civil actions and suits in

equity in Circuit Courts . . . may be re-examined, and re-

versed, or affirmed in the Supreme Court, a citation to
the adverse party being in such case signed by a judge of
such Circuit Court, or justice of the Supreme Court, and the
adverse party having at least thirty days' notice." The same
section proceeds:
"And writs of error shall not be brought but within five years
after rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained
of. And every justice or judge signing a citation on any writ

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

OASES.

Statement of the case.

of error, shall- take good and sufficient security that the plaintiff
inerror shall prosecute his writ to effect," &c.
A following section (the 23d), declarinig the eftect of a writ
of error to a judgment in a Circuit Court, says:
"That a writ of error, as aforesaid, shall be a supersedeas and
stay execution in cases only where the writ is served, by a copy
thereof' being lodged for the adverse party in the clerk's office,
within ten days after rendering the judgment or passing the
decree Aomplaincd of. Until the expiration of which term of
ten days execution shall iot issue in any case where a writ of
error may be a supersedeas."
The same act of 1789 provides, by its fourteenth section,
that this court "shall have power to issue writs of scirefacias,
habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially provided for
by statutes, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the principles and usages.
of law."
An act, however, of March 2d, 1793, entitled "An act ' in
addition' to the act" above quoted, of 1789, thus declares:
"Writs of ne exeat and injunction may be granted by any
judge of the Supreme Court in cases where they might be
granted by the Supreme or a Circuit Court; but no writ of ne
exeat shall be granted unless a suit in equity be commenced
and satisfactory proof made that the defendant designs quickly
to depart from the United States; nor shall a writ of injunction
be granted to stay proceedings in any court of a State."
These statutory enactments being in force, the legislature
of Louisiana, A.D. 1869, in professed exercise of its power
to protect the health, promote the cleanliness, and regulate
the police of the city of New Orleans, passed an act by which
itordered all animals imported for consumption in the city
to be lauded at certain places, and all intended for food to
be slaughtered there, and for the purpose of executing this
law conferred on seventeen persons, as a company, the exclusive right to maintain landings for cattle and to erect
slaughter-houses, &c., chartering them under the name of

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The Crescent City Live-stock Landing and Slau'ghter-house
Company.
The plaintiffs in error, being different individuals and
companies, undertaking or continuing to maintain other
landings and slaughtering houses, in opposition to those of
the chartered company, that company filed petitions in certain of the District Courts of the State asserting their right
to the monopoly conferred by the act, and obtained preliminary injunctions against these different parties and associations prohibiting the use of the landings and the exercise
of the business of slaughtering as infringing upon the exclusive right which the new company claimed under the act.
These injunctions, upon the hearing of exceptions and answers, were perpetuated.
In other of the District Courts of the State, those who
asserted that the act was a violation of their rights also filed
petitions against the company, upon which prelinrinary injunctions were perpetuated in favor of the petitioners.
The ground maintained against the act was, that it violated the fburteenth amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares that " no State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State
deprive any person of liberty or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction

the equal protection of the laws."
These conflicting decrees in the District Courts were all
taken by what are known in Louisiana as " suspensive appeals" to the Supreme Court of the State, where judgment
in all was given in favor of the new company, which asserted
the validity of the act. And to these judgments of the Supreme Court of the State writs of error were taken from
this court under the already-mentioned 25th section of the
Judiciary Act; the writs of error, service citation, bond, &c.,
being all regularly taken and made, and filed within the ten
days prescribed by the 23d section, which prevents the writ
of error from operating as a supersedeas and stay of execution unless these be taken within that time.

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Statement of the case.

Before the judgments here complained of were rendered
in the Supreme Court of Louisiana, the legislature of that
State created a new court, known as the Eighth District
Court of New Orleans, giving to it exclusive original jurisdiction in cases of injunction, and authorizing the removal
of such cases into it from other courts.
The parties denying the rights of the new company to the
exclusive privileges granted to it by the act of 1869, being,
after the writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court
of the State, about to proceed to the landing and killing of
cattle, &c., in disregard of the injunction, which, as they
asserted, was superseded by the writ of error taken from
this court, the attorney-general of Louisiana, now intervening on what till now had been a litigation between citizens
in a question of private right, moved in this new court in
one of the cases here the subject of writ of error to enforce
the judgment rendered on appeal to the Supreme Court of
the State making perpetual the injunction originally granted
by the court from which the cause was removed; but the
new court refused to grant this motion on the gro und that
the writ of error sued out to this court (the Supreme Court
of the United States) operated -as a supersedeas under the
23d section of'the Judiciary Act. But it did enforce the
prelininary injunctions granted by those District Courts
which thought that injunctions ought to be granted; and,
in addition, upon a petition in proceedings of au original
character, instituted by the new corporation, and afterwards
adopted by the attorney-general as representing the State,
to which proceedings none of the- plaintiffs in error in these
present cases were parties, but which were directed against
the corporation of New Orletins and the board of metropolitan police there, the new court ordered the city and the
board of police to prevent all persons except the new company from landing or slaughtering cattle or selling animal
meat for food.
In this state of things the plaintiffs in error in the five
several cases (here designated generally and by their popular name as "The Slaughter-house Cases," but of which

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the exclusive right.

the specific names are also given at the beginning of' the
case, on p. 273) filed petitions in this court setting forth the
general history of things below, the fact that they had obtained writs of error, &c., within ten days, so as to remove
the causes to this court and to be a supersedeas to a)y execution; that after this had been done the defendants in error,
to defeat the operatioh of the writs and in disobedience
of the supersedeas, applied to the Eighth District Court for
orders of the sort already described to prevent all persons
(except the defendants) from landin~g, keeping, or slaughtering any cattle; that the orders were granted as asked for,
and had been executed so as to prevent the plaintiffs in error
from having any benefit of the supersedeas to which they
were entitled, and so far as the orders were on the original
proceedings had in effect turned the corporation of New
Orleans and the metropolitan board of police into sheriffs to
enforce the judgments of courts which had been superseded
by the writs of error. All of which would appear, the petitioners asserted, from the record of the proceedings in the
Eighth District Court, and the affidavits on file with the
same, submitted with the petition.
The motion in this court therefore was for an order of
injunction and supersedeas to command the defendants in
error and the city of New Orleans, the metropolitan board
of police, in no manner to hinder or to prevent the plaintiffi
in error from landing or slaughtering animals, or of having,
keeping, or establishing landings or slaughter-houses, or for
vending animal food in the markets of New Orleans, as
fully as they could before the passage of the act of 1869,
incorporating the defendants, or as the defendants were
allowed to do by the said act, and that a suitable order
might be made to the said Eighth District Court to prohibit
itsfrom further proceeding in the premises.
Messrs. J. A. Campbell, P.Phillips,and J. Q. A. Fellows, in
sup)port of the motion:
In England the altowance of the writ of error suspends all
further proceedings in a cause, and on motion such proceed-

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-H1OUSE CASES.

279

Argument against the exclusive right.

ings will be set aside. The service of notice of the allowance is only material to bring the party into contempt if he
proceed subsequently.* In one caset it was held to be a
contempt in the attorney in taking out execution against
bail to the action, though this was merely collateral to the
judgment on which the pending writ of error operated.
The effect of an appeal, though taken from a mere interlocutory order, was originally maintained by the House of
Lords to suspend all proceedings whatever until the decision
of the Lords on the appeal. In 1772 this was so far modified as to allow the appeal to be a superseceas only as to the
matter appealed from ; and the Chancellor was permitted,
during the recess of Parliament, to take such proceedings
pending the appeal as were requisite for the preservation
of the rignts of the parties. In 1807, the rule, as it now
exists, was adopted, to wit, that the appeal did not operate,
of itself, a suspension of any proceedings. But this suspension was allowed, in whole or in part, by the appellate
court, or by the Chancellor, according to the exigency of
the case.t
The Judiciary Act of 1789 found the rule, as established
in England in 1772, in full operation, and has dealt with
the whole subject. The writ may be sued out at any time
within five years from the rendering of the judgment or
decree; but when taken within tenl days thereafter, the
statute declares that it "shall be a supersedeas and slay cxecution."
The supersedeas thus given will be protected and enforced
by this court by virtue of its inhlerent powers as an appellate tribunal. The motion to quash an execution issued
after the allowance and filing of the writ of error might be
made in the court below. But it is equally competent for
this court, in the furtherance of justice, to do the same
*Miller
v. Newbald, 1 East, 662; Sampson v. Brown, 2 Id. 439;
Meagher v. Vandyck, 2 Bosanquet and Puller, 370 ;. Dudley v.Stokes, 2 W.
Blackstone, 1183; Jacques v.Nixon, 1 Term, 280.
t Throckmorton v. Church, 1 Peere Williams, 685.
: Hart v. Mayor, 3 Paige, 883.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[SLIP. Ct.

Argument against the exclusive right.

thing. The supersedeas order is directed not only to the
parties and the exebutive officers, but also to the judges of
the court.*
"It is a well-settled rule," say the Supreme Court of
Louisiana,t "that after a cause is sent to this court by regular appeal, the court of the first instance can no longer take
any steps iii the case except such as may be necessary to
transmit the record to the court above."
Decisions in Louisiana demonstrate that the cases now
before this court were proper cases for suspensive appeals.
In one cades the petitioner, asserting himself to be chief
of police, in another§ to be sheriff, filed his petition for
injunction against the incumbents. The petitions were
granted, and orders restraining the parties incumbent from
a further performance of official duties, and for delivery up
of books, &c., pertaining to their offices, were made a part
of the injunctive orders. Suspensive appeals were prayed
for and denied in the court below, but on petition for mandamus the Supreme Court of the State made the rule peremptory, holding that the right to such an appeal had been
constantly recognized; and a careful examination of th.
Code of Practice shows that the right to a suspensive appeal
is the rule, and that it stays proceedings, save in oases specially excepted.
It would seem to be a mere conceit (though this was the
idla of the Court of the Eighth District), that the matter
appealed from was the perpetuated injunction, and that the
appeal did not reach the preliminary injunction. Of what
consequence to the defendant is his suspensive appeal, what
rights does it preserve, if this be its true operation ? The
ex parte order for injunction is subsequently declared to be
perpetuated. It is one and the same injunction. The right
of the defendant, under the suspensive appeal, is the right
"Stockton v.Bishop, 2 Howard, 74; Hardeman v. Anderson, 4 Id. 648;
Ex parte Milwaukee, 5 Wallace, 188; Railroad Company v. Bradleys, 7
Id. 577.
' State v.Judge, 19 Louisiana, 168..
: Ex rel. Ingram v.Judge, 20 Annual, 530.
Ex rel. Cain v. Judge, Ib. 574.

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Argument for the new company.

not to be disturbed until he can get the judgment of the
appellate court; and if, notwithstanding the appeal, he can
be ousted, of what consequence is it that this is done on the
preliminary, and not on the final order? If the appeal does
not protect his possession, then it is not suspensive.
In a judicial sense the judgment below was not affihmed,
for this was the question which the law had transferred for
decision to this court. In other words, the case stood as if
the Act of 1789 bad brought the case up from the decree
of the District Court directly.
The Eighth District Court, of whose action we complain,
admits that the judgment of the Supreme Court was superseded, and refused a motion on that ground to make that.
judgment executory, and yet gave execution on the preliminary order on what we have attempted to show was an
unfounded distinction. If, therefore, the writ of error had
been directly addressed to the District Court, and pending
the cause in this court the court of first instance had proceeded to execute the injunction, we cannot doubt that the
motion to set aside such proceedings would be granted. It
would seem to follow that the same motion must be granted
when the Supreme Court is intermediary.
Messrs. Black, Durant, Carpenter, and Allen, contra:
1. Writs of error to reverse judgments at law rest on a different basis from writs of error brought for the purpose of
obtaining a revision of a case by the Supreme Court of the
United States. Supersedeas is a law term, and has no application to a chancery proceeding.
2. In the English chancery practice the question whether
an appeal shall stay proceedings rests much in the discretion
of the tribunal from which the appeal is taken; and it is conimon to make special application to that tribunal, either to
stay further proceedings or to pass an order that proceedings
shall not be stayed. Such was the course in the recent
English case, Barrs v. Fewkes.* The application was made
1 Law Reports (Eq,), 392.
8 Chan. 664.

See, also, Harrington v. Harrington, 1b.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. (?t.

Argument for the new company.

to the court appealed from. The general rule is, that an
appeal will not stay proceedings.*
3. Under the practice by which causes are removed from
State courts to this court, the removal is in the nature of an
appeal. It is a continuation of the same litigation, not a
new suit, as a writ of error at common law. The mode of
removal is only a matter of form. The substance of the
matter is, that the cause is brought before a supervising
tribunal for revision; and the jurisdiction of the United
States Court is in its nature appellate.t The writ of error,
therefore, is olnly a new stage in the cause; and accordiugly
an injunction should continue in three until the determination upon the writ of error, which is the ultinmate determination of the original suit.t
4. It is impossible to suppose that there should not be
authority in a court of equity, by a decree, to bold matters
in a certain fixed position until the ultimate determination
of the cause. In many cases, where, if the injunction is suspended while the appeal or writ of error is pending, all the
mischief will be done which is sought to be prevented: as,
ex. yr., in an injunction to stay waste by cutting down trees,
the trees will be cut; in an injunction to restrain a iiuisance
-ftecting health, to abate and suppress a source of disease,
disease and death will prevail; in an injunction to restrais
the marriage of a ward, an irretrievable mischief may occur
ateoce ; in an injunction to restrain the publication of priSee General Order in House of Lords in 1807, copied in 15 Vesey, 184;
Gwynn v. Lethbridge, 14 Id. 585; Willan v. Willan, 16 Id. 216; St. Paul's
v.
Morris,3 9 Id. 316; Waldo v. Caley, 16 Id. 209; Hart v. May,or, &c., of
Albany,
Paige, Ch. 381, where there is some account
of the English practice; also, Walburn v. Ingilby, 1 Mylne & Keene, 61.
t Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheaton, 349, 350; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Id. 410;
Nations v. Johnsoni, 24 Howard, 204, 205; Bryan v. Bates, 12 Allen, 213.
T Hart v. Mayor, &c., of Albany, 3 Paige, 381 ; Graves v. Maguire, 6 Id.
881; Stone v. Carlan,'2 Sandford's Sup. Ct. 738; Mercbd Mining Co. v. Fremont, 7 California, 131;. Spring ,. South Carolina Ins. Co., 6 Wheaton, 519;
Thompson v. McKim, 6 Harris and Johnson, 30!, 881-334; Williamson v.
Carnan, 1 Gill and Johnson, 184, 202, 203, ,209, 210; Boren v. Chisholm, 3
Alabama, 513; Garrow v. Carpenter, 4 Stdwart and Porter, 336; Coleman
v. Albany Bridge, 6 Blatchford, 58.

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Argument for the new company.

vate letters, or any libellous matter, or to restrain the disclosure of secrets, the knowledge of which was gained in the
course of a confidential employment, or anything else, the
doing of which consists of a single act, if' the injunction is
suspended, then the whole equitable remedy is in vain.
5. So in cases at law, suppose articles have been seized
on a search warrant; stolen goods, counterfeit coin, forged
bank: notes, implements for counterfeiting, which State laws
may authorize to be seized and held for condemnation and
fbrfeiture ; and a restoration to the owner (in case of stolen
goods), or a condemnation and forfeiture and destruction of
them, have been decreed. If a writ of error is sued out,
that supersedes the final order of restoration to the owner,
or condemnation ; but shall the articles theretre be given
up to the person who had the guilty possession of them, or
shall they still be held in the custody of the law ?
6. It must be the case that there is power in a court of'
equity, and also, when necessary, in a court of law, to pass
orders which shall have the effect to hold things as they are,
and prevent any subsequent change in the situation of things
which shall be disastrous to the plaintiff; or to the public,
and fhtal to the relief which is sought. The law of Louisiana
is very explicit in this regard.,
7. What power, then, has the Supreme Court of the
United States in the premises?
It has power to take such measures as may be necessary
to preserve the condition of things which existed just prior
to the passing of the final decree in the court below. The
supersedeas attaches to so much of the final sentence as
,determines the ultimate rights of the party.t
8. Only final judgments and decrees can be re-examined
and reversed on writs of error. The cases are nutnerouM
where this court has refused to entertain any applicatioln to
" See Louisiana C. P., art. 307; Delacroix v. Villere, 11 Louisiana
Annual, pp. 39 to 41; White v. Cazenavo, 14 Id. 57; Knabe v. Fernot, 14
Id. 847.
t Bryan v. Bates, 12 Allen, 213; Nauer v. Thomas, 13 Id. 574; Fleming
v. Clark, 12 Id. 191.

284

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

deal with preliminary decrees. A striking case, in some
respects analogous to the present, was that of Gibbonss v.
Ogden.*
9. The 23d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 recognizes that preliminary injunctions shall stand. The statute
provides that a writ of error shall be "a supersedeas and stay
of execution, in case," &c. Executions are not to issue;
that is, precepts to enforce the final judgment of the State
courts are not to issue. It is only the final and ultimate
rights, and not the incidental rights of parties, that writs of
error are designed to vindicate.
10. The present motions are premature; for the writs of
error are not returnable till the first day of next *term.
11. The Act of 1793 forbids the granting of injunctions
"to stay proceedings in any court of a State."t
Reply: 1. Delgying a motion for a supersedeas till the
return day of the writ of error would frequently render the
application fruitless. Sfuch is not the practice.1
2. The power given to this court by the Act of f789 to
issue all writs necessary fbr its jurisdiction is not take4
away by the Act of 1793, which limits the writ of ne ex2at,
and restrains the issuing of an injunction to a State court to
stay proceedings. There are no repealing words in this
statute, and repeals by implication are not favored.§ , The
title of the act shows that no repeal was intended.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated thb case in detail, and delivered the opinion of the court.
All persons and Iorporations, except- the Crescent City
Live-stock Landing and Slaughter-house Company, are prohibited, by an act passed by the legislature of the State of
6 Wheaton, 448; see, alsc?, Verden v. Coleman, 18 Howard, 86; Boyle
v. ZachariO, 6 Peters, 656.
t See supra, p. 275.

: Ex parte Milwaukee, 5 Wallace, 188; Railroad' Co. v. Bradleys, 7
Id. 677.

Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wallace, 105.

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHT.9R-HOUSE

CASES.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Louisiana, to land, keep, or slaughter any cattle, beeves,
calves, sheep, swine, or other animals, or to have, keep, or
establish any stock-landings, yards, pens, slaughter-houses,
or abattoirs at any point or place within the city of New
Orleans or the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard, or at any place on the east bank of the river within
the corporate limits of the city, or at any point on the west
bank of the same above the railroad, depot therein mentioned and designated.
Said act was passed on the eighth day of March, 1869,
and is entitled An act to prbtect the health of the city of
New Orleans, to locate the stock-landings and slaughterhouses, and to incorporate "the Crescent City Live-stock
Though apLanding and Slaughter-house Company."
proved on the day mentioned, still the act did not go into
operation till the first lay of June following, but it appearing that the company created and organized under the act
intended to enforce the prohibition,the plaintiffs in the suit
first mentioned, on the twenty-sixth of. May of that year,
filed a petition or bill of complaint in the Sixth District
Court of New Orleans against that company, alleging that
for more than thirty years past there had existed in the
parish of Orleans and the adjacent parishes the lawful trade
of butchering domestic animals to supply with meat the
markets of the city and the adjacent parishes, and that the
regular pursuit of that trade involved the necessity of collecting, feeding, and sheltering such animals before they
were slaughtered, and of preparing and preserving their
meat for use or sale for food, and their hides, tallow, and
other valuable parts of the animals for the market; that a
thousand persons throughout that period have been engaged
in that trade without interruption and unmolested prior to
the organization of that company'by any ordinance, regulation, or enactmert from any public authority; that they,
the petitioners, are duly incorporated under a law of the
State, and that for more than two years they have been and
are in the lawful exercise of that trade and employment,
and that they have constructed and erected for that pur-

286

SLAUGH'rER-HoUSH CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

pose, and now hold within those parishes, places for landing cattle and for sheltering the same, and slaughter-houses
for butchering the animals for market, and have secured
stalls and such other privileges in the market-places as are
nec essary and convenient to the prosecution of the business;
that the respondents, though they must well know that the
act is in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
openly declare that it is their intention to execute its provisions and to compel the complainants to abandon the
objects of their incorporation, and to destroy the value of
their investmtts, and render it necessary for them to relinquish their lawful pursuit and the prosecution of their legitimate business.
Wherefore they pray that the respondents may be enjoined
from any such interference with the petitioners, and from
interfering, directly or indirectly, by suit or otherwise, with
their customers in purchasing, slaughtering, or butchering
animals of any kind used fo' meat, during the pendency of
the suit, and also for process, and that they, the complainants, may have judgment against the respondents in damages
for the surn of ten thousand dollars.
On the same day the respondents in that suit instituted in
the Fifth District Court of New O'leans a counter suit
against the complainants in the suit commenced against
them in the Sixth District Court of the same municipality.
They allege in their petition that " the sole and exclusive
privilege of conducting and carrying on the live-stock landing and slaughter-house business in that city and its environs
is vested in their company, as is fully set forth in the act of
their incorporation ; that the corporation named in their
petition, as respondents, are about to land, shelter, and protect cattle, &c., intended for slaughter, and to conduct and
carry on the live-stock landing and slaughter-house business
within the limits of the city as prohibited by law and in
violation of their exclusive rights and privileges. Wheretore they pray that the respondents, the complainants in the
suit pending in the Sixth District Court, may be enjoined
and prohibited from landing, stabling, and sheltering cattle,

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Restatement of the casn in the opinion.

&c., and other animals destined for sale and slaughter in
that city, and from conducting and carrying on the live-stock
landing and slaughter-house business within the limits of'
the parishes described in their charter, and from molesting
and interfering with the petitioners in the exercise and
enjoyment of their exclusive rights and privileges; and they
also claim damages in the sum of four thousand dollars,
and for general relief."
Judgment in the first suit was rendered for the petitioners,
and it was ordered that the injunction previously issued in
the case against the respondents should be made perpetual.
Pursuant to the suggestion of the respondents in that case,
that there was error to their prejudice in the final judgment
of the Sixth District Court, it was ordered " that a suspensive appeal be granted herein to the defendants, returnable
to the Supreme Court of the State."
Hearing was also had in the suit commenced in the Fifth
District Court by the Crescent City Live-stock Landing and
Slaughter-house Company against The Butchers' Benevolent Association of New Orleans, and it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed in that case that there be judgment in
favor of the petitioners, and that the corporation respondents, their president and members, be forever enjoined and
prohibited, as prayed in the petition.
Exceptions having been filed to certain rulings of tne
court, it was also ordered, on motion of the respondents,
that they, the respondents, be allowed a suspensive appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State, as in the preceding case.
Separate suits were also commenced in the Seventh District Court of the city against the Crescent City Live-_tock
Landing and Slaughter-house Company by Iotair Imbau et
al., and by the Live-stock Dealers', and Butchers' Association of New Orleans, as appears by the transcripts filed
here in those cases. Injunctions were prayed and granted
against the respondents in both of those cases, and they, the
respondents, were allowed suspensive appeals to the Supreme
Court of the State from the respective judgments.
Suit was also commenced in behalf of the State by the

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Attorney-General against Paul Esteben et al., in which it
is alleged that they have, without authority of law, formed
themselves into a corporation by the name of the Live-stock
Dealers' and Butchers' Association of New Orleans; that
they, as such corporation, are about to lease or purchase a
certain tract of land partly in the city and partly in the
parish of St. Bernard, and that they are about to commence
the erection of buildings and structures thereon for the
purpose of collecting, landing, and sheltering beef-cattle
designed for food, to be sold in the parishes of Orleans,
Jeffirson, and St. Bernard, contrary to the act of the General Assembly of the State. Wherefore the petitioner prays
that a writ of injutnction may issue restraining and enjoining the respondents from using that tract of land for the
purpose set forth in the petition and from slaughtering any
beef-cattle or any other animals intended to be sold for food
in those parishes. Final. judgment in the case was rendered il fvor of the State, and it was also ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that the respondents be forever enjoined and
restrained, as prayed by the petition. Attempt was made
by the respondents to secure a rehearing, but the motion
was denied, and on their petition it was ordered that they
be allowed a suspensi e appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State, as in the preceding cases.
These several appeals, together with one other which it
is unnecessary to describe, were duly entered in the Supreme Court of the State, and were, by the written agreement. of the parties, submitted for decision at the same time.
They were submitted on the twenty-eighth of January, 1870,
and the opinion of the appellate court was delivered on the
eleventh of April following. Pursuant'to that opinion the
judgment of the Sixth District Court, as rendered in the
first case, was reversed, and the directions of the Supreme
Court of, the State were that the injunction granted by the
subordinate court should be dissolved, and that the demand
of the petitioners should be rejected with costs in both
courts. They also rendered a judgment of reversal in the
same form and with the same directions in the third and

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

fourth cases, being the two appeals from the judgments rendered in the Seventh District Court. Judgments of affirmance were also rendered on the same day in the second and
fifth cases, in the order herein adopted, with costs of appeal.
Where the decision in the court below sustained the
pretensions of the Crescent City Live-stock Landing and
Slaughter-house Company the judgment of the subordinate
court was affirmed, but the judgment of the subordinate
court was reversed in each case where the decision of the
subordinate court was adverse to those pretensions, and the
injunctions in those cases were dissolved.
Petitions for rehearing were filed by the losing parties,
on the twenty-sixth of April, 1870, and on the ninth of
May following an en'try was made in each case, that the
petition for rehearing was refused. Writs of error to the
State court were subsequently prayed by the same parties,
and on the thirteenth of May last the writs of' error were
allowed by the Associate Justice of this court allotted to
that circuit, and they were duly filed on the sixteenth day
of the same month, as appears of record.
Filed, as the writs of error were, within ten days from
the date of the entry refusing the petition for rehearing, it is
claimed by the plaintiffs that the several writs of error operate as a supersedeas and stay execution, under the twentythird sectioti of the Judiciary Act. Doubts were at one time
entertained upon that subject, but since the decision in the
case of Brockelt v. Brockett,* the question must be considered
as settled, in accordance with the views of the plaintifis.t
Sufficient bonds were given in each of these cases, which
is necessary in every case, in order that the appeal or writ
of error may operate as a supersedeas and stay execution
on judgments removed into this court for re-examination.
What is necessary is that the bond shall be sufficient, and
when it is desired that the appeal or writ of error shall
operate as a supersedeas the bond must be given within ten
days from the date of the decree orjudgment.1
2 Howard, 238.
VOL. X.

t Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 6 Wallace, 166.
19

1 lb.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Suppose the writs of error were seasonably sued out and
that they operate in each case as a supersedeas and stay execution, as provided in the twenty-third section of the Judiciary Act, still the court is of the opinion that the several
motions under consideration must be denied upon other
grounds, and for reasons which are entirely satisfactory.
Controversies determined in a State court which are subject to re-examination in this court, are such, and such only
as involve some one or more of the questions enumerated
and described in the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, and which have passed to final judgment or decree in
the highest court of law or equity of a State iul which a
decision in the suit could be had, as provided by the constitution and laws of the State. Appeals were taken in the
cases before the court from the respective District Courts,
where they were commenced, to the Supreme Court of that
State before the writs of error granted by this court were
sued out, and the decrees or judgments brought here for
e-examination are the final decrees or judgments of the
Supreme Court of the State in those cases.
Writs of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act have the same effect as if the judgments or
decrees were rendered in a Circuit Court, and they operate
as a supersedeas and stay execution only where the writ of
error is served by a copy thereof being lodged for the adverse party in the clerk's office where the record remains,
within ten days, Sundays exclusive, from the date of the
judgment or decrec.*
Such a writ of error is in the nature of a commission by
Which the judges of one court are authorized to examine a
record upon which a judgment or decree was given in
another court, and on such exanlination to reverse or affirm
that judgment or decree. When regular in fbrm, and duly
served, the writ of error operates upon the record of the
court to which it is addressed in the case described in the
writ, and it has the effect to remove that record into the
* 1 Stat. at Large, 85.

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

court granting the writ of error and to submit it to reexamination, and the twenty-third section of the Judiciary
Act provides to the effect that where all the conditions prescribed in that section concur in the case the jurisdiction of
the court where the record remained when the writ of error
was sued out and served shall be suspended until the cause
is determined by or remanded from the appellate tribunal.*
Exceptional cases arise where the judgment or decree
given on appeal in the highest court of a State is required
by the law of the State to be returned to the subordinate
court for execution, and in such cases it is held that the writ
of error from this court may operate as a supersedeas, if
granted and served at any time within ten days from the
return entry of the proceedings in the court from which the
record was removed, but in all other cases the writ of error
must be issued and served within ten days from the date of
the judgment or decree, in order that it may operate as a
supersedeas and stay execution.t
Appeals and writs of error do not become a supersedeas
and stay execution in the court where the judgment or
decree remains by virtue of any process issued by this court
merely as such, but they are constituted such by the act of
Congress when the conditions prescribed in the twenty-third
section of the Judiciary Act are fulfilled. Where those conditions are complied with the'act of Congress operates to
suspend the jurisdiction of the court to which the writ of
error is addressed, and stay execution in the case pending
the writ of error and until the case is determined or remanded.1
Power to issue a supersedeas to a judgment rendered in a
subordinate court does not exist in this court where the writ
of error is not sued out and served within ten days from the
* Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheaton, 410; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Howard,
437; Barton v. Forsyth, 5 Wallace, 192.
.t McGuire v. Commonwealth, 8 Wallace, 386; Gelston v. Hoyt, 3

Wheaton, 246; Green v. Van Buskerk, 3 Wallace. 450.
J Hogan v. Ross, 11 Howard, 296; United States v. Addison, 22 Id.

Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, 18 Id. 535; Adams v. Law, 16 Id. 148.

183;

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

date of the judgment, except where the aggrieved party is
obliged to sue out a second writ of error inconsequence of
the neglect of the clerk below to send up the record in season, or where the granting of such a writ is necessary to
the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of the court, as
where the subordinate court improperly rejected the sureties to the bond because they were not residents of the
district.*
Undoubtedly the writs of error in these cases were seasonably sued out and served, and it is equally clear that the
parties in whose favor they were granted complied in each
case with all the conditions prescribed in the act of Congress
as necessary to give the writ effect as a supersedeas and stay
execution, as contended by the plaintiffs in the pending motions. Such proceedings operate as a stay of execution,
and it is well settled that if the subordinate court, under
such circumstances, proceeds to issue final process, it is competent for this court to issue a supersedeas, as an exercise of
appellate power, to correct the error.t
Doubt upon that subject cannot-be entertained where it
appears that the court to which the writ of error was directed
has made the return of the same to the proper term of the
court, pursuant to the commands of the writ, and the same
has been duly entered on the calendar. Objection is made,
however, that the motions before the court are premature,
as the return day of the writ of error is the first day of the
next term, but we are of the opinion that the court possesses
the power to grant a remedy in such a case even .befbre the
return day of the writ of error, where it appears that the
court to which it was addressed has made return to the
same, and that tWe plaintiff has filed in the clerk's office a
copy of the record duly certilied as required by law.
Except in a case of urgent necessity the court, in the exHogan ?. Ross, 11 Howard, 296; Ex parte Milwaukee Railroad Co., 6
Wallace, 188;\ Stockton et al. v. Bishop, 2 Howard, 74; Wallen v. Williams,
7 Cranch, 279, Saltinarsh v. Tuthill, 12 Howard, 889; Hardeman v. Anderson, 4 Id. 640.
f Stockton et al. v. Bishop, 2 Howard, 76.

Dec. 1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

ercise of a proper discretion, might well decline to exercise
the power before the return day of the writ, but the better
opinion, we think, is that the jurisdiction for such a purpose
attaches from the time the party in whose favor the writ of
error is granted has complied with all the conditions prescribed in the act of Congress to make the writ of error
operate as a supersedeas and stay of execution.*
Grant all this, still the court is of the opinion that the
motions cannot be granted, as it is conceded that nothing
has been done by the Supreme Court of the State since the
writs of error were served and became a supersedeas, inconsistent with the prohibition contained in the act of Congress
which gives the writs of error that effect. Argument upon
that topic is unnecessary as the affidavits filed in support of
the motions affirm nothing of the kind, nor do the plaintiffs
set up any such theory.
Incorporated as the respondents in the motions are by the
General Assembly of the State, they claim the sole and exclusive privilege of conducting and carrying on the livestock landing and slaughter-house business within the limits
described and the privileges granted in the act giving them
corporate powers. On the other hand, the plaintiffs contend
that the act granting them such exclusive privileges is in
violation of the Constitution of the United States, and void,
and-that they, the plaintiffs, have equal right to establish a
live-stock landing, and to erect slaughter-houses, and to
conduct and carry on that business as if no such special
privileges had been granted to the respondents.
Injunctions were obtained by each party against the other
in the courts where tho suits were commenced, but appeal
was taken, in each case, by the losing party, to the Supreme
Court of the State, where the injunctions previously granted
against the respondents in the motions were dissolved and
those previously granted against the plaintiffs were made.
perpetual. Judgments of reversal on the one side and of
affirmance on the other were accordingly rendered by the
Railroad Co. v. Bradleys, 7 Wallace,

675.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Supreme Court of the State in the respective causes, as before explained, and it is to those judgments and to that
court that the writs of error in question were directed and
addressed. Those judgments remained in the Supreme
Court of the State when the respective writs of error were
sued out and became a supersedeas and stay of execution,
and the records show that that court has neither reversed
nor modified the judgments, nor any one of them, nor has
that court done anything to vary or impair the rights of
the parties or to carry the judgments into effect.
Subsequent to the commencement of these several suits,
but before the judgments were rendered in the Supreme
Court, the General Assembly of the State created another
court in that city, called the Eighth District Court, and conferred upon that tribunal the exclusive original jurisdiction
of injunction causes, and also made provision in the same
act for the removal of such causes from other courts to that
jurisdiction.
Supersedeas writs of error having been sued out by the
plaintiffs to the respective judgments rendered in the Supreme Court, they claimed that the injunctions against them
granted by that co.urt were inoperative, and their theory was
and still is that the writs of error had the effect to dissolve
or suspend the injunctions granted by the Supreme Court
of the State and to restore and render operative the injunctions decreed in the subordinate courts.
Governed by these views, the plaintiffs denied that the
respondents could claim to exercise any such exclusive privileges as those described in their charter, and proceeded to
make the necessary preparations for carrying on the same
business. Opposite views were entertained by the respondent corporation and by the State autl~orities, and especially
by the attorney-general, and for the purpose of testing the
question he moved in the Fifth District Court that the fifth
case embraced in the motions, as here classified,. should be
removed into the Eighth District Court, and the motion
was granted.
Application was then made by him to the latter court to

Dec.1869.]

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

enforce the judgment rendered on appeal in that case by the
Supreme Court of the State, making perpetual the injunction originally granted by the court from which the cause
was removed, but the court refused to grant the motion, because, as the court held, the writ of error sued out in the
case operated as a supersedeas.
Attempt is not made to call in question the correctness of
that decision, but the attorney-general on the same day obtained a rule in that court against all the respondents in
that case, except one, to show cause, if any, why they should
.not be punished for contempt, as having violated the injunc.
tion granted in the case before the same was appealed to the
Supreme Court of the State. Service was made under the
rule and the respondents appeared, and were fully heard,
but it appearing that the respondents had acted under the
advice of counsel, the court refused to inflict any punishments. Directions, however, were given to the sheriff in
the form of an order to enforce the preliminary injunction
granted by the Fifth District Court.
Proceedings of an original character were also instituted
by the present respondents in the same District Court, in
which they prayed that the board of metropolitan police
might be enjoined to prevent all persons, except the petitioners in that case, from conducting or carrying on the
live-stock landing and slaughter-house business within their
chartered limits. Accompanying that petition was an affidawit of merits, and upon that petition and affidavit an injunctiop was granted as prayed.
Three days later, to wit, on the sixth of June hlst, the
attorney-general intervened for the State in the suit at-d
adopted the petition and prayed that the injunction might
be made perpetual. Various motions were made by parties
opposed to the proceedings to dissolve or modify the injunction, but they were all overruled and denied by the court.
No appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State, nor
does it appear that any attempt was made by the respondents, in any form, to cause the proceedings to be re-examined
in the court of last resort, They regarded it as unnecessary

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to seek any such revision of the proceedings, as they insist
that the legal effect of the writ of error issued from this
court to the Supreme Court of the State was to vacate the
injunction granted by the latter court and to continue in
force the suspensive features of the appeals allowed by the
subordinate courts.
Beyond doubt, the appeal in the form granted by the subordinate court operated as a stay of execution, and suspended
the jurisdiction of the court to proceed further in the cause
until the same should be determined or remanded, but the
Supreme Court rendered a final judgment in the case and,
granted a perpetual injunction.
Whatever conditions were annexed to the appeal in the
subordinate court were abrogated by the final judgment of
the appellate tribunal, as the appeal was then fully executed.
Had no writ of error been granted by this court the plaintiffs, it is presumed, would admit the correctness of that rule,
but they insist that the effect of the writ of error, if made a
supersedeas, is that it suspends the judgment of the Supreme
Court and leaves the judgment of the subordinate court in
full operation during the pendency of the writ of error.
Independent of statutory regulations, the term supersedeas
has little or no application in equity suits, as the rule is well
settled in the English courts that an appeal in chancery does
not stop the proceedings under the decree from which the
appeal was taken without the special order of the subordinate court.*
Proceedings are stayed in the courts of New York by appeal in a chancery suit to the extent that if the party desires
to proceed, notwithstanding the appeal on the point from
which the appeal was taken, he must make application to
the chancellor for leave.t
*Different rules upon the subject prevail in different jurisdictions, but the act of Congress provides that appeals in
the Federal courts shall be subject to the same rules, regula* General Order, 15 Vesey, 184; Waldo v. Caly, 16 Id. 209; Willan v.
Willan, 16 Id. 216; 2 Daniels's Chancery Practice, 1547.
t Green v. Winter, 1 Johnson's Chancery, 80.

Dee..1869.]

SLAUGHTER-IHOUSE

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

tions, and restrictions as are prescribed in law in case of
writs of error.*
Appeals do not lie from a State court to this court in any
case, as the hct of Congress gives no such remedy. Rules
and regulations prescribed by law of course control and furnish the rule of decision, but it seems to be well settled
everywhere, in suits in equity, that an appeal from the decision of the court denying an application for an injunction
does not operate as an injunction or stay of the proceedings
pending the appeal. Neither does an appeal from an order
dissolving an injunction suspend the operation of the order
so as to entitle the appellant to stay the proceedings pending the appeal, as matter of right, either in a suit at law or
in equity.t
Separate examination of the several cases before the court
as respects the effect of the writs of error upon the judgments removed into this court, may well be omitted, as the
plaintiffs were the losing party in all the appeals from the
courts of original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court. They
prevailed in three of the suits in the District Courts, but
they were defeated in the Supreme Court in all the cases.
Viewed in any light it is clear that a writ of error to a
State court cannot have any greater effect than if the judgment or decree had been rendered or passed in a Circuit
Court, and it is quite certain that neither an injunction
nor a decree dissolving an injunction passed in a Circuit
Court is reversed or nullified by an appeal or writ of error
before the cause is heard in this codrt.
Judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court are brought
here for re-examination, and so are the judgments and decrees of a State court, and the only effect of the supersedeas
is to prevent all further proceedings in the subordinate court
2 Stat, at Large, 244.
t Hart v. Mayor, 3 Paige, 381; Graves v. Maguire, 6 Id. 380; Merced
Mining Co. v. Frenont, 7 California, 131 ; MeGarrahan v. Maxwell, 28 Id.
91; Louisiana Code of Practice, art. 307; Delacroix v. Villere, 11 Louisiana
Annual, 39; White v. Cazenave, 14 Id. 67; Knabe v. Fernot, 14 Id.:847.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., dissenting.

except such as are necessary to preserve the rights of the
parties.
Reference is also made to the fifth section of the act of the
second of March, 1793, as conferring power upon this court
to enjoin the proceedings in the Eighth District Court, but
the conclusive answer to that suggestion is that there is no
appellate relation between a subordinate State court and the
Supreme Court of the United States, and where no such relation is established by law the prohibition of that section"nor shall a writ of injunction be granted to stay proceedings in
any court of a State "-applies to the Supreme Court as we]l
as to the Circuit Court.*
Final judgments or decrees in any suit in the highest
court of law or equity of a State, in which a decision in the
suit could be had, may be removed here for re-examination
if they involve some one or more of the questions specified
in the section conferring the jurisdiction, and otherwise
come within the rules which regulate that jurisdiction.
Appeals lie, it is conceded, from the District Courts of that
State to the Supreme Court, as fully appears also from the
records in these suits, which shows to a demonstration that
this court possesses no power to grant any relief to the
plaintiffs under the act of Congress on which these motions
are founded.
MOTIONS DENIED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting.
I dissent, with some diffidence, from the opinion of the
court, on the following grounds:
1st. That notwithstanding the act of Congress declares
that a writ of error shall be a supersedeas if certain conditions are performed, the judgment of the court has the effect
of leaving many classes of decrees and judgments in equity,
though appealed from, entirely effective and operative between the parties, whereas the writ of error ought to sus1 Stat. at Large, 835.

Dec. 1869.]

WASHINGTON

RAULROAD

v.

BRADLEYS.

299

Statement of the ease.

pend the effect and operation thereof until the case is heard
in this court.
2d. That the judgment of this court will have the effect
to allow subordinate State courts to evade the supersedeas
of a writ of error in all cases where the court of last resort
remits the record to them for execution. The judgment of
this court disclaims all jurisdiction over the acts of the subordinate State courts, and thereby, in my judgment, surrenders a very important power necessary to the effective support of its appellate jurisdiction.
3d. That the judgment of the court remits the practice
on this subject substantially back to the practice of the English courts of equity, in which it is conceded that an appeal
does not suspend proceedings nor act as a supersedeas on
the proceedings in the court appealed from: and, in effect,
departs from the act of Congress, which declares that a writ
of error or an appeal in the Federal courts shall be a supersedeas.
4th. That the effect of the judgment of the court is to
disclaim its just control over the parties to the record.

WASHINGTON RAILROAD v. BRADLEYS.
1. It is a gross irregularity to hear a case without some terms imposed, on
an amended bill filed after replication, without leave of the court.
2. So it is an irregularity to go to hearing without replications to answers.
3. A petition by "way of cross-bill," which makes nobody defendant, which
prays for no process, and under which no process is issued, is a nullity.
4. A decree on such a bill, praying the reverse of what the original bill
prayed, is fatally erroneous. Nor will the fact that objection was not
made below, cure a combination of errors so large and so grave as above
indicated.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in a case of a bill by the Washington, Alexandria, and
Georgetown Railroad Company, against the City of Wash-

