COOPER V. REYNOLDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

There remains to be adjusted a question of interest due
to Bird and Hepburn for having contributed more capital
than Gunnell whilst the business was being carried on. The
auditor makes this interest $183.52, one-half of which should
be deducted-from the share of Gunnell, and added to that
of Bird and Hepburn. This would reduce the former to
$13,110.45, and raise the latter to $14,442.07.
Now the books show that Bird and Hepburn drew and
collected only $7552.68. This left a balance still due them
of $6889.39 to be accounted for by Gunnell.
In this account neither party is charged with the bad and
uncollected debts. They are simply deducted from the
profits, and the loss is thus equally divided. It is claimed
by the defendant that Bird and Hepburn should be charged
with the whole of this loss because they had the securities
and failed to collect them, when, by the use of due diligence,
they might have done it. This fact does. not appear in the
case except by the unsupported allegation of the defendant,
made in his answer to the bill of revivor This portion of
the answer was entirely impertinent to the bill, which was
strictly and purely a bill of revivor. No formal replication
was required to avoid its effect as evidence in the cause.
The result is that the complainants are entitled to a decree
against the defendant for the sum of $6889.39, with interest
from the 1st day of May, 1849, and costs. The decree of
the District Court must be REVERSED, and a decree rendered
FOR THE COMPLAINANTS ACCORDINGLY.

COOPER

v.

REYNOLDS.

1. It is an axiom of the law that when a judgment of a court is offered in
evidence collaterally in another suit, its validity cannot be questioned

for errors which do not affect the jurisdiction of the court that, rendered it.
2. Proceedings to enforce a debt or demand by attachment of the defendant's property partake of the character of suits, both in rem and in
personam.

De. 1870.)

COOPER v. REYNOLDS.
Statement of the case.

8. If there is personal service of process on the defendant or personal appearance by him the case is mainly a personal action; but if in the absence of either of these his property is attached and sold, it becomes
essentially a proceeding in rem and is governed by principles applicable
to that class of cases.
4. In this class of cases the court cannot proceed without a levy on the
property of the defendant, and the judgment binds nothing but the
property attached.
6. The seizure of the property of the defendant under the proper process of
the court is therefore the foundation of the court's jurisdiction, and defective or irregular affidavits and publications of notice, though they
might reverse a judgment in such case for error in departing from the
directions of the statute do not render such a judgment or the subsequent proceedings void.
6. Where there is a valid writ and levy, a judgment of the court, an order
of sale, and a sale and sheriff's deed, the proceeding cannot be held void
when introduced collaterally in another suit.

the Circuit Court foi the Eastern District of
Tennessee, the case being thus:
The code of Tennessee of 1857-8, under its chapter on
ATTACHMENTS, thus provides:
ERROR 'to

§ 3455. Any person having a debt or demand due ati the commencement of an action; or a plaintiff after action for any cause
has bcen brought, and either before or after judgment, may
sue out an attachment at law or in equity against the property of a debtor or defendant in the following cases:
2. Where he is about to remove or has removed himself from
the State.
5. Where he absconds or is absconding or concealing himself or property.
§ 3462. Attachments sued out in aid of a suit already brought
shall be made returnable to the court or justice before whom
the suit is pending.
§ 3469. In order to obtain an attachment the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, shall make oath in writing, stating the nature
and amount of the debt or demand, and that it is a just claim,
and also that one or more of the causes enumerated in section
3455 exists.
3470. It is no objection to the attachment that the bill, affidavit, or attachment states, in the alternative or otherwise,

COOPER v. REYNOLDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

more than one of the causes for which an attachment may be
sued out.
§ 3471. The officer to whom application is made shall, befbre
granting the attachment, require the plaintiff . . . to execute
a bond in double the amount claimed to be due, . . . payable
to the defendant and conditioned that the plaintiff will prosecute the attachment with effect, or in case of failure pay, &c.
§ 3472. The affidavit and bond shall be filed by the officer taking
them in the court to which the attachment is returnable,and shall
constitute a part of the record in the case.
Subsequent sections of the chapter provide for publication
for a fixed time in a newspaper publisled in the county
where the suit is brought of a memorandum or notice of the
attachment, and declare:
§ 3522. This memorandum or notice shall contain the names of
the parties, the style of the court to which the attachment is
made returnable, the cause. alleged for suing it out, and the
time and place at which the defendant is required to appear
and defend the attachment suit.
§ 3524. The attachment and publication are in lieu of personal
service upon the defendant, and the plaintiff may proceed
upon the return of the attachment duly levied, as if the suit
had been commenced by summons.
With these enactments of the code in force, W. G. Brownlow, on the 26th September, 1863, sued out a writ of summons in trespass, in the County Court of Knox County, Tennessee, against Reynolds and others, for false imprisonment,
for ejecting him from the State, &c.; damages $25,000. To
this writ the sheriff returned that "be had made search and
that none of the defendants were to be found in his county."
On the same day that he applied for the summons, and before the same lierson, one M. L. Hall, who, as clerk, bad
issued the summons in the trespass suit, Brownlow filed an
affidavit, for an attachment against the property of Reynolds
and the others. The affidavit, after.giving the names of the
parties to the summons, ran thus:

Dec. 1870.]

COOPER v. REYNOLDS.

Statement of the ease.

"The plaintiff makes oath that he has a good cause of action
against the defendants herein named in which he will be entitled to recover a very large sum. He further swears that all
of defendants have fled from this State oR that they so abscond
or conceal themselves that the ordinary process of law cannot
reach them ; that he has this day instituted an action of trespass against them claiming $25,000. Plaintiff therefore prays
for an ancillary attachment against their property in aid of
this his suit."
An attachment bond being given in double the amount
($50,000) the attachment issued; the bond and attachment
being, like the affidavit and summons had been, both dated
September 26th. The attachment recited the above-given
affidavit substantially as made, and directed the sheriff to
attach so much of the property of Reynolds and the others
as should be sufficient to satisfy the said amount of $25,000,
and such estate so to secure that the same might be subject
to further proceedings thereon at a court to be held on a
day subsequent and specified. The sheriff returned to this
last writ that he had attached all the right and title of Reynolds in and to one hundred and sixty acres of land in Knox
County. Publication was ordered by the court to be made
in the Knoxville 'Whig (a paper of the county), notifying to
the defendants to appear and plead, answer or demur, or
that the suit would be taken as confessed and proceeded in
ex pare as to them. The record did not, however, set forth
the notice which was published, if any was; though it did
set forth the order for publication, which was entitled,
"Order of publication, and the publication as made in the
Knoxville Whig ;" making it appear, perhaps, that the omission to set forth the notice was a clerical error.
The record of Browulow's suit went on to say that the
defendant, Reynolds, and the others being solemnly called to
come into court, came not, but made default, and it appearig-the record proceeded-that the attachment had been
duly levied on the defendant's property, and that publication
had been made according to law, it was ordered that the plaintiff should recover his damages. These were assessed at

COOPER V. REYNOLDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

$25,000, and for this sum execution was ordered to issue,
and that the sheriff should sell the one hundred'and sixty acres
of land attached. The land was accordingly sold under a venditioni exponas, and a deed made by the sheriff to one Cooper,
by order of the purchaser. Cooper Was put into possession
by a writ of haberi facias, issued from the same court in the
same proceeding. Being thus in possession, Reynolds, the
original owner, brought ejectmentin the court belo'v against
him. Cooper asserted title under the judicial proceedings
above described. It was admitted that Reynolds had title
to the land unless it had been divested by those proceedings.
The record of the proceedings having been obtained from
the Knox County Court, and put in evidence below, the defendant asked the court to instruct the jury:
"That the Court of Knox County had jurisdiction of attachment cases and actions of trespass, and that as it is declared in
the judgment in the suit of Brownlow v. Reynolds et al. that the
attachment was duly levied on the property of the defendants,
and that publication had been made according to law, this adjudication was conclusive upon parties and privies, until the same
should be reversed by a court of error; that the sheriff's deed
to the defendant made, by virtue of the sale under and by virtue
of the judgment of the Court of Knox County, communicated a
good title to the premises in controversy to the defendant as
against the plaintiff, and that the regularity of the proceedings
in the said suit of Brownlow v. Reynolds et al. could not be col-

laterally inquired into in this cause."
This instruction the court refused to give, but charged
the jury:
"That the summons issued in the case of Brownlow v. Reynolds et al. was not served upon the plaintiff in this suit, and
that the question was whether the attachment would bring him
into court; that the affidavit upon which the attachment was
issued, was not made in conformity to the attachment laws of
Tennessee; that it did not show the court in which suit was
brought, or state specifically the cause of action or nature
thcreof, as required under the decisions of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, so as to connect itself with the summons in the

Dqc. 1870.]

COOPER V. REYNOLDS.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

action of trespass; that it did not: appear that any publication
was in fact made, and that the Court of Knox County acquired
no jurisdiction of the cause; that the attachment and proceedings thereon were not sufficient to bring Reynolds befire the
court; that there was no authority for rendering the judgment,
and that the levy of the attachment, the judgment of the court,
the sale by the sheriff, and the sheriff's deed, were null and void,
and conveyed no title."
Verdict and judgment having gone accordingly for the
plaintiff; the question now here, on error by the other side,
was whether this instruction was correct.
Mr. Horace Maynard,with whom was Mr. T. A. B. Nelson,
for the plaintiff in error:
1. The affidavit is in substantial conformity to the requirements of the code (section 3469 and section 3455, subsections 2, 5). Its words "have fled from the State," are
equivalent to the words "removed from the State,?' in subsection 2. If not, its words "they so abscond or conceal
themselves that the ordinary process of:law cannot reach
them," are equivalent to the words in shb-section 5, "where
he absconds, or is absconding or concealing himself or property." This construction is sustained by section 3470, which
provides that " it is no objection tc the attachment that the
bill, affidavit, or attachment states in the alternative, or
otherwise, more than one of the causes for which an attachment may be sued out."
The instruction, "that the affidavit does not show the
court in which suit was brought, or state specifically the
cause of action or nature thereof, as required under the decisions of the SupremelCourt of the State, so as to connect
itself with the summons in the action of trespass mentioned,"
was erroneous, because it is provided in section 3472, in regard to the affidavits and bond mentioned in section 3469,
that "the affidavit and bond shall be filed by the officer taking
them in the court to which the attachment is returnable, and
shall constitute part of the record in the cause." Now in this
case the affidavit was made before M. L. Hall, clerk of the

COOPER V. REYNOLDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

court, who issued the summons and the ancillary attachment; and the affidavit, bond,.and atta6hment, being thus
parts of the record, should be construed together and in
connection with the summons, which is part of the same
record. The summons, affidavit, bond, and attachment all
bear the same date, viz., 26th September, 1863. The court
is the same; the parties are the same; the amount of damages specified in the-summons, affidavit, and ancillary attachment is the same. It is true that the affidavit does not specifically name the court in which the suit was brought, butl
in view of the facts just r.eferred to, and in view of the fact
that the affidavit was depqsited in and formed part of, and
was brought from the records of the Court of Knox County,
is it possible to doubt that it was part of the proceeding by
summons and attachment?
2. The " order of publication and the publication as made
in the Knoxville Whig," meant to be set out in the record,
were a full compliance with the'law. In addition to this it
is expressly stated in the judgment that it appeared to the
court that the altachment had been duly levied, and that publication had been made according to law. This is sufficient.*
3. But, however the preceding points may be, still as the
general laws of the State confer jurisdiction in cases like
this suit of Brownlow's was; all that the court below could
properly do was to ascertain from the general laws whether
the case tried in the Court of Knox County was within those
laws; and having ascertained that it was, it should have
presumed, in a collateral inqidry, and especially in reference
to the action of a State tribunal, that the jurisdiction was
rightfully exercised, aiid that the plaintiff in error acquired
a valid title under the proceedings in the Circuit Court and
by virtue of the shqriff's sale and deed.
Mr. J. W. Moore, contra:.
The instructions asked for were rightly refused, and those
* Kilerease v. Blythe, 6 Humphreys, 378; Hopper v. Fisher, 2 Head,
263; and Cornelius v. Davi8, Id. 97; Davis v. Jones, 8 Id. 603; Birdsong v.
Birdsona, 2 Id. 289; Gunn v. Maso,,.2,Sneed, 637.

Dec. 1870.]

COOPER V. REYNOLDS.
Opinion of the court.

which were given were the proper ones to give. No service
was made of the summons. It is not pretended that appearance was ever made. Then the affidavit was defective every
way. It don't follew, in its terms, the code. Again, in
Woodfolk v. Whitnmore,* the Supreme Court of Tennessee say:
"An auxiliary writ of attachment is void, unless it is stated
in the affidavit and alleged in the attachment that a suit has
been brought by the plaintiff against the defendant, the nature
thereof, the tribunal in which it is depending, the amount of'
damages laid in the action, and that the cause of action is just."
Yet further: there was no publication notifying to the
defendants to appear. This the code requires. In short,
everything is wrong in every part of the proceeding: and
deriving vitality onfy from statute, the judgment and sale
founded on it is void. A void sale can be the foundation of
no title, whatever one merely irregular may le.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The objections taken to the proceeding in attachment
under which Cooper, the defendant below, claimed title, are,
1st, that by the law of Tennessee the attachment could not
be issued at the beginning of the suit where the action was
ex delicdo, but could only be issued after suit commenced;
2d, that the affidavit was defective; 3d, that there was no
publi.cation of notice, as required "by the statutes.
The question of the conformity of these proceedings to the
requirements of the statutes under which they were had, has
been very fully discussed by counsel, and if we were sitting
here as on a writ of error to the judgment of the State court
under which the land was sold, we might not find it easy to
affirm or reverse the judgment on satisfactory grounds, notwithstanding the abundant citation of authorities from the
'Tennessee courts. 'But we occupy no such position. The
record of this case is introduced collaterally as evidence of
5 Coldwell, 561. And see Thompson v. Carper, 11 Humphreys, 542;
Morris v. Davis, 4 Sneed, 468; Smith i. Foster, 3 Coldwell, 140; Haynes V.
Gates, 2 Head. 698.

COOPER

v.

REYNOLDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court,

title in another suit, between other parties, and beforQ a
court which has :no jiurisdiction to reverse or set aside that
judgment, however erroneous it may be. Nor can it disregard that judgment, or refuse to give it effect, on any other
ground than a want of jurisdiction in the court which rendered it.
It is of no avail, therefore, to show that there are errors
in that record, unless they be such as prove that the court
had no jurisdiction of the case, or that the judgment rendered was beyond its power. This principle has been often
held by this court, and by all courts, and it takes rank as an
axiom of the law. But that its applicability to the present
case may be thoroughly understood, reference is made to
the most important of the decided cases in this court and in
the Supreme Court of Tennessee.*
It, is necessary, therefore, in the present case to inquire
whether the errors alleged affect the jurisdiction of the
court.
It is as easy to give a general and comprehensive definition of the word jurisdiction as it is difficult to determine,
in special cases, the precise conditions on which the right
to exercise it depends. This right has reference to the
power of the court over the parties, over the subject-matter,
over the res or property incontest, and to the authority of
the court to render the judgment or decree which it assumes
to make.
By j urisdiction over the subject-matter is meant the nature
of the cause of action and of the relief sought; and this is
conferred by the sovereign authority Which organizes the
court, and is to be sought, for in the general nature of its
powers, or in tuthority specially conferred.
Jurisdiction of the person is obtained by the service of
Kempe's Lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 1731 Thompson v. Tolmie, 2
Peters, 167; Voorhees v. Bank- of United States, 10 Id. 449; Grignon. V.
Astor, 2 Howard, 319; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wallace, 328; Florentine v.
Barton, Id 210; McGoon v. Scales, 9 Id. 23; Stevenson v. McLean, 5 Humphrey, 832; Britain v. Cowen, Id. 315; Lee v. Crossna, 6 Id. 281 ; Kilerease
v. Blythe, lb. 378; Reams v. McNail, 9 Id. 542; McGavock v. Bell, 3 Coldwell, 512.

Dec. 1870.]

COOPER V. REYNOLDS.
Opinion of the court.

process, or by the voluntary appearance of the party in the
progress of the cause.
Jurisdiction of the res is obtained by a seizure under process of the court, whereby it is held to abide such order as
the court may make concerning it. The power to render
the decree or judgment which the court may undertake to
make in the particular cause, depends upon the nature and
extent of the authority vested in it by law in regard to the
subject-matter of the cause.
It is to be observed that in reference to jurisdiction of
the person, the statutes of the States have provided for
several kinds of service of original process short of actual
service on the party to be brought before the court, and the
nature and effect of this service, and the purpose which it
answers, depend altogether upon the effect given to it by
the statute. So also while the general rule in regard to
jurisdiction in rem requires the actual seizure and possession of the res by the officer of the court, such jurisdiction
may be acquired by acts which are of equivalent import,
and which stand for and ropresent the dominion of the
court over the thing, and in effect subject it to the control
of the court. Among this latter class is the levy of a writ
of attachment or seizure of real estate, which being incapable of removal, and lying within the territorial jurisdiction
of the court, is for all practicaf purposes brought under the
jurisdiction of the court by the officer's levy of the writ and
return of that fact to the court. So the writ of garnishment
or attachment, or other form of service, on a party holding
a fund which becomes the subject of litigation, brings that
fund under the jurisdiction of the court, though the money
may remain in the, actual custody of one not an officer of
the court.
When we come to the application of these principles to
the case before us, that which leads to some embarrassment
is the complex character of the proceeding which we are to
consider.
Its essential purpose or nature is to establish, by the judgment of the court, a demand or claim against the defendant,

OOPER v. REYNOLDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and to subject his property, lying within the territorial jurisdiction of the court, to the payment of that demand.
But the plaintiff is met at the commencement of his proceedings by the fact that the defendant is not within that
territorial jurisdiction, and cannot be served with any process by which he can be brought personally within the power
of the court. For this difficulty the statute has provided a
remedy. It says that, upon affidavit being made of that
fact, a writ of attachment may be issued, and levied on
any of the defendant's property, and a publication may be
made warning him to appear, and that thereafter the court
may proceed in the case, whether he appears or not.
If the defendant appears the cause becomes mainly a suit
in personam, with the added incident, that the property
attached remains liable, under the control of the court, to
answer to any demand which may be established against
the defendant by the final judgment of the court. But, if
there is no appearance of the defendant, and no service of
process on. him, the case becomes, in its essential nature, a
proceeding in rem, the only effect of which is to subject the
property attached to the payment of the demand which the
court may find to be due to the plaintiff.
That such is the nature of this proceeding in this latter
class of cases, is clearly evinced by two well-established
propositions: first, the judgment of the court, though in
form a personal judgment against the defendant, has no
effect beyond the propertyattached in that suit. No general execution can be issued for any balance unpaid after
the attached properly is exhausted. No suit can be maintained on such a judgment in the same court or in any other,
nor can it be used as evidence in any other proceeding not
affecting the attached property, nor could the costs in that
proceeding be collected of defendant out of any other property than that attached in the suit. Second, the court' in
such a suit, cannot proceed unless the officer finds some
property of defendant on which to levy the writ of attachment. A return, that none can be fbuncl, is the end
of the case, and deprives the court of further jurisdiction,

Dec. 1870.]

COOPER

v.

REYNOLDS.

Opinion of the court.

though the publication may have been duly made and
proven in court.
Now, in this class of cases, on what does the jurisdiction
of the court depend? It seems to us that the seizure of the
property, or that which,ein this case, is the same in effect,
the levy of the writ of attachment on it, is the one essential
requisite to jurisdiction, as it unquestionably is in proceedings purely in rem. Without this the court can proceed no
further; with it the court can proceed to subject that property to the demand of plaintiff. If the writ of attachment
is the lawful writ of the court, issued in proper form under
the seal of the court, and if it is by the proper officer levied
upon property liable to the attachment, when such a writ is
returned into court, he power of the court over the res is
established. the affidavit is the preliminary to issuing the
writ. It may be a defective affidavit, or possibly the officer
whose duty it is to issue the writ may have failed in some
manner to observe all the requisite formalities; but the writ
being issued and levi'ed, the affidavit has served its purpose,
and, though a revisory courf might see in some such departure from the strict direction of the statute sufficient error
to reverse the judgment, we are unable to see how that can
deprive the court of the jurisdiction acquired by the writ
levied upon defendant's property.
So also of the publication of notice. It is the duty of the
court to order such publication, and to see tlat it has been
prbperly made, and, undoubtedly, if there has been no such
publication, a court of errors might reverse the judgment.
But when the writ has been issued, the property seized,
and that property been condemned and sold, we cannot hold
that the court had no jurisdiction for want of a sufficient
publication of notice.
We do not deny that there are cases which, not partaking
of the nature of proceedings in rem, when the judgment is
to have an effect on personal rights, as in divorce suits, or
•in proceedings to compel conveyance, or other persoilal acts,
in which the legislature has properly made the jurisdiction
to depend on this publication of notice, or on bringing the

COOPER v. REYNOLDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

suit to the notice of the party in some other mode, when he
is not within the territorial jurisdiction.
It is not denied that the court had authority to issue writs
of attachment against the property of persons absconding
the State, and that such writs could issue in actions for torts.
The court has a general jurisdiction as to torts, and attachment is one of its remedial agencies in such cases. Whether
the writ shpuld have been issued simultaneously with the
institution of the suit, or at some other stage of its progress,
cannot be a question of jurisdiction. If it is, any other
error which affected a party's rights, could as well be held
to affect the jurisdiction.
Such departures from the rules which should guide the
court in the conduct of a cause are not errors which render
its action void.
The caso of Voorhees v. The Bank of the Uniled States,* was
much like this, and required stronger presumptions in favor
of the jurisdiction of the court to sustain it5 acts than the
one before us.
The defendant there, as here, held land under attachment
proceedings against a non-resident who had never been
served with process or appeared in the case. No affidavit
was produced, nor publication of notice, nor appraisement
of the property, but it was cond9mned and sold without
waiting twelve months from the return of the writ, and
without calling him at three differeit terms of the court, all
of which are specially required by the act regulating the
proceedings in Ohio, where they were had. This court held
that there was sufficient evidence of jurisdiction in the court
which rendered the judgment, notwithstanding the defects
we have mentioned, and that they were not fatal in a collateral proceeding.
In the present case there is a sufficient writ of attachment,
its levy and return, the judgment of the court, on trial by
jury, the order to sell the property, the sale under the venditioni exponas, the writ of possession, sheriff's deed and
*-Cited supra, p. 316, note.

Dec. 1870.]

SMITH V. STEVENS.
Statement of the case.

actual delivery of possession under order of the court. To
bold them void is to overturn .the uniform course of decision
in this court, to unsettle titles to vast amounts of property,
long held in reliance on those decisions, and, in our judgment, would be to sacrifice sound principle to barren technicalities; and, after a careful examination of the reported
cases ott this subject, we believe this to be the law, as held
by the courts of Tennessee.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I-dissent from the judgment in this case. I am of opinion
that the State court of Tennessee never acquired jurisdia
tion in the case of Brownlow v. Reynolds.

SMITH V. STEVENS.

1. Under the act of Congress of May 26th, 1860, referring to the treaty
of June 8d, 1825, between the Ufiited'States and the nation of Kansas
Indians (which reserved certain tracts of land for the benefit of particular half-breed Kansas Indians named), and granting "the title,
interest, and estate of the United States," to the reservees mentioned
in that treaty, and providing that the Secretary of the Interior, when

requected by. any one of the Indians named, "is hereby authorized"
to sell the piece reserved for such Indians; the reservees had no authority to sell the lands independently of assent by the Secretary of the

Interior; and any such sale was void.
2. A statute granting pieces of lands to Indians, and prescribing a specific

mode in which they may sell, forbids by implication a sale independently of the mode.
ERROR-tO the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas, the
case being thus:
By treaty of June 3d, 1825,* the United States concluded
a treaty with the Kansas Indians, containing mutual cessions
of territory. The sixth article of the treaty contained a pro-

VOL. X.

7 Staf. at Large, 244, 245.
21

