OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

FRITZLEN v. BOATMEN'S BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 99.

Argued January 28, 29, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

If, after an order to remand has been made, it results, from the subsequent pleadings or conduct of the parties, that the cause is removable, a second application to remove can be made, and the right to
make it is not controlled by the previous remanding order; nor is the
granting of the order to remove under such circumstances a refusal
to give effect to such previous order to remand.
In this case, held that in an action to foreclose, where the junior encumbrancer as plaintiff joined the senior encumbrancer as a defendant and attacked the validity of his lien, as did the owner of the
property, also a defendant, a separable controversy existed between

the senior encumbrancer on the one side and the owner and the junior
encumbrancer on the other side, which was removable, as diverse
citizenship existed when the parties were so arranged; and such removal could not be prevented either by the unnecessary joinder of
tf!e senior encumbrancer, or because prior to the filing of the reply
showing the separable' nature of the controversy, a remanding order
had been made.
Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 169 U. S. 92, followed as to when
an application for removal is made in time.
75 Kansas, 479, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. D. R. Hite, with whom Mr. H. J. Bone and Mr. F. C.
Price were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James S. Botsford, with whom Mr. Buckner F. Deatherage and Mr. Odus G. Young were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the twenty-third of July, 1903, in a court of the State
of Kansas, William H. Weldon, a citizen of that State, sued

FRITZLEN v. BOATMEN'S BANK.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

D. G. Fritzlen and his wife Edna, also such citizens, and the
Boatmen's Bank, a corporation organized under the laws and
a citizen of Missouri. The cause of action against the Fritzlens
was a note for $3,750, dated July 2, 1903, maturing in ten days,
alleged to be secured by mortgages covering described real
estate and certain live stock. The bank was- made a defendant upon the averment that it claimed to have a mortgage on
the real estate and personal property which secured the note
sued on, and this alleged mortgage was asserted to be illegal
and void, and, in any event, to be "junior and subordinate
to the right, title, interest and lien of this plaintiff." Judgment for the amount of the note with interest was prayed, as
also that the mortgage securing the same be decreed to be a
first and prior lien over all others oft the property; that so much
of the property as was necessary-be sold to satisfy the judgment;
and that "the pretended claim, lien and interest of the said
defendant, the Boatmen's Bank, be declared to be illegal and
void." Summons by publication was made, calling upon the
bank to answer before September 4, 1903. On July 30 Weldon
applied for a temporary injunction, preventing the defendants,
pending the suit, from removing any of the property beyond
the jurisdiction of the court, and a restraining order was allowed. On August 13, 1903, the bank demurred to the petition, because facts adequate to establish that the mortgage
by it held was invalid were not averred, and because two
distinct causes of action were unlawfully joined, the one to
enforce the alleged mortgage against the Fritzlens and the
other assailing the rights of the bank. On the day the demurrer
was filed the bank, giving the necessary bond, asked removal
of the cause to th~e Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas, on the ground that the controversy as to
thevalidity of its mortgage was separable from the controversy
concerning the enforcement of the alleged mortgage against
the Fritzlens, 'and additionally because of local prejudice.
On September 14 the Circuit Court of the United States, presided over by Lochren, J., overruled motions to remand made

366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Ojinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

by Fritzlen and Weldon, the court basing its action upon the
separable nature of the controversies and not considering the
ground of local prejudice, and on that day the court dissolved
the restraining order previously allowed by the. state court.
.A copy of the order refusing to remand was filed in the state
court. On the ninth'of October, 1903, in the United States
District Court for the District of Kansas, the bank brought
an action of replevin for the possession of the personal property embraced in its mortgage, and the marshal, under a writ
of replevin, took and delivered the property to the bank. More
than six months after the order refusing to remand the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, presided
over by Pollock, J., granted a motion of Weldon to -remand the
cause to the state court. In making this order the court considered that the prior refusal to remand was not binding upon
it, because it deemed the question of jurisdiction to be always
open, and it was its plain duty to decline to take jurisdiction
over a cause if the power to entertain it did not obtain. 128
Fed. Rep. 608.
Thereupon the bank in the state court, on May 14, 1904,
withdrew its demurrer and answered. Besides denying the
averments of Weldon's petition, it was al!eged that the bank
was the holder for value of a note of Fritzlen for $32,920.15,
dated November 30, 1901, and secured by mortgage on the
personal and real property referred to in the petition of Weldon,
the mortgage having been recorded on December 6, 1901. It
was averred that .the lien of the bank was paramount to any
lien resulting from the Weldon mortgage. The prayer was only
this: "Wherefore, having fully answered, said Boatmen's Bank.
prays judgment and that it may go hence without day," and
with costs in its favor. About ten days after, the Fritzlens
applied to the state court for an order directing the bank to
restore to them the personal property taken under the writ of
replevin. The motion stated the prior issue of a restraining
order; recited the facts as to the refusal to remand by Lochren, J., the bringing. of the replevin suit, and the subsequent

FRITZLEN v. BOATMEN'S BANK.
212 U.S.

367

Opinion of the Court.

remanding of the cause under the order of Pollock, J. It was
recited that the replevin suit had been dismissed for want of
jurisdiction by the Circuit Court of the United States. Upon
this motion, on the same day, the court directed the return of
the property, or if sold, the deposit of the proceeds in a designated bank. As the effect of this order and the subsequent
procedure concerning it is not relevant to the question which
we are called upon to decide, it is not necessary to further
refer in detail to the subject. Suffice it to say that the bank
thereafter moved to set aside the order on the ground, among
others, that the restraining order had been set aside by the
Circuit Court of the United States while the case was there
pending, and that although the replevin suit had been dismissed for want o&jurisdiction the question of the rightfulness
of the dismissal was pending before the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit.
On the twenty-sixth day of May, 1904, Fritzlen answered
the petition of Weldon, by admitting the debt and mortgage,
but charging that all the interest claimed was not due. The
answer then proceeded to set out matters which were alleged
to be Fritzlen's "cause of action against his co-defendant,
the Boatmen's Bank." The matters alleged on this subject
were substantially as follows:
First. It was charged that the note which was held by the
Boatmen's Bank embraced the sum of previous note or notes
given by Fritzlen to the firm of Elmore & Cooper, and an association known as the Elmore & Cooper Live Stock Commission Company, a Missouri corporation. These previous notes, it
was charged, were secured by a chattel mortgage, but were not
negotiable, and had been assigned to the Boatmen's Bank, and
were subject to any equity existing in favor of Fritzlen. The
notes, it was alleged, were made up in considerable part of
charges or commissions which had been exacted by.Elmore &
Cooper or the Commission company for commissions relating to
the sale. and handling of live stock for Fritzlen at the Kansas
City stock yards. These commissions, it was alleged, had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S

exacted because of an illegal combination in restraint of trade,
in violation of the laws of the State of Kansas controlling the
method of doing business at the Kansas City stock yards, to
which Elmore & Cooper and the commission company were
parties, and hence Fritzlen was entitled to recover the sum
thereof. The amount of the commissions thus referred to exceeded three thousand dollars.
Second. That prior to the time when the bank had acquired
the note or notes from Elmore & Cooper or the commission
company, and subsequent 'thereto up to the time when the
bank obtained the note described in its answer, it was a Missouri corporation, and had not complied with the lAws of
Kansas authorizing foreign corporations to do business in that
State. It was charged that the dealings concerning the assign'ment of the notes from Elmore & Cooper and the commission
company, as well as the dealings which led up to the giving
of the note upon which the bank relied, as well as other transactions, constituted a doing of business in Kansas by the bank
in violation of law, and therefore the note was void.
Third. That prior to the giving of the note which the bank
held, negotiations had supervened between the bank and
Fritzlen, having reference to the liability of the latter for the
note or notes which the bank had acquired from Elmore &
Cooper and the commission company. That as a result of these
negotiations it had been contracted between the bank and
Fritzlen that the bank would make to Fritzlen additional advances of money to enable him to carry on the business of his
stock farm in Kansas, and would furnish to Fritzlen the food
required to feed his stock on his ranch during the winter of
1902-1903, and that as a result of these understandings it was
agreed between them that Fritzlen give a new note to the bank
for the amount of its previous claims and advances, which
should be secured by a chattel mortgage as well as one upon
real estate, and that the note held by the bank was given as
the result of this agreement. It was then charged that although the bank had repeatedly been called upon ,to comply

FRITZLEN v. BOATMEN'S BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

-

369

with its contract to furnish the food for the cattle, it had failed
to do so, and as a result of a sudden and rigorous blizzard in
the winter of 1903 over five hundred head of the cattle perished
by starvation and the remainder were reduced in value, resulting in a loss of at least twenty thousand dollars. The sum
of this loss was asserted to be due by the bank to Fritzlen.
Fourth. Further, it was charged that although after the
bringing of the suit by Weldon a restraining order had been
by him obtained forbidding the removal of the cattle which
were covered by the chattel mortgage, the bank had illegally
taken possession of and removed cattle to the value of twentyfive thousand dollars, and was liable to Fritzlen to return the
same or to pay their value. -The answer concluded by a prayer
that an account be taken by the court of the debt due by
Fritzlen to the plaintiff Weldon, so as to fix the sum of the interest due thereon; that the note held by the bank and the
chattel mortgage securing the same be decreed to be null and
void-; that an account be stated between the bank and Fritzlen
without reference to the amount of the note held by the bank,
so as to exclude illegal charges previously made by Elmore &
Cooper and the commission company, and that the bank, in
the accounting, be' charged with the loss occasioned by the
death or injury of cattle caused by its failure to supply food
under its contract. It was additionally prayed that it be decreed that the real estate mortgage held by the bank had been
completely paid, and consequently that all liens arising therefrom be decreed to be extinguished, and unless the bank returned the cattle illcgally taken there also be a recovery for
the full value thereof.
On the same day-May the 26th-Weldon, the plaintiff,
filed his reply to the answer of the Boatmen's Bank. By such
answer Weldon, in effect, set up as against the bank the same
causes of action advanced by Fritzlen in his answer concerning the illegality of the note held by the bank, because it had
engaged in business as a foreign, corporation in the State of
Kansas without complying with the state law, and because
VOL. CCXII-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

there had entered into the sum of the note held by the bank
illegal charges previously made by Elmore & Cooper and the
Elmore & Cooper Commission Company.
On June 10, 1904, the bank made its second application to
remove the case, based upon the ground that.the effect of the
replies of Fritzlen and of Weldon was to make manifest that
there was a separable controversy as to the validity of the
mortgage of the bank, between Weldon and Fritzlen on the
one side and the bank on the other, which Was cognizable in
the United States court, and moreover that it plainly resulted
from the pleadings, since the entry of the order to remand made
by Pollock, J., that Weldon had unnecessarily made the bank
a par.ty to his suit to foreclose against Fritzlen as the result of
a conspiracy between Fritzlen and himself, for the purpose of
preventing the issue as to the validity of the mortgage of the
bank being tried in the courts of the United States. It was
recited that the answers of Fritzlen and Weldon had been filed
without notice, and the motion to remand was made at once
on learning of such filing.
The court, although it found that the bond for removal was
sufficient, declined to order the removal, to which the bank
excepted. It is unnecessary to detail the further proceedings
in the trial court. It is adequate to say that the issues between
the parties were tried in part by a jury and in part by the court,
and resulted in a judgment allowing in part the claim of Fritzlen against the bank, and the remainder of the claim of the bank
against Fritzlen, and while giving a judgment in favor of Weldon against Fritzlen rejected the claim of Weldon as to the
entire illegality of the mortgage to the bank.
The case was removed to the Supreme Court of Kansas by
proceedings, in error prosecuted by the various parties. Pending.its determination-taking judicial'notice of our own records
-it is to be observed that the cause was decided which was
pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,
resulting from the writ of error prosecuted from that court to
the judgment of the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas,

FRITZLEN v. BOATMEN'S BANK.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dismissing for want of jurisdiction the replevin action referred
to in the previous statement. The court, while treating the
order for remanding the cause made by Pollock, J., as not
subject to be reviewed, nevertheless held that the effect of that
order was not necessarily controlling as to the jurisdiction of
the court below in the replevin action brought whilst the Weldon suit was pending in the Circuit Court of the United States
in consequence of the refusal of Lochren, J., to remand. Coming to consider, as an independent question, whether the subject matter of the replevin suit was beyond the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas, it was held that
the suit was clearly within the jurisdiction of the court, because
the Weldon suit presented a separable controversy between
Weldon and Fritzlen on the one side and the bank on the other,
as to the validity of the mortgage of the bank, and that although the remanding order.of Pollock, J., could not be reversed, nevertheless its effect, while operative and not open to
attack, did not necessarily oust the Circuit Court of jurisdiction over the replevin action brought when the Weldon suit
was pending in the Circuit Court. The judgment dismissing
the replevin suit for want of jurisdiction was reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings. 135 Fed. Rep. 650.
A petition praying a writ of certiorari to review this judgment
was by this court denied. 198 U. S. 586.
The case pending on error in the Supreme Court of Kansas
was thereafter decided. That court, without questioning the
order remanding the cause made by Pollock, J., as controlling
in the condition of the pleadings at the time that order was
made, held that by the effect of the pleadings filed after the
return of the cause in consequence of the order remanding the
record presented a separable controversy, with Weldon and
Fritzlen on the one side and the bank on the other, which justified the second application to remove, and therefore that application had been wrongfully refused. It. in addition held
that the evolution of the pleadings in the state court after the
order to remand was adequate to establish , prima facie that

OCTOBER TERM; 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S,

Weldon, in suing to enforce his mortgage, had joined the bank,
although it was not a necessary party to that proceeding, because of a collusive conspiracy between himself and Fritzlen to
enable the latter to contest with the bank the vaiidity of its
mortgage and prevent that controversy from being cognizable
in the Federal courts, which would have been otherwise the
case. 75 Kansas, 479. This writ of error was then prosecuted.
A motion to dismiss was postponed to the hearing on the
'merits. The assertion that we have power to review is based
upon the proposition that the necessary effect of the judgment
of the court below was to refuse to give effect to. the order of
the Federal court remanding the cause, which it is insisted was
final and the law of the case in all subsequent proceedings, and
not susceptible of being reviewed in any forum, citing Fitzgerald v. Missouri Pacific R. R., 160 U. S. 556. But it is not
open to controversy that if after an order to remand has been
made it results,. from the subsequent pleadings or conduct of
the parties to the cause, that the cause is removable, on the
-development of such situation a second application to remove
may be made, and the right to do so because of th6 changed
aspect is not controlled by the previous order remanding, the
cause. Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry', 169 U. S. 92. See also
Wecker v. National Enameling Co., 204 U. S. 176. It follows,
*therefore, that the contention that the necessary effect of the
judgment below was to refuse to give effect to the previous remanding order is without foundation. It is said, however, that
as the power to entertain a subsequent motion to remove depended upon a change'in the condition of the record, that the
result of the judgment below was to deny all effect to the prior
order remanding the cause, as there had been no such change
in the record as to justify the granting of the second order to remove. To sustain this proposition it is insisted that substantially the only change that resulted from the pleadings filed after
the remanding of the cause was that brought about by the filing
of the answer of Fritzlen and the defenses set up in that answer
against the mortgage held by the bank, which, it is argued in.

FRITZLEN v. BOATMEN'S BANK.
212-U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the nature of things could not operate to affect the removability of the suit between Weldon and Fritzlen. But the
premise upon which the proposition rests is without foundation in fact. As we have seen, the petition of Weldon impleading Fritzlen and the bank, while it assailed the bank's m6rtgage
in express terms, alleged that that mortgage, if it existed, was
junior in rank to the mortgage of Weldon. And the serious
consequences which that averment had upon, the order to remand the case is indicated in the opinion of Pollock, J., sustaining 'the motion to remand. The, necessary effect of the
answer ofthe bank, filed after the renianding, and'of the answer
by Fritzleni as well as of the answer filed by Weldon, expressly
joining Fritzlen in his attack upon the mortgage of the bank,
was to make clear the untruth of the averment of the junior
character of'the mortgage held by the bank and to establish,
therefore, the fact that the bank was not an indispensable or
necessary pa rty to the suit of Weldon-for the foreclosure of the
mortgage against Fritzlen.
It'follows therefore that the contention that the state of the
record at the time the second application for removal was
made was not materially different from the condition existing
when the prior order to remand was allowed, is unwarranted.
So far as the separable nature of the controversy is concerned,
arising on the record as it existed at the time the second application to remove was made, we might rest content with saying that we think the removal was rightly allowed, for the
reasons stated in the opinion of the court below and in that of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in Boatmen's Bank v. Fritzlen, supra, and the authorities there cited.
We observe, however, that under the case made, as the bank
was not an indispensable' party to the suit of Weldon to foreclose, the mere fact that the bank was by him joined as a defendant along With Fritzlen cannot be held to operate to prevent the application of the rule of separable controversy, and
that from its application we think it quite clear that the valdity of the bank's mortgage, assailed as it was under the cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

cumstlnces of the case, was a separable controversy with Weldon and Fritzlen on one side and the bank on the other, and
it was therefore rightly the subject of removal. Without stopping to give the .reason for our conclusion, we also think it is
quite clear, within the ruling in Powers v. Chesapeake & 0. Ry.
Co., supra, that the second application to remove was made
in time.
While the views just expressed might justify granting the
motion to dismiss, yet in consequence of the character of the
question (Swafford v. Te'mpleton, 185 U. S. 487), instead of dismissing, our decree will be,
Affirmed.

MATTER OF DUNN.
APPLICATION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS AGAINST THE HONOR-'
ABLE EDWARD R. MEEK, DISTRICT JUDGE &C.

No. 10, Original.

Argued January 11, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

As a corporation created by act of Congress derives all its rights from
the law creating it, suits brought against it, on account of its action,
arise under the Constitution and laws of the United States and are
removable into the Federal court. Osborn v. Bank of United States,
9 Wheat. 738.
This court will judicially notice that a defendant corporation was incorporated by an act of Congress even though the petition fails so

to do.
The right to 'remove depends upon whether the suit could have been
brought originally in the Circuit Court of the United States. Cochran
v. Montgomery County, 199 U. S. 260.
Where the Circuit Court has jurisdiction by reason of the fact that the
defendant is a corporation created by anact of Congress, thejoinder
of other defendants, citizens of plaintiff's State does not prevent removal to the Circuit Court if there is no .separable controversy and all
the defendants unite in the petition.: the Federal character permeates
the entire case and affects all parties defendant.
When this court is called upon to exercise its own judgmeht, it will not
be controlled by decisions of state courts.

