JOHNSON v. MUESER.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

criminated against in the selection of the grand and petit jurors.
Indeed, there was a negro juror on the grand jury which indicted plaintiff in error, and there were negroes on the venire
from which the jury which tried the case was drawn, although
it happened that none of them were drawn out of the jury box.
The court said:
"It may be that the jury commissioners did not give the
negro race a full pro rata with the white race in the selection of
the grand and petit jurors in this case, still this would not be
evidence of discrimination. If they 'fairly and honestly endeavored to discharge their duty, and did not in fact discriminate against the negro race in the selection of the jury lists, then
the Constitution of the United States has not been violated,
We understand the rule to be that mere error in administering
the criminal law of the State, or in the conduct of a criminal
trial, no Federal right being invaded or denied, is beyond the
revisory power of the Supreme Court of the United Stat~s under
the Constitution and the statutes regulating its jurisdiction."
No other point requiring consideration, the result is
Judgment affirmed.

JOHNSON v. MUESER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUM3IA.
No. 67.

Argued January 12, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Frasch v. Moore, 211 U. S. 1,1 followed to effect that decisions of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in appeals from the Commissioner of Patents are not reviewable by this court.
Writ of error to review 20 App. D. C. 61, dismissed and certiorari denied.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
I For headnote in Frasch v. Moore, see post, p. 285.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

Mr. Melville Church; with whom Mr. James A. Carr was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Stephen J. Cox, with whom Mr. William Raimond Baird
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF" lUSTIcE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a proceeding of interference iWwhich the examiner
of interferences awarded priority to Mueser. This decision was
in turn affirmed by, the examiners-in-chiefs and by the Commissioner. From the decision of the Commissioner an appeal
was taken to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,
and that court affirmed the decision of the Commissioner of
Patents, and directed that its own decision be certified to the
Commissioner of Patents, as required by law. The court held
that in such a proceeding it would not review the actionof the
Patent Office in deciding that the issue was a patentable one,
but would confine ifs consideration to the question of priority
alone. 29 App. D. C. 61. And in the course of its opinion the
court said:
."It.must be borne in mind that the final judgment of this
court entitling a claimant to a patent, in either an-ex parte or an
interference proceeding, is not conclusive of either patentability
or priority. The patent, when issued, may be attacked in the
courts by parties whose interests may be affected by the monopoly claimed thereunder; and the defeated party has another
remedy by proceeding in a court of equity, as provided in ยง4915,
Rev. Stat."
We think our ruling in Frasch v. Moore, 211 U. S. 1,is applicable, and that this writ of error must be disposed of accordingly. The application for certiorari must take the same
course,
V rit of error dismissed.
Certioraridenied.

