OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

to the jury, and for the jury to decide as to its worth and weight.
The book was a part of the transaction testified to by the-defendant.
Various other questions were urged on the argument before
us, but as those already'discussed require a reversal of the
judgment, we do not think it necessary to notice them.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not take any part in the decision of

this case.

SPRECKELS v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 61.

Submitted December .11, 1908.-Decided February 1, 1909.

Although the Supreme Court of Hawaii has not authority to enter a
final judgment which is reviewable by this court when the case is
before it on bill of exceptions it may do so when a writ of error has
brought up.the judgment. Cotton v. Hawaii, 211 U. S. 162, distinguished.
Tax returns are not conclusive as to values. Where it sufficiently appears by--affidavits in the record and in this court that the value of
the lahd.involved exceeds the jurisdictional amount, the caise will not
be dismissed on a motion based on lower valuations in tax returns.
In Hawaii a disseisee may convey to a stranger, and a deed purporting
to reimise, release and forever quit claim amounts to a conveyance
of all the grantor's interest in the property at the time.
While the words "sea beach" taken in a strict sense might not include
a small strip outside of the metes and bounds specified in an Hawaiian
deed, where by natural interpretation the grant conveyed all the upland to low water mark, and with it all accretions, this court will not
reverse a ruling of the lower court to that effect.
In a deed to property in Hawaii monuments shown in a diagram held to
prevail, in case of discrepancy, over metes and bounds.
The party having the burden of proof is not entitled to a reversal because the jury was charged to find against him unless satisfied that

SPRECKELS v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

he had clearly proved his case even though the word "clearly" be
slightly overemphasized. Ward v. Cochran, 150 U. S. 597.
Where articles indicating the judge's leanings appear in a newspaper,
and one of the parties informs the judge that he need not give any
instructions to the jury as to reading the paper, the verdict cannot be
set aside because similar articles subsequently appeared in other
papers which may have been read by members of the jury.
The admission of affidavits of jurymen to eff6ct that they had not been
influenced by newspaper articles held to be immaterial, the order
overruling the motion for new trial being right on other grounds.
18 Hawaii, 91, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Mason F. Prosser and Mr. Robbins B. Anderson for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Charles A. Brown, defendant in error, pro se.
MR.

JUSTICE. HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought by the defendant in
error, Brown. He had a verdict and judgment, subject to exceptions. These were taken to the Supreme Court of Hawaii
by writ of error, the Supreme Court overruled the exceptions
and affirmed the judgment below, and the case then was brought
to this court. A motion to dismiss was made, 4,n the grounds
thiat the Supreme Court had no authority to enter final judgment, that it does not appear that the property in question is
worth five thousand dollars, and that the plaintiffs in error are
estopped to say that'it has that value by their tax returns,
under oath, valuing it at a less amount. This motion can be
disposed of in a few words., For the first ground, Meheula v.
Pioneer Mill Co., 17 Hawaii, 91, is relied upon. See also
Cotton v. Hawaii, 211 U. S. 162; Hutehins v. Bierce, 211 U. S.
429. But those cases deal with pro-,eedings upon a bill of exceptions alone.' Here there was, a writ of error, which, as the
Supreme Court;'of Hawaii pointed out in the decision cited,
brings up the judgment. As to the value of the land in dispute,
VQL,

cCXii-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

it sufficiently appears by affidavits in the record and in this
court, in which also there is an attempt to explain the low
valuation in the tax returns. Red River Cattle Co. v. Needham,
137 U. S. 632, 635, 636. The tax returns in any event are not
conclusive. Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., ante, p. 19. Therefore the motion to dismiss is overruled.
The .suit Is for two parcels of land, mostly accretions, on the
ocean side of Front street , Hilo, in Hawaii. The plaintiffs in
error are admitted to own the upland on the other side of the
street. For the first question raised upon the merits it is
enough to say that, subject to other questions to be discussed,
these parcels formerly belonged to Benjamin Pitman, together
with the upland; that after conveyance by him of the latter,
they passed to his wife by devise, and that she, while disseised,
executed a deed purporting to "remise, release and forever
quit claim" to the defendant in error, Brown, a stranger, "all
(her) right, title and interest in and to" the premises. The
plaintiffs in error contend, and asked rulings to that effect,
that a deed in that form by a disseisee to a stranger is void.
We should be very slow to import into Hawaii a purely historical and uselessly technical reminiscence, when the courts of
the Territory say that their usage has neglected it. Here as
there the words quoted carry, even to professional minds, the
notion of conveyance, as fully as the words give and grant.
They suggest a possible infirmity of title, or an unwillingness
of the grantee to take risks, but they are not limited in popular
understanding to a release to a party already in. They hardly
ever suggest that idea. Especially where as here the conveyance is upon a substantial consideration ($5,000), it'ought to
be upheld; as it would be upheld trf a jurisdiction which has
furnished its share of precedents to Hawaii.
In Massachusetts the principle that a deed of quitclaim and
release is sufficient to pass all the estate that the grantee could
convey' by a deed of bargain and sale early was established by
judicial decision. Prayv. Pierce, 7 Massachusetts, 381; Russell
v. Coffin, 8 Pick. 143, 153; Freeman v. McGaw, 15 Pick. 82,

SPRECKELS v. BROWN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

86, 87. See Moelle v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 21, 28. And this
principle was embodied in the first revision of the statutes, the
-section having been inserted by the Commissioners "to remove
all doubts as to a mode of conveyance, which long has prevailed throughout the Commonwealth; and to which there is
no objection, but what is merely technical and formal." Rev.
Stats. of Mass., 1836, p. 405, c. 59, § 5, and Commissioners'
Notes. Rev. Laws of Mass., 1902, p. 1222, c. 127, § 2. (It appears, in his handwriting, that this. note was written by Judge
Jackson, who was especially learned in real property law.)
The principle is carried so far that a release of the grantor's
right, title and interest is held sufficient to bar an entail and
remainders expectant thereon, Allen v. Ashley School Fund,
102 Massachusetts, 262, 265; Coombs v. Anderson, 138 Massachusetts, 376, 378, under a statute allowing it to be done by a
deed in common form, Gen. Stat., c. 89, §4, Pub. Stat. of 1882,
c. 120, § 5, p. 732, Rev. Law, c. 127, § 24, although the obvious
and established construction of the words "my right, title and
interest" confines them to the estate actually owned at the time.
Allen v. Holton, 20 Pick. 458. The right of a disseisee to convey is a different question from the one we have been discussing, but that is not disputed, and in Hawaii seems to be
established by law.
It will be remembered that the land in controversy consists
of two parcels on the ocean side of Front street. One, called
the Bates land, lies between the lines of King street and
Waianuenue street extended, these streets being at right angles
with Front street; and one called the Kalaeloa land, lies on the
further side of King street. The court instructed the jury that
the plaintiff had made out a complete paper title to these two
lots. This ruling is challenged on several grounds. The Bates
land is supposed to have come to Pitman through mesne conveyances from a grant from King Kamehameha III to Elizabeth G. I. Bates. ,This conveyed the upland above Front street
down to what then was its upper side, "and also the sea beach
in front of the same down to low-water mark." As the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

comes to us the facts appear but imperfectly, but it would
seem that if the words "the sea beach" be taken in a very
strict sense, there would have been a strip not conveyed, between the front lines of the upland as described by metes and
bounds and the beach, that is, high-water mark; in which case
the accretions now in question would not belong to the plaintiff. This is the first ground of challenge. But it would be
impossible, on this record, for us to say that the ruling was
wrong, and we see no reason whatever to doubt that it was
right. The natural interpretation is that the King conveyed
the upland and all in front of it to low-water mark. The matter
was discussed very fully by the Supreme Court. It said that
the area between the part described and high-water mark was
not very extensive, was of little value, and was closely connected with the upper part in use. We gather that if the evidence were before us we should be confirmed in our opinion
that on this point the ruling was right.
The other land is claimed under a Land Commission award
and royal patent to Kalaeloa. The latter, as translated from
Hawaiian, bounded the land." Beginning at the west corner of
this, adjoining the edge of the street (King street) along the
edge of the sea," with a description by courses and distances
and area. There was also a diagram enclosing the upland in
heavy lines, and extending the sides by dotted lines across a
space marked Beach to the edge of the sea. It is said that the
measurements go only to the street, although the defendant
in error affirms that the area would include the beach. We see
no reason why the monuments should not prevail, as usual,
if there is a discrepancy as alleged.
Kalaeloa conveyed to Pitman. The deed is not in the record,
but it was assigned as error that the court instructed the jury
that the words "with the right of extension to low-water
mark" covered the lot in question. If anything is open on
this assignment, we are of opinion that the ruling was right.
We may add at this point that it is not argued here that the
conveyances by Pitman under which the plaintiffs in error

SPRECKELS v. BROWN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claim carried the land on. the ocean side of Front street. That
.remained in Pitman and passed by his-devise to his wife..
The plaintiffs in error contend that the trial court erred in
-its instructions to the jury with regard to the apportionment
of accretions. The evidence is not before us, and they rely
simply on a statement in the opinion of the Supreme Court.
As that court said, they did not claim the portion concerned,
and were trying to set aside the verdict on the weakness of the
plaintiff's title alone. The Supreme Court was of opinion that
the instructions were wrong but that, so far-as appeared, the
verdict was right, and declined to .set it aside or to require a
remittitur as a condition of not doing so. It does not appear
that there was error in this course.
*The plaintiffs in error set up the defense of adverse
possession. They admit that the burden was upon them to prove it,
-but assign as error that the jury was instructed to find against
them, unless satisfied by a preponderance of evidence that
they had "clearly" proved it. The slight over-emphasis in the
word "clearly," if it was such, is not a sufficient ground for
disturbing the verdict. See Ward v. Cochran, 150 U. S. 597,
606.
The final assignments of error are for the refusal to grant a
nexd trial. It seems that after a long trial the plaintiff (defendant in error) moved the court to direct a verdict. In the absence of the jury the judge stated that he was inclined in favor
of the plaintiff, but did not want to grant the motion, as
there was still some doubt in his mind. He 'added that should
the jury render a verdict for the defendant, and should a motion be made to set it aside, he might do so. He made these
remarks, supposing that no reporter was present, but they
were printed in the evening paper, with a heading "Favors the
Plaintiff." This was called to the attention of the judge, and
he was proceeding to instruct the jury not to read the papers of
.that evening or the next morning, when. the counel for the
defendants said: "Your honor, I presume, refers to.the article
in the Evening Bulletin. We do not ask for such an order.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

Let the jurors read the papers, we will take our chances."
In the morning, in consequence of an imputation, there was
some inquiry into the responsibility for the article, proof that
the plaintiff had .nothing to do with it, and mutual apologies.
The judge instructed the jury that whatever remarks were
made by the court were made without having heard counsel,
and were not intended to influence the jury, and pointed out
that the jury were the judges of the facts. In short, every
'effort was made by all concerned to have the jury disregard
the whole matter. The morning paper, however, reprinted a
part of the article, with a heading "Judge De Bolt leans to
plaintiff,", etc., and stated that in reply to the reporter the
judge said that he did make such an intimation of his views,
that he did it to save time in arguing the motion, but was not
aware that any member of the press was present. One ground
of the motion for a new trial was that these papers were read
by several of the jurors before the case was submitted to them,
and afterwards were read aloud in the jury room.
It appears to us that the motion could not have been granted'
on the facts as we have stated them, following the statement
of the trial judge. In the first place, the remarks, although
they indicated a present leaning, disclosed a present doubt,
and by no means promised that a verdict for the defend'ants
would be set aside. They meant little or nothing more than
that by refusing to direct a verdict the judge did not preclude
another application by the plaintiff if he should not. prevail.
The morning papers added nothing substantial to the article
of the evening before. The evening article purported to report
the words, the morning one to give a verification of their having been spoken. But there was no reasonable doubt of the
truth of the first report, and the truth was assumed in what
was said to the jury on the matter. The waiver by the counsel
of the defendants, although there are some slight differences
in the reports of it, was understood to be, and is found to have
been, in general terms, and to have applied to any other papers
as well as the Evening Bulletin. It 'would be most unjust to

THE STANDARD OIL CO. v. ANDERSON.
212 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

interpret it otherwise now. The defendants said they would
take their chances at a time when there were several ways in
which the jury could have been prevented from seeing the
papers or seeing them further. They stopped the court from
even giving the jury instructions. It is too late now to complain.
It is objected that the judge erred in admitting affidavits of
the jurymen that they were not influenced by the reading of
the article. AIattox v..United States, 146 U. S. 140. This error
is immaterial, as the order overruling the new trial was right
on other grounds.
Judgment affirmed.

THE STANDARD OIL COMPANY v. ANDERSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 58.

Argued January 7, 1909.-Decided February 1, 1909.

One in the general service of another may be so transferred to the service of a third person as to become the latter's servant with-all the
legal consequences of the new relation; but to change the relation and
relieve the master requires more than the mere fact that the servant
is sent to do work pointed out by Such third party who has made a
bargain with the master fbr his services.
A winchman employed by the person furnishing the hoisting power to

a master stevedore for loading a vessel, held to remain that person's
servant notwithstanding the hoisting signals were given by the steve-

dore's foreman and not to be a fellow servant of an employ6 of the
stevedore who was injured by his negligence.
152 Fed. Rep. 166, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Fuller for petitioner:
The defendant and the negligent winchman did not sustain.

