536

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument tr Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
v. BOURMAN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
-IFTH CIRCUIT.'

No. 56.

Argued January 6, 7, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

The engineer of a'train, and the section foreman, are fellow-servants of
a section hand, and the latter cannot recover against the employer
for an injury occurring through the negligence of either of the forme ._
Northern Pacific Railroadv. Egeland, 163 U. S. 93, distinguished.
160 Fed. Rep. 452, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr..Charles Payne Fenner, with whom Mr. William Wirt
Howe was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff's injury was not due to. any negligence on the part
of the railway company. A plaintiff, in the first instance,
must show negligence on,the part of the defendant. The negligence of a defendant, as stated in that case, cannot be inferred
from a presumption of care on the part of the person injured.
A presumption in the performance of duty attends the defend-ant as well as the person injured. It must be overcome by direct evidence. Looney v. Metropolitan R. R. Co., 200 U. S.
480-488.
There is no proof, or even pretense, that the railway company did not provide a safe place to work, that the appliances
were not safe, or that there were any of those defects in machinery, track; platforms or the like which sometimes afford
grounds of complaint, as considered in the case of Choctaw &c.
R. R. Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64.
Nor is there any proof, of negligence on the part of any employ6 of the railway company, except Bourman himself. Coyne
v. Union Pac. Ry. Co., 133 U. S. 370.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. BOURMAN.
212 U. S.

537

Argument for Defendant in Error.

It -is obvious that, even if the evidence did show any negligence on the part of defendant's employ6s other than Bourman himself, then it was the negligence of plaintiff's fellowservants. Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Stuber, 108 Fed. Rep.
934; Thorn v. Pittard, 67 Fed. Rep. 232; Northern Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Charless, 162 U. S. 359; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v.
Camp, 65 Fed. Rep. 952; Martin v. Railway Co., 65 Fed. Rep.
,384; Coulson v. Leonard, 77 Fed. Rep. 538; Railroad Co. v.
Egeland, 163 U. S. 73,.discussed and distinguished.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. Albert Voorhies, Mr.
A. E. Livaudais; Mr. Oliver S. Livaudais and Mr. Alexander
Britton were on the brief, for defendant in error:
Thegenerally-acknowledgdd doctrine under the law is that a
servant entering employment impliedly agrees with his master
to assume all ordinary risks incidental to the service,.including
that of negligence on the part of a fellow-servant, unless the
master's personal negligence caused, or operated to cause, the
injury complained of, See Barrows on Negligence, 125.
A servant has a right to expect a reasonable degree of care
on the part of his master and those in authority under his master, and he may act in accordance with this assumption.
Dresser, Employers' Liability, Assumption of Risks, par. 111,
p. 528. If the master's negligence concurs with that of a fellowservant to produce injury, the servant may recover, provided
he did not, by his own negligence, contribute to the result.
Barrows on Negligence, p. 146; Tutrix v. Sellers, 39 La. Ann.
1011; Powers v. Calcasieu Sugar Company, 48 La. Ann. 483;
McCarthy v. Whitney Iron Works, 48 La. Ann. 978; Bland &
Wife v. Shreveport Belt Railway Company, 48 La. Ann. 1057;
Wilson v. La. & N. W. R. Co., 51 La. Ann. 1134; S. ,C. 108
La. 590; I. C. R. R. v. Josey, 54 L. R. A. 78. See also: Wenona Coal Co. v. Holmquist, 152 IM. Rep. 590;' A. A. Patten v.
Railroad Co., 96.N. C. Sup. Rep. 455.
Even admitting that the accident, was due to the fault of
either the foreman, conductor or eigineer, having the train in

OCTOBER TER1M, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

charge, this case comes under the exception where the company
cannot avoid responsibility, for the reason that they themselves participated in the negligence and contributed to the accident. Quebec Steamship Company v. Merchant, 133 U. S. 375.
The defendant was not guilty of negligence in leaving the
train in the manner shown. by the evidence, nor can he be held
accountable for having done so, because he was, following the
instructions of his superior, the vice principal of the company,
his employer; and, that to be made guilty of negligence in
obeying said order, it must be shown that he voluntarily arid
unnecessarily exposed himself to the danger. David Ballard'
v. C., R. L & P. R. Co., 51 Missouri, 453; Northern Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Egeland, 56 Fed:Rep. 200; affirmed. 163 U. S. 93;.Brown
v. Ohio & Miss. Ry. Co., 138 Ind. Rep. 648; McGinn v. McCormick, 109 La. Ann. 396; Hunn v. R. R. Co., 44 N. W. Rep.
502; R. R., Co. v. Charless, 162 U. S. 359; Grand Trunk Ry. Co.
v. Cummings, 106 U. S. 700;,Milwaukee v. St. Paul R. R., 112
U.S. 377; Ellis v. N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co., 95 N. Y. 546.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, hereafter clled the plaintiff, brought
an action in the Circuit Court of the United States against the
plaintiff in error, hereafter called, the' defendant, to recover
damages for injuries alleged .to have been suffered through the
defendant's negligence. The plaintiff had a verdict, which was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and under existing
statutes regulating the jurisdiction of this court the defendant,
because it is incorporated under a law of the United States, has
a further appeal, and brings the judgment here by writ of error.
The facts of the case are few and simple. The plaintiff was a
section hand employed by the defendant and working under
direction of a foreman named Hadnott. The plaintiff, with
others, had been employed under Hadnott's direction in clearing
up a wreck near a flag station on the defendant's road. When
the work was finished the men were taken aboard an express

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. BOURMAN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

passenger train, known as the Cannon Ball, to be conveyed to
Waggaman, a regular station on the road, where they lived.
The express ordinarily did not stop at Waggaman, but simply
slowed down to take on the mail. The conductor, however,
directed the engineer to stop on this occasion and let the section
hands off, and the train-did in fact stop at Waggaman, though
whether as the result of the order or of the injury to the plaintiff was in dispute. As the train approached Waggaman the
men were standing on the steps of the car, ready to alight, and
the'train was slackening its speed. The plaintiff was on the
lower step. What happened is shown by the plaintiff's testimony. He said:
"I stood all the time on the platform. The train blew for the
station. When she blew we all got on the steps wiLAi our tools
in our hands. She was slacking up speed. I was on the lower
step, holding on to the rod of the step. That was the way to get
off when we was to get off at the depot. The foreman said:
'Boys, throw your tools off, and let us get off.' That was before
she got to the station; and when she slacked up, she slacked up
slow enough for anybody to get off, and when I went to get off
she jerked; and I grabbed, and the engineer put more speed to
the engine, and that threw me down and I could not let go, and
she dragged Ame along until I got weak in the arms, and let go.
She was running slow and she slacked up speed, and then she
letgo again and she made a jerk. After she slacked she started
up again. I held on until I lost my grip and could not hold on
ny more. I fell, going under, and the wheel run over my leg.
The conductor hallooed to theengineer to back up the train.
He said: 'He ought to be satisfied.'"
On cross-exain-tioiihe-testified. as follows:
"Q. Did he (the foreman) speak to you? A. No, sir; he did
not.
"Q. He said nothing to you at all? A. When we were on the
way coming we were all speaking, but when the train slacked
up-when they blew the whistle for the train to stop at the depot, he told us, 'Boys, get your tools, we will get off.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

"Q. That was while she was slacking up? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. You say that you jumped when the train slowed at the
depot? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. That was before it stopped?' A. She was not going to
stop there at all.
"Q. You did not know that, that is, before she stopped?
A. Well, she did not stop at all.
"Q. You juinped while the train was moving? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Then you say. that the train started up suddenly? A.
Yes, sir; at the time I was getting off,. she jerked before I
jumped loose.
"Q. Do you think it would have been the same, that you
would have been hurt if the train had not started again?
A. No, sir; I do not think it would."
The petition, which was very inartificially drawn, does not.
clearly state the ground upon which the plaintiff sought to hold
the defendant liable'. It states generally that "said misfortune"
was "due to the fault and negligence of the said defendants;"
that the plaintiff was "entitled to a safe transport" to Waggaman; and that the "train being about to pass the station your
petitioner had no further alternative than when ordered by his
foreman to jurmp from the moving train, which just then increased its speed."
-The answer denied the allegations of the petition and averred,
that if the plaintiff was injured it was by his own voluntary act
in jumping from the train or through the negligence of one or
the other of his fellow-servants-the section foreman, or the
conductor and engineer of the train.
But passing the question of pleadings, upon which nothing
seems to have turned below, we consider the case as it appears
from the evidence. Since the plaintiff jumped from the train
in obedience to a suggestion, if not an order, of his immediate
superior, the -section foreman, the jury might have found that
the plaintiff reasonably thought he could rely upon the judgment of the section foreman, and that under the circumstances
the plaintiff's act was not soobviously reckless and dangerous

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. BOURMAN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to constitute contributory negligence. Northern PacificRailroad v. Egeland, 163 U. S. 93. It becomes necessary, then,,
to consider the negligence of the defendant. The evidence dis-'
closes two possible grounds upon which a recovery might be
rested; first, carelessness of the section foreman in directing the
plaintiff to jump when he did; second, carelessness of the engineer in suddenly starting up the train after it had slowed down.
These two possible causes of the plaintiff's injury were distinctly
before the jury and the defendant had the right to appropriate
instructions upon the issues thus raised. The jury may well
have based its verdict on either the carelessness of the section
foreman or the carelessness of the engineer. Indeed, it is difficult to see any other theory upon which the verdict was rendered. It may be, as thought by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that the instructions to the jury were academically correct,, so
far as they went, but they omitted to cover vitally important
aspects of the case and were therefore insufficient.
The presiding judge refused to instruct the jury as requested
by the defendant, that the engineer and the section foreman
were, respectively, fellos-servants of the plaintiff, and that if
the injury occurred through the negligence of either, the plaintiff was not entitled to recover. We think these instructions
should have been given. Both the engineer and the section
foreman were fellow-servants of the plaintiff and if the plaintiff's injury was caused by the'negligence of either, the law, as
it many times has been declared by this court, will not permit a
recovery. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368;
Northern Pacific Railroad v. Hambly, 154 U. S. 349; Central
Railroad Company v. Keegan, 160. U. S. 259; Northern Pacific
Railroad v. Peterson, 162 U. S. 346; Northern Pacific Railroad
v. Charless, 162 U. S. 359; Martin'v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Railroad, 166 U. S. 399; A laska Mining Company v,Whelan,
168 U. S. 86; New'England Railrbad v. Conroy, 175 U. S. 323;
Northern Pacific Railroad v. Dixon, 194 U. S.338.
The case of Northern Pacific Railroad v. Egeland, supra,
which evidently was misunderstood in the court below, is not

C542

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

in any way inconsistent with the foregoing cases. The fellowservant doctrine was not there considered by the court.. The
plaintiff in that case was a section hand, Who received injuries
by jumping from a moving train in' obedience to the order of
the conductor. The only question before this court was whether
the act of the plaintiff was in itself, as matter of law, contributory negligence, and it was held that under the circumstances
disclosed in the evidence it was proper to submit the question
of contributory negligence to the jury. It does not appear in
thai case what was the negligence for which the plaintiff sought
to hold the defendant responsible.. In the trial court the defendant made two requests: First, that no negligence on the part
of the defendapt was shown; and,.second, that the plaintiff was
guilty of suclh, contributory negligence that he could nIot recover. The defendant saw fit to bring to this court only the
question of contributory negligence, and the opinion of the
court expressly stated that the discussion would be confined to
that question alone. An examination of the case, as it was exhibited tothe Circuit Court of Appeals, discloses that contributory negligence was the only question, passed upon by that
court. 56. Fed. Rep., 200.:

Jyudgment reversed.,

TOY TOY v. HOPKINS, UNITED STATES MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF .THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

*

No. 49.

Argued December 9, 1908.-7Decided February 23, 1909.

After the Circuit Court of the United' States has'heard and passed on
evidence affecting- its jurisdiction, its judgment is open to review in
the appellate court by writ of error, but the judgment cannot be attacked collaterally as absolutely void.
.Even though the Circuit Court erroneously retains jurisdiction of a
criminal case. against an allottee Indian, its judgment is not void but

should. be corrected on appeal or by writ of error. and cannot be attacked in habea8 corpus proceedings...
a

