OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

HAMMOND PACKING COMPANY v. STATE OF
ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No, 54.

Argued February 24, 25, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

The right of a State to prevent foreign corporations from continuing to
do business-within its borders, is the correlative of its right to exclude
them therefrom; and, as"this power is plenary, the State, so long as
no contract is impaired, may exert it from consideration of acts done
in another jurisdiction.
If the power exists to revoke a permit, the question of motive is immaterial for the purpose of determining the constitutionality of the legislative action exerting the power.
The difference between the extent of the power which the State may
exert over the doing of business within its borders by an individual,
and that which it can exercise as to corporations, furnishes a distinction authorizing a classification between the two which does not
violate, the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Where, as in this. case, penal provisions as to individuals are separable,
and the state court has so construed the statute, any lack of constitutional authority to enact the statute as to individuals would not
render the statute unconstitutional as to corporations.
The chartered right of a corporation to 4o business does not operate to
deprive the State of its police power, and the franchise to do business
is qualified by the duty to do so conformably to lawful and proper
police regulations thereafter enacted.
The claim of an irrepealable contract cannot be predicated upon a contract which is repealable; and, where the reserved power to repeal, alter
and amend charters is only to be exercised without injustice, it is
within the province of the state court to determine whether it has
been so exercised, and its decision cannot be reviewed by this court
unless a contract has been impaired or some other and fundamental
right within the protection -of the Federal Constitution has been denied.
Where the state court has decided that the penal provisions of a statute
relate- to both domestic and foreign corporations, a foreign corporation cannot claim that the contract between it and the State admitting it, on payment of the franchise tax, to do business on the same

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

terms as a domestic corporation has been impaired by the revocation
of its permit for violation of such statute. Am. Smelting Co. v.
Colorado, 204 U. S. 403, distinguished.
A state statute requiring corporations to produce books and papers
which has been construed by the highest court of the State to the
effect that its requirements are satisfied by a bona fide effort to comply with its provisions or a reasonable showing of inability to comply therewith is not an arbitrary and unjust exercise of authority
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and so held as to such provisions in the Arkansas Anti-Trust Law.
Relief cannot be afforded by this court to one who violates the provisions of a state statute from an erroneous conception of what the
statute requires.
Under the visitorial powers of a State over corporations doing business
within its borders it is competent-for if to compel such corporations
to produce their books and papers for investigation and to require
the testimony of their officers and employ~s to ascertain whether its
laws have been - complied with, and this power extends to the production of books and papers kept outside of the State, and a statute
requiring such production does not amount, to an unreasonable search
or seizure or a denial of due process of law. Consolidated Rendering
Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541.
Quwre and not decided whether the due process clause of the Fourtepnth
Amendment embraces in its general terms a prohibition of unreason-...
able searches or seizures.
An order made pursuant to statute in a suit for penalties for violations
of a state anti-trust law requiring a corporation to produce books and
papers does not deny due process of law because thereunder the State
may elicit proof not only as to the liability of the corporation but also
proof in its possession relevant to its defense. Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43.
If a state statute requiring the production of papers is constitutional
the motive of the State fo: acting thereunder is immaterial.
Statutory regulations dealing exclusively with persons or property not
within the borders of the State, if otherwise valid, are not upconstitutional as denying equal protection of the law. CentralLoan & Trust
Co. v. Campbell, 173 U. S. 84.
The wider scope of the power of the State over corporations than over
individuals affords a basis for separate classification as to the production of books and papers.
A state statute requiring corporations to produce, and creating a pre. sumption of fact as to bad faith and untruth of a defense by reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

of suppression of material evidence, does not deny due process of
law; nor does an order of the court based on such a statute striking
out the answer of a defendant corporation which has refused to produce material evidence deny due procesa and condemn -him unheard.
Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409, in which the order striking the answer from the files was in the nature of a punishment for contempt,
distinguished.
81 Arkansas, 519, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain provisions of the ant i-trust statute of the State of Arkansas and
the validity of proceedings in the courts of the State thereunder,
are stated -in
the opinion.
THE

Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. W. E. Hemingway, with whom
Mr. George B. Rose and Mr. Ralph Crews were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
Section 1 of the act in question, as construed by the Supreme
Court of the State of Arkansas, impairs the obligation of the
contract between the defendant as a foreign corporation, and
the State, whereby the defendant was permitted to do business
within the State; and is therefore violative of § 10, Art. l'of the
Constitution of the United States. American Smelting & Refining Co. v. Colorado, 204 U. S.103; Concurring opinion of Mr.
Justice Wood, 100 S.W. Rep. 1099; Hartford Ins. Co. v. State,
89 S. W. Rep. 42; § 11, art. 12, constitution of Arkansas;
§§ 824, 825, 826, 827 and 828, Kirby's Digest Statutes of
Arkansas; 15 A. & E. Ency. Law (2d ed.), p. 1049; Commonwealth v. Proprietorsof New Bedford Bridge, 2 Gray, 339; Washington Bridge Co. v. State, 18 Connecticut, 53; N. M. Co. v.
Coon, 6 Pa. St. 379; State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds, 15 Wall.
320; Gordon V. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133; Wendover v.
Lexington, 15 B. Monroe, 258; Attorney General v. Bank of
Charlotte, 4 Jones Equity (N. C.), 293; Miller v. State, 15 Wall.
497; Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Savannah, 30 Fed. Rep. 646; Erie
R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628; C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Ludwig, Secy. of State, 156 Fed. Rep. 152; Commonwealth v. M. &
0. R.R. Co., 64 S. W. Rep. 452; SeaboardAir Line R. R. Co. v.

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Errar.

R. R. Com. of Alabama, 155 Fed. Rep. 792; British Am. Mtg.
Co. v. Jones, 56 S. E. Rep. 983.
Section 1 of the act in question legislates relating to transactions occiurring beyond the limits of the State. of Arkansas, and
is therefore extra-territorial, and its enforcement would constitute a taking of the property of defendant without due process of law, and constitute a denial to it of the equal protection
of the law, contrary to the terms: of the Fourteenth Amendment. Casey v. State, 53 Arkansas, 334; Cooley's Const; Lim.
176; People v. Butler St. Foundry Co., 201 Illinois, 236; Chicago
Wall PaperMills v. General PaperCo., 147 Fed. Rep. 491; Cargyle Co. v. Minnesota, 182 U. S. 452; Carroll v. Greenwich Ins.
Co., 199 U. S. 409; Santa Clara Co. V. So. Pac. Ry., 118 U. S.
394; Charlotte &c. Ry. Co. v. Gibbs, 142 U. S. 386; Covington
&c. Co. v. Stanford, 164 U. S. 578; Mo. Pac.Ry. v. Mackey, 127
U. S. 209; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Smith, 41 S. W. Rep. 687; Baltimore &c. Ry. v. Read, 62 N. E. Rep. 488.
So much of § 8 of the act as purports to authorize the court
to make an order for the production of Witnesses, books and
papers, is unconstitutional and void, and did not Warrant the
making of an order in pursuance of~ts provisions.
It subjects the defendant to unreasonable search and seizure
of its books, papers and documents, and thereby violates the
Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States.
It calls upon the defendant to produce evidence to be used
against itself in a penal action, and thereby violates the Fifth
and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States.
It denies to the defendant the equal protection of the: law,
and constitutes a taking of its property Without due process. of
law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Boyd v. United States, '116 U. S.
617; Monongahela &c. Co. v. United States; 148 U. S. 325; Interstate Commerce Com. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 479; Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Logan v. Pa. Ry. Co., 132 Pa. St. 403;

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

Cooley's Const. Lim. 368 et seq.; Lester v. People,150 Illinois, 408;
Rothwill v. Bank, 20 Hun, 517; Commonwealth v. Lottery Tickets,
5 Cush. 369; Sanford v. Nichols, 13 Massachusetts, 286; Lee v.
Angas, L. R. 2 Eq. 39; Ex parte Brown, 72 Missouri, 83; Tharp
v. Paige, 66 Arkansas, 229; State v. Slamon, 73 Vermont, 212;
Peoplev. Western Ins. Co., 40 Ill. App. 428; Boyle v. Schmidtland,
146 Pa. St., 255; Gunn v. Railway, 50 N. E Rep. 132; Gulf &c.
Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Mackey, 127
U. S. 209; Central &c. v. Board of Trade, 125 Fed. Rep. 468;
3 Wigmore on Evidence, § 2259; State v. Simmons Hardware
Co., 18 S. W. Rep. (Mo.) 1125; Cooley's Const. Lim. 370; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S.
591.

.

When the State goes into the courts for the assertion of its
rights it goes upon an equality with other litigants. State v.
Morgan, 52 Arkansas, 150; Brent v. Bank, 10 Pet. 596; The
Siren, 7 Wall. 159; United States v. Beebe, 17 Fed. Rep. 41.
So much of § 9 of the act as purports to authorize the court
to strike from the files the. pleadings of the defendant upon its
failure to comply with the terms of the order entered pursuant
to § 8, is unconstitutional and void, and the judgment so rendered oonstitutes a taking of the property of the defendant
without due process of law, and a denial to it of the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the terms of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.. McVeigh v. United States, 11 Wall, 259; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93
U. S. 274.; Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 444; Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 617; Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Bradstreet v,. Neptune Ins. Co.,
3 Sumn. 601; Adams v. Postal Telegraph Co., 155 U. S. 689,
698; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 330; Lasere v. Rochereau, 17 Wall.
437; Simon v. Croft, 182 U. S. 427; Cooley's Const. Lim. (6th
ed.) 452; Myers v. Shields, 61 Fed. Rep. 718; Burton v. Platter,
53 Fed. Rep. 901; Zeigler v. RA R. Co., 58.Alabama, 594; State
ex rel. v. Billings, 55 Minnesota, 473; Foley v. Foley, 52 Pac.
Rep. 122; Younger v. Superior Court, 69 Pac. Rep. 485; Mc-

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Clatchey v. Superior Court, 51 Pac. Rep. 696; Greig v. Ware, 55
Pac. Rep. 163; State v. Clancy, 61 Pac. Rep. 897; Hebb v. County
Court, 37 S. E. Rep. 678; Underwood v. McVeigh, 23 Grattan
(Va.), 409; Fairfax v. Alexander, 28 Grattan (Va.), 16; State v.
City of New Orleans, 42 La. Ann. 92; Re the Fred M. Lawrence,
94 Fed. Rep. 1017; Altschule v. Doyle, 55 California, 633;
Fayerweather v. Richt, 88 Fed. Rep. 713; Warner v. Godfrey,
186 U. S.365; Baltimore &c. Ry. v.. Reade, 62 N. k. Rep. 488;
Chapman v. Phcenix Bank, 85 N. Y. 437; Grinson v. Edwards,
21 W. Va. 347; Russell v. Grant, 122 Missouri, 161; State v.
Railway Co., 45 S. C. 464; Darr, Administrator, v. Rohr, 82
Virginia, 359; Schlitz v. Roenitz, 86 Wisconsin, 36; Carroll &c.
v. Parks, 32 Arkansas, 131; Hickman v. Kempner, 35 Arkansas,
505; State v. Newton, 33 Arkansas, 276; Little Rock &c. Ry. v.
Payne, 33 Arkansas,. 816; Smith v. Leach, 44 Arkansas, 287;
Clayton v. Johnson, 36 Arkansas, 406.
Mr. Lewis Rhoton and Mr. James H. Stevenson, with whom
Mr. F. Guy Fulk, Mr. W. F. Kirby, Mr. W. L. Terry, and Mr.
W. M. Lewis were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The act of 1905 was passed in the exercise of the reserved
power of the State to alter, amend or repeal the laws affecting
corporations. The appellant by entering the State assented to
this reservation, and by remaining in'the State after the act
took effect assented to be bound by the terms thereof. Constitution of Arkansas, art. 12, § 11; American Smelting & Refining Co. v. Colorado, 204 U. S.103; C.,.R. I. & P. Ry. v. Ludwig,
156 Fed. Rep. 152.
The right of the State to prescribe conditions upon the right
of the defendant and.other foreign and domestic corporations
to do business in Arkansas, and to lay burdens and duties upon.
them, flows from the reservation in art. 12, § 6, of its constitution. The only limitation upon this right is .contained in the
provision that such alteration, amendment or revocation of
charters shall be made "in such manner, however, that no injustice shall be done to corporators."

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

212 U. S.

What would be a just or unjust amendment or alteration of
the laws governing corporate privileges, under this constitutional provision, is and must be a question for the state court,
and is not a Federal question.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas has held that this act is
valid, under the constitution of Arkansas. Hartford Ins. Co. v.
State, 76 Arkansas, 303.
On the hearing of this cause below, the Supreme Court of
Arkansas necessarily, in holding that §§ 8 and 9 were valid,
held that their enactment was within the constitutional power
of amendment reserved to the State. The highest court of a
State is the tribunal of last resort upon all questions of the
validity of a state statute as measured by the state constitution. Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491; Mo. Pac. Ry. v.
Humes, 115 U. S. 512, 520; Fallbrook Irr. Dist. v. Bradley, 164
U. S. 112; French.v. Barber Asphalt Co., 181 U. S. 324; Hibben
v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310; Olsen,v. Smith, 195 U. S. 332; National
Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 130, 131; Waters-Pierce Oil
Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28, 43; Hunter v. Pittsburgh,207 U. S. 67.
Furthermore, the Supreme Court of Arkansas, in the case at
bar, has held that these sections are valid, under the constitution of Arkansas-i. e., that they constitute such regulations
as fall within the reserved power of the State to alter, amend
or repeal the laws. governing corporations. Upon this proposition, likewise, the decision of the highest court of the State is
conclusive. Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700; Miller v. State,
15 Wall. 498; Holyoke Co. v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 519; Tomlinson
v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 459; Railway Co. v. Maine, 96 U. S. 510;
Shields v.;Ohio, 95 U. S. 324; Woodson v. State, 69 Arkansas, 521;
Railway v. Leep, 54 Arkansas, 101.
A foreign corporation which comes into a State does so under
an implied agreement to all the powers of the State reserved
by its constitution. State v. Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, 91
S. W. Rep. 1062; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28;
Bank of Augusta v. Earl, 13 Pet. 519; Hooper v. California, 155
U.S. 648.

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

329

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The act in question does not punish for acts committed b.yond the jurisdiction of the State of Arkansas. The doing of
business in Arkansas under given circumstances, and not the
formation of the combination, is the gist of the .prohibited
action. Hartford Ins. Co. v. State, 76 Arkansas, 303; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; Armour Packing Co. vN.
Lacy, 200 U. S. 226.
Section 8 of the act, referring to the production of witnesses,
books, papers and documents to be used as' evidence, etc., is
not invalid as contended. Hammond Packing Co. V. State, 81
Arkansas, 540, 541; Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont,.
207 U. S. 541; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; State v. Standard
Oil Co., 91 S. W. Rep. 1162; National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas,
197 U. S. 133.
Section 9 of the, act prescribes a procedure which meets all
the requirements of due process of. law, and under the. facts as
shown in the record, plaintiff in error has not been deprived of
its property without due process of law. Holden v. Hardy, 169
U. S. 366; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 178; Iowa v. Iowa
Cent. Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 389; L. & N. Ry. Co.. v. Schmidt, 177
U. S. 230; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169 U. S. 586; Hovef v.
Elliott, 167.U. S. 409, distinguished..
The essentials of due process of law as required by the
Fourteenth Amendment are notice and opportunity to defend.
A party has no constitutional right to any'particular form of
procedure or to have applied to a case the rules of procedure
which are derived from the common law.
The States, subject only to the qualification that they can
not wholly deny a defendant some sort of terms, hAve the free
and uncontrolled right to prescribe new forms of procedure and
impose terms and conditions upon parties in their courts.
There is no fixed standard by which the sufficiency of the
notice or opportunity to be heard shall be measured; and that
the States may constitutionally abolish the ordinary or common law rules governing the hearing of cases and substitute

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

other procedures, so long as they give some sort of notice and
opportunity to be heard.
Arising out of the distinction between the powers of the
States and of the Federal Government, there is a distinction
between the due process of law under the Fourteenth and
Fifth Amendments, , at least to the extent that the States nay
authorize procedures in their own courts, even unknown to the
common law.
The cohtemporaneous construction of the due process phrase
of the Fifth Amendment, placed upon it by the Congress which
proposed it, by the passage of the act of 1789, demonstrates
that a default judgment may be authorized by statute for refusal to produce evidence, without a denial of due process.
The legislation and decisions of the several States, authorizing such default judgments, demonstrate that the same have
never been regarded as denying the due process of law.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Hammond Packing Company, an Illinois corporationhereafter called the Hammond Company-seeks to reverse a
judgment for ten thousand dollars as penalties for alleged violations of a state law referred to as the Anti-Trust Act of 1905.
The Hammond Company challenged the authority which the
act purported to exert anid the forms of procedure which the
statute authorized and which were employed to enforce its requirements, because of their alleged repugnancy to the Constitution of the United -States, in particulars which were enumerated. The Supreme Court of Arkansas held that the acts which
the Hammond Company was charged with having committed
were within the prohibitions of the law of 1905, and that the
statute was in no respect repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. These conclusions were sustained by considering prior cognate legislation, and a construction given thereto,
as well as by an analysis of the act of 1905, elucidated by a prior
decision made concerning the same. Before recurring particularly to the procedure and judgment in this case we advert

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to these subjects, as they are essential to a comprehension of the
matters here arising for'decision.
The constitution of Arkansas of 1874 (§ 11, art.
12) authorized foreign corporations to do business in the State, subject to
the same regulations and with the same rights as those enjoyed
by domestic corporations. Carrying these provisions into effect,
the legislature' (Kirby's Digest Laws, Ark., §§ 824 to 827) authorized permits to be issued to foreign corporations, subjecting
them to.like control and entitling them to the same privileges
as domestic corporations on payment of the same fees as were
exacted from a domestic corporation and on compliance with
other statutory requirements. In § 6, art. 12, of the same constitution there was contained a reservation of the power of the
legislature to repeal, alter or amend charters of incorporation,
subject, however, to the limitation that thereby "no injustice
shall be done to the corporators."
The Hammond Company obtained a permit and engaged in
business within the State of Arkansas.
In 1899 what was known as the Rector Act was enacted for
the punishment of pools, trusts and conspiracies to control
prices, etc. Under this law an action was commenced to recover penalties against the Lancashire Fire Insurance Company, a foreign 'corporation. 'doing business under a permit.
The case was in 1899 decided by the Supreme Court of Arkansas against the State. 66 Arkansas, 466. The court held that
"it [the statute] did not intend to prohibit or .punish acts done
or agreements made in foreign countries by corporations doing
business here, when such acts or -agreements have reference
only to persons or property or prices in such foreign countries."
In January, 1905, the Rector Act was repealed and the statute
now in question was enacted. The first section of the new law,
which is in the margin, i reenacted the, first section of the old
act, with certain additions, which are in italics. Various secSEc. 1. Any corporation organized under the laws of this or any
other State, or country, and transacting or conducting any kind of business in this State, or any partnership or individual, or other association

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

tions were added in the new law, of which only §§ 8 and 9 are
particularly relevant to this controversy. As we shall hereafter
have occasion to specially consider these sections, they are presently put out of view.
The Hartford Fire Insurance Company-a Connecticut corporation-was proceeded against for alleged violations of the
act of 1905. The-company defended on the ground that it was
not a member of or a party to any pool, etc., made in Arkansas,
and that it was not a member of any pool, etc., which in any
manner affected the premium for insuring property within that
State.
In disposing of the case the Supreme Court of Arkansas (76
Arkansas, 303) considered two questions: First, the proper construction of the act; and second, its constitutionality as construed. The first question was thus stated:
"1. Does the act prohibit, under the penalty named therein,
a foreign insurance corporation from doing business in Arkanor persons whatsoever, who are now, or shall hereafter create, enter into,
become a member of, or a party to, any pool, trust, agreement, combination, confederation or understanding, whether the same is made in
this State or elsewhere, with any other corporation, partnership, individual, or any other person or association of persons, to regulate or fix
either in this State or elsewhere the price of any article of manufacture,
mechanism, merchandise, commodity, convenience, repair, any product
of mining, or any article or thing whatsoever, or the price or premium to
be paid for insuring property against loss or damage by fire, lightning or
tornado, or to maintain said price when so regulated or fixed, or who are
now, or shall hereafter enter into, become a member of, or a party to any
pool, agreement, contract, combination, association or confederation,
whether made in this State or elsewhere, to fix or limit in this State or
elsewhere, the amount or quantity of any article of manufacture, mechanism, merchatndise, commodity, convenience, repair, any product of mining,- or any article or thing whatsoever, or the price or premium to be
paid for insuring property against loss or damage by fire, lightning,
storm, cyclone, tornado or any other kind of policy issued by any corporation, partnership, individual or association of persons aforesaid,
shall be deemed and adjudged guilty of a conspiracy to defraud and be
subject to the penalties as.provided by this act.

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sas while such cotporation is a member of a pool, trust or combination to fix insurance rates anywhere, although such pool,
trust or combination is not created or maintained in Arkansas,
and does not affect or fix, or attempt to do so, rates of insurance
in Arkansa . To state the proposition by illustration: Assume
that the appellant is a member of a trust-called a rating bureau-created and maintained in New York city, to fix and
maintain insurance rates in New York city and St. Petersburg,
but which does not fix or affect rates in Arkansas, is it guilty of
a violation of the act if it transacts an insurance business in
Arkansas upon complying with all the statutes of the State,
except the one at bar?"
In solving this question the court deemed that the correct
meaning of the statute was to be ascertained by its text as illustrated by the history of the times indicating the motives which
led to the adoption of the act. On this subject it was pointed
out that after the decision in the Lancashire case public agitation concerning the effect of that decision had arisen and had
occasioned an introduction in the legislature at different times
of a proposed bill, known as the King bill, intended to counteract the effect of the decision in the Lancashire case, but which
bill had failed of passage. The court said:
"In 1904 the dominant political party in this State, through
its party platform, demanded of the next general assembly the
passage of the King bill, and of the purpose of said bill said:
.'Whereby all foreign corporations shall be prevented from doing business in this State, if they are members of any trust,
pool, combination, or conspiracy against trade, whether such
trust, pool, combination, or conspiracy affects or is intended to
affect prices or rates in Arkansas or not.' The general assembly
elected in 1904, composed almost entirely of members of the
political party whose platform is quotdd, with remarkable unanimity and rapidity passed the King bill, which had been rejected by the two preceding general assemblies, and in less
than a fortnight of its organization it was approved, and it is
the statute now at bar."

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

It was decided (Wood and Battle, JJ., dissenting) "that the
general assembly intended by this act to subject to the penalty
of it any foreign corporation doing business in this State while
a member of a trust formed to fix prices anywhere."
The act as thus interpreted was sustained upon the theory
that "the State has dictated these terms upon which foreign
insurance companies can do business in this State," and the
State" possesses the right to declare that foreign insurance
corporations cannot do business in this State while belonging
to a pool, trust, combination, conspiracy, or confederation. to
fix or affect insurance rates anywhere."
Shortly after the decision in the Hartford case this action was
commenced by the State against the Hammond Company for a
forfeiture of its permit to do business in Arkansas and for
money penalties. As finally amended the complaint consisted
of four paragraphs or counts. As, however, during the progress
of the cause counsel stipulated that if any relief was awarded
against the Hammond Company it should be confined to the
matters charged in the first paragraph of the complaint and be
limited to a money recovery not exceeding ten thousand dollars,
and effect was given to the stipulation in the final action of the
court, we put all but the first paragraph out of view.
In the first paragraph the existence of the Hammond Company and its carrying on the business of dealing in live stock
and the products thereof in Arkansas at a date named was
averred. It was then charged that on the date mentioned, and
other stated days, the company, in violation of the act of 1905,
was a member or party to a pool or trust, agreement, combination or understanding with corporations and persons, named
and unnamed, who were engaged in the same line of business
to regulate the prices of slaughtered live stock and to maintain
such prices as so regulated and fixed. The paragraph coneluded with the prayer for "judgment that the right and privilege of'said defendant to do business in this-State be declared
forfeited, and that plaintiff have and-recover of said defendant
the sum of.thirty thousand dollars, and all her costs in this suit

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

expended, together with all the expenses of the attorney general in prosecuting same, as provided in said act, and for all
other and proper relief."
On the ground that the complaint was so vague that it was
impossible to answer the same, the Hammond Company moved
that the State be directed to make the complaint more specific,
so as to show when the alleged pool or trust was created, in
what respect it constituted a violation of the statute, and where,
in the vast area in which it was alleged the business of the company was carried on, the asserted unlawful agreement was to
operate. The motion was denied.
The complaint was demurred to on the ground that it did not
allege the formation of any pool or trust in Arkansas or that it
was to affect prices within that State, and therefore if the facts
charged were within the prohibition of the statute the act was
wanting in due process of law and was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, because it was an attempt by the State to
exercise authority beyond its jurisdiction. On the overruling
of the demurrer the first paragraph was answered by a general
and specific denial of each and every allegation thereof. Moreover, it was specially asserted that the permit was a contract on
the faith of which large sums of money had been expended in
purchasing property and in making permanent improvements
thereon within the State which would be destroyed by a revocation of the permit, and that the business'of the company was
largely interstate commerce. Various defenses under the Constitution of the United States were specifically advanced, as
follows: First, that to revoke the permit for the causes alleged
would impair the obligations of the contract which had resulted
from the issue of the permit; and, second, that to grant the
relief prayed would violate the equal protection, due process,
ex post facto and interstate commerce-clauses of the Constitution of the United States.
A request of the Hammond Company that all depositions to
be taken outside of the jurisdiction of the court be upon
written interrogatories was denied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

The Attorney General, availing himself of §8 of the act, which
is in the margin,1 moved for the appointment of a commisSEc. 8. Whenever any proceeding shall be commenced in any court
of, competent jurisdiction in this State by the attorney general or prosecuting attorney against any corporation or corporations, individual
or individuals, or association of individuals, or joint stock association
or copartnership under the law against the formation and maintenance
of pools, trusts of any kind, monopolies or confederations, combinations
or organizations in restraint of trade, to dissolve the same or to restrain
their formation or maintenance in this State, or to recover the penalties
in this act provided, then and in such case, if the attorney general or
prosecuting attorney desires to take the testimony of any officer, director, agent, or employ6 of any corporation, or joint stock association
proceeded against, or in case of a copartnership, any of the members of
said partnership, or any employ6 thereof, in any court in which said
action may be pending; and the individual or individuals whose testimony is desired are without the jurisdiction of this State, or reside
without the State of Arkansas, then in such case, the attorney general
or prosecuting attorney may file .in said court in term time, or with the
judge thereof in vacation, a statement, in Writing, setting forth the
name or names of the persons or individuals whose testimony he desires
to take, and the time when and the place where he desires Faid persons
to appear; and thereupon the court or judge thereof shall make an order for the taking of said testimony of such person or persons and for
the production of any books, papers and documents in his possession or
under his control relating to the merits of any suit, or to any evidence
therein, shall appoint a commission for that purpose, who shall be
an officer authorized by law to take depositions in this State, and said
commission shall issue immediately a notice, in writing, directed to the
attorney or attorneys of record in said -cause, or agent, or officer, or
other employ6, that the testimony of the person named in the application of the attorney general or the prosecuting attorney is desired, and
requesting said attorney or attorneys of record, or said officer, agent or
employ6 to whom said notice is delivered, and upon whom the same is
served, to ha.ve said officer, agent, employ6, representative of said copartnership, or agent thereof, whose evidence it is desired to take, together with such books, papers and documents, at the place named in
the application of the attorney general, or the prosecuting attorney, and
at the time fixed in said application, then and there to testify: Provided,
however, That such application shall always allow in fixing said time
the same number of days' travel to reach the designated place in Ar-

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

sioner to take testimony in the city of Chicago and for the produition and examination before him of books and papers.
The motion stated, first, that sixteen named persons resided
in or near Chicago, and were either officers, agents, directors
or employ~s of the Hammond Company; that it was the desire of the State to take their testimony on a day named, that
all of:said witnesses were hostile and would not make.fair
answers to written interrogatories, that the facts as to the
business methods of the corporation "relevant to the issue in
this case and within the knowledge of the said persons aforementioned are such that your relator can have no accurate
knowledge of same until opportunity is given him to interrogate the aforesaid persons, -who have peculiar and sole knowledge thereof; and that it is impossible for your relator to so
frame written interrogatories to said persons as to elicit the
facts within their knowledge relevant to the issues in this
case." As to the production of books and papers, it wa's stated
that "said persons have in their possession and under their
control, and at the Chicago office of the defendant company,
nunerous books, papers and documents bearing upon the issues in this cause and relevant to the claim of the plaintiff
herein; that the precise description and nature of these is peculiarly within the knowledge of the aforesaid persons; and
that it is impossible for your relator to so frame written interrogatories and demands as to require the production of such
books, papers and documents as aforesaid as are relevant to
the issues in this cause." In response to this motion the Hammond Company asked that the State be required to "set out
specifically what she expects to prove by each witness she desires produced, and also to set out specifically a particular
kansas that would now be allowed by law in case of taking depositions:
Provided, also, In addition to the above-named time, six days shall be
allowed for the attorney or attorneys of record, or the -agent, officer or
employ6 on whom notice is served to notify the person or persons whose
testimony is to be taken. Service of said notice as returned in writing
may be made by any one authorized by law to serve a subpcena.

VOL. ccxni-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

description of any books she desires produced by any of said
witnesses, together with the name of the witness who is to
produce them, and that she be required to specifically state
wherein any of said books so named are material to the issues
in the case." The Attorney General thereupon filed an affidavit, reciting that he was "at this time unable to designate
and particularly point out the books, papers and documents
which will be required in evidence on the execution of the
commission

.

.

. that the contents and particular de-

scription of said books, papers and documents are matters peculiarly within the knowledge of the defendant, and the witnesses whose examination is prayed at said time and place,
and that it is impossible and impracticable for me at this time
to designate particularly the matters as to which each witness
whose testimony is sought to be taken

.

can testify,

or to frame interrogatories to such witnesses or state at this
time the substance of his evidence, for the ieason that the
matters as to which it is sought to examine said witnesses are
matters touching the conduct and business of the defendant
company and as to which the defendant and said witnesses
have peculiar and sole knowledge." The motion to make the
request more specific was overruled and an order was entered
authorizing the designated commissioner to take the testimony
of the witnesses named and to have produced before him by
the Hammond Company "any books, papers and documents
in the possession or under the control of either of said persons
relating to the merits of said cause or to any defense therein,"
accompanied with the proviso "that at such examination the
witnesses and books aforesaid shall not be required to be produced at any one time in such numbers as to interfere with
the operation of the defendant's business." The order contained specific directions commanding the Hammond Company,
through its officers or agents or attorney, to have the witnesses
.named*present for examination and to produce the books referred to in the order. To the entry of this order exception
was duly reserved.

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The commissioner notified the Hammond Company to produce the witnesses named and the books and papers referred
to at his office in Chicago on a designated day. The Hammond
Company, through its attorneys; declined to comply and
stated, in writing, that it could not concede the power of the
court to make the order which it had made, and that "on the
contrary it was of the opinion that the request calls upon it
[the Hammond Company] to surrender rights in which it is
protected by the Constitution of the United States and of the
State of Arkansas that are too valuable to be surrendered."
Return, stating the refusal to produce, having been made to
the court, the Attorney General, under § 9 of the act of 1905,
which is in the "margin,' moved to strike out all "answers, de1 SEC. 9. Whenever the persons mentioned in the preceding sections
shall be notified, as above provided, to request any officer, agent, director or employ6 to attend before any court, or before any person authorized to take the testimony in said proceedings, and the person or
persons whose testimony is requested, as above provided, shall fail to
appear and testify and produce any books, papers and documents, they
may be ordered to produce by the court, or the other officer authorized
to take such evidence, then it will be the duty of the court, upon motion
of the attorney general or prosecuting attorney, to strike out the answer,
motion, reply, demurrer or other pleading then or thereafter filed in said
action or proceeding by the said corporation, joint stock association or
copartnership, whose officer, agent, director'or employ6 has neglected
or failed to attend and testify and produce all books, papers and documents he or they shall have been ordered to'produce in said action by
the court or person authorized to take said testimony, and said court
shall proceed to render judgmdnt by default against said corporation,
joint stock association or copartnership. And it is further provided, That
in case any officer, agent, employ6, director or representative of any
corporation, joint stock association or copartnership in such proceeding,
as hereinbefore mentioned, who shall reside or be found within this
State, shall be subpcbnaed to appear and testify or to produce books,
papers and documents, and shall fail, neglect or refuse to do so, then the
answer, motion, demurrer or other pleading then and thereafter filed
by said corporation, joint stock association or copartnership in any
such proceeding, shall, on motion of the attorney general or prosecuting
.attorney, be stricken out and judgment in said cause rendered against
said corporation, joint stock association or copartnership.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the. Court.

212 U. S.

murrers, motions, replies or other pleadings filed by the defendant in this cause and render in favor of the State of Arkansas a default judgment in this case for ten thousand dollars,
as penalties for the violations of the'act of the general assembly
of the State of Arkansas, approved January 23, 1905, on the
days and dates set forth in the complaint herein, and for all
costs in this cause incurred." The Hammond Company, in
response to the motion, set up the defense that to deny it the
'right to defend would be a condemnation without a hearing
and a consequent denial of due process of law in conflict with
the Fourteenth Amendment. The motion of the Attorney
General was granted, and a judgment for penalties amounting
to ten thousand doljars was, as before stated, entered, which
on appeal was affirmed by the Supreme COurt. 81 Arkansas,
519.
On the general question of the meaning of the act of 1905 the
court adhered to the interpretation given the act in Hartford
Insurance Co. v. State, 'supra, and also to the ruling in that case
made concerning its validity, both as regards the constitution
of the State and that of the United States. After holding that
the proceeding was not criminal but was "purely a statutory
action to recover the penalties of the statute for doing business
in the State contrary to its terms," the court came to consider
the objections urged to the validity of §§ 8 and 9. Passing on
the contention that the order made under § 8 for the production of books, papers and witnesses was so unlimited as to be
repugnant to the state and Federal constitutions, the subject
was considered from a twofold aspect, first, the order for the
production of the books and papers; and, second, that for the
production of witnesses. As to the first, while conceding for
the sake of argument that it might be that an order on a corporation, whether domestic or foreign, for the production of
books and papers could be framed in so unlimited a manner Ps
to amount to a violation of a provision against unreasonable
searches and seizures found in the state constitution, it was
held that that question was irrelevant and not necessary to be

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decided. This conclusion was reached because it was declared
that, as the order called also for the production of witnesses,
if there was a failure to comply with that portion of the order
the judgment below was properly rendered. Considering the
validity of the order for the production of the witnesses and
the contention that it was so arbitrary and unreasonable as to
amount to a denial of due process of law, because it called upon
the corporation to produce a number of witnesses, simply
upon the averment that they had some contract or fiduciary
relation with the company, without at all considering its
power to produce them or affording to the corporati6n any
compulsory process for requiring the witnesses to attend if
they were unwilling to do so, the court, speaking of the, statute,
said:
"If these provisions mean that the corporation must be a
policeman, and bring into court on demand its president, bookkeeper or doorkeeper vi et armis, certainly it would be an unreasonable imposition. An-analysis of the provisions, however,
will not justify such construction. These sections evidently
mean this and nothing more: that 'the corporation shall on demand request any given officer, agent or employ6 to be present
at the time named for examination as a witness (and in case of
production of books and papers that the given officer or agent
produce the given papers), and on a failure to comply with
these requirements that it be defaulted. Of course this necessarily contemplates an' honest effort to produce the testimony
called for. When that is made, then the statute is complied
with; when it is not, as in this case, where the defendant corporation refused to obey any part of the order, then the statute
is not complied with, and that brings up the gravest question
of the case."
In holding that the provisions of § 9, authorizing the striking out of the pleadings of the defendant and rendering judgment against him, as by default, were valid, the court held that
the conferring of such a power by the statute, and its exercise
as manifested in the case before it, was not repugnant to either

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

the constitution of the State or that of the United States.

In

reaching this conclusion the court, in substance, held that the
ruling of this court inHovey v. Ellhott, 167 U. S.416, must be
limited to a case where a court, in virtue alone of its asserted
inherent power to punish for contempt, strikes an answer from
the files and renders judgment as by default, and therefore
did not embrace a case where such authority was exercised by
a court in consequence of an express delegation by law of the
power so to do. This limitation on the ruling in Hovey v.
Elliott was deemed to be justified by a reference to and an
analysis of the statutory law of the United States, which the
court deemed conferred such power upon the courts of the
United States, as well as many state statutes, including those
of Arkansas and various state decisions, all of which it was
deemed established the existence of the legislative power to
authorize a court to punish a defendant by striking his answer
from the files, and, over his objection, rendering a judgment
against him.
Condensing, though not changing, the substance of the assignments of error, in the light flowing from the review which
we have made, we come to dispose of such assignments, not,
however, following the precise order in which they are stated
in the brief of -ounsel.
1st. Section 1 of the law of 1905 legislates concerning acta done
beyond the limits of the State, and therefore takes property without due process of law, and deprives of the equal protection of the
lawe, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
But the premise upon which the proposition is based is
imaginary, since it assumes that the statute does that which
it has been conclusively determined by the court below it does
not do. The interpretation which the court below gave to the
statute was that it did not purport to forbid or affix penalties
to acts done beyond the State, but that if simply forbade a
corporation from continuing to do business within the State
after it had done, either within or outside of the State, the
enumerated acts.. If the premise of the asserted proposition

HAMMOND PACKING'CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be that eien although the statute addressed itself exclusively
to the doing of business within the State under the circumstances stated, it nevertheless exerted an extraterritorial power,
because it restrained the continuance of the business within
the State by a corporation which had done the designated acts
outside of the State, we think the proposition without merit.
As the State possessed the plenary power to exclude a foreign
corporation from doing business within its borders, it follows
that if the State exerted such unquestioned power from a consideration of acts done in another jurisdiction, the motive for
the exertion of the lawful power did not operate to destroy the
right to call the power into play; This being true, it follows
that, as the power of the State to prevent a foreign corporation
from continuing to do business is but the correlative of its authority to prevent such corporation from coming into the State,
unless by the act of admission some contract right in favor of
the corporation arose, which we shall hereafter consider, it follows that the prohibition against continuing to do business in
the State because of acts done beyond the State was none the
less a valid exertion of power as to a subject within the jurisdiction of the State.
In both the refusal to permit the coming into the State and
the exclusion therefrom of a corporation previously admitted under the circumstances stated, while it may be said that the acts
done out of the State and their anticipated reflex result may
have been the originating cause for the exertion of the lawful
authority to refuse. permission to come into the State,.or to revoke such permission previously given, that fact is immaterial
in a judicial inquiry as to the right either to refuse to give or to
.revoke a permit to do business within 'the State, since the power,
and not the motive, is the test to be resorted to for the purpose
of determining the constitutionality of ,the legislative action.
Although it be conceded that the provisions of the statute
cannot consistently with constitutional limitations be applied
to individuals, such concession would not cause the act to
amount to a denial of the equal protection of the laws. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

difference between the extent of the power which the State
may exert over the doing of business within the State by an individual and that which it can exercise as to corporations furnishes a distinction authorizing a classification between the
two. It is apparent that the court below, both in the Hartford
case and in this, by a construction which is here binding, treated
the statute, in so far as its prohibitions were addressed to individuals, as separable from its requirements as to corporations,
'and, therefore, even though there was a want of constitutional
power to include individuals within the prohibitions of the act,
that fact does not affect the validity of the law as to corporations.
2d. The act as construed by the court below is repugnant to § 10
of Art. I of the Constitution of the United States, since the necessary effect of that construction is to impair the obligation of the contract which was created in virtue of the constitution and laws of
Arkansas by the permit which was issued.
By the constitution and laws of the State of Arkansas it is
said foreign corporations, when lawfully admitted to do business in the State, were entitled to rights equal to those enjoyed
by domestic corporations. Possessing this right of equality, it
is argued that a permit to do business could not be revoked for
causes not made applicable to domestic corporations without
impairing the obligations of the contract which ar6se from the
,permit. American Smelting Company v. Colorado, 204 U. S.
103. With this proposition in hand-which is not denied by
the State-the argument insists that as the statute does not forbid a domestic corporation from continuing to do business under a charter granted by the State, because ithas done the acts
specified in fhe statute, therefore a discrimination results in
favor of domestic corporations.. But, again, the contention
rests upon an erroneous assumption as to the operation of the
statute. We say this because on the face of the statute its pro-'.
hibitions are made applicable to domestic and foreign corporations. The insistence that the result of the decision in this case,
as well as of that made in the Hartlord case, is to give the stat-

HAMMOND. PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U..S.

345

Opinion of the Court.

ute a.controlling construction, operating to exempt domestic
corporations from its provisions, is unfounded. True, that
both in. the Hartford case, as in this, the court below, in testing
the question of power considered solely the scope of the legislative authority over foreign corporations. But in so .doing
the court. simply. confined itself to-the question before it, as in
both cases the defendants were foreign corporations doing business under permit. Nothing in the general reasoning advanced
-by the court as to the power of the State over foreign corporations begets the thought that it was intended to decide that the
.express words of the statute concerning domestic corporations
were meaningless or beyond the authority of the State to enact.
While it is true that -the reference made in the opinion in the
Hartford case to the platform of the dominant political party
which it was assumed shed light upon the true meaning of the
act indicates that the impelling motive in adopting the act of
1905 was to reach foreign corporations, this doe not justify
-the inference that the act was not intended to govern domestic corporations doing like acts, but, on the contrary, tends to
establish the existence in the legislative mind of the purpose
not to discriminate in- favor of domestic corporations, since the
latter were expressly embraced in the statute.
The contention that to apply the law to domestic corporations
would as to such corporations cause it to be repugnant to the
contract clause of the Constitution, is without merit. The chartered right to do a particular business did not operate to deprive the State of its lawful police authority, and therefore the
franchise to do the business was inherently qualified by the
duty to execute. the charter powers conformably to such reasonable police regulations as might thereafter be adopted in
the interest of the public welfare. Besides, it is not disputed.
that the State under its constitutin had a reserve power to
repeal, alter and amend charters by it granted, and therefore,
even if the impossible assumption was indulged that the grant
of the power to do business implied in the absence of such reservation the right to carry on the business in violation of a lawfully

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

regulating statute, the existence of the reserve power leaves no
semblance of ground for the proposition. The claim of an irrepealable contract cannot be predicated upon a contract which is
repealable. Citizens' Savings Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636,
644. And no support for the contrary view arises, because the
constitution of Arkansas exacted that the authority to repeal,
alter and amend should be exercised "in such manner, however,
that no injustice be done to the corporators." The determina'tion Whether the power to repeal, alter or amend was exerted in
such a manner as to be unjust to incorporators was within the
province of the state court to finally decide, unless that power
was exerted in such an arbitrary manner as, irrespective of the
contract clause, to deprive of some other and- fundamental
right which was within the protection of the Constitution of the
United States.
3d. The action of the trial court in making the order to produce,
and on failure to comply therewith, striking the pleadings of the
Hammond Company from the files and rendering a judgment as
by default, was void, because repugnant to the equal protection and
due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
As the conduct of the trial court on the subjects with which
this proposition is concerned conformed to the authority conferred by §§ 8 and 9 of the statute, it follows that the proposition is that those sections are repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment. The grounds, which are made the basis of this
proposition are numerous and are stated in various forms not
separated one from the other. We shall disentangle them and
treat them separately, and thus consider and dispose of them all.
It is said, conceding that the power which § 8 confers could
be exerted under just limitations, yet the order made, which
was authorized by the statute, was so unlimited, so arbitrary
and unjust as to cause it to be wanting in due process. This
rests upon the assumption that the order to produce the books
and papers of the company and the witnesses, was imperative,
and did not consider the ability of the company to comply, furnished no compulsory process to compel obedience in case a

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212.U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

named witness refused to appear at the request of the company,
and therefore left the company helpless and subject to pains
and penalties for a failure to do that which it may not have
been in its power to do. But again the proposition rests upon
the assumption that the statute and the order which conformed
to it did that which the court below decided it did not do.
Conceding, for the sake of the argument, that the broad provisions of § 8 and the general language of the order to produce,
might on their face be amenable to the criticism which the
proposition involves, the statement we have previously made
demonstrates thatthe court below, by a construction which is
binding here, expressly decided that neither the statute nor the
order were subject to the interpretation which the argument
attributes to them. Indeed, the court impliedly conceded that
if the statute and the order meant that which the argument
contends they did mean; both the statute t i,the order would
have been void. But in intimating to that effect it was expressly held that all the statute required was a bona fide effort
to comply with an order made pursuant to its provisions, and
therefore any reasonable showing of an inability. to comply
would have satisfied the requirements both of the statute and
the order. As the Hammond Company absolutely declined to
obey the order and stood upon what it deemed to be its lawful
rights and privileges, even if that course of conduct was taken
because of a contrary conception as to the meaning of the statute, it is not within our province to afford relief because of an
error of judgment in this respect, That is to say, we may not
hold that the statute and order were arbitrary and unjust in
the particulars asserted when it is conclusively determined that
they do not have that effect.
It is insisted that the order to produce was so general and indefinite as to amount to an unreasonable search and seizure,
and consequently was 'wanting in due process of law. But conceding, for the sake of argument only and not so deciding that
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment emb aces
in its generic terms a prohibition against unreasonable searches

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

and seizures, a question hitherto reserved, under circumstances
analogous to those here present, in Consolidated Rendering Co.
v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541, we think the ruling made in that case
establishes the unsoundness of the contention. We say this
because it was in that case determined in view of the visitorial
powers of a State over corporations doing business within its
borders and the right of the State to know whether the business
of a corporation was being carried on in a lawful manner, that
it was competent for the State to compel the production of the
books and papers of the corporation in gn investigation to ascertain whether the laws of the"State had been complied with.
And of course such power embraces the authority to require
the giving of testimony by the officers, agents and other employ~s of the corporation for like and analogous purposes. It is
true that. the books and papers to which the order made in the
cited case related were those of a foreign corporation doing business in Vermont, and which had been kept in the State, but
had been taken therefrom. But we see no reason to hold that
this case Is not controlled by the principle 'applied in the Consolidated Rendering Co. case, because the books of the Hammond
Company, which were called for, may not have been at any
time kept within the State of Arkansas.
Nor do we think there is merit in the contention that the
order to produce was wanting in due process because it was
made in a pending suit and sought to elicit proof not only as to
the liability of the company, but also the proof in the possession
of the company relevant to its defense to the claim which the
State asserted. As these subjects were within the scope of the
visitorial power of the State and concerning which it had the
right to be fully informed, the mere incident or purpose for
which the lawful power was exerted affords no ground to deny
its existence. In Consolidated Rendering Company v. Vermont,
the books and papers were required for an investigation before a
grand jury concerning supposed misconduct of the corporation.
The power to'compel the production to ascertain whether
wrong had been done, in the nature of things, as the greater in-

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cludes the less, is decisive as to the right to exact the production
for the purpose of proof in a pending-cause. See Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43. If, as was in that case decided, the power of
visitation could be exercised, even although it might lead to
the production of incriminating evidence merely because the
order to produce in this case called for evidence in the possession of the corporation relevant to its defense did not affect the
validity of the order.
The contention that because § 8 applies only to books and
papers outside of the State, therefore it denies.the equal protection of the laws is'not open, since it has been conclusively settled that, without denying the equal protection of the laws,
relations may be based upon the fact .that persons or property
dealt with are not within the territorial jurisdiction of the regulating authority. -Central Loan & Trust Co. v. Campbell, 173
U. S.84, .Even:af, asontended, the remedy given by the act
for the pr6dicdi'cti of books and papers and the examination
of witnesses is confined to corporations and joint stock associations, and does not extend to individuals, that fact also furnishes no ground for the proposition that a denial of the equal
protection of the laws thereby resulted. The wider scope of the
power which the State possesses over corporations and joint
stock associations in and of itself affords a ground for the classification adopted.
Lastly, with much earnestness and elaboration, it is urged
that the action of the court, authorized by § 9, in striking the
answer from the files and rendering a judgment as by default,
is conclusively demonstrated to have been a denial of due process of law by the ruling in Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S.409, and
the previous cases in this court which were there cited and applied. The ruling in Hovey v. Elliott was that to punish for contempt by striking an answer from the files jand condemning, as
by default, was a denial of due process of law, and therefore repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. There the power to
strike out and punish was exerted, by the court, in virtue of
what it assumed to be its inherent authority, and the occasion

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

which caused the exercise of the assumed authority was the refusal of the defendant to comply with an order to pay into the
registry of the court a sum of money which, it was held, had
been illegally withdrawn, and the right to which was at issue in
the suit. Merely because the power to strike out an answer
and enter a default, which was. exerted by the court below in
this case, was authorized by the ninth section of the statute furnishes no ground for taking this case out of the ruling in Hovey
v. Elliott, if otherwise controlling. The fundamental guarantee
of due process is absolute and not merely relative. The inherent want of power in a court to do what was done in Hovey v.
Elliott was in that case deduced from no especial infirmity of
*the judicial power to reach the result, but upon the broad.conception that such power could not be called into play by any
department of the Government without transgressing the constitutional safeguard as to due process, at all times'dominant
and controlling where the Constitution is applicable. Indeed
in Hovey v. Elliott the impotency, of the legislative department
to endow the judicial with the capacity to disregard the .Constitution was emphasized' But while this is true the question yet
remairs, Is the doctrine of. Hovey v. Elliott here applicable?
To determine this question we must take into view the authority below, exerted not from a merely formal point of view, but
in its most fundamental aspect. -That is to say, we must trace
the power to its true source, and if from doing so it results that
the authority exerted flows from a .reservoir of unquestioned
power it must follow that the action below was not unlawful,
albeit in some narrower aspect that action might be considered
as unlawful. The essential basis for the exercise of power and
not a mere incidental result arising from its exertion is the criterion by which its validity is to be measured. Hovey v. Elliott
involved a denial of-all right to defend as a mere punishment.
This case presents a failure by the defendant to produce what
we must assume was material, evidence in its possession and a
resulting striking out of an answer and a default. The pro-.
ceeding here taken may therefore find its sanction in the un-

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

doubted right of the lawmaking power to create a presumption
of fact as to the bad faith and untruth of an answer begotten
from the suppression or failure to produce the proof ordered,
when such proof concerned the rightful decision of the cause. In
a sense, of course, the striking out of the answer and default was
a punishment, but it was only remotely so, as the generating
source of the power was the right to create a presumption flowing from the failure to produce. The difference between mere
punishment, as illustrated in Hovey v. Elliott, and the power
exerted in this, is as follows: In the former due process of law
was denied by the refusal to hear. In this the preservation of
due process was secured by the presumption that the refusal to
produce evidence material to the administration of dike process
was but an admission of the want of merit in the asserted defense. The want of power in the one case and its existence in
the other are essential to due process, to preserve in the one
and to apply and enforce in the other. In its ultimate conception therefore the power exerted below was like the authority
to default or to take a bill for confessed because of a failure
to answer, based upon a presunption that the material facts
alleged or pleaded were admitted by not answering, and might
well also be illustrated by reference to many other presumptions attached by the law to the failure of a party to a cause to
specially set up or assert his supposed rights in the mode prescribed by law.
As pointed out by the court below, the law of the United
States as well as the laws of many of the States, afford examples
of striking out pleadings and adjudging by default for a failure
to produce material evidence, the production of which has
been lawfully called for. Rev. Stat. U. S. § 724, which was
drawn from § 15 of the judiciary act of 1789, after conferring
upon courts of law of the United States the authority to require parties to produce books and writings in their possession
or under their control which contain evidence pertinent to the
issue, in cases and under circumstances where they might be
compelled to produce the same by the ordinary rules of proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

ings in chancery, expressly empowers such courts, if a plaintiff
fails to comply with the order to render a judgment of non-suit,
and if a defendant fails to comply "the court may, on motion,
give judgment against him by default." From the time of this
enactment, practically coeval with the Constitution, although
controversies have arisen as to its interpretation, no contention,
so far as we can discover, has ever been raised questioning the
power given to render a judgment by default under the circumstances provided for in the statute. Its validity was taken for
granted by the court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Taney,
in Thompson v. Selden, 20 How: 194, and this was also assumed
by the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley, in Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616, where the effect of the constitutional guarantees embodied in the Fourth and Fifth Amendt is unnvcesments were elaborately and lucidly expounded.
sary to cite the many cases in the lower Federal courts which
manifest the same result, as they will be found collected in
Gould & Tucker's Notes on the Revised Statutes, under § 724,
and in the notes to the same section, contained in volume 3,
Federal Statutes An-notated.
And, beyond peradventure, the general course of legislation'
and judicial decision in the several States indicates that it has
always been assumed that the power existed to compel the giving of testimony or the production of books and papers by
proper regulations prescribed by the legislative authority, and
for a failure to give or -produce such evidence, the law might
authorize a presumption in a proper case against the party refusing, justifying the rendering of a judgment by default, as if
no answer had been filed. While it may be true that in some of
the state statutes passed on the subject, and in decisions applying them, some confusion may appear to exist, resulting from
confounding the extent of the authority to punish as for a contempt and the right to engender a presumption relative to proof
arising.from a failure to give or produce evidence, it is accurate
to say that when viewed comprehensively the statutes and decisions ,in effect recognize the. difference between the two, and

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. ARKANSAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

therefore may be substantially considered as but an exertion
by the States of a like power to that which was conferred upon
the courts of the United States by the original judiciary act
and by Revised Statutes, § 724.
Without referring in detail to the various statutes, which will
be found collected as of the year 1896, in vol. 6, Ency. Law and
Practice, note 3, pp. 812 et seq., we content ourselves with saying that the laws of Indiana, Iowa, Mississippi, Massachusetts,
Missouri, New Hampshire, Texas and Washington aptly portray the subject. As illustrative, we refer specially to the statute of Missouri, which directs that when a party refuses to produce evidence or fails to attend to testify on a proper order,
besides being punished as for a contempt, the court may strike
out the answer filed on behalf of the defendant, etc. This distinction is also marked in the Indiana and Washington statutes.
Although the statute of Mississippi, which authorizes, in the
event of a failure to obey a proper order as to the production
of evidence, the striking of an answer from the files and the
entry of judgment by default does not in terms refer the au-.
thority thus given to the legislative power to engender a presumption, the true source of the power was clearly pointed out
in the concurring opinion of Whitfield, J. (now Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of Mississippi), in Illinois Central R. Co.
v. Sanford, 75 Mississippi, 862, and the distinction was made
,manifest between the power to create a presumption of fact
and the want of authority as a mere punishment for contempt
to deny a hearing, as ruled in Hovey v. Elliott. And the difference between the two is also elucidated in the opinion of the
Supreme Court of the State of Washington in) Lawson v. Black
Diamond Mining Co., 44 Washington, 26, which interpreted
and enforced a statute of the State of Washington embraced
in § 6013 and immediately antecedent sections of Ballinger's
Annotated Code and Statutes.
As the power to strike an answer out and ehter a default,
conferred by § 9 of the act of 1905, which is before us, is clearly
referable to the undoubted right of the lawmaking authority
VOL. ccxII-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

to create a presumption in respect to the want of foundation
of an asserted, defense against a defendant who suppresses or
fails to produce evidence when legally called upon to give or
produce, our opinion is that the contention that the section
was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States is without foundation. In so deciding our conclusion is of course
based upon the legality and sufficiency of the order to produce,
made under § 8 of the act, and as our decision on that subject
rests upon the extent of the visitorial power which the State
had the right to exercise ever. a corporation subject to its control, our. ruling as to the legality of the call under § 8 is confined to the case before us.
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissent.

. THE FOLMINA.'
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 84.

Argued January' 21, 22, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

When goods whi'ch were received in good order on board a vessel under
a bill of lading agreeing to deliver them,.at termination of the voyage,
in like good order and condition are damaged on the voyage, the

burden is on the carrier to show that the damage was occasioned by
a peril for which he was not responsible. Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How.
272.

Merely proving that damage to cargo was by sea water does not establish that such damage was caused by peril of the sea within the exception of the bill of lading; in such a case conjecture cannot take
the place of proof. The 0. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450.
Where a certified question does not propound a distinct issue of law,
'Docket title, No. 84, Jahn v. Steamship Folmina, Van Eyken, Claim-

