CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE' UNITED -STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.

CITY OF KNOXVILLE v. KNOXVILLE WATER
-COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 17.

Argued April 28, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Rate making is a legislative function whether exercised by the legis-

lature or by a subordinate body to which power has been delegated,
such as a municipality.
While courts may-refuse to enforce legislation on constitutional grounds
the power should only be exercised in the clearest cases.
In ordinary equity suits findings of the master and the court below are
conclusive here.unless unsupported by the evidence or made under
erroneous views of law; but where the constitutionality of a legislative
act is involved, this court, from the respect due to legislative authority, will not regard such findings as conclusive.
In estimating -for rate-fixing purposes the value of a plant, cost of reproduction is riot a fair measure of -value unless a substantial allowance is made for depreciation. Quare, Whether anything can be
allowed in the case of the plant of a- public service corporation for
"going concern" above the value of the separate tangible elements.
In valuing for rate-fixing the plant of a public service corporationbonds
and stocks issued for its purchase and construction in excess of its cost
and by and to parties ipterested in and controlling the company,
afford neither measure nor guide.
VOL. CCXII-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

212 U. S.

In determining whether a rate.affords a fair return the amount must be
considered as fixed by the ordinance and not as voluntarily reduced
by the corporation, even. if such reduction be in accordance with
custom and for the purpose of obtaining prompt payment.'
In determining whether a rate is confiscatory the court is not confined
to evidence as to the income of the corporation affected for the fiscal
year during, or preceding that in, which the rate was fixed; it may receive evidence as to such income in subsequent years.
Federal courts should not declare an ordinance fixing rates for a public'
service corporation unconstitutional -and suspend its operation before
it goes into. effect unless the rate is clearly confiscatory;' and unless
complainant furnishes substantial evidence to that effect, the bill
should be dismissed without prejudice to a further application to the
courts if the rate aftqr going into effect-is actually confiscatory.
A sufficient amount should be allowed from the earnings of a .public
service corporation for making good depreciation of plant and replacing deteriorated portions thereof; but amounts so expended cannot be considered as additional to the original cost in valuing the
plant for purposes of ascertaining whether a rate is confiscatory'.
Qucre, and not decided, whether, under the circumstances of this case,
an ordinance fixing a rate yielding a return of' four per cent' after allowing two per cent for depreciation is confiscatory, and amounts to a
deprivation of property without due process of law or a taking of
property without compensation.
THEP facts, which involve the constitutional validity of an'
ordinance of the city of Knoxville fixing maximum rates to

be charged for water by the defendant water company, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Pickle, with whom Mr. J. Pike Powers, Junior,
Mr. W. R. Turner and Mr. W. T. Kennerly were on the brief,
for appellant:
The ordinance of March 30, 1901, was not unconstitutional;
it did not violate any valid contract between the city and the
company, or undertake to change the contract as to rates between the company and the city itself, but only to regulate the
rates charged by the water company to other water consumers
than the city. The city has power to regulate the water rates
by ordinance and that power has not been curtailed by contract.

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 107 Tennessee, 647; S. C.,
189 U. S. 434.
The ordinance of March 30, 1901, is not unconstitutional
and void :for the alleged reason that it was passed arbitrarily
without notice to the water company or without giving it a
hearing or an opportunity to be heard or.without an investigation of its business. This contention is not supported by
any proof. But if the facts averred were proved, that would
not, as a matter of law, invalidate the ordinance. This ques- '
.
'
cited.
tion is precluded by the decisions hereinbefore
The law under which the rates were fixed does not require
notice or investigation, nor does it declare the action of the
city council final. Unless the action of the city council had been
made final and conclusive upon the water company, or the law
had required notice and investigation and hearing, the ordinance fixing the rates remains open for inquiry of the character
that is made in this case, and if the court finds that the rates
are reasonable, -r that there is any doubt of it, the same will
be sustained. San. Diego &c. Co. v. Jasper,. 189 U. S. 439;
San Diego L. & T. Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee has held that the rates
fixed by this ordinance are not made final and conclusive but
remain open to judicial investigation. Knoxville v. Water Co.,
107 Tennessee, 688.
The rates prescribed by the. city's ordinance of March:30,
1901, are not confiscatory. The Circuit Court should have
determined this question for itself.
It is not within the general province of a master to pass upon
all the issues in an equity case, nor is it competent for the court
to refer the entire decision of a-case to him without the consent of the. parties. It cannot of its own motion or upon the
request of one party abdicate its duty to determine by its own
judgment the controversy presented and devolve that duty
upon any of its officers. Kimberly v. Arms, 129 U. S. 512;
Patton v. Cone, 1 Lea, 19; Carey v. Williams, 1 Lea, 54; Jones
v. Douglass, 1 Tenn. Chy. 357; Remsen v. Remsen, 2 Johnson's

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellee.

212 U. S.

Chy. Rep. 501;'2 Daniel's Chy. Prac. 1004, note 7; 1221, note 2
(4th ed.).
This court has, by its decisions, carefully guarded and limited the exercise of the jurisdiction of the courts affecting legislation, and ha' thus far permitted only the most sparing use
of the power to revise or annul rates when fixed by legislative
action. Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362;
Covington &c. Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, and Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, discussed as clearly distinguishable from
case at bar.
The cases are numerous in which relief, in cases of the character of the case at bar, has been denied by this court and by
other courts. San Diego Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739;
RailroadCo. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 399; Stanislas County v. San
Joaquin'Co., 192 U. S.201; Doui v. Beidleman,. 125 U. S.680;
Railroad Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S.649; San Diego L. & T. Co. v.
Jasper, 189 U. S.439; Railroad Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S.
.257; Railroad Co. v. State, 25 Florida, 310; S. C., 3 L. R. A.
661.
So this court has refused to sustain the action of inferior
courts restraining rates as unreasonable and confiscatory
where the investigation reaching that result has been made
in the lower courts along improper lines. Railroad Company
v. -Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167;- Railroad Ca. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S.197; Cotting v. Stock Yards, 183
U. S.79, 90.
Mr. J. W. Caldwell and Mr. R. E. L. Mountcastle,, with
whom Mr. Charles T. Cates, Junior,and Mr. S. G.. Shields were
on the brief, for appellee:
The rule of law applicable to this case is that the company
is entitled to demand, in order that it may have just compensation, a fair return upon the reasonable value of the property
at the time it is being used for the public. San Diego Land &
Town Co. v. National City, 174 U. S.739, 757. See also Covington & Lexington Turnpike C6. v. Sandford, 164 U. S.578,

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U. S.

5

Argument for Appellee.

597, 598; San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper,189 U. S.442;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Board of Commissioners, 78 Fed. Rep.
261; Cotting v. Stock Yards, 79 Fed. Rep. 679, 684; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 547.
With respect to the date at which the fair value of the property of complainant devoted to the public service should be
ascertained as a condition precedent to the ascertainment of
what is a fair return thereon, it may be stated that no controversy has arisen in this case, so that said date was approximately March 30, 1901, the date of the passage of the ordinance attacked, though, as a matter of fact, the ieal date
adopted was March 31, 1901, for the reason that March 31 was
the close of the fiscal year of the company, and both valuation
and income could more readily be arrived at by assuming that
as the date of the inquiry. No assignment of error is made in
this court controverting the proposition that the fair value of
the property of complainant should be ascertained at the date
when it was in fact ascertained in this case. Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466.
Each cdse must depend upon its special facts. Turnpike
Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S.- 578. As to the elements to be considered in the ascertainment of the fair value of the plant devoted to the public service, the amount expended in.permanent improvements, the amount and market value of its bonds
and stock, the present as compared with the original cost of
construction, the probable earning capacity of the property
under the particular rates. prescribed by statute, and the sum
required 'to meet operating expenses, are all- matters for consideration, and are to be given such weight as may be just and
right in such case. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 547.
The basis of calculation in a rates case is: the fair value of
the property being used for the public convenience, and in
ascertaining that fair value we may consider: The original cost
of the plant; cost of permanent improvements; amount of
bonds; market value of bonds; amount. of stock; market value
of the stock; present cost of construction; earning capacity

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S..

under the ordinance; and operating expenses. Smyth v. Ames,
supra.
The finding of the master as to the value of complainant's
plant, as of the date of the passage of the ordinance, if supported
by evidence in the case, and affirmed by the lower court, is
unassailable in this court. And the findings were fully supported by the evidence. Taylor on' Jurisdiction and Procedure
of the United States Supreme. Court, § 426, and cases cited;
B. & P. R. R. Co. v. Mackey, 157 U. S. 92; Anthony v. Louisville & Nashville Ry. Co., 132 U. S. 173; Davis v. Schwartz, 155
U. S. 636.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the city of Knoxville from a decree of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Tennessee. The appellee is a public service corporation,
chartered for, and engaged in, the business of supplying that
city and its inhabitants with water for domestic and other
uses. The cause in which the decree was rendered is a suit in
equity which was brought: by the company on December 7,
1901, against the city to restrain the enforcement of a city
ordinance fixing in detail the maximum rates to be charged
by the company. This ordinance was enacted on March 30,
1901. The bill contained many allegations, which have become immaterial by the decision of this court in Knoxville
Water Company v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, in which the validity of the ordinance was sustained, except so far as it might
confiscate the property of the company by fixing rates so low
as to have that effect. The latter contention alone was left
open to the company, and to it the remainder of the bill is
mainly directed. The allegations in that regard are, that the
rates fixed by the ordinance were so low that they denied to
the company a reasonable return upon the property employed
in the ,business, and'thereby took it for' public use without
compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution of the United States. After answer by the
respondent and replication by the complainant the cause was
referred to a special master, whose report was confirmed by
the court. The master found and reported that the value of
the plant and property employed in the business at the date
of the passage of the ordinance was $608,427.95; that the gross.
income from the company's business was $88,481.39, and that
the operating expenses were $34,750.91. The figures of income and expense are those of the fiscal year ending March 31,
1901, and the valuation was made as of that date. The master
found and reported that the diminution of income which would
have resulted from the' enforcement of the ordinance during
that fiscal year was $17,623.64, and that the gross income
would have been reduced thereby to $70,857.75, leaving a net
income of $36,106.84. This net income was less than 6 per cent
on the valuation. In the opinion of the master 8 per cent,
which included 2 per cent to provide for depreciation, was the
minimum net return which the company was entitled to earn.
The judge of the Circuit Court, in his opinion confirming the
master's report, adopted the master's valuation of the whole
plant and property at $608,427.95 (although he held that it
ought to be increased by about $3,000.00), and the master's
finding that the gross income was $88,481.39; that the expenses
were $34,750.91; that the effect of the reductioii made by the
ordinance would be to lessen the gross income by $17,623.64,
and that therefore the net income under the ordinance would
be $36,106.84, or about $400.00, less than 6 per cent on the
valuation. Upon,.these assumptions of fact as to its effect the
judge regarded the ordinance as confiscatory and issued a
permanent injunction against its enforcement.
At the threshold of the consideration of the case the attitude
of this court to the facts found below should be defined. Here
are findings of fact by a master, confirmed by. the court. The
company contends that under these circumstances the findings are conclusive in this court, unless they are without support in the evidence or were made under the influence of er-

OCTOBER.TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

-

212 U. S.

roneous views of law. We need not stop to consider what the
effect of such findings would be in an ordinary suit in equity.
The purpose of this suit is to arrest the operation of a law on
the ground that it is void and of no effect. It happens that
in this particular case it is not an act of the legislature that is
*attacked, but an ordinance of a municipality. Nevertheless the
function of rate-making is purely legislative in its character,
and this is true, whether it is exercised directly by the legislature itself or by some subordinate or administrative body,
to whom the power of fixing rates in detail has been delegated.
The completed act derives its authority from the legislature
and must be regarded as an exercise of the legislative power.
Prentis v. Southern Railway Co., 211 U. S. 210; Honolulu Transit
Co. v. Hawaii,211 U. S. 282. There can be at this day no doubt,
on the one hand, that the courts on constitutional grounds may
exercise the power of refusing to enforce legislation, nor, on
the other hand, that that power ought to be exercised only in
the clearest cases. The constitutional invalidity should be
manifest, and where that invalidity rests upon disputed questions of fact the invalidating facts must be proved to the satisfaction of the court. In yiew of the character of the judicial
power invoked in such cases it is not tolerable that its exercise
should rest securely upon the findings of a master, even though
they be confirmed by the trial court. The power is best safeguarded against abuse by preserving to this court complete
freedom in dealing with the facts of each case. Nothing less
than this is demanded by the respect due from the judicial to
the legislative authority. It must not be understood that the
findings of a master, confirmed -by the trial court, are without
weight, or that they will not, as a practical question sometimes be regarded as conclusive. -All that is intended to be
said is, that in cases of this character this court will not fetter
its discretion or judgment by any artificial rules as tothe weight
of the master's findings, however useful and well settled 'these
rules may be in ordinary litigation. We approach the discussion of the facts in this spirit.

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The first fact essential to the conclusion of the court below
is the valuation of the property devoted to the public uses,
upon which the company is entitled to earn a'return. That
valuation ($608,000), must now be considered. It was made
up by adding to the appraisement, in minute detail of all the
tangible property, the sum of $10,000 for "organization, promotion, etc.," and $60,000 for "going concern." The latter
sum we understand to be an expression of the added value of
the plant as a whole over the sum of the values of its component
parts, which is attached to it because it is in active and successful operation and earning a return. We express no opinion
as to the propriety of including these two items in the valuation of the plant, for the purpose for which it is valued in
this case, but leave that question to be considered when it
necessarily arises. We assume, without deciding, that these
items were properly added in this case. The value of the
tangible property found by the master is, of course, $608,000
lessened by $70,000, the value attributed to the intangible
property, making $538,000. This valuation was determined by
the master by ascertaining what it would cost, at the date of
the ordinance, to reproduce the existing plant as a new plant.
The cost of reproduction is one way of ascertaining the present
value of a plant like that of a water company, but that test
would lead to obviously incorrect results, if the cost of reproduction is not diminished by the depreciation which has come
from age .and use. The company contends that the master
in fixing upon the valuation of the tangible property, did make
an allowance for depreciation, but we are unable to agree to
this. The master nowhere says that he made allowance for
depreciation and the language of his report is inconsistent with
such a reduction. The figures which he adopts are those of a
"fair contractor's price." The .basis of his calculation was the
testimony of an opinion witness called by the company. That
witness submitted a table, which avowedly showed the cost
of reproduction, without allowance for depreciation. The
values testified to by him were adopted by the master in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

great majority of cases. The witness's valuation of the tangible property was somewhat reduced by the master, but the
reductions were not based upon the theory of depreciation, but
upon a difference of opinion as to the reproduction cost.
'The cost of reproduction is not always a fair measure of the
present value of a plant which has been in use for many years.
The items composing the plant depreciate in value from year
to year in a varying degree. Some pieces of property, like
real estate for instance, depreciate not at all, and sometimes, on
the other hand, appreciate in value. But the reservoirs, the
mains, the service pipes, structures upon real estate, standpipes, pumps, boilers, meters, tools and appliances of every
kind begin, to depreciate with more or less rapidity from the
moment of their first use. It is not easy to fix at any given
time the amount of depreciation of a plant whose component
parts are of different ages with different expectations of life.
But it is clear that some substantial allowance for depreciation
ought to have been made in this case. The officers of the company, alio intuitu, estimated what they called "incomplete
depreciation" of this plant .(which we understand to be the
.depreciation of the surviving parts of it still in use) at $77,000,
which is 14 per cent of the master's appraisement of the tangible property. A witness called by the city placed the reproduction value of the tangible property at $363,000, and estimated the allowance that should be made for depreciation at
$118,000, or 32 per cent. In the view we take of the case it is
not necessary that we should undertake the difficult task of
determining exactly how much the master's valuation of the
tangible property ought to have been diminished by the depreciation which that property had undergone. It is enough
to say that there should have been a considerable diminution,
sufficient at least to raise the net income found by the court
above 6 per cent upon the whole valuation thus diminished.
If, for instance, the master's valuation should be diminished
by $50,000, allowed for depreciation, the net earnings found
by him would show a return of substantially 6.5 per cent.

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for the company urge rather faintly that the capitalization of the company ought to have some influence in
the case in determining the valuation of the property. It is a
sufficient answer to this contention that the capitalization is
shown to be considerably in excess of any valuation testified
to by any witness, or which can be arrived at by any process
of reasoning. The cause for the large variation between the
real value of the property and the capitalization in bonds and
preferred and common stock is apparent from the testimony.
All, or substantially all, the preferred and common stock was
issued to contractors for the construction of the plant, and the
nominal amount of the stock issued was greatly in excess of
the true value of the property furnished by the contracts.
A-single instance taken from the testimony will illustrate this.
At th6 very start of the enterprise a contract was entered into
for the construction of a part of the plant, which was of a
value slightly, if at all, exceeding $125,000. The price paid
the contractor was $125,000 in bonds and $206,000 in common
stock: Other contracts for construction showed a like disproportion between value furnished and nominal capitalization received for that yalue. It perhaps is unnecessary to say
that such contracts were made by the company with persons
who, at the time, by stock ownership, controlled its action.
Bonds and preferred and common stock issued under such
conditions afford neither measure of nor guide to the value of
the property.
We think that the master and the court erred in another
respect, which might affect in an important way the amount
which could have been realized under the operation of the ordinance. This error consisted in the manner of deducting the
reductions necessarily made by the ordinance. The evidence
in the record is not entirely clear, though, after careful consideration, we think it shows the follbwing state of facts: The
company's schedule prescribed certain rates, which we may
call the book rates, but upon a large part of them a discount
of 5 per cent was made if they' were promptly paid. The

OCTOBER TERM,. 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

consumers very generally availed themselves of this discount.
The discount rates constituted the actual collections, and may
be called the actual rates. For the fiscal year which was
examined the book rates amounted, in round numbers, to
$93,000, while the actual rates amounted, as the master found,
to $88,000. The percentage of reduction made by the ordinance was computed to be 22.88.- This percentage was ascertained either by comparing the book rates with the ordinance
rates, or by comparing the actual rates with the ordinance rates,
still further reduced by a 5 per cent 'discount for prompt
payment, which comes to substantially the same result. The
fallacy in the procesg employed by the master consisted in
substance in assuming that the ordinance rates would be subject to. a discount for prompt payment. The company, it is
true, might, if it chose, allow, such a discount from the ordihance rates, but the ordinance required no discount from the
rates established by it, and the company therefore was bound
to offer none. If it stood upon the letter of the ordinance, as
it had the right to do, and exacted from the consumers the full
charges prescribed by the ordinance, the amount which would
have been realized would have been over $4,000 more than
that found by the master, or a net income of not less than
$40,000. Doubtless, the abandonment of the common method
of discount for prompt payment would deprive the company
of an efficient aid to the quick collection of its bills, but in the
case of a prime necessity like water there are other methods
of enforcing prompt payment, though it is not unlikely that
the elimination of the discount rate would add somewhat to
the cost of collection, and thereby to the operating expenses.
A brief recently filed by the city, to which no reply has been
made, seems to show conclusively that there was still another
.error in ascertaining the amount of reduction effected by the
ordinance. What was actually done was to deduct the 22.88
reduction from the actual water rates (excluding hydrant
rentals, which were not changed), but of these actual water
rates $10,000 came from territory outside of the corporate

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

limits, which was not affected by the ordinance. From this
$10,000 no percentage should have been deducted. The reduction, therefore, was too large by over $2,000. If this correction should be made, it would amount to nearly four-tenths of
one per cent on the capitalization.
We are also of opinion that the master and the court erroneously excluded evidence which had an important bearing
upon the true earning capacity of the company under the ordinance. A clear appreciation of this error can be best obtained by a comprehensive review of the hearing. The company's original case was based upon an elaborate analysis of
the cost of construction. To arrive at the present value of the
plant large deductions were made on account of the depreciation. This depreciation was divided into complete depreciation and incomplete depreciation. The complete depreciation
represented that part of the original plant which through destruction or obsolescence had actually perished as useful property. The incomplete depreciation represented the impairment
in value of the parts of the plant which remained in existence
and were continued in use. It was urgently contended that
in fixing upon the value of the plant upon which the company was entitled to earn a reasonable return the amounts
of complete and incomplete depreciation should be added to
the present value of the surviving parts. The court refused
to approve this method, and we think properly refused. A
water plant, with all its additions, begins to depreciate in
value from the moment of its use. Before coming to the question of profit at all the company is entitled to earn a sufficient
sum annually to provide not only for current repairs but for
making good the depreciation and replacing the parts of the
property when they come to the end of their life. The company is not bound to see its property gradually waste, without
making provision out of earnings for its replacement. It is,
entitled to see'-that from earnings the value of the property
invested is kept unimpaired, so that at the end of any given
term of years the original investment remains as it was at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U.S.

beginning. It is not only the right of the company to make
such a pro.vision, but it is its duty to its bond and stockholders,
and, in the case of a public service corporation at least, its
plain duty to the public. If a different course were pursued
the only method of providing for replacement of property
which has ceased to be useful would be the investment of new
capital and the issue of new bonds or stocks. This course
would lead to a constantly increasing variance between present
value and bond and stock capitalization-a tendency which
would inevitably lead to disaster either to the stockholders or
to the public, or both. If, however, a company fails to perform this plain duty and to exact sufficient returns to keep the
investment unimpaired, whether this is the result of unwarranted dividends upon over-issues of securities, or of omission
to exact proper prices for the output, the fault is its own.
When, therefore, a public regulation of its prices comes under
question the true value of the property then employed for the
purpose of earning a return cannot be enhanced by a consideration of the errors in management .which have been committed
in the past.
After the company had closed its case the city undertook
to determine the present value of the company's property by
the plain method of ascertaining the cost of reproduction, diminished by depreciation. In its case in rebuttal, the company followed the same method, though the results differed
largely, and, as we have seen, no proper allowance for depreciation was made. In the course of presenting its case the city
offered evidence of the net income of some years subsequent
to the passage of the ordinance. The case is peculiar. The
company has never observed the ordinance. The suit was begun nine months after its enactment and tried considerably
later. In the meantime the company's gross income had
largely increased. But the decision in the court below was
based solely on the operations of the fiscal year ending March 31,
1901, and the amount of net income ascertained, namely,
$36,000, was obtained by applying the reductions made by the

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U.S.

-

Opinion of the Court.

ordinance to the operations of that fiscal year. We think it
was error to confine the investigation to, and base the judgment upon, that year alone. The precise subject of inquiry
was, what would be the effect of the ordinance in the future.
The operations of the preceding fiscal year, or of any other
past fiscal year, were valueless if the year was abnormal, and
were only of significance so far as they foretold the future.
If, as in this case, sufficient time has passed, so that certainty
instead of prophecy can be obtained, the certainty would be
preferable to the prophecy. In this case there could be no absolute certainty, because the ordinance had never been put in
operation. But evidence of the operations of the years succeeding to the ordinance is relevant and of great importance,
and by a consideration of such evidence a much greater degree
of certainty could be obtained. Suppose, by way of illustration, that before bringing suit the company had put the ordinance. into effect and had observed it for a number of years,
and the result showed that a sufficient. net income had been
realized, is it possible that a suit then could be brought and the
evidence confined to a period prior to the ordinance, and by
a process of speculation the conclusion reached that the ordinance would be confiscatory? Some evidence regarding the
income of the company, after the passage of the ordinance, is
in the record, but it subsequently was excluded from consideration. It showed'an increase of gross and net earn ings, but
also an increase in the property devoted to the public use.
We are unable to say what the effect of the evidence excluded
would be; all we can say is, that the inquiry was unduly limited by the exclusion of the evidence of the operation of subsequent years.
It follows from what has been said that the judgment of the
court below cannot stand. There was error in the appraisement of the present value of the plant, in the deduction of the
reductions made by the ordinance, and in the exclusion of evidence relating to the operatioas of the company after the enactment of the oidinance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

In ordinary cases full justice would be done by reversing the
decree and remanding the-cause for further proceedings in the
court below, there to undergo a new and doubtless prolonged
investigation. It is more than seven years since the enactment of the ordinance, and it has never been observed in any
respect. This litigation ought now to be ended, if it is possible to end it with due regard to.the rights of the contending
parties. Disregarding for the moment all the errors which
were committed in the court below, the decision of this cause
may be rested upon a broader ground, which is clearly indicated by the previous judgments of this court. The jurisdiction
which is invoked here ought, as has been said, to be exercised
only in the clearest cases. If a company of this kind chooses
to decline to observe an ordinance of this nature and prefers
rather to go into court with the claim that the ordinance is
unconstitutional, it must be prepared to show to the satisfaction of the court that the ordinance would necessarily be so
confiscatory in its. effect as to violate the Constitution of the
United States. In.Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, the last
word of caution by this court was said (p. 166): "Finally it is
objected that the necessary result of upholding this suit in the
Circuit Court will be to draw to the lower Federal courts a
great flood of litigation of this character, where one Federal
judge would have it in his power to enjoin proceedings by state
officials to enforce the legislative acts of the State, either by
criminal or civil actions. To this it may be answered, in the
first place, that no injunction ought to be granted unless in a
case reasonably free from doubt. We think such rule is, and
will be, followed by all the judges of the Federal courts."
The same thought, in effect, was expressed in San Diego Land
& Town Company v. National City, 174 U. S. 739, 754, "judicial interference should never occur unless the case presents,
clearly and beyond all doubt, such a flagrant attack upon the
rights 6f property under the guise of regulations as to compel
the court to say that the rates prescribed will necessarily have
the effect to deny just compensation for private property

KNOXVILLE v. WATER CO.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taken for the public use." And in San Diego Land & Town
Company v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, after repeating with approval this language, it was said (p. 441): "In a case like this
we. do not feel bound to reexamine and weigh all the evidence,
although we have done so, or to proceed according to our independent opinion as to what were proper rates.. It is enough
if we cannot say that it was impossible for a fair-minded board
to come to the result which was reached."
It cannot be doubted that in a clear case of confiscation it is
the right and duty of the court to annul the law. Thus in
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, 154 U. S. 362,
where the property was worth more than its capitalization,
and upon the admitted facts the rates prescribed would not
pay one-half the interest on the bonded debt; in Covington &c.
Turnpike Co. V. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, where the rates prescribed would not even pay operating expenses; in Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, where the rates prescribed left substantially nothing over operating expenses and cost of service; and
in Ex parte Young, supra, where, on the aspect of the case which
was before the court, it was not disputed that the rates prescribed were in fact confiscatory, injunctions were severally
sustained. But the case before us is not a case of this kind.
Upon any aspect of the evidence the- company is certain to
obtain a substantial net revenue under the operation of the
ordinance. The net income, in any event, would be substantially 6 per cent, or 4 per cent after an allowance of 2 per cent
for depreciation. See Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin Company, 192 U. S. 201. We cannot know clearly that the revenue
would not much exceed that return. We do not feel called
upon to determine whether. a demonstrated reduction of inCome to that point would or would not amount to confiscation.
Where the case rests, as it does here, not upon observation of
the actual operation under the ordinance, but upon speculations as to its effect, based upon the operations of a prior fiscal
year, we will not guess whether the substantial return certain
to be earned wouid lack something of the return which would
VOL, cmxi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

save the effect of the ordinance from confiscation. It is enough
that the whole case leaves us in grave doubt. The valuation
of the property was an estimate and is greatly disputed. The
expense account was not agreed upon. The ordinance had not
actually been put into operation; the inferences were based
upon the operations of the preceding year; and the conclusion
of the court below rested upon that most unsatisfactory evidence, the testimony of expert witnesses employed by the parties. The city authorities acted in good faith, and they tried,
without success, to obtain from the company a statement of
its property, capitalization and earnings.
The courts, in clear cases, ought not to hesitate to arrest
the operation of a confiscatory law, but they ought to refrain
from interfering in cases of any other kind. Regulation of
public service corporations, which perform their duties under
conditions of necessary monopoly will occur with greater and
greater frequency as time goes on.' It is a delicate and dangerous function, and ought to b- exercised with a keen sense
of justice on the part of the regulating body, met by a frank
disclosure on the part of the company to be regulated. The
courts ought not to bear the whole burden of saving property
from confiscation, though they will not be found wanting where
the proof is clear. The legislatures and subordinate bodies,
to whom the legislative power has been delegated, ought to
do their part. Our social system rests largely upon the sanctity of private property, and that State or community which
seeks to invade it will soon discover the error, in the disaster
which follows. The slight gain to the consumer, which he would
obtain from a reduction in the rates charged by public service
corporations, is as nothing compared with his share in the ruin
which would be brought about by denying to private property.
its just reward, thus unsettling values and destroying confidence. On the other hand, the companies to be regulated will
find it to their lasting interest to furnish freely the information
upon which a just regulation can be based.
If hereafter it shall appear, under the actual operation of the

WILLCOX v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
212 U. S.

Sylabus.

ordinance, that the returns allowed by it operate as a confiscation of property, nothing in this judgment will prevent another
application to the courts of the United States or to the courts
of the State of Tennessee. But as the case now stands there
is no such certainty that the rates .prescribed will necessarily
have the effect of denying to the company such a return as
would avoid confiscation. For these reasonsThe decree is reversed and the case remanded to the court below
with directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice.

WILLCOX et al., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION OF NEW YORK, v. CONSOLIDATED
GAS COMPANY.
CITY OF NEW YORK v. CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
JACKSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK, v. CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 396, 397, 398. Argued November 4, 5, 6, 1908.-Decided January 4,
1909.1--Opinion filed January 12, 1909.

•It is not. a question of discretion or comity for the Federal court totake
jurisdiction of a case; it is the duty of that court to take jurisdiction
when properly appealed to; and it should not be criticized for so doing
even though the case be one of local interest. Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, 404. The right of a party plaintiff to choose the
1 On. January 4, 1909, M..

P.cKHAM .Jusrcu
made the following
announcement:
First. At the time of the consolidatiin, the value of, the franchises
of the constituent companies was fixed by them at $7,781,000 and that

amount formed part of the capital 6f the complainant for which it

