TERM, 1908.

112 .OCTOBER

Syllabus.

212 U. S.

than forty irillions of dollars, as testified by its president. Its
dividends had been as high as seven hundred per cent per
annum. It was the theory of the State, sustained by the verdict and judgment, that the former course of business was continued, notwithstanding the judgment of ouster in the former
case. Within the bounds of the statute the penalties were left
to the discretion of the jury trying. the case. While the penalties
imposed are large they are within the terms of the statute.
Under the act of 1899 the jury imposed a penalty at the rate
of $1,500 a day; under the act of 1903 at the rate of $50 per day.
Assuming for this purpose that the defendant was guilty of a
violation of the laws over a period of years, and in transacting
business upon so lirge a scale, as shown in this case, we are not
prepared to say, after confirmation of the verdict and judgment
in courts of the State, that there was want of due process of law
in the penalties assessed.
Remembering, as we-have had frequent occasion to say, that
our province in this case is limited to an examination of objections arising under the Federal Constitution, we are unable to
find in this record any ground for reversing the judgment of the
state court.
_

_Afirmed.

WATERS-PIERCE ,OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS

(NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 360.

Argued November 2, 3, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909.

The review of a judgment of a state court is confined to assignments of
error made and passed upon in the judgment brought here for review;
assignments of errors in this court cannot bring new matter into the
recoroI.
When a state court decides a case upon a non-Federal ground which is

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 2).
212 U. S.

113

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient to maintain the decision this court will not review the judgment.
Procedure in matters under its jurisdiction is for the State and its
courts to determine; and nothing in.
the Federal Constitution prevents a state court from acting in a proceeding for receivership of a
corporation brought by the State on testimony taken in the suit by
the State against the same corporation and on the judgment inwhich
suit the receivership proceeding is based.
An attempt to raise the Federal question in the petition for rehearing in
the highest court of the State will not avail if the petition is overruled
without specifically passing on the questions.
Writ of error to review 105 S. W. Rep. 851, dismissed.
THEfacts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Moorfield Storey, Mr. E. B. Perkins and Mr. Henry
Samuel Priest,with whom Mr. J. L. Thorndike was On the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. R. V. Davidson, Attorney General of the State of Texas,
Mr. R. L. Batts and Mr. G. W. Allen, with whom Mr. Jewel P.
Lightfoot, Mr. John W. Brady and Mr. T. W. Gregory were on
'the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This'case was argued and submitted with Waters-Pierce Oil
Company, plaintiff in error, against the State of Texas, just decided, NO. 359, ante, p. 86. It is brought here to review the action of the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas affirming an order of
the District Court of Travis County appointing a receiver to
take charge of the property, and business of the Waters-Pierce
Oil Company. In view of the statement made in No. 359 it is
.unnecessary to repeat the facts leading up to the judgment in
this case. On the same day that the judgment was rendered in
the former casethe State of Texas, acting through its Attorney
General and the- county attorney of Travis County, filed in the
District Court of.Travis County an application for the appoinVOL,

ccxii-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

ment of a receiver, reciting the judgment rendered in the earlier
case, averring that a suit was, pending in Missouri for the forfeiture of the charter of the Waters-Pierce Oil Company; that a
master had been appointed in that case by the Supreme Court
of the State wherein the action was pending; that he had reported in favor of dissolving the corporation, which recommendation had the force and effect of a judgment forfeiting the
charter of said compahy, and it was alleged that the penalties
recovered in that case could not be collected outside of the State
of Texas; that the property of the defendant within the State of
Texas was inadequate to pay the judgment; that the great bulk
of the property situated in the State subject to the payment of
the judgment consisted of accounts, cars, money on hand and
other property, easily movable, and that if the same was carried
beyond the limits of the State the judgment could not be collected. It was averred that under and by virtue of an act of the
State of Texas, passed April 11, 1907, the State has a lien upon
all said property to secure the payment of the above-mentioned
judgment.
A receiver was asked for to take charge of the property and
assets of every kind belonging to the defendant and situated in
the State of Texas. And the State also asked for a writ of injunction, prohibiting the removal from the State of Texas of any
of the property of the defendant. On the same day the court
granted the temporary injunction as prayed for, and set the application for a receiver for hearingon June 8, 1907.
On the.seventh of June the defendant's motion for a new trial
in the principal case having been overruled, the defendant gave
notice of appeal to the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas, and
tendered a supersedeas bond in the sum of $3,275,000, which
bond was not accepted. On June 10, 1907, the court reached
the conclusion that a receiver should be appointed, and continued the temporary injunction in force, from which action the
defendant gave notice of its intention to appeal to the Civil
Court of Appeals. At the time of the making of this order the
judge of the court announced his determination to appoint

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 2).
212 U. S.

-

115

Opinion of the Court.

Robert J. Eckhardt receiver, and postponed the hearing until
June 13, 1907, to hear objections to the appointment, and on
that date the court made its order appointing Eckhardt receiver,
fixing the bond in the sum of $250,000. On June i9, 1907, Eckhardt filed his bond, which was approved and he qualified as receiver, and after the appointment of a receiver and the approval.
of his bond as aforesaid a supersedeas bond in the sum of
$100,000, for appeal from the order appointing a receiver, was
approved. On June 15, 1907, the motion fof new trial being
overruled in the main case, the Waters-Pierce Oil Company
appealed, and gave a bond, Which was approved by the clerk.
On the appeal of the present case, involving the receivership,
to the Civil Court of Appeals of Texas an application was made
for an injunction restraining areceiver, who had been appointed
by the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas, upon which application the court declined to
make any order interfering with the Federal receiver, but'ordered its receiver to appear in conjunction with the attorneys
of the State of. Texas in the Circuit Court of the United States,
and there'urge and insist upon the rights of the state courts to
prior jurisdiction. 103 S. W. Rep. 836.
The right to theFederal receivership is involved in No. 224 of
this term, heretofore argued and submitted to this court.1
On October 23, 1907, the appeal of the Waters-Pierce Oil
Company from the order appointing a receiver came on for hearing in the Court of Civil Appeals. The judgment of the District
Court was affirmed. 105 S. W. Rep. 851. Subsequently the Su,
preme Court of Texas refused a writ. of error to that judgment.
The present proceeding in this court seeks a reversal Of the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas affirming the order
in the District Court appointing the receiver.
It is well settled in this court that a review of the judgment of
a state court is confined to the assignments of error made and
passed upon in the judgment of the state court brought here for
review. The assignment of errors in this court cannot bring into
See post, p. -118,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the.Oourt.

212 U. S.

Hardingv.
the record any new matter for. our consideration.(
llinois, 196 U. S. 78.
Looking to the assignments of error in the Court of Civil Appeals, we find that the first one to mention the' Federal Constitution is No. IX, in which the constitutionality of the act of the
State of Texas approved April 11, 1907, is challenged, and that
-act is alleged to be void because in violation of ยง 10 of Article II
of the Constitution' of the United States, which denies to any
State the right to pass ex postfacto laws.
The tenth assignment assails the same. act, because in violation of. ยง 1 .of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. 'Assignment 12 is likewise based upon objections to
the act of April 11,: 1907. The amended assignments of error
contain additional assignments, numbers 15 and 16, which likewise, are also leveled at the act of April 11, 1907..
The act of April 11, 1907,.undertakes in' 1 thereof to give'a
lien upon the property' of any corporation within the State, or
on any corporation created by the laws of the State, . or any
foreign corporation authorized to do business'within the. State,
which shall Violate the anti-trust laws oftheStite, for fines and
penalties, with costs of suit recovered' in' such bases, and gives
'the like lien for the recovery of such fines and -penalties Where.
any such law had been theretofore violated, 'or should be violated before the taking effect of the act, and provides for the
appointment of a receiver in such cases. '
When we examine the opinion of the Court of Civil Appeals
we find that it sustained the proceeding for the aipointment of
a receiver, not only 'under the act of April 11, 1907, but as well
by. virtue of. subdivision 3 of article 1465 of Sayles? Civil. Statutes for Texas,. passed originally in 1887, which subdivision
provides that a receiver may be appointed where a corporation
has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights.
It is well settled in this court that where a state court decides
a case upon an independent ground not within the Federal objections taken, -and that ground is sUfficient to maintain the

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. a. TEXAS (NO. 2).
212 U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court.

judgment, this court will not review the case. Leatw v. Thomas,
207 U. S. 93; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; Giles v. Teasley, 193
U. S. 146.
The only other assignments of error in the receivership proceedings which mention the Federal Constitution are num-.
bers 13 and 14, which are as follows:
"XIII.- The court erred in appointing the said receiver without any evidence being introduced before it at the time said appointment was made to show that defendant did not intefid to
change its status and methods of doing business so as to conform to the laws of the State of Texas, and without evidence
affirmatively showing that defendant could not make use of itsproperty and carry on its business in accordanice with law,_and
in holding that the court was authorized to so appoint a receiver
for defenaant's property in the State of Texas and deprive defendant of the instrumentalities by which it had been convicted
of violating the laws of said State, based upon its past conduct
and the said judgment of; conviction rendered against it on
June 1, 1907.
"Wherefore, defendant says that the said action of the court
was unauthorized and in violation of ยง 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and has
the effect of depriving defendant of'its property without due
process of law and in denying to it the equal protection of the
laws.
"XIV. The court erred in disregarding the supersedeas bond
filed by' the defendant,- in connection with its appeal from the
main judgment recovered against it on June 1, 1907, and in requiring defendant to file the additional bond in the sum of one
hundred thousand dollars to supersede the order appointing the
said receiver and to avoid having to surrender its property to
said receiver by reason of said appointment, and this action-on
the part of the court was without lawful warrant and in violation of ยง 1 of the.Foureenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, in that the effect of. such action by the
court Was to deprive the defendant of its property without due

OCTOBERTERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

process of law and to deny to it the equal protection of the
law."
We are of opinion that neither of these assignments presents
substantial questions of a Federal character. The practice of
the state courts in acting upon matters within their jurisdiction
is left for the States and their courts administering their laws to
determine, and if the court saw fit to act upon the testimony
already heard and the conviction already had of the violation
'ofthe anti-trust laws of the State, there is nothing
in the Federal Constitution which prevents it from so doing. Nor does
the time or manner in which the state court saw fit to approve
the receiver's bond present any question under the Fourteenth
Amendment. See the cases cited in Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Texas, No. 359, ante,.p. 86. The attempt to assign new errors
in the petition for rehearing, which was overruled without an
opinion passing on Federal questions, cannot avail. See McCorquodale v. Texas, 211 U. S.432, decided at this term of this
court, and previous cases therein cited. We are therefore of
the opinion that no substantial Federal question is presented
in this case, and the writ of error must be dismissed.
The writ of error is ,dismissed.

PALMER v. STATE OF TEXAS AND ECKHARDT, RECEIVER OF THE WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 224.

Argued April 8, 9, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909.

As the Federal and the state court exercise jurisdiction within the same
territory, derived from and controlled by separate authority, each
must respect the jurisdiction acquired over property by the other.
When either a Federal, or a'state, court of competent jurisdiction takes
possession of, or acquires jurisdiction over, property, that property is

