OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.-

212 U. S.

they served from the moment of starting, or would serve if the
end of the transportation be the Bourbon Stock Yards. If the
end of the transportation be made the Central Stock Yards,
there is the added element only that a limited and temporary
possession of the cars is given to the Southern Railway Company, a possession, it must be said, not required in the interest
of that company, but in the interest of the commerce of which
it and the plaintiff in error are but instrumentalities, and as aids
'to which they were organized and are permitted to exist.
But I do not have to take this position, strongly supported as
it may be.. It is enough for my purpose that the constitution of
the State provides for compensation for the duty it imposes on
the railroads.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR.
concur in this dissent.

JUSTICE MOODY

ONTARIO LAND COMPANY v. YORDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF-THE STATE oik WASHINGTON.

No. 59.

Argued January 7, 1909.-Decided February 1, 1909.

Although a description may not be technically correct, if it identifies the
land it will sustain a conveyance, or, as in this case, an.assessment.
for taxes, and notice of.'sale therefor when delinquent; and, if the
owner knows that the property so described is his, he is not, by reason
of the deficient description, deprived of his property without due process of law.
Where, as in the State of Washington, tax proceedings are in rem,
owners are bound to take notice thereof and to pay taxes on their
property, even if assessed to unknown or other persons; and, if an
owner stands by and sees the property sold for delinquent taxes, he is
not thereby deprived of hisproperty without due process of law.
44 Washington, 239, affirmed.

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. YORDY.
212 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ON. May 16, 1889, plaintiff's grantors, Chester A. Congdon

and Clara B. Congdon, his wife, then the owners of the west
half (W. ) of the southeast quarter (S. E. ) and the east
half (E. ) of the southwest quarter (S. W. ) of section twentyfour (24), in township thirteen (13) north, range eighteen (18)
east, Willamette meridian, excepting ten acres which belonged
to Charles M. Holton, platted their land as "Capital Addition
to North Yakima." According to the plat, in the central portion was a body of land marked "-reserved" and not divided
into lots and blocks. If it had been so divided the ground
would have made four blocks, and to be in harmony with the
other numbering would have been blocks 352, 353, 372 and 373.
Nothing was shown on the plat to indicate the meaning of the
term "reserved," nor the useto which the tract was to be applied. For the years 1892, 1893, 1894 and 1895 the proper
assessor listed and assessed for taxation with other real estate
that which he described as blocks 352 and 372 in "Capital Addition to North Yakima." All taxes on the property so listed
for these years became delinquent. The county foreclosed the
same in proceedings conforming to the statutes of Washington,
and under the decree the property was sold and a tax deed
executed to the defendant Jay Yordy,-who paid all subsequent
taxes levied thereon. After the platting by Congdon and wife,
and in 1890, they deeded all the landto the plaintiff, describing
it not by lots and blocks, but by the Government descriptions,
and with no allusion to the Capital Addition to North Yakima.
In September, 1904, after the tax deed had been executed, delivered and recorded, the plaintiff platted that portion of Capital Addition marked "reserved" as "Heerman's Addition to
North Yakima," and subdivided said reserved tract into four
blocks, numbered from 1 to 4 inclusive, each block being subdivided into 16 lots. The defendant Jay Yordy had already
taken "possession of the tract purchased by him, claiming it
under his tax deed. On March 17, 1905, the plaintiff brought
this action against the defendants to recover the property, describing it as lots in blocks 1 and 2 of Heerman's Addition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

The plaintiff had actual knowledge of the fact that an attempt
was being made to levy and collect taxes upon that portion of
its property marked " reserved;" it denied the validity of such
taxes in interviews with two county treasurers and stood
quietly by during the foreclosure proceedings and tax sale.
With full knowledge it permitted the purchaser to make his
purchase without any protest, and only thereafter platted the
reserved tract as Heerman's Addition to North Yakima. The
'trial court entered judgment in favor of the plaintiff, but that
judgment, was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State,
which ordered a judgment in favor of the defendants. 44 Washington, 239. Thereupon the case was brought here on error.
Mr. Arcadius L. Agatin, with whom Mr. William W. Billson
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
These lands were not described in the tax proceedings. So
held, by the United., States Circuit Court, in a case involving
the same tax sale of the other half of the same unplatted tract.
OntarioLand Co. v. Wilfong, 162 Fed. Rep. 999; Rokendorff v.
Taylor, 4 Pet. 349; baldwin v. Winslow, 2 Minnesota, 213;
Tallman v. White, 2 N. Y. 66; Zink v. McManus, 121 N. Y.
259; Miller v. Williams, 135 California, 183, 185; Schattler v.
Cassinelli,56 Arkansas, 172; Jones v. Pelham, 84 Alabama' 208;
People v. Mahoney, 55 California, 286; Greene v. Lunt, 58
Maine, 518, 534; Bidwell v.. Webb, 10 Minnesota, 59: Jackson v.
Sloman, 117 Michigan, 126; Clemens v. Rannells, 34 Missouri,
583; Wooters v. Arledge, 54 Texas, 395; Jackson v. Delaney,
13 Johns. 552; Mitchell v. Ireland, 54 Texas, 301; Kleber, Void
Sales, § 354, and cases cited.
. The lack of description is not cured by the owner's personal
knowledge of the tax, whether accidentally derived, or otherwise. The Washington tax proceeding is purely in rem. Williams v. Pittock, 35 Washington, 271; Woodward v. Taylor, 33.
Washington, 1; Spokane v. Abitz, 80 Pac. Rep. 192; Security
Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S.323, 332.
It is not enough that the owners may by chance have notice,

ONTARIO LAND CO. v. YORDY.
2i2 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

or that they may, as a matter of favor, have a hearing. The
law miist require notice to them and give them a right to a
hearing and an opportunity to be heard. Stuart v. Palmer, 74
N. Y. 188, 195; Railroad Tax Cases, 13 Fed. Rep. 722, 753;
Roller v. Holly, 176 V. S. 398, 409.
The tax proceedingg not having described the property, were
not, as against -it, due process of law. Ontario Land Co. v.
Wilfong, 162 Fed. Rep. 999.
A description was indispensable. - Ballinger's Code, §§ 1749,
1751, 17511, 1751b.
There can of course be no valid judgment in rem without
either an actual seizure, or some notice-conveying act which the
law can treat as a constructive seizure, of the res. Windsor v.
McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274; Leigh v. Greene, 193 U. S. 79; Longyear
v. Toolon, 209 U. S. 414; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373.
The state judgment in this case was wanting in due process,
in that it awarded to aefendants affirmative relief upon a distinct cause of action which had not been pleaded, and to which
therefore the jurisdiction' Qf the court did not extend.
It assumes to supplant the title by force of a tax judgment
and sale upon whose validity a hearing was denied. Ballinger's Code, §§ 4912, 4913.
Mr. Benjamin S. Grosscup for defendants in error:
It is the policy of the State of Washington to sustain tax
titles. Errors of a technical character in assessments and foreclosure proceedings are disregarded. So long as substantial
justice is done, real estate is not permitted to-escape the burden
of taxation, and the title to land is not permitted to remain for
years under the cloud of a title forfeited by the owner's failure
-to promptly bear his share: of the burden of government.
Spokane Falls & N. Ry. Co. v, Abitz, 38 Washington, 8; Carson
v. Titlow, 38 Washington, 196; Rowland v. Eskeland, 40 Wash- ington, 253; Shipley v. Gaffner, 7 Wash. Dec. 400; S. C., 93
Pac. Rep. 211.
A tax law is within the fundamental requirem nt of due

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

process if the owner at some stage is given opportunity to be
heard, and a requirement that he shall give security to pay or
deposit the just amount of tax as a condition to the prosecution of a suit is not a denial of a Federal right. McMillen v.
Anderson, 95 U. S. 37.
The courts of Washington exercise broad revisory power
over the acts of taXing officers. Templeton v. Pierce County, 65
Pac. Rep. 553:
'This court will not look beyond the Federal question unless
such Federal question has been decided erroneously by the
state court. McLaughlin v. Fo~lver, 154 U. S. 663.
The state court having correctly decided the legal question
and examined into the question of fact as to whether the property involved was taxed, this court will not review that finding.
Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.658; King v. Portland, 184 U. S.
61, 70.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention of plaintiff in error in the state courts, as
shown by the record, and also stated in the certificate of the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State, is that sustaining the tax proceedings, divests it of its property without
due process of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to the*Constitution of the United States. 'At the time of
those proceedings, while the land in controversy was within the
limits of the Capital Addition to North Yakima, it had not
been divided into lots and -blocks, but was simply marked on
the official plat "reserved." In other Words, -adcording to the
record there was no such property as that described, and nothing to identify any property. There being no legal description,
no official identification, no one could, by an examination of the
records,, know what. property was the subjdect of the proceedings. Hence, they were void, and no bne was -bound to take
notice of them. But land may be identified, although not tech-

ONTARIO LAND CO.
212 U. S.

v. YORDY.

'Opinion of the Court.

nically or officially described, and the identification may be
sufficient to sustain a contract, or conveyance. The owner of
property is bound to take notice of the time and place provided
for tax proceedings. He knows that his property is subject to
taxation. The plaintiff was the owner of the entire Capital Addition to North Yakima. It-was charged with notice of the fact
of the platting and the condition shown by the plat. Examining the tax proceedings, it would find that four blocks not named
on . the plat, but within that addition, were listed and assessed
for taxation. It would also know that if the tract reserved had
been divided into' blocks and lots and numbered in harmony
with that of the balance of the addition, blocks 352, 353, 372
-and 373 would occupy the place of the tract marked "reserved."
It, therefore, had notice by the record that the authorities were
listing and assessing for taxation certain blocks and lots which
occupied the place marked upon the official plat as "reserved."
It also had notice that that tract marked "reserved" was not
otherwise listed or assessed for taxation, and that if its entire
property was listed and assessed, the words "blocks numbered 352," etc., were used by the authorities for describing
the "reserved" tract. Could it ignore these facts because the
description in the tax proceedings was not officially or technically correct or sufficient? But the case does not rest on this
presumption. It appears from the testimony of the county
treasurers that the plaintiff knew that the authorities were attempting to assess and tax this "reserved" tract under the description of blocks 352, etc., so that it had not merely notice
from the record, but notice in fact, that the tract marked "reserved" was being assessed for taxation under the description
of blocks 352, etc., and in no other way. The general rule in
reference to description in conveyances is thusstated by Jones
on Real Property, § 323:
"The first requisite of an adequate description is that the
land shall be identified with reasonable certainty, but the degree of certainty required is always qualified by the application
of the-rule that that is certain which can be made certain. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

.212 U. S.

deed will not be declared void for uncertainty if it is possible,
by any reasonable rules of -construction, to, ascertain from the
description, aided by extrinsic evidence, what property it was
intended to convey. The office of a desdription is not to identify
the lan1,, but to' furnish the means of idehtification. The description will beliberally construed to afford the basis of a valid
grant. It is only when it remains a matter of conjecture what
property was intended to be conveyed, after resorting to such
extrinsic evidence as is admissible, that the deed will be held
void for uncertain~y in the. description of' parcels."
The statutes of Washington provide that: .
"Any judgment for the deed to real estate Sold for delinquent
taxes rendered after the passage of this act, except as otherwise
provided in this section, shall estop all parties from raising any
objections thereto, or to a tax title based thereon, which existed
at or before the rendition of such judgment, and could have
been presented as a defense to the application for such judgment in'the court wherein the same was rendered, and as to all
such questions the judgment itself shall be conclusive evidence
of its regularity and validity, in all collateral proceedings, except in cases where the tax or assessments have been paid, or
the real estate was not liable to the tax or assessment." 1
Ballinger's Code, Statutes of Washington, § 1767.
. In Washington proceedings for the collection of taxes upon
real property are in rem.. Spokane Falls & Northern Railway v.
Abitz, 38 Washington, 8;'Allen v. Peterson, 38 Washington, 599;
Rowland v. Eskeland, 40 Washington, 253; Shipley v. Gaffner,
48 Washington, 169, 171.
In this last case it was said by the court:
"We have repeatedly held that these tax foreclosure proceedings are in rem, and not against the person of the owner,
and that owners are bound to take notice of the property they
own and pay the taxes thereon and defend against foreclosure
for delinquent taxes, even though the property is assessed to
unknown persons or to other persons." See also Carson v.
'Titlow, 38 Washington, 196, 198.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

Syllabus. •

We are of opinion that the Federal question in this case was
rightly decided, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of

Washington is
Affirmed.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. DESELMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 62. Argued January 8, 1909.-Decided February 1, 1909.
In the construction of a statute a superfluous negative may be omitted
where the meaning is apparent, as in this ease.
Where the subject is within the power of the State it is not within the
province of the judiciary to disregard statutory standards on the
ground that the legislature did not act wisely in en'acting them.
Provisions for unequal punishment of corporations and individuals for
violations of the same statute, held, in regard to the Oklahoma Territory Oil Inspection Law, to be separable, and, even if. unconstitutional, not to affect the prohibitions contained in the statute against
the use of oil not conforming to the standards fixed thereby.
Under the circumstances of this case, this court will not hold that the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma erred in judicially noticing a custom in
the Territory to use coal oil in kindling fires.
While the burden on the plaintiff is not satisfied by showing an accident
and an injury, where there was adequate proof to show that an explosion occurred which 6ould only have occurred by the unlawful
character of articles sold by defendant, a peremptory instruction for
defendant is properly refused.
Where the original vendor knowingly sells, as coal oil, a mixture of coal
oil and gasoline, of such inflammable character as to be unlawful under the local statute, to a vendee who in ignorance of its unlawful
nature sells it to a third party in like ignorance, the original vendor
is directly responsible to the final purchaser for the consequences of
an explosion, produced solely by reason of such unlawful nature
'while the oil is being used in a legitimate manner. In such a case
the responsibility of the original vendor rests not on contract but in
tort.

