OCTOBERTERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

process of law and to deny to it the equal protection of the
law."
We are of opinion that neither of these assignments presents
substantial questions of a Federal character. The practice of
the state courts in acting upon matters within their jurisdiction
is left for the States and their courts administering their laws to
determine, and if the court saw fit to act upon the testimony
already heard and the conviction already had of the violation
'ofthe anti-trust laws of the State, there is nothing
in the Federal Constitution which prevents it from so doing. Nor does
the time or manner in which the state court saw fit to approve
the receiver's bond present any question under the Fourteenth
Amendment. See the cases cited in Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Texas, No. 359, ante,.p. 86. The attempt to assign new errors
in the petition for rehearing, which was overruled without an
opinion passing on Federal questions, cannot avail. See McCorquodale v. Texas, 211 U. S.432, decided at this term of this
court, and previous cases therein cited. We are therefore of
the opinion that no substantial Federal question is presented
in this case, and the writ of error must be dismissed.
The writ of error is ,dismissed.

PALMER v. STATE OF TEXAS AND ECKHARDT, RECEIVER OF THE WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 224.

Argued April 8, 9, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909.

As the Federal and the state court exercise jurisdiction within the same
territory, derived from and controlled by separate authority, each
must respect the jurisdiction acquired over property by the other.
When either a Federal, or a'state, court of competent jurisdiction takes
possession of, or acquires jurisdiction over, property, that property is

PALMER v. TEXAS.
212 U.S.

Argument for Petitioners.

as effectually withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the other court as
though, removed to the territory of another s6vereignty. Wabash
Railroad v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. '38, 54.
Jurisdiction over property, properly acquired by the state court on the
qualification of the receiver, is not lost by the giving of a supersedeas
pending appeal which, as iv, this case, merely suspends the order of
appointment.
When a state court has acquired jurisdiction over property before any
application is made-to the Federal court it has the right 'while lawfully exercising that jurisdiction to determine how far it will permit
any other court to interfre therewith. People's Bank v. Calhoun,
102 U. S.256.
Jurisdiction over property by a state court so as to withdraw it froi the
jurisdiction of Federal courts in the same territory, does not necessarily depend on possession, but is acquired as soon as the receiver has
been- appointed and has qualified. Farmer's Loan & Trust Co. v.
Lake ;St. Electric Railway Co., 177 U. S. 59, followed; Shields v. Cole-*
man, 157 U. S. 168, distinguished.
.The courts of a State construe its statutes and their judgment is conclusive in the Federal courts.
Where the state courts have sustained a receivership of a foreign corpo-,
ration on a statute in force before the corporation entered the State,
and such statute provides for the appointment of a receiver in case
of dissolution, forfeiture, insolvency or imminent danger thereof, the
fact that' the receivership was also sustained under provisions of an
anti-trust law passed after the corporation entered the State, does not
amount to an unlawful interference of the rights of such corporation
to transact interstate commerce business.
Under the circumstances of this case it is not proper to charge the costs
and expenses of the receiver erroneously appointed by the Federal
court on complainant, but those expenses should be paid from the
fund.
158 Fed. Rep. 705, modified and affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Moorfield Storey and Mr. E. B. Perkins, with whom Mr.

J. L. Thorndike was on the brief, for petitioners:
The receiver appointed by the state court was not in possession, and had no right to possession, of the property at the time

when the order was made by the United States court for the
appointment of a receiver. Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 169;

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Argument for Petitioners.

212 U. S.

People's Cemetery Association v. Oakland Cemetery Co., 24 Tex.
Civ. App. 668; S. C., 60 S. W. Rep. 679; Hagan v. Lucas, 10
Pet. 400, discussed and distinguished.
Neither the State of Texas nor Eckhardt -is a party to this
cause or interested in its objects. The suit is a shareholders'
suit for the purpose of winding up the business of the company
in Texas, which cannot be carried on there under the existing
laws, and for the protection of its property and business in the
meanwhile by the appointment of a receiver. The receiver was
appointed by the United States Circuit Court for that purpose,
without interfering with the possession of any other person except that of the defendant in the suit, The Waters-Pierce Oil
Company. There is nothing in these proceedings that affected
any right or interest either of the State of Texas or of Eckhardt, the receiver previously appointed by the state court.
Possession of the officer of one court, whether he be a receiver, sheriff, marshal, or sequestrator, is the ground upon
which the authority of other courts or any of their officers to
meddle with possession of the same property has been excluded. There is no magic about a receiver, and the same rule
is applied to him as to a sheriff or a marshal, and for the same
reasons. Hagan v. Lucas (1836), 10 Pet. 400; Taylor v. Carryl
(1857), 20 How. 583; Freeman v. Howe (1860), 24 How: 450;
Covell v. Heyman (1883), 111. U. S. 176; Shields v. Coleman
'(1895), 157 U. S. 168; Payne v. Drewe (1804), 4 East, 523, 545.
In applying the rule the same kind of possession is necessary
inthe case of a receiver as in the case of a sheriff or a marshal.
The Court of Appeals was also wrong in directing that the
costs of the receivership be taxed against the complainant.
That was a question between the parties to the suit, and was
not involved in the appeal of the, State of Texas and Eckhardt
from the 'orders refusing their application, and' the materials
necessary for determining how the costs of the receivership.
should be borne were not before the court. Those costs were
.not part of the costs of the appeal.
By the effect of the supersedeas, the property and business

PALMER- v. TEXAS.12
212 U. S.

.121
.

Argument for Respondents.

of the company remained in its hands in the same manner as if
there had been no judgment or order of the state court. The
expenses of the receivership, were a part of the expenses of
carrying on the business, and should be dealt with accordingly.
If the -State should ever be in a position to call for an account
of the business of the company during the pendency of the
appeal in the state courts, the question how the expenses of the
receivership should be borne may arise. But it does not arise
upon the appeal. in this case, and the expenses ought not to be
saddled on the plaintiff without an inquiry.
This part of the decree is also contrary to Atlantic Trust Co. v.
Chapman, 208 U.'S. 360, and in the present case there are not
even the circumstances which furnished the ground of the contention\that there should hav b een a different decision in that
case.

Mr. R. V. Davidson,'Attorney General of the State of Texas,
and Mr. G. W. Alle4, with whom Mr. Jewel P. Lightfoot, Mr.
John W. Brady, Mr. T. W. Gregory, Mr. R. L. Btts, Mr. D. W.
Doom and Mr. D. H. Doom were on the brief,'for respondents:
The state court acquired jurisdiction over the property in
question before the complaint was filed in the Federal court.
Opinion below; Farmers"L. & T. Co. v. Lake Street E. R. Co.,
177 U. S.,51; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191; Gaylord v.1
Railway Co., 6 Biss. 286, 291, 292; Union Trust Co. v. Railway
(Jo., 6 Bins. 198; Illinois Steel Co. v. Putnam, .68 Fed. Rep. 515;
Adams V. Trust Co., 66 Fed. Rep..617; Sharon v. Terry, 36 Fed.
Rep. -355; Reisner v. Railway Co., 89 Texas, 656; Lewis v. Railway Co., 81 Texas, 1; May v. Printup, 59 Georgia, 128; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. State of Texas, 103 S. W. Rep. 836.
The jurisdiction of the state courts having attached, it became exclusive,'and their right to prosecute the- suit to final
determination and exhaust their jurisdiction could not be arrested, defeated, impaired or interfered with by a Federal
tribunal. See opinion below; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Adelbert
College, 208 U. S. 38; Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176; Hagan v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondents.

212 U. S.

Lucas, 10 Pet. 400; Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall. 370; Heidritter
v. Oil Cloth Co., 112 U. S. 148, 294; People's Bank v. Winslow,
102 U. S. 256; Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583; Freeman v.
Howe, 24 How. 450; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; Farmers'
L. & T. Co. v. Railway Co., 177 U. S. 61; Sharon v. Terry, 36
Fed. Rep. 355, and authorities cited; Mutual Reserve Fund v.
Phelps, 190 U. S. 147; Reisner v. G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 89
Texas, .658, 660; Union Trust Co. v. Railway Co., 6 Biss. 197;
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 103 S. W. Rep. 836; Waite on
Insolvent Corp., § 261; High on Receivers, § 52; State v.
Reynolds, 107 S. W. Rep. 487.
The giving of the supersedeas bond appealing from the order
of the state court appointing its receiver still left the property
inthe custody of the state courts, though the right of the receiver to the possession thereof was suspended and the right of
.the oil company to such possession was for the time being
restored. Rev. Stat. of Texas, art. 1383; Waters-PierceOilCo.
v. Texas, 103S. W. Rep. 836; San Antonio St. Ry. Co. v. Texas,
38 S. W. Rep. 54; Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400; G., C. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. F. W. & N. 0. Ry. Co., 68 Texas, 103; Churchill v.
Martin,65 Texas, .368; Wells v. Littlefield, 62 Texas, 30; S. C., 12
Ab. Prac. 66; Fowler v. Stonum, 6 Texas, 72; O'Brien v. Hilburn, 22 Texas, 622, 626; Fleming v. Clark, 26 Mo. App. 222;
Caldwell v. Gans, 1 Montana, 577, 578; Coss v. Wiedei, 22
Oregon' 457; Selleck v. Phelps, 11 Wisconsin, 388; Pipher v.
Fordyce, 88 Indiana, 437; Bain v. Lyle, 67 Pa. St. 64, 66;
Slutter v. Kirkendall, 100 Pa. St. 313.
The decision of the Court of Civil Appeals of the Third Supreme Judicial District of the State of Texas, holding that the
giving of the supersedeas bond appealing from the order of the
state court appointing its receiver left the property in the
custody of the state court, is binding on the Federal court.
Rev. Stat., § 721; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 103 S. W.
Rep. 836; Wade v. Travis Co., 174 U. S. 499; United States v.
Morrison, 4 Pet. 124; Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Pet. 291; LeW nwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Fairfieldv. GallatinCo., 100 U. S.

PALMER v. TEXAS.
212 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

47; Andrews v. Nat. F. & P. Works, 36 L. R. A. 150; Sanford v.
Poe, 69 Fed. Rep. 546; Bauserman v. Blount, 147 U. S. 647;
Moores v. Citizens' Nat. Bank, 104 U. S. 625; Stutsman County
v. Wallace, 142 U. S. 293;.Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427;
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. State, 106 S. W. Rep. 326.
MR. JusTIce DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case grows out of the proceedings in the State of Texas
to forfeit the permit of the Waters-Pierce Oil Company to do
business in that State, and the subsequent proceedings for the
appointment of a receiver of the property of the company in
the state court, just decided, Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas,
Nos. 1 and 2, cases Nos. 359 and 360, ante, pp. 86, 112. It is
unnecessary, in view of the recital of the facts contained in
those cases, to repeat herein what is there said in this connection.
On the nineteenth day of June, 1907, after the appointment
of a receiver in the state case and the acceptance and approval
of his bond, an appeal was taken from the District Court of
Travis County to the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas, and bond
given to supersede the receivership. Immediately thereafter
and upon the same day a bill was filed by Bradley W. Palmer,
one of the petitioners herein, against the Waters-Pierce Oil
Company, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas, praying for the appointment of a
receiver for the Waters-Pie-ce Company. Palmer filed the bill
as a stockholder in the company. The bill is quite lengthy and
recited the proceedings in the District Court of Travis County,
Texas, sta*'d in cases Nos. 359 and 360, ante, recites the appeal
.from the order appointing a receiver, to the Court of Civil Appeals, also the appeal from'the judgment terminating the right
to do business in Texas, and for the recovery of penalties.
The prayer of the bill is for the appointment of a receiver to
take possession 'of the property belonging to the company in
Texas, that the business of the company might be wound up,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

and its property sold, that the receiver be authorized to operate and manage the property, etc.
On the same day the Waters-Pierce Oil Company waived the
service of subpcena, confessed the averments of the bill, and
the Circuit Court appbinted Chester B. Dorchester receiver.
On the same day H. C. Pierce intervened, and, repeating the
allegations of the original bill, prayed the same relief. On
June 20, 1907 , Dorchester qualified and gave bond as receiver,
and was put in possession of the property.
The cases 'involved in Nos. .359 and 360, ante, having been
appealed to the Court of Civil -Appeals, Robert J. Eckhardt,
the state receiver appointed in the District Court of Travis
County, applied in 'the Court of Civil Appeals for an order to
obtain possession of. the property which had been placed in the
hands of the Federal receiver.
The Court of *Civil Appeals on June 28, 1907, handed down
an opinion (103 S. W. Rep. 836), in which it declined to make
an order directing the receiver in the Federal court -tosurrender
possession, but did direct its receiver, in conjunction with the
law officers of the State of Texas, to appear before the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas,
and to there urge the rights of the State and the prior jurisdiction of its courts over the property in question, and to ask for
such orders, decrees and judgments as might .be proper and
necessary to protect that jurisdiction.
Thereafter, on July 1, 1907, the State of Texas, through its
officers and Eckhardt as receiver, applied to the Circuit Court
of the United States and prayed it to set aside and annul its
order appointing a Federal receiver. On July 15 the Circuit
Court 'refused to grant the -prayer of the State of Texas and te
state receiver. The State of Texas and Eckhardt as receiver
took an appeal from the order of June 19, 1907, appointing the
Federal receiver, and from the order of July 15, 1907, refusing
to vacate the order appointing Dorchester receiver. Thereupon
the matter came on for hearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and that court, holding that the state, court had first acquired

PALMER v. TEXAS.
212'U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction in the matter, reversed and vacated the order of
the Circuit Court appointing a receiver, and remanded the case
to the Circuit Court, with directions to-discharge the receiver,
and to tax all the costs of the receivership against the complainant. 158 Fed. Rep. 705.
If the state court had acquired jurisdiction over the property
by the proceedings for the appointment of its receiver, anol had
not lost the same by the subsequent proceedings, then, upon
well-settled principles' often recognized and enforced in this
court, there should be no interference with the action of the
state courts while thus exercising its authorized jurisdiction.
The Federal and state courts exercise jurisdiction within the
same territory, derived from and controlled by separate and
distinct authority, and are therefore required, upon every
principle of justice and propriety, to respect the jurisdiction
once acquired over property.by a court of the other sovereignty.
If a court of competent juiidiotion, Federal or state, has taken
possession of property, or by its procedure has obtained jurisdiction over the same, such property is withdrawn from the
jurisdiction of the courts of the other authority as effectually
as if the property had been entirely removed to the territory
of another sovereignty. Wabash Railroad v. Adelbert College,
208 U. S. 38, and previous cases in this court cited therein at
page 54.
The Circuit Court of the United States, in the appointment of
a receiver in this case, seems to have proceeded upon the
theory that the proceedings in the state court had left the
property in such a situation that it was no longer in custodia
legis, and was liable to seizure by adverse proceedings.
This situation had ariseni in the view of the Circuit Court,
because the Waters-Pierce Oil Company had given a bond securing the amount of penalties awarded against it by the judgment, rnd had also given a bond in the sum of $100,000 in
order to suspend the powers of the receiver to act pending the
appeal; and, in the view of the learned circuit judge, the court
of last resort of the State of Texas had established the rule that

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

an appeal from such order, and the giving of the securityrequired by the court, had the effect of returning the property to
the owner, and to make the order appointing the receiver inoperative. "It. appears to me,"' says the learned judge, "that
they [the Texas cases] announce the doctrine that the powers of
the receiver cease, and that the adverse party takes the security
which the law furnishes, and the defendant takes his property,
with the right to use, control and dispose of the same." 158
Fed. Rep. 717.
,The Circuit Couirt of Appeals in this'case, after reviewing the
Texas cases, reached a different conclusion, and held that the
rulings of the Supreme Court of Texas showed that the appeal
and the giving of the bond had only the effect of suspending the
order appointing the receiver, and that the court had not lost
jurisdiction over the property bythe bond given to supersede
the order made.
If the courts of Texas had acquired jurisdiction over this
propertkr, and the subsequent procedure amounted to simply
suspendinig the order appointing the receiver,' then we are of
opinion that the Federal court had no right to intervene.
If it
is established that the state court had -acquired jurisdiction
over this property before the application in the Federal court
was made, the court of the State had the right to determine for
itself, while continwing to lawfully exercise its prior jurisdiction, how far it would permit any other court to interfere with
such possession and jurisdiction. People's Bank v. Calhoun,
.102 U. S. 258, 261.
As already stated, after the case reached the Court of Civil
Appeals of Texas an application was made for relief against
the receiver appointed by the United States Circuit Court, and
to obtain possession, of the property. That court maintained
(103 S. W. Rep. 836) that the state court had acquired jurisdiction over the property; that the. effect of the appeal was
simpty, to suspend the order' appointing the receiver, and that
the appellite court still, had., Jurisdiction over the res the
same as the trial court had .nd the coir cited the decisions

PALMER v. TEXAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Supreme Court of Texas which seem to support that
view.
The Court of Civil Appeals subsequently affirmed the order
appointing the receiver, holding that the proceeding was authorized under the act of April 11, 1907, and the general statutes of Texas, authorizing the appointment of a receiver where
a corporation had forfeited its corporate rights. Article 1465,
Sayles' Stats. of Texas.
Upon application to the Supreme Court of Texas that court
refused to allow a petition in error to be filed, and the case was
brought here, being No. 360, ante, just disposed of, in which we
held no Federal question was raised, ante, p. 112.
The case also came before the Supreme Court of Texas, and
is reported in Waters-Pierce Oil Company v. The State, 106
S. W. Rep. 326. In that case application was made by the
Attorney General in the Supreme Court of the State for the
appointment of a receiver, and the court, ih deciding the motion
stated its reason for recalling the mandate issued by the Court
of Civil Appeals upon the motion of the Waters-Pierce Oil
Company, and also passed upon the application of the Attorney
General of the State of Texas for an order revoking the order
recalling the mandate of the Court of Civil Appeals, or a direction of the Supreme Court that the state receiver take actual
and physical possession of the property and conduct the same
under the order of the Supreme Court until the final disposition
of the case.
The grounds stated for the former order, recalling the mandate of the Court of Civil Appeals, were that as the appellant,
the Waters-Pierce Oil Company, had the right to present an
application for a writ of error to the Supreme Court, the clerk
of the Court of Civil Appeals had no authority to issue the mandate on the judgment of that court until the time had expired
for an application for writ of error to the Supreme Court,. and
the mandate was therefore withdrawn to await the action of
the Supreme Court upon the application for writ of error. As
before stated, that application for writ of error has since been

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

denied. In stating its decision on the motion to withdraw the
mandate the Supreme Court of Texas said:
"That decision in no wise interferes with any authority that
the District Court or the receiver could lawfully exercise over
the property of the oil company during the pendency of that
appeal."
In considering, the effect of the appeal the Supreme Court of
Texas cited tht previous cases in Texas, and used the following
language (106 S. W. Rep. 330):
"This court has no power to direct or authorize Eckhardt to
take charge of the property of the defendant company, when
the statute expressly provides that the giving of the appeal bond
shall suspend the action of the court in that regard. If the appeal did not have the effect to suspend the execution of the
order, the judge had authority to limit the appointment, as he
did bj his order, in which it is thus expressed: 'And now, on.
this, the 15th day of June, 1907, in open court, it is ordered by
the court in the above cause that $100,000 be and the same is
hereby fixed as the amount of bond which the defendant shall
be required to give in order to supersede the judgment of the
court placing defendant's property in the hands of a receiver;
and it is further ordered that, upon the approval of the court
and the filing with the clerk by defendant of a good and sufficient bond conditioned as requited by law for said amount,
further proceedings herein be suspended pending appeal. But
this order sliall not affect or rescind the order heretofore entered
prohibiting and enjoining the defendant, its servants, officers,
agents, and attorneys, from removing any of its property or
assets beyond the limits of the State of Texas; but said injunction shall remain in full force and effect pending the appeal from
the order appointing a receiver herein.' We do not, however,
intimate a doubt upon the proposition, which we have asserted,
that the appeal, by the filing of the bonds by the defendant in
that court, suspended the operation of the order appointing the
receiver until the final decision of the case."
The Supreme Court of Texas has therefore decided in this case

PALMER v. TEXAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as we think it had held in its former decisions, cited in the opinion of Judge Shelby, speaking for the Court of Appeals in this
case, that the effect of the appeal and bond was merely to suspend the order appointing the receiver pending the determination of the appeal.
In this attitude of affairs had the Circuit Court of the United
States authority to take possession of the property under the
bill filed in that court for the appointment of a receiver?
We think the law of this court is well established to .be that
jurisdiction over the property was acquired by the state courts
when the receiver'was appointed, the judicial process served,
and the receiver duly qualified, although the state receiver had
not taken actual possession of the property. This principle was
recognized in Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Lake Street Electric
Rwy. Co., 177 U. S. 51, 61, in which this court said:
"The possession of the res vests the court which has first acquired jurisdiction with the power to hear and determine all
controversies relating thereto, and, for the time being, disables
other courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction from exercising like
power. This rule is essential to the orderly administration of
justice, and to prevent unseemly conflicts between courts whose
jurisdictions embrace the same subjects and persons. Nor -is
this rule restricted in its application to cases where property
has been actually seized under judicial process before a second
suit is instituted in another court, but it often applies as well
where suits are brought to enforce liens against specific property, to marshal assets, to administer trust or liquidate insolvent
estates, and in suits of a similar nature where, in the progress of
the litigation, the court may be compelled to assume the possession and control of the property to be affected. The rule has
been declared to be of especial importance in its application to
Federal and state courts. Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612; Freeman
v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256; Central
National Bank v. Stevens, 169 U. S. 432; Harkraderv.. Wadley,
172.U. S.148."
If this rule is not applied, a court of competent jurisdiction,
VOL. ccx1-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

which by the law of its own procedure has acquired jurisdiction
of property, may find itself, as in this case, after final judgment
maintaining its right over the property, at the conclusion of the
litigation deprived of the subject-matter of the suit. Indeed,
this case would .be an' apt illustration 'of that situation. The
courts of Texas have sustained the right to the receivership,
and have held it was only suspended pending the appeal, but
when it comesto enforcing the right to administer the property,
if the Federal receivership is maintained the court of original
jurisdiction -finds itself stripped of the property and the same
being administered in another court, which acquired its dominion over the property after it had become subject to the
state jurisdiction.
- It is further contended that this case is controlled by the
principles laid down in Shields v. Coleman, 1&7 U. S. 168. But
in that case, before there was an attempt to appoint a receiver
and take possession of the property by the second proceeding,
the first receiver ha~d been discharged and the property restored
.to the owner, who had given a bond for the forthcoming of the
property to answer the judgment. In this case the receivership
had merely been suspended when the application was made to
the Federal court, and the~receiver's bond was: conditioned to
account for the rental value of the property pending the appeal.
• A special ground for the appointment of a receiver by the
Federal court, is said to exist in the danger that the WatersPierce Oil Company might be made the subject of prosecutions
and its officers interfered with or intimidated pending the appeal and while the receivership was in abeyance because of the
appeal from the order appointing him. When a similar contention was made in the Supreme Court of Texas in support of
the application of the State for the app 6 intment of a receiver in
that court, the Supreme Court of Txas said:
"If in the use of its property the Waters-Pierce Oil Company
thould violate the laws of the State 'during the pendency of its
appeal, it would be liable to prosecution and punishment in the
same manner as for acts done before the'trial of this case; and if

PALMER v. TEXAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the safety of the persons in charge of the property is'endangered
in any manner the courts are open to them to seek their protection where the jurisdiction has been lodged by the constitution of this State for such purposes. The trial court.has no less
power now to prevent. a violation of the law's of this State by
the conducting of the business of the Waters-Pierce Oil Company than it had before the trial." 106 S. W. Rep. 331.
It is submitted by the counsel for the petitioners that the
effect of the appointment of the receiver in the state court was
to violate the right of the Waters-Pierce Oil Company to carry
on its business of an interstate character. It is true that the
original proceedings which resulted in forfeiting the permit of
the Waters-Pierce Oil Company to do business in the State of
Texas resulted in a judgment forfeiting the permission theretofore given by the State, except the interstate business of the

company.
If the proceedings for the appointment of a receiver had been
sustained as merely in aid of the original judgment, and for the
purpose of carrying that into effect, there would have been cogency in this argument. It is to be remembered that the state
courts of Texas have sustained the proceedings for the appointment of a receiver (No. 360, ante, p, 112), not only under the act
of April 11, 1907, which makes special, provision for carrying
out judgments under the anti-trust laws of the State and for the
appointment of a receiver in such cases, but have maintained
as well the right of the courts of Texas to appoint the receiver
under the general statutes of the State of Texas (§ 3, art. 1465,
Sayles' Statutes), giving authority to apply in any court of competent jurisdiction in certain cases, among others, where a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or is in imminent
danger of .insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights. ,
The Texas courts have the. right to construe their own statutes, and their judgment in such matters is conclusive upon the
Federal courts. We have, therefore, a case where the appointment of a receiver has been sustained by the highest court of the
State under a general statute giving the right to appoint re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

ceivers in such cases and to take possession of the property of
the corporation in the State.
This statute was admittedly in force before the permit of the
Waters-Pierce Company to do business within the State of
Texas was granted. Under this statute, no less than the special
act of April 11, 1907, the courts of the State have held that the
receivership can be maintained under the procedure had in this
case, and that the appeal merely suspended the receivership.
In that view there is no unlawful interference with the rights of
the company to transact interstate commerce business.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that the courts of
Texas had not lost the jurisdiction which they had acquired by
the appointment of the receiver, and that the Federal court
ought not to have appointed a receiver to take possession of the
property. We think the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in
reversing the order of the Circuit Court appointing the receiver.
In that court the costs of the receivership were assessed against
Palmer, the original complainant. The receivership has gone
on pending the proceedings upon appeal and we are of opinion
that justice will be done if the costs of the receivership are paid
out of the fund realized in the Federal court, and it is so ordered;
otherwise the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CENTRAL STOCK YARDS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY..

No..51.

Argued December 10, 11, 1908.-Decided January 25, 1909.

A provision in the constitution of a State that a carrier must deliver its
cars to connecting carriers without providing adequate protection for
their return, or compensation for their use, amounts to a taking of
property without due process of law within the meaning of the Four-

