OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

cumstlnces of the case, was a separable controversy with Weldon and Fritzlen on one side and the bank on the other, and
it was therefore rightly the subject of removal. Without stopping to give the .reason for our conclusion, we also think it is
quite clear, within the ruling in Powers v. Chesapeake & 0. Ry.
Co., supra, that the second application to remove was made
in time.
While the views just expressed might justify granting the
motion to dismiss, yet in consequence of the character of the
question (Swafford v. Te'mpleton, 185 U. S. 487), instead of dismissing, our decree will be,
Affirmed.

MATTER OF DUNN.
APPLICATION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS AGAINST THE HONOR-'
ABLE EDWARD R. MEEK, DISTRICT JUDGE &C.

No. 10, Original.

Argued January 11, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

As a corporation created by act of Congress derives all its rights from
the law creating it, suits brought against it, on account of its action,
arise under the Constitution and laws of the United States and are
removable into the Federal court. Osborn v. Bank of United States,
9 Wheat. 738.
This court will judicially notice that a defendant corporation was incorporated by an act of Congress even though the petition fails so

to do.
The right to 'remove depends upon whether the suit could have been
brought originally in the Circuit Court of the United States. Cochran
v. Montgomery County, 199 U. S. 260.
Where the Circuit Court has jurisdiction by reason of the fact that the
defendant is a corporation created by anact of Congress, thejoinder
of other defendants, citizens of plaintiff's State does not prevent removal to the Circuit Court if there is no .separable controversy and all
the defendants unite in the petition.: the Federal character permeates
the entire case and affects all parties defendant.
When this court is called upon to exercise its own judgmeht, it will not
be controlled by decisions of state courts.

MATTER OF DUNN.
212 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Notwithstanding that it maintains.an office in another State, the defendant corporation which was organized under an act of Congress is
suable in the district designated by it as where its office is located
and in which its agent resides and its directors meet to affirm their
acts ,adopted in the other State.

The application of § 10 of the act of March 11, 1902, 32 Stat. 68, c. 183,
is not limited to local actions described in § 8 of the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470.
THis is an original application to this court for a rule, directed to the District Judge of the United States for the Northern District of Texas, directing him, and also the Circuit Court
of the United States for that district, to show cause why a
mandamus should not issue, commanding that judge and that
court, and each of them, to remand a certain action at law to
the District Court of Dallas County, Texas, and to desist from
exercising any further jurisdiction in the action, except the
entering of the order remanding it to the state court. Upon
such application a rule Was made by this court that the judge
and the court should show cause, in accordance therewith.
Upon service of the rule being made, a return has been duly
filed by the District Judge, acting for himself and as judge of
the Circuit Court.
In the papers used upon the application for the writ and in
the return of the District Judge made thereto the following
facts are set forth:
An action was brought in the state court. in the county of
Dallas, and State of Texas on the first day of August, 1907,
against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company and two individuals, C. W. Slayter and Carl Rasmussen, who were, respectively, engineer and fireman on the Texas and Pacific Railway, to recover damages for the negligent killing of J. J. Dunn,
the husband of one of the plaintiffs and the father of others.
The action was brought against the company and the individual
defendants jointly, and the petition in the state court alleged
that the plaintiffs resided in Dallas County, Texas, of which
county the plaintiffs were inhabitants and residents and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

the defendant the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, was a
corporation duly incorporated, with an office and local agent in
Dallas County, Texas; that the defendant Slayter was a resident and citizen and inhabitant of Harrison County, in said
State, and that the defendant Rasmussen was also a resident,
citizen and inhabitant of Harrison County, in the said State.
The' petition then alleged that Dunn was killed directly and approximately through the negligence, of the defendants, who
were guilty of negligence in permitting and causing the engine
and train' to run into, against and over the said Dunn and injuring him so that he was instantly killed. The petition then
averred certain particular acts of negligence on the part of the
defendants and sought to recover from them on account of such
negligent killing the sum of $85,000. All of the defendants were
duly served with process, and within the time required by law
they all joined in a petition to the state court to remove the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States forthe Northern
District of Texas (which included Dallas; County) and presented bonds for such removal. The ground for the removal
was alleged to be that the Texas and Pacific Railway Company
was a corporation. organized and existing under the laws of the
United States by virtue of "An act to incorporate the Texas
and Pacific Rail Road Company and to aid in the construction of
its road, and for other purposes," approved March 3, 1871, and
acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, by one of
which the name and style of the company was changed to the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company.- The petition alleged
that the matter in dispute in the case exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum of two thousand dollars, and that the
suit aroe under the laws of the United States, and more especially under the law of the United States constituting the charter
of the defendant and under which it was incorporated; that under the laws of the United States the Circuit Court of the.
United States for the Northern District of Texas had original
jurisdiction of the suit. To the granting of this application the
plaintiffs objected, among other things, upon -the ground that

MATTER OF DUNN.
212 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the plaintiffs had not the right, at the time of the commencement of the suit, to bring it in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Texas against either of the
defendants Slayter and Rasmussen, and that it appears, from
the plaintiff's petition in the case that it is not removable to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Texas at the instance of either of the individual defendants,
nor at the instance of the railway company; and that it also appears, from the defendant's own petition for the removal, that
the case is not removable to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern' District of Texas at the instance of
either the defendants Slayter, or Rasmussen, or even at the
instance of the defendant railway company, or of all of them
together.
The state court, while holding that the petition to remove to
a Federal court was in all respects regular, and that it was filed
in due time, and that a good and sufficient bond had been filed,
held that the petition did not show proper grounds for removal
of the suit, and the application for removal was denied.
Thereupon the defendants in the suit in the state court, on
January 13, 1908, filed in the office of the clerk of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Texas,
at Dallas, Texas, a copy of the record in that suit. Before any
other proceedings were had in the case in the Circuit Court of
the United States, and on the twentieth of January, 1908, the
plaintiffs filed in that court a motion to remand the case. While
expressly denying that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the
case, the plaintiffs moved the court to remand it, for the reason
that the suit did not properly involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of the court, because, as was
said, it did not appear from the record or from the defendant's
petition to remove the cause that any of the defendants were
inhabitants of the Northern District of Texas, and that there
was no denial by the defendants of plaintiffs' allegation that the
individual defendants Slayter and Rasmussen were inhabitants
of Harrison County, Texas, which county is in the Eastern Dis-

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

trict of Texas. It was also averred that it appeared upon the
face of the record that there was no separable controversy as to
either or any of the defendants. The plaintiffs further averred
that the railway company had its principal office in the City of
New York, in the Southern District of New York, and State of
New York, of which district it was an inhabitant, and that it
was not an inhabitant of the Northern District of Texas, and
could not be sued by the plaintiff in that district by reason of its
being a Federal corporation, hence it had not the right to remove the cause to the Federal court.
The defendants answered the petition to remand, and averred
that the railway company was a resident of and had its domicil
in the Northern District of Texas, and that the individual defendants were jointly sued with the railway company, a resident
of the District of Dallas. That no claim of separable controversy or diverse citizenship was made, but the application
to remove was based upon the existence of a Federal question
as to all of the defendants. That although the plaintiffs' petition in the case simply alleged that the railway company was a
corporation duly incorporated, yet defindants alleged that it
had an office and local agent in Dallas County, Texas, and it
was urged that the court would take judicial notice of the Federal character of the defendant, notwithstanding the plaintiffs
had neglected to allege it; and that the record showed a general
liability charged by ,the plaintiffs as against all the defendants,
and that the Federal question as to all of such defendants was
thereby raised.
The motion made by the plaintiffs to remand the cause came
on to be heard by the District Judge holding the Circuit Court,
and was overruled and denied.
No further proceedings have been had in the case in the Circuit Court of the United States, and the case also stands upon
the docket of the state court, subject to call and disposition.
Upon application, the Circuit Court issued an injunction restraining the plaintiffs from continuing any proceedings in the
state court in the action.

MATTER OF DUNN.
212 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

A motion was made to dissolve the injunction, which was
denied. Madisonville &c. v. Saint Bernard &c., 196 U. S. 239.
The plaintiffs insist that mandamus is the only adequate
remedy under the facts stated, by whichSthey can obtain relief
and proceed with the trial of their cause in the state court.
Mr. C. W. Starling for petitioners:
If upon the face of the record as made in the state court'the
case was not removable, jurisdiction of the Circuit Court has
not attached. Crehore v. 0. & M. Ry. Co., 131 U. S. 240. There
is no preliminary question of law or of fact, as in Re Pollitz, 206
U. S. 323, or as in Ex parte Nebraska, 209 U. S. 436, which calls
for the exercise of judicial discretion of the Circuit Court. Ex
parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, controls.
Where only one of two defendants, if sued alone, has a right,
because of a Federal question affecting it, to remove a case,
there being another' or other defendants who if sued alone had
no.right of removal, such right does not exist because all defendants join in the application to remove.
A suit against an employ6 of a Federal corporation, arising
by reason of his conduct while in the line of duty, is not one
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
unless it appears from plaintiff's petition that the conduct in
question is Of such a character that it is in some manner defined
or affected by Federal law.
A suit against a Federal corporation and an individual employ6 instituted in good faith, arising by reason of their alleged
joint negligence, is not -removable to the Federal court on account of the Federal character of such corporation. Texas &
PacificRy. Co.' v. Huber, 92 S. W. Rep. 833; Eastin & Knox v.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 92 S. W. Rep. 838; Chicago, Rock Isd.
& P. Ry. v. Martin, 178 U. S. 245; Strawbridge v. Curtis, 3
Cranch, 267; Alabama Great Southern Ry. Co. v. Thompson,
200 U. S. 203; Blake v. McKim, 103 U. S. 336; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Ann Arbor Ry. Co., 178 U. S. 239; Gableman v.
Peoria Co., 179 U. S. 335; Hanrick v. Hanrick, 153 U. S. 192;

.380

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioners.

212 U. S.

Torrence v.Shedd, 144 U. S. 527; Whitcomb v. Smithson, 175
U. S. 635; L. & N. Co. v.Wangelin, 132 U. S.599; Albany G. S.
R. Co. v.Thompson, 200 U. S. 216.'

If the Texas & Pacic Railway Company is an inhabitant of
the Southern District of New York, suit against it cannot, except by its consent, be maintained in. the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Texas, provided jurisdiction is dependent
solely upon a Federal question, and therefore such company aS
defendant cannot remove a case from the state court to such
Circuit Court over the objection of the'plaintiffs. Ex parte
Wisner, 203 U. S.449; In re Ketsbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S.
219; Wolf v. C. 0. &G. Ry.Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 601;Sunderland
Bros. v.C., R. I. & P. Ry., 158 Fed.Rep.878.
The Tdxas & Pacific Railway Company is an inhabitant of
the Southern District of New York, and not of the Northern
District of Texas. Galveston, H. & S. A. R.Co. v. Gonzales, 151
U. S. 507; Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S.144; Orange
Nat.. Bank v. Craven, 7 Fed. Rep. 149; Bank v. Deveaux, 5
Cranch, 66; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Amato, 144 U. S.465;
U. P. Ry. Co. v.Hari's, 158 U. S.326; Wolf v.C. 0. & G. Ry.,
133 Fed. Rep. 601.
Applying the rule governing citizenship of state corporations,
which is that they are presumed to be citizens of the State in
which they are incorporated, and of the district in which their
principal office is located, the citizenship and inhabitancy of
this railwaf company should be presumed to be. where it keeps
open its books for subscription to its capital stock and-where
its stockholders meet pursuant to the by-laws and transact
their business. Texas &Pac. Ry.Co. v. Comission, 162 U. S.
197; St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co. v. James, 161U. S.562; Patch v.
Wabash Ry., 207 U. S.277; Memphis & C.'R. Co. v. Alabama,
107-U..S. 581'.

As the individual defendants are shown by the record to be
inhabitants of the Eastern District of Texas, plaintiffs could not
haye sued thenh jointly with the railway company inthe Northern District of Texas; they did not have the right to remove or

MATTER OF DUNN.
212 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

to join in'the petition to remove the cause to the Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Texas. Greeley v. Lowe, 155
U. S. 72.
Although a suit against a Federal corporation is primafacie
a suit arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, so as"to confer jurisdiction thereof upon the Circuit
Court, it may be shown by a proper pleading, challenging the
jurisdiction, that such suit does not involve a substantial controversy of this character,, and if such pleading is interposed,
before jurisdiction is assented to by such proceedings as practically admit that the suit does involve a substantial controversy of this character, and it then appears that there is no such
substantial controversy, the case should be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction. See opinion of Chief Justice Marshall in Osborn
v. Bank, 9 Wheaton, 827; and see also U. P. Ry. Co. v. Meyers,
115 U. S. 1; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cody, 166 U. S. 606;
St. J.'& G. I. Ry. Co. V. Steele, 167 U. S. 659.
Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. John F. Dillon and Mr.
W. L. Hall were on the, brief, for respondent:
The removal of this cause to the Federal court was in exact
accordance with the provisions of the act of March 3d, 1887,
as corrected by the act of August 13th, 1888. Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S'. 593; Pacific Railroad Removal Cases,
115 U. S. 1; Oregon Short Line &c. Ry. v. Skottowe, 162 U. S.
490; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cody, 166 U. S. 606; Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co..v. Barrett, 166 U. S. 617; Smith v. Union.Pacific
Ry., 2 Dillon, 278; Bank of United States v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch,
61; Bank v. Martin,5 Pet. 479; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738;
Curtin v.. Union PacificR. R., 3 Dillon, Circuit C6urt, Rep. 366.
The action does nbt cease to be one arising under the laws of
the United States because other parties are sued jointly with
the Texas & Pacific Railway. Fisk v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.
et al., 8 Blatchford, 243; Landers v. Feltonet al., 73 Fed: Rep.
311; Lund v. Chicago, R. I. & Pac. R. R. et al., 78 Fed. Rep. 385;
Martin v. St. L. S. W. Ry. et al., 134 Fed. Rep, 134.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondent.

212 U. S.

Relator's contention that the suit could not originally have
been maintained against the Texas & Pacific in the Northern
District of Texas and against Slayter and Rasmussen is not
well founded.
Under the first section of its charter the right to sue and the
obligation to submit to suit in any court of law or, equity within
the United States is expressly provided for therein, and the
charter was abcepted by it, subject to that obligation. The
right to sue it in the United States Circuit Court in the Northern
District of Texas would not be dependent upon its consent, but
upon the fact whether it was doing business within that dis:
trict, and had an agent there upon whom service could properly
be made. It-such conditions existed, then it could be pfoperly
-served with process, and when so served the Circuit Court
would have jurisdiction over it under § 1 of its charter, and the
principle of the' following cases. Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French,
18 How. 404; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 98; Fitzgerald Co. v.
Fitzgerald, 137 U. S. 98; Mexican Central Ry. Co. v. Pinkney,
149 U. S. 194; in re Hohorst,; 150 U. S. 653.
The fact that the individual defendants, S1ayter and Rasmussen, were residents of the Eastern District of Texas, under
§ 10 of the act of 1902, would not interfere withgetting service
upon them, because the clauses of § 1, of the act of March 3,
1887, regulative'of the exercise ofthe jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, and limiting the right to suit in the Federal courts to the
district in which the defendant is an inhabitant, Would not have
application to these persons in that case, for the reason that
special provision is made in the subsequent act of 1902 for
service of writs in the different -districts into which the State of
Texas is divided. If the plaintiff saw fit to sue the Texas & Pacific RailWay Company, in the Northern District where service
could be had upon it, and join with that company, Slayter and
Rasmussen, the clerk of that court would have the right to issue
.writs for the other defendants to the other districts, and'thus,
that feature of the, objection to the' original jurisdiction of this
case in this Northern District of Texas is entirely eliminated.

MATTER OF DUNN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, .after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is agreed by all that there is in this case no separable controversy, and the important question is whether, upon the
facts stated, a removal can be ordered, notwithstanding the
individual 'defendants were made parties to the suit, and were
not residents or inhabitants of the. Northern District of Texas
when sued.
The question arises under the act of Congress of 1888, relative
to the removal of cases from state to Federal courts. 25 Stat.
433, chap. 866. This act, as its title shows, was passed for the
purpose of correcting the enrollment of the act approved
March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, chap. 373, which amended the act
approved March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, chap. 137. The first
clause of the first section of ,the act of 1888 gave to the Circuit
Courts of the United States "original cognizance,, concurrent
with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of two'
thousand dollars, and arising under the Constitution 6r laws of
the United States, or treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their authority.
"
The second section of the act provided "that any suit of a
civil nature, at law or in equity arising under the Constitution
or laws of the United States; or treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority, of which the Circuit Courts of the
United States are'given original jurisdiction by the preceding
section, which may now be pending, or which may hereafter
be brought; in any state court, may be removed by the defendant or defendants therein to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the proper district.

Y

If thequestion were as to the right to remove a case to the
Federal court where the sole defendant was a corporation
created by an act of Congress, there can be no dispute as to the
right of such a defendant to claim the removal. As the corpo-.

'384

'

,OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

ration derives all its rights from the law of Congress, a suit
brought against it on account of its action arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States. Osborn v. Bank of the
United -States, 9 Wheat. 738, 817, 828; Pacific Railroad Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1. See also act of incorporation of the
Texas & Pacific Railroad Company, 16 Stat., p. 573, c_ 122,
March 3, 1871, giving the right to the.corpor.tion (p. 574, § 1)
to sue and be sued in all the courts of law and equity within the
United States.
The right to remove, under the statute, depends upon.
whether the, suit could originally have been brought in the Circuit Court of the United States. Traction Company v. Mining
Company, 196 U. S. 239, 245; Cochran &c. v. Montgomery
County, •199' U S..260.
The question then is whether the United States Circuit Court
for the proper district (Northern District of Texas) would have
had jurisdiction of a suit commenced in that district, by the
plaintiffs against the railway company and the two individual
defendants. A suit against the company would, as we have
seen, be one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, and as the individual defendants resided in the State of
Texas (the same State-as the plaintiffs) the ground of jurisdiction of the Fedoral ourt as to them must be that by joining
all as defendants in a joint- action for the same wrong done by
all of them, the'plaintiffs thereby made the suit against the individual deffendants also one which arises under the Constitu-,
tion or laws of the United States.
The plaintiffs themselves have made the act of 'which they
complain a joint one, and, being one which arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States as to one of the defendants, it becomes so as to all, because it is joint. The Federal
character permeates the whole case, including the individual
which :plaindefendants as well as the corporation. The case
tiffs make in their. petition in the suit must determine the
character of the cause of action. Alabama Great Southern Rail-'
way v.. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206, 216. The acts of the 'indi-

MATTER OF DUNN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vidual defendants were not necessarily in and of themselves
inherently of a Federal nature.
In Landers v. Felton, 73 Fed. Rep. 311, the question arose
whether an action brought against the receiver of a United
States court, and others whQ were citizens of the same State
as that of the plaintiff, to establish a joint liability of all the defendants, was a suit arising under the laws or Constitution of
the United States. The court held that it was, saying:, "No
separate liability could be asserted against the receiver;i except
by virtue of the same laws. Therefore the joint liability of the
defendants with the receiver arises under the laws or Constitution of the United States. If the plaintiff wished to sue the
other defendants without joining the receiver, he had his election to do so, because the liability of joint tort feasors is also
several. He might, therefore, have maintained his action
against the resident defendants in a state court, without any
possibility of removal to a Federal court. He 6lected, however,
to join the resident defendants with a person against whom he
could establish no liability, in the capacity in which he sues
him, except by virtue of the laws of the United States. Therefore the jbint cause of action which he asserts against all the
defendants must find its sanction in the Federal statutes.
Hence,-the cause of action is removable. The state court was in
error in denying the petition of the receiver, and the motion
to remand is overruled."
In Lund v. Chicago &c. Railway'Co., 78 Fed. Rep. 385, a suit
was brought in the state court against that company, together
with the Union Pacific Railway Company and its receivers.
One was a state and the other a United States corporation.
The'Union Pacific, by its receivers, filed a petition for removal
of the cause, and a motion to remand was made, and it was
urged that the cause was not removable because the state corporation was joined with the Union Pacific, and that as to the'
state corporation no Federal law was involved, and it could
not remove the cause to the Federal court. The court held the
-defense was. not well taken; that the statute organizing the
V.OL. ccxi-25

OCTOBER TERM, i908.
Opinion of the Coiut.

212 U. S.

Union Pacific Railway necessarily involved a Federal law, and
as it was a joint cause of action it Was clear that the whole case
arose under the Federal law; that while a suit against the Rock
Island Company, the state corporation, could have been maintained without reference to the Federal laws, yet, as it was
sought to hold the Union Pacific Railway Company and its receivers jointly Wit the state company, then a new character
was given to the action and a new element was introduced, to
wit, the laws of the United States; therefore as it was necessary
in order to maintain the action against the defendants jointly
to invoke the Federal law, the ease was one arising under the
laws of the United States, and hence. the whole case was removable under the statute. In such case it was said the Federal
question affects all parties defendant in the suit, entitling it to
be removed where all the parties unite in the petition. Martin
v. St. Louis &c. Ry., 134 Fed. Rep. 134, is to same effect. And
see Fish v. The Union Pacific Railroad Company, 8 Blatch. 243,
per Circuit Justice Nelson and Judge Blatchford, opinion by
Justice Nelson, upon question of removal, where the case arises
out of the Constitutibn or laws of United States, although some
of the defendants could not themselves apply to remove it.
We are aware that a different view has been taken of the
rights of defendants, situated like those in this case by the Supreme Court of the State of Texas in Texas & Pacific &c. Co. v.
Huber, 100 Texas, 1; S. C., 92 S. W. Rep. 832 (May 2, 1906);
Eastin & Knox v. Texas &c. Co., 99 Texas, 654; 8. C., 92 S. W.
Rep. 838 (May 2, 1906); but as this is a case where we are called
upon to exercise our own judgment, we have come to a different conclusion, notwithstanding our great respect for the decisions of the courts of that State.
Although the plaintiffs in their original petition in the state
court state that the railway company was a corporation, duly
incorporated, with an office and local 'agent in Dallas County,
Texast.the' fact that the corporation- was incorporated by an
act of Congress will be noticed by the court, even without an
aVerment of that fact in the petition. Texas & PacificRy. Co.

MATTER OF DUNN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Cody, 166 U. S. 606, 610; Texas &c. Ry. v. Barrett, 166 U. S.
617.
In Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. Martin, 178 U. S. 245, the action was brought by the administrator of William Martin against
the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company (a
state corporation), Clark and others, and the receivers of the
Union Pacific Railway Company, in the District Court of Clay
County, Kansas, to recover damages for the death of decedent.
The Union Pacific Railway was a Federal corporation, and its
receivers were appointed by the Federal court. Application to
remove the cause to the Fideral cburt was made by the receivers of the Union Pacific, which application was not joined
in by the state corporafion, and the application was denied,
because all the defendants were charged with jointly causing
the death of plaintiff's intestate, and all did not join in the
petition for removal. The case was tried and judgment obtained for the plaintiff in the state court, and was taken on
error to the Supreme Court of Kansas and there affirmed. 57
Kansas, 437. In this court the Chief Justice, speaking for the
court, said: "Assuming that as to the receivers the case may be
said to have arisen under the Constitution and -laws of the
United States, the question is whether it was necessary for-the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company, defendant, to join in the application of its co-defendants, the receivers
of the Union Pacific Railway Company, to effect a removal to
the Circuit Court." Upon consideration of the removal statu.
tes it was held that it was necessary for the state corporation
to join in the application. Here all of the defendants have
joined, and, as we have seen, they are all under the circumstances able to assert and claim the right of removal of the
cause to a Federal court. It was held in the Martin case, supra,
that there was no separable controversy, and so failure of all
the defendants to join could not be excused.
Some further objections are taken to the right of plaintiffs to
maintain this suit in the Federal court, and therefore to the
right of the defendants to 'emove from a state court. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

objection is that the defendants Slayter and Rasmussen were
not residents in the Northern District of Texas, but, on the
contrary, were residents of the Eastern District, and consequently could not be sued in the former district; and also that
the railway company was not a resident of the State of Texas,
but was a resident of the Southern District of the State of New
York. Upon the latter question the facts on deposition before
the United States district judge in Texas showed that the company maintained an office in Dallas County, Texas, and that
the senior vice president lived in Dallas, and that for many
years the company had designated Dallas as its general office,
and that all the acts of the board of directors taken in New
York city are subsequently affirmed by the meeting of the
board at Dallas before they are considered effective. We are of
,opinion that the defendant company was liable to suit in the
Northern District.
By § 10 of the act of Congress entitled "An Act to divide the
State of Texas into four judicial districts," approved March 11,
1902, 32 Stat. 68, c. 183, provision is made for the service of
process against defendants, and if there be more than one defendant,-and they reside in different divisions of the district or
in different districts, the plaintiff can sue in either division or
in either district in which one or more of the defendants may
..reside, sending a duplicate writ or writs to the other defendant
or defendants, upon which the. clerk shall indorse that the writ
thus sent is a copy of a writ sued out of the court of the proper
division of said district.
Articles 1222 and 1223 of the Civil Stdtutes of Texas provide.'
for the service of process in suits against incorporated companies or foreign public or private corporations.
Under these various statutes the plaintiffs would have had
the right to sue the Texas and Pacific Railway Company in the
Northern District of Texas, because it was a resident of and
dding business in that district, and had an agent there upon
whom service could properly be made.
. The individual defendants Slayter and Rasmussen, being

BRADFORD v. MORRISON.
212 U. S

Syllabus.

residents of the Eastern District of Texas, could, under § 10 of
the act above mentioned, be served with duplicate writs, and so
the Circuit Court would obtain jurisdiction over4hem also.
We do'iot think that the tenth section of the act of 1902,
supra, should be limited so as to apply only to local actions of
the class described in § 8 of the act of 1875. 18 Stat. 470,
ch. 137. That section relates to. suits commenced to enforce
any legal or equitable lien or claim-to or to remove any incum-:
brance or cloud upon real or personal property in the district
where such'suit is brought. 'The first part of § 10 does not so
limit its application, while the latter part makes special provision for suits and actions affecting the title to. real estate,.
which directs that the action must be brought where such real
estate is in whole or in part situated.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of the United States
obtained jurisdiction by the proceedings for the removal of the
case to that court, and the rule to show cause is therefore discharged and the proceedings in this court to obtain a mandamus
are
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTI E HARLAN dissented.

BRADFORD v. MORRISON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE. TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 60. Argued January 7, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.
The title of a locator to a mining claim located under § 2322, Rev. Stat.,
is not only property, but property which, in addition to being sold,
transferred and mortgaged, is also capable of being inherited without infringing the title of the United States.
Under the laws of Arizona, in force at the time, real property upon which
a judgment was a lien included mining claims.

