SANTOS v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

The effect of the proof wherever made was not to confer title,
but simply to establish it, as already conferred by the decree,
if not by earlier law. The royal decree of February 13, 1894,
declaring forfeited titles that were capable of adjustment under
the decree of 1880, for which adjustment had not been sought
should not be,construed as a confiscation, but as the withdrawal
of a privilege. As a matter of fact, the applicant never was
disturbed. This same decree is quoted by the Court of Land
Registration for another recognition, of the common law prescription of thirty years as still running against alienable crown
land.
It will be perceived that the rights of the applicant under the
Spanish law present a problem not without difficulties for courts
of a different legal tradition. We have deemed it proper on
that account to notice the possible effect of the change of sovereignty and the act of Congress establishing the fundamental
principles now to be observed. Upon a consideration of the
whole case we are of opinion that law and justice require that
the applicant should be granted what he seeks, and should not
be deprived of what,, by the practice and belief of those among
whom he lived, was his property, through a refined interpretation of an almost forgotten law of Spain.
Judgment reversed.

SANTOS v. HOLY ROMAN CATHOLIC AND APOSTOLIC
CHURCH, PARISH OF TAMBOBONG.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 73.

Submitted January 13, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

A finding by the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands that the parties
sued as defendants do not constitute a judicial entity such as a
colradia, is not' open to rebxaminatio'n in this court.

Where the reasons of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands for
refusing to grant a new trial on ground of newly discovered evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

do not appear, their sufficiency must be presumed and the question
is not open in this court.
The Roman Catholic Church has a legal personality and the capacity
to hold property in the insular possessions of the United States, and
this right is not affected by the fact that the property was acquired
by gift or from the public funds.

Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church,

210 U. S. 296.
TiE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles F. Consaul, Mr.. George F. Pollock and Mr.
Frank B. Ingersoll for plaintiffs in error.
No counsel appeared, nor was any brief filed, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought- by the defendants in error to recover a chapel. They obtained a judgment which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, and then was
brought here by writ of error. The errors assigned are that
the court denied the existence of a cofradia alleged by the answer to own the property, and held that it was not a "judicial
entity," and that it was not entitled to possession; that the
court held that the Roman Catholic Church was entitled to the
possession of the property; that it denied a motion for a new
trial; and that it ordered the defendants to deliver possession
to the plaintiffs. The facts found, so far as material, are that
the chapel always was devoted to the ceremonies and worship
of the Roman Catholic Church until December, 1902, when it
was taken possession of by members of an Aglipasyan community,
who have kept possession and worshipped there up to the present time; that it was built, and, as we gather, the lot on which
it stands acquired, from gifts of the residents of the barrio of
Concepcion, where the chapel is, these gifts having been intended to be for the uses of the Roman Catholic Church and

SANTOS v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the exclusive benefit of those who professed the Roman
Catholic religion; and that many of the benefactors still wish
the chapel to be devoted to the former worship and by the
present occupation are deprived of its use.
The finding that the existence of the cofradia is not proved is
not open to reexamination here, as only questions of law are
brought up. So as to the affirmance of the refusal to grant a
new trial on the ground of newly-discovered evidence. The
evidence may have been important, but the reasons for the refusal do not appear, and must be presumed to have been sufficient, as they very well may have been. The only questions
open are those raised by the decision that the Roman Catholic
Church is entitled to the possession of the property, and they
now have been answered by Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church,
210 U. S. 296. In that case, Barlin v. Ramirez, 7 Philippine, 41,
on the authority of which the present case was decided, is referred to with approval; the legal personality of the Roman
Church, and its capacity to hold property in our insular possessions, is recognized; and the fact that such property was acquired from gifts, even of public funds, is held not to affect the
absoluteness of its right. We think it unnecessary to repeat the
discussion. In this case the Roman Catholic Church appears
to have been in possession until ejected by the defendants
without right, and so far as the facts before this court go appears
actually to own the property concerned.
Judgment affirmed.
voL. ccxli-30

