HARTEN v. LOFFLER.
212 U. S.

.397

Statement of the Case.

erty from the lien of the judgment, but the same was in force
at the time of the issuing of the executtion. upon it and of the
sale under such execution.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona was right,
and is

Affirmed.

HARTEN v. LOFFLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.'

No. 91.

Argued January 26, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

In an action by the vendee for damages, although the amount recovered
is less than $5,000, if the vendor not only disputes the judgment but
claims more than $5,000 as balance of purchase money this court has
jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia.
Where its meaning is not clear, a contract is to be 'construed in the
light of circumstances surrounding the parties when the contract was
made and a practical interpretation given thereto. Lowber v. Bangs,
2 Wall. 728.
"About" is a relative, and frequently ambiguous, term, the precise
meaning of which is affected by circumstances; and oral evidence is
not inconsistent with, or contradictory of, a written contract which
simply identifies property as shown on a diagram annexed thereto,
and is admissible to show the intent of the parties in the light of the
surrounding circumstances.
Where the vendee sues for breach of a contract to sell real estate and
the benefit of the business and goodwill as well, the measure of damages is the differences between the purchase price and the market
value at the time of the contract and evidence as to the value of each
item is admissible.
A hypothetical question of value of property is not admissible when
there is no evidence to support the hypothesis on which it is based.
29 App. D. C. 490, affirmed.
THE defendant in error, hereafter called th6 plaintiff, commenced this action against the plaintiff in error, hereafter
called the defendant, in the Supreme Court of the District of

OCTOBER TEAM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

Columbia to recover damages for the refusal of the defendant
to perform a written agreement made between the plaintiff and
the defendant and his wife, by which the defendant agreed to
convey certain premises on Brightwood avenue, or Seventh
street, in the District of Columbia, to the plaintiff for the sum
of $12,000.
The defendant denied the alleged agreement, and also
pleaded a set-off to recover $20,000 damages against the plaintiff for the plaintiff's own failure to perform the agreement set
up by defendant.
The plaintiff replied, denying the defendant's averments as
to set-off, and the latter joined issue on plaintiff's replication.
A trial was had before a jury and terminated in a verdict for
the plaintiff for $1,250, with interest on $250 from April 27,
1905, upon which judgment was entered.
Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District, that
court affirmed the judgment (29 App. D. C. 490), and the defendant -sued out a writ of error from this court.
The material facts in the case are as follows:
The defendant, on the twenty-seventh of April, 1905, was
the owner of a lot or parcel of land on Brightwood avenue, or
Seventh street, a half mile north of Brightwood in the District
of Columbia. On the date named the parties entered into an
agreement, and the defendant and his wife signed the same,
as follows:
"For and in consideration of the sum of twelve thousand
dollars, two hundred and fifty dollars whereof is hereby acknowledged, I hereby agree to sell to Ernest Loffier the property, good will, license and fixtures, located on Brightwood
avenue near Battle Ground Cemetery, fronting on Brightwood
avenue about sixty feet, with a depth of about two hundred
feet, title and transfer of license guaranteed or deposit refunded.
I agree to use my best efforts to secure the signers for the transfer of baid license and to give said Liffler a clear title to all of
above property."
To understand more readily the applicability of the. evidence

HARTEN v. LOFFLER.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

a diagram showing the shape of the lot and the location of the
buildings is given below.

2

0
BILLIARD
ROOM
KIT 51IEN

SBAR
ROOM

ROOM

STOCK
ROOM

BRIGHTWOOD AVE. OR SEVENTH ST.

The principal questions on the trial arose in regard to the
admission and exclusion of certain evidence by parol and upon
exceptions taken to the charge.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals was delivered by the

. OCTOBER TERM, 1908.'
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

late Mr. Justice McComas, who made a synopsis of the facts
and evidence, which is herewith inserted:
"The defendant owned a parcel of land on Brightwood
avenue, or Seventh street road, a half mile north of Brightwood in this District. He there kept a saloon and. country
tavern in a building erected on a lot triangular in shape, fronting eighty-five feet on Seventh street road. As appears in the
diagram the front line and the south line of the triangle formed
a rectangle, and the south line was two hundred and twentyfour feet long. The hypothenuse, of north line, was two hundred and thirty-nine and a half feet long. The improvements
fronted on the Seventh street road and comprised a frame
building standing fifty-one and a half feet along the road. At
the northeast comer was a small lot of ground with a front of
thirteen and a half feet, the house line running back at right
angles nearly joined the north line, making this lot a triangle.
On the south side was a driveway about twenty feet wide.
At the south end of the building was a bar-room and adjoining it on the north was a serving room for guests. A hallway
came next on the north and on the north side of the hall was
a store room for liquors, above which on the second story was
a ball room. The remaining upper rooms of the house were
used as living rooms for the family of the defendant. Back of
the store room on the ground floor on the north line of the
premises was a kitchen, and in the rear of that on the same
north line was a billiard room for guests. In the rear of these
structures, and all adjoining the north line, were various
stables, sheds, and out-houses.
"Beginning at the south line of this parcel of land, if one
measured sixty feet northivard on the front line,
the end of the
sixty foot line was at 4 point in the hall doorway near the middle thereof, and only the south forty feet of -the building would
be included within the sixty feet while eleven and a half feet
of the north end of the building and a small triangular lot before described would be excluded. All the premises were occupied and used in their entirety by the defendant.

HARTEN v. LWFFLER.
212 U. S.

Statement of the Cas.

"From the record, it appears the defendant told Charles D.
Hood, a liquor dealer, that he wished to sell his property and
business for twelve thousand dollars; that he wished to get out
of the neighborhood because he could not do business there
and the protests made it difficult to renew his license. Hood
communicated this information to the plaintiff, who sent his
agent to purchase the property. This man introduced himself
as a real estate agent to the defendant and asked him what he
wanted for the place, and the defendant said he would take
twelve thousand dollars for the property, fixtures, and everything excepting pool tables and stock. Later this agent called
with the plaintiff, who came as a prospective purchaser, and
the defendant with knowledge of that conducted the plaintiff
over the premises, showing him over the whole building, upstairs and downstairs and into the kitchen and billiard room.
"Several days later, on April 27, 1905, after the plaintiff
had sold his saloon in Georgetown, he notified the defendant
that he would visit him to 'make the deal,' and the two parties
and this agent met on the premises the same afternoon. The
price asked by the defendant was finally agreed to and it was
agreed that Mr. Richard, a wholesale liquor dealer, a friend
of both parties, who had helped the plaintiff to sell his saloon
and had driven out with him, should write the agreement.
"During these negotiations, the defendant did not suggest
that he did not intend to sell the whole premises or, that he
intended to reserve any portion, but said that the stock of
liquors and the pool or billiard tables were not included in the
sale. Richard wrote the following paper, which was signed by
the defendant and his wife.
[It is the agreement .above set forth.]
"Richard testified when he had written as far as 'license-fixtures located on Brightwood avenue near Battle Ground
Cemetery' he turned and asked, 'what is the size of this place,'
and there followed a discussion between the two Loffiers, Harten and himself. One of the party suggested it was about sixty
feet and Harten said 'that is about right,' and Richard so wrote
VOL. ccxIi-2Q

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

it. Nothing was said by Harten or by Lffler to indicate that
only a portion of the premises was to be sold and it was understood that the whole of the premises was covered by the description.
"The .plaintiff testified that in this discussion the defendant
stated that the lot had about sixty feet front and about two
hundred feet in depth; that when Richard was writing the
contract 'he asked Mr. Harten how much ground was in this
place. We all were guessing and Mr. Harten said put it down
about sixty feet front, and about two hundred feet deep, and
Mr. Richard said all right, we put it down that way.' That
when the paper had been prepared, Harten called to Mrs. Harten and said to her 'I want you to sign this contract, I sold the
place.' Before the contract was prepared, and while they were
discussing the price, the defendant said to the plaintiff 'I will
sell everything here.'
"Andrew Lbffler, the agent, testified that when we came
down to describe the place, 'Harten told him it was described
in the license. Harten brought the .license. The description
in the license is opposite 'Battle Ground Cemetery.' Richard
put that down and said we should describe the property a
little plainer; he said, 'what is the square number or what is
the number of the lot;' Harten said, 'there is no number to the
lot;' he did not know the number of the square, so he said,
'we had better put down the number of feet you have here.'
Somebody asked me what my idea was, and I said about sixty
feet; I looked out of the window to size it up; Mr. L6ffler made
a guess, and we all made a guess. Harten said put it down
about sixty feet; we estimated about sixty feet'front and about
two hundred feet deep.
"Peter J.. May testified that he met the plaintiff and his wife
at Harten's place on the day after the sale and Harten stated
that LUffler had bought him out, that he had sold the whole
place, everything, ground and all, and was going. out of business,
and this witness and Mrs. Loffler were shown through the house
by Harten. who then described how she was going to fix up the

HARTEN v. LOFFLER.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

house, and Harten conducted them into many rooms, including the liquor store room and the ball room above it. Later,
the plaintiff asked the defendant -to indorse the license paper
and sign the application for its transfer. The plaintiff or his
agent or attorney frequently repeated this request. Harten
always refused to sign, at one time saying he did not want
family trouble. Finally, when urged by the plaintiff and his
attorney and being charged with attempting to back out of
his agreement, the defendant replied 'I won't sign a damn
thing.'
"Subsequently the plaintiff tendered to the defendant the
purchase money and a deed of the premises, and without reading it the defendant: refused to sign, and immediately after
offered to the agent, Lffler, a hundred dollars 'to get me out
of this.'
Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Leoh.Tobriner, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JusTIcE* PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error objects that this court is without
jurisdiction on the ground of the amount in controversy not
being sufficient. Taking the pleadings, the evidence given,
and the verdict of the jury,, it would seem that the amount in
dispute is sufficient to give this court jurisdiction. In his setoff the defendant claims the unpaid balance of the purchase
price, for the property agreed upon, which unpaid balance
amounted to $11,750, and he claims that sum now, and he also
claims that the amount of the judgment against him of $1,250
is erroneous, and that a reversal of this judgment will permit
him to claim before a jury on another trial the full amount of
his set-off, or at least the balance due for the purchase price.
We think the cburt has jurisdiction. Block v. Darling, 140
U. S. 234; Bucksff v. Russell & Co., 151 U. S. 626.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

The objection made by the defendant to the oral evidence
goes to its being contradictory to or inconsistent with the written agreement. The defendant maintains that the admission
of such evidence was contrary to the rule on that subject.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the evidence was
properly admitted. The tendency and purpose of the whole
evidence were simply to show the circumstances existing at
the time when the contract in question was executed, and to
identify the premises, and to give point and meaning to the
word "about" as contained in the contract. "About" is a
relative and frequently ambiguous term, and its precise meaning is affected by circumstances existing when the word is used
in a contract, and known to and recognized by the parties.
The evidence was not inconsistent with, nor did it contradict,
the written contract, but when a diagram of the premises is
shown it plainly appears that the word "about," with reference
to the width of the premises on Brightwood avenue, left an
ambiguity in the contract which it was perfectly .proper to
explain by oral evidence. The oral evidence identified the
premises and gave point and certainty to the meaning of the
word. In Lowber v. Bangs, 2 Wall. 728, 737, it was said that
contracts where their meaning is not clear are to be construed
in the light of the circumstances surrounding the parties When
they were made, and the practical interpretation which they
-by their conduct have given to the provisions in controversy.
Taking these existing circumstances and that interpretation
into consideration, it is seen that the identification of the premises is made clear by the oral evidence, and it is also plain that
the word "about" must extend the sixty-feet limit to the north
end of the premises. It never could have been the idea of
either party that the building should, be cut in two, and certainly no language was used which set forth such unusual
meaning. Cases are almost innumerable upon the subject of.
oral evidence in connection with written instruments, but we
are satisfied *the rule was not infringed)by the introduction of
such evidence in this case. The opinion of the Court of Ap-

HARTEN. v. LbFFLER.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

peals is satisfactory and nothing more need be added upon the
subject.
• Fault is found with the admission of evidence in regard to,
the measure of damages. The rule was correctly stated by
the trial court to be the difference between the iurchase price
and the market value at the time of the -contract of ale. In
the opinion of the Court of Appeals it was stated that as the
contract of purchase intended not only. the real estate, but
also the benefit of the. license, the business and the good will,
it was proper to give evidence of the value of each of them, and
this was the purpose of certain evidence, which was properly
,admitted.
The exclusion of the evidence of the witness-Montague when
called by the defendant with reference to the value of the property was not error, because there was absolutely no evidence
whatever to support the hypothesis stated in the question.
The question assumed as a fact that the business amounted
to $150 or $200 a week, and that the realty was worth only
$4,000 wiih the improvements, the land and buildings on it,
and then the question was put, "What would'be a fair price
to pay for that land with the improvements and fixtures, and
the liquor license and good will of the business, but not including any of the stock in trade?" The question assumed the
value of the greater portion of the property sold.
We have carefully looked through the record and find that
the other exceptions taken by the plaintiff in error upon the
trial are plainly unimportant and immaterial.
-

The judgment must be

Affirmed.

