. 516

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

departure from such rate, which would include rates either
published or participated in, shall be deemed to be an offense
.under the act. This part of the first section of the Elkins act
was evidently enacted with a view to meeting the very situation
developed in this case, wherein a joint rate has been established
binding upon all who are parties thereto, and has been filed by.
one of the participating carriers.
We think the learned judge was in error in holding that offenses of the character charged in. this indictment could be
prose uted only as against the carrier actually filing and publishing the joint rate. The judgment.of the Circuit Court is
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL- FROM t'HE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 82.

Argued January 20, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

A commissioned officer in the Navy can waive the provisions of art. 60
of § 1624, Rev. Stat., and allow proceedings of a court 'of inquiry to
be evidence on a court-martial the sentence of which may extend to
his dismissal; Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65; and, where, at the
request of such an officer, the Secretary of the Navy convenes a courtmartial to try him on matter which had already been the subject of a
court of inquiry, on condition that the proceedings of such court of
inquiry be evidence, each party having the privilege, however, of
introducing other evidence, the accused is not deprived of any substantial right so that the sentence of the court-martial is invalidated.
Reduction by the President of the United States of the dismissal of an
officer of the Navy from the service to reduction to one-half sea pay
for five years is a mitigation of the sentence within the meaning of
art. 54 of § 1624, Rev.. Stat. Quxwre, whether art. 54 of § 1624 applies to the action of the President.
Civil courts are not courts of error to review sentences of legally or-

'MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ganized courts-martial having jurisdiction of the person of the accused and of the offense.

42 Ct. Cl. 157, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. E. Richardson, with whom. Mr. J. H. Ralston and
Mr. F. L. Siddons were on the brief, for appellant.,
Mr. John Q. Thompson, with Whom Mr. George M. Anderson
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This appeal is prosecuted to reverse the judgment of the
Court of Claims dismissing the petition of Dennis W. Mullan,
appellant. Full findings of facts were made in the Court of
Claims, and upon consideration the claim of the petitioner was
dismissed. 42 Ct. of Cl. 157. From the findings of fact made
by the court it appears that Dennis W. Mullan was a commander, serving as commandant, at the navy yard at Pensacola, ,where he served from July- 30, 1896, till March 7,:.1897.
Charges having been preferred against him, at his request a
court of inquiry was convened to investigate them. The court
of inqfiiry, after a full investigation and trial, reported adversely to the appellant. At that time he was subject to examination for promotion to the grade of captain, and unless he
could acquit himself of the charges preferred he would be liable
under § 1447 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (act
of August 5, 1882, c. 391, 22 Stat. 286) to be discharged from
the service without more than one year's pay. In this condition of affairs the appellant made application to the Secretary
of the Navy for a court-martial to try him upon the charges to
be formulated from the findings of the court of inquiry. Correspondence ensued between the Secretary of the Navy and the
appellant, fully set forth in the report of this case in the Court
of Claims. 42 Ct. Cl. 159 et seq. The Secretary of the Navy,
in answer to appellant's request, proposed to call a court-martial

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

at Washington for trial upon such charges as the Department
might designate, provided the record of the court of inquiry
should be admitted as evidence, each party to have the privilege of introducing other evidence. The appellant advised the
Secretary that he would agree to such court-martial, it being,
understood that the privilege of introducing other witnesses
should embrace the right to recall witnesses who had previously
testified before the court of inquiry, and to take depositions
upon written interrogatories,. The Secretary of the Navy refused to permit the recalling of witnesses who had testified
before the court of inquiry, or to permit testimony to be taken
byinterrogatories, but permitted the calling of other witnesses.
Thereupon the appellant notified the Department that he acceded to the conditions stated in the Secretary's letter. The
court-martial was ordered by the Secretary of the Navy to try
the appellant upon the charges of drunkenness and drunkenness on duty. The evidence submitted at the court-martial
consisted of the records of the court of inquiry, together with
one witness called in addition thereto. The court-martial found
the appellant guilty of both charges and sentenced him to be
dismissed from the Navy; on June 30, 1897, the Secretary of the
Navy approved this sentence. The same was submitted to the
President, who, on July 8, 1897, made the following order in
the premises.
"The sentence in the foregoing case of Commander Dennis
W. Mullan, U. S. Navy, is confirmed, but is mitigated as follows: To be reduced in rank, so that his name shall be placed
at the foot of the list of commanders in the Navy; and to be
suspended from rank and duty, on one-half sea pay, for a period
of five years, during which time he shall retain his place at the
foot of said list."
The appellant protested against the legality of the proceedings. At the trial before the court-martial no objection was
offered by the appellant or his attorneys to the introduction of
the evidence. On July 11, 1901, the unexpired period of the
sentence was remitted by order of the President. The suit was

MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

.519

Opinion of the Court.

begun in the Court of Claim to recover the difference between
"one-half sea pay" and "waiting orders pay," from July 8,
1897, when the President's order was made, as above recited,
and July 11, 1901, when the President remitted the unexpired
period of the sentence, the amount claimed being the sun of
$3,934.14.
It is contended by the appellant that the proceedings of the
court-martial are null and void because of the manner in which
that court was convened, upon requirement as a. condition
precedent that the appellant should submit to the introduction
of the record of the testimony introduced before the court of
inquiry, with the right to call additional witnesses, as hereinbefore stated. This contention is based upon art. 60 of § 1624
of-the Revised Statutes, which provides as follows:
"ART. 60. The proceedings of courts of inquiry shall be. authenticated by the signature of the president of the court and
of the judge advocate, and shall, in all cases not capital, nor
extending to the dismissal of a commissioned or warrant officer,
be evidence before a court-martial, provided oral testimony
cannot be obtained."
It is contended that inasmuch as this case did not come
within the statutory' provisions permitting the evidence before
a court-martial to be used, as such right is limited to cases not
extending to the dismissal of a commissioned or warrant officer, and a capital case, the court-martial was not properly
organized, and it8 proceedings were null and void. It is insisted that this provision of the law is to enable the accused, in
cases of this character, to meet his witnesses face to face, and is
analogous to the constitutional right in criminal cases; and,
being an enactment for the benefit of the service and the protection of those engaged therein, the appellant could not waive
its provisions. But we are of opinion that this was a right
which he .might waive. In Schick v. United States, 195 U. S.
65, it was held that a party might, in the case then before the
court, waive the right to a trial by jury, and in the course of the
opinion Mr. Justice Brewer, speaking for the court, said. (p. 71):

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

"Article six of the amendments, as we have seen, gives the
accused a right to a trial by jury. But. the same article gives
him the further right to be confronted with the witnesses against
him, and to have the assistance of counsel. Is it possible that
an accused cannot admit and be bound by the admission that a
witness not present would testify to certain facts? Can it be
that if he does not wish the assistance of counsel, and waives it,
the trial is invalid? It seems only necessary to ask these questions to answer them. When there is no constitutional nor
statutory mandate, and no public policy prohibiting, an accused may waive any privilege which he is given the right to
'enjoy."
The Secretary of the Navy was under no legal obligation to
call a court-martial to inquire into the charges, made against
the accused. The court of inquiry was invoked, as was the
court-martial, at the instance of the appellant. He had had a
full trial before the court of inquiry, in which the record disclosed a-large number of witnesses were called; he was represented by counsel; he was present in person; he had a full
opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses and to make a defense. At the court-martial he was permitted to introduce additional witnesses, and had the benefit of one witness whose
testimony was in his favor. We think there was nothing in the
manner in which the court-martial was organized which deprived the accused of a substantial right in such manner as to
oust its jurisdiction in the premises. The civil courts are not
courts, of error to review the proceedings and sentences of
courts-martial where they are legally organized and have jurisdiction of the offense and of the person of the accused, and have
complied with the statutory requirements governing their proceedings. Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65; Ex parte Reed, 100
U. S. 13; Swaim v. United States, 165 U. S. 553.
It is contended that the order of July 18, 1897, in which the
President undertook to mitigate the sentence of the appellant,
dismissal from the Navy, to reduction to one-half sea pay for
the period of five years, with reduction in rank and suspension

MULLAN IV.UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

521

Opinion of the Court.

as stated, was illegal and unauthorized, because of art. 54,
§ 1624, of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which
provides:
"Every officer who is authorized to convene a general courtmartial shall have power, on revision of its proceedings, to remit or mitigate, but not to commute, the senternce of any such
court which he is authorized to approve and confirm."
The Court of Claims was of opinion that this section did not
apply to the action of the President of the United States. If
it be conceded for this purpose that it is applicable to the President (§ 1624, arts. 38 and 53 of the Rev. Stats.), we are of the
opinion that the President's action did, in fact, mitigate the
previous sentence of the court-martial as approved by the
Secretary of the Navy. It may be conceded that there ,s a
technical difference between the commutation of a sentence
and the mitigation thereof. The first is a change of a punishment to which a person has been condemned into one less severe, substituting aless for a greater punishment by authority
of law. To mitigate a sentence is to reduce or lessen the
amount of the penalty or punishment. Bouvier's Law Dictionary, vol. 1, 374; lb. vol. 2, 428. When the President otherwise confirmed the sentence of the
Navy Department from absolute discharge from the Navy to
reduction in rank and duty for the period of five years on onehalf sea pay, he did what in terms he undertook to do, and by
the lessening of the severe penalty of dismissal from the Navy,
approved by the department, reduced and diminished, and
therefore mitigated, the sentence which he was authorized to
approve and confirm against the appellant, or mitigate in his
favor.
Judgment affirmed.

