OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

THOMAS v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL' APPEALS FOR THE STATE
OF TEXAS.
No. 6.

Argued November 8, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Where neither the constitutionality of the state statute, nor the interpretation thereof by the state court, is assailed, but the contention is
that negroes were excluded from the juries because of their race or
color, the question is one of fact, and the decision of the state court is
not reviewable by this court under § 709, Rev. Stat., in the absence of
such gross abuse as to amount to denial of due process of law.
Discrimination against the accused in the selection of the grand or petit
jury cannot be presumed from the mere fact that none of the jurors
were negroes or of African descent; and here it appears that a negro
was on the grand jury finding the indictment and negroes were on the
venire from which the trial jury was drawn, and nothing in the record indicates discrimination.
95 S. W. Rep. 1069, affirmed.
THOMAS was convicted of the murder of John Blair, and his
punishment fixed at death. Before arraignment and'trial he
filed his separate motions to quash the indictment and special
venire drawn in this cause, -which motions were sworn to, and
alleged that "because of the race prejudice and ill feeling against
the negroes in. Harris County, and against ihis defendant in
particular, on account of his color and race, and because of the
sentiment against placing negroes, or persons of color, or of
African descent, upon the grand juries and petit juries in said

county

...

the grand jury finding and returning the bill

of indictment against him herein was composed almost exclusively of white persons, there being not to exceed one negro,
or person of African descent, and of the same race and color of
this defendant upon said grand jury," It was also alleged that
"because of the race prejudice and ill feeling existing against

THOMAS v. TEXAS.
212 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the negroes or persons of African descent in Harris County,
and against this defendant;in particular, on account of his color
and race, there were no negroes or persons of African descent
upon the venire list of persons drawn to serve as jurors in this
cause, and that the list of jurors drawn was composed exclusively of white persons, all negroes or persons of African descent
having been intentionally excluded and 'left off of the special
venire or list of jurors drawn in this cause by the jury commission because of their race and color." It was further alleged
that one-fourth of the qualified jurors of Harris County were
negroes or persons of.African descent. By agreement and consent of the court evidence was heard upon the two motions at
the same time1 and considered by the court upon each, the
same as if said motions had been heard separately.
Upon considering the evidence on the hearing of said inotions, the same were each overruled by the court.
The case was taken on writ of error to the Court of Criminal
Appeals, the highest court of Texas for criminal cases, and the
conviction affirmed. The action of the trial court in overruling
the motions to quash was reviewed by the Court of Criminal
Appeals and the rulings sustained. 95 S. W. Rep. 1069. It was
then brought here on writ of error.
Mr. Noah Allen and Mr. Frederick S. Tyler for plaintiff in
error:
Whenever by any action, of a State, whether through its
legislature, courts, executive or administrative officers, all persons of the African race are excluded, solely because of race and
color, from serving as grand or petit jurors in the criminal
prosecution of a person of that race, the.equal protection of the
laws is denied to him, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Strauder v. West Virginia, 106 U. S. 303; Virginia v. Rives, 100
U. S.313; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S.344; Neal v. Delaware,
103 U. S.370; Gibson v.'Mississippi, 162 U. S.565; Carter v.
Texas, 177 U. S. 442; Martinv. Texas, 200 U. S., 316.
It is admitted that 'a-mixedjury, some of which shall be of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

the same race with the accused,. cannot be demanded as of right
in any -case, nor is a jury of that character guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment, Virginia v. Rives, supra; Neal v. Delaware, supra; Martin v. Texas, supra; but that the accused is
entitled to demand, under the Constitution of the United States,
that in organizing the grand jury, as well as impanelling the

petit jury, there shall be no exclusion of his race, and no discrimination against them because of their race or color, is con'elusively settled by the decisions. Virginia V. Rives, supra;
In re Wood, 140 U. S.278, 285; Martin v. Texas, supra; Farrow
v. State, 45 So. Rep. 619; Montgomery v. State, 45 So. Rep. 879.
Mr. Robert Vance Davidson, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, and Mr. JamesDuBose Walthall, for defendant in error:
The trial court having permitted plaintiff in error to introduce evidence and offer proof in support of his motion to quash
the indictment and special venire drawn in his case, and having
considered said evidence and overruled the motion upon the
ground that no discrimination against him was shown, and the
Court of Criminal Appeals, the highest court in Texas in criminal
cases, after a full review of the testimony, having decided that
the trial court acted properly in overruling said motion, such
ruling will not be disturbed by the Supreme Court of the United
.States upon writ of error. Barrington v. Missouri, 205 U. S.
484; Allen v. State, 70 S. W, Rep. 85; Monroe v. State, 23 Texas,
210; Nash V. State, 2 Texas App. 362; Hawkins v. State, 27
Texas App. 273; Shaw v. State, 32 Texas Cr. Rep. 155.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE• FULLER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not contended that the laws of Texas, under which grand
and petit juries are selected, are in themselves discriminating.
and in violation of the Constitution of the United States. It is
admitted by plaintiff in error that neither the constitution nor
statutes of Texas prescribed any rule for, or mode of procedure.

THOMAS v. TEXAS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in, the trial of criminal cases which is not equally applicable to
all citizens of the United States and to all persons within the
jurisdiction of the State without regard to race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Nor is it contended that the constitution and laws of the State had, at the time this prosecution
was instituted, been so interpreted by the courts of Texas as to
prevent the enforcement of rights secured equally to all citizens
of the United States without regard to race or color. The only
contention was that the jury commissioners in the selection of
the grand and petit juries who returned the indictment and
tried plaintiff in error did in fact exclude therefrom negroes or
persons of African descent, because of their race and color.
This was a question of fact, and the ordinary rule is that questions of fact will not be reviewed by this court on writs of error
to state courts.
In the case of In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 449, it was intimated that if the highest court of a State "had committed an
error so gross as to amount in law to a denial by the State of
due process of law to one accused of crime, or of some right secured to him by the Constitution of the United States," this
court might take jurisdiction, but the occurrence of such an
instance was not, suggested as probable.
In Barringtonv. Missouri, 205 U. S. 483, 484, the plaintiff in
error, before the trial of the cause commenced, applied for a
change of venue on the ground .of local prejudice. Upon the
hearing of the application many witnesses were examined and
testified. and the trial court decided that prejudice justifying
a change of venue had not been made out and denied the application. In dismissing the writ of error in the above case we
said:
"It is now contended that the refusal to grant the change of
venue deprived plaintiff in error of a fair and impartial trial,
to which, under the Federal Constitution, he was entitled. The
state Supreme Court held it to be a well-settled rule of law in
Missouri that the granting of a change of venue in a criminal
case rested largely in the discretion of the trial court, and 'that

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

where the trial court has heard the evidence in favor of and
against the application, and a conclusion reached adversely to
granting the change,. such ruling will not be disturbed by this
court, and should not be unless there are circumstances of such
a nature as to indicate an abuse of the discretion lodged in such
court.' And the Supreme Court, after a full review of all the
testimony,, decided that the trial court had acted properly in
overruling the application for a change of venue. In our judgment no Federal question was involved. Were this otherwise
it would follow that we could decide in any case that the trial
court had abused its discretion under the laws of the State of
Missouri, although the Supreme Court of that State had held
to the contrary."
It was ruled in Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316, as in other
cases, that discrimination in organizing a grand jury and impanelling a petit jury cannot be established by merely proving
that no one of the defendant's race was on either of the juries,
and that an accused person cannot of right demand a mixed
jury, some of which shall be of his race, nor is a jury of that kind
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to any race. And
it was said "What an accused is entitled to 'demand, under the
Constitution of the United States, is that in organizing the
grand jury as well as in the impanelling of the petit jury, 'there
shall be no exclusion of his race, and no discrimination against
them, because of their raceor color."
As before remarked, whether such discrimination was practiced in this case was a question of fact, and the determination
of that question adversely to plaintiff in error by the trial court
and by the Court of Criminal Appeals was decisive, so far as
this court is concerned, unless it could be held that these decisions constitute such abuse as amounted to an infraction of
the Federal Constitution, which-cannot be presumed, and which'
there is no reason to hold on the record before us. On the con-.
trary, the careful opinion of the Court of Criminal Appeals,
setting forth the evidence, justifies the conclusion of that court
that the negro .race was not intentionally or otherwise dis-'

JOHNSON v. MUESER.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

criminated against in the selection of the grand and petit jurors.
Indeed, there was a negro juror on the grand jury which indicted plaintiff in error, and there were negroes on the venire
from which the jury which tried the case was drawn, although
it happened that none of them were drawn out of the jury box.
The court said:
"It may be that the jury commissioners did not give the
negro race a full pro rata with the white race in the selection of
the grand and petit jurors in this case, still this would not be
evidence of discrimination. If they 'fairly and honestly endeavored to discharge their duty, and did not in fact discriminate against the negro race in the selection of the jury lists, then
the Constitution of the United States has not been violated,
We understand the rule to be that mere error in administering
the criminal law of the State, or in the conduct of a criminal
trial, no Federal right being invaded or denied, is beyond the
revisory power of the Supreme Court of the United Stat~s under
the Constitution and the statutes regulating its jurisdiction."
No other point requiring consideration, the result is
Judgment affirmed.

JOHNSON v. MUESER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUM3IA.
No. 67.

Argued January 12, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Frasch v. Moore, 211 U. S. 1,1 followed to effect that decisions of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in appeals from the Commissioner of Patents are not reviewable by this court.
Writ of error to review 20 App. D. C. 61, dismissed and certiorari denied.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
I For headnote in Frasch v. Moore, see post, p. 285.

