OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
NATIONAL EXPRESS COMPANY v. SAME.
UNITED STATES EXPRESS COMPANY v. SAME.
WELLS, FARGO AND COMPANY v. SAME.
ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 405, 406, 407, 408, 409. Argued November 10, 11, 1908.-Decided
February 23, 1909.
-The purpose of the Elkins act, is to require publication of tariff and
to prevent and- prohibit all discrimination, and the issuing of express
franks falls within such prohibition.
Whether or not the issuing of express franks to officers and employ~s
of express companies and their families is prohibited by § 2 of the
Interstate Commerce Act of February 4, 1889, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379,
an injunction is authorized under § 3 ofthe Elkins act of February 19,
1903, c. 708, 32 Stat. 846, wherever a common carrier is engaged in the
carriage of passengers or freight at less than the published rate, and
by the Hepburn act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, express
companies are brought within the act, and obliged to file and publish th -ir rates.
The power of Congress over interstate transportation embraces all
manner of carriage whether gratuitous or otherwise; and, in the absence of express exceptions, the intention of Congress: in enacting the
Elkins act was to prevent any departure whatever from published
rates.
The exceptions contained in the provision in § 1 of the Hepburn act of
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, allowing 'a common carrier to.
issue passes-for free transportation of passengers to certain classes
of persons cannot be extended to give express companies the right to
issue passes to the same classes of persons for transportation of merchandise.
While a proviso may'sometimes be construed as extending rather than
limiting legislation each itatute must depend on its own terms, and

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

523

Argument for Appellant.

a proviso will be construed consistently with the legislation under
consideration.
Where Congress has used plain and explicit language the only province
of the courts is to give effect to the act as plainly expressed in its
terms, and if the law is defective in not extending to one class of
common carriers privileges extended to another, the remedy is in
the hands of Congress and not. of the courts.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. Lewis Cass Ledyard,
Mr. Frank H. Platt, Mr. Carl A. de Gersdorf, Mr. W. W. Green
and Mr. Charles W. Stockton were on the brief, for appellant:
The custom of express companies to issue such passes as are
herein in question was one of long standing and presumably
known to Congress. There is no record of any protest against
it to or by the Interstate*Commerce Commission, or to Congress,
nor any suggestion in any speech or report that it was supposed
to be detrimental to the public interest, or that it was intended
to beprohibited. There is no direct or express prohibition in
the statute. On the contrary, the Interstate Commerce Act
recognizes, and always has recognized that the granting of
similar privileges to the officers and employds of railroad companies is consistent with sound public policy. See § 22.of the
act. And § 1, as amended June 29, 1906, expressly exempts
officers and employds of common carriers and their families,
from the prohibition against free passenger transportation,
and declares that the provision shall not prohibit the interchange of passes for officers, agents and,qmployds of common
carriers and their families. The same section declares that the
term common carrier shall include express companies.
The reason for making these exemptions in favor.of the emplov6s of common carriers, and members of their families, is
obvious. Steamboat New World v. King, 16 How. 469, 473;
Express Cases, 117 U. S.1; B. & 0. S W. Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176
U. S. 498.
The proviso in § 1 for "the interchange of passes for the offi-

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Agument for Appellant.

212 U. S.

cers, agents and employ6s of common carriers, and their families," relates not only to passenger passes, but was evidently
used as an introduction to an amendment offered after the bill
was reported, for the purpose of extending the privilege of interchanging employ6s' passes to all common carriers subject to
the act. If not it was unnecessary, for § 22 already covered
the case of railroad passes for officers and employ~s.
As to the office of a proviso, see: Georgia Banking Co. v.
Smith, 128 U. S. 174, 181; Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 36, 37; Chesapeake & Potomac Tel. Co. v.
Manning,' 186 U. S., 238, 242; Baggaley v. Pittsburg & Lake
Superior Iron Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 638.
The failure to specifically mention express companies in §.22
does not operate to exclude them from the privilege of carrying
the personal packages of their employ~s free or of exchanging
employs' passes with other common carriers. That section is
only illustrative and not exclusive. When that section was
adopted express companies 'were not subject to the act and
were therefore not named, but when they were brought in by
the, amendment of June 29, 1906, they came within the spirit
and principle of § 22, and also within the spirit and principle
of the proviso in § 1, that this provision should not prohibit
the interchange of passes for the officers, agents and employ~s
of common carriers, and fheir families, and within the spirit of
the exemption in that section Of the employ6s of railroad companies, and their families, from the prohibition against free
passenger transportation. Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Baltimore & Ohio RailroadCompany, 145 U. S. 263, 278.
The Interstate Commerce Act does not purport to regulate
all common carriers nor the carriers that are subject to the act
in all of their relations. Section 6 declares that wherever the
word "carrier" occurs in this act, it shall be held to mean common carrier. But the service which the express companies perform f6r the holders of employds' passes is not that of common
carrier, because it is gratuitous, and the holder is required to
assume all risk of loss or damage from whatever cause, to.the

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. UNITED STATES:
212 U. S.

525

Argument for the United States.

property carried. Schouler on Bailments (3d ed.), § 343;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440; Baltimore &
Ohio S. W. Ry. Co. v. Voight, 176 U. S. 498; Quimby v. Boston
& Maine R. R., 150 Massachusetts, 365.
The free carriage of persons or property may be a cloak for a
rebate, or, under certain circumstances, an unlawful discrimination, in violation of the statute. But it is impossible for the
Government to maintain that the issuing of employds' passes in
good faith by express companies is unjust discrimination or unreasonable advantage, within the prohibition of the statute,
in the face of its explicit declarations concerning passes issued
by railroad companies to the same class of persons, for the
same reasons, and under similar circumstances.
The case of the express companies is not substantially different from that of the railroad companies, for they are engaged
in "a sort of partnership relation in carrying on a common
carrier business," and the court should not make a distinction
between them in the absence of clear and specific language in
the statute, especially as the practice which the Circuit Court
has enjoined was lawful at common law, is beneficial to the
express companies in the conduct of their business, and is not
injurious to the public.
The spirit as well as the letter of a statute must be respected,
and where the whole context of-the law demonstrates a particular intent in the legislature-to effect a certain object, some
degree of implication may be called in to aid that intent.
Durousseau v. United States, 6 Cranch, 307, 314. See also
Paquete Habana, 175 U. S. 677, 685; Glover v. United States,
164 U. S.297; C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 162 U. S. 184,,197; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 37.
-

The Attorney General and The Solicitor General for the United
States:
Transportation under franks by express companies constitutes an unjust discrimination and subjects other shippers

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

212 U. S.

to an, unreasonable prejudice 'Within the meaning of §§ 2 and 3
of the Interstate Comnierce Act. The term "under substantially similar circumstances and conditions" in § 2 refers to the
circumstances and conditions relating to the carrriage of the
goods and not to the personi-of the sender. Re Persons Free
or at Reduced Rates by B. & M. R. R. Co., 5 I. C. C. Rep. 69;
Harvey v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 5 1. C. C. Rep. 153.
The effect of the Interstate Commerce Act was to prohibit the
granting of free transportation except as provided by § 22.
Ex parte Koehler, 31 Fed. Rep. 315; Re Charge to. Grand Jury;
66 The
Fed. Rep. 146.
bortions of § 2 and 3 relating to unjust discrimination
were modeled from the English tariff act, and in construing
them our courts have followed the interpretation of the English
courts. Interstatd Comm. Comm. v. Baltimore & 0. R. R. Co.,
145 U. S. 263; I. C. C. v. Alabama Midland R. Co., 168 U. S.
144; Texas & Pacific Ry. v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 197. Construing
similar sections of the English act, the English courts have
unanimously held that the differences in circumstances and
conditions relate only to the carriage of goods and the nature
and character of the service rendered by the shipper. Gt.
Western R. Co. v. Sutton, L. R. & H. L. 226; Denaby Main
Colliery Co. v. Manchester Ry. Co., 11 App. Cas. 97.
The provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act require absolute and uniform adherence to the published schedule, and
when a carrier has once established, published and filed a rate
there can be no departure therefrom which has resulted to the
extent of granting free transportation to their own officers and
employ~s and to the officers and employds of other carriers
in exchange for like favors from those carriers. See § 6, act
June 29, 1906; § 1, Elkins act as amended by act June 29, 1906;
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Armour
Packiny Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56.
The only section of the Interstate Commerce Act which relates in terms to the carriage of property at free or reduced

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

527

Argument for the United States.

rates is § 22, 25 Stat. 857, 862, and there is nothing in it which
by any possible construction can be taken as covering the
granting and interchanging of franks by the express companies
charged here. The prohibition of the Elkins act is directed at
discriminations and advantages of every kind. The original act
of 1887 prohibited "unjust" discriminations and "undue"
and "unreasonable" prejudices and disadvantages. The change
in language in the amendatory legislation shows that Congress
was intentionally broadening the scope of the prohibitions
against the granting of advantages and discriminations. This
is. shown by the history of the interstate commerce legislation,
and of the times and the evil which the amendatory legislation
,was intended to remedy. :N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. I. C.
C., 200 U. S. 361; Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S. 56. In passing the Elkins act Congress • undoubtedly had
in mind decisions of the courts holding that a criminal prosecution could not be maintained under a statute defining with
such uncertainty the offense prohibited,-the original statute
being.so drawn as to leave for a determination of fact in every
case whether or not the discrimination was an unjust one. C.
& N. W. Ry. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Tozerv. United States,
52 Fed. Rep. 917;1. C. C. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 145 U. S.
263. When Congress drew the provision requiring adherence
to established rates and prohibiting the giving of advantages
and discriminations, and omitted the words "undue," "unreasonable" and "unjust," its intention was to make the stat-'
ute definite and certain and capable of practical enforcement,
and to put an end to favoritism and all evasions.
There is no jitstificationof the acts complained of to be found
in the anti-pass provision of § 1 of the Hepburn act, 34 Stat.
584. That section relates manifestly to the transportation of
persons alone and not to the carriage of goods. The term
"frank," applies to the transportation of property, while "pass,"
applies to the transportation of passengers. The proviso manifestly related only to railroads, and when, later, express companies were included in the law, the proviso remained un-

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

changed and escaped attention; but this is not a manifestation
of an intention on the part of Congress to extend the pass interchange to franks for the carriage of property beyond the plain
meaning and limitation of all the rest of the ,section. This is a
proviso which must be construed as carving something out of
the previous enactment and restraining its generality. The exception carved out is an exception from a proviso which is
limited to the transportation of passengers and therefore the
same limitation must be placed upon the proviso. United
States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. .141; Savings Bank v. United States,
19 Wall. 227; Georgia Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174;
White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases are appeals from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois and were submitted upon oral argument' and printed record and briefs in
No. 405. They involve the same question and hence will be
disposed of together. The petition was filed in the Circuit Court
under the third section of the Elkins act, February 19, 1903,
c. 708, 32 Stat. 847, providing for the institution of such suit
whenever the Interstate Commerce Commission shall have
reasonable grounds for believing that any common carrier is
engaged in the carriage of passengers or freight traffic between
given points at less than the published rates on file, or is granting any discrimination forbidden by law.
An injunction was issued restraining the express companies
from "issuing any frank or other documefnt for the free transportation of property to the following persons, to wit: the officers, agents, attorneys, and employ~s of said defendant and
their respective families; the officers and employ6s of other express companies and their respective families; the officers and
employ~s of any railroad or any other common carrier subject
to the act to regulate comrherce and its amendments, and their
respective families; or to any of said persons; and from trans-

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

529

Opinion of the Court.

porting and forwarding for said persons above named or any of
them, without demanding and receiving the lawful rate of payment therefor,' any shipments of property subject to the provisions of said interstate commerce act and its amendments.'
The facts are not seriously in dispute and were stipulated at
the trial and show that it has been the custom of express companies for many years to issue franks such as are embraced in the
injunction. These franks were not issued except to officers and
employ6s of the companies and their. families, and to the officers
and employ6s of other express companies and transportation
companies and members of their families, in exchange for
passes issued by the latter companies to the officers and employ~s of the express companies. The franks provided that
they should not be used for business packages or for transportation of extra heavy weight, money, bonds, jewelry, live stock,
or business consignments, and only.for the personal packages
of the holder of such frank, he being required to assume all risk
of loss or damage from whatever cause to property carried under the frank.
The question is, Does the Interstate Commerce law prohibit
express companies from giving free transportation of personal
packages to their officers and employ s and members of their
families, and to the. officers of other transportation companies
and members of their families in exchange for passes issued by
the latter to the officers of the express companies? The Circuit
Court held the affirmative of this proposition.
It is the contention of the Government that such transportation is forbidden by § 2 of the act of February 4, 1889, c. 104,
24 Stat. 379, forbidding the transportation of property or
passengers subject to the provisions of the act for any person
for a greater or less compensation for any service rendered or to
be rendered, in the transportation of -passengers or property,
than it charges, demands, collects, or :-eceives from any other
person for doing for him the like service, and by § 3 of the same
act (24 Stat. 379, 380) which makes it unlawful to give any
undue preference or advantage to any particular persons or
VOL. ccxni-34

530 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

locality, and by the provisions of the 'Elkins act hereafter
quoted.
Without considering whether the case at bar is covered by the
sections of the Interstate Commerce act referred to, an injunc-.
tion is authorized under § 3 of the Elkins act, where a common
carrier is engaged in the carriage of passengers or freight at less
than the published rate on file, and we shall limit our attention
to certain prc visions of the Elkins law in this connection. Section 1 of the Elkins act provides (as amended by the Hepburn
act, June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 587):
"The wilful failure upon the part of any carrier subject to
said acts to file and publish the tariffs or rates and charges as
required by said acts, or strictly to observe such tariffs until
.changed according to law, shall be -a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof the corporation offending shall be subject
to a fine of'not less than one thousand dollars nor more than
twenty thousand dollars for each offense.
"It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporation
to offer, grant, or give, or to solicit, accept, or receive any rebate, concession, or discrimination in respect of.the transmis-.
foreign commerce by any
sion of any property in interstate or
common carrier subject to said act to regulate commerce and
the acts amendatory. thereof, whereby any such property shall
by any device whatever be 'transported at a less rate than that
named in the tariffs published and filed by such carrier, as is-required by said act to regulate comnierce and the acts amendatory thereof, or whereby any other advantage is given or discrimination is practiced.
"Whenever any carrier files with the Interstate'Commerce
Commission or publishes a particular rate under the'provisions
of the act to regulate commerce or acts amendatory thereof,
or participates in any rates so filed or published, that rate as
against such carrier,..its officers,-or agents, in any prosecution
begun under this act, shall be conclusively deemed to be the
legal rate, and any departure from such rate, or any offer to.

AMERICAN EXPRESS-CO. v. UNITED STATES.
.212 U. S.

531

-Opinion of the Court.

depart therefrom, shall be deemed to be an offense under this
section of this act."
Section six of the Interstate Commerce act, as amended by
the same law, provides:
"Nor shall any carrier charge or demand, or collect or receive a greater or less or different compensation for such trans-.
portation of passengers or property, or for any service in connection therewith, between the point named in such tariffs than
the rates, fares and'charges-which are specified in the tariff fied
and in effect at the time; nor shall any carrier refund or remit
in any manner or by any device any portion of the rates, fares,
and charges so specified, nor extend to. any shipper or person
any privileges or facilities in the transportation of passengers
or property except such as Are specified in such tariffs: Provided, That whenever the'word 'carrier' occurs in this act it
shall be held to mean 'common carrier.'
The amendment to the Interstate Commerce act by the act of
June 29, 1906, c.-3591, 34 Stat. 584, brought express companies
within the terms of the act. The express companies were therefore obliged to file and publish their rates for the transportation of property under § 6 of the Interstate Commerce act as
amended, and it is admitted in the record that they have done
SO.
The provisions of the Elkins act to which we have referred
have been the subject of consideration in recent cases before
this court. New ,York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 36i; Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 71. It is unnecessary to
repeat the discussion had in those cases as to the prior legislation and the reasons of public policy which led up to the enactment of the sections of the Elkins act above quoted. It is
enough to say that it was the purpose of this law to require the
publication and posting of tariff rates, open to public inspection,
and at the service of all shippers alike; to prohibit and punish
secret departures from the published rates, and to prevent and
punish rebating, preferences and all acts of undue discrimina-

COTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

tion. As was said by Mr. Justice White, speaking for the court
in New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, supra:
"The all-embracing prohibition against either directly or in-

directly charging less than the published rates shows that the
purpose of the statute was to make the prohibition applicable
to every method of dealing by a carrier by which the forbidden
result could be brought about. If the public purpose which the
statute was intended to accomplish be borne in mind, its meaning becomes, if possible, clearer."
In view of the interpretation thus given to the act'we think
it cannot be doubted that the transportation of property, such
as shown in this case, upon franks issued by the express companies, is within the terms of the act. It permits those who
hold these franks to obtain the transportation of such property
as is covered thereby without compensation, or, if the transportation has been paid, it is refunded to the shipper upon the
presentation of the frank. Within the terms used in the Elkins
act, such transportation enables one class of persons to obtain
transportation at a different and less rate than that named in
the published rates.
It is contended that such transportation is not within the
terms of the act, as it was not the purpose of Congress to regulate in these provisions gratuitous transportation, but the purpose was to prevent discrijuinations, rebating and so forth,
where property has been carried by a common carrier for hire;
that it is a departure from the rates charged for that class of
transportation which is the evil to be remedied, and the only
one covered by the terms of the act. .But the power of Congress
over interstate - -nsportation embraces all manner of carriage
of that character-whether-gratuitous or otherwise-and, in
the absence of express exceptions, we think it was the intention
of Congress to -prevent a departure from the published, rates.
and schedules in any manner whatsoever. If this be not so, a
wide door is opened to favoritism in the carriage of property,
in the instances mentioned, free of charge.

AMERICAN EXPRESS'CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212*U. S.

533

Opinion of the Court.

If it is lawful, in view of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce act, to issue franks of the character under consideration
in this case, then this right must be founded upon some exception incorporated in the act, and it is the contention of the
learned counsel for the appellant that such exception is found
in the proviso in § 1 of the Hepburn act. This section is given
in part in the margin. 1
Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584. The term "common
carriers" as used in this act'shall include express companies and sleeping car companies.
"No common carrier subject to the provisions of this Act, shall, after
January first, nineteen hundred and seven, directly or indirectly, issue
or give any interstate free ticket, free pass, or free transpprtation for
passengers, except to its employds and their families, its officers, agents,
surgeons, physicians, and attorneys at law; to ministers of religion, traveling' secretaries of railroad Young Men's Christian Associations, inmates of hospitals and charitable and eleemosynary institutions, and
persons exclusively' engaged in charitable and eleemosynary work; to

indigent, destitute and homeless persons, and to such persons when
transported by charitable societies or hospitals, and the necessary agents
emp1byed in such transportation; to inmates of the National Homes or
State Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, and of Soldiers' and Sailors' Homes, including those about to enter and those returning home
after discharge, and boards of managers of such homes; to necessary
caretakers of live stock, poultry, and fruit; to employds on sleeping cars,
express cars, and to linemen of telegraph and telephone companies;, to
railway mail service employds, post office inspectors, customs inspectors
and immigration inspectors; to newsboys on trains, baggage agents,
witnesses attending any legal investigation in which the common 'carrier
is interested, persons injured in wrecks and'-physicians and nurses attending such persons: Provided, That this provision shall not be construed to prohibit the interchange of passes for the officers,' agents, and
employds of common carriers, and their families; nor to prohibit any
common carrier from carrying passengers free with the object of providing Irelief in cases of general epidemic, pestilence, or other calamitous
visitation. Any common carrier violating this provision shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and for each offense, on, conviction, shall pay
to the United States a penalty of not less -than one hundred dollars
nor more' than two thousand dollars, and any person, other than the
persons excepted in this provision, who uses any such interstate free

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S

As originally reported, this act did not apply to express cornpanies. The section was originally framed with the intention
of making a provision for railroad carriers. It is contended7
that the proviso .brings common carriers within the exception
•of.the act, and therefore necessarily includes the express companies. There is no doubt that a proviso has not infrequently
been the means of introducing into a law independent legislation, notwithstanding it is the true office of a proviso to restrict
the sense or make clear that which has gone before and which
might be'doubtful because of the generality of the language
used. United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141, 163. This court
has had occasion to hold more than once that language used in
provisos shows the legislative intention to bring in new matter
rather than to limit or explain that which has gone before.
Georgia Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 36, 37.
-While, therefore, a proviso may sometimes be construed as
extending rather than limiting legislation, each statute must
Udepend upon its own terms; and a proviso will be given such
Construction as is consistent with the legislation' under construction.
Turning to § 1 of the Hepburn act, it is apparent that all that
immediately precedes the proviso appertains to the. carriage of
passengers, for common carriers are forbidden to issue or give
aniy free ticket, free pass or. free transportation for passengers,
except to its employ~s, etc. Until we come to the proviso" the
act is ,learly thus limited. It is then enacted that this provision, that is, the previous part of the enactment which-refers
only to the transportation of passengers, shall not be construed
to prohibit the interchange of passes for the officers, agents and
employs of common carriers and their families,- or to prohibit
any common carrier from carrying passengers free in certain
cases.

While it is true the language here used has reference to cornticket, free pass, or free transportation, shall be subject to a like penalty."

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Coourt.

535

-

mon carriers and by the terms of the Hepburn act express companies are within that description, yet the proviso is as clearly
limited to the carriage of passengers and .the interchange of
passes for officers, agents and employ6s of common carriers and
their families, as is the body of the section itself.
It is contended that this section if limited to the carriage of
passengers was unnecessary in view of the concluding part of.
§22 of the act of February 4, 1887, c. 104;24 Stat. 379, 387,
as amended by the acts of'March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 55,
862, and February 8, 1895, c. 61, 28 Stat: 643, which 'provides: "Nothing in this act shall be. construed to prevent :railroads from 'giving free carriage! to their.own officers and employ(s, or to prevefit the principal officers of any railroad
company or companies fromexchanging passes or tickets with
other railroad companies for their officers and employs;-" etc.
But we are to consider the language which Congress has used
in passing a given law, and when the language is plain and explicit our only province is to give effect to the act as plainly expressed in its terms. We are clearly of the opinion that, without doing violence to the language used in § 1 -including the
proviso-its terms cannot be held to include the transportation
of goods.
It is very likely that therje is no substantial reason why Con-gress should not extend to express. companies, their officers;
agents and employ~s, corresponding privileges for free carriage.
of goods with those which are given to the officers, agents and
employ6s of r,ilroad companies in respect to transportation of
persons, but-if the law is defective in this respect-the remedy
must be applied by Congress and not by the courts,
We find no error in the decrees of the Circuit Court, and the
same are

Affirmed.

