OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Syllabus.

340 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. UNITED STATES GYPSUM
CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 30.

Argued October 19, 1950.-Decided November 27, 1950.

1. On the remand ordered by this Court in United States v. United
States Gypsum Co., 3:33 U. S. 364, of this suit to enjoin violations
of the Sherman Act, the District Court entered a summary judgment for the United States. The District Court found that the
defendants had acted in concert to restrain trade and fix prices
in the gypsum board industry in the eastern territory of the United
States, and had monopolized that industry, in violation of §§ 1
and 2 of the Sherman Act. Held:
(a) The previous decision of this Court, 333 U. S. 364, justified
a summary judgment for the United States on the issue of the
violation of the Sherman Act, when the record was considered in
the light of this Court's opinion and defendants' offer of proof on
the remand. P. 82.
(b) To establish a violation of the Sherman Act, it was sufficient
to show that the defendants, constituting all former competitors
in an entire industry, had acted in concert to restrain commerce
in an entire industry under patent licenses in order to organize
the industry and stabilize prices. It was not necessary then or
now to decide whether a mere plurality of licenses, each containing
a price-fixing provision, violates the Sherman Act. Pp. 84-85.
(c) On the remand, the defendants were entitled to introduce
any evidence from which all or any of them might be found not
to have violated the Sherman Act, and they had a right to lay
before the court facts that were pertinent to the court's decision
on the terms of the decree; but the trial court was not required
to admit evidence that would not affect the outcome of the proceedings. P. 85.
(d) A summary judgment, under Rule 56 of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, was permissible on the remand. P. 86.
(e) Upon the evidence introduced by the Government and that
proffered by the defendants, a finding that defendants had not
violated the Sherman Act. would have been clearly erroneous, in
view of the concert of action to fix industry prices by the terms
of the patent licenses. Pp. 86-87.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

SYllabus.

(f) The District Court's preliminary statement and summary
decree are construed as an adjudication of violation of the Sherman
Act by the action in concert of the defendants through the fixedprice licenses, accepting as true the underlying facts in the defendants' proffer of proof; and that conclusion entitled the Government
only to relief based on that finding and the proffered facts, lp.
87-88.
2. Upon a finding of consl)iracy in restraint of trade and a monopoly
in a civil proceeding under the Sherman Act, the trial court has
the duty to compel action by the conspirators that will, so far as
practicable, cure the ill effects of the illegal conduct, and assure
the public freedom from its continuance. P. 88.
3. The relief which the trial court may afford from violations of the
Sherman Act is not limited to prohibition of the proven means
by which the evil was accomplished, but may range broadly through
practices connected with acts actually found to be illegal; even
acts which may be entirely proper when viewed alone may be
prohibited. Pp. 88--S9.
4. Participants in a conspiracy in violation of the Sherman Act should,
so far as practicable, be denied future benefits from their forbidden
conduct. P. 89.
5. While the determination of the scope of a decree in a Sherman
Act case is peculiarly the responsibility of the trial court, this Court
may intervene when there are inappropriate provisions in the
decree. P. 89.
6. In resolving doubts as to the desirability of including in an antitrust decree provisions designed to restore future freedom of trade,
the courts should give weight to the fact of conviction as well as
to the circumstances under which the illegal acts occur. Acts in
disregard of law call for repression by sterner measures than where
the conduct could reasonably have been thought permissible. Pp.
89-90.
7. Upon consideration of the Government's proposed amendments to
the decree of the District Court in this case, held:
(a) The decree's definition of gypsum board is too restrictive,
and the words -and embodying any of the inventions or improvements set forth and claimed in any of the Patents" should be
stricken, if the definition is used. P. 90.
(b) Although the complaint of Sherman Act violation was restricted to the eastern territory of the United States and the evidence applied only to that area, the close similarity between interstate commerce violations of the Sherman Act in eastern territory

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Syllabus.

340 U. S.

and western territory justifies the enlargement of the geographical
scope of the decree to include all interstate commerce. P. 90.
(c) The decree should be extended to include all gypsum products instead of patented gypsum board alone. Pp. 90-91.
(d) The decree should forbid standardization of trade practices
through concerted agreement. P. 91.
(e) The decree should forbid concerted use of delivered price
systems; but, in order to avoid any possibility that an individual's
meeting of competitors' prices may be construed as a contempt of
the decree, the proposed provision relative to delivered price systems should read as follows: -5.Agreeing upon any plan of selling
or quoting gypsum products it prices calculated or determined pursuant to a delivered price plan whic> results in identical prices or
price quotations at given points of sales or quotation by defendants
using such plan; ". Pp. 91-92.
(f) In this case there should be i'o requirement of reciprocal
grants under patents; but the United States Gypsum Company
should be required to license till
itspatents in the gypsum products
field to all applicants on equal terms. Pp. 93-94.
(g) Whether the term for compulsory licensing of new patents
should be five years, or a longer period with a privilege to the
appellees to move for a limitation, is in the discretion of the District
Court, which should provide for its determination of a reasonable
royalty either in each instance of failure to agree or by an approved
form or by any other plan in its discretion. P. 94.
(h) The decree should not place upon the United States Gypsum
Company the burden of establishing the reasonableness of the
requested royalty; and this Court does not now decide where the
burden of proof of value lies or who has the duty to go forward
with the evidence in any particular instance. P. 94.
(i) The Government's proposed provision that the decree shall
not be taken is preventing an "applicant" (here construed as
meaning licensee) attacking the patent or as importing value to
it should be omitted, leaving the parties to existing rules of law.
P. 94.
(j)The Government's suggested provisions for inspection of
licensees' books and reports to licensor are approved. P. 95,
(k) There should be included in the decree a provision granting
the Government access to the records and personnel of the (lefendants for the purpose of advising the Government with respect to
defendants' compli:mce with the judgment, P. 95.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Counsel for Parties.
(I) The provisions of Article V of the decree are adequate to

bar the inolivilul defendants, who signed the questioned agreements in their catpacil ties a offiial

in similar conspiracies.

of the companies, from engaging

P. 95.

(m) This Court sees no re:ison to interfere with the discretion
of the I)istrict Court in :isssiilg the defendant comlpanies 50%,

rat her than 100),
of the costs to
1) 95.
eRever-ed and rem:nd.

be taxed in the proceeding.

From a decree of a. three-judge I)istriet Court enjoining
violations of the Sherman Act, the United States appealed
directly to this ('ourt. Article III of the decree, finding
that the defendants had violated the Sherman Act, was
affirmed by this Court. 339 U. S. 960. The issues left
for determination were those raised by the United States
upon objections to provisions of the decree. Reversed and
remanded, P. 95.
Charles H. Weston argtied the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorneiy General Bergson, Edward
Knuff and Robert L. Stern.
Bruce Bromlei argued the cause for the United States
Gypsum (o. et al., appellees. With him on the brief
were Cranston Spray, Albert R. Connlly and Hugh
Lyn ch, Jr.
Norman A. -lMill/r argued the cause for Certain-Teed
Products (Corporation. al)Cllee. With him on lhe brief
were Donald X. Ca Us'n, Herbert IF. Hirsh alld Charlton
O.burn.
.4 odrew J. l)allstrcam, W'alter (;. 3no!.!/e, Ralph 1. lWanlass and .A1bert K. tHall/tt suiblnitted on brief for tile Celotex (Corporatiom. appellee.
Elmer E. FincI, for the National Gypsum (o.. Joseph S.
t'Rippctj for the Ehsary (ypsum (.. Inc. and David I.
Johnston for Glov . appellees. also submitted on brief.
I1079S

0

-51

- -12

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.
MRt. JUSTICE REED

340 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This proceeding was filed in 1940 in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia by the
United States under the authority of the Attorney General. 15 U. S. C. § 4. The complaint charged, 44,
a long-continued conspiracy by defendants in restraint
of trade in gypsum products among the several states
and in the District of Columbia, and a similar monopoly,
all in violation of §§ 1, 2 an( 3 of the Sherman Antitrust
Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2, 3.
The defendaits, appellees here, were United States Gypsum Co., patentee, an(d various other gypsum board
manufacturers, its licensees, and certain of their officers.
It was alleged that the combination carried out its unlawful purposes as indicated in the excerpt from the
complaint quoted below.' Civil relief, through prohibitory and mandatory orders, was prayed in various appropriate forms. After the United States concluded its
evidence in chief at the trial, a three-judge District
Court, 15 1. S. C. § 28, granted appellees' motion to dismiss under Rule 41 (b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Pro'"45. Said combination has been formed, has been carried out,
and is being carried out by each of the defendant companies (acting,
in part, throu gh those of thecir officers and directors made defendants
herein) and V other otiipatiis hereinafter referred to engaged in
of saild gysunm pirodlits. Said companies have
the tinufaturt,
nterd into, have c:ri ,d out, anid ire carrying out said combination
for the 1purpose, and with tlhe ffect, of restraining, dominating, and
controlling the tininfac tnurc and distribution of said gypsum products
in the Eastern area by:
"(a) Concertedly r'iiing and fixing at arbitrary and noncompetitive levels the prices of gYpsuim board manufactured and sold by
said companies in the Eastern arca;
"(b) concertedly standardizing gypsum board and its method of
production by limiting the manufacture of board to uniform methods,
and by producing only uniform kinds of board, for the purpose, and
with the effect, of eliminating competition arising from variations

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.

cedure on the ground that no right to relief had been
shown. On direct appeal, 15 U. S. C. § 29, we reversed
the judgment of dismissal, March 8, 1948, United States
v. United States Gypsum Co., 333 U. S. 364, and remanded
the case to the District Court for further proceedings in
conformity with our opinion.

On remand a conference took place at the Government's
suggestion. The Court acted under procedure similar to
pretrial, Rule 16, and its inherent power to direct a case
so as to aid in its disposition. As a result of that conference, without objection from any party, the Government filed a motion for a summary judgment under Rule
56 on the ground that there was no genuine issue as to any
material fact, and the appellees filed an offer of proof,
directed at matters as to which appellees were of the opinion a genuine issue existed. A summary judgment, without other findings than those contained in the decree, was
entered November 7, 1949, on appellant's motion.2 Both
in methods of production and in kinds of board manufactured and
distributed in the Eastern area;
"(e) concertedly raising, maintaining, and stabilizing the general
level of prices for plaster and nisecll:ineous g\ypsum products manufactured and sold by s<id compalnies in the Eistern area:
"(d) concertedly refraining from distributing gypsuim

board,
plaster, and miscellaneous gypsum products manufactured by said
companies through jobbers in the Eastern area, and concertedly refusing to sell said products to jobbers at prices below said companies'
prices to dealers, for the purpose, and with the effect, of eliminating
substantially all jobbers from the distribution of said gypsum
products in the Eastern area;
"(e) concertedly inducing and coercing manufacturing distributors
to resell, at the prices raised and fixed by said companies as aforesaid,
gypsum board purchased from si d comi.
"The pertinent portion, of the decree as entered below are set out
in an appendix to t his opinion (post, p. 9t6) in pra llel columns with
portions of the decree proposed 'v the Government in its brief here.
This propos, is more limited than the (_o\ernmient'. proposed decree
offered in the District Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

:340 U. S.

plaintiff and defendants took direct appeals from the
decree to this Court. 15 U. S. C. § 29. Defendants'
appeal objected to summary judgment on the ground of
their right to introduce material evidence. That appeal
was dismissed by this Court. 339 U. S. 959. The reasons
for our action lay in the fact that our holding in our first
opinion, 333 U. S. 364, justified a summary judgment for
plaintiff on the issue of the violation of the Sherman Act
when the record was considered in the light of our opinion
and defendants' offer of proof on the remand. This point
is discussed later in this opinion under subdivision I.
Probable jurisdiction was noted on the appeal of the
United States. This is the case we are now discussing.
For the same reasons that we dismissed defendants' appeal, this Court affirmed Article III of the District Court
decree. Our order also carried the sanction of an injunction against violation of the decree, "pending further
order of this Court." 339 U. S. 960.
The issues left for determination in this appeal are
those raised by the United States in its effort to have the
provisions of the District Court decree enlarged. It seeks
to extend the injunctions against violations of the Sherman Act to cover gypsum products instead of being
limited to gypsum board as defined in the decree; and to
include interstate commerce generally instead of limiting
the territorial scope of the decree to the eastern portion
of the United States. It also seeks changes that forbid
specific practices, in addition to price fixing, such as
standardizing products, classifying customers, or adopting delivered price systems, all pursuant to the principal
conspiracy. It seeks to compel licensing of all patents
by United States Gypsum; to empower the Department
of Justice to inspect certain records; to extend the decree's
terms to cover individual defendants; and to require the
defendants to pay all costs.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.
I.

Procedure on remand.-In determining the present issues, it is necessary to consider the trial court's solution
of the procedural problems presented by our remand.
Our decree was a reversal of the trial court's dismissal
of the complaint on the merits at the completion of plaintiff's, the United States', presentation of its evidence.
In our opinion, 333 U. S. 364, 389, we said that
"the industry-wide license agreements, entered into
with knowledge on the part of licensor and licensees
of the adherence of others, with the control over
prices and methods of distribution through the agreements and the bulletins, were sufficient to establish
a prima facie case of conspiracy."
We said that the intention of United States Gypsum and
its licensees to act in concert to attain the purpose of
the conspiracy, restraint of trade and monopoly, was
apparent from the face of the license agreements. Pp.
389, 400.
"The licensor was to fix minimum prices binding both
on itself and its licensees; the royalty was to be
measured by a percentage of the value of all gypsum
products, patented or unpatented; the license could
not be transferred without the licensor's consent; the
licensee opened its books of accounts to the licensor;
the licensee was protected against competition with
more favorable licenses and there was a cancellation
clause for failure to live up to the arrangements."
We stressed the acting in concert as cifferentiating the case
from United States v. Gene-al Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476,
discussed on pp. 400 and 401 of 333 U. S., the concert
of action being established by the favored licensee clause
of the standard license agreement. 333 U. S. at 410.'
'Exhibit A and paragraph 4 referred to on p. 410 contain the
licenses involved in this litigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

In United States v. Line Material Co., 333 U. S. 287,
decided the same day as the Gypsum case, the opinion
of the Court discussed the then standing of the General
Electric rule as follows:
"We are thus called upon to make an adjustment
between the lawful restraint on trade of the patent
monopoly and the illegal restraint prohibited broadly
by the Sherman Act. That adjustment has already
reached the point, as the precedents now stand, that a
patentee may validly license a competitor to make and
vend with a price limitation under the General Electric case and that the grant of patent rights is the
limit of freedom from competition ..... " P. 310.
We added, pp. 311 and 312, that while the General Electric rule permitted a patentee to fix the price the licensee
of patents may charge for the device, separate patent
owners could not combine the patents and thus reach an
agreement to fix the price for themselves and their licensees. There was no holding in our first opinion in
Gypsum that mere multiple licensing violated the Sherman Act.' The facts and the language placed our judgment squarely on the basis that
"it would be sufficient to show that the defendants,
constituting all former competitors in an entire industry, had acted in concert to restrain commerce in
an entire industry under patent licenses in order to
organize the industry and stabilize prices." P. 401P
As appears from the preliminary statement of its decree,
the trial court acted on that understanding of our holding.
4

The (li.enter. in Line joined in the United States Gypsum opinion,

since the concerted action in the United States Gypsum case was
thought to violate the Sherman Act, despite their view that the mere
multiplication of licenses, as in Line, "produces a repetition of the
same issue [as in General Electric] rather than a different issue."

333 U. S. at 354.
5

Gypsum's petition for rehearing sought a modification of this
position. It argued that "separate but similar lawful agreements

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.

See Appendix, post, p. 96.

It was not necessary to reach

the issue as to whether a mere plurality of licenses, each
containing a price-fixing provision, violates the Sherman
Act. It is not necessary now.
The reference, 333 U. S. at 389, to the establishment
of a prima facie case of conspiracy by conscious industry
concert in price fixing was directed at the basis for the admission of the separate declarations of alleged conspirators. Section V, pp. 399-402, of the opinion, however.
contains our determination that an industry's concerted
price fixing by license violates the Sherman Act per se.
United States v. ParamountPictures, 334 U. S.131, 143.
Of course, when we remanded the case to the District
Court the defendants had the right to introduce any evidence that they might have as to why all or any one of
them should be found not to have violated the Sherman
Act. Our reference at 333 U. S. 402, footnote 20, to
Gulbenkian v. Gulbenkian, 147 F. 2d 173, shows that.
See Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Mason, 115 F. 2d
548, 552; Bowles v. Biberinan Bros., 152 F. 2d 700, 705.
Furthermore, even though defendants had no substantial evidence to overcome the prima facie conclusion
of Sherman Act violation, they had the right to lay
facts before the court that were pertinent to the court's
decision on the terms of the decree; for example, the purpose of the concerted action, or the reason for making new
patents available to the licensees, or willingness to license
all applicants for the patent privilege. Such rights, however, did not require the trial court to admit evidence that
would not affect the outcome of the proceedings. They
did not affect the power of the trial court to direct the
progress of the case in such a way as to avoid a waste of
time.
must still be lawful if the result is lawful and no preliminary agreements or understandings to make them could be unlawful." We

denied rehearing.

333 U. S. at 869.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

A summary judgment, under Rule 56, was permissible
on remand. It was allowed, as the last paragraph of the
preliminary statement of the decree shows, on the court's
understanding that our opinion "held that the defendants
acted in concert to restrain trade and commerce in the
gypsum board industry and monopolized said trade and
commerce among the several states in that section hereinafter referred to as the eastern territory of the United
States . . . ." As heretofore explained, that conclusion
followed from our decision, if no evidence that controverted our ruling was offered. It is therefore necessary
to examine briefly the offer of evidence.
The offer contained sixty-two paragraphs of proposed
evidence. A full exposition is impracticable. Stress was
laid on the available evidence to rebut our finding of an
industry plan to stabilize prices.' Evidence was offered
to show the licenses were for settlement of alleged infringements, and individual in character and were not
used as a subterfuge to gain price control. Such evidence
would not affect our determination, set out above, that
price-fixing licenses made in knowing concert by standardized price requirements violated the Sherman Act by
their very existence.
Defendants offered to prove that royalties based on
unpatented gypsum board were compensation for patent
licenses and installment payment for prior infringement
damages. Such proof would not affect the fact that
such a royalty added to the cost of producing unpatented
board.
6 E. g., "1. There was no agreement or understanding between the
United States Gypsum Company (USG), patentee, and the other

defendants or any of them that they would associate themselves in
a plan to blanket the industry under patent licenses and stabilize
prices or issue or cause to be issued substantially identical licenses
to all of the defendants or any number of them."

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.

Proof was offered that covenants against transfer of
licenses, for price maintenance and for equality of license
terms, and bulletin orders against rebates by selling other
products at a cheaper price when patented articles were
sold, were to protect the licensor's inonopoly under its
letters patent. It was offered to prove that the activities
of the Board Survey Company, considered in our former
opinion, 333 U. S. 364, 400, were to secure compliance
with the licenses; that there was no agreement to eliminate jobbers but only a purpose to maintain patent prices
by discontinuing the jobber's discount. Such proof, in
view of our holding as to the Sherman Act, would not
make legal concerted action under patents to stabilize
prices. We pass over other offers of proof as clearly immaterial on the issue of liability for Sherman Act violation. Good intentions, proceeding under plans designed
solely for the purpose of exploiting patents, are no defense
against a charge of violation by admitted concerted action
to fix prices for a producer's products, whether or not those
products are validly patented devices. We do not think
that, accepting the offers of fact as true, there is enough
in the proffered evidence to change the actions of the
defendants from the illegal to the permnissible. A finding
that the manufacturers (lid not violate the Sherman Act
under the evidence introduced by the Governnent and
that proffered by the defendants below would be clearly
erroneous in view of the concert of action to fix industry
prices by the terms of the licenses.'
We agree xwith a statement inade by counsel for the
Government in argument below that as a "matter of
One of the defendants, Celotex Corporation, made a separate
proffer of proof, indicating that it was the purchasr of a license from
a licensee, Ameriezn G,ypsmn Company. In the transfer, Celotex
asumed the licensee's obligations to maintain the licensor's price. As
Celotex took no olher part in the conspiracy, it contends that the
decree should not impose upon it any further restriction than a pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of die Court.

340 U. S.

formulating the decree" many facts offered to be proven
would have effect upon the conclusion of a court as to
the decree's terms. However, we read the preliminary
statement of the District Court to the decree and the
summary decree itself as an adjudication of violation of
the Sherman Act by the action in concert of the defendants through the fixed-price licenses, accepting as
true the underlying facts in defendants' proof by proffer.
The trial judges understood the summary judgment to be,
as Judge Stephens said, "limited to that one undisputed
question." Judge Garrett and Judge Jackson agreed.'
That conclusion entitled the Government only to relief
based on that finding and tie proffered facts. On that
basis we dismissed United States Gypsum's appeal from
the decree, and on that basis we examine the Government's
objection to the decree.
II.
The Government's proposed amendments to the decree.-A trial court upon a finding of a conspiracy in
restraint of trade and a monopoly has the duty to compel
action by the conspirators that will, so far as practicable,
cure the ill effects of the illegal conduct, and assure the
public freedom from its continuance. Such action is not
limited to prohibition of the proven means by which the
hibition against price maintenance.

Since Celotex entered into the

conspiracy by its purchase of the license with an agreement to operate
in accordance with its terms, we think it should be treated in the
decree like the other licensees.
8 At the hearing on proper terms for the decree Judge Garrett said,
"Judge Jackson and I thought that, within the limits of the decision
of the Supreme Court, that decree should of course be granted and
that nothing that was given us in the proffer of proof would change
the attitude of the Supreme Court within the scope of those matters
upon which it had specifically passed.
"Now, that was the summnary judgment."

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.

evil was accomplished, but may range broadly through
practices connected with acts actually found to be illegal.'
Acts entirely proper when viewed alone may be prohibited.'" The conspirators should, so far as practicable,
be denied future benefits from their forbidden conduct.
The deterinination of the scope of the decree to accomplish its purpose is peculiarly the responsibility of
the trial court. Its opportunity to know the record and
to appraise the need for prohibitions or affirmative actions
normally exceeds that of any reviewing court. This has
been repeatedly recognized by us." Notwithstanding our
adherence to trial court responsibility in the molding of
a decree as the wisest practice and the most productive of
good results, we have never treated that power as one of
discretion, subject only to reversal for gross abuse. Rather
we have felt an obligation to intervene in this most significant phase of the case when we concluded there were
inappropriate provisions in the decree.'
In resolving
doubts as to the desirability of including provisions designed to restore future freedom of trade, courts should
give weight to the fact of conviction as well as the circumstances under which the ilegal acts occur.'" Acts in
disregard of law call for repression by sterner measures
than where the steps could reasonably have been thought
Ethtl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436, 461; Hartford-Empiire Co. v.United States, 323 U. S. 386, 409; International
Salt ('o. v. United States, 332 U. S.392, 401.
United States v. Bausch & Lomb Co., 321 U. S. 707, 724.
Associated Press v. Unitud States, 326 Ui. S. 1, 22; cf. Ilternational Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S.392, 399-401. And see
United States v. Crescent Amusement Co., :323 U. S. 173, 185.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 7S-82; United
States v. American Tobacco 'o.. 221 U. S. 106, 1S4-1SS; 'nited States
v. Crescent Amusement Co.. 323 U. S. 173, 185-1S7; note especially
Hartford-Empire Co. v. United States. :32:3 U. S.:36, 409-435.
'1 Local 167, 1. B. 7'. v. United States, 291 U. S. 293, 299; Hartford-Empire Co. v. United States, 32:3 U. S. 386, 409.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

permissible. We turn then to the Government's proposals for modification of the decree on the assumption
that only a violation through concerted industry license
agreements has been proven, but recognizing, as is conceded by defendants, that relief, to be effective, must go
beyond the narrow limits of the proven violation.
(a) There is one change acceptable to the Government
and United States Gypsum and which we think desirable.
Article II, § 3, of the decree defines gypsum board as
"made from gypsum and embodying any of the inventions
or improvements set forth and claimed in any of the Patents." This is too restrictive, and the words "and embodying any of the inventions or improvements set forth
and claimed in any of the Patents" should be stricken, if
the definition is used.
(b) The Government accepts the finding of Article III
of the decree but objects to Article V (2) and (3) because,
read together, they allow agreements through price fixing
by license between United States Gypsum and Pacific
Coast licensees. The complaint of Sherman Act violation
was restricted to the eastern territory of the United States.
The evidence applied only to that area. However, the
close similarity between interstate commerce violations
of the Sherman Act in eastern territory and western territory seems sufficient to justify the enlargement of the
geographical scope of the decree to include all interstate
commerce. Article V of the Government's proposed decree indicates one way in which this extension could be
accomplished.
(c) The Government asks an extension of the decree
to include all gypsum products instead of patented gypsum board alone. Compare Appendix, Article V. The
license agreements, as indicated above, required royalties
on unpatented open edge gypsum board. Board Survey,
the organization created to enforce the license agreements,
found possibilities of price evasion to exist by a licensee's

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.

cutting prevailing prices on other commodities, sold in
conjunction with patented gypsum board. Bulletins, issued to standardize sale practices, criticized rebates as violative of the license agreements. 333 U. S. 364, 386.
Defendants' offer of proof did not deny such effort to systematize sales. Their explanation was that the efforts
were to enforce legitimate license agreements and were not
calculated steps in conspiracy or monopoly. We think
the Government's request that the decree's injunctions
reach gypsum products, as defined in its proposed decree,
is reasonable and should be allowed. See U. S. proposed
decree, Article II, § 4, and Article V.
(d) The Government asks that the decree forbid standardization of trade practices through concerted agreement.
Our former Gypsum opinion, pp. 382-383, gives a summary of the methods adopted. Another method of regulating sales was by special provision for certain classes of
customers, jobbers and manufacturing distributors. See
333 U. S. at 397 and 399, n. 18. We think this would
justify the Government's requests. Article V, §§ 3, 4
and 6.
(e) The Government asks the insertion of Article V,
§ 5, directed at an agreement for concerted action in selling or quoting products at prices calculated according to
a delivered price system. It points out that such a system
was said by this Court, 333 U. S. at 382, to have been
employed, and no proffer of contrary proof has been made.
Defend. '. argue as follows: The price for the patented product was "the lowest combination of mill price
and rail freight from mill to destination." Defendants
urge that
"The only witness at the trial who was interrogated
about it said that the pricing system in the gypsum
board industry was the very opposite of the basing
point system ; that the mill base prices were extended
to all mills; and that it was really only a freight

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

equalization method of pricing which resulted in the
customer always getting the lowest possible price no
matter from whom he bought."
And they say
"It was not established by the license bulletins, but
licensor, in stating the minimum price, merely used
the method of pricing as it then existed."
Further, defendants point out
"If appellee companies are to be questioned as to
their method of pricing, they should be afforded a
full hearing for the presentation of all pertinent
matters bearing upon their pricing practices and
should not be called upon to defend themselves in
a summary hearing for an alleged contempt of
court."
We think the defendants are unduly apprehensive. The
Government's proposed prohibition of delivered, price arrangements is directed at concerted action, by agreement
or understanding among the manufacturers, not at any
system of pricing the individual manufacturer may adopt
or any price that he may make.14 Since the conspiracy
for restraint of trade was furthered by this arrangement,
use of such a method should be banned for the future.
To avoid any possibility that an individual's meeting of
competitors' prices would be construed as a contempt of
I'. read
Id
the decree, we think proposed Article V, § 5
as follows:
"5. Agreeing upon any plan of selling or quoting
gypsum products at prices calculated or determined
pursuant to a delivered price plan which results in
identical prices or price quotations at given points of
sales or quotation by defendants using such plan;"
14See

our discussion in Federal Trade Comm'n v. Cement Institute,

333 U. S. 683, 727-728.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.

(f) The Government objects to Article VI of the decree which provides, § 1, for compulsory licensing for 90
days to any applicant of all then-owned patents relating
to gypsum board at not to exceed the standardized royalties as theretofore charged to defendant licensees. The
objection is that the limited time makes the requirement
futile except for present licensees. There is a corollary
objection to Article VIII because of provisions in the
approved license agreements. Particular reference is
made by the Government to an approved provision requiring the licensee to report its monthly sales and price
with right to Gypsum to have an inspection by a certified
public accountant approved by the parties. The Government fears the competitive advantage to Gypsum of
knowing its competitors' sales and prices, and the depressive effect of such information on a strenuous sales program by the licensee.
The Government suggests expanding the requirement
of licensing to include all United States Gypsum patents,
old and new, with a provision by which new patents may
be excluded after five years. See proposed decree, Article
VI, § 6. Other proposed changes require all licensees to
receive equal treatment as to royalties, put the burden
of establishing royalty values on United States Gypsum
and allow a licensee to attack the validity of patents.
In United States v. National Lead Co., 332 U. S. 319,
335-351, we recently dealt with problems of licenses and
royalties after a finding of Sherman Act violation. The
arrangements on account of which the companies manufacturing titanium pigments in that combination were
adjudged violators were as offensive to the prohibitions of
the Sherman Act as those proven in the present case.
Depending largely upon the discretion of the trial court,
we refused to modify the decree. It ordered the accused
patent owners to license all patents controlled by them
concerning titanium and titanium manufactures during

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

the succeeding five years at a reasonable royalty to be
fixed by the Court. Paragraphs 4 and 7 of that decree,
332 U. S. at 335-337.
The terms of the National Lead decree are somewhat
like those the Government asks here. In the present case
there should be no requirement of reciprocal grants. 332
U. S. 336.
We think that the United States Gypsum Company
should be required to license all its patents in the gypsum
products field to all applicants on equal terms. Whether
the term for compulsory licensing of new patents is to be
five years, or for a longer period with the privilege to the
appellees to move for a limitation for such new patents, as
provided in the suggested decree, Article VI, § 6, we leave
to the District Court. That court should provide for its
determination of a reasonable royalty either in each instance of failure to agree or by an approved form or by
any other plan in its discretion.
We disapprove the Government's suggestion that the
burden of establishing the reasonableness of the requested
royalty should be placed upon Gypsum by the decree.
We do not decide where the burden of proof of value lies
or who has the duty to go forward with the evidence in
any particular instance.
We disapprove the Government's suggestion, contained
in Article VI, § 5, that the decree shall not be taken as preventing an "applicant" (we construe this as meaning licensee) attacking the patent or as importing value to it.
We see no occasion for this unusual provision and think
it should be entirely omitted.1 5
We direct that Article VI of the decree be so modified
as generally to conform to the above suggestions.
1- Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., 317 U. S. 173; Edward
Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Metallic Mfg. Co., 329 U. S. 394; MacGregor v. Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., 329 U. S. 402; and cf.
Scott Paper Co. v. Marcalus Mfg. Co., 326 U. S. 249.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
76

Opinion of the Court.

We approve the Government's suggested provisions for
inspection of licensees' books and reports to licensor, substantially as set out in proposed Article VI, § 2 (c).
(g) The Government seeks access to the records and
personnel of the defendants for the purpose of advising
itself as to the defendants' compliance with the judgment. See proposed Article VIII. Construing the article as we did in United States v. Bausch & Lomb Co.,
321 U. S. 707, 725, n. 6, we think the request reasonable.
This article, or one of similar import, should be included
in the decree.
(h) We have noted the Government's contentions in
regard to the individual defendants, Avery, Knode,
Baker, Ebsary and Tomkins, and its suggestion that
Article III be modified so as to read "defendants" in the
first line, instead of "defendant companies." It is true
that these individuals signed the questioned agreements,
but they were acting as officials and we think the provisions of Article V bar them from engaging in similar
conspiracies.
(i) The Government asks that all costs be taxed
against the defendant companies. Article IX, proposed
decree; Article X, decree entered. We see no reason to
interfere with the discretion of the trial court in this
matter.
"With these general suggestions, the details and form
of the injunction can be more satisfactorily determined by
the District Court." "8 Its procedure for the settlement of
a decree is more flexible than ours. The decree is reversed
and the cause remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK believes that all the amendments
proposed by the Government to Article VI of the decree
" Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526, 533.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

are necessary to protect the public from a continuation of
monopolistic practices by United States Gypsum.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE CLARK took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
APPENDIX.
DISTRICT COURT DECREE OF NOVEMBER 7, 1949.

Preliminary Statement
This cause came on for trial before this Court on November 15, 1943. At the conclusion of plaintiff's presentation of the case, defendants moved, pursuant to
Rule 41 (b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, for
judgment dismissing the complaint on its merits. The
motion of defendants was granted August 6, 1946. The
judgment so rendered by this Court was reversed by the
Supreme Court of the United States, and the case was
remanded to this Court for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of the Supreme Court (333
U. S. 364).
Following the remand, the plaintiff, pursuant to Rule
56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, moved for
summary judgment in its favor upon the pleadings and
all of the proceedings which theretofore had been had
in the case, or, in the alternative, for such further proceedings as this Court might direct, and defendants, by
direction of the Court, filed proffers of proof.
Argument by counsel for the respective parties upon
the motion of plaintiff was heard by the Court, and after
due consideration of such argument and of defendants'
proffers of proof, Garrett, J. and Jackson, J., constituting
a majority of the Court, announced a ruling to the effect
that plaintiff's motion for summary judgment would be
granted, and Stephens, J., who presided during the trial,
announced his dissent from such ruling.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Thereafter counsel for plaintiff and counsel for certain
of the defendants submitted forms of final decrees for the
consideration of the Court and also suggested findings
of fact, the latter to be considered in the event the Court
should deem it necessary to make any findings of fact additional to those originally found by it and to those stated
in the opinion of the Supreme Court.
In due course, the Court heard arguments respecting
the proposed decrees and the suggested findings of fact,
and full consideration has been given thereto and to all
prior proceedings-all being considered in the light of
the decision of the Supreme Court which, as understood
by the majority of this Court, held that the defendants
acted in concert to restrain trade and commerce in the
gypsum board industry and monopolized said trade and
commerce among the several states in that section hereinafter referred to as the eastern territory of the United
States, which section embraces all the states of the United
States westward from the eastern coast thereof to the
Rocky Mountains and including New Mexico, Colorado,
Wyoming, and the eastern half of Montana.

PROVISIONS OF
DISTRICT COURT DECREE.

PROVISIONS OF
UNITED STATES' PROPOSED
DECREE.

[The articles of these decrees have been rearranged to facilitate
comparison.]
Article I
This Court has jurisdiction of
the subject matter hereof and of
the parties hereto. The complaint states a cause of action
against defendants under the Act
of Congress of July 2, 1890, entitled "An Act to Protect Trade
and Commerce Against Unlawful Restraints and Monopolies",
commonly known as the Sher-

Article I
This Court has jurisdiction of
the subject matter hereof and
of the parties hereto. The complaint states a cause of action
against defendants under the Act
of Congress of July 2, 1890, entitled "An Act to Protect Trade
and Commerce Against Unlawful Restraints and Monopolies,"
commonly known as the Sher-

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

man Anti-trust Act, and acts
amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto,

man Antitrust Act, and acts
amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto.

Article II
As used in this decree:
1. "Defendant companies"
shall mean all of the corporate
defendants and Samuel M.
Gloyd, doing business under the
name of Texas Cement Plaster
Company.
2. The "Patents" shall mean
United States Letters Patent and
applications for United States
Letters Patent owned by defendant United States Gypsum
Company which are described in
the Patent Licenses, as hereinafter defined, and continuations
in whole or in part, renewals, reissues, divisions, and extensions
thereof.
3. "Gypsum board" shall mean
plaster board or lath (including
perforated and metallized lath)
and wallboard (including metallized wallboard) made from gypsum and embodying any of the
inventions or improvements set
forth and claimed in any of the
Patents.
4. "Patent Licenses" s h a I I
mean the patent license agreements which were in effect between defendant United States
Gypsum Company and each of
the other defendant companies
at the time the complaint herein
was filed and described in said
complaint as follows: [Listed to
cover all.]

Article II
For the purposes of this judgment:
1. "Defendant companies"
shall mean all of the corporate
defendants and Samuel M.
Gloyd, doing business under the
name of Texas Cement Plaster
Company.
2. "Patents" shall mean United
States Letters Patent and applications for United States Letters
Patent relating to gypsum board,
its processes, methods of manufacture, or use, and continuations
in whole or in part, renewals,
reissues, divisions, and extensions
of any such patent or patent
application.
3. "Gypsum board" shall mean
plasterboard, lath, wallboard,
special surfaced board, sheathing, liner board (including any
such product which is perforated or metallized) made from
gypsum.
4. "Gypsum products" shall
mean gypsum board as defined
in the preceding paragraph, and
plaster, block, tile and Keene's
cement made from gypsum.
5. As used in Article IV, "license agreements" shall mean the
patent license agreements which
were in effect between defendant
United States Gypsum Company
and each of the other defendant
companies at the time the complaint herein was filed and described in said complaint as follows: [Listed to cover all.]

Article III
The defendant companies have
acted in concert in restraint of
trade and commerce among the
several states in the eastern territory of the United States to

Article III
The defendants have acted in
concert in restraint of trade and
commerce among the several
states in the eastern territory of
the United States to fix, main-

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.
fix, maintain and control the
prices of gypsum board and have
monopolized trade and commerce
in the gypsum board industry in
violation of sections 1 and 2 of
the Sherman Antitrust Act.

tain and control the prices of
gypsum board and have monopolized trade and commerce in the
gypsum board industry in violation of Sections 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Antitrust Act.

Article IV
Each of the license agreements
listed in Article II hereof is adjudged unlawful under the antitrust laws of the United States
and illegal, null and void.

Article IV
Each of the license agreements
listed in Article II hereof is adjudged unlawful under the antitrust laws of the United States
and illegal, null and void.

Article V
Each of the defendant companies and each of their respective officers, directors, agents,
employees, representatives, subsidiaries, and any person acting
or claiming to act under, through
or for them or any of them are
hereby enjoined and restrained
from
(1) the further performance or
enforcement of any of the provisions of the Patent Licenses,
including any price bulletin issued
thereunder;
(2) entering into or performing
any agreement or understanding
among the defendants or any of
them for the purpose or with the
effect of continuing, reviving or
reinstating
any
monopolistic
practice.
(3) entering into or performing
any agreement or understanding
among the defendants or any of
them in restraint of trade and
commerce in gypsum board
among the several states in the
eastern territory of the United
States by license agreements to
fix, maintain or stabilize prices
of gypsum board or the terms
and conditions of sale thereof.

Article V
The defendant companies, and
their respective officers, directors,
agents, employees, representatives, and subsidiaries, be and
each of them hereby is enjoined
from entering into or performing
any agreement or understanding
to fix, maintain, stabilize, or
make uniform, by patent license
agreements or by other concerted
action, the prices, or the terms or
conditions of sale of, gypsum
products sold or offered for sale
or resale in or affecting interstate commerce; and from engaging in, pursuant to such an
agreement or understanding, any
of the following acts or practices:
1. Fixing, maintaining or making uniform the kinds, types, or
varieties of gypsum products
manufactured or sold, or the
methods of manufacturing, selling, packaging, shipping, delivering or distributing gypsum products;
2. Refraining from the manufacture, sale or distribution of
any kind, type, or variety of gypsum products or the method of
manufacturing, selling, packaging, shipping, delivering or distributing gypsum products;
3. Agreeing upon or adhering
to any basis for the selection or
classification of purchasers of
gypsum products;

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

4. Refraining from selling gypsum products to any purchaser
or any class of purchasers;
5. Agreeing upon or adhering
to any system of selling or quoting gypsum products at prices
calculated or determined pursuant to a basing point delivered
price system or any other plan
or system which results in identical prices or price quotations
at given points of sale or quotation by defendants using such
plan or system;
6. P o 1i c i n g, investigating,
checking or inquiring into the
prices, quantities, terms or conditions of any offer to sell or sale
of gypsum products.
Article VI

Article VI

1. Defendant United States
Gypsum Company is hereby ordered and directed to grant to
each applicant therefor within 90
days after the effective date
hereof, but only in so far as it
has the right to do so, a non-exclusive license to make, use and
vend under any, some, or all patents and patent applications now
owned or controlled by it relating
to gypsum board, provided that
such license agreement fixes a
royalty not to exceed the royalty
of the same article or process
fixed in the license agreements set
out in Article II hereof.
2. Defendant United States
Gypsum Company is hereby enjoined and restrained from making any sale or other disposition
of any of said patents or patent
applications which would deprive
it of the power or authority to
grant such licenses, unless in any
sale, transfer or assignment it
shall be required that the purchaser, transferee or assignee
shall observe the provisions of
this section.

1. Defendant United States
Gypsum Company is hereby ordered and directed to grant to
each applicant therefor a nonexclusive license to make, use and
vend under any, some or all of
the patents now or hereafter
owned or controlled by it; and
is hereby enjoined from making
any sale or other disposition of
any of said patents which deprives it of the power or authority to grant such licenses, unless
it requires, as a condition of such
sale, transfer or assignment, that
the purchaser, transferee or assignee shall observe the requirements of Articles VI and VIII of
this judgment and unless the purchaser, transferee or assignee
shall file with this Court, prior
to consummation of said transaction, an undertaking to be bound
by said articles of this judgment.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

Article VIII
The forms of license agreement
which the Court has this day ordered filed herein are hereby approved; and the tender by defendant United States Gypsum
Company to each applicant for
a license agreement containing
the terms and conditions set forth
in the applicable filed form or
forms shall constitute compliance by defendant United States
Gypsum Company with the provisions of Article VI.

2. Defendant United States
Gypsum Company is hereby enjoined from including any restriction or condition whatsoever in
any license or sublicense granted
by it pursuant to the provisions
of this article except that (a) the
license may be nontransferable;
(b) a reasonable non-discriminatory royalty may be charged,
which royalty may not be imposed upon or measured by patent-free products, processes or
uses; (c) reasonable provisions
may be made for periodic inspection of the books and records of
the licensee by an independent
auditor or any person acceptable
to the licensee, who shall report
to the licensor only the amount
of the royalty clue and payable;
(d) reasonable provision may be
made for cancellation of the license upon failure of the licensee
to pay the royalty or to permit
the inspection of its books and
records as hereinabove provided;
(e) the license must provide that
the licensee may cancel the license at any time after one year
from the initial date thereof by
giving 30 days' notice in writing
to the licensor.
3. Upon receipt of written request for a license under the provisions of this article, defendant
United States Gypsum Company
shall advise the applicant in writing of the royalty which it deems
reasonable for the patent or patents to which the request pertains. If the parties are unable
to agree upon a reasonable royalty within 60 days from the date
such request for a license was received by United States Gypsum
Company, the applicant therefor
may forthwith apply to this
Court for the determination of
a reasonable royalty, and United

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

340 U. S.

States Gypsum Company shall,
upon receipt of notice of the filing of such application, promptly
give notice thereof to the Attorney General, who shall have the
right to be heard thereon. In
such proceeding, the burden of
proof shall be on United States
Gypsum Company to establish
the reasonableness of the royalty
requested by it, and the reasonable royalty rates, if any, determined by the Court shall apply
to the applicant and all other licensees under the same patent or
patents. Pending the completion
of any such proceeding the applicant shall have the right to
make, use and vend under the
patents to which his application
pertains without payment of royalty or other compensation except as provided in paragraph 4
of this article.
4. Where an application has
been made to this Court for the
determination of a reasonable
royalty under paragraph 3 of this
article, United States Gypsum
Company may apply to the
Court to fix an interim royalty
rate pending final determination
of what constitutes a, reasonable
royalty. If the Court fixes such
interim royalty rate, United
States Gypsum Company shall
then issue and the applicant shall
accept a license, or, as the case
may be, a sublicense, providing
for the periodic payment of royalties at such interim rate from
the date of the filing of such application by the applicant. If
the applicant fails to accept such
license or fails to pay the interim
royalty in accordance therewith,
such action shall be grounds for
the dismissal of his application.
Where an interim license or sublicense has been issued pursuant
to this paragraph, reasonable

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.

103

Appendix to Opinion of the Court.
royalty rates, if any, as finally
determined by the Court shall
be retroactive for the applicant
and for all other licensees under
the same patent or patents whose
licenses provide for a higher royalty rate to a date to be fixed by
the Court.
5. This judgment shall not be
construed (a) as preventing any
applicant from attacking, in this
proceeding or in any other proceeding, the validity or scope of
any patent of defendant United
States Gypsum Company, or (b)
as importing any validity or
value to any such patent.
6. At any time after five years
from the effective date of this
judgment
defendant
United
States Gypsum Company may
apply to this Court, after notice
to the Attorney General, for an
order limiting the application of
paragraph 1 of this Article to
patents coming under the ownership or control of the United
States Gypsum Company prior
to the date of such application;
and the Court, upon a showing
by United States Gypsum Company that the effects of defendants' combination have been dissipated and that competitive
conditions in the gypsum board
industry have been restored, shall
grant said application and enter
an order modifying paragraph 1
of Article VI of this judgment.
Article VII
Nothing contained in this decree shall be deemed to have any
effect upon the operations or activities of said defendants which
are authorized or permitted by
the Act of Congress of April 10,
1918, commonly called the WebbPomerene Act, or the Act of
Congress of August 17, 1937,
commonly called the Miller-Tyd-

Article VII
Nothing contained in this
judgment shall be deemed to have
any effect upon the operations or
activities of the defendants which
are authorized or permitted by
the Act of Congress of April 10,
1918, commonly called the WebbPomerene Act, or the Act of
Congress of August 17, 1937,
commonly called the Miller-

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

ings Act, or by any present or
future act of Congress or amendment thereto; provided, however, nothing contained in this
article shall in any manner affect
the provisions of Article VI of
this decree.

340 U. S.

Tydings Act, or by any present
or future act of Congress or
amendment thereto; provided,
however, nothing contained in
this article shall in any manner
affect the provisions of Article
VI of this judgment.
Article VIII
For the purpose of securing
compliance with this judgment,
authorized representatives of the
Department of Justice, upon
written request of the Attorney
General or an Assistant Attorney
General to any defendant company and upon reasonable notice,
shall be permitted, subject to any
legally recognized privilege, access during the office hours of
said defendant to all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence,
memoranda, and other records
and docunents in the possession
or under the control of said defendant relating to any matters
contained in this judgment. Any
authorized representative of the
Department of Justice shall be
permitted to interview officers or
employees of any defendant
company regarding any such
matters, subject to the reasonable convenience of said defendant but without restraint or interference from it; provided,
however, that such officer or employee may have counsel present.
No information obtained by the
means provided in this article
shall be divulged by any representative of the Department of
Justice to any person other than
a duly authorized representative
of such Department, except in
the course of legal proceedings to
which the United States is a
party for the purpose of securing
compliance with this judgment or
as otherwise required y law.

UNITED STATES v. GYPSUM CO.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.
Article X

Article IX

Judgment is entered against
the defendant companies for
50% of the costs to be taxed in
this proceeding, and the costs so
to be taxed are hereby prorated
against the several defendant
companies as follows: [Here follows allocation.]

Judgment is entered against the
defendant companies for all costs
to be taxed in this proceeding,
and the costs so to be taxed are
hereby prorated against the several defendant companies as follows: [Here follows allocation.]

Article IX

Article X

Jurisdiction of this cause, and
of the parties hereto, is retained
by the Court for the purpose of
enabling any of the parties to
this decree, or any other person,
firm or corporation that may
hereafter become bound thereby
in whole or in part, to apply to
this Court at any time for such
orders, modifications, vacations
or directions as may be necessary
or appropriate (1) for the construction or carrying out of this
decree, and (2) for the enforcement of compliance therewith.

Jurisdiction of this cause, and
of the parties hereto, is retained
by the Court for the purpose of
enabling any of the parties to
this judgment, or any other person, firm or corporation that may
hereafter become bound thereby
in whole or in part, to apply to
this Court at any time for such
orders, modifications, vacations
or directions as may be necessary
or appropriate (1) for the construction or carrying out of this
judgment, and (2) for the enforcement of compliance therewith and the punishment of violations thereof.

