OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

280 U. S.

given and without regard to any qualifying circumstances, is a tax by indirection upon the property, as
much, for example, as a tax upon the mere possession
by the owner of a farm, measured by the value of the
land possessed, would be a tax on the land. To call either
of them an excise is to sacrifice substance to a mere form
of words. I think, therefore, the first question certified,
without stopping to consider the second, should be
answered in the affirmative.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in this opinion.
EX PARTE NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

COMPANY

ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 2i, Original.

Return to rule presented November 25, 1929.Decided December 2, 1929.

In a suit in the District Court to restrain state officers, by interlocutory and permanent injunctions, from enforcing an order
affecting railway rates upon the ground that the order conflicts
with the Federal Constitution and laws, when the plaintiffs apply
for an interlocutory injunction on that ground and the district
judge grants a temporary restraining order to be effective until
,such application shall be determined, it is his duty under Jud.
Code, § 266, U. S. C. Title 28, § 380, immediately to call two other
judges, one of whom shall be a circuit justice or a circuit judge,
to assist him in hearing and determining such application, and
neither he, nor another district judge, in the presence of such
application and when it is being pressed, has jurisdiction, sitting
alone, to entertain a motion by the defense to dissolve the temporary restraining order or a motion by the defense to dismiss the
bill, or jurisdiction to dismiss the bill on the merits. P. 144.
PETITIONS for a rule directing the Honorable George
M. Bourquin and the Honorable Charles N. Pray, judges
of the District Court for the District of Montana, and the

EX PARTE NORTHERN PAC. R. CO.
142

143

Opinion of the Court.

District Court for that District, to show cause why a writ
of mandamus should not issue to set aside a decree dismissing the petitioners' bill of complaint, and further directing Judge Pray to call in two other judges to assist
him to hear and determine petitioners' application for an
interlocutory injunction. The case was heard on the original and supplemental petitions and the return to a rule
to show cause issued to the two judges. The rule is made
absolute.
Messrs. Bruce Scott, H. H.'Field, F. G. Dorety, M. S.
Gunn, and Dennis F. Lyons were on the brief for petitioners.
Messrs. L. A. Foot, Attorney General of Montana, and
FrancisA. Silver were on the brief for respondents.
Per Curiam: This is a petition for a writ of mandamus.
A rule to show cause was issued and a return has now
been made to the rule. From the petition and the return
the facts are shown to be as follows: The Northern Pacific Railway Company and three others brought a suit
in the District Court for the District of Montana against
the Board of Railroad Commissioners of that State and
others to prevent the enforcement of a rate order made
by the board, the 6bjection urged against the order being
that it was in conflict with the commerce clause of the
Constitution of the United States and with certain provisions of the commerce laws of Congress. The plaintiffs
applied for a temporary restraining order and for an interlocutory injunction. District Judge Pray granted a
temporary restraining order which was to continue in
force "until the plaintiffs' application for an interlocutory
injunction be heard and determined by three judges as
provided by statute." Afterwards, but before three
judges were assembled to hear the application for an in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

terlocutory injunction, District Judge Bourquin, sitting
alone, entertained a motion by the defendants,to dissolve
the temporary restraining order, and also a motion to dismiss the bill on the merits. The plaintiffs objected that
a single judge was without authority to entertain or act
upon either motion, but Judge Bourquin overruled the
objection, sustained the motion to dismiss and entered
a final decree of dismissal. Of course, the decree, if valid,
operated not only as a revocation of the temporary restraining order but also as a denial of the application
for an interlocutory injunction.
Manifestly the suit was within the terms and spirit of
§ 380, Title 28, of the United States Code. When Judge
Pray granted a temporary restraining order to be effective
until the application for an interlocutory injunction should
be heard and determined, it became his duty under that
section immediately to call two other judges, one of whomshould be either a circuit justice or a circuit judge, to
assist him in hearing and determining the application
for an interlocutory ihijunction, Not only so, but the
section as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 29,
43 Stat. 938, extends the requirement respecting the
presence of three judges to the final hearing in such a
suit. Under our decisions construing and applying the
section, Judge Bourquin sitting alone was without jurisdiction to hear either the motion to dissolve the temporary restraining order or the motion to dismiss the
bill on the merits. In the presence of the application for
an interlocutory injunction-which was at no time withdrawn but constantly pressed-a single judge, whether
Judge Pray or Judge Bourquin, was as much without
authority to dismiss the bill on the merits as he would
be. to grant either an interlocutory or a permanent injunction. Our decisions leave no doubt on these points.
Ex parte Metropolitan Water Company of West Virginia,
220 U. S. 539; Cumbeiland,Telephone & Telegraph Corn-

R. R. COMM'N v. LOS ANGELES R. CO.

145

Syllabus.

142

pany v. Louisiana Public Service Commission, 260 U. S.
212, 216-217; Virginian Railway Company v. United
States, 272 U. S. 658, 671-673; Ex parte Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co., 279 U. S. 822.
It follows that the rule against the respondents must be
made absolute with directions to them to vacate the decree
of dismissal entered by Judge Bourquin and to take immediate steps for assembling a court of three judges to
hear and determine the application for an interlocutory
injunction conformably to § 380. We assume it will not
be necessary to issue a f6rmal writ.
Rule made absolute.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
v. LOS ANGELES RAILWAY CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 60. Argued October 22, 1929.-Decided December 2, 1929.
1. A State may authorize a municipal corporation by agreement to
establish public service rates and thereby to suspend for a term
of years not grossly excessive the exertion of governmental power
by legislative action to fix just compensation to be paid for service
furnished by public utilities. P. 151.
2. To determine whether such authority has blen given in the case
before it, this Court, in the absence of decisions of the state courts,
must .onstrue the state laws. P. 152.
3. As it is in the public interest that till doubts be resolved, in favor
of the right of the State from time to time to prescribe rates, a
grant of authority to surrender the power is not to be inferred in
the absence of a plain expression of purpose to that end. Id.
4. The following laws of California are considered and held not to
have-authorized the City of Los Angeles to fix the rates of street
car companies by contract:
(1) Civil Code, § 470 (Mar. 21, 1872,) merely regulating procedure; id. § 497 (Stats. 1891, p. 12,) authorizing political subdivisions to grant authority for the laying of railroads in streets
"under such restrictions and limitations" as they may provide;
81 325 '-30-10

