INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. COMM'N.
234

Syllabus.

the amount allowed by the Commission for depreciation
has been in practice more than sufficient for all replacement requirements throughout the period of higher price
levels, and that the Company has declared and paid
dividends which were earned only if this depreciation
reserve was adequate.
To say that the- present price level is necessarily the
true measure of future replacement cost is to substitute
for a relevant fact which I should have thought ought
to be established as are other facts, a rule of law which
seems not to follow from Smyth v. Ames, and to be
founded neither upon experience nor expert opinion and
to be unworkable in practice. In the present case it can be
applied only by disregarding evidence which would seem
persuasively to establish the very fact to be ascertained.
INTERNATIONAL SHOE COMPANY v. FEDERAl
TRADE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 42.

Argued December 2, 3, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

Section 7 of the Clayton Act forbids one corporation to acquire
stock of another corporation (both being engaged in interstate
commerce), where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition between them or to restrain such
commerce in any section or community, and declares that it shall
not apply to corporations purchasing such stock solely for investment and not using the same to bring about the substantial
lessening of competition. Held:
(1) In a suit to enforce an order of the Federal Trade Commission
requiring one corporation to divest itself of the stock of another
alleged to have been acquired by the former in violation of this
section, findings of the Commission that substantial competition
existed between the two corporations at the time of such acquisition and that the effect of such acquisition was substantially to
lessen such competition and to restrain interstate commerce, can not
be accepted if not supported by the evidence. P. 297.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Statement of the Case.

280 U. S.

(2) The section forbids only such stock acquisitions as probably
will result in lessening competition to a substantial degree, i. e.,
to such a degree as will injuriously affect the public, and is inapplicable where there was no pre-existing substantial competition
to be affected. P'. 297.
(3) In the present case, it is plain that the products of the two
shoe-manufacturing companies in question, because of the difference in appearance and workmanship, appealed to the tastes of
entirely different classes of consumers; that while a portion of the
product of each company went into the same States, in the main
the product of each was in fact sold to a different class of dealers
and found its way into distinctly separate markets, so that, in
respect of 95 of the business, there was no competition in fact
and no contest, or observed tendency to contest, in the market
for the same purchasers; and when this is eliminated, what remains isof such slight consequence as to deprive the findiffg that
there was any substantial competition between the two corporations of any real support in the evidence. Pp. 296, 298.
(4) The existence of competition is a fact to be disclosed by observation rather than by the processes of logic; and the testimony
of the officers of the corporation proceeded against that there was
no real competition between it and the other in respect of the
products in question, is to be weighed like other testimony to
matters of fact, and, in the absence of contrary testimony or reason
for doubting the accuracy of observation or the credibility of the
witnesses, should be accepted. P. 299.
(5) In the case of a corporation with resources so depleted, and
the prospect of rehabilitation so remote, that it faces the grave.
probability of a business failure with resulting loss to its stockholders and injury to the communities where its piants are operated, the purchase of its, capital stock by a competitor (there being
no other prospective purchaser), not with a purpose to lessen
competition, but to facilitate the accumulated business of the purchaser and with the effect of mitigating seriously injurious consequences otherwise probable, is not in contemplation of law
prejudicial to the public and does not substantially lessen competition or -restrain commerce within the intent of the Clayton
Act. P. 301.
29 F. (2d) 518, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 832, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming on appeal an order of
the Federal Trade Commission.

INTERNAT. StIOE CO. v. COMM'N.
291

Opinion of the Coil.

Mr. Charles Nagel, with whoimi Messrs. Frank Y.
Gladney, R. E. Blake, and J. D. lVilliamson were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with
whom Solicitor General Hughes and Messrs. Charles H.
Weston, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
Robert E. Healy, Chief Counsel, Federal Trade Commission, and Baldwin B. Bane, Special Attorney, were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a proceeding instituted by complaint of the
Federal Trade Commission against petitioner charging a
violation of § 7 of the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730,
731 (U. S. C., Title 15, § 18), which provides:
"No corporation engaged in commerce shall acquire,
directly or indirectly, the whole or any part of the stock or
other share capital of another corporation engaged also in
commerce, where the effect of such acquisition may be to
substantially lessen competition between the corporation
whose stock is so acquired and the corporation making
the acquisition, or to restrain such commerce in any section or community, or tend to create a monopoly of any
line of commerce.
"This section shall not apply to corporations purchasing such stock solely for investment and not using the
same by voting or otherwise to bring about, or in attempting to bring about, the substantial lessening of competition."
The complaint charges that in May 1921, while petitioner and the W. H. McElwain Company were engaged
in commerce in competition with each other, petitioner
acquired all, or substantially all, of the capital stock of
the McElwain Company and still owns and controls the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of thc Court.

280 U. S.

same; that the effect of such acquisition was to substantially lessen competition between the two companies; to
restrain commerce in the shoe business in the localities
where both were engaged in business in interstate commerce; and to tend to create a monopoly in interstate
commerce in such business. The last named charge has
not been pressed and may be put aside. Upon a hearing
before the commission evidence was introduced from
which the commission found, (a) that the capital stock of
th McElwain Company had been acquired by the petitioner at the time charged in the complaint, (b) that the
two companies were at the time in substantial competition with one another, and (c) that the effect of the acquisition was to substantially lessen competition between
them and to restrain commerce. Thereupon the commission put down an order directing petitioner to divest
itself of all capital stock of the McElwain Company then
held or owned, directly or indirectly, by petitioner, and to
cease and desist from the ownership, operation, management and control of all assets acquired from the McElwain Company subsequent to the acquisition of the capital stock, etc., and to divest itself of all such assets, etc.
Upon appeal by petitioner to the court below the order
of the commission was affirmed. 29 Fed. (2d) 518.
The principal grounds upon which the order here is
assailed are (1) that there never was substantial competition between the two corporations, and, therefore, no
foundation for the charge of substantial lessening of competition; (2) that at the time of the acquisition the financial condition of the McElwain Company was such as to
necessitate liquidation or sale, and, therefore, the prospect
for future competition or restraint was entirely eliminated. Since, in our opinion, these grounds are determinative, we find it unnecessary to consider the challenge to the sufficiency of the complaint and other
contentions.

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. COMM'N.
291

Opinion of the Court.

First. Prior to the acquisition of the capital stock in
question the International Shoe Company was engaged in
manufacturing leather shoes of various kinds. It had a
large number of tanneries and factories and sales houses
located in several states. Its business was extensive, and
its products were shipped and sold to purchasers practically throughout the United States. The McElwain Company, a Massachusetts corporation with its principal office
in Boston, also manufactured shoes and sold and distributed them in several states of the Union. Principally, it
made and sold dress shoes for men and boys. The International made and sold a line of men's dress shoes of
various styles, which, although comparable in price, and
to some degree in quality, with the men's dress shoes produced by the McElwain Company, differed from them in
important particulars. Such competition as there was
between the two companies related alone to men's dress
shoes.
The findings of the commission that this competition
between the two companies was substantial and, by the
acquisition of the stock of the McElwain Company, had
been substantially lessened, the Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that they were fully supported by the evidence. Upon a careful review of the record we think the
evidence requires a contrary conclusion.
It is true that both companies were engaged in selling
dress shoes to customers for resale within the limits of
several of the, same states; but the markets reached by
the two companies within these states, with slight exceptions hereafter mentioned, were not the same. Certain
substitutes for leather were used to some- extent in the
making of the McElwain dress shoes; and they were
better finished, more attractive and modern in appearance, and appealed especially to city trade. The dress
shoes of the International were made wholly of leather
and were of a better wearing quality; but among the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

retailers who catered to city or fashionable wear, the
McElwain shoes were preferred. The trade policies of
the two companies so differed that the McElwain Company generally secured the trade of wholesalers and large
retailers; while the International obtained the trade of
dealers in the small communities. When requested, the
McElwain Company stamped the name of the customer
(that is the dealer) upon the shoes, which the International refused to do; and this operated to aid the
former company to get, as generally it did get, the trade
of the retailers in the larger cities. As an important
result of the foregoing circumstances, witnesses estimated
that about 95 per cent. of the McElwain sales were in
towns and cities having a population of 10,000 or o'er;
while about 95 per cent. of the sales of the International
were in towns having a population of 6,000 or less. The*
bulk of the trade of each company was in different sections of the country, that of the McElwain Company
being north of the Ohio River and east of the State of
Illinois, while that of the International was in the south
and west. An analysis of the sales of the International
for the twelve months preceding the acquisition of the
McElwain capital stock, discloses that in 42 states no
men's dress shoes were sold to customers of the McElwain
Company; and that in the remaining six states during
the same period a total of only 52-5/12 dozen pairs of
such shoes had been sold to sixteen retailers and three
wholesalers who were also customers of the McElwain
Company. This amounted to less than one-fourth of the
production of dress shoes by the International for a
single day, the daily production being about 250 dozen
pairs.
It is plain from the foregoing that the product of the
two companies here in question, because of the difference
in appearance and workmanship, appealed to the tastes
of entirely different classes of consumers; that while a

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. COMM'N.
291

Opinion of the Court.

portion of the product of both companies went into the
same states, in the main the product of each was in fact
sold to a different class of dealers and found its way into
distinctly separate markets. Thus it appears that in
respect of 95 per cent. of the business there was no competition in fact and no contest, or observed tendency to
contest, in the market for the same purchasers; and it is
manifest that, when this is eliminated, what remains is
of such slight consequence as to deprive the finding that
there was substantial competition between the two corporations, of any real support in the evidence. The rule
to be followed is stated in Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Curtis Co., 260 U. S. 568, 580:
"Manifestly, the court must inquire whether the Commission's findings of fact are supported by evidence. If
so supported, they are conclusive. But as the statute
grants jurisdiction to make and enter, upon the pleadings,
testimony and proceedings, a decree affirming, modifying or setting aside an order, the court must also have
power to examine the whole record and ascertain for itself the issues presented and whether there are material
facts not reported by the Commission. If there be substantial evidence relating to such facts from which different conclusions reasonably may be drawn, the matter
may be and ordinarily, we think, should be remanded
to the Commission-the primary fact-finding bodywith direction to make additional findings, but if from
all the circumstances it clearly appears that in the interest of justice the controversy should be decided without further delay the court has full power under the
statute so to do. The language of the statute is broad
and confers power of review not found in the Interstate
Commerce Act."
Section 7 of the Clayton-Act, as its terms and the
nature of the remedy prescribed plainly suggest, Was intended for the protection of the public against the evils

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

which were supposed to flow from the undue lessening
of competition. In Standard Oil Co. v. Federal Trade
Commission, 282 Fed. 81, 87, the Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit applied the test to the Clayton Act
which had theretofore been held applicable to the Sherman Act, namely, that the standard of legality was the
absence or presence of prejudice to the public interest by
unduly restricting competition or unduly obstructing the
due course of trade. In Federal Trade Comm'n v. Sinclair Co., 261 U. S. 463, 476, referring to the Clayton Act
and the Federal Trade Commission Act, this Court said:
"The great purpose of both statutes was to advance
the public interest by securing fair opportunity for the
play of the contending forces ordinarily engendered by
an honest desire for gain."
Mere acquisition by one corporation of the stock of a
competitor, even though it result in some lessening of
competition, is not forbidden; the act deals only with
such acquisitions as probably will result in lessening competition to a substantial degree, Standard Fashion Co.
v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S. 346, 357; that is to
say, to such a degree as will injuriously affect the public.
Obviously, such acquisition will not produce the forbidden result if there be no pre-existing substantial competition to be affected; for the public, interest is not concerned- in the lessening of competition, which, to begin
with, is itself without real substance. To hold that the
95 per cent. of the McElwain product, sold in the large
centers of population to meet a distinct demand for that
particular product, was sold in competition with the 95
per cent. of the International product, sold in the rural
sections and the small towns to meet a wholly different
demand, is to apply the word " competition" in a highly
deceptive sense. And if it be conceded that the entire
remaining five per cent. of each company's product (although clearly it was materially less than that) was sold

1NTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. COMM'N.
291

Opinion of the Court.

in competitive markets, it is hard to see in this, competition of such substance as to fall within the serious
purposes of the Clayton Act. Compare Industrial Ass'n
v. United States, 268 U. S. 64, 84.
In addition to the circumstances already cited, the
officers of the International testified categorically that
there was in fact no substantial competition between the
companies in respect of these shoes, but that at most
competition was incidental and so imperceptible that it
could not be located. The existence of competition is a
fact disclosed by observation rather than by the processes
of logic; and when these officers, skilled in the business
which they have carried on, assert that there was no real
competition in respect of the particular product, their
testimony is to be weighed like that in respect of other
matters of fact. And since there is no testimony to the
contrary and no reason appears for doubting the accuracy
of observation or credibility of the witnesses, their statements should be accepted.
It follows that the conclusion of the commission and
the court below to the effect that the acquisition of the
capital stock in question would probably result in a substantial lessening of competition must fail for lack of a
necessary basis upon which to rest.
Second. Beginning in 1920 there was a marked falling
off in prices and sales of shoes, as there was in other commodities; and, because of excessive commitments which
the McElwain Company had made for the purchase of
hides as well as the possession of large stocks of shoes and
an inability to meet its indebtedness for large sums of
borrowed money, the financial condition of the company
became such that its officers, after long and careful consideration of the situation, concluded that the company
was faced with financial ruin, and that the only alternatives presented were liquidation through a receiver or
an outright sale. New orders were not coming in; losses

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

2S0 U. S.

during 1920 amounted to over $6,000,000; a surplus in

May, 1920, of about $4,000,000 not only was exhausted,
but within a year had been turned into a deficit of $4,382,136.70. In the spring of 1921 the company owed
approximately $15,000,000 to some 60 or 70 banks and
trust companies, and, in addition, nearly $2,000,000 on
current account.

Its factories, which had a capacity of

38,000 to 40,000 pairs of shoes per day, in 1921 were producing only 6,000 or 7,000 pairs. An examination of its
balance sheets and statements and the testimony of its
officers and others conversant with the situation, clearly
shows that the company had reached the point where it
could no longer pay its debts as they became due. In the
face of these adverse circumstances it became necessary,
under the laws of Massachusetts, to make up its annual
financial statement, which, when filed, would disclose a
condition of insolvency, as that term is defined by the
statute and decisions of, the State, General Laws 1921,
c. 106, § 65 (3); Holbrook v. International Trust Co.,
220 Mass. 150, 155; Steele v. Commissioner of Banks,

240 Mass. 394, 397, and thus bring the company to the
point of involuntary liquidation. In this situation, dividends on second preferred and common stock were discontinued, and the first preferred stockholders were notified that the company was confronted with the necessity
of discontinuing dividends on that class of stock as well.
The condition of the International Company, on the
contrary, notwithstanding these adverse conditions in the
shoe trade generally, was excellent. That company had
so conducted its affairs that its surplus stock was not
excessive, and it was able to reduce prices. Instead of a
decrease, it had an increase of business of about 25 per
cent. in the number of shoes made and sold. During the
early months of 1921, orders exceeded the ability of the
company to produce, so that approximately one-third of

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. COMM'N.
291

Opinion of the Court.

them were necessarily canceled. In this situation, with
demands for its products so much in excess of its ability
to fill them, the International was approached by officers
of the McElwain Company with a view to a sale of its
property. After some negotiation, the purchase was
agreed upon. The transaction took the form of a sale
of the stock instead of the assets, not, as the evidence
clearly establishes, because of any desire or intention to
thereby affect competition, but because by that means
the personnel and organization of the McElwain factories
could be retained, which, for reasons that seem satisfactory, was regarded as vitally important. It is perfectly
plain from all the evidence that the controlling purpose
of the International in making the purchase in question
was to secure additional factories, which it could not
itself build with sufficient speed to meet the pressing
requirements of its business.
Shortly stated, the evidence establishes the case of a
corporation in failing circumstances, the recovery of
which to a normal condition was, to say the least, in
gravest doubt, selling its capital to the only available
purchaser in order to avoid what its officers fairly concluded was a more disastrous fate. It was suggested by
the court below, and also here in ar-ument, that instead
of an outright sale, any one of severa alternatives might
have been adopted which would have saved the property
and preserved competition; but, as it seems to us, all of
these may be dismissed as lying wholly within the realm
of speculation. The company might, as suggested, have
obtained further financial help from the banks, with a
resulting increased load of indebtedness which the company might have carried and finally paid, or, on the other
hand, by the addition of which, it might more certainly
have been crushed. As to that, one guess is as good as
the other. It might have availed itself of a receivership,

302

OCTOBER TERM, 129.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

but no one is wise enough to predict with any degree of
certainty whether such a course W'ould have meant ultimate recovery or final and complete collapse. If it had
proceeded, or been proceeded against, under the Bankruptcy Act, holders of the preferred stock might have
paid or assumed the debts and gone forward with the
business; or they might have considered it more prudent
to accept whatever could be salvaged from the wreck and
abandon the enterprise as a bad risk.
As between these and all other alternatives, and the
alternative of a sale such as was made, the officers, stockholders and creditors, thoroughly familiar with the factors
of a critical situation and more able than commission or
court to foresee future contingencies, after much consideration, felt compelled to choose the latter alternative.
There is no reason to doubt that in so doing they exercised a judgment which was both honest and well informed; and if aid be needed to fortify their conclusion,
it may be found in the familiar presumption of rightfulness which attaches to human conduct in general. Bank
of the U. S. v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, 69. Aside from
these considerations, the soundness of the conclusion
which they reached finds ample confirmation in the facts
already discussed and others disclosed by the record.
In the light of the case thus disclosed .of a corporation
with resources so depleted and the prospect of rehabilitation so remote that it faced the grave probability of a
business failure with resulting loss to its stockholders
and -injury to the communities where its plants were
operated, we hold that the purchase of its capital stock
by a Competitor (there being no other prospective purchaser), not-with a purpose to lessen competition, but to
facilitate the accumulated business of the purchaser and
with the effect of mitigbting -seriously injurious consequences otherwise probable, is not in contemplation of
law prejudicial to the public and does not substantially

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. COMM'N.
291

STONE,

J., dissenting.

lessen competition or restrain commerce within the intent of the Clayton Act. To regard such a transaction
as a violation of law, as this Court suggested in United
States v. U. S. Steel Corp., 251 U. S. 417, 446-447, would
"seem a distempered view of purchase and result," See
also American Press Ass'n v. United States, 245 Fed. 91,
93-94.
For the reasons appearing under each of the two foregoing heads of this opinion, the judgment below must be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

That the facts found by the Commission are a violation of § 7 of the Clayton Act is not questioned. Under
§ 11, 38 Stat. 730, (U. S. C., Title 15, § 21), the findings of
the Commission "if supported by testimony" and the
inferences which it may reasonably draw from the facts
proved or admitted, are conclusive upon us. See Federal Trade Commission v. Pacific Paper Ass'n, 273 U. S.
52. Congress has thus forbidden the substitution of the
judgment of courts for that of the Commission where it
is founded upon evidence. Conforming to this requirement I cannot say that its conclusions here lack the prescribed support. Even without such statutory limitation
this Court will not set aside the findings of an administrative board or commission, upheld, as in the present
case, by the reviewing court below, unless the record establishes that clear and unmistakable error has been committed. Cincinnati,&c. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm., 206 U. S. 142, 154; Cincinnati,N. 0. & T. Ry. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm., 162 U. S. 184, 194; Illinois
Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 206 U. S.
441, 466.
The opinion of the Court and the general testimony of
petitioner's officers of their conclusions that there was no
competition between the two corporations (see United

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

280 U. S.

States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392) seem
to proceed on the assumption that manufacturers, each
engaged in marketing a product comparable in price and
adapted to the satisfaction of the same need, do not compete if they do not sell to the same distributors.
Without stating it in detail, there appears to me to be
abundant evidence that the competitive products, made
by two of the largest shoe manufacturers in the world,
reached the same local communities through different
agencies of distribution; the one, of petitioner, through
sales directly to retailers throughout the United States,
the other, of the McElwain Company, through sales in
thirty-eight states, chiefly to wholesalers located in cities,
who in turn sold to the retail trade. From detailed evidence of this type the Commission drew, as I think it
reasonably might, the inference that the rival products,
through local retailers, made their appeal to the same
buying public and so were competitive. From a comparative study of the statistics of sales, the Commission
might also, I think, reasonably have found that the McElwain Company was successfully competing, by securing
by far the larger proportion of the trade in this type of
shoe, its gross sales of dress shoes in 1920 being more than
$33,000,000 and in 1921 more than $15,000,000, as compared with petitioner's sales of its similar dress shoes of
approximately $2,500,000.
No useful purpose would be served by reviewing the
evidence at length. To refer to only two of the many
items which support the findings of the Commission, the
fact relied upon, that petitioner, in the year ending May
31, 1921, sold only 52-5/12 dozen pairs of the competing
shoes to dealers patronizing the McElwain Company,
would seem to be without significance in the light of other
evidence that in one state, Missouri, where petitioner
sold its product to 4,801 of the 5,150 retail shoe dealers
in the state, the McElwain Company sold in the same

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. COMM'N.
291

STONE,

J., dissenting.

year, chiefly through wholesalers and independent jobbers, 25,669 dozen pairs of the competing product. It
appears that in 1921 petitioner sold its shoes to every
retailer in Kentucky, Tennessee and Texas. In that year,
when the value of the gross sales of the McElwain Compan y had been cut in half by business depression, it sold
in those states 8,791 dozen pairs of its competing product,
chiefly. through independent jobbers, in addition to its
sales in that territory through wholesale houses at Columbus, Ohio, and Chicago.
Apart from the more general testimony that both companies sold extensively in the same states and in the
same cities, the inference from this evidence seems irresistible that in these states, as was the case in others,*
the competing products were not only offered through
different systems of distribution to the same retailers,
but were by them offered and sold to the ultimate consumers in their communities. Both prodhlcts being made
and suitable for the same use, the fact that each presented
some minor advantages over the other, it might reasonably be inferred, would tend to increase, rather than
diminish the competition. In fact, the chairman of petitioner's board of directors testified that its 500 salesmen
were unsuccessful in their efforts to increase the sales of
its Patriot Brand of dress shoes (the alleged competitive
product) above about 3,000 pairs a day because they were
unable to convince retailers of the superiority of petitioner's more serviceable dress shoes ovei the better
The petitioner sold to three retail dealers in every four in Illinois.
The McElwain Company sold 9547 dozen pairs of competing shoes to
independent jobbers and retailers in that state. In addition, an affiliated wholesale house located in Chicago sold about 18,000 dozen pairs.
In California, where the International Shoe Company sold to seven
retail dealers in every ten, the McElwain Company sold 1586 dozen
pairs to retailers and independent 'jobbers; and an affiliated wholesaler located at San Francisco sold, almost wholly within the state,
about 10,000 dozen pairs of the competing shoes,
81325O-3

0

-2

0

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

looking dress shoes of the type manufactured by the
McElwain Company.
Nor am I able to say that the McElwain Company,
for the stock of which petitioner gave its own stock having a market value of $9,460,000, was then in such financial straits as to preclude the reasonable inference by the
Commission that its business, conducted either through
a receivership or a reorganized company, would probably
continue to compete with that of petitioner. See Standard Fashion Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S. 346,
356, 357. It plainly had large value as a going concern,
there was no evidence that it would have been worth more
or as much if dismantled, and there was evidence that the
depression in the shoe trade in 1920-1921 was then a
passing phase of the business. For these reasons and
others stated at length in-the opinion of the court below,
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS con-

cur in this opinion.

WILBUR, SECRETARY

UNITED STATES

OF THE INTERIOR, v.
EX REL.

KRUSHNIC.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA. ,

No. 63. Argued December 6, 9, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.
1. Under the General Mining Law, a perfected location of a mining
claim has the effect of a grant by the United States of the right
of present and exclusive possession, and so long as the owner
complies with that law, this right, for all practical purposes of
ownership, is as good as though secured by a patent. P. 316.
2. Failure to perform -the annual labor (Rev. Stats. § 2324; U. S. C.,
Title 30, § 28) renders the claim subject to loss through relocation
by another claimant, but it does not ipso facto forfeit the claim,
and no relocation can be made if work be resumed by the owner
after default and before such relocation. P. 317.

