OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA
v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 23.

Argued October 25, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

Proof that a building close to a railway track took fire soon after
the passing of a train does not suffice to show that the fire was

caused by sparks from the engine and to raise a presumption
of negligence against the railway company in an action for damages

caused by the fire. So held in accordance both with rulings of
the Supreme Court of the State of Washington where the fire
occurred

and the action was brought, and with rulings of the

federal courts. P. 76.
28 F. (2d) 574, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 827, to review a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment
of the District Court granting a non-suit against the
plaintiff, the present petitioner, in an action for damages
caused by fire alleged to have resulted from negligence
of the defendant Railway Company.

Mr. Ralph S. Pierce presented the oral argument, and
Messrs. James B. Howe, Donald-G. Graham, and James
B. Howe, Jr., filed a brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Dennis F. Lyons, with whom Mr. L. B. daPonte
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The General Insurance Company of America, a Washington corporation, issued to Peter Agor, a citizen and
resident of the State of Washington, two policies for
$12,000 each, insuring him against loss or damage by fire

GEN. INS. CO. v. N. P. RY.
72

Opinion of the Court.

to wool and sacks contained in a warehouse situated in
Benton County, Washington. While the policies were
in full force, the warehouse and the wool' and sacks contained therein were destroyed by a fire, which started on
the 2nd of May, 1926, sometime between 7 and 10 o'clock
in the evening.
Thereafter the Insurance Company made two payments
to Agor, totalling $20,481.90, in discharge of its liability
to him under the policies.. May 14, 1926, Agor executed
"subrogation receipts" to the Insurance Company, in
which he acknowledged receipt of the sum above mentioned in full settlement of his claims against the Company for loss and damage caused by the fire, and by which
he assigned and transferred to the Insurance Company his
claims against any person or corporation which might
arise due to the loss and damage sustained by him, and'
by which the Company was subrogated to the extent of
the amount paid to him.
Then the Insurance Company brought this action in
the United States District Court for the Western District
of Washington, alleging, in its amended complaint, a cause
of action against the Railway Company under each policy
and subrogation receipt, for the amount paid to Agor, with
interest, on the ground that the loss was due to the negligence of the Railway Company in operating its railroad.
The Railway Company denied that it was responsible
for the fire or was guilty of negligence in respect to it.
Trial was had; four witnesses were sworn and examined for the plaintiff, and the plaintiff rested. The counsel
'for the defendant moved for a non-suit. The motion was
granted and a judgment of dismissal entered. This was
on the ground that the plaintiff had failed to indicate any
facts sufficient to show negligence on the part of the defendant as alleged, or at all. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U.S.

The facts were that the fire occurred at Badger in the
State of Washington. Badger was a small station on the
North.ern Pacific Railway southeast of Seattle, on the
main line of the Company. The warehouse which burned
was 40 or 50 feet from the main tracks. The warehouse
was possibly 50 feet wide and 200 feet long. The country
about was sand and sagebrush. There was no blowing of
the wind testified to, except at noon of the day of the fire.
The fire was between half-past seven. and ten in the evening. There was no wind in the evening: A freight train
of 70 cars passed going south between those hours. It
was a double-header.' Between Badger and the previous
station, 7 miles away, there was a stiff upgrade from
north to south, and there was a good deal of puffing and
smoke between the two stations. The evidence is quite
clear, however, that for a measurable distance before the
train reached Badger the grade was either on the level or
down hill. There was no evidence of the presence of
sparks from the engine at the time of the fire or during
the evening. About twenty minutes after the train had
passed Badger .the fireman looked back and remarked to
the engineer that there seemed to be a fire burning up all
Badger. Badger was a lonely station. There was no
station house there. There were only three employees of
the Railway Company there and only thre or four shacks
beside the warehouse. The fire occurred Sunday evening.
The chief witne'ss called by the Insurance Company
testified he went to bed about eight o'clock, that he was
waked by the section foreman about ten o'clock. The fire
had begun at the southwest corner of the warehouse some
50 feet away from the track, and when he saw it it was
climbing from the ground up. The two or three 'Men who
were present were not able to do anything to put the fire
out, and the building continued to burn until the next
day. There is no other evidence of the circumstances

GEN. INS. CO. v. N. P. RY.
72

Opinion of the Court.

under which the fire took place. The warehouse was one
which could be opened by a key that was usually left in
the lock or in a hole near the door. There was evidence
that there were people who resorted to the warehouse and
slept there at times-sheep-shearers and others; but no
testimony shows that at the time of the fire there was any
blowing of tumble-weeds or other things which would
convey fire. This is a case in which if negligence is to
be presumed, it must arise from the mere passing of the
train followed by a fire. Nothing shows negligence by
the engineer, the fireman or the employees of the Railway
Company. No one is able to suggest what it was that
started the fire. There were many rat's in the warehouse.
There had been vagrants around it. At times people had
seen tumble-weeds blown about in a wind, but nothing
of this kind indicates an occasion for a fire at the time
when it took place.
Counsel differ as to the law which should govern' the
decision in this case, whether Washington or Federal
(so-called).. In our -judgment, it makes no difference.
A leading case in Washington is that of Thorgrimson
v. Northern Pacific R. Co., 64 Wash. 500. That was. an
action for damages by the owner of a roofing plant situated about 80 feet south of the main line of the railway
company, and the theory of the suit was that the railway
company had negligently operated its train past the plant
'and caused the fire which destroyed the property of the
plaintiff.
The Supreme Court of the State said [p. 502]:
" The rule putting the burden on the railway company
to explain the cause of a fire following a passing engine,
to which this court is probably committed (Overacker v.
Northern Pac. R. Co., ante, [64 Wash.] p. 491, 117 Pac.
403), and which counsel relied on to carry the case to the
jury on questions of equipment and operation, is one of

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

necessity, and is applied so that justice may not be defeated.

But we know of no cases going to the extent to

which counsel would have us go to sustain their contention; that is, to presume negligence from the mere passing of the train followed by a fire. It is the proof of
setting the fire, and not the fact that a building adjacent
to a railroad right of way was burned, that raises the
infereilce of negligence and shifts the burden of proof.
In all the cases we have examined, including those from
our own court, where the burden has been shifted from
plaintiff to defendant, there has been some evidence
from which the jury might infer with reasonable certainty
that the fire would not have occurred unless set by the
passing train. Counsel admitted on the trial and appellants now admit that they have no evidence other than
circumstantial evidence."
The facts of the case before us do not show anything
more than the passing of the train and the existence of
fire fifteen or twenty minutes afterwards. No connection
is shown between the fire and the passing of the train
except that of sequence. The principles of the Washington case cited would require a non-suit in this case.
Nor are the Federal cases any more favorable to the
petitioner. In McCullen v. Chicago & Northwestern R.
Co., 101 Fed. 66, the action was to recover the value of
property said to have been set on fire by sparks from the
passing train on the defendant's road. The evidence was
conflicting and the effect of the decision was that where
there was conflicting evidence as to whether the fire was

set by sparks from a passing train, the case should be
held to be one for a jury, and one in which a presumption
would arise from the fact of causing the fire that there
was negligence to be charged to the company. But that

case differs from the one at bar, for the reason that there

GEN. INS. CO..v. N. P. RY.
72

Opinion of the Court.

was evidence there that the fire was occasioned by sparks
from the engine. No such evidence appears here. There
is entire absence of evidence here that the fire was created
by the presence of any sparks.
Another Federal case is that of Garrett v. Southern R.
Co., 101 Fed. 102. It was there held by the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit that in an action against
a railroad company for damages from fire alleged to have
been set by sparks from the defendant's locomotive, the
burden was on the plaintiff to prove not only that the
fire was caused by sparks from the defendant's engine
but that the emission of such sparks was due to defendant's negligence.
In the present case we need not go so far. Both the
circumstances that sparks caused the fire and that their
presence was due to the negligence of the railroad company are absent. The case comes exactly within the
rule laid down by this Court in the Nitro-Glycerine case,
15 Wall. 524, 538, where Mr. Justice Field said:
"Outside of -these cases in which a positive obligation
is cast upon the carrier to perform safely a special service, the presumption is that the party has exercised such
care as men of ordinary prudence and caution would
exercise under similar circumstances, and if he has not,
the plaintiff must prove it. Here no such proof was
made and the case stands as one of unavoidable accident,
for the consequences of, which the ,defendants are not
responsible. The consequences of all such accidents must
be borne by the sufferer as his misfortune."
We think the trial judge was right in granting a nonsuit and the Circuit Court of Appeals in affirming it.
Judgment affirmed.

