OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

investment presupposes that the business is to go on, and
therefore even if there are net earnings, the holder of
stock, preferred as well as common, is entitled to have a
dividend declared only out of such part of them as can
be applied to dividends consistently with a wise administration of a going concern. When, as was the case here,
the dividends in each fiscal year were declared to be noncumulative and oo net income could be so applied within
the fiscal year referred to in the certificate, the right for
that year was gone.
If the right is extended further
upon some conception of policy, it is enlarged beyond the
meaning of the contract and the common and reasonable
understanding of men.
Decree reversed.
THE FARMERS LOAN & TRUST COMPANY, EXECUTOR, v. MINNESOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 26.

Argued October 30, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. The maxim mobilia sequuntur personarn applies to negotiable
bonds and certificates of indebtedness issued by a State or her
municipality, as to ordinary choses in action, and they have situs
for taxation-in this case a testamentary transfer tax-at the
domicile of their owner. P. 209.
2. When negotiable bonds and certificates of indebtedness issued by a
State or her municipality and not used in business in that State,
are owned, at the time of his death, by a person domiciled in
another State in which they are kept, an attempt of the State in
which they were issued to tax their transfer by inheritance is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. Blackstone v. Miller, 188
U. S. 189, overruled. P. 209.
3. Existing conditions imperatively demand protection of choses in
action against multiplied taxation, whether following misapplication of some legal fiction or conflicting theories concerning the
sovereign's right to exact contributions. P. 212.
4. Taxation is an intensely practical matter and laws in respect of
it should be construed and applied with a view of avoiding, so
far as possible, unjust and oppressive consequences. Id.

FARMERS LOAN CO. v. MINNESOTA.
204

205

Argument for Appellant.

5. The Court can find no sufficient reason for saying that intangible
property is not entitled to enjoy an immunity from being taxed
at more than one place similar to that accorded to tangible property. P. 212.
6. This case does not present the question whether choses in action
that have acquired a situs for taxation other than at the domicile
of their owner through having become integral parts of some
local business, may be taxed a second time at his domicile. P. 213.
176 Minn. 634, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota upholding an inheritance tax. See also 175
Minn. 310; id. 314.
Mr. Cleon Hcadley, with whom Messrs. Frank B. Kellogg and George W. Morgan were on the brief, for appellant.
The recent decisions of this Court disclose a definite
tendency to draw away from any theoretical conceptions
respecting situs of property for taxation purposes which
have the hnomalous and unjust results of localizing property in more than one place at a time. In Union Transit
Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, the situs of tangibl6 property for property tax purposes was held to be the place
where the property is in fact and nowhere else. In Frick
v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, the same holding was made
with respect to the situs of physical personal property for
inheritance tax purposes, though this holding was contrary to an earlier dictum of this Court (Blackstone v.
Miller, 188 U. S. 189) anid probably to the then general
understanding and practice of state taxing authorities.
Reason and justice require that one situs, and not several, be given to all property, whether tangible or intangible.
The case of Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, establishes that, because of the deeply rooted maxim mobilia
sequuntur personam, public securities must still be re-

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for Appellee.

280 U. S.

garded as having a tax situs at the domicile of their owner,
no matter where the securities themselves are. In view
of this decisipn, it might indeed be well if the owner's
domicile wer6 held to be their single situs irrespective of
all other circumstances. But certainly if they are to be
given any additional situs it should be only in the State
where the securities are ifn
fact kept, since in the business
world such securities are universally treated and dealt
with as tangible property. We submit that under no
proper theory should such property be held to have still
a third situs in the State of the bi -, olely by reason
of the fact that the bond debtor resides there. In our
case, as has been .pointed out, the place of the bonds and
the domicile of their owner were in the same State, viz.,
New York. Under such circumstances New York is the
single situs of these bonds for either property or inheritance tax purposes, and in the present estate, New York
has properly availed itself of its power by taxing their
transfer.
Mr. G. A. Youngquist, Attorney General of Minnesota,
with whom Mr. John F. Bonner, Assistant Attorney General, was on the-brief, for appellee.
The tax is not upon property, but upon the right or
privilege of transfer granted by the State. State ex rel.
iraff v. Probate Court, 128 Minn. 371; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 25O U. S. 525' Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41;
United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625; Mager v. Grima,
.8Hovw. 490.
Minnesota has jurisdiction .to tax the transfer of credits
owed by persons or corporations domiciled within its borders, or otherwise within its control, regardless of the
domicile of the creditor. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.
189. Seu also Baker v. Baker, Eccles & Co., 242 U. S. 394;
Frick v.'Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 491; Wyman v. Hal8tead, 109 U. S. 654; Chicago R. I. & P..R. Co. v. Sturm,

FARMERS LOAN CO. v. MINNESOTA.
204

Argument for Appellee.

174 U. S. 710; Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Board of
Assessors, 221 U. S. 346. Distinguishing Rhode Island
Tr. Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S.69.
The cases of Blackstone v. Miller and Blodgett v. Silberman are decisive of the case at bar. In the first it was
held that the transfer of a bank deposit and a simple debt
was taxable by the State of the debtor's domicile because
they were intangible property, choses in action In the
second it was held that debts evidenced by public bonds
are intangible property, choses in action. In combination
they hold that the transfer of debts evidenced by public
bonds is taxable at the debtor's domicile.
One tax is not invalidated by the imposition of another
upon the same transfer. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S.
189. But if intangibles were to have a single situs for the
purpose of a property tax or of a transfer.tax, or only one
additional to that at the domicile of the owner, that situs
should be the domicile of the debtor. 31 Harv. L. Rev.
930, 931.
Payment of the bonds is provided for and can be enforced only through the laws of Minnesota.
Registration and place of payment are immaterial on
question of situs. Wyman v. Halstead, 109 U. S.654.
Other States support appellee's position. Chaffin v.
Johnson, 200 Ia. 89; In re Rogers Estate, 149 Mich. 305.
The State of the debtor protects the debt, compels its
payment, and permits its transfer. Every canon of logic
and of justice supports the policy of that State to exact
tribute from testator or beneficiary upon the transfer as a
single succession. The principle should not be obscured
by theoretical discussions of technical situs. To paraphrase the language in Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Barber
Asphalt Paving Co., 197 U. S.430, and Wheeler v. Sohmer, 233 U. S.434, it is7 important that the Court "avoid
extracting from the very general language of the Fourteenth Amendment a system of delusive exactness in

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

order to destroy methods of taxation," and that it exercise "caution in cutting, down the power of the States"
on the strength of that Amendment.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Henry R. Taylor, while domiciled and residing in New
York, died testate, December 4, 1925. He had long
owned 'and kept within that State negotiable bonds and
certificates of indebtedness issued by the State of Minnesota-and the Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul, worth
above $300,000. Some of these were registered, others
were payable to bearer. None had.any connection with
business carried on by or for the decedent in Minnesota.
All passed under his will which whs probated in New
York. There also his estate was administered and a tax
exacted upon the testamentary transfer.
Minnesota assessed an inheritance tax upon the same
transfer. Her Supreme Court approved this and upheld
the validity of the authorizing statute. The executorappellant-claims that, so construed and applied, that
enactment conflicts with the Fourteenth Amendment.
When this cause first came before the Supreme Court
of Minnesota it held negotiable public obligations were
something more than mere evidences of debt and, like
tangibles, taxable only at the place where found, regardless of the owner's domicile. It accordingly denied the
power of that State to tax the testamentary transfer.
After Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S.1, upon a rehearing, considering that cause along with Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, it felt obliged to treat the bonds and
certificates like ordinary choses in action and to uphold
the assessment.
Registration of certain of the bonds we regard as an
immaterial circumstance. So did the court below.
Counsel do not maintain otherwise.

FARMERS LOAN CO. v. MINNESOTA.

209

Opinion of the Court.

204

Under Blodgett v. Silberman the obligations here involved were rightly regarded as if ordinary choses in
action. The maxim mobilia sequuntur personam applied
and gave them situs for taxation in New York-the owner's domicile. The testamentaiy transfer was properly
taxed there. This is not controverted.
But it is said the obligations were debts of Minnesota
and her corporations, subject to her control; that her laws
gave them validity, protected them and provided means
for enforcing payment. Accordingly, counsel argue that
they had situs for taxation purposes in that State and
maintain the validity of the challenged assessment.
Blackstone v. Miller, supra, and certain approving
opinions, lend support to the doctrine that ordinarily
choses in action are subject to taxation both at the debtor's domicile and at the domicile of the creditor; that
two States may tax on different and more or less inconsistent principles the same testamentary transfer of such
property without conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. The inevitable tendency of that view is to disturb
good relations among the States and produce, the kind
of discontent expected to subside after establishment of
the Union. The Federalist, No. VII. The practical effect of it has been bad; perhaps two-thirds of the States
have endeavored to avoid the evil by resort to reciprocal'
exemption laws. It has been stoutly assailed on principle. Having reconsidered the supporting arguments in
the light of our more recent opinions, we are compelled
to declare it untenable. Blackstone v. Miller .no longer
can be regarded as a correct exposition of existing law;
and to prevent misunderstanding it is definitely overruled.
Four different views concerning the situs for taxation
of negotiable public obligations have been advanced.
One fixes this at the. domicile of the owner; another at
the debtor's domicile; a third at the place where the in81325 °-30-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

struments are found-physically present; and the fourth
within the jurisdiction where the owner has caused them
to become intpgral parts of a localized business. If each
State can adopt any one of these and tax accordingly,
obviously, the same bonds may be declared present for
taxation in two, or three, or four places at the same
moment. Such a startling possibility suggests a wrong
premise.
In this Court the presently approved doctrine is that
no State may tax anything not within her jurisdiction
without violating the Fourteenth Amendment. State
Tax on Foreign Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Union Refrig.
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U.' S. 194; Safe Deposit &
Trust Co. v. Virginia, ante,' p. 83. Also no State can
tax the testamentary transfer of property wholly beyond
her power, Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270
U. S. 69, or impose death duties reckoned upon the value
(,: tangibles permanently located outside her limits.
Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473. These principles
became definAely settled subsequent to Blackstone v.
-Miller and are out of harmony with the reasoning advanced to support the conclusion there announced.
At this time it cannot be assumed that tangible chattels
permanently located within another State may be treated
as part of the universal succession and taken into account
when estimating the succession tax laid at the decedent's
domicile. Frick v. Pennsylvania is to the contrary.
Nor is it permissible broadly to say that notwithstanding the Fourteenth Amendment two States have power
to tax the same personalty on different and inconsistent
principles or that a State always may tax according to
the fiction that in successions after death mobilia
sequuntur personam and domicile govern the whole.
Union Refrig. Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra, Rhode
Island Trust Co. v. Doughton, supra, and Safe Deposit
& Trust Co. v. Virginia, supra, stand in opposition.

FARMERS LOAN CO. v. MINNESOTA.
204

211

Opinion of the Court.

Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63, indicates plainly enough that the right of one State to tax
may depend somewhat upon the power of another so to
do. And Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 524, though frequently cited to support the general affirmation that
nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits double
taxation, does not go so far. It affirmed the rather obvious proposition that the mere fact of taxation of
tangibles by one State is not enough to exclude the right
of another to tax them.
"If the owner of personal property within a State resides in another State which taxes him for that property
as part of his general estate attached to his person, this
action of the latter State does not in the least affect the
right of the State in which the property is situated to
tax it also. . . . The fact, therefore, that the owners
of the logs in question were taxed for their value in Maine
as'a part of their general stock in trade, if such fact were
proved, could have no influence in the decision of the case
and may be laid out of view."
If Maine undertooi to tax logs permanently located in
another State, she transcended her legitimate powers.
Union Refrig. Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra. Of course,
such action could not affect New Hampshire's rights in
respect of property localized within her limits.
While debts have no actual territorial situs we have
ruled that a State may properly apply the rule mobilia
sequuntur personam and treat them as localized at the
creditor's domicile for taxation purposes. Tangibles with
permanent situs therein, and their testa'mentary transfer,
may be taxed only by the State where they are found.
And, we think, the general reasons declared sufficient to
inhibit taxation of them by two States apply under
present circumstances with no less force to intangibles
with taxable situs imposed by due application of the legal
fiction. Primitive conditions have passed; busnes i

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

now transacted on a national scale. A very large part of
the country's wealth is invested in negotiable securities
whose protection against discrimination, unjust and oppressive taxation, is matter of the greatest moment.
Twenty-four years ago Union Refrig. Transit Co. v. Kentucky, :s~pra, declared-, . . . in view of the enormous ierease of •.such property [tangible personalty]
since the introduction of railways and the growth of manufactures, the tendency has-been in recefit years to treat
it as having a situs of its own for the purpose of taxation,
and correlatively to exempt [it] at-the domicile of the
owner." And, certainly, existing conditions no less imperatively demand protection of choses in action against
.multiplied
whether following misapplication of
some legal taxation
fiction .*or conflicting theories concerning
the
sovereigR's right to exact contributions. For many years
the trend of decisiqns here has been in that direction.
'Taxation-is an intensely practical matter and laws in
respect of it should be construed and applied with a view
of avoiding, so far as possible, unjust and oppressive
consequences. We have determined that in general intangibles may be properly taxed at, the domicile of their
owner and we can firld no sufficient reason for saying that
they are not entitled tci enjoy an immunity against taxation at more than one place similar to that accorded to
tangibles. The difference betweei the two things, although obvious enough, seems insufficient to justify the
harsh and oppressive discrimination against intangibles
contended for on behalf of Minnesota.
Railroad Company. v. Pennsylvania-" State Tax on
Foreign Held Bonds Case "-15 Wall. 300, 320, .distinctly
held that- the State was without power to tax the owner of
bonds of a domestic railroad corporation made and payable outside her timits when issued to and held by citizens
and residents of another State. Through Mr. Justice
Field the Court there said-

FARMERS LOAN CO. v. MINNESOTA,
204

213

Opinion of the Court.

" But debts owing by corporations, like debts owing by

individuals, are not property of the debtors in any sense;
they are obligations of the debtors, and only possess value
in the hands of the creditors. With them they are property, and in their hands they may be taxed. To call debts
property of the debtors is simply to misuse terms. All the
property there carj be in the nature of things in debts of
corporations, belongs to the creditors, to whom they are
payable, and follows their domicile, wherever that may
be. Their debts can have no locality separate from the
parties to whom they are due. This principle might be
stated in many different ways, and supported by citations
from numerous adjudications, but no number of authorities, and no forms of expression could add anything to its
obvious truth, which is recognized upon. its simple
statement:"
If the situs of the bonds for taxation had been at the
debtor's domicile-Pennsylvania--the challenged effort
to tax could not have interfered unduly with the debtor's
contract to pay interest.
New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133, Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Ca.
v. OrleansAssessors, 221 U. S. 346, recognize the principle
that choses in action may acquire a situs for taxation
cther than at the domicile of their owner if they have
become integral parts of some local business. The present
record gives no occasion for us to inquire whether such securities can be taxed a second time at the owner's domicile.
The bonds and certificates of the decedent had acquired
permanent situs for taxation in New York; their testamentary transfer was properly taxable there but not. in
Minnesota..
The .judgment appealed from must be revprsed. The
cause will be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
STONE, J., concurring.

280 U. S.

MR. JuSTCim STONE, concurring.
I concur in the result. Whether or not control over
4 debt at the domicile of the debtor gives jurisdiction
to tax the debt, Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Board of
Assessors, 221 U. S. 346, 354, we are not here concerned
with a property-tax, but with an excise or privilege tax
imposed on the transfer of an intangible, see Stebbins v.
Riley, 268 U. S. 137; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S.
260, and to sustain a privilege tax the privilege must be
enjoyed in the state imposing it. Provident Savings
Society v. Ker.tucky, 239 U. S. 103. It is enough, I
think, to Uphold the present decision that the' transfer
was effected in New York by one domiciled there and is
controlled by its law.
Even though the contract transferred was called into
existence by the laws of Minnesota, its obligation cannot
be constitutionally impaired or withdrawn from the protection which those laws gave it at its inception. See
Provident Savings Society v. Kentucky, 239 U. S. 103,
113, 144; Bedford v. Eastern Building & Loan Association, 181 U. S. 227. And while the creditor may rely
on Minnesota law to enforce the debt, that may be
equally true of the 'law of any other state where the
debtor or his property may be. found. So far as the
transfer, as distinguished from the contract itself, is 'concerned, it is New York law and not that of Minnesota
which, by generally accepted rules, is applied there and
receives recognition elsewhere. See Bullen v. Wisconsin,
240 U. S.625, 631; Russell v. Grigsby, 168 Fed. 577; Lee
v. Abdy, 17 Q. B. Div. 309; Miller v. Campbell, 140
N. Y. 457, 460; Spencer v. Myers, 150 N. Y: 269. Once
the bonds had passed beyond the state and were acquired
by an owner domiciled elsewhere, the law of Minnesota
neither protected, nor could it withhold the power of
transfer or prescribe its terms.

FARMERS LOAN CO. v. MINNESOTA.
204

STONE,

J., concurring.

In the light of .these considerations, granting that the
continued existence of the contract rested in part on the
law of Minnesota, the relation of that law to the transfer
in New York, both in point of theory and in every practical aspect, appears to me to be too attenuated to -constitute any reasonable basis for deeming 'the transfer to
be within the taxing jurisdiction of Minnesota.
As the present is not a tax on the debt, but only on
the transfer of it, neither the analogies drawn from the
law of property taxes nor the attempt to solve the present
problem by ascribing to a legal- relationship unconnected
with any physical thing, a fictitious situs, can, I think,
carry us very far toward a solution. Nor does it seem
that the invocation of the Fourteenth Amendment to
relieve from the burdens of double taxation, as such,
promises more.
Hitherto the fact that taxation is "double" has not
been deemed to affect its constitutionality and there are,
I think, too many situations in which a single economic
interest may have such legal relationships with different
taxing jurisdictions as to justify its taxation in both, to
admit of our laying down any constitutional principle
broadly prohibiting taxation merely because it is double,
at least until that characterization is more precisely
defined.
It seems to me to be unnecessary and undesirabIe. to
'lay down any doctrine whose extent and content are so
dubious. Whether it is far reaching enough to overturn
those cases .which, in circumstances differing somewhat
from the present, have been regarded as permitting taxation in more than one state, reaching the same economic
interest, is so uncertain as to suggest doubts of its
trustworthiness and utility as a principle of judicial decision. See Wheeler v. Sohmer, 233 U. S.434, and Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S.1; Scottish Union & National

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1029.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

280 U. S.

Ins. Co. v. Bowland, 196 U. S. .611, 620; Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240 U. S. 184, 191; New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. New
Orleans, 205 U. S. 395; Bristol v. Washington County,
177 U. S. 133;*Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491, and
Savings & Loan Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S.
421; Union Refrig. Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.
194, 205; Tappan v. Merchants National Bank, 19 Wall.
490, 499; Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466, and Hawley
V. Malden, 232 U. S. 1, 12; Blackstone y. Miller, 188
U. S. 189 (so far as it-relates to the transfer tax on a bank
account in the state of the bank), and Fidelity.& Columbia Trust .Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54, 58; Bullen v.
Wisconsin,.240 U. S. 625, 631.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, dissenting.

This is a proceeding for the determination of a tax alleged to be due to the State of Minnesota but objected
to by the appellant as contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The tax
is imposed in respect of the transfer by will of bonds and
certificates of indebtedness of the State of Minnesota and
bonds of two cities of that State. The testator died domiciled in New York and the bonds Were there at the time
of his death. The Supreme Court of the State upheld
the tax, In re Estate. of Taylor, 176 Minn. 634, and the
executor appeals.'
It is not disputed that the transfer was taxable in New
York, but there is no constitutional objection to the same
transaction being taxed by'two States, if the laws of both
have to be invoked in order to give it effect. It may be
assumed that the transfer considered by itself alone depends 6i the law of New York, but if the law of Minnesota is necessary to the existence of anything beyond a
piece of paper to be transferred .then. Minnesota may dei,
mand payment for a privilege that-could not exist without
its help. It seems to me that the law of Minnesota is a

FARMERS LOAN CO. v. MINNESOTA.
204

HOLMES,

217

J., dissenting.

present force necessary to the existence of the obligation,
and that therefore, however contrary it may be to enlightened policy, the tax is good.
No one would doubt that the law of Minnesota was
necessary to call the obligation into existence. Other
States do not attempt to determine the legal consequences
of acts done outside of their jurisdiction, and therefore
whether certain acts done in Minnesota constitute a contract or not depends on the law of Minnesota alone. I
think the same thing is true of the continuance of the
obligation to the present time. It seems to me that it is
the law of Minnesota alone that keeps the debt alive.
Obviously at the beginning that law could have provided
that the debt should be extinguished by the death of the
creditor or by such other event as that law might point
out. It gave the debt its duration. The continued operation of that law keeps the debt alive. Not to go too
far into the field of speculation but confining the discussion to cities of the State and the State itself, the continued existence of the cities and the readiness of the
State to keep its promises depend upon the will of the
State. If there were no Constitution the State might
abolish the debt by its fiat. The only effect of the Constitution is that the law that originally gave the bonds
continuance remains in force unchanged. But it is still
the law of that State and no other. When such obliga'tions are enforced by suit in another State it is on the
footing of recognition, not of creation. Deutsche Bank
Filiale Nurnberg v. Humphrey, 272 U. S. 517, 519. Another State, if it iscivilized, does not undertake to say
to the debtor now that we have caught you we ;ill force
an obligation upon, you whether you still are bound by
the law of your .wnState or not. I believe this to be the
vital point. Unless I amwrong the debt, wherever enforced, is enforced only. because it is recognizedas such
by the law that created it and keeps it still a debt. No
doubt sometimes obligations are enforced elsewhere when-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S

the statute of limitations has run at home. But such decisions when defencible stand on the ground that. the
limitation is only procedural and does 'not extinguish the
duty. If the statute extinguishes the debt by lapse of
time no foreign jurisdiction that intelligently understood
its function would attempt to make the debtor pay.
I will not 'repeat what I said the other day in Safe
Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, ante, p. 83, concerning
the attempt to draw conclusions from the supposed situs
of a debt. The right to tax exists in this case because the
party needs the help of Minnesota to acquire a right, and
-that State can demand a quid pro quo in return. Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63, 68.. Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 206.
I do not dwell on the practical necessity of resorting
to the State in order to secure payment of state or municipal bonds. Even if the creditor had a complete and adequate remedy elsewhere, I still should think that a correct decision of the case must rest on whether I am right
or not about the theoretical dependence of the continued
existence of the bonds upon Minnesota law.
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, supports my conclusions and I.do not think that it should be overruled.
A 0od deal has to be read into the Fourteenth Amendment to give it any bearing upon this case. The Amendment does not condemn everything that we may think
undesirable on economic or social grounds.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS agrees with' this opinion.
THE CORN EXCHANGE BANK v. COLER, COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC WELFARE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 36.

Argued November 27, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

In view of its ancient origin, the New York procedure (Code, Cr.
Pro., §§ 921-925) whereby the property of an absconding husband

