CARPENTER v. SHAW.
351

Syllabus.

eral court. Similar action was taken by this Court in
Harkin v. Brundage, 276 U. S. 36, 42, in a proceeding by
receivers appointed by the Superior Court of Cook
County, Illinois, brought in the Federal District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois. And, conversely, it
was held in Shull v. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 81 W. Va.
184, 188, that a receiver appointed by a Federal District
Court in West Virginia, might maintain an action in a
Circuit Court of the same State, under authority from
the Federal court, not being under such circumstances "a
foreign receiver" nor proceeding outside of the jurisdiction of his appointment.
4. As the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
Receiver was without authority to bring the action
against Leach & Co. was erroneous, its judgment must be
reversed. And since it did not determine the merits of
the Receiver's claim, the case will be remanded to that
court with instructions to proceed to that end in conformity with this opinion. See Buzynski v. Luckenbach
S. S. Co., 277 U. S.226, 228, and cases cited.
Reversed and remanded.
CARPENTER ET AL. V. SHAW, STATE AUDITOR
OF OKLAHOMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 50.

Argued December 5, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.

1. Tax exemptions secured to the Indians by agreement between
them and the national government are to be liberally construed in
favor of the Indians. 1. 366.
2. The provision in the "Atoka Agreement" with the Choctaw and
Chickasaw Tribes, ratified August 24, 1898, that "all lands allotted
shall be non-taxable while the title remains in the original allottees but not to exceed twenty-one years from the date of patent," is to be construed in the sense in which it would be naturally

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

280 U. S

understood by the Indians, and its meaning at the time of its
adoption may not be narrowed by any subsequently declared
intention of Congress. P. 36-7.
3. Section 9814, Conp. Stat. Okla., 1921, imposes a tax upon the
owner of any royalty intcrest in petroleum and natural gas to the
extent of 3% of the gross value of the royalty; it makes this tax
a lien on such royalty interest and declares that it shall be in lieu
of all other taxes " upon any prol)erty rights attached to or inherent
in the right " to the specified minerals and " upon the mining rights
and privileges for the minerals aforesaid belonging to or appertaining to the land." The tax was applied to Indians who had received
allotments under the Atoka Agreement and had leased them for
the production of oil and gas reserving a royalty of one-eighth of
the value of the gross production. Held that the tax is not a. tax
on oil and gas severed from the realty, but is a tax upon the right
reserved in the Indians as lessors and owners of the fee, and is
forbidden by the tax exemption of the Agreement. P. 367.
4. Where a federal right is concerned, this Court is not bound by
the characterization given to a state tax by state courts or legislatures, or relieved by it of the duty of considering the real
nature of the tax and its effect upon the federal right asserted.
Id.
5. A denial by a state court of a recovery of taxes exacted by a
state officer in violation of the laws or Constitution of the United
States by compulsion is itself in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment and can not be justified by a state statuite limiting
suits to recover illegally assessed taxes to taxes paid "at the
time and in the manner provided by law." P. 369.
134 Okla. 35, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

279 U. S. 830, to review a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Oklahoma, which affirmed a judgment
dismissing a suit brought by Indians against the State
Auditor to recover money exacted of them as taxes and
paid under protest.
Mr. Stephen A. George, with whom Mr. J. B. Moore
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. J. Berry King, Attorney General of Oklahoma,
and V. P. Crowe, Assistant Attorney General, submitted
for respondent.

CARPENTER v. SHAW.
363

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

'This case comes here on writ of certiorari, 279 U. S.
830, to the Supreme Court of Oklahoma to review its
judgment upholding a tax imposed under § 9814, Compiled Oklahoma Statutes of 1921, upon "the owner of
any royalty " in petroleum and natural gas, to the extent
of 3% of the gross value of the royalty.
The petitioners are enrolled Choctaw Indians of less
than half blood who, by virtue of their membership ir the
tribe, have received allotments of lands within the State
of Oklahoma, under the Atoka Agreement with the Choctaw and Chickasaw Tribes, embodied in § 29 of the Act
of June 28, 1898, ratified August 24, 1898, 30 Stat. 495.
By this section it is provided that " all the lands allotted
shall be non-taxable while the title remains in the original
allottees but not to exceed twenty-one years from the
date of patent . . .," which period had not expired
with respect to the lands of petitioners at any of the
times material to the present case. All restrictions on
alienation affecting the allotments of these petitioners
were removed by Act of Congress of May 27, 1908, 35
Stat. 312.
The petitioners who have leased their allotments for
the production of oil and gas, reserving a royalty of oneeighth of the value of the gross production, have paid the
tax assessed for 1926 and 1927 under protest, and brought
the present suit to recover it as exacted contrary to the
exemption. The state court denied recovery on the
ground that the tax is imposed only on the oil and gas
when severed from the land and so is a tax upon personalty not embraced within the exemption. 134 Okla.
35.
In Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, the history of the
Atoka Agreement was reviewed by this Court. It was
there held that the provision for the exemption conferred,
upon the allottees, property right' which were within

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

the protection of the Fifth Amendment and hence it was
not subject to repeal by later Congressional legislation;
that the restriction, being one imposed in the exercise
of the plenary power of Congress over the Indian tribes
and tribal lands and in the performance of its duty as
the guardian of its Indian wards, see Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553, 565, And having been accepted by the
State of Oklahoma in its constitution upon admission to
statehood, was a limitation upon the taxing power of
the state. See also Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17.
Until the removal by the Act of May 27, 1908, of existing restrictions on alienation of the allotted lands, state
taxation even more remotely affecting the interests of
allottees than the present tax, would concededly have
been forbidden as a tax upon an instrumentality of the
national government. See Choctaw & Gulf R. Co. v.
Harrison,235 U. S. 292; Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271
U. S. 609; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Howard
v. Gipsy Oil Co., 247 U. S. 503; Large Oil Co. v. Howard,
248 U. S. 549. But it is urged that as the restrictions
have now been removed, Congress, by its attempted repeal of the exemption and by later legislation of May 10,
1928, 45 Stat. 496, subjecting oil and gas, produced from
restricted allotted lands of members of the five civilized
tribes, to state and federal taxes, has evidenced an intention to subject the Indians to all taxes imposed upon
citizens of Oklahoma. From this it is concluded that the
exemption in § 29 must be narrowly construed to effect
the Congressional purpose. See Shaw v. Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corp., 276 U. S. 575.
While in general tax exemptions are not to be presumed and statutes conferring them are to be strictly
construed, Heiner v. Colonial Trust Co., 275 U. S. 232,
the contrary is the rule to be applied to tax exemptions
secured to the Indians by agreement between them and
the national government. Choate v. Trapp, supra, 675.

CARPENTER v. SHAW.
363

Opinion of the Court.

Such provisions are to be liberally construed.

Doubtful

expressions are to be resolved in favor of the weak and
defenseless people who are the wards of the nation, dependent upon its protection and good faith. Hence, in
the words of Chief Justice Marshall, "The language used
in treaties with the Indians should never be construed to
their prejudice. If words be made use of, which are susceptible of a more extended meaning than their plain
import, as connected with the tenor of the treaty, they
should be considered as used only in the latter sense."
Worcester v. The State of Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 582. See
The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737, 760. And they must be
construed not according to their technical meaning but
"in the sense in which they would naturally be understood by the Indians." Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S.1, 11.
Whatever was the meaning of the present exemption
clause at the time of its adoption must be taken to be its
effect now, since it may not be narrowed by any subsequently declared intention of Congress. Choate v.
Trapp, supra. Having in mind the obvious purpose of
the Atoka Agreement to protect the Indidns from the
burden of taxation with respect to their allotments and
this applicable principle of construction, we think the
provision that "the lands allotted shall be non-taxable
while the title remains in the allottees" cannot be taken
to be restricted only to those taxes commonly known as
land or real estate taxes, but must be deemed at least to
embrace a tax assessed against the allottees with respect
to a legal interest in their allotment less than the whole,
acquired or retained by them by virtue of their ownership.
Where a federal right is concerned we are not bound
by the characterization given to a state tax by state
courts or legislatures, or relieved by it from the duty of
considering the real nature of the tax and its effect upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S

the federal right asserted. Choctaw Gulf R. Co. v. Harrison, supra; Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, 210
U. S. 217, 227. We think it plain that the tax imposed
on the royalty interest of the present petitioners is not a
tax on oil and gas severed from the realty, but is, by its
very terms, a tax upon the right reserved in them as
lessors and owners of the fee. The tax is imposed on
the "royalty interest . . . except such interests of the
State of Oklahoma or such royalty interests as are exempted from taxation under the laws of the United
States" and is made "a lien on such interest." It is in
lieu of all other taxes " upon any property rights attached
to or inherent in the right" to the specified minerals
and "upon the mining rights and privileges for the minerals aforesaid belonging to or appertaining to the
land."
It sufficiently appears, were that controlling, that numerous decisions of the Oklahoma courts since the Atoka
agreement have treated the royalty interest of the lessor
as a right attached and incident to his ownership or reversionary interest in the land. Barnes v. Keys, 36
Okla. 6; Strawn v. Brady, 84 Okla. 66; Harris v. Brady,
136 Okla. 274; compare Rich v. Doneghey, 71 Okla. 204,
and see Parker v. Riley, 250 U. S.66. But even if this
did not appear to be the case, an interest commonly so
regarded and practically so associated with the use and
enjoyment of the allotted lands could not, under the rule
of liberal construction rightly invoked by the petitioners,
be deemed excluded from the benefits of the exemption
granted by § 29. See Lake Superior Mines v. Lord, 271
U. S.577, 582; Waggoner Estate v. Wichita County, 273
U. S. 113; Butt v. Ellett, 19 Wall. 544; State v. Snyder,
29 Wyo. 163; Hearne v. Lewis, 78 Texas 276; Condit v.
Neighbor, 13 N. J. L. 83; York v. Jones, 2 N. H. 454;
Burden v. Thayer, 3 Metc. (Mass.) 76, 78; Nelson v.
Joshel, 305 Ill. 420, 428; Frerich v. Abrams, 97 Wash.

FORD & SON v. LITTLE FALLS CO.
363

Syllabus.

460, 462; Macdonough v. Starbird, 105 Calif. 15, 19.
Compare Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Tr. Co., 157 U. S.
429.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma also rested its denial
to petitioners of the right to recover the 1926 tax upon
the ground that, having failed to pay the tax for the year
when due, they were barred by the provisions of §§ 9971
and 9973 of the Compiled Oklahoma Statutes for 1921.
Under these sections, relief by injunction against the collection of any tax is forbidden and a suit to recover a tax
alleged to be illegally assessed is allowed only if paid" at
the time and in the manner provided by law." But the
petitioners' allegations, admitted on demurrer, are that
the tax was paid-under duress and compulsion to prevent
the issue of respondent's warrant for its collection, to prevent the stopping by respondent of further royalty payments to them, and to prevent the accumulation of statutory penalties. These allegations are sufficient to bring
the case within the ruling of this Court in Ward v. Love
County, supra, that a denial by a state court of a recovery
of taxes exacted in violation of the laws or Constitution
of the United States by compulsion is itself in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment below. will be reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
HENRY FORD & SON, INCORPORATED, v. LITTLE

FALLS FIBRE COMPANY

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 1NEW YORK.

No. 47. Argued December 4, 1929.-Decided January 6, 1930.
A private business corporation, licensed by the Federal Power Commission to use, for development of electric power, the surplus water
from a dam in the Hudson River, constructed under acts of Con81325 "-30-24

