OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

And, to say the least, the bill in equity is the most likely
way of reaching that result.
The establishment in Washington of a bureau "
charged
with the execution of this Act, . . . under the general supervision of a Federal Farm Loan Board," c. 245,
§ 3; Code, § 651, and the putting of the administration
of the Act under the direction and control of that Board
by § 1, seem to us inadequate to supply the omission of
this power from the express statement of what the Board
and receiver may do when the bank is insolveht. The
receiver had power to collect the assets of the bank, but
the liability of stockholders is no par of those assets. It
is a liability to creditors which the creditors may be left
to enforce.
Decree reversed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.

UNITED STATES

EX REL.

LOS ANGELES.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 54.

Argued October 28, 29, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. Power to compel interstate railway carriers to abandon their existing passenger stations and terminals in a large city and erect in
lieu a new union station at a new site, is not conferred upon the
Interstate Commerce Commission by paragraphs 18-21 of § 1
of the imended Interstate Commerce Act, giving the Commission
authority over abandonments and extensions of lines, or by paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 3, requiring carriers to afford all reasonable,
proper, and equal facilities for interchange of traffic and authorizing the Commission in certain circumstances to require that terminal facilities of one carrier may be used by another. Railroad
Commission v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331, distinguished.
P. 67.

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Argument for the Commission.

2. Whether power exists to control the Interstate Commerce Commission by mandamus need not be decided in the absence of a
meritorious case. P. 71.
34 F. (2d) 228, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 279 U. S. 830, to review a judgment of !he
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which reversed a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District
dismissing a petition for a writ of mandamus.

Mr. Daniel T. Knowlton for the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Since exercise of a power to compel establishment of
new union.stations in lieu of existing individual stations
would vitally affect local interests and would encroach
upon authority heretofore exercised by the States, the
lower court's decision is in square conflict with the settled
rule that federal legislation trenching on state authority
must be strictly construed. That decision rests, not on
express language conferring such power, but upon various
inapt provisions added by the Transportation Act of 1920,
or upon provisions of uncertain scope in the early Act,
originally put there, and re-enacted in 1920, without
thought of conferring any such authority.
The decision of this Court in the Los Angeles Station
case, (264 U. S. 331,) that the Commission has "means
of control over installation of such new station " in that
its permission for incidental extensions and abandonments
of lines and for issuance of new securities, if needed, must
first be obtained, manifests that the Commission's authority is indirect and restrictive and that it is not an
authority to order the building of new union stations.
The conferring by Congress of a permissive and restrictive authority in this field is in line with its past

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the Commission.

280 IT. S.

policy, which has customarily been to give to the Commission a limited power only in the first instance, and,
in enlarging it later, to employ express and unmistakable
language, including specific provisions for notifying and
according hearing to the States, or for securing their cooperation; it is also in harmony with the general Congressional plan of the 1920 amendments (particularly as
evidenced by the consolidation provisions of the Act),
to give to the Commission permissive and restrictive authority, rather than a compulsory authority, over subjectmatter intimately affecting local interests, or constituting
extensive invasions into a field theretofore left to private
initiative and managerial discretion, whenever power of
that character was fitted to accomplish the end in view.
If it should be considered that the State has been altogether excluded and is without power to order installation
of the new union station, even after obtaining this Coinmission's certificates in respect of relocation of main line
track, still this Commission's mere indirect and restrictive
authority to prevent a change in existing status would not
be thereby changed into a mandatory power to force new
union stations in lieu of existing stations upon the carriers and the cities.
Citing: Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; United States v.
PennsylvaniaR. Co., 242 U. S. 208; Kentucky & I. B. Co.
v. L. & N. R. Co., 37 Fed. 567; Alabama R. Co. v. Jackson
R. Co., 271 U. S. 244; Cong. Rec., Vol. 58, Pt. 9; North
CarolinaComm'n v. Southern Ry., 185 N. C. 435.
Railroad Comm'n v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S.
331, merely holds that the Commission's power to control
action of the States in respect of union stations is of indirect' character, resting chiefly upon its authority to
prevent financial commitments that mght impair the carriers' ability to perform their duties to the public. Lehigh
Valley R. Co. v. Board of Covmnt'rs, 278 U. S. 24.

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Argument for the Commission.

That Congress' entry into a new field has customarily
been one of cautious approach, giving to the Commission
only a limited power in the first instance, is borne out by
many instances. Houston & T. R. Co. v. United States,
234 U. S. 342; Wisconsin Comm'n v. C. B. & Q. R. Co., 257
U. S. 563; Railroad Comm'n v. Southern Pacific R. Co.,
264 U. S. 331; Snyder v. N. Y. C. & St. L. R. Co., 118
Oh. St. 72.
Repeated decisions of this Court have commented upon
the fact that the amendments made to the Act by the
Transportation Act of 1920, effected marked departures
from the earlier purposes of federal regulation. But this
Court has recognized that the power conferred on the
Commission by many of those amendments is only a power
to permit or authorize, and not a mandatory power. Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456;
Railroad Comm'n v. Southern Pacific R. Co., supra; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258; Venner v. Michigan
C. R. Co., 271 U. S. 127; New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S. 184; Snyder v. N. Y. C. & St. L. R. Co., 118 Oh.
St. 72; Texas v. East Texas R. Co., 258 U. S. 204; Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153.
The doctrine of the Winfield case raises the question as
to whether Congress may not have intended to supersede
all state authority, despite the fact that it gave to the
Commission only limited powers in the field. New York
Central R..Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 536; Snyder v. N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co.,
118 Oh. St. 72.
Of course the holding in the Los Angeles Station Case,
supra (RailroadComrn'n v. Southern Pacific) to the effect
that the Commission's permissive order or certificate for
relocation of main track " is a condition precedent to the
validity of any action by the carriers or of any order by
the State Commission " looking to the establishment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the Relator.

2S0 U. S.

the union station, indicates that the State has only been
superseded to the extent, expressly required by the terms
of the Act, that is, that the State can still act after the
Commission has passed upon and approved the changes
in track and expenditure involved. And this is borne out
by the legislative history of the 1920 amendments.
In the consolidation provisions of the Act, as in the
case of new union stations, the subject matter contemplates co-operative action by separate individual coinpanies. Congress gave to the Commission power to
approve applications of the railroads for permission to
effect consolidations, but 'no compulsory authority.
Snyder v. N. Y., C. & St. L. R. Co., supra.
Messrs. Max Thelen and Jess E. Stephens, with whom
Messrs. Erwin P. Werner, City Attorney of Los Angeles,
Milton Bryan, Assistant City Attorney, and Edwin C.
Blanchard were on the briefs, for the City of Los Angeles.
Prior to the enactment of the Transportation Act of
1920, the Railroad Commission of California had full
power to order such a union passenger station. Constitution of California, Art. XII, §§ 22, 23; Public Utilities Act of California, Stats. 1915, p. 115, as amended,
§§ 13 (b), 22 (a), 30, 31, and 36; Civic Center Ass'n v.
Railroad Comm'n, 175 Cal. 441; Atchison, T. & S. F. R.
Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 190 Cal. 214. See Railroad
Comm'n v. Northern Alabama R.' Co., 182 Ala. 357;
Railroad Coinm'n v. Alabama G. S.R. Co., 183. Ala. 354;
Mayor v. Norwich & IF. R. Co., 109 Mass. 103; Dewey
v. Atlantic C. L. R. Co., 142 N. C. 392; Missouri 0. & G.
R. Co. v; State, 29 Okla. 640; State v. St. Louis S. TV. R.
Co., 165 S.W. 491; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. State, 167
S. W. 192; State v. St. Louis S. I7. R.-Co., 199 S.W. 829.
In Railroad Conmmission v. Southern Pacific, 264 U. S.
331, this Court decided the issue of the Commission's
jurisdiction on the precise facts here under consideration.

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Argument for the Relator.

Under that decision the Commission has full authority to
grant the relief requested by the City of Los Angeles.
The power' to direct the construction of a union passenger depot has always been held to carry with it as a
necessary incident thereto the power to specify the site
thereof. Railroad Comm'n v. Alabama G. S. R. Co., 185
Ala. 354; Statev. St. Louis S. W. R. Co., 165 S. W. 491;
Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. State, 167 S. W. 192.
Under paragraph 3 of § 3 of the Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended, the Interstate Commerce Commission
has jurisdiction to require the construction and operation
of the union station. Under that paragraph it is the
duty of carriers to afford all reasonable, proper and equal
"facilities
for the. receiving, forwarding and
delivering of passengers . . . to and from their
several lines and those connecting therewith. ."
The word "facilities" includes depots and. union depots. Hastings Club v. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co.,
69 I. C. C. 489; St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Miller, 31
Okla. 801; Missouri, 0. & G. R. Co. v. State, 29 Okla. 640.
The Interstate Commerce Commission itself assumed
this in the Los Angeles Passenger Terminal Cases, 100
I. C. C. 421; s. c. 142 I. C. C. 489. In the Los Angeles
Union Depot Case, 264 U. S. 331, the Court decided that
this same word, "facilities," as used in the very next
paragraph of the Act, includes a "union station or depot."
Under paragraph 3 of § 3, it is the duty of carriers, in a
proper case, to construct and operate a union passenger
station. The Commission has power to enforce compliance with this duty. Distinguishing United States v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 242 U. S. 208. See People ex rel.
N. Y. C. R. Co. v. Service Comm'n, 233 N. Y. 113, certiorari denied, 258 U. S. 621; Lake Erie, A. & W. R. Co. v.
Utilities Comm'n, 109 Oh. St. 103; Atchison, T. & S. F. R.
Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 190 Cal. 214, affirmed in 264
U. S. 331. Distinguishing North Carolina Comm'n v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Argument for the Relator.

280 U. S.

Southern R. Co., 185 N. C. 435. See Pittsburgh& W. Va.
R. Co. v. Lake Erie, A. & W. R. Co., 811. C. C. 333; Chamber of Commerce v. Wichita Falls, R. & Ft. IV. R. Co.,
109 I. C. C. 81; Alabama & V. R. Co. v. Jackson & E. R.
Co., 271 U. S. 244.
The Commission has jurisdiction to require construction of the station under paragraph 4 of § 3, which confers upon it the power, under the circumstances therein
specified, to require the use of terminal facilities of one
carrier by another carrier or carriers. See Los Angeles
Station Case, 264 U. S: 331, at pp. 343, 344. The carriers now already own most of the lands and tracks needed
for the station. Hence, under the decision of this Court
in that case, the Commission has authority under paragraph 4 to require the construction and operation of the
station.
The following decisions hold that the fact that compliance with an order for the construction of a union
passenger depot will require a railroad to acquire additional property by the exercise of the power of eminent
domain, does not militate against the validity of the order. Railroad Comm'n v. Northern Alabama R. Co.,
182 Ala. 357; Railroad Comm'n v. Alabama G. S.R. Co.,
185 Ala. 354; Mayor v. Norwich& TV. R. Co., 109 Mass.
103; Dewey v. Atlantic C.L. R. Co., 142 N. C. 392; State
v. St. Louis S. W. R. Co., 165 S. W. 491. See also Visconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
The argument of the Commission that the States may
have been divested of authority to order construction of
union passenger stations, but that such authority has
not been conferred on it, would result in the inability of
any public authority, state or federal, to make the order
prayed for by the City of Los Angeles. Such a conclusion should not be reached unless there is no escape from
it. Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. R. Co. v. United States,
275 U. S.404.

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Argument of Amici Curite.

As has already been noted, the judgment of the Supreme Court of California annulling the order of the
Railroad Commission was thereafter affirmed by this
Court. 264 U. S. 331. These decisions are in harmony
with the well-established rule that, when Congress acts
in such a, way as to manifest its purpose to exercise its
constitutional authority, the regulating power of the
State ceases to exist.
Messrs. Frank Karr, A. S. Halsted, C. W. Durbrow,
Robert Brennan, and E. V. Camp filed a brief on behalf
of the Southern Pacific Company, Southern Pacific Railroad Company, Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad Company, and The Atchison, Topeka & Sante Fe Railway
Company, as amici curiae, by, special leave of Court.
A public utility which has undertaken to render a
public service can be required by the Government, in the
exercise of its police power, to expend money when necessary to render that service adequate, safe and convenient
(subject, of course, to limitations not necessary to particularize here). The Government may not require such
a public utility to expend money in the rendition of a.
service other than, or different from, or in addition to, that
which it has undertaken to render. A steam railroad does
not undertake to go to its patrons. It undertakes to serve
those who come to it. The undertaking of a railroad in
this behalf is defined by the location of its tracks and is
limited by its franchise. To require a railroad, for the
purpose of joining in a union station or for any other purpose, to exteiwd its tracks to a point apart from its line,
necessitating the acquisition of additional property and
franchises, would amount to a taking of private property for the public use without compensation, a deprivation of property without due process of law, and a denial
of the equal protection of the laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.

60

Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Con gress has not attempted to delegate to the Commihssion the power to do what the city asked the
Commission to do.
To hold that the Transportation Act of 1920 has deprived States of any power that they may have had to
do what is here sought,, is not tantamount to holding that
the power has been given to the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
*The ruling made against its own jurisdiction by the
Interstate Commerce "Commission is entitled to great
weight.
iMIR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By petition filed July 12, 1928, respondent sought from
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a writ of
mandamus compelling petitioner, the Interstate Coinmerce Commission, to consider the evidence introduced in
the proceeding before it known as Los Angeles Passenger
Terminal Cases, 100 I. C. C. 421; 142 I. C. C. 489, for the
purpose of determining whether the Commission shall
order the Atchison, Topeka, & Santa Fe Railway Company,
the Souther) Pacific Company, and the Los Angeles & Salt
Lake Railroad Company to build and use an interstate
union passenger station in the City of Los Angeles, California; and after consideration of the evidence, to make
such order therein as the facts may require. The Supreme
Court of the District dismissed the petition. The Court
of Appeals revevsed its judgment and remanded the cause
for further proceedings. 34 F. (2d) 228. This Court
granted a writ of certiorari.
The Railroad Commission of that State had in 1921 (19
,Ops., R. R. Coin. of Cal., pp. 740, 937) ordered the car"

riers to file plan , etc., and to acquire sufficient land within
what is known as the Plaza. area in that city for a union

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Opinion of the Court.

passenger station and terminal, to submit plans therefor,
and, upon their approval by that Commission, to poceed
with the construction of the station. The carriers carried
these orders by writs of certiorari to the Supreme Court of
the State, and that court, in Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
R. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 190 Cal. 214, held
that by the Transportation Act of 1920 Congress had
taken exclusive authority over the matter of a union interstate terminal depot, and the court therefore denied the
State Railroad Commission the jurisdiction which it had
sought to.exercise. The State Railroad Commission petitioned this Court for writs of certiorari and at the same
time instituted proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Colmnission which resulted in the orders above
referred to.
This Court granted a writ of certiorari and on April 7,
1924, rendered its decision in Railroad Commi.ssion of
Californiav. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. 8. 331, wherein,
in affirming the judgment of the state court, we held that
the relocation of tracks, which was incidental to the proposed union passenger station, required a certificate of
approval by the Interstate Commerce Commission under
paragraphs 18 to 21 of § 1, Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by § 402, Transportation Act of 1920 (41 Stat.
476, 478,) as a condition precedent to the va!idity of any
action by the carriers or of any order by the State Railroad
Commission, and that until the I-terstate Commerce
Commission had acted under those paragraphs, the carriers could not be required to provide a new union station
or to extend their main tracks thereto as ordered by the
State Railroad Commission.
Pending the hearing of the causes in 264 U1. S.331. the
direct proceeding, referred to above, was institutcd before
the Interstate Commerce Commission by the City of Los
Angeles, asking for an order by the Commission requiring
the three railroads to build a new union station at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Plaza site. With it were consolidated an application by
the Southern Pacific Company for authority to abandon
certain main line tracks and the operation of passenger
and freight train service on Alameda Street, and an application by the Southern Pacific and the Salt Lake for authority to construct new, and to extend existing lines.
The Commission held, 100 I. C. C. 421, that it was
without authority to require the construction of the new
union station. It said in the report, at page 430:
"We conclude that we are not empowered to require
the construction of a union passenger station as sought in
No. 1477S. To make the record clear, we repeat that no
question of discrimination or preference is presented here
and that under the issues framed in the complaint-in No.
14778 we will give no consideration to matters shown of
record for the purpose of determining whether we should
issue an order requiring the construction and use of a
union station by any of the defendants."
The Commission, in order to facilitate dispatch in the
disposition of the case, although it held that it had no
power to require the building of an interstate commerce
passenger station, made hypothetical certificates, which
could be summarized as follows:
(1) That the public convenience and necessity require
the extensions of lines that may be necessary to reach and
serve any union passenger station within the plaza which
may be constructed in accordance with a lawful order of
the State Commission and that may be necessary to provide for the incidental rearrangement of passenger and
freight routes, and that the expense involved will not impair the carriers' ability to perform their duties to the
public. (2) That public convenience and necessity permit the abandonment of train service on Alameda Street
and such other abandonments of lines as would be necess)ary in connection with the establishment of any such
station, so lawfully ordered by the State Commission.

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

63

Opinion of the Court.

The report further found that such joint use of track or
other terminal facilities as may be incidental and necessary
to the proper operation of any such union station is in
the public interest and is practicable, without substantially impairing the owning carriers' ability to hancIle their
own business. As to the application by the Southern
Pacific and Salt Lake to extend their lines to permit the
joint use of the Southern Pacific's existing station, the
Commission's findings were unfavorable and its order denied the application. The Commission's then report was
not accompanied by certificates carrying out its findings,
and it reserved jurisdiction to alter its findings in the
event that the plan of the State Commission, as finally
evolved, should be materially different from that 'as here
considered to be in the public interest.'
After a further hearing in the direct proceeding instituted by Los Angeles for an order directing the erection
of a union station, the prayer of Los Angeles was denied.
142 I. C. C. 4S9. Thereafter the City filed the petition
above referred to, in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, for a writ of mandamus. This was in the
present proceeding.
Attached to the petition as exhibits were the pertinent
parts of the record in the previous cases. There were filed
an answer of the Commission, and a demurrer to the
answer. The Commission still adhered to its original report. The Supreme Court of the District entered a judgment overruling the demurrer and, the City electing to
stand upon the petition, dismissed the petition. On an
appeal, the judgment was reversed by.the Court of Appeals of the District, which held, in substance, that the
Commission was vested with supervisory ontrol over the
three carriers and that they were subject to an order requiring the construction of the urtion station and the
necessary connecting tracks prayed for.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

The sole question for decision is whether the Interstate
Commerce Commission has jurisdiction to order the construction of the union station. This issue arises on,provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, 24 Stat. 379, as
amended by the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 456,
476-479. These are paragraphs 18 to 22 added to § 1 of
the original Act, and paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 3.
These paragraphs and sections of the Transportation
Act of 1920 may be shortly stated as follows:
Paragraph 18 forbids the construction of a new line of
railroad, or the acquisition or operation of any, line of
railroad or extension thereof in interstate commerce, unless
there shall have been obtained from the Commission a.
certificate that the present and future convenience and
necessity require, or will require the construction or operation of such additional or extended line of railroad, and
forbids any interstate carrier to abandon all or any portion
of its line, unless there shall have been obtained from the
Interstate Commercez Commission a certificate of public
convenience and necessity.
Paragraph 19 requires notice and hearings in any proceeding "to secure such certificate.
Section 20 gives the Commission discretionary power to
issue such certificates and provides for an injunction at the
suit of the United States for any construction, operation
or abandonment of such line of railroad or extension
thereof without a certificate, and punishes a violation.
Section 21 provides that after a hearing in such proceeding upon complaint, or upon its own initiative without
complaint, the Commission may authorize or require by
order any carrier by railroad subject to the act to provide
itself with safe and adequate facilities for performing as
a common carrier its car service, as that term is used in
the Act, and to extend its line or lines if the Commission
finds that it is reasonably required in the interest of pub-

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Opinion of the Court,

-*ic convenience and necessity, and will not impair the
ability of the carrier to perform its duty to the public.
Section 3, embracing paragraphs 3 and 4, provides, in
paragraph 3, that carriers shall afford all reasonable,
proper and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic
between their respective lines and for the receiving, forwarding and delivering of passengers or property to and
from their several lines and those connecting therewith,
and forbids discrimination.
Paragraph 4 provides that if the Commission finds that
to do so will not substantially impair the ability of a carrier owning and entitled to the enjoyment of terminal
facilities to handle' its own business, it may require the
use of any such terminal facilities of any carrier, including main-line track or tracks for a reasonable distance
outside of such terminal, by another carrier or other carriers, on such terms and for such compensation as the carriers affected may agree upon, or, in the event of a failure
to agree, as the Commission may deem just and reasonable for the use so required, as if in condemnation
proceedings.
In its final report the Interstate Commerce Commission held that it had no power to require the construction
and operation of a union station upon the site specified.
The Commission's report was in part as follows:
"Complainants have again raised the question whether
we have power to require the defendants to construct and
operate a union passenger station upon the site heretofore specified in our findings. Their contention that we
have such power was pressed with vigor upon the original
submission before us. The complainants point to section
3, paragraphs (3) and (4) of the interstate commerce act
as furnishing the necessary statutory authority.. As
stated in th6 original report, at page 430, we concluded
that we are not empowered to require the construction
181325°-30..---5

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

of a union passenger station as sought in No. 14778, un-'
der the issues framed in the complaint therein.
In Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co. v. .Jackson& Eastern
Ry. Co., 271 U. S. 244. 250, the Supreme Court said:
"'In matters relating to the construction, equipment,
adaptation and use of interstate railroad lines, with the
exceptions specifically set forth in paragraph (22), Congress has vested in the Commission the authority to find
the facts and thereon to exercise the necessary judgment.
The Commission's power under paragraph (3) of Sec. 3,
to require the establishment of connections between the
main lines of carriers was asserted by it in Pittsburgh &
IV. V. R. Co: v. Lake Erie, A. & 11. R. Co., 81 I. C. C.
333, a case decided after the withdrawal by the Jackson
& Eastern of its application to the Commission for leave
to make the junction at Curran's Crossing, and in Chamber of Commerce v. Wichita Falls, R. & Ft. TV. R. Co.,
109 I. C. C. 81. That its jurisdiction is exclusive was
held in People ex rel. New York C. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 233 N. Y. 113, 119-121. Compare Lake
Erie, A. & W. R. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 109
Ohio St. 103.'"
The Commission proceeded:
"The distinction between a 'simple switch connection
such as was contemplated by the cases previously referred
to, and the elabprate facilities sought to be- required by
us in the present case, is obvious. Re-examination of
the -ihole subject again leads us to the conclusion that
under existing law we are not empowered to require the
construction of a union passenger station of the character sought by th& complaint. .
"All issues of fact having been considered and concluded by 'our original report and this report on further
hearing, nothing remains for us but to deny the application of the city of Los Angeles and the intervener, the

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Commission of the State of California, for a
final order herein requiring the construction of a station
as found in the public interest.

.

.

In weighing the effect of the Transportation Act, it
should be noted that in this important measure affecting
associations between interstate carriers of a compulsory
character, there is nowhere express authority for the establishment of union passenger stations, compulsory or
otherwise. Emphasis is put on physical connection between the tracks of one carrier and others if permitted by
the Interstate Commerce Commission and if properly paid
for, either by agreement or condemnation, by the carrier
enjoying the use of the track of the other companies.
But it is limited in extent to connections with the terminals of other companies within a reasonable length.
This Court said that the possible peril to interstate commerce in a physical connection between two main tracks
" shows that the jurisdiction of the Commission over such
connections must be exclusive, if the duty imposed upon
it to develop and control an adequate system of interstate rail transportation is to be effectively performed.
Moreover, the establishment of junctions between the
main lines of independent carriers is commonly connected
with the establishment of through routes and the interchange of car services, and is often but a step toward the
joint Use of tracks." Alabama,& V. R. Co. v. Jackson &
E. R. Co., 271 U. S. 244, 250.
The description in the Alabama Railway case, 271 U. S.
244, is that of a physical connection between railroads engaged in interstate commerce, but it contains no suggestion that the junction is to include union passenger
stations.
There are cases in the state courts in which by virtue
of statutory provision railroads are required expressly to
unite in a passenger station, if determined by Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

sioners appointed by the Court or by a Railroad Commission. Mayor and Aldermen of Worcester v. Norwich
& IVorcestcr R. Co., 109 Mass. 103, 113; Railroad Commission v. Alabama Northern R. Co., 182 Ala. 357; Railroad Commission v. Alabama Great Southern R. Co., 185
Ala. 354, 362; Missouri, 0. & G. R. Co. v. State, 29 Okla.
640; Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. State, 90 Okla. 173;
State v. St. Louis Southwestern R. Co. (Tex. Civ. App.),
165 S. W. 491, 199 S. W. 829, 930; but there is no Federal case in which is built up out of such words as those
which we find in the Transportation Act of 1920 authority for requiring such a station.
Without more specific and express legislative direction
than is found in the Act, we can not reasonably ascribe
to Congress a purpose to compel the interstate carriers
here to build a union passenger station in a city of the
size and extent and the great business requirements of Los
Angeles. The Commission was created by Congress. If
it was to be clothed with the power to require railroads
to abandon their existing stations and terminal tracks in
a city and to combine for the purpose of establishing in
lieu thereof a new union station, at a new site, that power
we should expect to find in congressional legislation. Such
authority, if conferred in Los Angeles, would have application to all interstate railroad junctions, including the
numerous large cities of the country, with their residential, commercial, shopping, and municipal centers now
fixed and established with relation to existing terminals.
It would become a statute of the widest effect and would
enter into the welfare of every part of the country. Various interests would be vitally affected by the substitution
of a union station for the present terminals. A selection
of its site from the standpoint of a city might greatly affect property values and likewise local transportation
systems. The exercise of such power would compel the

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Opinion of the Court.

carriers to abandon existing terminals, to acquire new
land and rights of way and enter upon new construction,
to abandon large tracts and to sell territory of the same
extent as no longer necessary for the use of the carriers.
There would have to be tribunals to apportion the expenditures and cost as between the carriers. A proper
statute would seem to require detailed directions, and
we should expect the intention to be manifested in plain
terms and not to have been left to be implied from varied
regulatory provisions of uncertain scope. It would be a
monumental work and one requiring the most extensive
exercise of expert engineering and railroad construction.
It would make possible great changes of much importance in the plans of every city and in the rearrangement and mutations of railroad property and public and
private business structures everywhere. We find no
statutory preparation for the organization of such machinery.
We can not agree with the Court of Appeals of the District in its disposition to view § 3, paragraph 3, as vesting
the Interstate Commerce Commission "with almost unlimited power in the matter of establishing terminals and
union stations for the proper interchange of traffic between the converging interstate railroad lines." The words
"reasonable, proper and equal facilities" are of course
comprehensive enough to include not only trackage but
terminal facilities described as extending a reasonable
distance outside of the terminal, but hardly to give the
Commission"' unlimited power" in the building of union
stations.
To attribute to Congress an intention to authorize the
compulsory establishment of union passenger stations the
country over, without special mention of them as such,
would be most extraordinary. The general ousting from
their usual terminal facilities of the great interstate car-

70

OTrOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

riers would work a change of title and of ownership in
property of a kind that would be most disturbing t6 the
business interests of every state in the country.
To recognize what is here sought as within the power
of the Commission to order to be done in each of all the
great cities throughout the United States, and to sustain
it as legal, without provision-for effective restraint by the
carriers, or other interests, would expose the community
to possible abuse, with nothing but self-imposed restraint
on bureaucratic extravagance.
When .the interest of a great city in its improvements is
to be promoted entirely at the expense of railroads that
enter it, Congress would be expected to hesitate before it
would change discretionary leave for the erection of such
stations intc6 positive command. In such a case the expenditure of a. large amount of capital will not bring with
it corresponding increase in the railroad revenues. If
Congres4 had intended to give an executive tribunal unfettered capacity for requisitioning investment of capital
of the carriers and the purchase of large quantities of land
and material in an adverse proceeding, we. may well be
confident that Congress would have made its meaning far
clearer and more direct than in the present meager provisions of the Transportation Act. The suggestion of complainants is that out of provisions for local union of main
tracks and switching tracks we should use our imaginations
and develop them into provisions for giant union passenger stations. It is true that the -railway systems may be
united through switches and connecting tracks in physical
connection, but this has not been held to justify great
monumental structures, extended in their complicated
machinery and superficial extent and expense. There is a
difference of real substance between such connecting
tracks and switches and junctions, and a metropolitan
union passenger station. The latter calls into being a new

I. C. C. v. LOS ANGELES.
52

Opinion of the Court.

-entity naturally requiring new legislative authority. This
Court, referring to a kindred matter, said of this case:
"But there is a great difference between- such relocation
of tracks or local union stations and what is proposed here.
The differences are more than that of mere degree; they
and their consequences are so marked as to constitute a
change in kind." 264 U. S. 331, 346.
But it is said that we have already foreclosed the conclusion in this case by our opinion in 264 U. S. 331. The
only issue there presented to this Court, was whether it
was necessary to secure from the Interstate Commerce
Commission its approval of the construction of a union
station and the relocation of the connecting tracks proposed. The point in that case was the necessity for the,
acquiescence by the Interstate Commerce Commission in
respect to a union passenger station. We held such a certificate to be necessary before a union station or connecting lines of interstate'carriers could be lawful. That is all
we held.
It is quite true that we made references in the opinion
to a case foreshadowed in the hypothetical certificates of
the Commission in the building of a union station. Such
references, had; however, not the slightest significance in
respect to who could or should build the station, or whence
its cost should be defrayed. It was as far as possible from
the purpose of the Court in its opinion to indicate its
views of the powers which the Commission could exercise
adversely to the carriers in compulsory proceedings. They
were not before the Court for adjudication.
In what situations, if any, action of the Interstate Conmerce Commission may be controlled or corrected by mandamus need not now be considered, because it is apparent
that there is here no meritorious basis for exerting such
power, even if found to exist.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia is
Reversed

