POPOVICI v. AGLER.
369

Statement of the Case.

the respondents, so far as the laws of the state are concerned, is a vested right acquired under those laws and
so is one expressly saved by § 27 from destruction or
appropriation by licensees without compensation, and
that it is one which petitioner, by acceptance of the license
under the provisions of § 6, must be deemed to have
agreed to recognize and protect. Whether § 21, giving
to licensees the power of eminent domain, confers on
them power to condemn rights such as those of respondents, and whether it might have been invoked by the
petitioner in the present situation, are questions not
before us.
Affirmed.
OHIO EX REL. POPOVICI, VICE-CONSUL OF ROU-

MANIA, v. AGLER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 35.

Argued January 7, 8, 1930.-Decided January 20, 1930.

1. The provisions of Article III, § 2, of the Constitution extending
the judicial power to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, and investing this Court with original
jurisdiction of such cases, do not, of themselves and without more,

exclude jurisdiction in the courts of a State over a suit against
a vice-consul for divorce and alimony. P. 382.
2. The provisions of the Judicial Code, § 24, par. Eighteenth;
§ 256, par. Eighth, giving the District Court original jurisdiction,
exclusive of the courts of the several States, over all suits against
consuls and vice-consuls, should not be construed as granting to
the District Court or denying to the state courts, jurisdiction over
suits for divorce and alimony. P. 383.
119 Ohio'St. 484, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

279 U. S. 828, to review a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Ohio denying a writ of prohibition,
which was sought by the petitioner for the purpose of
restraining a proceeding for divorce and alimony in the
Court of Common Pleas.

OCTOBER TERM. 1929.
Argument for Petitioner.

280 U. S.

Messrs. Atlee Pomerene and Malcolm Y. Yost, with
whom Mr. Frank Harrisonwas on the brief, for .petitioner.
Congress has taken jurisdiction of "all" cases of this
kind from the state courts. Tho Act does not say that it
takes from the state courts jurisdiction of all cases except
those of divorce and alimony. If it had been so intended, Congress would have said so.
The Supremp Court of Ohio has ignored the plain rule
that a statute cannot be amended or extended by judicial
construction.
Congress having determined that the jurisdiction of the
courts of the.United States shall be exclusive of the courts
of the several States in all suits and proceedings against
vice-consuls, surely this Court will not hold such determination and statute absurd. The reasons which
prompted the framers of the Constitution to extend the
judicial power of the United States to all cases affecting
ambassauors and consuls, and which prompted the Congress to make the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States in such cases exclusive of the courts of the several
States, apply to divorce proceedings against diplomatic
and consular representatives just as much as to other
suits and proceedings against them. The United States
has exclusive responsibility for international relations.
A vice-consul is a representative of a sovereign of equal
dignity with the United States. The foreign sovereign
thus represented may have peculiar laws relative to domestic relations. No state court should have the power
to draw the United States into complications with a foreign sovereign; and such complications might result from
a divorce proceeding just as readily as from any other
kind of a suit or proceeding.
This Court long ago decided that consular representatives are exempt from all suits and proceedings in the,
state courts. Davis v. Packard,7 Pet. 276. The decision
in that case was under an earlier form of this same statute

POPOVICI v. AGLER.
379

Argument for Petitioner.

which only differs from the present one in that it excepts
a few specific criminal matters. It is said in the opinion
of this Court in that case: (p. 280) "As an abstract question it is difficult to understand on what ground a state
court can claim jurisdiction' of civil suits against foreign
consuls." (p. 2S5) " The Act of Congress is general, extending to all suits against consuls." The Court held
that the privilege and immunity is not personal to the
consul, but is a privilege of the Government which he
represents. The Court of Appeals of New York in the
Valario case held it is also a privilege of the Government
of the United States. It is a pri'ilege which he cannot
waive.
The question has been decided by the courts of New
York and Pennsylvania contrary to the opinion in this
cause. Higginson v. Higginson, 158 N. Y. Supp. 92;
Valario v. Thompson, 7 N. Y. 576; Mannhardt v. Soderstrom, 4 Binney 138. See also Sagory v. Wissman, Fed.
Cas. No. 12227; Griffin v. Domingues, 9 N. Y. 656; Sartori v. Hamilton, 13 N. J. L. 107; 1 Op. Atty. Gen. 406.
If the decision below is correct, a foreign consul can
not be sued for divorce and alimony in the state courts
of New York and Pennsylvania, but can be sued in the
state courts of Ohio,-an intolerable situation in view of
the specific legislation of Congress.
This Court has held in the cases cited in the opinion
of the court below that federal courts have no jurisdiction
of suits or proceedings for divorce and alimony between
persons of whom the state courts have jurisdiction; but
so far as we have been able to find, it has never held that
the federal courts have no jurisdiction of such suits or
proceedings against diplomatic and consular representatives of foreign sovereigns.
The court below attached some weight to the fact that
the marital contract was with an American woman and
consummated in Ohio.

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Since the decisions in Davis v. Packard, 7 Pet. 276, and
Plaquemines Tropical Fruit Co. V. Henderson, 170 U. S.
511, the-power of Congress to exclude the courts of the
several States from jurisdiction of such cases can not be
doubted. The power is unlimited and not qualified by
any condition that the federal courts afford a forum.
Mr. Harry Nusbaum, with whom Mr. Henry W.
Harter, Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The relator was sued for divorce and alimony ,in a
Court of the State of Ohio. He objected to the jurisdiction of the Court, but the objection was overruled and
an order for temporary alimony was made. He thereupon applied to the Supreme Court of the State for a
writ of prohibition, but upon demurrer to the petition
the writ was denied. 119 Ohio State, 484. A writ of
certiorari was granted by this Court.
The facts alleged are that the relator is Vice-Consul
of Roumania and a citizen of that country, stationed and
now residing at Cleveland, Ohio, and it is said by the
Supreme Court to have been conceded at the argument
that he was married to Helen Popovici, the plaintiff in the
original suit, in Stark County, Ohio, where she resided.
The relator invokes Article III, Section 2, of the Constitution: "The Judicial Power shall extend .
.
to
all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers
and Consuls." "In all Cases affecting Ambassadors,
other public Ministers and Consuls . . . the supreme
Court shall have original jurisdiction"; and also the
Judicial Code, (Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231) § 256,
"The jurisdiction vested in the courts of the United States
in the cases and proceedings hereinafter mentioned, shall
be exclusive of the courts of the several States, . .

POPOVICI v. AGLER.
379

Opinion of the Court.

Eighth. Of all suits and proceedings against ambassadors,
or other public ministers, or their domestics, or domestic
servants, or against consuls or vice-consuls." To this
may be added § 24 giving to the District Court original
jurisdiction " Eighteenth. Of all suits against consuls and
vice-consuls "; the Supreme Court, by § 233, being given
" exclusively all such jurisdiction *of suits and proceedings against ambassadors or other public ministers, or
their domestics or domestic servants, as a court of law can
have consistently with the law of nations."
The language so far as it affects the present case is
pretty sweeping but like all language it has to be interpreted in the light of the tacit assumptions upon which
it is reasonable to suppose that the language was used.
It has been understood that, "the whole subject of the
domestic relations of husband and wife, parent and child,
belongs to the laws of the States and not to the laws of
the United States," Ex parte Burrus, 136 U. S.586, 593,
594, and the jurisdiction of the Courts of the United
States over divorces and alimony always has been denied.
Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582. Simms v. Simmns, 175 U.
S.162, 167. De La Rama v. De La Raina, 201 U. S.303,
307. A suit foe" divorce between the present parties
brought in the District Court of the United States was
dismissed. Popovici v. Popovici, 30 Fed. (2d) 185.
The words quoted from the Constitution do not of themselves and without more exclude the jurisdiction of the
State. Plaquemines Tropical Fruit Co. v. Henderson, 170
U. S.511. The statutes do not purport to exclude the State
Courts from jurisdiction except where they grant it to
Courts of the United States. Therefore they do not affect
the present case if it be true as has been unquestioned for.
three-quarters of a century that the Courts of the United
States have no jurisdiction over divorce. If when the
Constitution was adopted the common understanding

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S

was that the domestic relations of husband and wife and
parent and child were matters reserved to the States, there
is no difficulty in construing the instrument. accordingly
and not much in dealing with the statutes. 'Suits against
consuls and vice-consuls' must be taken to refer to ordinary civil procecdings and not to include what formerly
would have belonged to the ecclesiastical Courts.
It is true that there may be objections of policy to one
of our States intermeddling with the domestic relations
of an official and subject of a foreign power that conceivably might regard jurisdiction as determined by nationality and not by domicil. But on the other hand if, as
seems likely, the wife was an American citizen, probably
she remained one notwithstanding her marriage. Act of
September 22, 1922, c. 411, § 3; 42 Stat. 1021, 1022. Her
position certainly is not less to be considered than her
husband's, and at all events these considerations are not
for us.
In the absence of any prohibition in the Constitution
or laws of the United States it is for the State to decide
how far it will go.
Judgment affirmed.
CLARKE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. HABERLE CRYSTAL SPRINGS BREWING
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 68. Argued January 9, 1930.-Decided January 27, 1930.
1. Under § 234 (a) (7) of the Revenue Act of 1918, which provides
that in computing the net income of corporations there shall be
allowed as a deduction " a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion,
wear and tear of property used in the trade or business, including
a reasonable allowance for obsolescence," a brewing company is
not entitled to a deduction for the fiscal year ending May 31, 1919,

