OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

See also, Pheasant v. Director General of Railroads,
285 Fed. 342, 344; Cincinnati, N. 0. & T. P. R. Co. v.
Swann's Admx., 160 Ky. 458, 469.
There is nothing in the record to show that employees
engaged in the switching operation knew or had reason
to believe that Mihas was in any position of danger. In
the absence of such knowledge or ground for belief, they
were not required to warn him of the impending switching
operation or take other steps to protect him. Toledo,
St. L. & IV.R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165, 173.
The evidence failing to show negligence on the part
of the company, the motion for a directed verdict in
favor of the petitioner should have been granted.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

WICK v. CHELAN ELECTRIC COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 29.

Argued November 1, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.,

1. Upon review of a decision of a state supreme court sustaining a
• service by publication on-a non-resident land-owner in a condemnation case as conformable to a state statute, and rejecting the
land-owner's contention that the period of time between service
and the return day was too brief to satisfy the demands of due
process under the Fourteenth Amendment, this Court accepts as
binding upon it the state court's construction of the statute with
respect to the time as of which service is complete and as to the
manner of fixing the return day. P. 110.
2. Eighteen days between service by publication and the return
day held sufficient time under the due process clause, as applied to
a non-resident defendafit in a suit to condemn land. Id.
3. Description of property in petition in condemnation proceedings
held adequate under the due process clause. P. 1U1.
4. Where the validity of a state statute is challenged on the ground
of its being repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth

WICK v. CHELAN ELECTRIC CO.
108

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment, but the contentions of appellant are unsubstantial,
this Court is without jurisdiction to entertain an appeal from the
state court. P. 111.
Appeal from 145 Wash. 129, 148 Wash. 479, dismissed.

from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Washington upholding the constitutionality of a statute
providing for service by publication upon non-resident
owners of land in condemnation proceedings.
* APPEAL

Messrs. Joseph D. Sullivan and Adrien W. Vollmer for
appellant.
Mr. Edwin C. Matthias, with whom Messrs. F. G.
Dorety, Thomas Balmer, Charles S. Albert, and Frank T.
Post were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellee, a public utility coiporation organized under
the laws of Washington, was empowered to acquire by
eminent domain the right to use the water of Lake Chelan
for the generation of electricity for public use, and to that
end was authorized to impound and raise the water to
1100 feet above mean sealevel. Appellant, a resident and
citizen of Pennsylvania, owns shore land a part of which
is overflowed by the water so raised. Appellee instituted
condemnation proceedings in the Superior Court of
Chelan County. The petition showed that the purpose
was to acquire the right so to raise the water and inundate
appellant's land. Notice was published as required. And
later appellee filed a bill of particulars describing by metes
and bounds the land to be condemned. The court found
the taking to be in the public interest, fixed compensation
for appellant and by its decree appropriated to the use of
appellee the right in perpetuity to overflow such land.
The judgment was affirmed in the highest court of the

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

State.' 145 Wash. 129. 148 Wash. 479. Appellant seeks
review under § 237(a) of the Judicial Code. U. S. a2, Tit.
28, § 344(a).
Under the laws of Washington (Remington's Compiled
Statutes, 1922, § 921 et seq.) condemnation proceedings
are instituted by the presentation of a petition to the
superior court of the county in which is located the property proposed to be taken. Notice is required to be given
to those interested as owners or otherwise. § 922. The
substance of the provision here attacked follows. "In all
cases where the owner . . . is a nonresident of this
state . . . service [of the noticeJ may be made by

publication thereof in*any newspaper published in the
colinty where such lands are situated, once a week for two
successive weeks . . . And such publication shall be
deemed service upon each such nonresident
..

September 22, 1926, appellee filed a notice that its petitiQr. for condemnatiori would be presented to the court
O4tober 1.1. A notice to that effect was published in a
.newspaper of the county on September 23, September 30
and October 7. Appellant appeared specially, objected to
the jurisdiction of the court, moved to quash the service
and challenged the validity of the statute on the ground
of its being repugnant to the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
She says that the service was not complete until two
veeks after the first publication and, relying on Roller v.
Holly, 176 U. S. 398, insists that the time allowed is not
sufficient. But the supreme court distinguished the
Texas statute considered in that case from that of Washington now before us, construed the latter not to require
publication for successive weeks and not to prescribe the
period of time required to elapse between the giving of
the notice and the return day, held that the first publication constituted service and that the intervening eighteen
days was sufficient. That court's construction of the state

HERBRING v. LEE.
Syllabus.

108

statute is authoritative. No discussion is required to.show
that the time so allowed is reasonable. There is no
ground on which it may be contended that the statute as
construed is repugnant to the due process clause. Huling
v. Kaw Valley R. & I. Co., 130 U. S. 559, 563. Bellingham
Bay & B. C. R. Co. v. New Whatcom, 172 U. S. 314, 319.
Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, 254, 262. Goodrich v.
Ferris, 214 U. S. 71, dismissing an appeal from the Circuit
Court of Appeals (145 Fed. 844) for lack of jurisdiction.
And appellant asserts that as construed in this case the
provision of § 922 requiring that the petition shall contain a description of the property proposed to be taken is
also repugnant to the due process clause. But mere inspection of the petition shows that the point is utterly
devoid of merit.
No attempt was made below to draw in question the
validity of any other provision of the state statutes. And,
as appellant's contentions above referred to are- unsubstantial, this court is without jurisdiction. Goodrich v.
Ferris, supra, 79. Trenton v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 182,
192. Newark v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 192, 196. Campbell v. Olney, 262 U. S. 352, 354.
Appeal dismissed.
HERBRING v. LEE, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER
OF OREGON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.

No. 17.

Argued October 23, 24, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. The Oregon law (2 Ore. L. Tit. 36, § 6388), requiring each foreign
fire insurance company to do its local business through licensed
local agents; restricting the number of agents that may be appointed by a company in any city, and providing that, as a condition precedent to appointment of an additional agent in a city
the company shall apply to the Insurance Commiss'oner and pay
an annual license fee of $500P is a regulation of. the corporation

