OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
280 U. S.

Syllabus.

But as the Court, without dealing with this aspect of
the matter, has held that the railway company is not
so bound, it' is unnecessary to decide that the state railroad commission's rcfusal to raise the rate would have
been enough to abrogate the contract, if there had been
one, and the practice of the Court not to pass on questions of constitutional or state law not necessary to a decision should, I think, be scrupulously observed. Even
if necessary to decide the question, I would not, be prepared to say that the refusal of the commission to fix a
fare different from the contract rate would destroy the
contract. By contracting for a five-cent fare, the railway
company waived the protection of the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Columbus Ry. Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399; Southern Iowa Electric Co. v.
Chariton, 255 U. S. 539, 542; Paducah v. Paducah Ry.
Co., 261 U. S. 267, 272; Georgia Ry. Co. v. Decatur, 262
U. S. 432, 438; Henderson Water Co. v. CorporationCommission, 269 U. S. 278, 281. Granting that the contract
was subject to the power and duty of the commission to
modify it by changing the rate, that power has not been
exercised and the duty is one arising, not under the Constitution.and laws of the United States, but is imposed
by state statute, for breach of which a state remfedy alone
should be given. See Henderson Water Co. v. Corporation Commission, supra, 282 (compare Corporation Commission v. Henderson Water Co., 190 N. C. 70).
EX PARTE HOBBS, COMMISSIONER OF INSURANCE OF THE STATE OF KANSAS,

ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 20, Original. Argued November 25, 26, 1929.-Decided Decem-

ber 9,1929.
A fire insurance company sued to enjo*n state officers from enforcing an order fixing its rates, and from revoking its license for
failure to obey the same, alleging diversity of citizenship and

EX PARTE HOBBS.
168

Counsel for Parties.

that the order, and certain state.statutes if construed to sanction
it, were violative of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The bill prayed for an interlocutory injunction on
these grounds, but the plaintiff without pressing them applied for
and obtained an interlocutory injunction enjoining the revocation
of license only and based on the ground that such revocation would
not be authorized by the state statutes, considering them as valid.
Defendants applied to this Court for a mandamus to compel the
District Judge to call to his assistance two other judges under
Jud..Code § 266, U. S. C., Title 2S, § 380, to determine the prayers
for interlocutory and final injunction as made in the bill. Held:
1. That the scope of the judge's decision was to be determined by
the words of his order, which accorded with the statement of his
intention in granting it contained in his return to the order to
show cause. P. 172.
2. That the decision, as so explained, being based only on a construction of the state statutes, three judges were not required by Jud.
Code § 266 for its rendition, and, as there was jurisdiction by
diversity of citizenship, appeal lay to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Id.
3. The fact that the bill raised the constitutional issue did not empower the defendants to force a decision of it or prevent the plaintiff from limiting to the narrower ground its claim to interlocutory
relief. Id.

PETITION for a writ of mandamus to require the Honorable John C. Pollock, District Judge, to call to his assistance two other judges to determine the prayers for interlocutory and final injunctions in the suit of the Agricultural Insurance Company, and other like suits, pending
in his district against the Insurance Commissioner and
the Attorney General of Kansas. The matter was heard
upon the petition and the return made by the respondent
to a rule to show cause. The rule is discharged and mandamus denied.
Mr. John G. Egan, Assistant Attorney General of
Kansas, with whom Messrs. Wm. A. Smith, Attorney
General, John F. Rhodes, Assistant Attorney General,
and Wm. C. Ralston were on the brief, for petitioners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

Mr. Robert J. Folonie, with whom Messrs. Robert
Stone and James A. McClure were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a petition for a writ of mandamus directing
Judge Pollock, of the District Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas. to call to his assistance two
other Judges under § 266 of the Judicial Code as amended,
(U. S. Code, Title 2S, § 380,) to determine the prayer
for interlocutory and final injunctions against the petitioners in certain suits. An order to show cause was
issued and the Judge has made a return. We are of opinion that the writ must be denied upon the incontrovertible
portions of the return, and therefore need to consider
nothing else.
One hundred and fifty stock fire insurance companies
doing business in Kansas have bills in equity, of which
the bill considered in this case is a type, pending in the
District Court of the United States for ihe District of
Kansas. These bills allege diversity of 'citizenship and
also that the defendant Commissioner of Insurance, one
of the present petitioners, has made an order affecting
the rates to be charged for the issue of policies of fire
insurance that is confiscatory and contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, but that if not obeyed he will enforce by revoking the plaintiffs' licenses to do business in
Kansas. The bills also allege that the statutes of Kansas
as construed to authorize the order are unconstitutional
lile it and for the same reason. The bills pray for a
restraining order ad interim, an interlocutory injunction
after a hearing before three Judges, and a permanent
injunction by final decree.
On April 3, 1928, the parties appeared before the present respondent, and on his suggestion the defendants,
the present petitioners, agreed to take no action that

EX PARTE HOBBS.
168

Opinion of the Court.

would be subject to restraint by a. temporary restraining
order, without first giving notice of intention to do so in
ample time for the plaintiff to resort to the Court. An
order embodying the agreement and stating that the
Court therefore refrained from entering any temporary
restraining order was entered at that date, and remained
in force for over a year. Shortly after the entry the petitioners presented to the Judge a motion to dismiss the
suit, on the ground that the matter was res judicata by
reason of certain proceedings in the State Court, and also
for want of equity, which after argument was overruled.
On May 10, 1929, the case was referred to a Master to
make findings of'fact and conclusions of law concerning
the issues in the case. This was upon motion of the
plaintiff made on May 4. On May 6 the defendants, the
petitioners, notified the plaintiff that they would proceed to enforce the rate order on and after May 20, 1929,
and on May 7 filed a motion for a hearing before three
Judges, on the plaintiff's application for an interlocutory
injunction. This came up on May 10 along with the
plaintiff's motion to refer to a Master. The plaintiff
"definitely stated that it did not intend to press its prayer
contained in its bill of complaint "; meaning thereby its
prayer for an interlocutory injunction based upon the
asserted uncoxstitutionality of the Statute and rate orders,
and the Judge said that the defendants' motion did not
pertain to any matter before 'the Court, and intimated
that he was ready to grant a restiaining order.. A few
days later the plaintiff moved for an interlocutory injunction against the cancellatiofi of the licenses of the plaintiff and its agents. The defendants objected and asked
the Judge to call in two others. This the Judge declined
to do and issued an order restraining the defendants from
cancelling licenses because of supposed violations of the
rate order in question. The defendants treat this as satisfying the prayers of the bill and requiring three Judges
to be within the jurisdiction of the Court to grant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

The Judge knows at least what he intended and sup-

posed himself to do. He states that it appeared to him
that the only question before him was the construction of
the rate-making statute of Kansas, the plaintiff conceding
its constitutionality for the purposes of the motion. He
construed the act as not warranting a revocation of
licenses for violation of the rate order or for anything that
the plaintiff appeared to have done, and says that the injunction granted by him was not granted upon the grouned
of the unconstitutionality of the statute butrestrained
only something that by his construction the statute did
not allow. We see no reason why the injunction should
be held to go further than the Judge says that lie intended
it to go, or than its express words, or why those words
should not be explained as a construction of the statute
rather than an adjudication that it is void. But if the injunction is taken as we say that it should be, it is not within
Judicial Code, § 266; three Judges were not necessary.
and the petitioners have no right to come here. Ex parte
Buder, 271 U. S. 461. Moore v. Fidelity & Deposit Co.,
272 U. S. 317. Smith v. TVilson, 273 U. S. 388. On the
other hand as there was jurisdiction of the cases by reason
of diversity of citizenship, as well as on the constitutional
ground, an appeal lay to the Circuit Court of Appeals if
the petitioner thought the Judge's construction wrong.
The Judge was clearly right in treating the plaintiffs in
the several cases as masters to decide what they would
ask and in denying to the defendants, the petitioners, the
power to force upon the plaintiffs a constitutional issue
which at that moment they did not care to raise. The
fact that the bills raised it did not prevent them from
presenting a narrower claim and contenting themselv'es
with the granting of that. Other serious difficulties in
the way of the petition are set up in the return, but we
think that the foregoing answer makes further argument
unnecessary.
Rule to show "causedischarged.
Mandamus denied.

