406

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Counsel for Parties.

280 U. S.

DAVIS, FEDERAL AGENT, ET AL. v. PRESTON,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 188.

Argued January 23, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.

1. One who, as Federal Agent, suffered judgment in an action under
the Employers' Liability Act for death of a railroad employee oc-

curring during federal control, ceased to be liable and was without
standing to invoke a review of the judgment when he ceased to be
Federal Agent. P. 407.
2. When, in such a case, a writ of certiorari to a state supreme court
was petitioned for by both the retired Federal Agent and the surety
on his appeal bonds below, who had been adjudged to pay costs,
and the certiorari was granted, held:
(1) That the writ must be dismissed as to the main petitioner.
P. 408.
(2) That the adjudication of liability for costs, which had not
been made a ground of complaint, did not enable the surety to
complain of the judgment in other particulars. Id.
. (3) That the Federal Agent's successor in office could not be
substituted in this court upon motion made after the statutory time
within which he might have invoked a review of the judgment by
certiorari had expired. Id.
3. The provisions relating to substitution, which were added to ยง 206
of the Transportation Act by Act of March 3, 1923, do not enable
a former Federal Agent to invoke a review by this Court of a
'judgment which is of no legal concern to him, nor do they modify
or enlarge the statutory period for invoking the reviewing powers
of this Court. Id.
Certiorari to 118 Tex. 303, dismissed.
CERTIORART, post, p. 539, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Texas affirming a judgment against the
Federal Agent in an action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.

Mr. W. L. Cook, with whom Mr. Sidney F. Andrews
was on the brief, for petitioners.

DAVIS v. PRESTON.
406

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert L. Cole, with whom Mr. James W. Wayman was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAw DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This proceeding relates to an action brought in a state
court of Texas to recover for the death of a railroad employee occurring during federal control,-while the railroad was being operated by the Director General. The
action was begun by the deceased's widow, in her personal right, against Walker D. Hines, as Director General;
but by amendments and substitutions the action came to
be one prosecuted under the Federal Employers' Act of
1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, by the widow, as administratrix
of the deceased's estate, against James C. Davis, as Federal Agent. Judgment went against the latter, and on
successive appeals there was an affirmance by the Court
of Civil Appeals and the Supreme Court of the State.
The final affirmance included a provision adjudging the
corporate surety on the. appeal bond jointly liable with
Davis, as Federal Agent, for the costs in the two appellate courts.
Within the allotted three months Davis, describing himself as Federal Agent, and the surety company petitioned
this Court for a review on certiorari, and the petition was
granted.
It now appears that when the petition was presented
Davis had ceased to be Federal Agent and had been suc
ceeded in that office by Andrew W.' Mellon,-thereby
making. the judgment unenforceable against Davis and
possible of satisfaction only ,after the substitution of. his
successor, Mellon. Therefore Davis was not. then in -a
position to complain of the judgment or to invoke a review of it by this Court. All right and discretion to do
either had passed to his successor in office. Florida ex

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S.

rel. Wailes v. Croom, 226 U. S. 309; Taylor v. Savage,
1 How. 282, 286; Dolan v. Jennings, 139 U. S. 385, 387;
McClane v. Boon, 6 Wall. 244.
It follows that the writ of certiorari granted on the
petition of Davis was improvidently allowed and must be
dismissed. The fact that the surety company joined in
the petition can not alter the result. While the company
was adjudged liable for the costs in the two appellate
courts, that feature of the judgment of affirmance is not
made a ground of complaint. Nor does it enable the
company to complain of the judgment in other particulars.
Smith v. Indiana, 191 U. S. 138, 149-150.
A motion is now made by Andrew W. Mellon, as Federal Agent, for his substitution in the present proceeding
in the place of Davis. But the motion must be denied.
The succession in office, as now appears, occurred before
there was any effort to obtain a review in this Court.
After the succession Davis was completely separated from
the office and without right to invoke such a review or
exercise any authority or discretion in that regard.
Therefore his petition must be disregarded. The time
within which such a review may be invoked is limited by
statute and that time has long since expired. To grant
the motion in these circumstances would be to put aside
the statutory limitation and to subject the party prevailing in the state court to uncertainty and vexation which
the limitation is intended to prevent.
The provisions relating to substitution which were
added to. section 206 of the Transportation Act of 1920
by the act of March 3, 1923, c. 233, 42 Stat. 1443, are
cited in support of the motion. But, even when they are
liberally construed, as they probably should be, they disclose no purpose either (a) to enable a former Federal
Agent to invoke a review by this Court of a judgment
which is of no legal concern to him, or (b) to modify or

COOPER v. UNITED STATES.
406

Counsel for Parties.

enlarge the prescribed statutory period for invoking the
reviewing power of this Court.
Motion for Substitution denied.
Writ of Certioraridismissed.
COOPER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 93. Argued January 15, 1930.-Decided February 24, 1930.
The Revenue Act of November 23, 1921, effective from the beginning of that calendar year, provides, ยง 202 (a) (2), that, in
ascertaining the gain from a sale of property acquired after
February 28, 1913, the basis shall be the cost, and that in case
of property acquired by gift after December 31, 1920, "the basis
shall be the same as that which it would have in the hands of
the donor or the last preceding owner by whom it was not acquired by gift." In November, 1921, A gave to B shares which
A had bought in 1918 and which had increased in value. B sold
them at that increased value within a week and was taxed on the
basis of the difference between the price paid by A and the price
received by B. Held:
1. The statute intends to reach the transaction retroactively.
P. 411.
2. As so applied it is not invalid under the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment. Id.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 537, to review a judgment of the
Court of Claims rejecting a claim for recovery of money
exacted as an income tax.

Mr. Wayne Johnson for petitioner.
Solicitor General Hughes, with whom Assistant Attor-

neys General Youngquist and Galloway, Messrs. Sewall
Key, J. Louis Monarch, and John Vaughan Groner, Spe-

