OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Syllabus.

280 U. S.

Frothinghamv. Mellon, Sec'y of the Treasury, 262 U. S.
447, 487, 488,, announces the applicable doctrine.
"The administration of any statute, likely to produce
additional taxation to be imposed upon a vast number of
taxpayers, the extent of whose several liability- is indefinite and constantly changing, is essentially, a matter
of public and not, of indi-idual concern."
The federal courts have no power per se to review and
annul acts of state legislatures upon the ground that they
conflict with the federal or. state constitutions. "That
question may be considered only whenr'the justification
for some direct injury suffered or threatened, presenting
a justiciable issue, is made to rest upon. such an act."
The decree below is
Affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

and

are -of opinion that the appel-

lants' status is such as entitles them to test the validity
of the California statutes in "question; that these statutes
do not exact tolls for the use of highways within the
meaning of the limitation contained in fthe Federal HighWay acts, and are not subject to the other objections
urged• against them; and that for these reasons the decree below should be affirmed.

BEKINS VAN LINES, INCORPORATED,

ET AL. V.

RILEY, STATE CONTROLLER OF CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN

No. 13.

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued. April 18, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

A state law which, in the taxation- of carriers of freight by motor
vehicle using the public highways, distinguishes between 1 those
common carriers who operate over regular routes between fixed
termini and other carriers, common and private, does not deprive

BEKINS VAN LINES v. RILEY.

81

Opinion of the Court.

80

the first mentioned class of equal protection in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, even if the tax upon it be more burdensome than that upon the others, since it can pot be: said that the
classification lacks any reasonable basis. So held in view (1) of
the differences between common and private carriers, and (2)
of the probability that common carriers operating regularly between fixed termini cause greater wear to the public highways
and greater danger to the public thereon. P. 82.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court (three
judges) dismissing a bill to enjoin the State Controller
from enforcing a tax on the appellants' gross receipts from
transportation of freight on public highways in motor
vehicles.
Mr. Samuel T. Bush, with whom Mr. William Sea, Jr.,
was on the brief, for appellants.'
Mr. Frank L. Guerena, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellee.
Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS,
announced by the CHIEF JUSTICE.
Appellants, as common carriers, are engaged in transporting freight, by motor vehicles for hire along public
highways between fixed termini and over regular routes
within California. The 1926 Amendment to the Constitution and the statutes of that State lay upon such carriers a tax of 5% of their gross receipts in lieu of all other
taxes, while other freight carriers, common and private,
by motor vehicles, are subjected to different and, it is
alleged, less burdensome taxation. Cal. Const., Art. 13,
§ 15; March 5, 1927, Chap. 19, 1927 Cal. Stats.
By this proceeding, instituted July 21, 1928, appellants
ask that the constitutional amendment and the statute
81325*°-30--

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1929.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S,

which undertake to lay such tax upon them be declared
discriminatory and in conflict with § 1, of the Fourteenth
Amendment; also that an injunction issue against the
State Controller forbidding him from attempting to enforce payment.
Upon motion, without written opinion, the District
Court-three judges sitting-dismissed the bill. The
cause is here by direct appeal; and the only matter for our
determination is the validity of the challenged classification.
The power of a State in respect of classification has
ofteni been declared by opinions here. We are unable to
say that there weas no reasonable basis for the one under
consideration; the court below reached the proper result;
and its decree must be affirmed.
Appellants voluntarily assumed, the position of common
carriers operating between fixed termini and enjoy all consequent benefits. That a marked distinction exists between common and private carriers by auto vehicles
appears from Frost v. Railroad Commission, 271 U. S.
583 and Michigan Public Utilities Commission v. Duke,
266 U. S. 570. Sufficient reasons for placing common carrier% operating as appellants do, in a special class are
pointed out by Raymond v. Holm, 165 Minn. 215; State v.
Le Febvre, 174 Minn. 248; Iowa Motor Vehicle Assn. v.
Board of Railroad Commissioners, 207 Iowa 461; Liberty,
Highway Co. v. Michigan Public Utilities Commission,
294 Fed. 703. Their use of the highways probably will be
regular and frequent and, therefore, unusually destructive
thereto. Also it will expose the public to dangers exceeding those consequent upon the occasional movements of
other carriers.
Although relied upon by counsel and said to be almost
identical with the case at bar, Quaker. City Cab Co. v.
Pennsylvania,277 U. S. 389, gives no support to claim of

SAFE DEPOSIT & T. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
80

83

Syllabus.

undue discrimination. We regard the controversy as not
open to serious doubt and further discussion of it seems
unnecessary.

Affirmed.
SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST COMPANY OF BALTIMORE v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SPECIAL COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.
No. 20.

Argued October 24, 1929.-Decided November 25, 1929.

1. Cause held properly here on appeal; certiorari denied. P. 89.
2. A statute of a State which undertakes to tax things wholly beyond
her jurisdiction or control conflicts with the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 92.
3. Mobilia sequuntur personam is a fiction intended for convenience,
not controlling where justice does not demand it, and not to be
applied if the result would be a patent and inescapable, injustice
through double taxation, or otherwise. Pp. 92, 93.
4. Intangibles, such as stocks and bonds, in the hands of the holder
of the legal title, with definite taxable situs at that owner's residence not subject to be changed by the equitable owner, may not
be taxed at the latter's domicile in another State. P. 93.
5. A citizen of Virginia transferred a fund of etocks and bonds to a
Maryland Trust Company in trust for his two minor sons. The
trustee was empowered to change the investments and was to
accumulate the income, first paying taxes and its own commissions, and, as each son attained the age of twenty-five years, was
to pay him one-half of the principal with the income accumulated
thereon. If either son died before receiving his share, his share was
to be paid over to his children, if he left any; otherwise it was to be
added to that of the surviving son and held for his use and benefit
in the same manner as the original share of that son was held.
The deed made no provilsion for the event of death of both sons
under twenty-five without issue. The donor reserved to himself
a power of revocation but died in Virginia without exercising it.
The Trust Company continued to hold the origina- securities in
Baltimore, Maryland, and paid the taxes regularly demanded by
that City and State on account of them. Administration of the

